THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: CQOK^I A % ( Theodore icis ) Classmark y. * ... . * -Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21530348_0003M‘ LACAN 8. CUMI IOiUTH, EDIN? SOME SWEETS 1. Oyster Patties. 2. Jam Fritters 3. Rissoles 4. Rolled Pancakes, with Jam and Broken Sugar. and SAVOURIES. 5. Pancakes, Plain, with Lemon and Broken Sugar. 6. Sweet Omelette. 7. Savory Omelette 8. Ramakins.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF A Complete Dictionary of all pertaining to the Art of Cookery and Table Service. ILLUSTRATED with COLOURED PLATES and ENGRAVINGS, by HAROLD FURNISS, GEORGE CRUIKS HANK, IV. MUNN ANDREW, and others. EDITED BY THEODORE FRANCIS GARRETT, Author of “The Chef's Memoranda,'' “Plain and Artistic Cookery“Little-known Foods," “ Ice and Ice-Making! “The Manufacture of British Wines, tPc.,’’ “ Ball Suppers and their Service“ Wine Adulteration,” “Savoury Suppers,” “ Muffins and Crumpetsu Sandwiches," “ American Drinks,” “Confectionery“ Notes on Curries “Loving-Cups,” "Antiquity of Cheese,” “Good Coffee,” “Lives of Famous Cooks',' and numerous other Serial and Special Papers in Technical and Domestic Publications. Assisted by WILLIAM A. RAWSON (Cook and Confectioner to Messrs. Ring and Brymer, Caterers for City of London and other Banquets ; Sec. of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners); And, in Special Departments, by the following and other distinguished CHEFS DE CUISINE and CONFECTIONERS: C. J. Corblet, Chef de Cuisine, Bute House, W.; Grand Diploma of Honour; ist Grand Prize, 1887 ; 1st Gold Medal of ist Class, 1885. J. Detraz, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole, London. J. Fiorillo, Chef de Cuisine, late of Hotel Victoria, London ; Grand Prix d’Honneur, Paris, 1889 , ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1885 ; Champion Silver Medal. 1885 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1888 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1889. G. Heywood, Chef de Cuisine, and President of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners. C. Norwak, Confectioner, Gold and Silver Medallist in Sugar-Flowers and Piping, London, 1889. L. Lecomte, Chef de Cuisine to Lord Harewood ; Silver Medal,ExpositionCulinaire Internationale, London, 1885; Diploma of Honour, Grand Prize, and Gold Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1887. C. Reichert, Confectioner to Messrs. W. and G. Buszard. A. Thoumire, Chef de Cuisine to Sir Julian Goldsmid ; Silver Medal for Turtle Dinner of 13 Dishes, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1889 ; Bronze Medal for Menu Design, 1889 ; and Vermillion Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire, 1887. T. Wallace, Chef de Cuisine, Great Eastern Hotel, London. C. WiLLlN, Chef de Cuisine, late of the Grand Hotel ■ Bristol ; ist Prize in Open Turtle Competition. Division III.—Cro to Gri. Sole Agent LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL. A. W. COWAN, 30 and 31, NEW BRIDGE STREET, LONDON, E.C.LONDON : A. BRADLEY, LONDON AND COUNTY PRINTING WORKS, DRURY LANE, W.C. UNlVERSin library LEEDS rTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 481 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. CROUSTADES.—To define a Croustade would tax the ingenuity of the best of cooks, for it would seem that any dish having no title to anything better may revel in the term “ Croustade,” provided only that it is contained in a crust. The Croustade may be made of Bread (see Fig. 583. Bread Croustade. Fig. 583), or Paste (see Fig. 584) of any kind, and in any shape or device, some very noteworthy samples appearing under these two headings. Larousse describes Croustades as “ Patties with a crisp crust. The name is also extended to dishes in the preparation of which crusts of bread are Fig. 584. Paste Croustade. used.” As an example of the importance that some artistic cooks give to the name, a receipt is given below, founded upon one advocated by Jules Gouffe. Paste Croustades a la Financiere.—Rub 41b. of butter into Jib. of flour, and when quite smooth add 1 saltspoonful of salt and the yolks of two eggs, work in sufficient water to make a softish paste, roll it up in a lump, put it in a cloth, and let it stand for a time on ice; line a dozen small Croustade-moulds with the rollecl-out paste, and fill them up with flour to keep the paste in position whilst baking; bake them till the paste is a light brown and crisp; then turn out the flour, brush the insides with egg-, and set the Croustades in the oven for two or three minutes. Clean and prepare some cocks’ combs, cocks’ kernels, mushrooms, foie gras, collops of fowl, and sliced truffles, cut all into dice, put them with some chicken forcemeat into a stewpan, and boil them in 1 quart of Spanish sauce, stirring till it coats the spoon; fill the Croustades with this mixture. At the time of making the Croustades some covers should have been made for them with the paste; it should be rolled out to Jin. in thickness, then from that twelve rounds should be cut out with a 2in. fluted cutter, and another twelve rounds with a lin. fluted cutter. Put the smaller rounds on the top in the centre of the larger ones, brush them over with egg, also egg the tops of the large ones before putting the smaller ones on, to make them stick ; put them on a wet baking-sheet and bake in a brisk oven. Cover the tops of the Croustades with them. CROUTE-AU-FOT. — A better name for this in English would be “ pot-luck.” It is nothing more than a clear soup made of almost anything handy, with crusts of toasted bread floating about in it. Amongst the lower orders of France Croute-au-pot is very general, and is little better than a weak broth; but it is capable of better things, as shown by the following receipts: (1) Cut into round slices two carrots and one turnip, and add to these a few short pieces of celery stalks and a small quantity of chopped white cabbage. Stew these for a few minutes in a covered stewpan with 1 piled table-spoonful of butter. Just as the vegetables are beginning to take colour pour over them 3 pints of broth, adding J table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Boil this slowly for half-an-hour or more, and then pour it into a hot tureen, in which a few pieces of toasted bread or rolls have been previously placed. Serve very hot. (2) Procure about 41b. of leg or shin of beef, cut it into pieces, and put it into a stockpot, with 6qts. of water, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, a few slices of bacon, or a ham bone or rind of bacon. Put the pot on the fire, let it boil up, then skim it carefully, and set it back to simmer. After this has been cooking for about an-hour-and-a-half, add a knuckle of veal, an old fowl, and some vegetables, such as two carrots, one turnip, a head of celery, an onion coloured in the oven, cloves, and peppercorns. A small cabbage may also be added, or three or four lettuces tied together. In the course of an hour add any other piece of roasted meat or bones, or any other scraps. Continue the simmering for three hours longer, then take out the vegetables, chop them into pieces, lay them in a tureen, with some slices of bread, toasted and buttered. Strain the broth through a napkin on to the vegetables and crusts, and serve very hot. CROUTONS.—The literal meaning of this French culinary term is given as “ little crusts,” or sippets, such as fried dice of toast served with soups, or tri- angular and other shapes used for garnishing minces and hashes. The advance of artistic cookery has caused the name to be extended to large shapes of bread cut Fig. 585. Crouton of Fried Bread. out of a loaf and fried brown outside (see Fig. 585), for supporting roasted birds when served in twos or fours. These Croutons are gummed to the dish with glaze, or some other adhesive material, and then can be used to prop up the birds, or other things, in any position likely to contribute elegance to the dish. Crou- tons of aspic jelly (see Fig. 586) are made in almost any shape, and the term is also extended to pieces of cake or pastry. Croutons for garnishing or soup are prepared thus: For Garnishing.—Cut some slices Jin. thick off a tinned- loaf, and cut out from these, with an ordinary paste-cutter or a sharp knife, crescents, squares, lozenges, oblongs, ovals, rounds, stars, or any other shape desired; fry these in boiling fat, using butter for preference. The frying-basket gives a 2 R482 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Crotitons—continued. more even colour, but the frying-pan, with plenty of fat. butter, or oil, may be used if more convenient. Drain on a cloth or paper before using. Fig. 586. CRObTONS of Aspic Jelly. For Soups.—Cut the slices of bread £in. thick, and then into dice. Fry them as before, drain, and serve in a deep plate, or silver-covered dish. CEOWBERBIES (Fr. Camarines). — Small black berry-like fruit, sometimes called Crakeberry, containing about half-a-dozen stones. They grow on a small shrub (1Hm/petrum nigrum) in most of the northern parts of the world. The plant is very hardy, standing cold, bleak atmospheres even better than the common heath. The berries are slightly acid, and are sought for greedily by children in the extreme north of Scotland; the Russian peasantry also eat them, but they are not generally considered as of much value for food. In Kamtchatka they are used in great quantities to boil with fish, and form also an ingredient in some Kamtchatkan puddings. CROWDY-This is sometimes spelled “ Crowdie,” the latter being peiliaps a more modern version of the original Scotch term. It is described as a thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water, a food of the porridge kind; but here again modern innovations have evolved the following variety: Into 2qts. of the cold skimmed liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled stir ^ pint of medium oatmeal, two partly-cooked onions chopped fine, and pepper and salt to taste. The oatmeal should be first worked into a smooth paste with some of the mutton liquor. Let this boil up for twenty minutes or more, stirring freely, and serve with bread or toast sippets. CRUETS.—According to Webster this term is the diminutive of the old French crues, or cruies, flasks. As we know the meaning of the word, it is a set of small flasks, made to contain pepper, vinegar, oil, and mustard, some Cruet-stands being fitted with two or three extra bottles, in which cayenne pepper, sauces, or varieties of vinegar, such as tarragon or chilli, may be set on the table. Another name for Cruets is “ casters,” but this conveys the idea of a pepper-pot from which pepper is cast, or of a vessel from which very finely-powdered sugar, called “ caster ” sugar, may be distributed over viands or sweets; but the term does not apply to flasks that contain fluids. Fig. 587. Cruet-stand (Adams and Soil). Cruets—continued. A very useful Cruet-stand is shown in Fig. 587. and others for table-corners, containing mustard, pepper, and salt only, are much used at breakfasts, lunches, and large dinners; but since the advance of cookery, in houses where experienced cooks are employed the Cruet-stand or frame should be delegated to the kitchen, seasoning being left to the cook, that is if he knows his business. A very excellent adaptation and association of the various flavourings and condiments found in Cruets has been brought to light and introduced to cooks under the name of “ Crueteen.” It contains some proportion of spices which are too often disregarded by “ plain cooks.” CRUET SAUCE.—The British name for Vinai- grette, a French sauce that is described under that heading. CRULLS.—This term isnot much used now ; it is evidently a corruption of tlieword “curls,” which exactly describes the article it is used to denote. Potato Crulls, or Krulls, are potatoes cut into curls. This is done by passing a fine corer or vegetable-cutter through the centre of the potatoes, and then, after peeling very evenly, cutting the potatoes round and round, permitting the point of the knife only just to enter the central holes cut out by the corer. The result will lie exceedingly pretty Curls or Krulls (see Fig. 588), which, when fried in plenty of boil- ing fat, make a very tasty garnish. CRULLERS.—These were originally a kind of sweet cake, cut in strips or curled anti twisted, from which peculiarity they derive their name—Crullers (sometimes spelled Krullers) or Curlers. They are then fried crisp in boiling fat. The following' receipts give a fine variety: (1) Bub 1 table-spoonful of butter into a little flour, add 1 teacupful of sugar, ^ saltspoonful of ground cinnamon or mace, £ saltspoonful of salt, and one* egg, the yolk and white beaten separately; work the ingredients well, adding sufficient flour to make them stiff. Boll the dough out Rn. in thickness, Fig. 589. American Crullers. cut it into oblong- pieces 2|in. by 3jin., or squares, then make five incisions lengthwise, cutting to within jin. at each end (see Fig. 589, a). Take up every other strip, fold each together slightly in the middle (see Fig. 589, b), and fry them in hot fat. (2) Mix 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking-powder in lib. of flour ; melt a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and beat it up with two eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 teacupful of milk, and 1 pinch of salt; pour this into the middle of the flour, and work it; knead the dough on the483 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c,, referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensi Crullers—continued. table, roll it out thinly, cut it up into long strips, and twist them. Melt some lard in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the Crullers till they are a pale brown. (3) Rub fib. of butter into some flour, add 1 teaspoon- ful of saleratus, 111b. of moist sugar, and spice to taste; beat ten eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it in with the dry ingredients, using' sufficient flour to form a soft dough, and make this into any shapes preferred, such as Fig. 590. English Ckui.lers. squares or hearts (see Pig. 590). Put some lard in a frying- pan, and when it is boiling fry the Crullers in it till they are a light brown. (4) Beat fib. each of butter and sugar to a cream, mix with them the beaten yolks of three eggs, then quickly beat in fib. of flour, 1 saltspoonful each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg, and enough cold milk to form a stiff paste; lastly, beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, stir them quickly and lightly into the paste, roll it out fin. thick, and cut the Crullers into shapes. After the Crullers are cut out, put them into plenty of smoking-liot fat to fry brown. Use them either hot or cold. (5) Sift together lqt. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Beat 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 breakfast- cupful of sugar to a cream, add to them one egg, and then quickly stir in the flour, and enough cold milk to make a paste stiff enough to roll out; cut the Crullers in any shapes preferred, fry them in plenty of fat, sift a little sugar over them, and serve. (6) Warm 2oz. of butter in a basin, then mix with it one egg and fib. of caster sugar, and beat the whole well together; then mix in gradually lib. of the finest sifted flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt, the same quantity of powdered cinnamon, and a little grated nutmeg. Work the mix- ture well for a few minutes, adding a few drops of any kind of flavouring essence preferred, such as almond, ratafia, vanilla, or lemon, then mix in gradually sufficient milk to make a thick batter. Put a good-sized lump of clarified fat or butter into a frying-pan, and place it over a brisk fire until hot. Divide the mixture into small pieces, and fry in the hot fat, turning them so as to brown equally. When cooked, drain the Crullers, allowing as much of the fat to run away as possible, then arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve. (7) Put 21b. of sifted flour into a pan, together with 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, a grated nutmeg, and fib. of powdered white sugar, and work them well together ; then cut Jib. of butter into small pieces, mix it into the flour and spices, and knead to a dough with six eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. If the eggs and rose-water are not sufficient to make a dough, a little cold water may be added. Work the dough well on a floured paste-board, then cut it into four or five pieces, knead each piece separately, put them all together again, and knead the dough again in one lump. Roll it out into a square sheet about Jin. thick, then with a knife or a jagging-iron cut it into long narrow slips, and twist them up into different shapes. Fry them immediately in boiling lard, turning care- fully with a small slice and fork. Fry both sides alike a pale brown. Spread them over a large dish to cool, and when cold dredge powdered white sugar over them. CRUMBS (Fr. Miettes ; Ger. Kriimchen; Ital. Bri- ciole; Sp. Migas).—By Crumbs we usually understand small particles of bread that are used in cookery for many purposes; they form an important ingredient in various puddings, and are very useful in forming, together with beaten egg, a covering or envelope for cutlets of different kinds of meat or fish intended for frying, or for rissoles, and many other things. To prepare bread- crumbs nicely, it is necessary that the bread should be at least one day old, and quite dry; the Crumb should then be cut in brick-shaped pieces and rubbed on a fine wire sieve turned upside down on a plate or dish. The Crumbs will fall through the sieve ready sifted on the plater It may be well to protect the hand from contact with the bread by twisting a clean cloth round it, glove fashion. The Crumbs may afterwards be browned in the oven, or before the fire, and if kept in a well-closed tin canister will keep for some time. Crackers and biscuits of all kinds may be made into Crumbs by pounding them in a mortar, or by breaking and rolling them fine with a rolling-pin. The word Crumb is derived from the Anglo-Saxon word cruma, which means a fragment. CRUMPETS.—The probable origin of this word is the Welsh crempog, a pancake or fritter. For some reason or another, probably becaiise they are in some degree similar, and yet differing greatly, it is customary to associate muffins with Crumpets, it being also a rare occurrence for either to appear at the table separately. Both are made of batter, both require re-cooking, and both are served hot and well buttered; yet there is so marked a difference between the two in flavour and constitution that most persons have a decided pre- ference for one or the other. In France tea-cakes, answering to Crumpets, are known as “ galettes.” Crumpets are very rarely made at home, especially in large towns, where they are hawked through the streets during the winter months, the reason for this being most likely the same as that given for not making bread at home—because it is so much less troublesome to buy these things ready made. But it is no exaggeration to say that home-made Crumpets (and muffins) are as different to those usually sold in the streets as home-made bread is to that manufactured by the unscrupulous baker. To bake Crumpets it is usual to use a hot plate, but this is not necessary. A greased baking-sheet in a hot oven answers very well; or the Crumpets may be cooked in a shallow frying-pan set over a fire, or a plain hot plate, such as a griddle. Crumpet-rings are indispensable to ensure an even thickness throughout; these can be pur- chased at any culinary or bakers’ tool-maker, and as the Crumpets cook quickly, a very few rings will be sufficient for one family. See Muffins. (1) Put in a basin 21b. of flour ; dissolve loz. of German yeast in lqt. of warm milk, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and when the yeast is dissolved mix the flour with the milk ; when it is quite smooth throw a cloth over the pan, and let the batter rise in a warm place; this will take about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Blake quite hot in the oven a stone slab, which should be about lin. thick and the size of an ordinary baking-sheet; when the slab is hot, oil it with butter, put some tin hoops, also oiled, in rows on to it, take out carefully large spoonfuls of the batter, and put one in each hoop ; shut the oven quickly, and bake the Crumpets in a sharp heat. When they are done one side, remove the hoops and turn the Crumpets over, that they may bake on the other side. In this way some excellent Crumpets will be procured. (2) Prepare a mixture with lib. of flour, 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and sufficient milk or water to give it the consistence of batter. Set it to rise, and let it remain until it is ready, which can be ascertained by dropping a little in a ring on a greased and heated iron plate. If it sots quickly, it is thick enough. Pour the batter into the rings on the heated plate to about Jin. thick, and when half done scrape across the Crumpets with a knife, levelling them to the rings; put the surplus batter back into the bowl. Turn the Crumpets O j> o484 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Crumpets—continued. when sufficiently done on one side, remove them from the rings, and they will soon he done and ready for use, either hot, cold, or toasted. Crumpet Cake with Clotted Cream.—(1) Dissolve \ tea- spoonful of salt and a small piece of German yeast in 1 pint of water, and pour this into lib. of the best white sifted flour; add sufficient water to form a nice dough, knead it well, then place it in a warm temperature to rise, covering it with a cloth. When risen to almost double its original size, make it into rounds about the size of a small dinner plate, and bake them. When done on both sides put one of the Crumpet- rounds into a circular baking-tin, the same in diameter as Fig. 591. Crumpet Cake with Clotted Cream. the Crumpet; over the first Crumpet spread a thin layer of clotted cream, and dust it with caster sugar ; put in another Crumpet, cover that also with clotted cream and caster sugar, and proceed in this way until the baking-tin is full, putting a layer of cream on the top. Put fib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 pint of water and 3oz. of butter, and stir it over a gentle fire until dissolved; then pour it over the Crumpets. Put the baking-tin in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes, then turn, place the Crumpet cake on a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 591. (2) Put about half-a-dozen Crumpets in a deep baking- dish, dusting each with caster sugar, pour | pint of milk over them, then spread a layer of clotted cream over the top one. Put four Crumpets on the top of the cream, dusting each one with caster sugar, and pour over another % pint of milk. Stand the pan over a gentle fire, boil the milk until the clotted cream shows signs of melting, then take it off. When almost cold, arrange the Crumpets on a dish, sift vanilla-flavoured caster sugar over all, and serve. Crumpets made with Hominy.—Mix and beat well together fib. of flour, nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled hominy, salt to taste, 1 pint of milk, and 2oz. of butter warmed till very soft. When all these are well mixed, stir in 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar mixed with 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Set the batter in a warm place for six hours, and when well risen stir in J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water; put the batter into crumpet- rings, let them stand for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and then bake in a hot oven. Serve hot with butter. Crumpets made with Rice. — Mix and beat well together fib. of flour, nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of thoroughly-boiled rice, salt to taste, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter warmed very soft, and 1 pint of milk ; when all this is well mixed, stir in 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Set the batter in a warm place for six hours. When well risen, stir in ^ saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water, put the batter into Crumpet- rings on a baking-sheet, let them stand for a-quarter-of-an- hour, then bake in a hot oven. Serve them hot, well buttered. Flannel-Crumpets.—Put lib. of sifted flour into a pan, mix into it 1 saltspoonful of salt, and put it in front of the fire. Warm £ pint of milk, and with it mix the flour into a smooth batter. Beat up two eggs well and stir them into 3 dessert- spoonfuls of fresh yeast, or 4| dessert-spoonfuls of dissolved German yeast. Beat the mixed yeast-and-eggs into the batter. If the batter is stiff, add a little more milk. Cover over the pan and set it near the fire till the batter rises Crumpets—continued. well; then pour a ladleful of the batter on a hot and greased baking-iron, and let it bake slowly. When one side is done, turn it and do the other. Butter the Crumpets, cut them across, and serve hot. Fried Crumpets in Turkish Style.—(1) Put lib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil it until reduced to a syrup. Dip the required quantity of Crumpets in beaten eggs ; put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the Crumpets and fry them on both sides until nicely browned. Drain the Crumpets, steep them in the boiling syrup, take them out, arrange on a hot dish, and sift ground almonds over them. Flavour a teacupful of water with a few drops of essence of rose-water or orange-flower water, pour it over the Crumpets, stand them in a slow oven for a few minutes until they have absorbed this, and then serve hot. (2) Blanch and skin 2oz. of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar, adding a few drops of rose-water to prevent them oiling. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the Crumpets and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, sift the pounded almonds and caster sugar over them, and serve. Pistachio-kernels do well instead off the almonds. CRUFNIC SOUP.—A Polish dish described under Soups. CRUSADES.—This is merely a fanciful name given to fried bread croutons hollowed out and filled with apricot, orange, or other marmalade. Cut some slices Jin. thick off a tin-loaf, and with a round paste-cutter, 3in. in diameter, cut out a dozen rounds or so, according to the number required. With another round cutter, l|in. in diameter, cut half-way through the rounds of bread. Fry them in butter to a golden brown, drain, and then, with the point of a knife, lift out the centre piece, and hollow the bread out as deeply as possible without penetrating the thickness. Fill these with marmalade, press the lid on to the marmalade, dust over all with almond, vanilla, or lemon-flavoured sugar, and put them in the oven to warm. Serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin. CRUSTS.—In this one word the British cook embraces a variety of productions. It includes the French Croustades and Croutons ; it is described also as the hard exterior or surface of bread, or a piece of bread become dry or hard, the cover or case of a pie, as well as the dough of which puddings are made. As far as possible the term has been qualified when used in this Encyclopaedia, and only used when no more suitable term could be found. As applying to the outsides of loaves of bread, it can only be said that they should not be thrown away, for, however stale, after a few minutes drying in the oven they can be grated, or pounded in a mortar to a very fine powder, which is useful for many culinary purposes, described under various headings. The deposit of tartar on the inside of wine-bottles is also termed “ crust,” and the wine “crusted” accordingly. See Pastes, Wines, &c. CRUSTAS.—See American Drinks. CRYSTALLISING. — This is one of the simplest and most useful processes known to confectioners, for by it little or no art is required to produce exquisite results that are the foundation of ornamental confectionery. Fruits, confections, and flowers can lie crystallised, as illustrated in some exquisite arrangements depicted among the coloured plates, and described under their various headings. In this article we have to deal with the principle of crystallisation only, and this can be readily understood and accomplished. The first thing that will be necessary to procure is a crystallising-tin (see Fig. 592). This consists of a tin box filled with wire gratings, or trays (see Fig. 593), so arranged that they can be let into the box in even stages, one above the other. This will suggest that the trays should be fitted with four legs, so ordered that the legs of the second trayTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 485 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Crystallising—continued. will rest upon the upper surface of the first, and so on for as many trays as are used—the less the better, one being better than all. Upon these trays the articles to be crystallised are carefully arranged with room between them, so that the crystals shall form all round. When the trays are filled and packed, the next step is to fill the box with a strong crystallising syrup. This is made by boiling loaf sugar in water—21b. to Fig. 592. Crystallising-tin. 1 pint of water—and continuing the boiling until the syrup reaches 220deg. Fahr. (see Sugar-Boiling). Then it should be taken from the fire and stood in a cool place until it is blood-warm. Pour this syrup over the articles to be crystallised, and fill up the tin well over the top layer. Set this in a cool, dry pantry, and leave for several hours, until a thick, strong, hard crust is formed on the surface. This will indicate that crystallisation has taken place, and that the articles on the trays or stages are also crystallised. Then pull out a plug situated at the bottom of the tin and let all the loose or uncrystallisable syrup drain off. Leave the articles on the trays a bit longer to dry and set nicely, and then they may be used for any purpose required of them. Be careful not to disturb the syrup when set for crystallising, or it will not succeed so well, and use no cream of tartar in the syrup. Flowers, and confections such as liqueur bonbons, require no preparation. Fruit should be previously lightly boiled in syrup. CUCUMBERS (TV. Concombres; Ger. Giirken; Ital. Cetriuoli; Sp. Coliombros).—These fruits have long been favourites in this country, where they are most Fig. 594. Telegraph Cucumber. commonly eaten raw as salad. On the Continent they are cooked and dressed in a variety of ways, and in Poland they are usually eaten with honey. Originally Cucumbers—continued. the Cucumber-plant (Cucumis sativus) was cultivated in Egypt, Palestine, India, and other Eastern countries; but although records of its growth in England date back to the reign of Edward III., it seems to have died out, to be revivified during the reign of Henry VIII., becoming general about the middle of the seventeenth century. The most famous Cucumber-plant is the Telegraph (see Fig. 594); but it may be said of all, that the flavour and size of the fruit depend upon the manner of its growing. To be prime, Cucumbers should be freshly cut, which is indicated by the stalk : those whose stalks are withered up to a thread, and are flabby instead of stiff and firm, should be discarded as indigestible. The addition of oil to Cucumbers renders them very harmless, and they may then be eaten with impunity. Hot-house Cucumbers are best, and are in season all the year round, but require very careful cultivation. They should be full-grown, large, and soft-skinned, carrying a bloom that is easily rubbed off by handling. When the bloom begins to disappear from the Cucumber, it should be left for seed, as it will then begin to be bitter. Young Cucumbers about 3in. or 4in. long are much used for pickling, but must not be confounded with gherkins, which grow upon a distinct plant. See Gherkins. There are various plants of the Cucumber tribe, some, such as the Bitter Cucumber (Citrullus Colocynthis), and Squirting Cucumber (Ecbattium), being medicinal. An FIG. 595. CUCUMBER-SLICER. ingenious apparatus consisting of three knife-blades in one handle (see Fig. 595) has been invented to simplify Cucumber slicing, but the ordinary cook is content with one blade—a sharp one. Compote of Cucumbers.—(1) Cut into slices or other desired shapes two or three sound unskinned Cucumbers, remove all the seeds, put the slices into a bowl of salted water, and let them soak for five hours or so. Take them out with a skimmer, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil from six to ten minutes. Then take them out again with the skimmer, put them into a saucepan of weak syrup, and boil until tender. Lift them out singly, put on a sieve to drain, and then on to a flat dish; boil and skim the syrup, pour it while hot over the pieces of Cucumber, place a piece of paper over the top, and set the dish aside for three days. Now drain them, boil another quantity of syrup to the crack degree, pour the other syrup into it, boil and skim for a few minutes, and then turn it over the Cucumber. On the next day, strain and strengthen the syrup as before, put in the Cucumber, and simmer. Turn all out again on to the dish, cover it over, and let it remain for three days longer. Repeat the process of strengthening the syrup once more, and simmer with the Cucumber in it as before. Put the Cucumber on a compote-dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. (2) Get some young Cucumbers without seeds, and split them lengthwise; cut them in 3in. pieces, and boil for ten minutes in a little salted water. Rinse them in cold water, put them in a sugar-boiler with some syrup, and boil. Put the pieces aside till the next day, so that they may get a green tinge. The following day, boil them again in the syrup, with the addition of a piece of cinnamon; turn them into a basin, and. when cold, serve with the syrup poured over. Cucumbers a la Bechamel.—(1) Remove the peel and seeds from one or two Cucumbers, cut them into slices, blanch in hot salted water, drain, and plunge them into cold water ; take them out and dry them. Pour some bechamel sauce into a saucepan on the side of the fire, warm the slices of Cucumber in it, without letting the sauce boil, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Peel and blanch six small Cucumbers in boiling salted water for five minutes. Remove, drain, and place them inTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 486 •s, 1be., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cucumbers—continued. a saute-pan with i pint of boiling bechamel sauce, Joz. of butter, a little nutmeg, and 1 gill of milt. Cook all together for fifteen minutes, pour the whole on a hot dish, and serve. Cucumbers a Blanc.—Peel and cut three Cucumbers into pieces about 2in. long, leaving the seeds ; put the pieces in a saucepan with 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, loz. of butter, and one or two chopped shallots; turn about over a moderate fire for ten minutes, without breaking the Cucumbers, and keeping them qrrite white. Cover with a little white broth and simmer till tender ; take the Cucumbers out with a large spoon, and drain them on a sieve. Put in the stewpan it pint of bechamel sauce and f pint of white broth ; skim off the butter, reduce till rather thick, add 5 teacupful of cream, season with salt and pepper, put in the Cucumbers, warm up, and serve. Cucumbers a la Blanquette.—Peel some small Cucumbers. Take some white thickening, made by melting butter with flour over the fire, mix with it a little chicken broth (not making it too thin), and boil with a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and some green onions. Skim, and strain it through a sieve or conical strainer; pour it into a stewpan with the Cucumbers, and let them stew a short time. Take them out, drain them, and reduce the liquor; thicken this with the yolks of four eggs, pour the sauce over the Cucumbers, and serve. Cucumbers a la Fran9aise.—Peel a green Cucumber, slice it very thinly, put it in a basin with Joz. of salt, and pickle for four hours. Drain well, and arrange the slices on a dish, with pepper, oil, vinegar, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped herbs, such as parsley, chervil, tarragon, and burnet, put over the slices. Cucumbers a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Peel two or three Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, remove the seeds, and cut into pieces about 3in. long. Plunge the pieces into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until done and tender; then take them out and drain. Put them into another saucepan with a little butter kneaded with flour, and add a small quantity of chopped onion and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss the pan over the fire for about five minutes, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve. Cucumbers a la Poulette.—(1) Peel and slice some Cucumbers, soak them for half-an-hour in salted vinegar, and drain on a cloth. Put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry over a brisk fire, but do not brown them. Sift over a little flour, and moisten with a little broth. Skim oft' the butter, reduce the broth, without breaking the slices of Cucumber, add a little chopped parsley and sugar, thicken with three or more eggs, according to the quantity of Cucumbers, and season with salt and pepper. Serve while hot. (2) Peel three medium-sized Cucumbers, cut them length- wise into quarters, and scrape out the seeds. Cut the Cucumbers into pieces 2in. long and lin. thick, and put them into a large saucepan with loz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 2qts. of water. When they are tender, which can be ascertained by passing a trussing-needle into them, di'ain on a cloth. Pour over the Cucumbers 1 pint of poulette sauce, and serve. (3) Peel three large Cucumbers, blanch them in boiling salted water for five minutes, drain, and cut them into slices lin. thick. Put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, sprinkle over them 1 pinch of flour, stir well, and moisten with 1 break- fast-cupful of white broth, seasoning with salt and pepper. Stir irntil it boils, and reduce the whole for fifteen minutes, adding 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little nutmeg, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet cream. Cook again for three minutes without letting it come to the boil, and serve. Cucumbers served like Cardoons.—Quarter some Cucumbers lengthwise, scrape out the seeds, and slit the outsides so that they may resemble cardoons. Blanch them in boiling water, stew in strong broth with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce in it, and boil over a sharp fire. Should the broth taste bitter, put in a little piece of sugar. Serve hot. Cucumbers stuffed with Forcemeat.—(1) Select Cucumbers of an equal size ; peel them, cut off one end, and scoop out the seeds. Lay the Cucumbers on a sieve, dredge them with Cucumbers—continued. salt, and let them drain. Prepare a sufficient quantity of cooked veal or chicken forcemeat, highly seasoned, and stuff the Cucumbers with it. Lay them in an enamelled saucepan, cover with sour cream, and boil slowly. When the Cucumbers are tender, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the remains of their cooking-liquor over them, and serve. See Fig. 596. (2) Peel some Cucumbers, cut off the stalk ends, scoop out the seeds, and fill up the hollows with a stuffing composed of minced cold veal, a small quantity of breadcrumbs, an egg, and some finely-chopped lemon-peel. Wrap some more stuffing up in vine-leaves, tying each up separately with a thread. Put a piece of butter at the bottom of a sauce- pan, lay the rolled vine-leaves and the stuffed Cucumbers side by side, add chopped onions, pepper, and mace, cover with good broth, and let them simmer gently till done. Carefully take out the Cucumbers and vine-leaves and put them on a dish; reduce the liquor in which they were boiled to half its original quantity; then pour it over the Cucumbers and vine-leaves, and serve. (3) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them into 2in. lengths, blanch them in boiling water, take them out, scrape out the seeds, and fill the hollows with quenelle forcemeat mixed up with a few table-spoonfuls of fine herbs. Spread some pieces of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the Cucumbers, moisten them with broth from which the fat has not been skimmed off, season with salt and spices, and cover them with buttered paper; place over a slow fire and braise. When done, drain the Cucumbers and dish them. Thicken the liquor in which they were cooked with a little sauce, flavour it with lemon, add a little chopped parsley, and pour it over the Cucumbers. (4) Cut four Cucumbers in the shapes of curls (see Crulls). When the outsides are cut, empty the insides with a scooper, blanch them in boiling water, then rinse in cold water; drain them, take a little quenelle forcemeat and fill the hollows of the Cucumbers with it. Put a layer of bacon in a stewpan, then the Cucumbers; cover with another layer of bacon, add pepper, salt, and broth, and let them stew gently in this, but not too long, or the Cucumbers will become pulpy. When done, drain them on a cloth, and serve with Spanish sauce, which should have been reduced almost to a glaze. (5) Peel six small Cucumbers, cut off the ends, and with a vegetable-scoop extract all the seeds. Place the Cucum- bers in slightly acidulated water, rinse well, boil in boiling water for three minutes, take them out and put in cold water. Drain and stuff them with cooked fowl force- meat. Line a saute-pan with slices of pork-skin ; put in the Cucumbers, season with salt and pepper, add a bouquet garni, 1 wineglassful of white wine, two cloves, and 1 table-spoonful of dripping from any kind of roasted meat. Cover with buttered paper, and place in a slow oven to cook gently for twenty minutes. When done, put on a hot dish, free them entirely from fat, pour over a breakfast- cupful of Madeira sauce, and serve. (6) Put two large Cucumbers into a saucepan of water, boil for ten or twelve minutes, then take them out and drain. Cut them lengthwise in halves, scoop out all tbe seeds, and fill the cavity with any rich forcemeat. Tie them in their original shape, sprinkle over with flour, put in the oven or a Dutch oven before the fire and brown them, basting frequently with hot butter. When they are done (they should not take longer than twenty minutes), put them on a dish, carefully remove the string so as not to part the halves, pour round hot rich gravy, and serve.487 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cucumbers—continued. (7) Open a tin of beef and turn the meat out, mince it in a sausag’e-machine together with some bacon or some of its own fat, and a piece of crumb of bread. Season to taste with salt, pepper, powdered allspice, chopped parsley, dried mint, thyme, and marjoram, and moisten with good gravy or stock. Peel some short Cucumbers, cut off the ends, and scoop out the insides; then mix a well-beaten egg with the moistened and seasoned mince and till the Cucumbers with it; put them in a stewpan on some slices of bacon, and braise gently till done. Drain them thoroughly from the bacon-fat, and serve with a little good g'ravy to which a squeeze of lemon-juice has been added. (8) Turkish.—Peel and cut some Cucumbers into pieces about 2in. long, blanch them in boiling water, drain them, scrape out the seeds, and fill the hollow with a preparation made as follows: Mince some bits of raw mutton, mix with them a little finely-chopped suet, 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion, a little parsley, and a few table-spoonfuls of blanched rice, and season well. Put the Cucumbers when filled in a saucepan with a little broth and tomato liquor, cook them, and when they are done dish them; mix a little gravy with the liquor in which the Cucumbers were cooked, boil it up, and strain it over them. Cucumber Fritter. Peel half a Cucumber, remove the seeds, stuff it with forcemeat, dip it first into flour and then into batter, put it into a frying-pan with plenty of fat, and fry to a light brown. Sprinkle over with salt, and serve. A tureenful of gravy may accompany it. Cucumbers for Garnish.—(1) Cut the Cucumbers lengthwise into quarters, having first peeled them, remove the seeds, and cut the Cucumbers into oval pieces 2in. long, as deep and wide as the size of the fruit will allow. Blanch them in boiling- water, drain, and fry in a saute-pan with sugar and butter. When they are brown, put them in a stewpan with a little veal stock, and finish cooking. Put them by for use. (2) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, scrape out the seeds, and cut the Cucumbers into oval pieces 2in. long, and as wide and thick as the fruit will allow. Put them in a stewpan with cold water, and when it comes to the boil, drain the Cucumber, put it in a saucepan with a white dressing, made by mixing a little flour with stock and adding a piece of clarified poultry fat. Cook the Cucumbers in this, and when they are done, let them remain in the liquor till they are cool. Use as required. Cucumber Ketchup.—(1) Peel some Cucumbers, pound them in a mortar, sprinkle salt over, and leave them for several hours to extract the juice. Strain off the juice by twisting in a towel, season it well, and boil it. Pour it into bottles and cork tightly till wanted for use. (2) Grate some Cucumbers, press out the juice, and mix with it an equal quantity of vinegar ; pour this over the grated Cucumber, add salt and pepper, bottle, and cork it tightly. This ketchup will keep good for years. (3) Peel and chop very finely twelve large Cucumbers, an equal measure of Spanish onions, four large green peppers without the seeds, one small clove of garlic, and four shallots, and grate one medium-sized root of horseradish. Put all these ingredients into a porcelain-lined saucepan over the fire, add enough cold vinegar to cover them, together with 1 teacup- ful of salt, 1 table-spoonful each of ground cloves, allspice, mace, and cinnamon, and red pepper to taste. Boil gently until the ketchup is of the proper consistency, then cool and bottle it. Cucumbers stuffed with Ox-Marrow. — (1) Peel two or three Cucumbers, chop off the ends, and cut them up into slices about l^in. thick; put the slices into boiling salted j water to blanch, then take them out, and drain. Prepare a stuffing of ox-marrow, breadcrumbs, and finely-chopped parsley; scoop out the inside of the slices of Cucumber, stuff them with the marrow mixture, put them in a dish over a few thin slices of fat bacon, pour in a little sharp or other sauce, and cook slowly in the oven until the Cucumbers are done. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a little hot half-glaze, and serve. (2) Peel half-a-dozen large Cucumbers, split them lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds with a teaspoon. With the seeds and their surrounding pulp mix an equal quantity each of breadcrumbs and chopped ox-marrow, and a high seasoning Cucumbers—continued. of salt and pepper ; stuff the Cucumbers with this forcemeat, laying the halves together, and securing them in place by running small wooden skewers entirely through them. Put the stuffed Cucumbers into an earthen dish just large enough to hold them, pour over sufficient meat-gravy to cover, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, or until they are tender; ihen remove the skewers, and serve the Cucumbers hot. If there is no gravy on hand, make some as follows: Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until light brown ; then gradually mix in 1 pint of boiling water, season with salt and pepper, let it boil for a minute, and then use. Cucumber Salad.— (1) Take three medium-sized Cucumbers, lay them on ice till thoroughly chilled, then pare them, taking care to leave no trace of the green skin, a very small bit of which would be enough to spoil the salad. Slice the Cucumbers very thinly and arrange them in a glass dish or shallow bowl; mix together J teaspoonful of ground white pepper and 1 teaspoon- ful of salt, and sprinkle this over and among them ; then mix 1 table-spoonful of vinegar with 2 table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, and pour it over. (2) Peel, and cut lin. off each end of a large Cucumber. Cut it into thin slices, and keep these in cold salted water till wanted. Drain, and put them in a bowl with ice. Thinly Fig. 597. Cucumber Salad. slice some young onions, mix them with the Cucumber, and pour over a vinaigrette, made by mixing together 3 table- spoonfuls of oil, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and | saltspoonful of pepper. See Fig. 597. (3) Blanch Alb. of skinned almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound them; soak the crumb of half a French roll in water, then squeeze it well and put it in with the almonds, adding also three peeled cloves of garlic and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Pound all the above-mentioned ingredients together until formed into a smooth paste, then add the juice of two lemons and sufficient water to bring the whole to the consistency of cream, stirring well with a wooden spoon. Peel two small Cucumbers or one large one, cut into thin slices, arrange them on a dish, dust with salt and pepper, and pour over them the above mixture ; then pour in gradually J teacupful of olive oil, and serve. This sauce can be used with a variety of vegetables in making salads. (4) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them into thin slices, put them in a salad-bowl, dust salt over, and toss them about. Peel three cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar, and pound; then mix in 1 pint of curd, and beat well, pouring in gradually sufficient water to bring the whole to the consistency of thin cream. Put a few small pieces of ice in the salad-bowl with the Cucumber, pour the dressing over when cold, and serve. (5) Peel two or three Cucumbers, cut them into slices, and let them stand for an hour in very cold salted water, Drain them, dry on a cloth, and dress with plenty of oil and vinegar and a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, or with cream salad dressing. Young onions sliced make a good addition to Cucumber salad. Cucumber Sauce.— (1) This is made by adding a very little juice squeezed from grated Cucumber, or the Cucumber itself, to a mayonnaise sauce. (2) Chop two or three pickled Cucumbers and a little lemon-peel, put them over the fire with ^oz. of butter rolled in flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of thick gravy, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Stir constantly till quite hot, but do not let it boil. Mix with it a liaison of yolks of eggs, and serve.488 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Cucumbers—continued. Cucumber Soup.—(1) Put in a stewpan Jib. of butter, two sliced shallots, six Jerusalem artichokes (if obtainable), Jib. of lean ham, and six peeled Cucumbers ; stir this mixture oyer a slow fire for twenty minutes, then add the well-pounded flesh of half a braised fowl and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour. When these are well blended, pour in 3qts. of veal stock and lqt. of boiled milk; stir it till it boils, then strain through a cloth into a clean stewpan ; skim, and season with salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Have ready about twenty pieces of Cucumber, peeled, cut, and stewed as for Cucumbers a Blanc, put them in a tureen, mix J pint of cream with the soup, pour it over them, and serve. (2) Thicken some good beef stock with fried onions and flour done to a roux of a nice bright colour. Cut some Cucumbers, with the peel on, in pieces, and boil them in water till quite tender; squeeze them through a colander, keeping the skin back. Mix the pulp with the prepared stock, season with pepper and salt, boil up, and serve with croutons of toast. (3) Put into a saucepan a neck of mutton, a thick slice of lean bacon, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, one scraped and washed carrot, two peeled and washed turnips, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 4qts. of water. Let all these simmer together till the water is reduced one-fourth, and then strain. Put into the saucepan the crumb of a French roll with loz. of butter, and fry it brown; then put in four good-sized Cucumbers, peeled and cut small, and a couple of lettuces, washed and cut small, let them stew for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and add lqt. of the mutton broth. As soon as it boils, put in 1 pint of green peas, and as it stews add gradually 2qts. more of the mutton broth. When the Cucumbers and peas are done, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Cucumber Vinegar.—Peel fifteen large Cucumbers, cut them into slices, put them in a wide-mouthed bottle or stone jar, together with 3 teaspoonfuls of pepper, J teaspoonful of cayenne, 2 piled table-spoonfuls of salt, a little garlic, two or three shallots, and four large onions cut in slices, and pour over 6 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar. Let this stand for fully four days, then transfer the whole to a saucepan, boil for a minute or two, let the liquor get cold, strain, filter into small bottles, and cork securely. The vinegar is then ready for use. Curried Cucumbers.—Put lib. or so of loin of mutton, lamb, or veal into a mortar, and pound it well, adding two or three onions and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Peel as many Cucumbers as are required, cut off the ends, and remove the seeds; stuff the fruit with part of the force- meat, and with the remainder form forcemeat balls. Put all into a saucepan with some good stock, sprinkle over a dessert-spoonful or so of curry-powder, and stew for fully an hour. Turn the whole on to a dish, garnish with boiled rice, and serve as hot as possible. Fried Cucumbers.—(1) Peel two or three Cucumbers, cut them up into thick slices, and remove the seeds; put the pieces into a deep earthenware dish with salted water slightly acidulated with vinegar, and let them soak for an hour or so. Take them out, drain and dry on a cloth, put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry a light brown. Take the Cucumbers out, drain them, and they are ready for use. They are generally used for brown ragouts. (2) Peel the Cucumbers, taking off every bit of green skin, lay them in ice water, and leave them for half-an-hour; cut them lengthwise into slices nearly Jin. thick, and again lay in ice water, in which let them remain for ten minutes; then take out and wdpe dry with a soft cloth. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, dredge with flour, and fry a light brown in butter or lard. (3) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into thick slices, and lay in water for a little while. When ready to fry, dry them, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in egg- and-breadcrumb, and fry, with the cover over the pan, until light brown. Serve while hot. Fried Cucumbers served on Toast.—Peel two Cucumbers, and slice them lengthwise about Jin. thick. Put over the fire in a large frying-pan 2 piled table-spoonfuls of butter, and when it browns put in the Cucumbers, and fry them brown. In the meantime make as many slices of toast as there are Cucumbers—continued. pieces of Cucumber, butter them, and keep them hot. When the Cucumbers are done, serve them on the toast (see Fig. 598). Fig. 598. Fried Cucumber served on Toast. Glazed Cucumbers.—Peel some Cucumbers, cut them into quarters, split them in the middle, scrape out the seeds, and blanch in boiling water. Lay a few slices of raw ham at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the Cucumbers, with a little gravy, and let them boil till the gravy is reduced to glaze; then dish them. Mix with the liquor a little white wine, let it boil, thicken with kneaded butter, strain it over the Cucumbers, and serve. Grated Cucumbers.—In season use fresh Cucumbers; in winter use salted or pickled ones. Grate the fruit on a coarse grater, and if the fresh vegetable is used, squeeze out nearly all the juice. Season the pulp highly with salt and pepper, and pack it in glass jars. Pour in strong cold vinegar, quite filling the jars, and then seal them air-tight. They will be fit for use in about a week. The flavour of the pickle can be varied by adding to the grated Cucumber one-fourth its quantity of grated green peppers without the seeds, or of white onions peeled and grated. Marinaded Cucumbers with Duck.—Thinly slice three salted Cucumbers, lay them in a basin, pour 1 pint of water and J teacupful of vinegar over them, and let them marinade for two or three hours. Cut a small duck into eight pieces; peel and slice an onion, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry it for a few minutes ; then put in the pieces of duck, and fry them until lightly browned; pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of stock, add a clove of garlic and a bay-leaf, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender ; then drain the slices of Cucumber and put them in with the duck to get hot. When ready, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Pickled Cucumbers.—(1) Cut a piece out of the .sides of two or three dozen large Cucumbers, and scoop out the seeds with a small spoon. The Cucumbers should not be over-ripe or yellow at the ends. Put them into a bowl of salted water, and let them remain for nine days, or until they become yellow, stirring up every two or three days; then take them out, put them into a saucepan with a good supply of vine-leaves both under and over them, pour in the brine in which they soaked, place the saucepan over a clear fire, and boil slowly for about five hours ; take them out, and drain dry. Stuff the cavity in each with a little each of horseradish, garlic, capsicum, mustard-seed, and peppercorns, keeping each in- gredient as much by itself as possible without mixing; continue in layers until the hole is filled up, then place in its proper position the piece that was cut out, and sew it up. Pour lgall. or so of vinegar—sufficient to cover the Cucumbers when added to them—into a saucepan, add to each gallon loz. each of cloves and mace, 2oz. each of long pepper, ginger in slices, and Jamaica pepper, and 3oz. of mustard-seed, all tied up in a muslin bag; add also a root of horseradish cut up length- wise into strips, and Jib. of heads of garlic. Place the sauce- pan on the fire and boil for about five minutes; remove the bag of spice, pour the whole over the Cucumbers in jars to cover them, tie them over securely, and let them remain for five or six days, when they will be ready for use. (2) Peel a large Cucumber, slice it lengthwise down the middle, scrape out the seeds, and cut it into pieces about Jin. square ; put these into a large bottle or jar, with a dozen chillies and a little salt, and fill up the bottle or jar with distilled white vinegar. Keep for a month in a cool place ; at the end of that time the pickle will be ready for use. (3) Select the requisite quantity of small green Cucumbers, put them in a pan of cold water, and scrub w’ell with a brush to remove the prickles. Put them in a vessel with water that has been strongly salted with rock-salt, and let them steep in this for three days; at the end of that time drain them,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 489 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Cucumbers—continued. and put into jars with a few small onions, cloves of garlic, and small bunches of herbs, composed of bay-leaves, tarragon, and burnet. Pour into a saucepan sufficient vinegar to cover the Cucumbers, place it over the fire until boiling, then pour it immediately over the pickles. When the vinegar is quite cold, cover the jars with pieces of wet parchment, and tie them round securely, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight. Look at the pickles occasionally, and if the vinegar turns white, throw it and the spices away, with the exception of the onions; then put in a fresh quantity as before described, cover again with boiling' vinegar, and when it is cold tie the parchment over the jars. (4) Select small smooth-skinned Cucumbers—those without seeds are the best—and wijie them over with a clean cloth. Cover the bottom of a small, very clean barrel or an earthenware crock with sour cherry-leaves, vine-leaves, and two or three walnut-leaves, and pack the “Cucumbers closely in, with two or three of the above-mentioned leaves here and there, also a sprig or two of green dill. When all the Cucumbers are packed, cover them with wild cherry-leaves. Prepare a weak brine and pour it over the Cucumbers so as to submerge them; then cover them with a plate or block of wood, over which put a weight. Stand the barrel in a warm tem- perature until small bubbles form on the top of the brine ; then remove it to a cool place. A small quantity of vinegar or tartaric acid may be mixed in the brine if liked. The pickles will be fit for eating in a month from the time of making'. (5) Select large yellow Cucumbers; peel, and split them lengthwise down the centre, scoop out all the seeds, then cut them into small pieces of various shapes; put the Cucumbers in a tub and pour over them sufficient of the best vinegar to cover them. In about two days’ time, drain the vinegar from the Cucumbers, measure it, pour it into a lined vessel, and for each 3qts. add lib. of sugar, Joz. of stick cinnamon, ‘2oz. of white ginger, half a grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves. Boil the vinegar, &c., for ten minutes, then put in the Cucumbers and boil them for two minutes; drain the Cucumbers (they should not be the least bit soft), and pack in stone jars. Pour the pickle over while hot, and leave them for a week ; at the end of that time, strain the pickle from the Cucumbers and boil it up again. Leave the pickle until cold, then pour it over the Cucumbers again; tie pieces of stout paper or parch- ment over the jars, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (6) Choose firm, seedless Cucumbers, and wipe them on a dry cloth. Peel a few pickling onions and steep them in salted water for a short time. Pack the Cucumbers closely in a large jar, strewing between them the onions, also loz. of ginger that has been broken into small pieces, Joz. of whole pepper, ^oz. of pimento, and a few bay-leaves; also add a few sprigs of tarragon and dill. Cover them with two- thirds vinegar and one-third water, with 1 dessert-spoonful of salt for every 3 pints of the liquor. Tie stout paper or parchment over the jar, and keep it in a cool, dry place. (7) Put some fennel at the bottom of a stone jar, then put in the required quantity of small Cucumbers, and lay some more fennel over them. Pour in sufficient salted water to cover them, put a board on the top, and on that a heavy weight to press the Cucumbers down. Keep them in a warm temperature for a week. At the end of that time, move the jar into a cool place, and leave it for ten days. The Cucumbers are then ready for use. (8) Choose small Cucumbers, lay them upon dishes, sprinkle salt over, and let them lie a week; then drain them well, put into stone jars, pour boiling vinegar over, place them near the fire, and cover well with vine-leaves. If not a good green, pour off the vinegar and boil it again; cover the Cucumbers with fresh vine-leaves, and continue doing so until they are a good colour. On no account must air be allowed to get to them. (9) Another good method of pickling Cucumbers is to put them in salted water as they are picked, changing the salted | water once in three or four days. Take them out, drain, put them into jars, pour over scalding-hot vinegar seasoned with alum, salt, and peppercorns, cover over, and pack away for use. (10) Put some small, but not too young, Cucumbers in a stone jar, add a small piece of alum, and pour over them a Cucumbers—continued. strong brine. Soak them in this for a week, then pour off the brine, cover with clear water, and let them remain for two days. Strain the water off the Cucumbers, and pour over them some cider vinegar that has been boiled and allowed to get cool (cloves, mustard, allspice, and cinnamon should have been boiled in the vinegar). Cucumbers pickled in this manner will keep good for quite a year. (11) Select a sufficient quantity of very small Cucumbers, as nearly of one size as possible, to fill a ljgall. jar. Wash, lay them in a lined pan with a very small lump of alum, cover with green grape-leaves, and moisten to height with vinegar and water in equal quantities. Place the pan over a moderate fire and leave the Cucumbers until of a rich green colour; then take- out with a wooden spoon and put them in the jar. Mix with Jgall. of good cider vinegar loz. of allspice, Joz. of mace, Joz. of nutmeg, £ table-spoonful of celery-seed, loz. of stick cinnamon, loz. of whole peppers, and half a red pepper; add also -fib. of brown sug'ar, three bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful each of ground ginger and white mustard- seeds, a small orange, and a lemon, both of them sliced and with their pips removed. Stir the mixture over the Cucumbers, tie a stout piece of paper over the jar, and put by for use. (12) Hot.—Select the requisite quantity of fully-grown Cucumbers, peel them, cut into halves, scoop out the seeds, and trim round the edges. Put the Cucumbers into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for a minute or two; drain them, lay in a large stone jar, strewing salt between the layers, and cover with wine vinegar. Leave them in the vinegar for one week ; then strain off the latter, and boil it up with a few cloves and peppercorns. Pack the Cucumbers again with a number of halved shallots, slices of horseradish, a few cloves of gai-lic, capsicums, sprigs of tarragon, bay-leaves, and a few small pieces of mace. Leave the vinegar until cold, then pour it over the Cucumbers, and tie a piece of parchment or stout paper over the jar. In ten or fourteen days’ time re-boil the vinegar, and when it has got cold, pour it over the pickles, and cover the jar again. (13) Russian.—Select full-grown seedless Cucumbers of an equal size, strew plentifully with salt, and let them remain thus for two days. At the end of that time, wipe them, and pack in earthen jars with peeled shallots and cloves of garlic between them, allowing for every dozen of the Cucumbers Jib. of the former and Joz. of the latter. Lay on the top of them a good handful each of fresh basil, dill-, and tarragon-leaves, also a pod of chillies. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover the Cucumbers, and pour it over them while hot. Tie a piece of very stout paper or bladder over the jars and leave them for fourteen days ; at the end of that time, strain the vinegar off the Cucumbers, boil it again, adding more vinegar if necessary to keep up the original quantity, and when cold pour it over the Cucumbers. Tie the jars over again, and keep them in a dry place for five or six weeks ; at the end of that time they will be fit for use. Pickled Cucumbers (like Mango Pickles).—(1) Select young but fully-grown Cucumbers, cut a small piece out of the side of each and scoop out the seeds, cover them with salt, and leave them for one night. Cut up into small pieces an equal quantity each of horseradish, shallots, and capers ; mix them together with a quarter their bulk of mustard-seeds, the third of a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of bruised cloves, and a small quantity of white pepper. On the following day, dry the Cucumbers on a cloth, and stuff them with the above mixture. Fix the pieces that were taken out of the sides in their places again and bind them round with twine to keep them in position. Put them in large jars, packing them closely together, and pour over sufficient of the best vinegar to cover them. Tie a piece of parchment or stout paper over each jar, and put them in a cool, dry cupboard till wanted. (2) Cut a narrow strip out of the side of large, not very ripe Cucumbers, and scrape out the seeds; mix some of the seeds with a few mustard-seeds, a little scraped horseradish, finely- shred garlic, and white peppers, and pound them. Fill the hollow of the Cucumbers with this mixture, put the strips back again, and tie round with thread. Cover the Cucumbers with boiling vinegar; strain, re-cover with boiling vinegar every day for three days, and on the last day boil the vinegar with Joz. of cloves, Joz. of mace, 2oz. of whole pepper, 2oz. of mustard-seeds, 1 stick of horseradish, and a clove of garlic, to every Jgall. of vinegar.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. 490 Cucumbers—continued. Put the Cucumbers in jars with the boiling vinegar, cover, and tie down tightly. (3) Select Cucumbers of a medium size, put them in a tub with salted water to cover, and let them steep for nine days; then drain the Cucumbers, pour fresh unsalted water over, and leave for a day and night. Afterwards drain, and lay the Cucumbers in a preserving-pan, covering each layer with a layer of green grape-leaves and 1 teaspoonful of powdered alum. Moisten to height with vinegar and water in equal quantities, and place them over a gentle fire until quite green. Peel and remove the seeds from several lemons, and cut them into small pieces ; also stone an equal quantity of raisins. When ready, scoop the seeds out of the Cucumbers, and fill them with the lemon and raisins. Put the Cucumbers in jars with a few cloves and a moderate quantity of stick cinnamon that has been broken into small pieces. Make a sufficient quantity of syrup with vinegar and sugar to cover the Cucumbers, allowing ljlb. of sugar for every igall. of vinegar, and pour it over the Cucumbers. On the following- morning strain the syrup off the Cucumbers, heat it up again without allowing it to boil, and pour it over them. Proceed thus for the eight following days, making a little more syrup if necessary, as the Cucumbers must be well covered. On the last day, leave the vinegar until cold, then tie the jar over with stout paper and put it away for use. Preserved Cucumbers.—(1) Boil some small well-formed Cucumbers for two or three minutes; take them out of the water, pierce with a needle in three or four places, and let them drain. To every pound of Cucumber, allow lib. of sugar and 1 pint of water; put all in a stewpan with a stick of ginger and the rind of one lemon. Boil, then let it simmer at the side of the fire for five minutes. Take out the Cucumbers, put them in a jar, skim the syrup, pour it over them, cover the jar tightly, and let it remain for two or three days. Strain off the syrup, give it another boiling, pour it again over the Cucumbers, tie a bladder over the top of the jar, and keep it in a cool place. (2) Select some large Cucumbers, put them in a large crock, pour a strong brine over them, lay a few cabbage-leaves over the top, tie paper tightly over the crock, and leave it in a corner of the stove until the Cucumbers turn yellow; then take them out, put in a sauce- pan with more salted water and a cabbage-leaf over the top, and let them heat gently until green. When they are a good colour, remove from the fire, and let them remain in the liquor till cool. Peel, and cut them into long fingers, scrape away the seeds, and rinse the pieces several times in cold water to take out all the salt. Boil enough syrup to cover the Cucumbers, using lib. of sugar and loz. of ginger to every pint of water, and when the proper thickness, let it cool. Drain and pack the Cucumbers neatly in a glass jar (see Pig. 599), pour the syrup over them, and keep the jar in a cool place. Look at the preserve in a few days, and if the syrup shows signs of fermenting, it must be boiled again. (3) Green the Cucumbers by scalding with vine-leaves and alum ; wipe them with a dry cloth, cut out a piece from the side of each, scoop out the seeds, fill the hollows with a little grated lemon-peel and bruised mace, and tie on the cut-out pieces with packthread. Put in a preserving-ketde lib. of loaf sugar and | pint of water to each pound of Cucumber, and j the beaten white of one egg to every 41b., and boil the sugar, skimming it till quite clear ; add lemon and sliced ginger to suit the taste. When cool, pour the syrup over the Cucumbers, and leave them in it for two days, with a plate over to keep them well under the syrup. Boil the syrup up again, adding one-half the quantity of the ingredients used before, and the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Cucumbers -continued. juice and grated peel of two lemons, for every six Cucumbers. When the syrup has boiled for two minutes, strain it, pour it over the Cucumbers, put them in small jars, and cover down tightly. Puree of Cucumbers. (1) Prepare and stew three Cucumbers; put the trimmings and worst-shaped pieces in a stewpan with loz. of butter and J teaspoonful of chopped onions. Cook them over a moderate fire for twelve minutes, then add 3 table- spoonfuls of veal stock, and simmer till the Cucumbers are quite tender; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of stock, and lj teacupfuls of bechamel sauce. Season with i- teaspoonful of sugar, salt and pepper, and pass it through a sieve. When ready to serve, add 5 teacupful of cream. (2) Peel some young Cucumbers, and boil the peels in mutton broth until it has the flavour but does not taste bitter; then remove the peel, cut the Cucumbers in pieces, and boil them in the same broth until soft enough to mash to a pulp. When so far done, take them out, rub through a colander, put the pulp in the saucepan again with the broth, and season with butter, vinegar, pepper, and- salt. Boil it up, taking care not to let it burn, and serve. Stewed Cucumbers.—(1) Peel some Cucumbers, split them lengthwise into four pieces each, scoop out the seeds, and wash the pieces; cut them into smaller lengths, put into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender; drain them, and dry on a cloth. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then put in the pieces of Cucumber, moisten nearly to height with broth, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir the whole over the fire until the liquor has reduced to the required thickness. When ready, take the saucepan off the fire, place it at the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two egg-s and a few drops of vinegar. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) When the Cucumbers are pared, cut them down the middle, take out the seeds, and cut into pieces about 2in. long. Fry the pieces in a little butter, add to them some brown sauce, a little vinegar, and a sprinkling- of salt, and let them stew gently till done. (3) Peel some Cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, and scrape out the seeds. Put them in a saucepan with a large lump of butter, and stew them till quite tender. When done, take the Cucumbers out, and sprinkle them with salt and pounded mace; thicken with flour a little of the liquor in which they were cooked, and pour it over them. (4) Peel three or four young Cucumbers, cut in thick slices, stew in water with a little salt and vinegar in it for fifteen minutes, and then strain. Make 1 breakfast-cupful of cream sauce in a saucepan, and beat in the yolks of two eggs and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Arrange the Cucumbers on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (5) Peel three medium-sized Cucumbers, cut them in slices 2in. long, with the seeds left in. Melt in a stewpan 2oz. of butter, with 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar and 5 teaspoonful of chopped onions; put in the Cucumbers, and cook them over the fire till tender and lightly browned. Put in another stewpan 1 pint of half-glaze and -J pint of consomme, and reduce it until rather thick ; add the Cucumbers, season with pepper and salt, boil for two minutes, skim, and serve. (fi) Fob Garnish. -Peel three large Cucumbers, cut them in slices, and put in a dish, with 1 pinch of salt, | pinch of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and 1 sliced onion placed over them. Leave them to marinade for one hour; strain, and put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of Spanish sauce. Cook for twenty minutes, strain through a fine sieve, and use as required. CUISINE.—Fr. for Kitchen. Clief de Cuisine is the head cook, and his assistants are Aides de Cuisine. CULINARY UTENSILS {Fr. Batterie de Cuisine). — It has been said that a good workman never finds fault with his tools. This may have a tinge of truth in some cases, hut as applied to cooking it is manifestly absurd, for the best work invariably requires the best and most suitable tools. Anecdotes of the shifts to which cooks have been put in the kitchens of parsimonious proprietors are amusing and plentiful; but no cook of any experience under their special heads. Fig. 599. Preserved Cucumbers. Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, seeTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 491 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Culinary Utensils—continued. will venture to assert that he can turn out the best kind of work without appropriate utensils. What is, and what is not, required in a kitchen thus depends upon the ability and proficiency of the cook and the requirements of the employer. The following alphabetical list may be con- sidered sufficiently exhaustive to suit a high-class kitchen, although there are few to lie found so perfectly fitted: Baba-mould, for baba cake ; Bain-marie, with sauce-, soup-, and glaze-pots; Baking-sheets; Basket made of wire, to hold salad ; Basins, in variety ; Biscuit-bag, and other biscuit utensils such as cutters, dockers, and a break if required; Blanching - pan; Boiling - pot; Border - moulds ; Braising - pan, with drainer and charcoal-fire cover ; Brawn-press ; Bread- grater ; Bread-pan ; Bread-rasp, and Bread-tins ; Broth-napkins ; Broth - skimmer ; Burnishers, for brightening metal-work: Butter-brush ; Cake-moulds and Hoops ; Charlotte-moulds ; Choppers, Chopping-block, and Chopping-boards ; Cleaver, for bones ; Clock ; Coal-scuttle ; Coffee-mill, and Coffee-roaster ; Colanders, tin and copper ; Cook’s Knives ; Cradle, and ordinary Spits; Cutlet-bat; Cylinder - mould, for aspics, jellies, &c.; Dariole-moulds; Digester; Dishes of all sorts; Dishing-up Forks and Spoons; Double-boiler for milk, custard, beef-tea, &c. ; Dripping-pan, with well and basting-ladle; Egg-bowl, Egg-slice, and Egg-wliisk ; Fat-pan, with drainer ; Filter ; Fish-kettle and Fish-slice ; Flawn-ring ; Flour-dredger and Flour-tub; Freezing-pot and Pail; French-roll Tin ; Frican- deau-pan ; Frying-pan and Basket; Funnels ; Gauffre-iron ; Gratin-dishes; Gravy-strainers, two or three different shapes and sizes ; Gridirons, for bar and to hang; Herb-tray ; Holdfasts, for joints ; Ice-bucket ; Iced-pudding Moulds; Jelly-bags and Stand; Jelly-moulds, various; Larding- and Daubing - Needles; Marble Mortar and Wooden Pestle, for pounding meat, &c. ; Measures for liquids, quart, pint, 5 pint, and gill; Meat-hooks, Meat-saw, and Meat-skewers; Mince-pie Pans ; Omelet-pans ; Palette-knives ; Paste-board, Slab, and Rolling-pins; Paste-brush, Paste-jagger, Paste-knife, and Paste-nippers; Pastry - cutters in boxes, round plain, round fluted, and fancy shapes ; Poultry-singer ; Poultry- skewers; Preserving-pan; Puree-presser; Raised-pie Moulds; Root-knife; Salamander on Stand; Saucepans, in about six different sizes ; Saucepan - brush ; Saute - pans ; Scales and Weights; Screen, with hot closet; Sieves, hair, wire, and silk ; Spatulas ; Spice-box ; Spoon-drip ; Steak-tongs ; Stewpans, in sizes from 1 pint to 9qts. ; Stewpan with Steamers, 6qts. and 7qts. ; Stock-ladles and Stockpots ; Sugar-boiler and Sugar- dredger ; Syrup-gauge and Testing-glass ; Tammy-cloths ; Tartlet-pans ; Tea-kettle ; Terrines ; Timbale-moulds ; Tin- opener ; Toasting-fork ; Trussing-needles ; Turbot-kettle ; Vegetable - cutter and Scoops ; Waffle-iron ; Water-cans ; Wooden Spoons ; and a variety of others which will be found described, as well as these, under their various headings. CULLET. — The technical term for broken bottles and glass generally, by which name it is bought for re- melting. CULLIS.—This word answers to the French Coulis, I having precisely the same meaning in one sense, but one that is widely extended, even to our custard, by Continental cooks. Being derived from the verb colder, to How, it is just possible that it was intended to signify a gravy or melted jelly that did How, and just so thick that if it were a little more consistent it would not flow. A double cream would be a Cullis, whereas clotted cream loses its claim to the word. The following receipts are for gravies that come rightly under this heading: (1) Take about lib. of bacon or undressed ham, cut it in pieces about fin. thick, and strew at the bottom of a saucepan ; upon this put 21b. of lean beef or veal, one large onion stuck with cloves, one large carrot cut in slices, a bunch of herbs, 1 saltspoonful of bruised celery - seed (or a few sticks of celery), a bay-leaf, two blades of mace, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper (put the smaller spices in a muslin bag), and pour over all f pint of water. Cover over the pan, set it over the fire to simmer for thirty minutes, or until all the liquor has boiled away, and the meat, after being turned, is browned on both sides. Then pour over it 3 pints of boiling water or stock, and simmer for about three hours. Add gradually Cullis—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of flour made into a smooth paste with a little gravy or cold water, and simmer for another twenty minutes. Add a little water if too thick, or simmer a little longer if too thin. Strain well, remove the fat, and it is ready for use. (2) Break the bone of a leg of mutton or a large piece of beef into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little bacon-rind or ham-bone chopped small and 5 pints of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil; then remove it to the side and let it simmer for five hours, taking care that it does not leave off simmering. Pass the liquor through a sieve, skim it, and replace it in the saucepan with a large onion stuck with three cloves, % teaspoonful of bruised celery- seeds'-(or a few bits of celery), a bay-leaf, a sliced carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and simmer for two hours longer. Strain again, and add 1 teaspoonful of extract of meat and a little colouring. Stir in, a little at a time, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly mixed with a little cold water, and simmer for twenty minutes longer. Add water if too thick, or simmer longer if too thin. All the vegetables must be strained out. This Cullis will keep for seven or eight days, but in summer it would be advisable to boil it every third day. (3) Line the bottom of a stewpan with a few slices of ham, and put on tlijit some fleshy pieces of veal; pour in enough stock-broth to cover it to half the thickness of the meat, and let it stew on a brisk fire, taking care that it does not burn. When the broth is reduced, cut the meat here and there so that the gravy may run out, and let it simmer gently, stirring it occasionally, so that the glaze may be all the same colour and the meat will not stick. When the glaze is a dark red colour, stir it up thoroughly with some hot broth; flavour with mushrooms, green onions, and a bunch of parsley. Mix some brown thickening with the gravy, but do not make it too thick, or the fat will not be easily removed, and let it stew for one hour; skim off the fat, and strain through a sieve or cloth. CUMBERLAND PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. CUMIN (Fr. Cumin; Ger. Kfimmel; Ital. Comino).— This word is sometimes spelled Cummin, but as it claims origin from tlie Arabian quamoun, preference is given to tlie mode adopted in the heading. In cookery the seeds of the plant (Cuminum) are occasionally used, especially in the making of curries. They are aromatic and pungent, resembling in a way the seeds of the caraway, for which they are used as a substitute. Germans use Cumin-seeds in bread-making, the Dutch flavour cheese with them, and the Turks are very fond of them in their ragouts. The plant is an annual somewhat resembling fennel, and although it grows very readily, it is not much cultivated, perhaps for that reason; but in olden times both monks and nuns made of it a beverage which acted as a comforter to the starved stomach during days of rigid fasting. A liqueur has been made from Cumin which is little else than that already described as Anisette. CUNNER.-A small edible fish (Gtenolabrus adsper- sus) frequenting the Atlantic coasts; it is known also as Chogset, Burgall, Blue-perch, and Bait-stealer. Sometimes the word is spelled Connor. The mode of cooking would be the same as that prescribed for other small fish such as sprats. CUPS.—There can be no necessity to explain the meaning of this term—it is but too well understood in all its various bearings. To be “ in one’s Cups ” is exceedingly significant, although perhaps not quite correctly defined. At one time the word Cup was habitually used to indicate a sense of joviality and good fellowship, and in some instances the fashion of Loving-cups, Grace-cups, Parting-cups, and other excuses for quaffing have been handed down to posterity. The following receipts are given as illustrative of these three, but numerous other492 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cups—continued. Cups will lie found under special headings, such as Champagne, Claret, and others: Loving-cup.—(1) Melt Jib. of loaf sugar and strain it into a jug that will hold 3qts., pour in a bottle of Scotch ale and 1 pint of sherry, stirring well all the time; put in a small piece of toasted bread, and four slices of lemon. Empty in a bottle of soda-water, grate a small quantity of nutmeg on the froth, and serve at once. (2) Rub off the thin rind of a lemon with lumps of sugar, put them into a jar with two lemons cut into thin slices, also the thin rind of one of them, 4oz. of loaf sugar, and J pint of ' brandy. Stir well until thoroughly mixed, and pour in lqt. of cold filtered water, 1 pint of Madeira wine, and a bottle of cider; grate in a nutmeg, and sweeten to taste, using either sugar or capillaire. Should the drink be required for summer, a small handful each of freshly-gathered balm and borage in flower should be put into the jar, stalks down- wards, and the liquor should be placed in the ice-tub for an hour before using. For winter use, ale may be substituted 1 for the cider, and it should then be drunk warm, not hot. (3) Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold spring-water into a saucepan, flavour with Joz. each of whole allspice, ground cloves, and cinnamon, and boil well over the fire until the liquor is reduced to one-third its original quantity. Strain it, and it is then ready for use, and may be bottled. A small portion of it mixed with a little sherry, Madeira, port, and claret, with lemon-juice, grated nutmeg, water, and sugar to taste, also any more spices that may be desired, will make a good bowl when served cold with ice. Oxford Grace-cup.—Rub off the rind of a lemon with lumps of sugar so as to obtain the zest; put them into a bowl, with the remainder of the lemon cut into thin slices, pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of strong but not bitter beer and 1 pint of sherry, add more sugar to sweeten, and grated nutmeg to flavour, and stir well until the whole of the sugar is dissolved. On the surface float four or five browned slices of toasted bread, let it remain for a couple of hours or more, strain, and it is ready for use. Parting-cup. — This should be made only a few minutes before serving. Well brown three slices of bread by toasting, put them into the bowl for serving, grate over nutmeg to taste, pour over a little more than half a bottle of sherry and lqt. of mild ale, stir well, add sufficient simple syrup to sweeten, and when upon the point of serving, add a bottle of soda-water. Clove or cinnamon for flavouring may be added if desired. CUP CAKES.—See Cakes. CUP PUDDING.—See Puddings. CURACOA. —A well-known liqueur, made in Amster- dam. Tlie ingredients necessary in the preparation of Curaooa are brandy, sugar, and orange-peel. The liqueur takes its name from tlie island of Curaooa, a possession of the Dutch in the West Indies, the best orange-peel in the world coming from that place. Hundreds of thousands of pounds of bitter-orange-peel are sent annually from Curaooa to Holland for the purpose of making this liqueur; the best being made at Amsterdam by the firm of Wynand Fockink. The French liqueur - makers dispute the superiority of the Dutch make. There are two kinds, white and brown, which, it is believed, differ only in respect of colour, the brown being- due to the addition of burnt sugar. Like all good productions, Curaooa is subject to imitation. (1) A very good Cura9oa for cooking may be prepared as | follows : Pour lqt. of water into a saucepan placed over the I fire, boil it up, add lib. of dark brown sugar-candy, a small piece at a time, let it dissolve, increase the heat of the j fire, and boil vigorously; turn the liquor into a shallow dish | and let it cool. Put 120 drops of oil of bitter-orange into a bottle with lqt. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof, dissolve it, and add it to the syrup when quite cold. Strain | through a filter into small bottles, and it is ready for use. The liquid will require to be filtered several times to obtain a clear bright colour. Curaqoa—continued. (2) Cut off the thin rind from one-and-a-half dozen Seville oranges, put it into a mortar, and pound well. Put 20oz. of white sugar-candy also into a mortar with loz. of ground cinnamon, and pound them; mix one pounded ingredient with the other. Put the whole into a bottle, pour in 3 pints of strong brandy, cork securely, and let it remain for three weeks, giving the bottle a shake every other day. Filter through flannel into small bottles, cork, and the Curaooa is ready for use. (3) Thinly pare the rind off six Seville oranges and one lemon, put it into a large glass retort, with a small piece of stick cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of coriander-seeds, and a very small quantity of saffron; then pour in 3 pints of pure spirit, cork the glass tightly, and keep it in a warm temperature. In about six weeks’ time strain the liquor through a piece of fine flannel until clear. Put 21b. of lump sugar in a sauce- pan with 3 pints of water, and boil until small transparent beads form on the top, then take it away from the fire and leave until cold. Mix the syrup and the spirit together, fill small bottles with it, and cork them tightly. Keep the Curagoa in a cool, dry place. (4) This is made by macerating the peel of forty-six oranges, 2 drachms of cinnamon, and 1 drachm of mace in lOqts. of spirits of wine (proof) poured into earthen or stone jars. It may be left for from three to five weeks, and should be occa- sionally shaken. It must now be filtered. Dissolve in this 71b. of sugar and add 3qts. of water. Give it a yellow colour by adding a little of an aqueous infusion of sunflower or French berries, and the tincture of saffron and turmeric. Bottle, and use. (5) Break ljlb. of rock candy very small, put it over the fire with just enough cold water to cover it, stir till melted, and let it come to the boil. Add the strained juice of four oranges, let it boil up once again, and then take it from the fire. Skim as it cools, and then put in the grated rind of four oranges, one dozen cloves, I teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 saltspoonful of g'rated nutmeg ; put it into a jar, together with 1 pint of the best brandy, cork it well, stand in a cool place for a fortnight, and shake well every day. After it has been in the jar a fortnight, strain it through flannel, bottle, and cork it well. Fig. 600. Curaooa Jelly. (6) Select a dozen thin-skinned Seville oranges, cut off the rind as finely as possible, put it into a jar with loz. of freshly-gathered orange-flowers, pour over a hot syrup made with 21b. of sugar, and cork up securely. Let it get cold, take out the cork, pour in Jgall. of over-proof spirit, and let it remain for a fortnight, giving it a gentle shake every now and then. Filter off into small bottles, cork and seal them, and use as required. A little saffron may be added should the colour not be deep enough. (7) Mix with a bottle of brandy 1 pint of capillaire, 1 table- spoonful of almond extract, a few drops of colouring, and sufficient orange extract to make it taste slightly bitter.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 493 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Curapoa—continued. Shake them all well together, and let the mixture stand till clear, then bottle it. This liqueur is improved by keeping. Curapoa Cordial.—Macerate for ten days 4 drachms of fresh Seville orange-peel cut thin, 30 grains of bruised cinnamon, and 20 grains of bruised cloves, in 2} pints of proof spirit. Filter the spirit, and add to it 2\ pints of equal parts of simple syrup and water. This will bear keeping, and vastly improves with age, provided it is well bottled, corked, and capsuled. Curapoa Cream Ice.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream and the strained juice of a lemon into a basin, and pour in 3 wine- glassfuls of Curapoa. Mix well, turn the mixture into the freezer, freeze, put it into a mould packed in ice, let it set firm, and it may he turned out at pleasure. Curapoa Jelly.—Mix with 1 pint of clear filtered jelly f wine- glassful of Curapoa and a little syrup, pour it into a jelly- mould previously packed in ice, and let it remain for three- quarters-of-an-hour. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, and turn the jelly out on a small round gum-paste stand ; surround it with angelica points and crystallised apricots and oranges (see Fig. 600). This forms a remarkably pretty and effective supper dish. Curapoa Sauce.—Boil pint of water and stir in 1 table- spoonful of cornflour and 1 teacupful of caster sugar, having previously mixed them, and add two or three slices of lemon. Simmer till clear, then stir in 1 teacupful of Curapoa, remove from the fire, and it is ready for use. This sauce should be of a rose colour. Essence of Curapoa.—Put in a magnum bottle lqt. of spirits of wine, the dried rind of six sweet and six bitter oranges, six lemons, R>z. of cinnamon, and loz. of coriander-seeds; cork the bottle tightly, and keep it in a warm place for ten days. Decant the essence into smaller bottles, with tight- fitting stoppers. CURATE’S PUDDING—See Puddings. CURDS (Fr. Caillebottes; Ger. Milcliklumpen; Ital. Latte rappreso; Sp. Cuajadas). — This term refers to the parts of milk which coagulate when a vegetable or mineral acid is added to it and heat applied. Other substances — notably rennet — produce the same effect. Curds are principally used for making cheese, but are also served fresh-made with or without the whey, and generally eaten with sugar or preserved fruit of some kind. The word “ Curds ” seems to lie derived from the Gaelic gruth; the Irish word for “ hard ” is cruadh, which would also seem to have some affinity to it. Technically, Curd is described as casein, the basis of cheese, charged with the oil globules of the milk which it has involved in its formation. The remaining liquor is called whey, and the two together form a very pleasing delicacy, which it is customary in some country places to supply to guests as a sort of bonne bouclie. The Curd strained from the whey, sweetened, and covered with rich cream, is a famous Devonshire dish, known as Devonshire Junket. See Cheese, Milk, and Rennet. Curd is prepared as follows : Pour lqt. of milk into a perfectly clean saucepan, and place it over a moderate fire until it begins to bubble; Curds—continued. then turn it into a basin. When cool, put 1 table-spoonful of old Curd in the milk and stir it well with the handle of a wooden spoon. Stand the basin on straw in a warm cupboard, cover it over with a thick piece of flannel or blanket, and leave it for twelve or fourteen hours. At the end of that time the Curd should be well set and the top covered with a thick layer of cream. It can be served in cups (see Fig. 601) or glasses for breakfast or luncheon. For wholesale purposes rennet is universally used ; but when the whey containing the infusion of the rennet is to be consumed, rennet should not be used, as it gives a displeasing taste to the whey. In Italy, an infusion of the gizzards of poultry is used, which rather adds to the delicate flavour, and is there styled Gallino, as referring to Gallina, a hen. The following receipts are useful applications of Curd to cooking purposes: Curd Blanc-mange.—Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire, and while the milk is boiling add four well-whisked eggs. When the milk curdles, add sugar to sweeten it and a little wine. Continue to boil until the Fig. 602. Cued Blanc-mange. whey is separated ; then pour it all in a colander and leave the Curd until it is cold and all the whey drained off. Turn it out and send it to table with custard poured round it (see Fig. 602). Curd Cakes.—Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin with the whites of two eggs and 1 pint of Curds, and beat them well; then mix in 4oz. of sugar, sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; beat the ingredients until well mixed. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until hot, then drop in small quantities of the mixture at a time, and fry them until lightly and equally browned. When cooked, place the cakes on paper to drain in front of the fire, then arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Curd Cheeses.—See Cheese. Curd Cheese-cakes. — (1) Warm fib. of butter, thoroughly incorporate lqt. of Curd with it, add also half-a-dozen crushed macaroons, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one. Sweeten to taste, sprinkle in a little salt and grated lemon-peel, and pound all well together in a mortar. Line some tartlet-pans with puff paste, put in the mixture, set them in the oven, and bake quickly. Several additions in the way of flavourings may be made with currants, candied-peel, noyeau, orange-, or rose-flower water, &c. (2) To lqt. of fresh milk add a little rennet to turn it, re- move the whey, and add about 2oz. of butter beaten to a cream. Squeeze it through a sieve and add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the same of washed and dried currants, the finely-cut peel of a lemon, twelve sweet and two hitter almonds blanched and pounded, and two well-whisked eggs. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill them three-parts full, and bake in a rather quick oven for twenty minutes. (3) Put the well-beaten whites of five eggs and the yolks of four into a saucepan with 2qts. of cream, and boil them gently ; drain off the whey, and mix with the Curd 4oz. of caster sugar, 4oz. of pounded biscuits, 4oz. of butter that has been beaten until creamy, 4oz. of well-washed currants, and a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg ; add also 1J494 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Curds—continued. Curds—continued. wineglassfuls of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Beat the mixture until all the ingredients are thoroughly- incorporated. Butter some large patty-pans, line them with short-paste, fill with the mixture, and bake. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve; or they can be left until cold. Curds and Cream.—(1) Make 3 pints of milk moderately warm, stir in 3 dessert-spoonfuls of rennet, let it stand till quite cold, take up the Curds with a skimmer, and lay them on a sieve. When the whey has drained, lay them on a dish, sprinkle powdered white sugar and grated nutmeg over them, pour cream over, and serve. (2) Add to each quart of milk 1 table-spoonful of rennet; when it curdles, take out the Curds, tie them loosely in a thin cloth, hang it up, and let it drain. When well drained put the Curds into a bowl and set this in very cold water, or stand in a refrigerator. When very cold, lay it in a deep dish, pour cream over, and serve. Grated nutmeg and sugar greatly improve this dish. Curds with Cream.—Dissolve a small quantity of gelatine; mix Curds with an equal quantity of cream, whisk them well with an egg-beater, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with any kind of essence, and then mix in the dissolved gelatine. Turn the cream into a dome-shaped mould, and pack it in pounded ice and salt for a few hours. When the cream or cheese is quite firm, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a fancy dish. The cheese may be garnished with croutons of jelly. Curd Fritters.—(1) Put lqt. of new milk over the fire, let it come to the boil, and then throw in 1 teaspoonful of rennet made liquid in 2 glasses of white wine ; take it from the fire and let it stand till well separated into Curds and whey. Drain off the whey and lay the Curds on a soft cloth for three or four minutes to dry thoroughly. Beat up the yolks of five eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, then whisk in the Curds, and continue to whisk till they are well mixed. Next beat in 2oz. of self-raising flour, a little grated nutmeg, and the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and form the whole into a smooth thickish batter. Fry quickly in table-spoonfuls in butter. Lay them on a warm sieve to drain; then arrange on a napkin on a hot dish, dredge powdered sugar over them, and serve hot with jelly sauce. (2) Pass 1 pint of Curds through a sieve, and add the whites of two and the yolks of four eggs, well whisked, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and a little ground cinnamon. Mix all together, drop the batter into a frying-pan containing plenty of boiling lard, and fry until they are a light brown : then drain, and serve very hot. Curd Pudding's.—(1) Boil a stick of cinnamon in lqt. of fresh milk, then take the cinnamon out and stir into the milk 1 table-spoonful of white wine and eight well-beaten eggs; let it boil up again and strain it through a sieve. Put the Curds in a bowl, beat into it by degrees loz. of butter, enough finely-powdered white sugar to sweeten, and 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; put it into a mould and let it stand in a cold place for a few hours. When turned out, a sauce of white wine, cream, and sugar may be poured over it. (2) Warm 3oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then mix in gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, 3oz. of caster sugar, and 3oz. of Curds that have been rubbed till smooth. Blanch and pound 4 table-spoonfuls of almonds, and mix them with the above ingredients ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it until firm. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over it, and serve. (3) Put igall. of milk into a bowl with a little rennet to turn it, pour the whole on to a sieve, press out the whey, and rub the Curd through into a basin. Mix in the crumb of a small roll, 4oz. of warm butter, caster sugar to sweeten, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and 1 wineglassful of white wine mixed up with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Three-parts fill some small buttered pans with the mixture, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the puddings out when done, stick a few small pieces of blanched almonds and orange-peel on the tops, dredge over a little caster sugar, and serve with a sauceboatful of any rich sweet sauce. Curd Puffs. —Take lqt. of milk and add sufficient rennet to curdle it: this should produce 3oz. of Curd. Scald it and drain quite dry. Put 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with loz. of butter, boil it, add 2oz. of flour, and mix to a paste, stirring over the fire for a few minutes. Take it off the fire and add the Curd and 2oz. of finely-grated cheese. Stir thoroughly, Fig. 603. Curd Puffs. and mix in three eggs, one at a time, well beating the mixture upon each addition. It may be baked either in small patty- pans lined with a thin tart-paste, in a slow oven, or the paste may be cut into thin flats, and 1 table-spoonful of the mixture put in the centre, pinched up at the sides like a cocked hat (see Fig. 603), and baked on a baking-sheet in a slack oven. Curd Soup.— This is a favourite Turkish dish. Put 2|lb. of crumbs of French rolls into a mortar with fib. of Curd, and pound them well; then leave the mixture for twelve hours. If pounded over-night, it can be used in the morning. Put the pounded mixture into a saucepan, pour in gradually the requisite quantity of clear stock, beating it well with a wooden spoon all the time. Put it over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for an hour. Cut some slices of bread into small squares, and fry them in butter till browned. Mix 1 teacupful of cream, or 4 pint of milk, with the soup, and boil it up again ; then turn it into a tureen, and serve with the fried bread on a plate. CURING.—Under this heading salting, drying, and smoking are correctly included as parts of the entire process of curing; hut as salting, or pickling, is described under its own specific headings, or the names of the foods thus treated, such as Bacon, Beef, Fish, &c., it will not be necessary to repeat them. Attention is here required principally for that part of the curing process which gives such wonderful flavours to dried meats, and is known as Smoking. For this purpose a room or chamber of some kind is required, in which the articles to be smoked are hung, and into which smoke of burning wood is conveyed. The usual smoke-house is a sort of hut about 12ft. square, having walls 7ft. high and a hole in the roof; joists are laid across in the inside, upon which to hang the articles to be smoked. The floor is covered 5in. or 6m. deep with sawdust, which is kindled, producing a good deal of smoke with very little flame. Such a smoke-house as this would be very effective for wholesale purposes ; but the requirements of a family or single institution would not exceed more than could be smoked by a very small apparatus. For such a purpose the following is recommended as being efficient and simple. The sectional illustration (Fig. 604) explains the con- trivance so thoroughly that very little description is necessary. The smoke-chamber (a) is a large barrel with both ends knocked out, and the top covered by a few boards fastened together, a piece of old oilcloth, tarpaulin, sacking, or other coarse canvas. From the centre of the barrel a short trench (b) with a downward inclination is cut, about Gin. wide, into which is dropped a length of drain- or stove-pipe, opening at the upper end into the smoke-chamber, and at the other end into a pit495 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Curing—continued. or recess (c) made sufficiently large to loosely hold a pan some ISin. or 2ft. in diameter. The pipe trench is then filled in, and what earth is to spare can be packed round the base of the barrel. The pit (c) is covered with an iron or wooden lid (d), which should also be packed down when the apparatus is in action. The mode of working is as follows: Hang the hams, bacon, fish, tongues, or whatever it may be desired to smoke, on sticks laid across the top of the barrel, and cover over the top as tightly as possible. When the barrel or smoke-chamber is stocked, put into the pit (c) a pan of burning wood chips, chopped straw, or dry sawdust, or any or all together. Put on the lid of the pit, and secure it all round the edges as soon as the fuel is well alight. The smoke generated will pass along the pipe to the barrel, and soon be very dense, with the advantage also of being quite cool. This device is the invention of a Mr. Brooks, of New York, who claims for it a further advantage beyond that of ordinary smoke-houses, which is, that should the string that ties up a ham or anything else give way, the article will fall upon the ground and not into a smouldering fire, so that it remains unin- jured. Although this is apparently a somewhat remote advantage, it is worth keeping in remembrance, as such accidents are by no means of rare occurrence in larger concerns. In some farm-houses where wood is burnt in the kitchens, hams and bacon are sometimes smoked by Fig. 604. Smoking Apparatus for Home Use. hanging them up the chimney; but this arrangement does not give very satisfactory results, the smoke passing by too rapidly, often requiring the meat to be scored deeply with a sharp knife before it allows the smoke to penetrate. This scoring process is technically termed “ bucaning.” Whatever may be the apparatus employed, it must be borne in mind that the quality of the wood has great influence upon the smell and taste of the smoke-dried meat, smoke from beech-wood and oak being preferable to fir and larch. The twigs and berries of juniper, sprays of rosemary, peppermint, and other aromatics are sometimes added for the purpose of imparting peculiar flavours, cloves and allspice being especially esteemed; but the best of all smoke for bacon and hams is that from Irish peat. The smoke of peat gives a peculiar flavour which is much esteemed by epicures; it requires great attention and care in the process, and necessitates the use of specially arranged smoke-houses. Ordinary smoke- houses are two or three storeys high, the fire being kindled in the lowest, which is generally below ground. Bacon is hung in the storey above, the smoke passing through a perforated floor and cooling on its road. "Any soot formed is retained in the first chamber before it passes through to the bacon. In the storey above the bacon it is customary to hang hams, and in the storey above that sausages and fish are smoked, the entire process taking about six weeks to complete. Curing—continued. Before smoking, all goods should be carefully salted and dried, the pickle and mode of application depending upon the kind of articles to be cured. These processes are described under the name of the particular article treated. Cold weather is reckoned to be the best time for smoking, as the flavours appear to penetrate the flesh more readily. CURLY CRESS.—The common name for Garden Cress (Lepidium sativum); sometimes also known as Pepper Grass. The curly leaves make an excellent garnish or salad. CURRANTS.-—There are two distinct kinds of fruit known by this name ; the first being the sweet-acid berries of the Ribes, a tribe to which gooseberries belong ; and the second, the dried fruit of the Corinth grape, better known as grocers’ Currants. From these latter it is prob- able that the word Currant is derived, being merely a corruption of Corinth. Some writers assert that Currant is an extension of the old Anglo-Saxon word car—signi- fying red. This would scarcely apply to black Currants, although it might to the white, they being a variety of the red; other authorities have taken much trouble to show that this origin of the word is improbable. Opinion naturally inclines towards the British origin, regarding grocers’ “ Currants ” as a convenient corruption, because the Ribes are indigenous to Great Britain, and will only flourish in Northern Europe. In France they are known as red and white “gooseberries” (groseilles), the black Currant rejoicing in the name of Cassis, and the grocers’ Currants in Raisins de Corinthe. In Germany the two kinds are distinguished by Johannisbeeren, and Korintlien; and in Italy they are Ribes and Sparrow-grapes respec- tively. Black Currants. — These are described as the fruit of the Ribes nigrum, being black, strong-flavoured, aperient, and tonic, and in addition to these medicinal properties it is just possible that others have been dis- covered or imagined. In cookery and confectionery Black Currants hold an important position, due in a great measure to the richness of the juice and colour. The receipts given (see also Cassis) will be found good. The following are amongst the best in cultivation : Black Naples, large and good, but, being- early in leaf, the fruit is sometimes liable to suffer from spring frosts; an old variety. Lee’s Prolific, comparatively new, the bunches large, and the berries even larger than Black Naples, very sweet, and abundantly produced. Ogden's Black Grape, large and fine, very prolific. Sweet-fruited, a small sort, but little known. Black-Currant Cordial. Pick clean lqt. of Black Currants, put them into a large basin, and pour over lqt. of whisky ; add the grated rind of one lemon and squeeze in the juice. Bruise loz. of whole ginger and put it in also. Cover over the basin and keep it standing in a cool place for ten days, then strain the liquor through a clean cloth. Measure it, put it in a preserving-pan, add to each pint lib. of loaf sugar, put the pan on the fire or stove, and stir till the sugar is quite dissolved: remove the pan from the fire and let the cordial cool. When it is quite cold, bottle and cork securely. Black-Currant Cream Ice.—Pick the stalks off V pint of ripe Black Currants, stir and mash them over the fire for five minutes, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix i- pint of syrup, at 32deg., and i pint of thick cream with the puree. When well beaten together, turn the mixture into a freezer, and work till stiff. Put the cream in a fluted mould, close it, pack in ice, and leave till frozen; then dip the mould in lukewarm water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and decorate with crystallised cherries, candied angelica cut into points, and garnish round the dish with preserved apples and pears, or other fruit. Surmount the whole with an ornamental attelette (see Fig. 605), and set back in the ice-chest to keep cold until wanted. This is reckoned to be one of the finest-flavoured and handsomest sweets that can be prepared.496 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, [Jtensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. Black-Currant Drink.— Put teacupful of Black-Currant jam into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of water, and simmer by the side of the fire, stirring- frequently. Strain the liquor, and serve it either hot or cold as may he required. If wanted for allaying thirst, it is best when cold. Black-Currant Drops.—Press the Currants through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan, and boil them till reduced to one-third their original bulk; measure the pulp, and for every pound mix with it fib. of caster sugar. Butter some sheets of tin ; put the mixture in a biscuit-forcer, squeeze it through, cutting it off in drops about the size of a shilling, letting them fall on the tins; place the tins in a screen of a moderate heat and dry the drops for ten minutes. Remove them from the tins with the blade of a knife, put them on a fine wire sieve, leave them till quite dry, and pack in stoppered glass bottles. Black-Currant Fool.—Pick off the stalks from the Currants, put them in a lined pan with crushed loaf sugar to sweeten, and stir over the fire till dissolved. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, return it to the pan, and boil quickly till reduced to the consistency of thick cream. Leave the fool till cold, turn it into a glass dish, and serve with whipped cream. Black-Currant Gin.-—(1) Out of a pint bottle of gin take about 1 wineglassful, fill up with an equal quantity of bruised Black Currants, two Currant-leaves, and three lumps of sugar. Cork the bottle, seal, and leave for a month before using. (2) Mix together 2qts. each of 33deg. under-proof gin and syrup, then add 1 fluid ounce of essential essence of Black Currants, and the liqueur is ready for immediate use; or it may be bottled. Black-Currant Jam.—Pick the Currants from the stalks, seeing that they are quite clean and thoroughly ripe. They ought to be gathered in dry weather. Put them into a preserving- pan with powdered white sugar in the proportion of lib. of sugar to lib. of Currants. Set the pan over the fire and boil, stirring occasionally to pre- vent burning; boil for half-an-hour, and take off the scum as it rises. Then take the pan from the fire, and when the jam has cooled a little, put it into pots. When quite cold, lay over the pots pieces of white paper soaked in brandy, and cover so as to keep them air-tight. Black-Currant Jelly.- Pick the Currants and pass them through a cane sieve, thus obtaining all the juice. Put the juice in a pre- serving-pan, boil it up, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Weigh, return it to the preserving-pan, and for every 31b. put in 211b. of sugar that has been boiled down to the strong blow degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; skim the liquor and boil it quickly till reduced to a jelly that will Currants—continued drop from the spoon in a sort of congealed state, then turn it into small glass jars (see Fig. 606). Cut some round pieces of white paper that will fit inside the jars, dip them in brandy, and lay one carefully in each jar. Soak some bullock’s bladder in water till it becomes elastic and can be easily stretched, then fit a small piece of it tightly over each jar, and tie it firmly round the edges with some strong twine. Keep the jars of jelly in a dry store cupboard till wanted. Black-Currant Jelly Sauce. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with one finely-chopped onion and 2oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until browned ; then pour in f pint of clear gravy, and add a bay-leaf, a small piece of lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls of Black-Currant jelly, 1 table-spoonful of crushed juniper-berries, 1 wineglassful of red wine, and 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and chilli vinegar. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, stir it over the fire, and boil for eight or ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve before serving. Black-Currant Jujubes. -Select ripe fruit, put them (without removing the stalks) into a preserving-pan on the fire, and bruise them with a wooden spoon until the juice flows freely. Strain through a fine sieve, squeezing the fruit well to get as much juice out as possible, and return it to the pan, adding 4oz. of brown sugar to every pint. Place the pan on the fire, boil slowly for forty-five minutes, and just before taking it off add foz. of dissolved isinglass to every quart of juice. When done, pour it into plates to about fin. in thickness, put them in the screen before the fire to dry for three or four days, cut them into squares, and pack in layers in boxes with thin paper between. Black-Currant Liqueur.— (1) Put some Black Currants and an equal quantity of their leaves in a large jar, cover over with rectified spirits of wine, and let them remain for from six to eight weeks. Pass the liquor through a flannel bag without squeezing the fruit. Put lib. of sugar to every quart of fruit into a pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, boil, and while still hot, add it to the liquor. Bottle, and it is then ready for use. (2) Bruise lqt. of Black Currants, put them into a large bottle with lflb. of sugar candy broken into small pieces, and pour in 3 pints of proof spirit. Cork the bottle and stand it in a warm place. Shake the liqueur occasionally and leave for two months; at the end of that time filter it through flannel or a jelly-bag. Pour the liqueur into small bottles, cork, and put away for use. (3) Put 2qts. of ripe Black Currants in a saucepan with 3 pints of water and about f table-spoonful of bruised cloves, and boil for half-an-hour; strain the liquor through a hair sieve into another saucepan, mix with it 31b. of loaf sugar, and boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, skimming off the scum as it rises. Move the pan from the fire when sufficiently boiled, leave it until nearly cold, and filter through a jelly- bag. Mix 3qts. of proof spirit with the liquor, bottle, cork tightly, and put away in a cool dry cupboard until wanted. Black-Currant Lozenges. -Pick the Currants, put them in a pan, and stir them over the fire till reduced to a pulp ; then press through a fine hair sieve. To every 31b. of the pulp add 71b. of crushed preserving-sugar, fib. of Turkey gum, and loz. of tartaric acid. Sift coarsely-powdered loaf sugar on a table, roll the paste when mixed out on it, and cut the lozenges the desired shape with a sharp-pointed knife. Keep them in tightly-corked bottles. Black-Currant Paste.—Pick off the stalks from some Currants, pass them through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan to remove the seeds, stir the puree over the fire till reduced to a stiff pulpy paste, and then take the pan from the fire. Weigh the pulp, and for every pound put in a sugar-boiler lib. of crushed loaf sugar; clarify it and boil it to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), mix in the Currant paste, and boil it up again. Pour the paste on tins, levelling it over the surface with the blade of a knife. Put the tins in a warm temperature for a day to dry the paste. Cut the paste into long strips about fin. in widtb, and tie the strips into knots or shape them in rings; or, if preferred, the paste can be cut into leaves or any other fancy shapes. Pack them in cardboard boxes, between sheets of white paper. Black-Currant Pastille Drops.—Free the Currants from stalks and any dead leaves that may be sticking to them, put Fig. 606. Black-Currant Jelly in Glass Jar.497 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. them into a preserving-pan, stir over the fire until boiling, then strain and press the juice from them through a silk sieve. For every ounce of juice allow Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and for every pound of sugar allow about loz. of water. Mix all together in a sugar-boiler and place over a slow fire. When the sugar begins to boil at the bottom of the pan, stir the whole gently with a wooden spoon for two minutes, then move the pan from the fire, still stirring the contents. Pour the mixture from the lip of the pan, cutting it off into small drops as it runs out with a piece of curved wire held in the right hand. Sheets of paper should be placed ready to catch the drops as they fall. Leave them until firm, then turn the paper quickly upside down, and with a paste-brush clipped in a little water slightly moisten the backs of the drops; next loosen them from the paper with the point of a knife, letting them fall on to a wire sieve. Shake the sieve backwards and forwards over a rather cool stove to dry up all the moisture. Keep the pastilles in a dry place, packed in boxes between sheets of white paper, or else keep them in tightly-stoppered glass jars. Black-Currant Ratafia Liqueur.—Put 41b. of ripe Black Currants into a jar, crush them, and pour over Jgall. of brandy at 22deg. strength; add a little lemon-zest and cinnamon, and a few leaves of the fruit; tie a piece of bladder over the mouth of the jar, set it in the open air where the sun can get at it, and let it remain for five or six weeks. Drain off the liquor, filter it, and mix in 41b. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Let it stand until the sugar is dissolved, then bottle, and cork securely; in about six months’ time it will be fit for use. Black-Currant-and-Rhubarb Jam. — Cut the tops and stalks off 4qts. of Black Currants. Cut about fifteen stalks of rhubarb into small lengths, put them in a preserving-pan with sufficient cold water to cover, and boil for twenty minutes. At the end of that time, pass the fruit and liquor through a fine hair sieve, pressing to extract as much of the juice as possible. Put the juice back into the preserving-pan with 101b. of coarsely-crushed lump sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden, spoon until boiling; then put in the Currants, continue stirring, and boil slowly for ten minutes, removing- the scum as it rises. Bemove the pan from the fire, stir well for a few minutes, turn it into jars, and leave until cold. Cut as many rounds of white paper as there are jars, dip them in brandy, and put one in each jar. Cover with parchment, tying them firmly round, and store in a dry cupboard until wanted. Black-Currant Vinegfar.—In making this vinegar, care must be taken that the fruit is ripe and sound, and the leaves young and tender. Put lqt. of the fruit into a preserving-pan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the leaves, and bring them to the boil, stirring well with a wooden spoon to crush the fruit; pass the liquor through a jelly-bag back into the pan, squeezing out as much of the juice as possible; add 1 Alb. of sugar to each quart of juice, stir over the fire until it melts, skim well, putting the skimmings on a sieve to drain, and return the liquor that runs from them to the pan. Let the liquor get cold, add 3 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar to each quart of syrup, and it is ready for use; if it is intended to be kept for any length of time, mix in over-proof spirit in the proportion of 1 pint to lgall. of the vinegar. Bottle, cork, and seal. Black-Currant Water Ice.—Empty a pot of Black-Currant jam into a basin, mix in gradually with it 1 teacupful of syrup and a small quantity of water, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and stir the ingredients irntil well mixed. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot, and work it till frozen, scraping it occasionally from the sides with a spatula or wooden spoon. Turn the mixture into a mould, close it, and pack it in pounded ice for two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould in lukewarm water, wipe it, and turn the ice out on to a fancy dish. Black-Currant Wine.—To every gallon of Black-Currant juice add an equal quantity of cold water and 3Jlb. of moist sugar. Put it into a cask, reserving some of the liquor for filling up. Put the cask in a warm, dry place, and the liquor will ferment of itself. When the fermentation is over, skim off the refuse, and fill up the cask with the reserved liquor. When this has ceased working, pour in lqt. of brandy to Cgalls. of the wine. Bung it up close for eight or nine months, and bottle it off when clear. Run the sediment through a jelly-bag until it also is clear, bottle it, and keep a year before using. Currants—continued. Bottled Black Currants.—Proceed as for Bottled Red Currants, boiling for fifteen minutes. Preserved Pulp of Black Currants.—Put 121b. of very ripe fruit into a basin with lqt. of water. Squeeze them with the hand until they are all broken, and only the stalks remain in the hand. Pour the liquor and pulp into a presea;ving-pan on the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring continually. Rub the whole through a fine sieve with a wooden spoon into an earthen pan, ascertain the weight, and to every pound add Jib. of caster sugar. Mix well, and when cool, bottle, cork, and tie down. Red Currants. — The fruit of the Ribes rubrum (see Fig, 607), a very hardy shrub which grows freely in any part of the British Isles and some parts of the Continent. Gerard, in his famous works on mediaeval botany, writes of them : “We have also in London gardens another sort of gooseberry altogether, without prickles, whose fruit is very small, lesser by much than the common kind, but of a perfect red colour, wherein it differeth from the rest of its kind.” But it is very much to be questioned if the Currant-bush was much better than a wild plant until the Dutch took it into favour and set us an example in its cultivation. Of the best sorts known, the following are mentioned by Nicholson in the “ Dictionary of Gardening ” : Cherry, a large, deep red, early Currant; Houghton Seed- ling, a free-fruiting late variety, berries deep red, and very acid; Knight’s Large Red, berries bright red, bunches very large ; La Fertile, very prolific, large and good; La Hative, large and early; Mammoth, one of the largest and best; Raby Castle, bunches long and large, berries bright red, with a sharp acidity; Red Champagne, pale pink or flesh-colour variety, midway in flavour between the red and white sorts; Red Dutch, one of the best, and probably the one most cultivated, it ripens early, the berries are large, juicy, and of excellent quality; Warner’s Grape, a good variety, with large bunches and berries. Bottled Red Currants.—Remove the stalks from some barely ripe Currants of the red kind, put them into bottles, packing them in very closely, fill up the bottles with 22deg. syrup (see Sugar-boiling), place them in a pan with hot water, and let their contents boil for ten minutes. Take the bottles out of the water, cork them down, let them get cold, and they are ready for storing. Compote of Red Currants.—Remove the stalks from lib. of ripe Red Currants, and put them into a basin with Jib. of caster sugar. Press the Currants with a wooden spoon, and when the sugar has partly dissolved in the juice, pour the whole into a pan and boil up, turning into a compote-dish as soon as cool. Leave it for two hours, when, if it has been 2 8498 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes,'Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see wider their special heads. Currants—continued. properly worked, it will set to a jelly and then be ready for use. Green-Currant Jam.—Gather the required quantity of green Currants, of the red kind, pick off the stalks, put the Currants in a preserving-pan, and place them over a gentle fire to draw out the juice. Add fib. of crushed loaf sugar for every pound of the fruit, and boil quickly for twenty or twenty-five minutes, stirring and skimming occasionally. When ready, turn the preserve into jars, leave it until cool, lay over rounds of white paper soaked in brandy, cover over with parchment, and tie down. Preserved Pulp of Red Currants.—Take 121b. of Red Currants and 41b. of very ripe raspberries, and mash them with the hand in a large basin or bowl, adding lqt. of water. The stalks need not previously be removed, as by squeezing the fruit in the hand the stalks will remain in it, and must be thrown away, for if they remain they give an acid flavour. Pass the fruit through a strainer into a stewpan, squeezing it well so as to get out all the juice, weigh it, and to every pound add ^lb. of caster sugar. Stir well with a spoon until the sugar and fruit-pulp are thoroughly incorporated. Place the pan on the fire, boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, take it off, and pour the fruit into warmed bottles. Cork well, and tie down with string or wire. Red-Currant-and-Cherry Wine. — Bruise 31b. of Red Currants and 71b. of black or wild cherries, and put them into a cask with a few broken cherry-stones. Put jib. of juniper-berries into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, together with 31b. of honey and 21b. of grated un- peeled apples, and boil them well; turn the whole into a cask, let the liquor ferment, pour off through a tap at the bottom of the cask, and add it to the cherries and Currants in the other cask ; pour over these 4galls. of water, previously boiled and cooled, let the liquor ferment again, draw' it off into another cask, and add 71b. of sugar. When all the fermentation has ceased, which will take nine or ten days, add 2oz. of soaked and dissolved gelatine, also a little finings, bung up securely, and in three months it will be ready for use. Red-Currant Drops.—Put fib. of coarsely-sifted broken loaf sugar into a basin, and add sufficient Red-Currant juice and water in equal parts to make it into a stiff paste. Place it in a small sugar-boiler on the fire, and stir continually until it boils ; then pour it out, letting it drop slowly on to a baking- sheet, and when the drops are quite cold, dry them in a hot closet on a sieve, and they are ready for use. Red-Currant Pool.—(1) Pick the stalks off 2 pints of Red Currants, put them in a stewpan with 1 pint of water sweetened with crushed loaf sugar, and boil gently until cooked. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a bowl, and set it in a cool place for an hour or two. Cut one or two small rolls into thin slices, arrange them on a baking-dish, dredge over -with sugar, and put them in the oven until delicately browned and glazed. Mix 1 pint of red wine with the Currant liquor, add more sugar if required, put in the glazed slices of bread, and serve. (2) Select ripe Red Currants, remove the stalks, leaves, and any unsound fruit, measure them, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of pounded white sugar to every pint of fruit; put them into a stewpan, stew gently for half-an-hour, then pass the fool through a sieve, and let it cool. While still lukewarm mix some finely-grated breadcrumbs and milk, cream, or custard with it. Serve quite cold. Red-Currant Gin.—Put into a preserving-pan 71b. of Red Currants, freed of stalks, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil for a few minutes. Then strain the liquor through a flannel bag back into the pan, add 71b. of sugar, and stir well with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved. Place the pan on a gas-stove, add the whites and shells of two eggs to clarify the liquor, bring it to the boil, turn out the gas, and let the pan remain for about four minutes without touching it. Strain through a flannel or jelly-bag, let it get cold, and add to it lgall. of unsweetened gin; mix thoroughly, and bottle for use. Should the colour of the liqueur not be deep enough, a very little cochineal may be added. Red-Currant Jam.—Take some ripe Red Currants, pick off their stalks, weigh them, and to every pound of Currants Currants—continued. allow lib. of sugar. Put the Currants and sugar into a preserving-pan on the stove, over not too hot a fire, stirring now and then till it boils ; then let it boil for ten minutes, taking off the scum as fast as it rises. Let the jam cool a little, put it into jars, cover when quite cold, and pack away for future use. Red-Currant Jelly.— (1) Choose fine large Red Currants, pick free of stalks, put them into a preserving-pan over a moderate fire, and break them with a wooden spoon till the juice is extracted; then strain through a jelly-bag, and to every breakfast-cupful of juice add Mb. of sugar. Put both juice and sugar into a preserving-pan, set it on the stove, and let it gradually come to the boil. Then boil for ten minutes, and after cooling it a little put it into glasses or moulds, and when quite cold turn out. (2) Pick 161b. of not over-ripe Red Currants, put them in a copper basin on the hot stove, and begin stirring them im- mediately from the bottom, using a wooden spatula; when they begin to scald, pour them into a tub, and with a pounder mash them thoroughly. Strain through a jelly-bag back into the copper basin, adding to the juice 71b. of preserving-sugar. Return the basin to the fire, and boil until the juice is reduced to about half the original quantity, then dip in a skimmer, lift it up, and feel the jelly with the two forefingers; close them and open them slowly: if the jelly is gummy and sticky, it is done ; if not, cook for a few minutes longer. Take it from the fire, and pour a little into each of the glass jars, as this will prevent them cracking, afterwards fill them up. When thoroughly cold, cover them, tie down tightly, and put in a cool closet. This jelly will keep good for quite two years. Red-Currant Jelly Cakes.—Prepare about lib. of puff paste of four turns, roll it out to about ^in. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a cutter 3in. in diameter, moisten these rounds, and fold them over into three-cornered cakes, pressing the folds down gently. Put them on a buttered baking-sheet, keeping them about 2in. apart. Brush over with egg and bake in a quick oven. Take them out, dust over with caster sugar, set in the oven to glaze, mount them with Red-Currant jelly, and serve tastefully arranged on a dish (see Fig. 608). Red-Currant Jelly and Cream (Floating1 Islands).— Sweeten lqt. of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, and whip it to a stiff froth, then turn it into a shallow glass dish. Put the whites of two eggs in a basin, beat them to a froth, then put in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of Red-Currant jelly, and continue beating until well mixed and thick. Drop this mixture in table-spoonfuls into the cream, keeping the lumps a little apart. Serve as soon as possible. Red-Currant Jelly Omelet.—Slightly beat 3 eggs with a little less than 1 teacupful of milk; put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, make it just warm, but not hot, then pour in the batter and cook it, tossing the pan frequently. Put a long roll of Red-Currant jelly down the centre of the omelet, and turn in the edges to cover it. Slip the omelet on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, mark it across in slanting bars by touching the sugar with a red-hot wire, and serve. Red-Currant Jelly Sauce.—Put V teacupful of Red-Currant jelly into a small saucepan with teacupful of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Stir the sauce over the fire until the jelly has dis- solved, then add a few drops of cochineal, just sufficient to tinge, and a small quantity of powdered mace. The sauce is then ready for serving.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 499 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. Bed-Currant Jelly Sauce for Game. — (1) Put 3 table- spoonfuls of butter into a stewpan with a finely-chopped onion, and brown it; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, a sprig of celery, and a bay-leaf, and stir until these also begin to brown ; then add 1 pint of good stock, and simmer on the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Pass the sauce through a strainer back into the pan, skim off the fat, add 1 teacupful of Red-Currant jelly, and stir over the fire until it is melted. It is then ready for use. (2) A good sauce for game, especially venison, can be made by smoothly blending 1 table-spoonful of dry mustard with i jelly-glassful of Red-Currant jelly. Keep the sauce in a cool place until it is wanted for the table. Bed-Currant Julep.—In a large glass mix 1 wineglassful of Red-Currant syrup, a little bilberry syrup, and 1 wineglassful of lemon syrup ; fill up the glass with ice, put a little mint and a few red and white Currants on top, sprinkle over powdered loaf sugar, and drink through straws. Bed-Currant Marmalade.—Pick the stalks off 2qts. of ripe Red Currants, put them in a preserving-pan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of raspberry-juice, and boil them gently. When the Currants begin to break, mix 1 pint of syrup boiled to the candying degree (see Syrups) with them, and boil the whole until reduced to a thick pulp. Skim the marmalade, flavour with rose-water, and turn it into jars. When the marmalade is cold, cover the jars with brandied papers, then with parch- ment, and tie down tightly. Keep them in a cool dry cup- board. Bed-Currant Pain, or Cake, or Cheese.—Mash a few pounds of Red Currants, using a wooden spoon, pass them through a fine sieve into a basin, sweeten to taste with sugar, add the juice of two or three oranges, and sufficient dissolved 1 and clarified gelatine to stiffen the mixture. Let it remain for ten or twelve minutes, strain through a fine sieve into a pan, stir well on the ice until it is as thick as required, pour it into a mould coated with jelly, pack it in ice for an hour, turn it out carefully on to a cold dish, and serve. Bed-Currant Paste.—Pick 61b. of fine ripe Red Currants free from stalks, bruise them in a basin, and add to them lib. of hulled red raspberries. Squeeze the juice from the fruit and strain it through a silk sieve. Clarify and boil 71b. of sugar to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). When it has arrived at this state, pour the fruit-juice into it, put it over a slow fire, and stir constantly until it becomes so clear that the bottom of the pan can be seen through it. Then remove it at once from the fire and put into tin moulds placed on slates or copper sheets. Smooth the surfaces with the blade of a knife, dredge powdered white sugar over, put them in a stove, and let them remain for twelve hours or so. Turn the paste in the moulds and dredge them again with powdered white sugar. Put them back in the stove and again let them remain twelve hours. Take the paste out of the moulds, put it in boxes lined with white paper, cover over with more white paper, and keep it in a dry place. Bed-Currant Pastilles.—Squeeze some Red Currants through a sieve. Put lib. of powdered white sugar on a plate, add the Currant-juice to it till it makes a paste as clear and thick as desired, cut into shapes, let them dry, and they are ready for use. Bed-Currant Preserve. -Take 41b. of Red Currants, pick off the stalks, and put them into a pan over the fire to dry; next press them through a sieve, and put them back again over the fire, stirring constantly until the liquor becomes so clear that the bottom of the pan can be seen. Have 61b. of sugar melted over the fire and boiled to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), when if the finger be dipped in cold water and then instantly into the boiling sugar and back again directly into the cold water, the sugar will roll from the finger in a little ball, and when cold will crumble between the fingers, and if bitten will stick to the teeth. When the sugar is boiled to this state, pour it over the Currants and keep stirring them. In a short time remove the pan from the fire, but continue stirring till the liquor bubbles, then turn it into moulds. Bed-Currant Pudding1 (Wiltshire Style).—Beat well three eggs and mix 1 pint of milk with them; throw in 1 saltspoonful of salt and stir till dissolved. Then dredge and mix in as Currants—continued. much flour as will make a stiff batter, beat for five minutes, and stir in gently 1 heaped teacupful of Red Currants freed from stalks. Dip a cloth into boiling- Jwater, flour it well, tie the pudding in it, and boil for two hours. Take off the cloth, put the pudding on a hot flat dish, cut it into slices about lin. thick, slightly separate the slices, mask them with thin slices of butter and a little brown sugar, and serve hot. See Fig. 609. Bed-Currant-and-Easpberry or Cherry Tart.—Put lib. of brown sugar to every pound of Currants and raspberries, or Currants and cherries, taken in equal proportions, and mix them well. In the meantime, make a crust with jib. of sifted and dried flour, 2oz. or 3oz. of butter or lard, and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar. When mixed add the yolk of an egg and 1 teaspoonful of water. Work the paste on a well- floured board with the hand for a minute or two, then roll it out and line a tart- or pie-dish with it. Arrange the fruit on the paste, put the dish in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of an- hour, then cover it over with a piece of well-buttered paper, and when the fruit is cooked and the crust is quite done in the centre, remove from the oven and serve. Bed-Currant-and-Easpberry Paste Drops.—Boil and pass through a fine sieve so as to have lib. each of the pulp of Red Currants and raspberries, put them into a preserving- pan, and add lib. of crushed preserving-sugar. Stir well, set the pan on a brisk fire, and boil until the paste is reduced to that thickness that by pulling a spoon or knife across the bottom of the pan it is shown plainly. Take it off the fire and pour out the mixture in drops about l|in. in diameter on to a baking-sheet by means of a spouted can or small sugar-boiler. Put the drops in the screen or the oven with the door open for an hour or so until they are quite dry, then take a knife or spatula, remove them from the sheet, and put away in boxes with paper between them. Bed-Currant-and-Easpberry Pudding-.—Pick off the stalks from lib. of Red Currants, and pick and hull lib. of rasp- berries. Mix with them lib of powdered sugar. Cut some slices of bread without crust; fill a pudding-dish with them, spreading the layers thickly with the fruit and sug-ar, and having a very thick layer of fruit on top. Bake for one hour, and serve. Bed-Currant-and-Baspberry Water.—Pour 1 pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) into 1 pint of the juice of Red Currants and raspberries previously squeezed through a flannel bag, and add lqt. of water. A very refreshing drink with ice. Bed-Currant Sauce.—Boil a handful of Red Currants in water for a few minutes, add loz. of butter, four cloves, 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and 1 wineglassful of port wine; stir till it boils, and serve very hot. One ounce of grocers’ Currants are sometimes used instead of Red Currants in making this sauce. Bed-Currant Shrub.— (1) Take 3qts. of ripe Red Currants, pick them free from stalks, and put them into a jar in a large saucepan of water on the stove; let it gradually heat till the juice comes from the Currants. This will take at least an hour. Squeeze the Currants in a straining-cloth so as to get out all the juice, then measure it; put it into a preserving-pan, and to each pint add 6oz. of sugar; stir the sugar in the warm juice till it is thoroughly melted, remove from the stove, and let it cool; when quite cold, stir in 1 pint of Jamaica rum to every pint of juice. Strain, bottle, and cork. 2 s 2500 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. (2) To 1 pint of strained Red-Currant juice put lib. of sugar. Boil the sugar and juice gently together eight or ten minutes, then set it where it will cool; add, when luke- warm, 1 wineglassful of brandy to every pint of syrup. Bottle and cork tightly, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. Red-Currant Syrup. — (1) Put the required quantity of freshly- gathered Red Currants into a bowl, mash them with a wooden spoon, cover the bowl, and let them stand for three or four hours. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, measure it, and put it into a sugar-boiler with fib. of lump sugar to each pint of juice. Boil until reduced to a clear syrup, keeping it well skimmed; then take it off the fire and leave until cold. Turn the syrup into small bottles, pour a little fresh salad-oil on the top of each, to preserve it, then cork the bottles closely, and put them, in an upright position, in a dry cupboard until required. (2) Boil lib. of crushed loaf sugar to 32deg. (see Sugar- boiling), take it from the fire, and leave till cold. Pick and pound sufficient Red Currants to make f pint of juice, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. When cold, mix the syrup with the Currant-juice, pour it into bottles, and cork them tightly down. Put the bottles in a saucepan, with straw round them to prevent them knocking together and breaking, pour in cold water to three-parts their height, bring it to the boil, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, simmer gently for six or seven minutes, then take the sauce- pan from the fire and leave the bottles in it till cold. Dip the nozzles of the bottles in bottle-wax, and stack them away in bins in a cold cellar till wanted. Red-Currant Vanilla-flavoured Bomb.—Take 11 pints of syrup at 30deg., strain it, and mix in a basin with 11 pints of the juice of Red Currants. Put the yolks of eighteen eggs into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups), lqt. of rich cream, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Place the pan on the fire, stir until the eggs begin to thicken—taking care not to let the mixture boil—and then strain the whole through a fine sieve. Pack two freezing-pots and a bomb-mould in pounded ice and rock-salt, pour the Currant-syrup into one pot and the vanilla cream into the other; work both well and freeze. Put the Currant ice into the mould to line the sides about lin. in thickness, and the vanilla ice in the centre. Place the cover on the mould and cover over the top with ice. When set, turn the bomb out on to a sheet of paper, cut it first into slices fin. in thickness, then again into halves, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it. Red-Currant Vinegar.—(1) Gather the required quantity of ripe Red Currants and press them well to extract the juice. Leave it for one night, then strain through a fine hair sieve into bottles, filling them to the top; stand them uncorked in a warm place or in the sun, and leave until fermentation ceases. Skim off all the scum that rises to the top. When ready, cork the bottles, and put them by for use. (2) Or it may be made in the same way as Black-Currant Vinegar, substituting red for black Currants, and colouring with a little cochineal. Red-Currant Wine.—(1) Choose the Currants when they are ripe, remove the stalks and any unsound fruit, put them in a bowl, and mash them with a wooden pestle or spoon; keep them in this state for twenty-four hours, then pass through a fine sieve, and to every g-allon of fruit-pulp add 2galls. of water with 61b. of caster sugar dissolved in it. Put all into a cask and let it ferment, which it should do without the use of yeast. A little brandy may be added when the ferment- ing is at an end, but it is not a necessity. Bung up the cask, and leave for three months. Then stir in some whites of eggs, or gelatine, let it settle, and after the wine is cleared draw off into bottles. (2) To every gallon of the extracted juice add 31b. of brown sugar, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Trim off the stalks and pick out the unsound berries from 3galls. of Red Currants, put them into a pan, and with a wooden spoon bruise them to extract all the juice; strain them, and to what remains in the strainer add 4jgalls. of cold water. Mix it well and thoroughly, then strain it into the juice, and add 141b. of sugar. Let the sugar thoroughly dis- solve, pour the whole into a cask, leaving about 2in. of space unfilled, lay the bung over the hole, put the cask in a warm Currants—continued. place, say about 70deg. Fahr., and let it stand for a month ; then add 31b. of sugar dissolved in igall. of warm water, give the cask a good shaking, and put in the bung. In about two months, when the fermentation has ceased, rack off the clear liquor, leaving the sediment, and add lqt. of brandy to it or not, as desired. Pour it into a clean cask. Let it remain in a cool place for a couple of months tightly bunged down so as to exclude the air, and it is ready for use. Sugared Red Currants. Proceed the same as for Sugared White Currants. Whipped Red-Currant Cream.—Put loz. of gelatine in a saucepan with J- pint of water, place it over the fire until boiling and dissolved, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of Red-Currant juice and the juice of one large lemon or two small ones. Sweeten the mixture to taste, stir it over the fire until boiling again, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cool. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, whisk it to a stiff snow or froth, then add it to the Currant-juice, and whisk the whole together. When the mixture is very thick, turn it into a mould packed in ice. When set, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on to a fancy dish. White Currants.—As early as the year 1675 Worlidge wrote of the “White Curran” as becoming native to our soil, “ which is also improved in some rich moist grounds that it hath gained a higher name of the greatest red Dutch curran.” Horticulturists inform us that the White Currant has been evolved from the red Currant by cultivation, and mention the white as merely a sample of the red in a higher state of cultivation. As if in confirmation of this, a Currant that is neither ab- solutely white nor red is known, but this appears to be a later variety than the white, hence it is probable that the red and white are two distinct kinds, just as there are red and white cherries and other fruit. The following sorts are named by Nicholson in the “Dictionary of Gardening ” as the best grown : White Dutch, the best of the White Currants, the bunches and berries are large, and of a mild, sweet flavour; Wilmot’s Large White, a distinct variety, but not so much grown as White Dutch. Sugared White Currants.—Take a few dozen large freshly- gathered bunches of White Currants, and dip each one sepa- rately in the well-whisked white of an egg with 1 teaspoonful of maraschino or water mixed with it. Put lib. of caster sugar in a basin, and place it before the fire to warm. After dipping the Currants in the egg and letting them drain, dip them into the sugar, taking care that they are well covered ; place them on a strainer until the sugar is set, and they are then ready to be served in any ornamental fashion (see Fig. 010). White-Currant-and-Cherry Wine.—This is made in the same way as Red-Currant-and-Cherry Wine, using 71b. each of White Currants and whiteheart cherries, and substituting sliced angelica for the juniper-berries. White-Currant Granito.—This is much esteemed in Italy and France. Put 1 k pints of White-Currant juice into a pan with an equal quantity of syrup at 20deg. (see Syrups), the501 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—con tinued. juice of two oranges, and a little orange zest. Mix well, strain through a fine sieve into a freezer packed in ice, adding only a small quantity of rock-salt to the ice. Let this remain for a few minutes, then remove any of the mixture adhering to the sides with a spatula. When it begins to set it is “granite” or “grainy” rough ice, this being where it differs from all other ices. Serve immediately. White-Currant Jelly.—Take 121b. of White Currants, pick them from their stalks, put into a preserving-pan on the stove, crush them with the back of a wooden spoon, and let them get a little warm, crushing and stirring till they yield all tlieir juice ; then squeeze them in a straining-cloth and get all the juice from them. Measure the juice, and add to each pint lib. of loaf sugar and 4 teacupful of cold water. Put the sugar and water into a preserving-pan and let it boil, skimming off the scum as it rises, till the water has evaporated, being careful that it boils very slowly. To find out when the water has evaporated, dip a spoon into the boiling sugar and put it at once into cold water, then touch the sugar that sticks to the spoon with the finger ; if it cracks, it is ready, and the Currant-juice must then be stirred in. Let it just come to the point of boiling, but do not let it boil or the colour will be spoiled. Put it into jars, and when quite cold cover so as to exclude the air. White-Currant Jelly garnished with Raspberries.—Take ljlb. of Currants; after removing the stalks and unsound fruit, put them into 1| pints of boiling syrup at 30deg. (see Syrups), and keep them on the fire for two or three minutes, tossing so as to cook them equally and evenly. Then turn them into a basin, and when they are cold strain through a jelly-bag, squeezing so as to get out all the juice possible. Put 2oz. of gelatine into a stewpan with 8oz. of caster sugar. Beat up the whites of three eggs, add lqt. of water and the juice Fig. 611. White-Currant Jelly garnished with Raspberries. of a lemon, and put these into the saucepan containing the gelatine ; place the pan on the fire and whisk the contents well until they boil, then take the pan off and let them cool for a few minutes before passing through a flannel bag. When this mixture is strained, put it back into the pan, pass it again through the flannel bag, and when it is quite cold add it to the Currant juice. Pack a mould in ice, pour the jelly into it, and let it remain in for two hours. Turn it out, garnish with some fine raspberries, and serve. See Fig. 611. White-Currant Shrub.—Bruise some White Currants, put them in a jelly-bag, and let the juice drip from them. Dis- solve powdered loaf sugar in the juice in the proportion of 3oz. of sugar to each pint of juice, and when the sugar is quite melted add to each pint of juice J pint of rum; bottle and cork well. In many dishes prepared by our famous cooks, a combination of Currants is used for the sake of variety of colour; so, also, with the Currants are added other fruits, such as cherries and raspberries. Several receipts for these will be found hereunder, as well as some receipts which apply to all these kinds of Currants in- discriminately. Compote of Red and White Currants.—Put |lb. of sugar into a stewpan with \ pint of cold water, set the pan on the fire, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes; then add lqt. Currants—continued. of mixed red and white Currants freed from their stalks, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Strain the syrup from the fruit, put the fruit first into a compote-dish, pour over the syrup, and serve when cold. Currant-and-Cherry Wine.—Take 301b. of either red or white Currants, and an equal quantity of black Currants and small cherries, not stoned and leaving on the stalks; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them with a large stick. Boil i teacupful of juniper-ben-ie3 in 5 or 6 pints of water, let it cool, add jib. of honey to cause fermen- tation, and mix them with the juice of the fruits. Stir two or three times for twenty-four hours ; then fill up the cask -with water, and bung. This quantity will make 150 bottles of excellent wine. A pint or two of brandy may be added to give more strength. Currant Jam.—Put lib. each of black, red, and white Currants into a preserving-pan, boil for a few minutes, then add 2jtlb. of sugar and boil all together, mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon ; when it has boiled gently for half-an- liour, fill the jars with the jam, cover over, and put away for future use. Currant-Jelly Sauce.—Prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sauce, strain it well, add 1 teacupful of Currant jelly made warm, put it in a pan on the fire, and stir until the jelly is quite hot and well mixed. It is then ready for use. Currant-Juice Jelly. -(1) Put loz. of gelatine into J pint of cold water, let it soak for two hours, then pour lj pints of boiling water over it, and mix until it is dis- solved. Next add the juice of a lemon, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of loaf sugar very finely powdered, and the same of any Currant-juice. Pass through a tammy or napkin into moulds, and when it is cold put it on the ice to set. When stiff it is ready for use. Or another way is to pour in a layer of the jelly, let it harden, then a layer of strawberries, and continue alternately until the mould is full or the jelly all used up. (2) Pick the fruit before it is over-ripe, take off the stalks, weigh, put it into a copper preserving-pan, and to every pound of fruit add 21b. of sugar. Stir the sugar and fruit well and leave for about an hour to macerate, then put the pan on the fire and boil for four or five minutes; next pass the liquor through a fine sieve into a large basin, and when it has set and is quite cool, place it in jars, and cover them over in the usual way. Currant Pie.—Remove the stalks, leaves, and any unsound fruit from the Currants, put them into a dish with sufficient caster sugar to sweeten, and pour over a little boiling water. Place the dish in the oven to simmer for a few minutes, then take it out and cool. When the fruit is cold, pour it into a pie-dish, cover over with a light puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Currant Sherbet.—Put 1 table-spoonful of gelatine to soak in a little cold water, and afterwards let it dissolve in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Add to this 1 pint of cold water, lib. of caster sugar, the juice of a lemon, and 1 pint of any Currant-juice. When mixed, put it in the freezer and freeze before using. The gelatine may be omitted, but the sherbet is best with it. Currant Syrup.— (1) Select ripe fruit only, whether red, white, or black Currants, and pick them over carefully, so as to free them of all rotten fruit. Mash the fruit in an earthenware crock by means of a vegetable-masher, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, at a temperature of from 75deg. to 85deg. Fahr. Keep the crock covered with a cloth, stirring the contents occasionally; then press out the juice through a sieve, measure it, and leave it for the night. In the morning add 1 wineglassful of brandy for every pint of juice; allow this to macerate for a few hours, and then filter. After filtering, put the juice into a sugar-boiler or large preserving-pan, stir in Hlb. of crushed loaf sugar for every pint, heat to boiling, skim, and stand in clean bottles previously rinsed out with a little brandy. Cork well, and capsule or wax over. (2) Pull the stalks off ljlb. of red Currants, ljlb. of white Currants, lib. of raspberries, and lib. of stoned cherries. Mash the fruit in a small tub, and keep it in a warm place for three or four days, covering the tub with a cloth or a pieceTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 502 Currants—continued. of coarse paper with holes pricked in it to let the air through. At the end of that time strain the juice, measure it, and put in a pan with lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar for each pint. Boil gently, stirring it occasionally, until reduced to a syrup, keeping it well skimmed. Leave the syrup until cold, then bottle, and keep tightly corked until used. Currant Water.—Put 1 small table-spoonful of any Currant jelly in a tumbler of water with 10 or 15 grains of tartaric acid, stir it till dissolved, and serve. It is a very refreshing and easily-made drink for the summer-time. Currant Wine from Unripe Fruit.—Bemove the stalks, put the fruit into an earthenware crock, and mash the berries with a wooden spoon or pestle ; pour over an equal quantity of water, and add the same amount of sugar as for ripe fruit. The wine will not be very sweet, but it will be pleasantly flavoured and strong. The liquor must be well strained before putting it into the cask, and it must then be set aside to ferment. Raspberry-and-Currant Jelly, Pie, Tart, and Tartlets.— See Baspberries. Red-and-White-Currant-Cherry-and-Strawberry Salad. —Take some red and white Currants, cherries, and straw- berries, all perfectly ripe, and having picked out the bad fruit and stalks, put them in layers in a deep dish, sprinkle some caster sugar over each layer, pour over the whole a little thick cream, or a few lumps of Devonshire cream (a slight distance apart) on the top of the fruit, and serve. Red- or White-Currant Cordial.—Put lib. of crushed red or white Currants into a vessel with 1 pint of brandy, and let it macerate for a month. Strain it, and to every pound add 3oz. of sugar; let this dissolve, filter through paper, and bottle. Red- or White-Currant Cream Ice.—Bemove the stalks and unsound fruit from 51b. or 61b. of red or white Currants, put them into a saucepan with an equal weight of Currant j jam and ilb. or so of raspberries or strawberries, pour in 1 pint J of cream, and cook gently over the fire until the Currants are done and pulpy ; add the juice of a lemon, and an equal weight of the Currants and raspberries in sugar, and simmer gently until the whole is done. Let it cool, turn it into the freezer, freeze, and it is ready for use. Red- or White-Currant Fritters.—Wash a dozen or so large bunches of red or white Currants, put them into a saucepan with some weak syrup, and let them simmer on the side of the fire for two or three minutes. Take out and let them get quite cold. Dip into batter sweetened and flavoured with noyeau, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or butter, and fry to a good colour. When done, take them out, drain off all the fat, arrange on a napkin folded over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 612. Red and White Currants Glacees au Caramel.—Take an j equal quantity of red and white Currants, say about twenty bunches each, and dip them (a bunch at a time) into some boiling syrup. Take them out, drain, and when cold they can be served. Red-and-White-Currant Jam.—Choose fruit that has been [ picked on a dry day, remove the stalks, weigh it, put it into a preserving-pan with an equal weight of preserving-sugar, and boil for nine minutes. Pour the jam into jars, cover For details respecting Culmary Processes, Currants—continued. with paper soaked in brandy, and then with bladder or pre- pared paper. Red- or White-Currant Paste.—Put a quantity of red or white Currants on a sieve, press out about three-parts of the juice from them, and put it on one side. Then squeeze the remainder of the juice from the fruit, put it into a stewpan over a moderate fire, and heat slowly, stirring continuously until the paste is dry. For every pound weight of the original bulk of fruit add Jib. of sugar. When the sugar is added, boil for twenty minutes more, taking care not to burn the paste. Place it in jars, cover over, and pack away until wanted for use. Red-and-White - Currant - and - Raspberry Jelly.—Bemove the stalks and unsound fruit from 81b. of red and white Currants in equal proportions, put them into a large pan, and with the hand squeeze out all the juice. When it is all extracted, which will take some time, leave it in the jar for a day before using. Take 21b. of raspberries, put them into a stewpan with J pint of water, and boil for a few minutes, crushing them with a spoon; then put the Currants and raspberries together on a hair sieve and press them well with a wooden spoon to extract as much as possible of the juice. If the juice is not clear, strain it through a flannel jelly-bag, and for every pound weight of it add an equal weight of sugar, in large pieces. Put the sugar into the preserving-pan with 1 pint of water, pour the juice over it, set the pan on the fire, and boil for thirty minutes or so, stirring frequently. When it is done and has cooled a little, pour it into bottles and cork. Two or 3 table-spoonfuls of this jelly dissolved in a tumblerful of water or aerated water makes a very delicious beveragefor a hot summer’s day. Red-and-White-Currant-and-Raspberry Sweet Salad.— Pick the stalks off lib. of red Currants and the same quantity of white Currants. Put the red Currants in the middle of a compote-dish; then arrange round them a border of alter- nate rows of the white Currants and some raspberries. Sweeten 1 pint or more of cream with caster sugar, and stir it till the sugar has dissolved, adding gradually J wineglassful of curaijoa and J wineglassful of brandy. Pour the dressing over the fruit and serve without delay. See Fig. 613. It is better perhaps to pour the dressing over the salad after it is placed on the table, as if it is not served at once, or is shaken much in carrying, the cream is likely to sink to the bottom, and somewhat spoil the appearance of the dish. Red - and -White - Currant - and - Raspberry Syrup.—Crush 61b. of red Currants, 21b. of white Currants, and lib. of rasp- berries in a sieve ; press all the juice through into a pan, put this into a cellar to allow the juice to ferment, and let it stand a week. Then clarify and boil 41b. of sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add the juice to the sugar when it is at this point, the juice having fermented during its week in the cellar, which fermentation is necessary to prevent the syrup from becoming a jelly after it is bottled. When the juice and sugar are mixed, let them boil once, remove the scum, take the syrup from the fire, and when sufficiently cooled pour it into bottles. Red-and-White-Currant Salad. — Select large bunches of perfectly ripe red and white Currants, put them in alternate layers at the bottom of a dish, and sift caster sugar over each layer. Sift more sugar on the top, also a small quantity of grated nutmeg; pour over a little rum or brandy, and serve. see under their special heads. Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to,503 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. Red- or White-Currant Shrub.—Remove the stalks and un- sound fruit from 2qts. of red or white Currants, put them into a large jar or earthenware crock, cover it over, place it in a saucepan of cold water on the fire and boil once, afterwards removing it to the side of the fire and letting it simmer for one-hour-and-a-half or two hours. The juice having flowed freely, pass the liquor through a sieve, measure it, and to every pint add lqt. of rum and 6oz. of caster sugar. Add the sugar to the juice while it is still -warm, stir it up, and then add the rum. Strain again through a tammy or flannel-bag, and pour it into bottles. It will then be ready for use, but improves by keeping. Red- or White-Currant Tartlets.—Put 1 pint of red or white (or both) Currants into a basin with 2oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and mix well. Line six fluted tart-moulds with |lb. of puff paste, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, place the Currants on top, dust them over with some sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Take them out, sprinkle over the edges with more powdered sugar, glaze in the oven for two minutes, and then let them cool. Turn them out of the moulds, mask with a thin coating of apple jelly, put them on a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. Red- or White-Currant Water.—Take lqt. of Currants, either red or white, pick them free of all stalks, and add to them 1 pint of raspberries picked and cleaned. Put both raspberries and Currants into a preserving-pan, bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon, then pour over them igall. of cold water, and add Jib. of sugar. Set the pan on the stove, and let it very gradually get hot; when it begins to boil, take the pan from the stove, empty its contents into a jelly-bag, and drain into a large jug. When it is quite clear, let it get cold, freeze it, and sweeten to taste with white sugar. Red- or White-Currant Wine.—(1) Remove the stalks from some red or white Currants, put them into a muslin bag, squeeze them to extract all the juice, and to every gallon of juice add 2galls. of water and 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast. [The yeast is not an absolute necessity.—Ed.] Let it remain for forty-eight hours to work, strain it through a sieve, and add 31b. of sugar to every gallon of liquor. Mix well, and pour it into a cask ; bung up the cask, and in about three months’ time it will be ready to bottle. Brandy may be added or not, as desired. (2) Put lgall. of white, or white and red (mixed) Currants into a large crock, and crush them with a wooden pestle, or the hands ; pour over them Ingalls. of cold water, and stir them occasionally for a week. Then pour the liquor through a tammy or jelly-bag, measure it, and to every gallon add 41b. of crushed loaf sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Let it remain for a day or two in the crock, then put it into a cask, and allow it to ferment. When the fermentation has ceased, bung up the cask and let it stand for about eight months. Clarify with isinglass. (3) Put 161b. of red or white Currants into a bowl or crock with 3galls. of water, break the Currants with the hands in the water, and strain off the liquor; dissolve in it 141b. of crushed loaf sugar, and strain into a barrel. Add 1 pint of crushed raspberries, cover over the bung-, and let it work. In a week or so bung it down, and let it stand for three months. Some add 1 pint of brandy to this quantity, but it is not essential to quality. Dried Currants (Grocers’). — As previously ex- plained, the more correct name for this fruit would be Corinthian grapes, or raisins, as they were originally imported from Corinth, in Greece; but in later years the greater bulk have been grown in Zante. They grow wild on miniature vines, and hang in miniature bunches (see Fig. 614), have no seeds, and are gathered when ripe and already partly dried. The Zantiotes are said scarcely to understand for what purposes we use them, fancying that they must be for a kind of dye. They tread them into barrels so firmly that the mass of currants has sometimes to be broken up for sale or use by a large wooden mallet. There are more of these Currants used in England than in any other part of the world, the annual importation exceeding half-a-million tons. “It is a Currants—continued. question,” says Kettner, “ whether the English partiality for them is reasonable, for they are very indigestible, though cheap, and in moderation pleasant.” The following receipts are very good examples of the many uses for which we employ Dried Currants, and some others will be found under various headings, such as Buns, Cakes, Mincemeat, &c., but, before using, it is necessary that the Currants should be cleaned. At one time it was believed that to wash them would remove so much of the outside sugar as to spoil the flavour altogether; this, however, has been shown to be erroneous, for what sugary matter may be outside is ex- ceedingly dirty, and having- come in a measure from the inside is merely an impure sample of that which is con- tained within in greater abund- ance. Let them be well washed in a colander, and then picked over, and all spoiled Currants and bits of stone and dirt removed. This can be more perfectly accomplished by spreading the washed Cur- rants on a cloth. Then dry them in the cloth as thoroughly as possible, dredge them with flour, and shake in a sieve until dry flour falls through. In this state they are ready to mix into a cake. For mincemeat and other purposes in which flour is not used, plain drying will be sufficient. Currant Buns.—See Buns. Fig. 614. Grocers’ Currants (Corinth Vine). Currant Cake. — (1) Mix together 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, half a grated nut- meg, J breakfast-cupful of milk, and five eggs; beat all well together. Clean lib. of Currants and roll in the dough. Put into a suitable tin, and bake. (2) Cream nearly 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, add gradually 1| breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or lemon, 1 saltspoonful of mace, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cleaned Currants. Mix 3 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and | teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; add gradually to the other ingredients. Pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and lastly, add the well-beaten whites of three eggs. Put into a buttered tin, and bake in a steady oven about fifty minutes. (3) Mix lib. of flour in a basin with |lb. of moist sugar, rub well into these -]lb. of butter, add lib. of cleaned Currants, and 1 small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; mix both soda and Currants well in the flour. Beat well three eggs and add to them 1 teacupful of milk. Have ready a well-buttered cake- tin. Mix well and quickly together the dry ingredients and the eggs and milk. Put the cake into the tin in a moderately hot oven as quickly as possible, and bake for an-hour-and-a- half. (4) Butter some small round tins. Put lib. of flour in a basin together with 6oz. of butter, and with the hands rub the butter well into the flour ; mix in [lb. of cleaned Currants and [lb. of sugar ; put 1 teaspoonful of volatile salts on a plate, rub it quite smooth with the back of a spoon, put it into the basin with the other ingredients, and mix well. Beat well four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, and with this mix the flour, &c., to a dough very quickly, half fill the tins, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Currant Dumpling's.— (1) Skin and chop fine Jib. of beef- suet, put it in a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, lib. of breadcrumbs, [lb. of sugar, and [lb. of cleaned Currants. Mix all these well together, and stir into them f pint of milk. Dip the centre of a pudding-cloth into boiling water, wringTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 504 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Currants—continued. the water out of it, dredge a little flour over, spread the floured cloth over the top of a basin, pour the dumpling into it, tie the cloth tightly with a piece of strong twine, and put the dumpling into a large saucepan of boiling water. Throw into the water J table-spoonful of salt and boil fast for three hours. Be careful not to allow the boil to slacken, and should the water waste much, replenish it from a kettle kept boiling for the purpose. When the dumpling is done, turn it carefully out of the cloth on to a hot dish. (2) Mix 5 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin with a pinch of salt, 3 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, and 12oz. of finely- shred beef-suet, then add lib. of well-cleaned Currants. When these are thoroughly mixed, stir in four beaten eggs and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, or sufficient to make a stiff paste. Form it into large balls, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, moving about frequently to prevent them adhering to the side, and boil for about half-an-hour. When done, take them out, and serve with sugar or sweet sauce. The paste may also be rolled in one piece and tied up in a cloth, if desired. (3) Finely chop Jib. of beef-suet and mix an equal quantity of finely-grated breadcrumbs with it; also 4oz. of well-cleaned Currants, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated ginger. Beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites Fig. 615. Currant Dumplings. of two, stir them into the above ingredients, and mix the whole well. Divide the mixture into equal-sized portions, mould them into balls with the hands floured, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Serve hot. See Fig. 615. Currant Fritters.—(1) Mix together 1 teacupful of clean Currants, 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs (the whites and yolks beaten separately), and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. When well mixed, fry this batter in lumps in boiling lard. Drain the fritters before the fire on paper, pile them on a hot dish, sprinkle with white sugar, and serve hot. (2) Put Jib. of flour into a basin with 3oz. or 4oz. of sugar and 4oz. of well-cleaned Currants, then stir in gradually sufficient light ale to make a stiff batter, and beat well. Put a large lump of lard into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then drop in the batter in table- spoonfuls, and fry them until evenly browned all over. When the fritters are cooked, take them out of the fat and drain on paper or a sieve for two or three minutes. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve with a butter-boat of lemon sauce. See Fig. 616. Currants—co n tinued. Currant Gruel.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of oatmeal with lqt. of water, and stir it over the fire till about half cooked ; then mix in it 2oz. of well-cleaned Currants, sweeten to taste with sugar, and finish cooking it. When quite cooked, mix 1 teacupful of cream with the gruel, turn it into a bowl or soup plates, and serve. If Currants are not liked, the gruel can be made with the water in which some Currants have been boiled. The cream may be omitted. Currant Pancakes.—See Pancakes. Currant Pudding'.—Mix together lib. of cleaned Currants and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, then add a little grated nutmeg and sliced citron. When thoroughly mixed, turn them all into a basin, tie over a cloth, and boil until done. Serve with wine sauce. Currant Roll.—Put 12oz. of flour into a basin, make a bay in the centre, mix in Jib. of warmed finely-shred beef- suet, the same quantity of well-cleaned Currants, and a little salt; pour in about 1 pint of water or sufficient to make the paste thick. Form it into a roll, tie it up in a cloth, plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about two hours. Take it out when done, turn it carefully out of the cloth on to a dish, and serve with sweet sauce poured over it. When the flour is moistened with the water, the paste should be rather soft, almost too soft to be handled. Currant Sauce for Sucking-pig.—Clean thoroughly loz. of Currants, put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of water, and boil for a few minutes; then sprinkle over them 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs. Leave them for a few minutes, then beat them with a fork, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of melted fresh butter. Take 2 table-spoonfuls of the gravy made for the sucking-pig, pour into it 1 wineglassful of port, and add a little salt. Pour this into the Currants, and place the pan on the fire, stirring until the sauce is quite smooth. Currant Tart.—Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of well-cleaned Cur- rants into a basin with 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Line a tart-dish with paste, spread over it 1 table-spoonful of apple sauce, place the Currants and sugar over this, put a rim of paste round the edge of the dish, moistening with beaten egg on both sides before putting it on, fasten it securely at the ends, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for about fifty minutes. Take it out, sprinkle the surface well with powdered loaf sugar, return it to the oven to melt the sugar, take it out again, spread over some sweet jelly, and serve hot or cold, but the former for preference. Currant Wine.—See Raisin Wine. Spiced Currants.—Make a syrup of 31b. of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of cinnamon, 2 table-spoonfuls of cloves, and J teaspoonful of salt; add 61b. of well-cleaned Currants. Boil for half-an-hour, and they are ready for use. CURRY. — Although this name for a celebrated mode of cooking is generally considered to be of Indian birth, and accepted by European residents in India as a national dish, it in reality owes both title and origin to Europe. That the original European Curry, probably a sort of Spanish olla, was inferior in every way to the high-class preparations that now rejoice in the name, there can be no doubt; nor that the native cooks, with an instinct worthy of the cause, have so improved upon the original by reason of the greater facilities for flavouring at their command, that Curry has become a native by adoption. Of this we have abundant proofs, for although, be it observed, not one native Indian in a hundred knows what Curry is, there is not a presidency or small state but has its school of Curry-making and Curry. Thus, we have Madras Curry, Bengal Curry, Bombay Curry, &c., and to these might now be added, Cingalese and Burmese Curries also. The origin of the term “ Curry ” seems to be simple enough, as referring to the mode and process used in its preparation. Webster says that to Curry signifies “ to dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing, heating, smoking, and colouring”; but, whereas this is applied to the currying of leather, there can be no doubt that it applies equally well and correctly to the preparationJKTf •r ' S' . vl X/r > '“i A BUFFET OR SIDEBOARD DISPLAYED AS FOR A COLD LUNCHEON OR BANQUET.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 505 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Curry—continued. of the various ingredients for Curry. Some authorities suppose the word to be derived from the Tamil Karil, and this view seems to be supported in France, where Curry is known as Kari; but the simple English deri- vation appears to answer all purposes, and may be ac- cepted without further argument or discussion. An authority on the subject writing in the Saturday Review treats currying as a special branch of cookery, and informs us that “ there are a thousand Curries, varying according to the constituent items, the ingredients, their proportions to each other, and the mode of preparation. To speak, therefore, of ‘ Curry ’ as a specific dish is an absurdity. There are meat Curries, fish Curries, vege- table Curries, Curries wet and Curries dry, Curries hot and Curries sweet, Curries simple and Curries spiced.” Of the principal Indian Curries, Madras is reckoned to be the purest and best, Bengal is preferred for fish and vegetables, and Bombay Curry is mostly adapted to currying fish (bornelow or poppedorus). Ceylon is famous for a pink Curry made in Galle; and in Burmah there is a mystic Curry called ballychoug, of whose composition, we are informed, it were better not to inquire into too curiously. Malay Curry is distinguished by the addition of the milk of the cocoa-nut, and to the Curry is added fresh chutneys. The Indian names for varieties of Curry are very numerous, indicating certain special or imaginary features, such as are Doopiaja, Koorma, Bindellio, Kofta, Hussanee- Kawab, Pulwul-Bliajee, Dalchur Churree, &c. The writer previously quoted goes on to inform us that it is a false notion to ascribe to Curry “ one pervading piquant hotness, born of chilli and of turmeric. The true Indian cook can vary his flavours at pleasure, and has a far greater range of resources than his European compeer, having as his chief aids onions, turmeric, garlic, green ginger, chillies, coriander, cumin, black pepper, bay-leaf, cassia-leaf, lemon-grass, and poj)py-seeds, with occasional calls upon cardamoms, cloves, and mace. He has, moreover, a privilege denied to the European Curry-cook in this, that he is able to use these condiments in a green state, freshly gathered, being all natives of the soil. He grinds them every morning for the Curries of the day, adapting the compounds to the meats which are to form their staple.” According to the very best authorities, different Curries are required for different meats ; for instance, a Curry-powder containing ginger is not suitable for fish, but mustard-oil should be sub- stituted ; Curries containing cocoa-nut, or chestnut, should have no coriander or cumin. How can these anomalies be avoided if only one powder, or paste, is at the cook’s command ? And how can the European Curry-cook avail himself of the various ingredients detailed in such a manner as to produce special combinations of his own ? A very good assortment of different Curries will be found below; but are these equal to those made fresh every morning of fresh ingredients P On this point there is a variety of opinion, and some Anglo-Indian gourmets are decidedly in favour of the drier powders, as supplying flavours that are not found in the fresh herbs and spices until they are dried, just as a clove-bud requires to be dried before its full strength and aroma are developed. Very few Curries would be considered perfect without a full flavour of onions, and these should be prepared in two ways, the first by pounding in a mortar to mix with the Curry, and the other by slicing and frying scarcely to browning, to be used as a garnish. Cream, if added just before serving, yields a great charm to a vegetable or fish Curry; or it may be mixed up with the Curry and the meat added; or the meat may he in a bath of cream for some hours before making the Curry. It is a great fault to stint butter in making Curries ; nor should the Curry be swamped with water; nor should flour, except on certain occasions, be used to thicken a Curry. The Indian cook uses ghee for making Curry; this is I Curry—continued. a sort of clarified butter or fat for which superiority is claimed. Another mode of making a good Curry, such as a Country Captain, is to use cooked meat, and cut it up very small. The Curry ingredients are cooked first with butter and onion, and when this is sufficiently done, stir in the meat. All good Curry-cooks admit that it is a mistake to boil Curry, or raise it as high as the boiling-point of water, hence they adopt a system of cooking it by standing a basin containing the Curry in a saucepan of hot water. This has led to the invention of a capital Curry-pan, in- vented by Captain Warren, and known as “Warren’s Curry-pan ” (see Fig. 617). It consists of a shallow tin saucepan with another let in above it, and a lid ovei- that. The lower vessel is filled with water, and in the upper vessel the Curry is cooked. The Begum Company supply some very good Curries, all ready for warming, as well as Curry-powders and pastes. Numerous receipts for Curries will be found through- out this Encyclopaedia under the appropriate headings of the chief material used in the Curry, and under Rice will be found some excellent receipts for preparing rice for serving with Curry. The following Curry-powders and paste have been found to give very excellent results: Bengal Curry-Powder. —(1) Put in a mortar 8oz. of coriander- seeds, 5oz. of black pepper, and Joz. of cayenne pepper. Pound them, and then sift through a fine hair sieve. Put the powder into well-stoppered bottles, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (2) Put in a mortar 12oz. of coriander-seeds, 5oz. of black pepper, 3oz. of cumin-seeds, 2oz. of cayenne pepper, 2oz. of fenu- greek-seeds, and 6oz. of pale-coloured turmeric. When well powdered, sift through a fine hair sieve on to a sheet of paper, and then pour into well-stoppered bottles, which keep in a dry cupboard. Curry Forcemeat Balls.—Put some hard-boiled eggs in a mortar with breadcrumbs, and pound them well together, adding a little Curry-powder and salt to taste, with just enough butter to make it of sufficient consistence to be rolled into balls. Put these into a saucepan with a little stock, and boil for ten minutes. Curry Paste.—Put into a mortar ^lb. of roasted coriander-seeds, loz. of roasted cumin-seeds, 2oz. each of black pepper, dry chillies, dry turmeric, and mustard-seeds, loz. each of dry ginger and garlic, and 4oz. each of sugar, salt, and roasted corn (gram dal), and pound well, pouring in sufficient white-wine vinegar to bring the mixture to the consistence of jelly. Warm some sweet-oil in a pan, and as soon as it commences to bubble, drop in the mixture and fry until it is reduced to a paste. When this is cold, put it in bottles, cork them, and keep in a dry place until wanted for use. Mustard-oil may be substituted for the sweet-oil, but on no account must any water be allowed to get into the paste, or it will be spoilt. Curry-Powder.— (1) Pound in an iron mortar 3oz. each of turmeric and coriander-seeds, loz. each of mustard-seeds, ginger, and black pepper, loz. of lesser cardamoms, and loz. each of cumin-seeds and cayenne pepper. When well pounded and mixed, bottle till wanted for use. This powder is better after a little keeping. (2) Grind in a spice-mill, or buy ready ground, 21b. of turmeric, Rb. of mustard-seeds, l|lb. of poppy-seeds (these may be omitted), ilb. of garlic, loz. of cinnamon, 51b. of coriander- seeds, Jib. of large chillies, 2oz. of black pepper, and a little lemon-juice. When the ingredients are as fine as they can be made, rub all through a hair sieve, and put into tightly- corked bottles. (3) Put 3oz. each of turmeric and coriander-seeds, loz. each of black pepper, mustard, and ginger, Joz. each of allspice506 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., Curry—continued. and cardamom-seeds, and joz. of cumin-seeds on a sheet or dish in a cool oven for twelve hours or so, to dry. Take them out, put in a mortar, and pound them well, taking care to have them well mixed. Put the powder into bottles, and it is ready for use. (4) Put 3oz. of turmeric in a mortar with 4oz. of coriander- seeds, loz. each of ginger, black pepper, and cumin-seeds, ^oz. of cardamom-seeds, and | teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and pound them thoroughly ; then sift them through a fine hair sieve on to a sheet of paper. Dry the mixture in a slow oven for a few minutes, fill some bottles with it, and cork them down tightly. The Curry should be kept in a dry place till used. (5) Pound to a fine powder 2oz. each of cayenne pepper, mace, nutmeg, white ginger, coriander-seeds, and turmeric. Sift it all through a fine sieve, bottle it, and cork well. Curry Sandwich.—Boil three eggs hard and put them in cold water; when cold, shell them, put the yolks in a mortar, with about loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of Curry-powder, 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and salt to taste, and pound to a smooth paste, mixing in gradually a small quantity of tarragon vinegar. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread the Curry mixture over half of them, cover with the remaining half, press together, cut into fingers or strips, and arrange these on a folded serviette or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish ; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. More than the given quantity of Curry may be used in the mixture if desired. Curry Sauce.—(1) Peel and slice four onions and two apples, put them in a stewpan, add 4oz. of butter, six peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and two bay-leaves, and brown the onions over a moderate fire. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Curry-powder with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it in with the onion mixture ; then add j pint of white sauce and lqt. of white stock, season with salt and £ teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil for a-quarter-of-an hour, stirring continually; strain it through a sieve into another stewpan, boil again, skim, and use when required. . (2) Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and chopped onions in a saucepan and cook them for five minutes, being careful not to let them burn. Mix 1 table-spoonful of Curry-powder with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, add it to the butter, pour in gradually 1 pint of hot milk, and stir over the fire for a few minutes till thick and perfectly smooth; season with salt and pepper, and serve. Curry Soup.—(1) Cut a few onions in slices, fry them in butter, and put them in a saucepan with a little Curry-powder and butter; pour in sufficient stock to cover, make this hot without boiling, and pass it through a fine sieve. Have ready a dish covered with rice boiled in stock, pour the Curry over, and serve as hot as possible. (2) With the flesh of a fowl and a little crayfish butter prepare some quenelles with teaspoons, and poach them in broth. Cut the flesh of an eel into pieces, and fry in butter. Put the bones and trimmings of both fowl and eel into a saucepan with two sliced onions, 2qts. of chopped mushrooms, and a seasoning of parsley, bay-leaf, allspice, mace, basil, thyme, leeks, and cayenne, pour in lqt. of rich fowl soup, and boil for fully an hour. Strain the soup into another saucepan containing 6oz. of blanched rice, add another quart of boiling soup, with a little infusion of saffron to colour it slightly, and boil for an hour long'er. Put the pieces of eel together with about four dozen cooked crayfish tails at the bottom of a tureen, add the quenelles to the soup, warm them, pour the whole into the tureen, and serve. (3) Cut the fillets of two lampreys into small pieces, cover them with salt, let them stand for about an hour, wash and drain them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them. Prepare about 2qts. of rich fowl soup, and also make about two dozen salmon quenelles, about the size of filberts. Put the bones and trimmings of the lampreys and salmon, together with a carp cut up into pieces, into a saucepan with lqt. of the soup, add two onions cut into slices, 2qts. of button-mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, a few leeks, and a seasoning of four cloves, two bay-leaves, and a very small quantity each of allspice, mace, basil, thyme, and cayenne. Boil for an hour, strain into a saucepan containing C urry—conti nued. the pieces of lampreys, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes. Take out the pieces of fish, put them into a tureen, and keep them as hot as possible ; strain the liquor from them into another saucepan containing lOoz. of washed and blanched rice, pour in the remaining quart of the soup, add a slight infusion of saffron to give it a yellow colour, and boil for an hour; then add the salmon quenelles and poach them for a few minutes. Turn the whole into the tureen over the pieces of lampreys, and serve very hot. (4) Prepare and strain about 2qts. of rich soup ; put half of this into one saucepan and keep it boiling, and the other half into another saucepan with two fowls, tied round with slices of fat bacon, add a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, four cloves, a little each of thyme, basil, mace, allspice, cayenne, and pepper, and boil slowly for fully forty-five minutes. Take out the fowls, skim the soup, strain it into another saucepan over lOoz. of well-washed and blanched rice, add a very little infusion of saffron to give it a slight yellow colour, and boil for about one hour. Cut up the fowls into small pieces, put them at the bottom of a soup-tureen, pour over the soup with the rice, together with the other quart of boiling soup, and serve. Prepared in this way, the soup should have a slight flavouring of the herbs and spices, as well as a taste of cayenne. Indian Stick Curry (Hussanee).—Cut into pieces lin. square about 21b. of beef, mutton, or veal, and put them on skewers, alternately with half an onion and a slice of ginger. Put 3oz. of fat or butter into a saucepan, stir in 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, teaspoonful of ground ginger, \ teaspoonful of ground garlic, and 1J teaspoonfuls of salt; brown these in- Fig. 618. Indian Stick Curry. gredients thoroughly, add the sticks of meat, and brown them also, stirring continually ; then add 1 teacupful of milk warmed and thickened with a small lump of butter, and allowed to remain in a warm place for about ten hours before being used, and simmer gently until done. Beef will require about two hours to simmer, veal one hour, and mutton half-an-hour. Place the meat on a dish without removing the skewers, pour the Curry over, and serve. See Pig. 618. Madras Curry-Powder.—(1) Put in a mortar 2oz. each of cumin- and coriander-seeds, foz. each of cardamom-seeds and caraway- seeds, 1 table-spoonful of cayenne pepper, & table-spoonful each of black pepper, fenugreek-seeds, and cloves, and 1 tea- spoonful each of mace and cinnamon, also lOoz. of turmeric. Powder the above mixture well, sift it through a fine hair sieve on to a sheet of paper, and dry the powder in front of the fire, or in a slow oven; then put it into a bottle, cork it tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard. (2) Put equal quantities (say a teacupful) each of turmeric, coriander-seeds and poppy-seeds into a mortar, with five or six chillies and 1 teaspoonful each of mustard-seeds and cumin- seeds, and pound them well. Put the powder into a bottle, and use it as required. Portuguese Indian Curry (Bindelho).—This should only be made with beef, pork, or duck. Take about 21b. of the meat, cut it up into squares, put these into a basin, and pour over a mixture composed of 1 teacupful of vinegar, 1 table-spoonful each of ground ginger, ground garlic, and bruised garlic, 2 teaspoonfuls of ground chillies, J teaspoonful of roasted and ground cumin-seeds, 1 teaspoonful of roasted and ground coriander-seeds, a few peppercorns, five or six roasted and ground cloves, two or three bay-leaves, and six small sticksTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 507 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cusk—continued. great care that the fish retains its shape. In the mean- time put lqt., less 1 teacupful, of milk into a saucepan on the fire, add two sprig’s of parsley and a thin slice of onion, and bring it to the boil; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour worked smooth in the teacupful of milk, cook for eight minutes longer, season with salt and pepper, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and strain it oyer the Cusk. Put the fish into the oven for about ten minutes, so that it will slightly brown, and serve with a garnish of parsley, or small puff-paste cakes. Curry—continued. of cinnamon, also roasted and ground. Let the meat remain in this for a day, turning it frequently. Put 6oz. of lard into a frying-pan, warm it, throw in the meat, together with the marinade, add a few more peppercorns and bay- leaves, and cook over a slow fire for a couple of hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender. Turn the Curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Mustard-oil may be used as a substitute for the lard. CUSCUS.—A kind of wheat-paste prepared by the Arabs, and called by them Cooscooeoo. The French, who are well acquainted with Arab life, and would be certain to take much interest in Arabian cookery, say of Cuscus (which they spell couscous, that mode being more strictly in accordance with the pronunciation) that it is the national food of the Arabs in their highest state of civilisation. It was known to the Assyrians and Greeks many centuries ago, and was raised to the dignity of a national dish by the Carthaginians, under the name of pultophage. The Arabian Cuscirs is made by taking a certain amount of millet-seed, nicely cleaning it, grinding it to a fine flour, making this into a paste with water, leaving it exposed to the sun to ferment, and strongly seasoning with spices and sweetmeats. This is then tied up in a cloth and plunged into a pot in which a piece of mutton, strongly flavoured with aromatic hei’bs, is being boiled. The Cus- cus and mutton should be done at the same time, so that they may be served together. The French cook gives the name of Indian Cuscus to a dish prepared from locusts. When these destructive creatures have settled upon a field of cereals, as fast as they are gorged they fall upon their backs, which those in quest of them take advantage of, and picking them up in quantities, pull off their heads, wings, and legs, and throw them into a large earthen vessel, in which they pound, salt, and spice them. To the mass, a little millet- flour is then added to make a sort of pudding. This is set in the sun to ferment, when it gives off a most offensive odour. In time this evaporates, and the paste is then hardened Gy being spread on mats made of rushes. As overgorged locusts are not always at hand for the preparation of this Arabian delicacy, the paste is made in bulk when the occasion is favourable, and dried quite hard for keeping. It then merely requires softening by moistening with water. CUSHION.—That part of the leg of an animal which is adjacent to and partly covered by the udder. CUSK.—A large sea-fish (Brosmius brosme), about the size of and allied to the cod (see Fig. 619). It frequents the northern coasts of Europe and America, but is not much known in this country. The flesh is firm and white, and in America it is sometimes supplied to table either cooked as cod, or as follows: Boiled Cusk with Cream Sauce (a la Creme).— Clean and wash a Cusk weighing about 51b. or 61b., put it into a saucepan of slightly-salted water, and cook gently for about twenty minutes. Lift it out on a drainer, carefully remove the skin and the head, turn the fish over on to a dish, scrape off the skin from this side, and remove all the small bones, which are in rows like pins in a paper, and extend- ing the length of the back, with a few in the lower part near the tail. Now remove the backbone, commencing at the head and working gently down towards the tail, taking CUSSY.—The name of a soup composed principally of Spanish onions boiled in meat stock. It is supposed to have originated at the village of Cussy, in France. CUSSY CAKE.—So called after the famous Marquis de Cussy. See Cakes. CUSTARDS.—These are essentially English prepa- rations, made chiefly of eggs, sugar, and milk mixed together in various proportions. They may be either baked or boiled, and with or without a crust. To the crust, or croustade, is probably due the corrupted name. In France they were at one time known only as Cremes a l’Anglaise; but to Careme is due some slight alteration in the composition, such as the addition of gelatine, hence they are no longer English creams, but vanilla creams, chocolate creams, lemon creams, &c., according to flavour. Baked Custard.—(1) Boil a handful of peach-leaves with lqt. of milk ; when the milk is cold strain it, and mix in sib. of caster sugar; then beat eight eggs very lightly and stir them in gradually. Pour the Custard in a buttered pie- dish, grate nutmeg on the top, and bake for kalf-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. (2) Beat six eggs with If breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and add lqt. of scalded milk. Strain the Custard into a buttered pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold. Baked Custard with Caramel Sauce.—Beat in a jug the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, stand the jug in a saucepan of hot water, sweeten and flavour to taste, and stir over the fire till the Custard is thick. Put a few lumps of white sugar in a small enamelled saucepan, with sufficient water to moisten it, and set it on the stove till it has a golden tinge, then take it off at once, or it will turn black. When it has turned brown, which will take a minute or so, add more water, but not enough to make it taste watery; turn the saucepan about till it is lined all round with the caramel, pour in the Custard, put on the lid, with a few live embers on the top, and cook gently for about half-an-hour. Serve hot or cold. Boiled Custard.—(1) Beat in a basin the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs with lqt. of milk, sweetening and flavouring to taste ; put this into a jug, stand it in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and stir the Custard over the fire till thick. Let it get cold, pour into glasses, grate a little nutmeg over each, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs, add 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt, pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, put all into a jug, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir till the Custard is thick ; then turn it into a glass dish. Beat the whites of the eggs till stiff, put it on a sieve, and pour boiling water over. This will cook it. Drain well and pile it in a rocky form on the cold Custard. A little chopped preserved fruit may be inter- mixed with the whipped white of egg. (3) Cut off very thinly the yellow rind of half a lemon, put it into a saucepan with f pint of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Break three eggs into a bowl, beat them till they are very light, and add 2oz. of loaf sugar. When the milk has been twenty minutes at the side of the fire and has got hot, take it off the stove, and let it cool a little; then pour it through a strainer over the eggs and sugar in the bowl, stir well, and turn it into a jug ; stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water on the stove and stir till thick ; then take itTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 508 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Custards—continued. out of the hot water and put it away till cold. A table- spoonful of brandy is sometimes mixed with it. When it is cold, it may be poured into Custard-glasses and a little nutmeg grated on top. Burnt Custard.—Beat the yolks of six eggs till very light together with 6oz. of powdered white sugar. Put 3 pints of milk over the fire, and as soon as it boils remove it, and add it by degrees to the beaten eggs. Set this over the fire, and stir it constantly till thick. Remove from the fire without letting it boil, turn it into a bowl, stir for a few minutes, add about 20 drops of vanilla or other flavouring, and let it stand till perfectly cold. Put it into a deep glass dish, and pile on it the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 6oz. of powdered white sugar and a flavouring of the same extract as the Custard has been flavoured with. Brown with a salamander, and serve. Cold Custard.—Beat the yolks of four eggs with 1 pint of milk, turn it into a saucepan, and add 1 table-spoonful of pounded bitter almonds, ioz. of isinglass, and sugar to taste. Stir the Custard over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved, but do not let it boil ; then strain it through a fine hair sieve and pour it into a mould. When set and quite cold, the Custard can be turned out and served. Custard Cake, or Fain.—Butter the interior of a flat tin, and line it with bread-dough, raising it all round the edges. Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir in gradually three well-beaten eggs and 1 pint of milk ; stir this until quite smooth, then pour it into the lined tin, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a brisk oven until evenly coloured. Serve either hot or cold. Custard Cream.—Sweeten J pint of boiling cream, pour it over the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, whisk thoroughly, put it into a stewpan, and stir over a slow fire until the Custard is thick. Turn it out, let it cool, and flavour with vanilla or lemon essence, or with a little brandy. Soak joz. of gelatine in cold water, then dissolve it in i teacupful of boiling milk, and mix it with the cream. Pour it into a mould, and let it remain for a day before serving. Custards in Cups or Glasses.—Beat together in a basin \ teacupful of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs and whites of two, and add slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stirring continually. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls more of milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, pour it over the beaten Fig. 620. Custards in Cups. mixture, set the basin in a pan of hot water, and stir over the fire for about five minutes, by which time it should be thick; then work in \ teaspoonful of salt, and set it away to cool. Add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon flavouring, or half the quantity of almond, pour the Custard into Custard-cups or glasses, and serve. See Fig. 620. Custard Cup-Pudding1.—Beat up an egg in a basin, pour it into a well-buttered cup, and fill up with milk. Put the cup into a saucepan over the fire with enough boiling water to reach half-way up, and boil slowly for twenty minutes. Have ready a hot plate, turn the Custard out on it, and serve at once with sugar. Custard Fritters.—Boil J pint of milk with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar ; mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour and 1 table- spoonful of wheat-flour with a little cold milk, pour it in with the boiling milk, and stir over the fire till thick. Beat in a small piece of butter and the yolks of two eggs, flavour to taste, add £ saltspoonful of salt, take it off the fire, and let Custards—continued. it get cold. When cold, cut the Custard into thick slices, roll these in beaten egg, dip them in baked and crushed bread- crumbs, and fry them to a golden colour in hot lard. Prepare a glaze by mixing together 1 table-spoonful of cornflour, 1 teacupful of sugar, and f pint of water, and boil till thick ; then add 2 wineglassfuls of rum or curac;oa. Dish up the hot fritters, and pour the glaze over them. See Fig. 621. Custard-and-Jam Pudding.—Put lj pints of milk into a lined saucepan with loz. of gelatine, and stir over the fire until the latter is dissolved ; then mix in 2oz. of blanched and chopped sweet almonds and the beaten yolks of five eggs. Stir the Custard at the side of the fire until thick, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. Let the Custard cool, then line gradually with it a mould packed in ice. When the Custard has firmly set all over the interior of the Fig. 622. Custard-and-Jam Pudding. mould, lay in that a layer of any kind of jam, next a layer of sponge cakes that have been soaked in brandy, then another layer of jam, and so on until the mould is almost full. Fill up the remaining space with more of the Custard retained for this purpose, pack the mould in ice, and leave it for several hours. When about to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the pudding on to a fancy dish. See Fig. 622. Custard Pie.—Line a pie-dish with crust; put six eggs into a bowl, beat them till they are quite light, add to them 2oz. of finely-powdered white sugar and 1| pints of milk, and mix well; pour this into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Take it out, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. If it is to be served cold, stand it in cold water in a cool place, for if it does not cool at once the crust gets soaked and spoiled. Custard Pies without Eggs, or Baltimore Butter Pie.— Pour lqt. of milk into a saucepan, add 6oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and boil; then stir in 4oz. of flour mixed with 12oz. of sugar, and beat well with a whisk until the preparation thickens, when the pan must at once be removed from the fire. Line two deep pie-dishes with a thin layer of puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a slack oven until the Custard commences to rise in the centre. Take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Custard Posset.—Put 1 pint of new milk into a saucepan, and let it nearly boil. Beat in a basin the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, and powdered loaf sugar; add the hot milk and a little hot wine, and mix well by pouring it from one pan to another. It is then ready for use, and should be served hot.509 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. Custards—continued. Custard Pudding1.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar in a tin pudding-mould, and move it about on the stove until it begins to brown. When the mould is completely lined with the sugar, pour in 1 pint of milk boiled with the peel of half a lemon and four eggs beaten in with it, and sweeten to taste. Put the mould in a saucepan with hot water to half its height, let the water simmer gently for half-an-hour, turn the pudding out of the mould, and serve hot. (2) Lay some thin slices of bread-and-butter in a pie-dish; beat the yolks of ten eggs mixed with 3 pints of milk, add sugar to taste, pour the Custard over the bread, bake, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs and a little caster sugar to a stiff froth, pour them over the top of the Custard, and stand it in the oven for a few minutes to brown the surface. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan, add the well-beaten yolks of eight and the whites of six eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, a little ratafia, and sugar to taste. Place the pan on the fire, boil gently for forty-five minutes, pour it out on to a dish, and serve. (4) Put into a basin jib. of sugar, break in five eggs, and with a whisk beat well for two minutes; add lqt. of cold milk, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and mix well together for one minute longer. Butter and sugar well six small dariole-moulds, strain the preparation into another basin, Fig. 623. Custard Puddings. pour it into the moulds, arrange these in a tin pan filled to half the height of the moulds with warm, but not boiling, water, place them in a moderate oven, and steam for forty minutes. Remove from the oven, and turn them on to a hot dish, serving with cream sauce poured round them. See Fig. 623. (5) Break six eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites ; boil lqt. of milk with 6oz. of sugar, pour it by degrees (stirring all the time) upon the yolks of the eggs, which should have been beaten while the milk and sugar were boiling. Beat the whites of three eggs and stir them in gradually, flavour with a few drops of essence of ratafia or vanilla, pour the Custard into an earthenware dish, set this in a pan of water in the oven, and bake till the Custard is stiff. Take it from the oven, let it get cold, and serve. (6) Beat eight eggs well with Jib. of sugar and a little grated nutmeg, put them into a saucepan with jib. of butter, set it over a slow fire, stir till thick, then pour it into a basin to cool. Lay a strip of rich puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, pour the pudding into it, lay some thin slices of candied orange-peel and citron on the top, and bake in a moderately hot oven. (7) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, and beat the yolks well with 1 pint of milk and 2oz. of caster sugar; whip the whites of two of the eggs to a stiff snow with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir in lightly with the yolks. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a thick layer of apricot jam, strew grated breadcrumbs over it, pour the Custard in care- fully, and bake in a moderate oven. When the Custard has set, whip the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth with a few drops of essence of vanilla and If table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and spread it over the top of the Custard. Return the dish to the oven until lightly browned on the top, and serve cold. (8) Put lqt. of milk over the fire; beat up the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of powdered white sugar, and when the milk has boiled add it by degrees to the beaten eggs; then stir in a very little salt, put it over the fire again, mix in 1 table- spoonful of ground rice blended with a little cold water, and let it boil, continuing to stir for one minute. Take it from Custards—continued. the fire, pour it into a buttered pudding-dish, and set in the oven in a pan of boiling water. Beat the whites of six eggs, together with 2oz. of sugar and a flavouring of vanilla, to a stiff froth ; when the pudding is almost, but not quite, done, draw it towards the door of the oven, and without taking it out, drop this froth all over it in large spoonfuls, making it as rocky as possible. Do this very quickly, push the pudding back into the oven immediately, shut the door, and let it hake for about five minutes longer, or until quite done and the meringue slightly browned. Serve cold, with powdered white sugar sprinkled over the top. Custard flavoured with Rum.—Put loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold milk, soak it for fifteen minutes, and then stir it over the fire until dissolved. Rub 6oz. of loaf sugar on the yellow rind of two lemons, and put into the boiling milk. Beat the yolks of nine eggs with 1 pint of milk, pour it into the saucepan with the milk and gelatine, and stir the whole over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it off, and continue stirring until nearly cold. The Custard must not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. When quite cold, mix in 2 wineglassfuls of rum. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour in the Custard, and pack it in ice. When about to serve, dip the mould into tepid water, wipe it, and turn the custard on to a dish with an ornamental dish-paper ; squeeze over the juice of a lemon, taking care to keep out the pips, and serve. Custard Sauce.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar into a saucepan with loz. of blanched and chopped almonds, add two yolks of eggs and one white, 1 teacupful of milk, and a little lemon, vanilla, or other flavouring (according to the flavour of the pudding with which it is to be served), and whisk carefully over the fire until it is frothy and hot, but on no account must it boil. It is then ready for use. (2) Beat two eggs till very light, pour them into a quart jug, add f pint of milk, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir till the Custard begins to thicken. Then take the jug from the boiling water, and stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the sauce is ready. (3) Put in an enamelled saucepan | pint of milk, one egg, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, and 8 drops of essence of vanilla. Whisk these over the fire till thick, but without boiling or it wrill curdle. Use as required. Custard Shape. —Soak Joz. of gelatine in | pint of milk for ten minutes, and add to it ilb. of sugar and another \ pint of milk. Pour all into a saucepan on the stove, and stir till it boils; then take the pan from the fire and let it cool. When almost cold, add j- pint of cream and 1tea- spoonfuls of essence of vanilla. Beat up the yolks of four eggs in a good-sized bowl, pour over the Custard, and mix; pour all back into the saucepan, put it on the stove, and let it gradually get very hot, stirring all the time ; but do not let it boil, or it will be spoilt. When very hot, take the saucepan off the stove again, and let the Custard cool, stir- ring it frequently meantime, or the gelatine will settle at the bottom. Wet a shape with cold water, pour the Custard into it, and let it set. When well set, turn out on to a dish, and garnish with red-currant jelly. Custard Souffle.—Boil | pint of milk ; mix 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour together, add gradu- ally to the boiling milk, and stir over the fire for eight minutes; beat 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar with the yolks of four eggs, stir them in with the milk and other things, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of the four eggs to a firm froth, mix them with the cold Custard, turn it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve while hot with a sweet sauce. Custard Tart.—Put 4oz. of powdered sugar into a basin, break in five eggs, and with a whisk beat together for three minutes; then add lqt. of cold milk, and flavour with 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon, mixing well for two minutes; then strain through a sieve into another basin. Line a deep tart-dish with paste, fill it with the preparation, place in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Remove, and let it get cold. Cut the tart into six equal pieces, place these on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Custard Tart witli Meringue.—Mix to a smooth paste 3^ table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 teacupful of milk, the yolks of510 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Custards—continued. four eggs and the white of one ; add fib. of sugar and loz. of butter, and pour in gradually 1J pints of milk with the grated peel of an orange; stir this over the fire till boiling, then remove from the fire and let it get cold. Line a mould with puff paste, pour in the Custard, and bake for lialf-an-hour ; then let it cool. Beat the whites of three of the eggs, and when firm, mix with 3oz. of caster sugar. Spread the egg and sugar over the tart, sprinkle caster sugar on the top, put it in a slow oven, and when a light yellow serve. Custard Toast.—Break an egg into a basin, and beat it till it is very light. Cut a slice of bread rather less than -jin. thick, toast it a light brown on both sides, lay it on a hot plate, and spread it with about Joz. of butter. Put into a saucepan loz. of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and Joz. of butter, and stir over the fire till it boils; draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, let the boil go off, and pour slowly over the beaten egg, stirring all the time. When well stirred, pour it over the buttered toast, and serve at once. Custard Toast called Scotch Woodcock.—Beat well the yolks of three eggs, pour them into a saucepan with f break- fast-cupful of milk, and stir over the fire until thickened, without boiling. Cut four slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them to a pale brown. Butter the toast, spread some anchovy paste over, lay it on a hot dish, pour the Custard over, and serve while very hot. Durham Custard.—Beat the yolks of four eggs in a sauce- pan, pour in lqt. of cream and f pint of mild ale, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but without boiling, or the eggs will curdle. Cut some thin slices of bread, toast them, trim into small squares, lay these at the bottom of a hot dish, pour the Custard over, and serve. French Custard.—Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of potato-flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold milk ; when smooth add gradually £ pint of boiling milk sweetened with loz. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire until thick ; then add two well-beaten eggs, flavour to taste, and keep it over the fire for four or five minutes. Turn the Custard into a basin and let it get cold, giving it an occasional stir to prevent a skin forming on the top. Serve cold. Jamaica Custard.—Grate Jib. of cheese into a pie-dish, stir J in a beaten egg and sufficient milk to mix well until about the thickness of a rich Custard. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. Serve the Custard hot, -accompanied with mustard and pepper. Jelly Custards.—Make a boiled Custard with 1 pint of milk, three beaten eggs, and Jib. of powdered white sugar, and let it stand till cold. Flavour to taste with vanilla, ratafia, or lemon, pour it into Custard- or jelly-glasses, but only fill them I two-thirds full, and heap up one half of them with raspberry | or red-currant jelly and the other half with orange or lemon jelly. Quaking Custard.—Beat the yolks of three eggs with 3 table- j spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt, pour over 1 pint of hot milk, and cook in a double-boiler till thick. Soak 2 table-spoonfuls of gelatine in cold water, and mix with the j Custard, having first drained off the water. Strain the Custard into a mould. When about to serve, beat the whites of the J three eggs stiff with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar and the juice | of one lemon. Turn the Custard on to a glass dish, heap the meringue round it, and serve. I Custards—continued. Savoury Custard Soup.—Beat the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and add J pint of white stock and 1 pinch of salt. When well beaten, butter a jar, pour in the mixture, stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water to half its height, and steam for twenty minutes, or until the Custard is firm. When cold, turn it out, cut in dice, and serve in clear soup. Spanish Custard.—Sweeten lqt. of milk to taste with caster sugar, and boil it; then take it off the fire and stir in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot. Flavour it with a small quantity of essence of almonds or noyeau, and add Joz. of isinglass. Stir the Custard in one direction over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and place the Custard in a cool place till set and quite cold. Turn it on to a dish, stick it all over with blanched and shredded almonds, and serve. See Fig. 624. Sponge Custard.—Soak Joz. of gelatine, for ten minutes at least, in enough cold water to cover it. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar for fifteen minutes. Warm 1 pint of milk, stir it into the beaten eggs and sugar, pour all into a saucepan on the stove, and stir till thick ; then remove it from the fire. Add to the soaked gelatine 1 table- spoonful of boiling water, and set the bowl it is in into a pan of hot water. When the gelatine is completely dissolved, stir it into the eggs and milk, flavour to taste with essence of vanilla or lemon, and put it away to cool. As soon as it commences to stiffen, beat it thoroughly with an egg-whisk. Beat also to a stiff froth the whites of one or two eggs, and add it by degrees to the sponge. Continue beating thoroughly and quickly till quite spongy; then wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the Custard into it, and let it stand in a cold place till it is quite firm, in hot water to loosen it, and turn it on to a glass dish. CUSTARD APPLES. —These are the fruit of a low-growing tree or shrub, indigenous to tropical Ame- rica, of the genus Anona. The fruit is of a roundish ovate shape (see Fig. 625) about the size of a small orange, and contains a soft, yellowish, juicy pulp, which is considered very pleasant and refreshing. It is occa- sionally imported into this country, but, like most rare foreigners, has not found much favour. CUTLERY.—This term is used to signify all manner of cutting instruments. Those used at table or for culinary purposes will be found described under their special headings. CUTLETS.—These are literally small ribs, being a corruption of the French word cotelettes. See Fig. 626. Fig. 626. Cutlet, Untrimmed. It is often applied by modern cooks to slices of meat, especially of lamb, mutton, or veal, which are neatly To turn it out, dip the mouldTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 511 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Cutlets—continued. trimmed or otherwise tastily prepared for cooking. Artistic cooks literally revel in the preparation, cooking, and arranging of Cutlets, and it must be acknowledged that in the hands of a master there are few portions of meat that admit of more exquisite treatment. The fat is carefully trimmed off the bone, the sides beaten level and smooth with a Cutlet-bat (see Pig. 627), and a piece of the bone left projecting as a sort of fanciful handle, which is carefully scraped and cleaned, and afterwards ornamented with a frill (see Fig. 628). Imitation Cutlets are frequently made of various force- meats, especially of fish, such as crab- or lobster-meat. To give these the required shape, Cutlet-moulds or cutters (see Fig. 629) are used, the moulds being merely a modifi- cation of the cutter, having a bottom, so that the force- meat can be packed in, instead of being cut from a sheet. The cutters can be used as moulds if laid on a baking- sheet. Cutlets are sometimes studded (cloute) with truffles, as follows : A hole is made through the flesh with a steel, Fig. 629. Sets of Cutlet-cutters. and pieces of truffles cut into shreds of particular shapes are thrust into the holes thus made. When all are set, the ends are cut off flat with a sharp knife, and care must be taken to dish the Cutlets with the clout^s sides outward or uppermost. Cutlets en papillote are Cutlets folded in heai’t-shaped papers. For descriptions of various Cutlets, see special headings. CUTTERS.—Of these there are a great diversity of shapes and sizes made for a variety of purposes. They will be found described under their respective headings. CUVEES.—A French word meaning the different times or periods at which certain wines were made or fermented in cask (cuve). It is used in much the same sense as we use the word “ vintage,” although with a much more re- stricted signification. It is also used in a sense somewhat analogous to our English word “cask” or “caskful.” CUYOS.—Di ■inking cups made of the rind of the cala- bash or gourd. The fruit is cut into halves, the pulp is taken out, and the rind reduced to the requisite thinness by scraping. When the rinds or shells are sufficiently dry, they are painted both inside and out with various devices. They are commonly used in Brazil. CUYTE BEER.—A beer made in Brussels during the fifteenth century. It was then the best of the beers made there; but in course of time it seems to have become so depreciated in quality that, according to historians, a heavy fine was inflicted on all tavern keepers who i sold it. CYDER.—See Cider. CYGNETS.—These are young swans, deriving their name from the French cygne, a swan. When quite young the flesh is said to be very tasty and tender. They are usually roasted or stewed. Roasted Cygnet.—Pick, clean, and truss a Cygnet in the same way as a goose; chop finely 21b. of rump-steak, season with spice, minced onion, and a little butter. Rub the breast of the bird inside and out with bruised c'oves, put in the meat stuffing, sew up carefully, and tie tightly on the spit, covering the breast with meal paste, and wrapping buttered paper round it. About twenty minutes before the bird is done, take off the paper and paste, and baste till brown with butter and flour. When serving, pour over a strong beef gravy mixed with | pint of port wine, and serve with hot red-currant jelly. Stewed Cygnet.—Clean and truss a Cygnet like a turkey, tie over it rashers of fat bacon, and roast for one hour. Put at the bottom of a stewpan two sliced onions, two blades of mace, one carrot, one head of celery, £lb. of butter, 4 teaspoonfuls of soy, f pint of mushroom ketchup, 1 pint of port wine, and 1 pint of gravy; put the bird in this, and let it simmer gently for about an-hour-and-a-half, by which time it should be quite tender. Dish the bird when done, and set it near the fire to keep warm. Reduce the liquor in which it was cooked, and when boiling, add ^lb. of sultana l'aisins, a little lemon-juice, and cayenne. Mix a little butter and flour together, boil it with the sauce until thick, strain it over the bird, and serve. CYLINDER MOULDS.—This term is so frequently used in culinary parlance that it requires some explana- tion. The word cylinder is not intended to apply so much to the external shape of the mould as to a cup-like Fig. 630. Cylinder Mould. depression in the centre of the bottom (see Fig. 630), which admits of some other delicacy being inserted, and piled up if desired, such as whipped cream in a blanc-mange, cake, or jelly, and finely-shredded salad in a shape of savoury forcemeat or jelly. CYMLINGS.—A variety of the genus Cucurbita, the family to which belong also all the other varieties of pumpkins, melons, &c., which are in America popularly denominated “ squashes.” See Squashes.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 512 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. CYPRUS WINES.—Cyprus lias long been cele- brated for the superior quality of its grapes, from which are prepared both “ sweet ” and “ common ” wines. The sweet wines are Morocanella, Xynisteri, and Commanderia. The best of these wines require to be from five to ten years old. In their preparation the grapes are exposed to the heat of the sun for several days after they are gathered, in order to develop the saccharine matter in them. For the common wine the grapes are pressed as soon as they are gathered. This wine is largely exported to Egypt, Syria, and Trieste; it is coarse and heady. Being kept formerly in jars and skins coated inside with tar to prevent them from leaking, Cyprus Wines were notable for a strong taste of tar; but now wooden casks are used instead of the tarred jars, rendering the wine more fitted for the market. CZARINA SAUCE.—See Sauces. Dace—continued. Dace with a black nose. Dace would be very delicious eating if it were not for the numerous small bones with which the body abounds. They are nearly always in season, excepting in March and April. They are some- times dipped in batter and fried, but the style of cooking them advocated by good cooks is as follows : Stewed Dace.—Scale the Dace, cut off their gills, wash them well in plenty of water, dry on a cloth, flour them, and fry lightly in boiling butter. Put j pint of claret in a stew- Fig. 632. Dace. DABS (Fr. Limandes; (hr. Blieschen).—These fish are not reckoned amongst the aristocrats of the dinner-table, although, when tastily cooked, there are few fish that afford better results, especially if previously boned or filleted. They are a species of flounder [Pleuronectes limanda), and are called Dabs (see Fig. 631) because of the masterly rapidity with which they dab or dive under Fig. 631. Dab. the sand. They are commonly caught along the shore of the English Channel, and in the mouths of rivers, or so far up as they are tidal. The American Rough Dab is a variety of the European. Instructions given for preparing and cooking Flounders will be found equally applicable to Dabs. Fried Dabs.—Scrape and clean five or six large Dabs, chop off their fins, slit them down the backs, remove the backbones, dust them over with salt and pepper, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them. When done and of a good colour, take them out, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of fried parsley and quarters of lemons for garnish. DABS.—Another name for Dodgers—so-called, because before baking they are small masses or “ dabs ” of moist dough. See Cornflour. DABCHICKS.—Species of small water-birds (Podi- lymbus podiceps), that are so-called on account of their dexterity in diving. They are not much valued for the table, perhaps because of the difficulties that attend their capture, and the small return for much trouble. The flesh is tasty, but unless the birds are young it is apt to be hard and stringy. They are called variously in different parts of the country—Dapchick, Dopchick, Dip- chick, Didapper, Dobber, Devil-diver, Hell-diver, and Pied-billed Grebe. DACE (Fr. Yandoises; Ger. Weissfisch).—This pretty little silvery river-fish (Leuciscus vulgaris) (see Fig. 632) is common in almost all rivers, and takes its name from its rapid dart-like movements. The term Dace, or Dare as it is sometimes called, being a supposed corruption of the word dart. The Americans boast of a species of pan, with a small quantity of sliced ginger, half blade of mace, two or three cloves, ^ saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, a little salt, and one sliced orange. When this boils, place the fish in the stewpan, put on the lid, and set it over a quick fire. The fish should be turned occasionally while stewing. When cooked put the fish on a hot dish, on some slices of oranges and croutons of fried bread. Put a lump of butter in the liquor the fish was cooked in and stir it till dissolved; then pour it over the fish, sprinkle over grated breadcrumbs fried in butter, and serve with slices of orange or lemon. DAINTIES AND DELICACIES. — These two words have, for want of better, become so intimately associated with all manner of culinary productions that they may now be considered a part of the culinary vocabulary. According to Webster’s Dictionary these words are compared as denoting articles of food. The term Delicacy is applied to a nice article of any kind, and hence to articles of food which are particularly attractive. Dainty is stronger, and denotes some exquisite article of cookery. In this sense the terms are used by the poets Milton, Cowper, and others. Milton wrote: These Delicacies— I mean of taste, sight, smell, herbs, fruits and flowers, Walks, and the melody of birds. Cowper, referring to a table, wrote: Furnished plenteously with bread And Dainties, remnants of the last regale. DAIRY (Fr. Laiterie ; Ger. Milchkammer ; Ital. Cas- cina; Sp. Quesera).—It is so very usual to associate the word maid with our British Dairies, that it modifies to some extent our natural surprise that the term for a milk, cheese, and butter department is derived from the Old English deie or daie, which signifies a maid or servant. This curious definition of the term Dairy can only be due to the employment of domestic servants in this work ; hence we have Dairy-maid, Dairy-man, Dairy-woman, and so on. The term is so thoroughly accepted now, that, as we have not agreed upon any other to use in its place, we content ourselves with the very inappropriate name we have adopted. A Dairy is interpreted as signifying a place where milk is kept and made into butter and cheese. At one time almost every farmhouse was fitted with such a Dairy, but the advance of modern enterprise has so far improved upon the butter- and cheese-making industries that they are worked upon such a huge system as to render small, or private Dairies, either injudicious or unnecessary. The term Dairy has therefore become in a sense modified, and now applies to the chambers in which milk is stored. Of whatever magnitude the Dairy may be, it is advisable that it should have a northerly aspect, in order that it may be sheltered from the sun during the heat of the day. This is not always possible, the Dairy-keeper513 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saxices, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Dairy—continued. having to depend upon ventilation and other resources to keep down the temperature within. From 45deg. to 55deg. Fahr. is considered a good medium temperature, | in which milk can be preserved whilst preparing or col- lecting for manufacturing purposes. Much information I on this subject will be found under such headings as Butter, Cheese, Cream, Milk, and it will only be necessary here to give a few suggestions for the better working of the Dairy. The windows should be fitted with shutters or doors, and the walls built of a double thickness if possible. Large Dairies are built in com- I partments, all of which are kept separate by doors: the room where the milk is stored is therefore called the milk-room ; a second the churning-room; a third the clieese-room, in which the cheeses are pressed; and a fourth the drying-room, where cheeses are set to harden and ripen. Then follow the usual addenda in the form of a sort of covered scullery, furnished with a boiler and water supply for scalding and cleansing the Dairy utensils. One of the most important features of good Dairy- keeping is scrupulous cleanliness. This should be especially observed in the milking of cows, the milk- maid being most careful to see that her hands are clean before milking, and that she cleanses them again after ! milking is done. There are many more details to be learned by practice and tuition that require a volume to themselves, and cannot, therefore, be treated with suf- ficient exhaustiveness in this Encyclopaedia. DAL.—Hind, for split pulse, such as grain, lentils, or haricot beans, from which numerous dishes are made, one of these being a famous curry. Dal Curry. — Clean, pick, wash, and roast lib. of Dal, and add 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced onion, a clove of garlic, 1 saltspoonful each of turmeric and ground ginger, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of ground chillies. Put two onions cut in slices into a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry them brown and crisp. Put the Dal and the other ingredients with the fried onions into a saucepan and cover them with water to about 2in. above them. Set the pan on the fire and boil, without stirring, until the Dal is dissolved. Pass all through a sieve with the melted butter in which the onions were previously fried into a saucepan, stir well, cover over the pan, and simmer for twenty minutes; then serve with more cooked onions floating on the top. DAMP NOUILLES.—See Nouilles. DAMIAN A.—A plant of the Turnera genus, from which Indian hunters make a decoction supposed to give them unwonted strength in their expeditions. In Mexico it is regarded as a cure for all the ills that flesh is heir to. DAMKORF PUDDING.—See Puddings. DAMSONS.—In all other countries where this fruit is found, it is known as the Damas, Damascus, or Damas- Fig. 633. Damsons. cene Plum. It may be described as a small oval plum of a blue colour (see Fig. 633), the fruit of the Primus domesticus. It is also known as the Damask Plum, and Damsons—continued. is quite unfit for the table until cooked, or preserved with much sugar. The juice is then exceedingly rich flavoured and luscious, and the colour so deep as to lend itself to many forms of garnishing. Bottled Damsons.—Boil some syrup to 22deg., and then move it off the fire. Wipe and prick the required quantity of fine ripe Damsons, put them in the syrup, stand the pan over a smothered fire, simmer for fifteen minutes, and turn all in a basin. On the following day put the Damsons in bottles, boil the syrup up again, pour it over them, cork, and tie down. Candied Knots of Damson Paste.—Pick and wipe over sufficient Damsons to make lib. of pulp when boiled with i pint of water and then passed through a fine hair sieve, and put them in a preserving-pan. Boil 14oz. of crushed loaf sugar to the ball degree, then mix the Damson pulp in with it, and stir the whole over the fire till reduced to a stiff paste. Turn the paste on to a bright sheet of tin to about Jin. in thickness, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and set it in a screen of a moderate heat to dry for five or six hours. At the end of that time turn the paste over with a knife, and leave it for an hour or two longer to dry the other side. When the paste is cold, cut it into strips about Gin. long and |in. wide, and tie these into knots (see Fig. 634), or make them to represent the figure 8. As they are done, place them upon wire trays, set them in the screen, and dry them for an hour. Pack the knots in layers in boxes between sheets of paper, or else in wide-mouthed, well-stoppered glass bottles. Compote of Damsons.—Put Jib. of loaf sugar and 1 pint of water into an enamelled pan, and place it on the fire. When the sugar has dissolved, add the white of an egg, remove the scum as it rises, and boil the syrup for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Now drop in slowly lqt. of sound, ripe Damsons, and when these are soft (the skins should not be broken), strain off the syrup, and Boil it again till rather thick ; then stand it aside, and let it cool. Arrange the Damsons in a glass dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve with whipped cream separately. Damson-and-Apple Shapes.—Core, peel, and slice ljlb. of cooking apples, put them in a stewpan with lqt. of Damson juice, stir Jib. of powdered loaf sugar into this, and when it is dissolved boil for ten minutes. Turn it into small moulds, and when cold they are ready to be put on glass dishes to serve. Damson-and-Bullace Jelly.—Pick over and wipe some ripe Damsons and about one-third the quantity of bullaces, cut them all lengthwise with a knife, and put them in a large stone jar; cover with paper, tie down, set the jar in the oven, and leave it there for some hours. Strain off the juice, measure it, boil it quickly for half-an-hour, and then add lib. of crushed preserving-sugar to every quart of juice ; boil and skim until the jelly will set. Put into moulds, bottles, or jars. Damson Cheese.-—Boil 61b. of Damsons in lqt. of water till they are tender, and then rub the fruit through a coarse hair sieve. Boil 61b. of sugar and 1 pint of water to the ball degree, add the Damson pulp and a few of the blanched kernels of the stones, stir over a brisk fire, and boil sharply for twenty or twenty-five minutes. When the cheese is stiff and drops slowly from the spoon, pour it into moulds. To serve, turn into a glass dish, and garnish as desired with crystallised fruits.514 TILE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Damsons—continued. Damson Cream Ice.—Put 1 pint of Damsons in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil until soft; then pass them through a fine hair sieve, keeping back the stones. Mix the Damson pulp with 1 pint each of thick syrup and thick cream, turn the mixture into the freezer, and work it over ice until frozen. Turn the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice; let it set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it on a cloth, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Damson Jam.—Pick and wipe some Damsons, and stir over a slow fire until soft enough to be mashed; then take them off, and pass through a fine cane sieve. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels, and mix them with the Damson pulp. Boil with each pound of pulp lib. of preserving-sugar, remove the scum, and put the jam into pots. When cold, cover the pots with paper dipped in brandy, and tie down. Damson - Jam Pudding.—Line a buttered basin with a pudding-crust, put in alternately a layer of Damson jam and a layer of the crust, until the basin is full. Boil the pudding for half-an-hour, turn it out, and serve while hot. Damson Paste.—Pick and wipe some sound ripe Damsons, put them into a stewpan with water just sufficient to wet the bottom of the pan, and boil and stir until well reduced; then pass them through a sieve. To each pound of pulp take lib. of crushed loaf sugar, clarify it, and boil to the feather degree. Mix the pulp with the syrup, keep it over the fire for a short time, pour it into shallow tins, cut it into the desired shapes, and pack between layers of paper in a box. Damson Pastille Drops.—Boil a few Damsons with a little water, and when tender rub them through a sieve. Boil loz. of this pulp with 4oz. of coarsely-sifted sugar and 1 table-spoonful of water. When the sugar is dissolved, stir over the fire for a couple of minutes with a wooden spoon ; then take the pan from the fire, still stirring, hold the pan in the left hand, and with a curved piece of wire cut the paste as it pours out into drops the size of small Damsons, and let them fall in close rows on a sheet of stiff paper. When they are quite firm turn the paper upside down, and brush the reverse side over with a little water, so that the drops will shake off easily on to a sieve, and move this backwards and forwards over a slow fire to thoroughly dry. Put them in glass bottles, cork down tightly, and keep in a dry place. They are a very nice garnish for sweet entremets. A small quantity only should be made at one time. Damsoil Pie.—Scald the required quantity of Damsons, and when they are cool, remove the stones. Line a buttered pie-dish with a short-paste, put in the Damsons, add moist sugar to sweeten, sift a little flour over them, cover with more paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve- hot with custard. Damson Sauce.—Wash and put in a preserving-pan 71b. of Damsons, 1 pint of vinegar, and 3|lb. of brown sugar, heat slowly, and boil gently until the skins of the fruit begin to burst; skim out the fruit, add to the syrup 4in. of stick cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of whole cloves, and two blades of mace, and continue to boil until a little of it will jelly when cooled. Put the Damsons into jars, strain the syrup, and pour it over them hot; when cool, close the jars, and seal them air-tight. This sauce is a good substitute for red-currant jelly for game, venison, &c. Damson Tart.—Wipe the required quantity of fine sound Damsons, pricking those that are not quite ripe, put them in a stewpan, and cover with syrup that has been boiled to the thread degree. There should be sufficient syrup for the Damsons to float. Set the pan on the side of the fire until the skins of the Damsons burst, then remove it and let them remain to soak in the syrup until next day. Strain off the syrup, add more sugar and water if required, and boil it without the fruit to the large thread degree ; then skim the syrup, put in the fruit, and boil. Stand the pan off the fire, and the next day drain off the syrup again, boil it to the large pearl degree, put the Damsons in once more, and boil them for three minutes. Next skim it, and then turn all into pans, and the fruit will be ready to be put in tart-paste as required. Damson Water Ice.— (1) Put lqt. of clean Damsons in'a pan with | pint of thin syrup, boil them to a pulp, add a little cochineal, strain all through a fine sieve, and freeze. Damsons—continued. (2) Mix together lqt. of Damson pulp, li pints of syrup, and one white of egg of Italian meringue paste. Put the mixture into a freezer and freeze, scraping the ice that adheres to the sides back into the middle with a spatula. Continue this operation till all the contents are frozen, and use as desired. Damson Wine.—(1) Gather 161b. of Damsons on a dry day, bruise them, and put them into a tub with a tap in it, adding 2galls. of boiling water. After two days’ soaking, draw off the liquor into a 2-fgall, cask, and add 51b. of crushed loaf sugar. Cover the bung-hole until the fermentation has somewhat subsided, bung down, and keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months; then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar in each bottle, and cork the bottles well. It will be fit for use in two months after bottling. (2) Boil 321b. of moist sugar with lOIgalls. of water and the whites of ten well-beaten eggs, not omitting to skim it. When it has boiled for half-an-hour, add 321b. of ripe Damsons, previously picked and stoned, stir well, and boil for another half-an-hour; then skim again, and strain it into a cooler. When at the proper temperature, put in some fresh yeast spread on bread, and let it work for three or four days. Draw off the liquor clear of sediment, and put it into a cask; strain the lees into the cooler, and fill up the cask with it, allowing the wine to work out at the bung-hole. When the hissing noise of fermentation has ceased, put in lqt. of French brandy, stop the cask up securely, and paste stout paper over the bung. In six months rack it off into another cask, filter the lees through thick flannel, and fill the cask with it. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 2qts. of the wine, put it in the cask with the remainder, bung down tightly, and keep it for two years ; then bottle, and wax over the cox-ks. This wine is improved by keeping' for two years after it has been bottled. (3) Pick 3jgalls. of Damsons on a dry day, take out about one-third of their stones, crack them, put them into a tub with the fruit, pour over a boiling syrup made with 3Jgalls. of water and 71b. of sugar, and stir well. Let this get cool, then add 1 gill of yeast, cover over the tub with a thick cloth or blanket, and let it remain for four days. Skim well, strain and press out as much of the liquor as possible, pour it into a cask (brandy cask if it can be obtained), and add lib. of finely-chopped raisins. When the fermenting hissing noise stops, add a little gelatine or other fining-, and hung up the cask. Bottle it in about ten months. The kernels can be omitted and Joz. of essence of almonds stirred in when the wine has ceased fei-menting. Preserved Damsons.— (1) Wipe as many large Damsons as are required, cut a long slit lengthwise with a sharp-pointed knife in each, and put them in a warm place (on the hearth or somewhere near the fire) until the stones can easily be removed. Make a thick syrup with as many pounds of loaf sugar as of Damsons, put the fruit in this, and boil till they are quite tender. The stones may be cracked, and the kernels blanched and added if desired. Turn all into a large bowl till cool, then into glass jars, and cover tightly. (2) Remove all the stalks and unsound fruit from some Damsons, so as to have 4qts. of sound fruit, put this into a jar with 2|lb. of sugar, mix well, tie the jar over tightly, put it in a saucepan of cold water, bring it slowly to the boiling-point, and simmer gently for about an hour, or until the Damsons are soft and pulpy. Turn the whole into a sieve over a saucepan, strain off the juice without pressure, and boil it for about fifteen minutes ; then pour the fruit into pots or jars, and let it cool. Pass the liquor thi-ough a jelly-bag over the Damsons, cover over the pots, first with white paper soaked in brandy, then with bladder or paper damped with white of egg, and put them in a cool place until wanted. Preserved Pulp of Damsons.—Wipe and split lengthwise 61b. of Damsons, and put them in a preserving-pan ; crack the stones, and add the kernels, after blanching them, to the fruit; pour in % pint of water, and stir over the fire until the fruit is tender. Rub the pulp through a coarse sieve, and put it in a proserving-pan, together with 2oz. of loaf sugar to each pound of the pulp. When the sugar is dissolved by warming over the fire, bottle, cork, and tie down tightly.515 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. DANDELION {Fr. Dent-de-lion ; Ger. Lowenzahn).— Lion’s-tootli is the popular name for this plant (Tarax- acum officinale), on account of its deeply-notched leaves, which are supposed to resemble the teeth of a lion (see Fig. 635. Dandelion-plant. Fig. 635). It bears a very familiar large yellow flower, and tufts of fluffy seeds, which float in the air to great dis- tances. The plants grow very prolifically when allowed full liberty, and make a very pleasing salad, either by themselves or as an addition to other salads. The roots are much sought after for medicinal purposes, and are used for making Dandelion tea. The young leaves are best for salads, as they are not so bitter as those which are matured or have been exposed. Dandelion salad should be freshly gathered in the early morning, before the sun has toughened the fibre of the leaves. The root is sometimes roasted and ground to imitate coffee. Dandelion-and-Beetroot Salad.—The same as for Dande- lion Salad, only using half the quantity of Dandelion and two boiled beetroots cut into slices. Dandelion Salad.—Pare away the roots and stale leaves from lqt. of white Dandelion, wash thoroughly in two waters, drain on a cloth, and place in a salad-bowl. Dilute 1 pinch of salt and pinch of pepper with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, adding If table-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix thoroughly, pour over the salad, and serve. Any other salad vegetables may be added and mixed in with the Dandelion-leaves. Dandelion Salad a la Contoise.—Well wash lqt. of pared white Dandelion, using several waters, drain on a cloth, arrange in a salad-bowl, and season with salt and pepper. Cut 2oz. of bacon in dice-shaped pieces, put these in a frying- pan on the stove, let them get a good golden colour, which will take about five minutes, and add them to the salad. Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar into the pan, let it heat for half-a- minute, then pour it over all, mix well together, and serve. Dandelion Salad with Eggs.—Prepared the same as for Dandelion Salad, adding two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters when serving. Dandelion Sandwich.—Pound the remains of any cold cooked meat, poultry, or fish, in a mortar, mix in a small quantity of butter while pounding, and season to taste. Pick and wash some Dandelion-leaves, dry them on a cloth, spread the mix- ture on some thin slices of bread-and-butter, put a few of the Dandelion-leaves on top, and cover over with more slices. Cut the sandwiches into halves, quarters, triangles, or fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. For picnics, &c., these sandwiches are invaluable, as being' cut a long time before using, they are liable to become dry, which the Dandelion- leaves prevent and make them more palatable. Dandelion Tea.—Wash, cut off the leaves, and scrape the out- sides of six Dandelion-roots, cut them in small pieces, cover with boiling water, and let them stand all night; then strain off the liquor through muslin, and it is ready for use. Dandelion Wine.—This is not likely to be a popular beverage, having no quality in particular to recommend it. Put 4qts. of yellow Dandelion petals in a tub, pour over them lgall. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Dandelion—continued. of water that has previously been boiled and allowed to cool; cover the tub with a sack, and let it stand for three days, during which time it should be frequently stirred. Strain off the liquor and boil it for lialf-an-hour, with the addition of 3|lb. of loaf sugar, a little ginger, the rind of one orange, and a sliced lemon. Let the liquor cool, then ferment it with yeast on toast, let it stand for two days, and pour it into a cask. Leave for two months before bottling. Stewed Dandelion-leaves.—Pick the required quantity of leaves, wash well in plenty of cold water to thoroughly rid them of sand, and steep in water for about two hours; then drain, throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for twenty minutes, or longer if they are full- grown ones. When cooked, turn the leaves into a colander, and press well, to extract as much of the water as possible; then turn them on to a board and finely chop them. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, judging the quantity by that of the Dandelion, and place it over the fire until melted; next dredge in 1 teaspoonful of flour, and small quantities of salt and pepper; then put in the Dandelion- leaves, and stir them over the fire for ten minutes with a wooden spoon. At the end of that time, moisten them with a small quantity of broth, and continue stirring for ten minutes longer. Serve hot. Stewed Dandelion- and Sorrel-leaves. —- Pick off the withered and hard parts of an equal quantity of Dandelion- and sorrel-leaves, wash well, and shred them into fine strips. Keep the Dandelion- and sorrel-leaves separate, put the former into a copper stewpan, cover with boiling water, and stew till tender; then put in the sorrel, and simmer till the liquor has nearly all disappeared and the leaves are suffi- ciently soft; then beat them with a wooden spoon, drop in a small quantity of butter, and add pepper and salt to taste. Turn on to a dish, and garnish with sippets of fried bread and hard-boiled eggs. DANISH NOUGAT.—See Nougat. DANISH PUDDING.—See Puddings. DANTZIC.—The name given to a liqueur manufac- tured at Dantzic, but formerly prepared in Italy as Acqua d’Oro or Gold Water. Some very good imitations of it are prepared at Amsterdam, and others in France, Ger- many, and other parts of the Continent, as Eau d’Or and Gold Wasser. It is a bright colourless liquid with frag- ments of gold-leaf floating about in it, adding to the beauty if not the flavour of the liqueur. See Cordials and Liqueurs for Eau d’Or. DANTZIC BRANDY.—See Brandy. DANTZIC JELLY.—See Jellies. DARIOLES. — The literal meaning of this term is, according to some authorities, “ something produced from a dairy.” As dairy evidently originated from deie, a Fig. 636. Dariole-moulds (Mathews and Son). maiden, it is just possible that Dariole may be Deie-royal or Royal Maid, that is Maid-of-Honour. Although the term is not so much used in this country as it used to be, in France, and on the Continent generally, it is recognised 2 t % Sauces, d:c., referred to, see render their special heads,TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 516 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Darioles—continued. as a cream or cheese cake, which at once associates the name again with the cheese cakes so famous as Richmond Maids-of-Honour. Numerous receipts for the manufacture of various Darioles will be found throughout this Ency- clopaedia, the original principle, from which there are some variations, being that of lining a Dariole-mould (see Fig. 636) with thin paste and filling up with rich cream, or custard. (1) Put in a basin 2 teacupfuls of caster sugar flavoured with vanilla, 2 teacupfuls of flour, 2 teacupfuls of ground almonds, and break in two eggs; mix these ingredients together, then pass all through a sieve, and beat in 1| pints of milk. Butter and line some plain Dariole-moulds with rich short-paste, put a small piece of butter at the bottom of each, fill them up with the mixture, and stand them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven for half-an-hour; then turn them out, sprinkle over the top of each a little caster sugar flavoured with vanilla, and glaze them in the oven for five minutes. Serve cold on an ornamental dish-paper, and decorate with crystallised fruits on the top of each (see Pig. G37) and round the dish if desired. (2) Beat loz. of flour in a basin with one egg, and when quite smooth add the yolks of six eggs, 1 teacupful of caster sugar, \oz. of candied orange-flowers, and six crushed large macaroons ; beat one egg in pint of cream, and mix with the remainder. Butter and line very thinly twelve small Dariole-moulds with a thin layer of short-paste, fill them with the preparation, and stand on a baking-sheet in a quick oven. When done, turn out of the moulds on to a dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve while hot. (3) Put loz. of flour into a basin, and work in one egg; when smooth, add the yolks of six eggs, fib. of crushed loaf sugar, six almond or filbert macaroons ground to a powder, and a very small quantity of salt; mix well, and add 1 table- spoonful or so of cream. Line about eighteen Dariole-moulds with puff paste, put in each a small lump of butter, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Dust them over with pounded loaf sugar, and serve. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a basin, mix in l^oz. of flour and sufficient sugar to sweeten, and pour it, when smooth, into a saucepan, adding loz. of softened butter. Stir well over the fire until the milk boils, add two well- beaten eggs, remove the pan at once from the fire, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Butter six or eight Dariole-moulds, line them with puff-paste trimmings, three- parts fill with the preparation, place in a quick oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. When done, turn them out of the moulds, sprinkle well with caster sugar, and serve as hot as possible. (5) Put the well-beaten yolks of six eggs into a basin, mix in 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, a little grated rind of lemon, and sufficient sifted loaf sugar to sweeten; add about 3 break- fast-cupfuls of cream, and stir all well together. Line with puff paste a sufficient quantity of small Dariole-moulds to hold the mixture, set them in a sharp oven, and bake for from twenty to thirty minutes. When done, turn them out care- fully, and serve either hot or cold. DARiNE.— Fr. for a slice of certain fish, such as Darne de saurnon—slice of salmon. D’ARTOIS.—According to some authorities, this is the name of a famous French count, after whom several dishes have been named; but the probabilities are that the term originated from the province of Artois. See Cakes. Russian D’Artois.—Prepare a salpiijon of cooked oysters, cray- fish-tails and claws, mushrooms, and blanched eel-pout livers, adding a little raw pike forcemeat to thicken. Have ready 11b. of puff paste, cut it into halves, and roll out each half into a thin oblong square ; place one of these on a baking- sheet, spread over the salpifon (not too thick, and leaving about Jin. all round the edges), damp the edges with a paste-brush, place the other piece of paste on the top, fasten with the thumb, cut the four sides straight, and brush over the top with egg ; mark the surface with a knife-point, put it on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. When the top is evenly coloured, cover over with paper ; and when quite cooked, take it out of the oven, cut it into oblong squares about 2jin. by lin., and serve on a folded napkin on a dish. DARUM —A very intoxicating drink made in India from Mowha flowers. It is generally greatly diluted before being offered for sale, and has a most offensive odour, but is so exceedingly cheap that it is said some of our British soldiers will hold their noses when drinking it rather than lose the opportunity of tasting the pleasures of intoxication at little pecuniary cost. DATES (Fr. Dattes; Ger. Datteln).—Of the wonder- 1 ful palm-tree (Phoenix dactylifera) (see Fig. 638) that bears the fruit, familiar to us in its dried state, Fig. 638. Date Palm. little is known in this country, although it is grown in some gardens; but it forms one of the most important contributors to the luxuries of the inhabi-517 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads, Dates—con tinned. tants of Africa. The fruit is somewhat olive- sliaped (see Fig. 639), containing a soft pulp, sweet, excellent, and wholesome, and including a hard kernel. During the flowering season the Arabs tap the stem and draw from it from two to three pints of sap daily, which they call “ lagmi,” or palm-milk. When this is fermented it pro- duces a strong wine. A very good spirit obtained from this wine is much used in preparing Arabian liqueurs. By treating the Dates as apples in cider- making a fine alcoholic drink called “maliia” is obtained, and the liquor of macerated dried Dates yields a strong alcohol when fermented. Then, again, a paste called “adjoue” is made by the Arabs from crushed Dates, and is used to make a sweet, refreshing drink on a long march by dissolving a little in water. The fruit as imported is usually massed and caked to- gether in bags, or baskets, made of matting; but the better kind, or Tafilat as they are called, are more carefully selected, dried, and packed. Long whole bunches of Dates are now im- ported in boxes, forming a very pretty dessert dish when nicely arranged. Blyth informs us that dried Dates contain 58 per cent, of sugar, and are very nutritious, one time roasted and ground for the purpose of adul- terating ground coffee. Date Cake.—(1) Cream 1 teacupful of warm butter, and mix with it 1J breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 saltspoonful of mace, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon or vanilla. Sift together 2| breakfast- cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and prepare a dough by adding 1 teacupful of milk and the flour alternately with the butter mixture. Beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, and add that also. Cut up finely 1 teacupful of stoned Dates, flour them, and mix in thoroughly. Put all into a buttered tin, and bake for about forty minutes in a moderate oven. (2) Stone Jib. of Dates and cut them into small pieces. Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and Jib. of ground rice, and then add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 break- fast-cupful of moist sugar, the Dates, one well-beaten egg, and lj breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Butter and flour a cake- tin, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven for about one-and-a-half hours. Take it out of the tin, let it cool, and serve. Date Compote (Arabian).—Bemove the stones from two or three dozen fresh Dates, put them in a mortar, pound them to a pulp, pass this through a sieve, and add a little sugar to sweeten, and a few drops of extract of roses or lemons to flavour. Put the pulp in a glass dish, smooth the surface, and pour over it a thin sauce made with arrowroot or rice- flour, moistened with milk and flavoured with lemon or orange, and serve. Dates stuffed with. Cream.— Mix together in a saucepan Jib. of loaf sugar, J saltspoonful of cream of tartar, and J tea- cupful of water; set the saucepan over a moderate fire and cook, keeping it closely covered, till, when a little of it is tried in cold water, it forms a jelly; then remove immediately from the fire, let it stand covered for ten minutes, and beat it to a smooth stiff cream with a wooden spatula. When as stiff as very soft dough, turn it out on a paste-board Dates —continued. and work it with the fingers. Have ready some fine Dates carefully stoned, fill the cavities with the cream, arrange them in a heap in the centre of a glass dish, and serve. Dates for Dessert.—Ornament a fancy dessert-dish with a lace-edged paper, and cut out some pieces of green angelica in shapes like leaves; build some Dates up on the paper in a conical form, sticking the pieces of green angelica amongst them. This gives great relief to the golden-brown of the fruit. Date Pudding1.—(1) Chop 6oz. of beef-suet, 4oz. of stoned Dates, and grate a sufficient quantity of stale crumb of bread to fill a breakfast-cup. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with Jib. of sifted flour, and work in the above ingredients adding a small quantity of grated nutmeg; stir in a sufficient quantity of milk to bind the whole together. Butter a pudding- basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil for four hours, keeping the basin well covered with the water. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with wine sauce separately or poured round. (2) Put into a bowl J pint each of molasses and finely- chopped beef-suet, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, half that quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Dates, peeled, stoned, and chopped fine, and mix together. Dissolve 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 table-spoonful of hot water, mix it with J pint of milk, and add to the other mixture; beat two eggs very light, add them also ; and lastly, put in .3} breakfast-cupfuls of flour, mixing all well together. Butter one or two moulds, pour in the mixture, and put them to steam in a saucepan of boiling water for five hours; then turn them out, and serve with wine or cream sauce. DATE-PLUMS,—These fruits are common in China, and are there known as Kaki (Diospyros Kalti); they are about the size of small apples (see Fig. 640) of a reddish Fig. 640. Date-plums. colour, and with a very luscious, tawny, semi-transparent, juicy pulp. They are usually dried with sugar, like figs. See Persimmons. DATJBE.—Fr. for a powerful seasoning for meat, as Beef a la Daube. DAUBING.—This term is applied by cooks to a system of coarsely seasoning certain meats by inserting large pieces of salted pork through their substance. This is done by means of what are called Daubing-needles. See Larding. Cut some salted pork into strips -Jin. wide and the same thickness, pierce a hole through the meat with a steel, and then insert the lardoon with a daubing-needle, or with the finger. The salt and fat penetrate through the meat in cooking, and are considered by many to improve the flavour very greatly. Beef-suet can be used in place of the pork if preferred, but it should be previously well salted. The kernels were at518 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, sec under their special heads. DAUPHIN CAKES.—See Cakes. DAUPHINE (A LA).—A French term applied to Berlin pancakes, in honour of the Dauphine Marie Antoinette. They are practically Brioche Fritters. DAURADE.-See Dorado. DECANTERS.—F rom the foregoing remarks, it will be quite understood that these vessels obtain their name in a degree upon the principle of “contrariwise.” De- Fig. 641. Decanter Corks (Adams and Son). canters should surely signify the vessels canted to pour off the wine, not the vessels to receive it after being decanted. They may be generally described as glass bottles, more or less cut and ornamented, for holding- wines and other liquors, from which drinking glasses are filled. It is the butler’s duty to superintend the decant- ing, and in the case of some wines very considerable tact and care are necessary, of which full particulars will be found under Wines. In view of the costly ornamen- tation to which Decanters are sometimes subject, and the elabo- ration displayed upon the stopper, rendering them frequently not only fragile, but obtrusively in the way on the sideboard, where they may be arranged prepara- tory to service, a careful butler will find it advisable to lay the stoppers at the sides of the de- canters, and stop the necks with corks fitted with more or less ornamental plated ends (see Fig. 641). This precaution will be useful in many ways, and should meet the approval of a good master. One of the great difficulties to be contended with in using De- canters is to clean them after wine, especially port, has been standing in them for some time. The following directions will be found very practical and success- ful for removing all sorts of impurities, and giving a fine brilliancy to th e glass: Chop up a potato with its skin on, into small squares, and thrust these into the mouth of the Decanter. Pounded egg- shells, or small shot, are sometimes used with effect. Upon the potato, shell, or shot pour some strong soap-suds, made with the ordinary yellow soap, or Hudson’s Extract of Soap, which probably contains some pearlash. Then thoroughly shake the bottle until all the impurities, or furring, have been removed. Decanters furred by water standing in them may be easily cleaned with a little hydrochloric acid (“ spirits of salt’’). Rinse and wash out thoroughly. In order to render the work simple and perfect, a decanter-stick may be used with a flat end, upon which can be fastened sponge, cloth, or leather, as required (see Fig. 642). An improved decanter-cleaner can be made from a stoutish piece of copper wire (see Fig. 643). This Decanters—continued. possesses the advantage of reaching under the shoulders of Decanters with greater facility than would be possible with a straight stick. The outsides should be thoroughly scrubbed with a glass-brush, and after thoroughly rinsing, dry the inside with a soft linen rag made fast to the decanter-stick, and the outside with a soft towel, finishing with a silk handkerchief or chamois leather. DECANTING.—This term is obviously derived from the verb cant—to tip up, which again takes its origin from the old French cant and Italian canto—an edge, showing that by a combined process, as we understand, it is the tipping up of the vessel containing the liquor, such as wine, and pouring it over the edge so as to leave any sediment behind. As the term is applied to other liquids besides wine, instructions for decanting will be found under their specific headings. DECOCTIONS.—The literal signification of this term is, “ boiling-down,” from the Latin decoquere. It is used principally by chemists, cooks having- an equivalent in Reducing. DEER.—See Venison. DELAWARE PEACH PUDDING. — See Puddings. DELHI PUDDING.—See Puddings. DELICACIES.—See Dainties and Delicacies. DELILLE CAKE.—See Cakes. DEMI-GLAZE.—See Glaze. DEMIJOHNS.—These are described as glass bottles or vessels, with large bodies and small necks, enclosed in wickerwork. The name is probably derived from a town called Damaghan, in the Persian province of Kliorassan. DEMON CAKE.—See Cakes. DENTEX.-A marine fish (Dentex vulgaris) of the Perch tribe. The skin is grey, the body compressed and round, the head sloping from the forehead to a broad flat mouth. The eyes are prominent, and the horizontal stripe which marks so many fish is high and arched over the sides parallel to the crest of the back. It is found of good size in the Mediterranean, and is commonly caught off the shores of Italy, where it is called Dentici, or Dentali. The flesh of the Dentex when cooked is beautifully white, firm, and savoury. It may be boiled in court-bouillon, with or without wine; or it may be cooked an gratin, cut open, on a broiler, and in either case lobster or shrimp sauce with anchovy makes a suitable accompaniment. DERBY CAKES.—See Cakes. DERWENTWATER CAKES.—(See Cakes. DESSERT.—This term is applied to the last course of a dinner by British, French, and German alike. In Italy it is known as Giardinetto (little garden), or La Frutta (a fruit course). Spaniards know it it as Postres (the final course), either the Italian or the Spanish being- far more suggestive than our own term, which is derived from the French desservir—to clear the table. Dessert, as we understand it now, signifies anything but a clear- ance of the table, excepting so far as savouries are con- cerned, being more correctly a service of fruits, biscuits, Fig. 642. Decanter-stick.519 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Dessert—continued. cakes, preserves, and otlier sweetmeats, accompanying the service of wines. Modern customs have decided that the Dessert, with flowers, shall occupy the centre of the dining- or banquet-table, forming a kind of ornamentation that cannot be excelled. So soon as the dinner is at an end, and all the vessels pertaining thereto have been removed, a few small glass dishes containing crystallised fruits and other tasty morsels are supplemented to the fine dishes already in position, and to each guest is supplied a dessert-plate, fruit knife, fork, and spoon, wineglasses to suit the wines, and finger bowls. As regards the various fruits, ices, cakes and other dishes suitable for desserts, sufficient instructions concerning their preparation and mode of service may be found under their various headings. DEVILS.— This fanciful term is given to certain broiled meats or bones, freely peppered with cayenne. Numerous receipts for making them will be found under various headings, such as Beef, Bones, Crab, Bowl, Kidneys, Mackerel, Oysters, Salmon, Sardines, Turkeys, &c. The following mixture is considered very good for pre- paring Devils for the grill. Put 1 teaspoonful of mustard on a plate with 4 teaspoonful of anchovy paste and % table-spoonful of salad-oil, and mix them thoroughly together with the blade of a knife. Coat the meats over with the mixture. DEVIL SAUCE (Sauce it la Diable).—Sec Sauces. DEVONSHIRE BUNS.—See Buns. DEVONSHIRE CAKES.—See Cakes. DEVONSHIRE CREAM.—See Cream. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET.—The term “junket” is derived from the Italian giuncata—a cream cheese, and that word was doubtless derived from giuncato, signifying covered with rushes, that being the usual manner of pre- paring cream- or rush-cheese, as it is called, and giunco is the Italian for a rush. The French apply their jonc— a rush, and joncher—to strew with rushes, to cream cheeses in the same way as jonchee de creme. Devonshire Junket is much esteemed in Devonshire, and may lie prepared as follows : (1) Mix about i table-spoonful of rennet with lqt. of milk that has been freshly drawn from the cow. Place the curd on a fine hair sieve, and drain off the whey. Put 1 pint of cream in a saucepan, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and place the pan over the fire until the cream is on the point of boiling; then turn it into a jug, and let it get cold. Sift caster sugar over the bottom of a glass dish, pour over 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of port wine, turn the curds on to it, then pour over the cream, and serve. (2) Turn lqt. of new milk with a piece of rennet, and pour it into a glass dish. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream in a basin and mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine and 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy ; sweeten to tasto with caster sugar, and flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the milk is firm, pour the above mixture over it, put some ratafias round the dish, and serve. (3) If possible, procure 1 pint of milk fresh from the cow ; but if this is not convenient, the milk must be poured into a saucepan and placed over the fire until of blood heat. Put tablespoonful of rennet into a glass dish with 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; then pour in the warmed milk and mix all well together. Spread a thick layer of Devonshire cream over the top, dust it over with caster sugar and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and leave it for three or four hours in a cool place before serving. DEVONSHIRE PUDDING—See Puddings. DEVONSHIRE SAUCE.—See Sauces. DEVONSHIRE WHITE-POT—The county of Devon is celebrated not only for its cream, but also for numerous tasty dishes of which cream or rich milk forms the basis or chief ingredient. That known as White-pot is deservedly famous. It is prepared as follows: (1) Mix 3 pints of milk with J pint of water, and stir in five well-beaten eggs. Slice and butter thickly a French roll, lay the pieces in a dish or bowl, and sprinkle with caster sugar and nutmeg. Pour the milk-and-egg mixture over, and bake in a quick oven for about two hours. Serve hot. (2) Steep 1 teacupful of Smyrna raisins in boiling water until well filled out. Beat up four eggs with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix with 1 pint of cream, and season with grated nutmeg and a very small quantity of salt. Cut a small French roll into very thin slices, lay them in a pie-dish, and pour the eggs and cream over them; strew the raisins on the top, put a few small pieces of butter over all, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. DEWBERRIES.—This is the name given to the fruit of a species of bramble (Rubus csesius). There are two or three kinds known in America, but none of them are much better than a sort of blackberry, possessing exceed- ingly little flavour. They are used chiefly for the purpose of making a semi-medicinal cordial, supposed to be valu- able in cases of intestinal laxation. Dewberry Cordial.—(1) Mash some Dewberries, strain the juice, measure it, put it into a pan with lib. of loaf sugar to each quart of juice, and boil for fifteen minutes; then strain, and leave till cool. Mix in for each quart 2 wineglass- fuls of brandy and 1 table-spoonful of powdered mace, cloves, and allspice. Bottle the cordial, and keep it tightly corked till wanted for use. (2) Pick sufficient Dewberries to make 2qts. of juice, and mash them in a mortar ; then pass the juice through a fine silk sieve, pour it into a saucepan, add four grated nutmegs, 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful each of powdered cloves and powdered allspice, put the lid on tightly to prevent evaporation, and simmer for half-an-hour. Strain the mixture through a silk sieve, and leave till cold ; then mix 1 pint of brandy with it. The cordial should be kept in tightly-corked bottles. DIABETIC BREAD.—See Bread. DIABLE, SAUCE A LA.—See Sauces. DIABLOTINS.—The literal meaning of this term is “ little imps,” which French cooks have applied to small balls or sweetmeats of various kinds. The following is an excellent receipt, given by a famous French confectioner: Blanch and pound 4ifOZ. of sweet almonds, adding while pounding 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Put 4oz. of ground rice into a stewpan, stir in gradually the almond milk, add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, loz. of butter, a small quantity of grated orange- peel, and a dust of salt, and stir over the fire till firm and thick ; then take it off, mix lj wineglassfuls of kirschenwasser or cognac with it, and turn it into a basin. While still hot, take the mixture up in pieces the size of walnuts, roll them round, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry till very darkly browned; then drain them, sprinkle with a few drops of orange-flower water, and roll in crushed sugar. Arrange the balls on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 644. See also Diavolini.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 520 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. DIAMOND-BACK.— The common name of the I American Salt-Marsh Terrapin. DIASTASE .—A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable I of converting 2000 times its bulk of starch into grape i sugar. The action of the saliva on starch is clue to the Diastase secreted by the salivary glands. The term is derived from a Greek word signifying to separate, or set apart. DIAVOLINI.—The literal meaning of this Italian word is “ little imps,” in which respect it resembles the French diablotins. Diavolini are delicious sweetmeats, and may be prepared with chocolate and almonds, or pistachios. In the latter case they are made somewhat larger, and rolled in white or rose-pink coloured non- pareils (“hundreds-and-tliousands”). The following re- ceipts are modifications of those given by Francatelli and others, and can be readily manufactured by an amateur. (1) Take Jib. of good chocolate, put it into a sugar-boiler in the oven to soften, then add a few drops of essence of vanilla, and loz. of caster sugar. Place the boiler on the fire, and work the contents until they are thoroughly blended; then take the boiler off, and with the mixture make as many Fig. 645. Diavolini. Diavolini as the amount will permit, by taking up a little about the size of a filbert and rolling it in the palm of the left hand with the right-hand index finger until it assumes the shape of an olive. Push a pistachio-kernel in the centre of each, and roll them in rose-pink nonpareils, or hundreds- and-thousands, as they are sometimes called (see Fig. 645). (2) Put lib. of sugar in a sugar-boiler, boil it to the crack degree, then add 14oz. of ground pistachios, and stir over the fire until the paste no longer sticks to the side of the pan; stir in also Joz. of powdered gum dragon, and a little spinach greening to colour the paste, and thoroughly mix them. Take the mixture out, roll it into small shapes about the size of small nut kernels, dry them, and cover with melted chocolate, next rolling them in rose-pink nonpareils. (3) Put loz. of gum dragon into a small jar with 1 teacupful of warm water, to soak, covering over the jar. When all the water is absorbed by the gum, squeeze it through a cloth on to a plate, and work it with a flat hand, adding finely-powdered caster sugar until the paste is thick enough to be rolled ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls each of cinnamon and essence of Jamaica ginger, and mix in more sugar, using ljlb. in all. Should the paste be too thin, add a little more sugar. Put it into a pot and keep it covered over until wanted. Take out a small piece about the size of a walnut, roll it out with the hands on a slab well sprinkled with finely-powdered caster sugar, and make it into the form of a rope about -g-in. in thickness; cut this with a knife into very small lengths, and use the forefinger of the right hand to rub them in the palm of the left into the form of grains of rye or barley. Use plenty of sifted sugar to prevent them from sticking as they are rolled out, and put them on to a sieve covered at the bottom to Jin. in depth with fine icing sugar. When a good many have been made, move the sieve quickly to and fro until all the superfluous sugar has passed through, put them a little apart from one another on a sheet of paper on a baking- sheet, and dry them before the fire or in the hot closet. When they are quite dry, let them get cold, and put into air-tight bottles until wanted. DIET.—Although this word is stated by Webster to be derived from the Greek diaita—manner of living, it is so commonly used to signify the daily routine of food for invalids that the inclination is naturally towards associating the word with the Latin dies—a day. As Diet —continued. persons in ordinary health do not usually subject them- selves to any defined course of feeding, there is no necessity for the word to receive here a more extended signification than that of a system of food selected for the benefit of a particular state of health. DIETETIC BREAD.—See Bread. DIGESTERS.—Towards the latter part of the seven- teenth century, a certain French physician named Denis Papin visited some of the Alpine monasteries, and was much struck by the information given him that in the Fig. 646. Papin’s Digester. ordinary vessels it was impossible to boil meat so high up in the mountains. The reason of this was cpiite clear, the pressure of the atmosphere being so much less than on the surface of the plains and valleys below. The Fig. 647. Section of Papin’s Digester. atmospheric pressure being so much less, the water was converted into steam many degrees below that at the sea-level (212deg. Fahr.; lOOdeg. Cent.). To boil or stew meat, a temperature close upon that of the boiling-water standard is required. This set Dr. Papin thinking, and he conceived the idea that if a vessel could be closed, and the steam, together with the enclosed air as it expandedTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 521 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special head Digesters—continued. by heating, made to contribute an artificial pressure, it would then be possible to stew or boil at any height upon the mountains. Fig. 646 shows the perfection of the original conception, for which the monks must have good reason to hold him in sincere esteem. The section (Fig. 647) shows the principle of the contrivance. It is a common iron stockpot, with a slightly - domed iron lid fitting at the rim of the pot and fastening by means Fig. 648. Digester Saucepan. of clips, or grooves and studs. In the centre of the lid is a valve arrangement, fitted with a heavy plug, with its handle or stem riding up and down in a slot. When the pressure of steam inside is sufficiently forcible to lift the plug, the water would be at many degrees above the standard for boiling. The plug not only acts as a safety-valve, but can be made to regulate the heat to which the water can be raised without danger of exploding the vessel. The principle has been extended in later years to various forms of cooking, and has led to the manufacture of a Digester Saucepan (see Fig. 648) and Digester Stewpan (see Fig. 649), both of these being insufficiently appre- ciated. In Papin’s Digester a very great economy is effected when boiling down bones for soup or stock, for by the greater heat the water acquires, the gelatine of the bones is more completely extracted. DIGESTION.—“We do not live on what we eat, but on what we digest,” are the words of a certain sage, whose name appears to have been left in the obscurity of ages. It is nevertheless an axiom that all alike live upon what they digest, and none can live without digesting the food that is to nourish his own body. This applies equally to the king and to the beggar, each having the want of food announced to him by a sensation of hunger and appetite. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both ! ’ are the words of Shakespeare, which convey to the gourmet a meaning that possibly the poor man would not understand; but this function of Digestion is one of exceeding importance, affecting the temper and disposition to such an extent as to influence the movements of the world. Cooks should bear this in mind and let it add a few more degrees to their dignity. The process of Digestion may be briefly described as Digestion—continued. follows: the food enters the mouth, where it is cut up by the front teeth or incisors, and afterwards ground down to pulp or paste by the back teeth or grinders. During this process of mastication, air and saliva are mixed with the food, the saliva turning starchy matters into sugar, and serving to lubricate the mass. The food then passes down the gullet into the stomach, where it is rolled or churned about, whilst an acrid secretion, the gastric juice, is poured out upon it. This juice acts upon albuminous bodies (a typical example of albumen is the white of egg), con- verting them into peptones, and these are either taken up by the minute capillaries which ramify on the interior of the stomach, or they may pass into the next portion of the digestive canal, the small intestine. The result of Digestion in the stomach is that the food becomes converted into an acid substance known as chyme. In the intestine the chyme meets with three fluids —bile, and the pancreatic and intestinal juices. The bile is secreted by the largest gland in the human body—the liver; the pancreatic and intestinal juices by the pancreas and small intestine respectively. The bile acts in aiding the absorption of fatty matters. The pancreatic, like the gastric juice, converts albuminates into peptones. In addition to this, it decomposes fats by the formation of soapy compounds, and also converts starch which lias j escaped the action of the saliva into sugar. The intestinal juice possesses most of the xiroperties of the other two secretions of the small intestine, all the secretions of which are alkaline, and thus by the time the food has reached the lower end of the intestine the chyme has become changed into an alkaline fluid, which now passes from the small to the great intestine, where it is moved very slowly, and gradually gives up all its remaining nutrient matter. When it reaches the lower end of the canal, or rectum, it has parted with all its nourishment, and is expelled as worthless. From the foregoing remarks it will lie understood that some foods are more digestible than others. It may lie of some interest to the cook to study the following tables of the comparative digestibility of some foods. The table is as given by Prof. Blytli in his “ Dictionary of Hygiene and Public Health,” as compiled by Dr. Beaumont. Animal Substances. Time of Articles of Diet. How Cooked. Chymitication. H. M. Pigs’ Feet, soused Boiled i 0 Tripe, soused Boiled i 0 Eggs, whipped "Raw i 30 Salmon Trout Boiled i 30 Venison-steak Broiled i 30 Brains Boiled i 45 Ox-Liver Broiled 2 0 Codfish, cured Boiled 2 0 Eggs Boasted 2 15 Turkey Boiled 2 25 Gelatine Boiled 2 30 Goose Boasted 2 30 Sucking-pig Boasted 2 30 Lamb Broiled 2 30 Chicken Fricasseed ... 2 45 Beef Boiled 2 45 Beef .. Boasted 3 0 Mutton Boiled 3 0 Mutton ... Roasted ... 3 15 Oysters Stewed 3 30 Cheese Raw 3 30 Eggs, hard Boiled 3 30 Eggs Fried 3 30 Beef Fried 4 0 Fowls Boiled 4 0 Fowls Boasted ... 4 0 Ducks Boasted 4 0 Cartilage Boiled 4 15 Pork Boasted 4 15 Tendon Boiled ... 5 30522 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Digestion—continued. Vegetable Substances. Articles of Diet. Rice Time of C'liymitication II. M. 1 0 Apples, sweet 1 30 Sago 1 45 Tapioca 2 0 Barley 2 0 Apples, sour 2 0 Cabbage, with vinegar ... 2 0 Beans 2 30 Sponge Cake 2 30 Parsnips 2 30 Potatoes, old 2 30 Apple Dumpling ... 3 0 Indian Cornflour Cake ... ... 3 0 Indian Cornflour Bread ... 3 15 Carrots 3 15 Wheaten Bread ... 3 30 Potatoes, new 3 30 Turnips 3 30. Beets 3 45 Cabbage 4 0 The foregoing tables will enable a shrewd person to gauge the digestibility of other foods ; bearing in mind, also, that the digestive faculties are subject to other con- trolling influences, such as freedom from mental irrita- tion, fulness of spirits, climate, and season. The results recorded by Dr. Beaumont were obtained by him through the medium of a patient with the front wall of the abdomen absent. The actual process was under visual examination, but it is quite possible that the unnatural condition may have interfered in some measure with the action of the stomach; but these experiments were confirmed by heating the same foods in gastric juice to a few degrees above the normal animal heat. DIGESTIVE BISCUITS,—See Biscuits. Dinners—continued. raising him in honour amongst men. It behoves the guest to repay the host in a measure by a show of happi- ness and jollity, keeping up a lively conversation, as witty as may be, or if not witty, at any rate let it be gay and light-hearted. Dinner must be considered the prime meal of the day, therefore it should be a matter of the highest consideration so far as the hostess is concerned. That it is considered of very great importance is shown by those who are kept waiting, by their weary looks of ill-restrained impatience. Glrimod de la Reyniere observed that the value guests attach to a coming repast is clearly testified when they take their seats, not by their chatting, but by their silence of anticipation. Dinner should commence with soup, served boiling hot—it soon cools after service. To follow this, a fine cut of beef with vegetables is never out of place. Stimu- lating hors d’ceuvres disappear about this time, and entrees or side-dishes, when served, follow the soup, giving time to carve the joints, or relieves, which have taken the place of the soups. The article on Carving should be of great service to the host, for joints, poultry, or game badly carved are irretrievably spoiled. Then follow sweets, cheese, and dessert. For information concerning the service of large Dinners, reference must be made to Banquets, and to Wines for those suitable to various courses. At minor Dinners it is usual to set on the table a bottle or so of light wine, and have upon the sideboard jugs of draught beer or bottles of ale. DIP. —Sauce or gravy served at table with a spoon. The term is commonly used in the United States and Yorkshire. DIPLOMATIC PUDDING.—Sec Puddings. DIPLOMATIC SAUCE.—See Sauces. DIGESTIVE CAKES.—See Cakes. DIKA.—This is the name given to cakes of fat, not I unlike cacao-fat, obtained from the seeds of an African tree (Irvingia Barteri). The natives use this chiefly in their culinary operations, for which purpose it answers admir- ably, as it does not turn rancid. Under the name of “ Udika Bread” it is sometimes scraped or grated and put into rich stews. DILL.—Dill-water is familiar in the nursery as an infantine carminative; but it is not generally known that Dill (Anethum graveolens) was at one time cultivated in kitchen-gardens as an herb for soups and sauces. It is said that William the Conqueror gave Tezelin, his cook, j the Lordship of the Manor of Addington as a reward for his making “ a white soup with Dill-leaves, to which he gave the name of Dillegrout.” Dill has no culinary reputation now-a-days. DIMPLE CAKES.—See Cakes. DINDON.—Fr. for a turkey. DINNERS.—The term Dinner is said to be a corrup- tion of the French dejeuner, or breakfast, the Dinner at one time taking place at the modern breakfast-time, ten o’clock. To a rich man there are few pleasures so great as playing the role of host. But it is not money only that is necessary to furnish a good table. It requires careful ) thought, and some knowledge and study of the culinary art. A celebrated gourmet once declared that it was easier to make a large fortune than to know how to | spend a small portion of it in entertaining friends at Dinner. However great may be the ability of the host | to make himself pleasing to his guests, he is compelled to trust to his servants for his cuisine and cellar. A good Dinner is one of the greatest joys upon earth, j attracting the hearts of all to him who gives it, and I DIPPER.—A sort of ladle used for baling out the liquor from the stockpot, and for other purposes of a similar character where a considerable quantity is required Fig. 650. Dipi>er. at one action (see Fig. 650). They are made of various sizes, the average or medium size holding about 1 pint. DISHES (Fr. Plats; Ger. Shusseln; Ital. Piatti; Sp. Platos).—The English word “disk” is derived from the Latin discus—a dish, from which the application is obvious, although extended through an almost indefinite variety of utensils serviceable for holding foods. ModernTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 523 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Dishes—continued. ingenuity lias so greatly improved upon the original dish, that, excepting in name and use, there is scarcely any analogy. For instance, the hot-water Dish (see Fig. 651. Hot-water Carving-Dish (Adams and Son). Fig. 651), used for serving a large joint or bird, and keeping it hot during carving, is of comparatively modern invention. Its value is indisputable, and where it has been used the dinner has gained much repute through its influence. The Dish proper is sometimes of china or earthenware, and sometimes of metal—the china being preferred for its appearance, although the metal Dish is a better conductor of heat. This upper Dish is set in a large deeper one, which holds as much hot water as can conveniently be poured in through a tube fitted with a screw cap. The upper Dish is also fitted with a gravy- well. which is very convenient, and receives through specially-made channels the gravy that runs from all well-cooked joints after cutting. All cooks are agreed that a dinner to be successful must be served hot—this applying as much to one class of food as another. But although use, which is second nature, may accustom the less fortunate diners to eating semi-hot dinners with some sort of relish, this cannot be said of those gourmets who can appreciate entrees, Fig. 653. Dish for Handing Vegetables (Adarus and Son), those gems of artistic cookery. These must be hot, there- fore a Dish, based upon the same principle as the liot- water Dish previously described, has been prepared for Dishes—continued. them (see Fig. 652). Vegetables also, especially as served at large dinners, require some method of keeping them warm during a long service. This can be excellently brought about by hot-water Dishes, or small metal Dishes containing only a small quantity of vegetables at a time, kept very hot in a hot closet, and served only as required, being replenished from the hot stock at will. For this purpose an electro-plated Dish, well covered, with a nearly horizontal handle of ivory, or hard wood, is of great utility (see Fig. 653). When breakfast, luncheon, or supper savouries are served, the best Dishes are of metal, with tightly-fitting Fig. 654. Dish for Breakfast Savouries (Adams and Son). covers. The usual shape is oval (see Fig. 654) or eliptical, but round ones are also much used, and very effective. Numerous other kinds of Dishes will occur to the reader, most of them being so familiar as to require no special comment. DISH-COVERS.—No well-regulated cook would think of sending a hot dish to table without a cover. The style Fig. 655. Dish-cover (Adams and Son). more generally used is shown in Fig. 655 ; but there are “ improvements ” advocated even in Dish-covers, and of these none are more practical than those dishes fitted with revolving covers (see Fig. 656). In this case the cover disappears under the dish, which has in some respects a great advantage over those from which the cover has to be lifted; the difficulty being to know what to do with the cover, from which the steam condensed into water drips freely. These revolving covers are very strongly524 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Dish-covers—continued. recommended for vegetables, soups, and other smaller dishes. A very useful kind of Dish-cover for summer Fig. 657. Wire-gauze Cover. use is one made of line wire gauze (see Fig. 657). This will keep flies off meat and other foods. DISHING-UF (Fr. Dressage).—There is no other language in the world possessing a word which so exactly expresses the action of Dishing-up as the French. Dressage implies more than the mere setting of a joint upon a dish—it signifies that the art of the cook is called into action in arranging, decorating, and garnishing, to render meats convenient for serving, and pleasing to the sight. If well cooked they are sure to be of an appetising odour and taste; and then the work, so far as the kitchen is concerned, is complete. But this cannot be accomplished for a meal of even moderate pretensions without some considerable display of talent, judgment, and discretion, which a cook may acquire in a measure by practice and experience, provided these advantages are accompanied by intelligence. The first great care is that all those foods that are cooking shall be ready for Dishing-up at the same time ; that joints shall not be kept back for vegetables, or entrees kept waiting for sauces. The plan of the service must be so perfectly schemed that when the time comes there shall be no hurrying and scurrying to get ready one single little item that might have been attended to before. For a large dinner there are so many varieties to dress, that unless the cook has everything ready at hand for the purpose, the confusion in the kitchen will be great, and the delays between courses or removes will be awkward for the host, whose table should be kept with a con- tinuous supply of viands, not a perceptible break or interval occurring to mar the occasion. It is not necessary to continue the subject under this heading, as it is one that, technically treated, must be almost illimitable, various instructions depending upon the size of the meal, the constituents, the assistance available, and the apparatus at hand. All these things the good cook will duly consider. See cdso Garnishes. DISINFECTANTS.—In a properly-conducted and thoroughly-cleansed kitchen there should be no necessity to use Disinfectants. Cleanliness is the best Disinfectant of all; although the free use of Disinfectants is not only admissible, but required for the purification of sinks and drains down which greasy washings have been poured, or water in which vegtables or other matter subject to putrefaction have been boiled. Under these circumstances, a free use of chlorinated lime or carbolic powder is advisable. DISTILLATION.—This is described as the process by which evaporation by heat and subsequent condensation of the vapour is effected. The art belongs to the spirit maker, and does not apply to cookery. DOLMAS.—See Cabbages. DOME-MOULDS.—These are much used by cooks for a variety of purposes. They are made either with Fig. 658. Dome-mould. (see Fig. 658) or without a shoulder. Those which are quite plainly domed may be used for puddings (see Fig. 659). They are usually made of copper, but those of stout tin answer very well, and are not so expensive. Patterns resembling quarter- ings, either straight or waved, and other devices, are not un- common. DOMINO CAKES. — See Cakes. DOOFIAJAS.—The literal translation of this Hindustanee term is “ two, or double, onions,” hence it is used to signify forms of curry in which either two kinds, or two Fig 659 Dome.mould (Mode modes of preparing onions, of Tying Cloth over appear in the same dish. More Mould). fat and less water than in the ordinary curry is used, and altogether a very highly- seasoned rich dish results. For four chickens, a leg of mutton, a hind or fore-quarter of kid, or about 81b. of beef, the following ingredients and proportions will be found sufficient: 3oz. of fat, § pint of water, G teaspoonfuls of salt, 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, J teaspoon- ful of ground ginger, I teaspoonful of ground garlic, twelve large onions cut into six or eight slices, and i teaspoonful of ground coriander-seeds if not objected to. Proceed in this way : melt the fat, brown the onions in it, and take them out; add the ground ingredients, and brown them; add the meat and salt, and brown the former; chop up the fried onions, add them with the water, and simmer gently until the meat is tender, and the liquid reduced to a thick consistency. DORADO (Fr. Daurade).—This is a large sea-fish of I the genus Coryphsena. It is described as having a high, long body, edged on the back, and rounding towards the belly. The profile is oval; the skin, reddish over the back and silvery underneath. Eyes very large and staring. The flesh is considered very delicious; it is white, delicate, and has a peculiar aroma. Dorados are mostly caught in spring, as they approach the shore to spawn, and the average weight would be from 81b. to 101b. each, being a very useful size to form a handsome dish. Boiled in court-bouillon with wine is the favourite mode of cooking, and the Dorado should then be served with Genoa sauce; but braised, or boiled in salted water, they are very nice. Small-sized fish may be broiled, and served with maitre-d’hotel butter, or parsley sauce.For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dbc., referred to, see under their special heads. DORSE, DORSCH. — Common names for Gadus callarias, a variety of cod, found in tlie Baltic, and believed by some authorities to be the young of the cod; whereas others are disposed to class them amongst haddocks. Dorse are cooked like Haddocks. DOTTERELS.—European birds (Charadrius mori- nellus) of the plover family. They are so tame that they may be sometimes caught with the hand. They are in season during October, November, and December, and are cooked like ordinary Ploveks. DOUBLE BOILER.—Sec Boilers. DOUCETTE.—Fr. for a plant called Corn-Salad. DOUGH.—This word is derived from the Old English dagli, anything kneaded, which the modern baker main- tains with unerring fidelity. There are several formulas for making Dough, which will be found under Biscuits, Bread, and other headings. Dough Cakes.—(1) Dissolve loz. of dry yeast in 1 breakfast- cupful of warm milk; put lib. of flour into a basin, make a bay in the centre, pour in the milk, and work in with it a part of the flour, leaving a wall round it of the remaining flour. Cut about 6oz. of butter into slices, lay these on the top of the dry flour, cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place for the contents to rise. Dust 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and a small quantity of salt over the flour, and work the whole well together. Place the Dough Fig. 661. Large Dough Cake. again in a warm place, and when it has risen a second time make it into small cakes (see Pig. 660), or one large one (see Pig. 661), and bake in greased tins. (2) Take lib. of common bread Dough, and work into it Jib. of sugar, Jib. of well-cleaned and dried currants, 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, loz. of chopped candied peel, and one egg. Mix well, and put into a greased tin. Bake in a good oven. DOUGH-BIRDS.—These are also known as Eskimo Curlews (Numenius borealis), and although not often met with in this country, are plentiful in the United States. They have long slender bills, about 2in. in length, and the whole bird averages about 14in. long. In autumn these birds feed freely on crowberries, their plumage being frequently much stained with the juice. They are also very partial to certain snails which frequent the rocks along the coast accessible at low tide, that being a con- venient time for fowling them. Prepared as described hereunder, they are exceedingly delicious, being generally plump, fleshy, and fat. Broiled Dough-Birds.—Prepare the birds, and split them lengthwise down the backs, but without quite separating, lay them on a plate, season with salt and pepper, and rub a moderate quantity of salad-oil over them ; next put them side by side on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Cut as many pieces of bread, ljin. thick, as there are birds, remove the crusts, and trim them to a nice shape; scoop enough out of the centre of each slice to make a hollow large enough to hold a bird, fry them in butter till lightly browned, then drain. Put a bird on each toast, place them on a hot dish that has been covered with a fancy-edged dish-paper or folded napkin, garnish with fresh watercress, and serve. Boasted Dough-Birds.—(1) Choose half-a-dozen plump Dough- Birds, singe, draw, and truss them ; dredge them over with salt, lay them on a roasting-pan, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and pour about 1 teacupful of water in the tin. Boast them in a brisk oven for twelve minutes. Cut six slices, about ljin. thick, off a stale loaf, pare off the crusts, and trim them to a nice shape ; then cut out of the centre of each slice sufficient bread to leave a hollow large enough to hold a bird, and fry them a golden brown in butter; drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper. When cooked, put a bird in each of the canapes, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a border of fresh, well-washed watercress, and serve. (2) African Style.—Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, then truss them; season with salt, lay them on a baking- dish, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and a small quantity of water in the tin. Bake the birds for twelve minutes in a quick oven. Procure as many eg'g'-plant fruit as there are birds, divide each of them into six parts, without separating, and make four incisions in each part; put them in a stewpan with some boiling lard, and fry for a minute. Take them out of the lard, and scoop out the fleshy part of the fruit with a vegetable-scoop, fill them with game forcemeat, or any other kind preferred, put them on a baking-dish, strew grated breadcrumbs over the top, put two or three small lumps of butter about, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. When nicely browned, take the stuffed fruit out of the oven, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, put a bird on each, garnish with watercress or fried parsley, and serve. (3) American Style.—Prepare and truss the birds, put them on a roasting-dish, pour a small quantity of water round them, dredge moderately with salt, and put a small lump of butter on each. Bake them for about twelve minutes in a brisk oven. Cut some cold boiled hominy into as many slices as there are birds, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in stale breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating- on both sides ; put the slices of hominy in boiling lard and fry until nicely browned. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish- paper over a hot dish, lay the slices of hominy on it, place a bird on each, put a thin slice of broiled bacon on the breast of each bird, garnish with watercress or fried parsley, and serve. Salmis of Doug-li-Birds (a la Gastronome).—Singe and draw the birds and wipe them over with a damp cloth ; remove the legs, and stuff the birds with game forcemeat, inserting it by means of a paper cornet; put a small quantity of the forcemeat in the hollows left by the eyes, then place over the forcemeat two small pieces of truffle, and pass the bills of the birds through the skin of the breasts. Boast the birds for twelve minutes in a brisk oven. Put J teacupful of fumet of any game in a stewpan, with 1 breakfast-cupful of Madeira sauce, three chopped livers of any kind of game, and boil them gently for ten minutes ; afterwards strain the sauce, return it to the stewpan, and mix with it the grated peel of a large lemon and a few whole mushrooms. Cut as many square pieces of bread as there are birds, and fry them a delicate golden brown in butter; drain for a minute on a sheet of paper, put a bird on each piece of bread, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with small potato croquettes, and serve. TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 525 Dough-Birds—continued.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 526 DOUGH - NUTS. — Very old-fashioned country favourites are Dough-nuts. They are made from various doughs, more or less resembling each other, and bread dough in particular. The following receipts have been obtained from very reliable sources, and the instruc- tions given are that Dough-nuts shall be fried in fat: (1) Beat three eggs in a large bowl for about five minutes, and then stir into them 1 brealcfast-cupful of powdered sugar (not more, lest the nuts discolour in cooking), 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 pint of sweet milk, and one-third of a grated nutmeg. Sift together (two or three times) 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 1 teaspoonful each of cream of tartar and carbonate of ammonia, and stir the flour quickly into the ingredients already mixed in the bowl. Just sufficient flour to make a dough only stiff enough to handle is required. If more than 2 breakfast-cupfuls are needed, stir it into the dough, but remember to make it only stiff enough to roll out. Handle the dough very quickly and lightly, and as little as possible. As soon as it is mixed, turn it from the bowl on to a floured paste-board, dust a little flour over, roll it out Jin. thick, j cut into rounds with a biscuit-cutter, or a thin cup or [ glass dipped in flour, and cut a small round from the Fig. 662. Dough-nut. centre of each (see Fig. 662) with another smaller cutter dipped in flour. Set them in a warm place to rise again, but not too much, or they will be spongy, and absorb the fat. Have ready a frying-kettle half full of smoking-hot fat, put into it as many Dough-nuts as will float without pressing against each other, and fry a light brown; then take them out of the fat with a skimmer, and lay on a sieve or paper to drain. When all are fried, roll them in powdered sugar, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Put 12oz. of sugar and 6oz. of butter into a basin and beat them to a cream; then add two well-beaten eggs, \ pint of milk, and J pint of yeast, and mix in sufficient flour to form a light dough; set this in a warm place to rise. Roll it out to about lin. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a small tin cutter, place a raisin in the centre Fig 663. Dough-nut. of each one (see Fig. 663), press it in, and fry to a light brown as for No. 1. Dust with caster sugar. (3) Put 21b. of light bread-dough in a basin before the fire to rise. Warm Jib. of sugar, one egg, and 4 table- spoonfuls of melted lard; when warm, and the dough light, work them well together, and let the mixture stand for another thirty minutes; then beat it smooth, and add 1 handful of flour. Let it stand in a warm place to rise for four hours ; knead it well, fold it over several times, roll it out into thin sheets, and brush these over with a little melted lard. Cut into rings (see Fig. 662), and put these on a baking-sheet to rise for thirty minutes; then fry them as for No. 1, dusting with sugar after. (4) Rub lib. of flour and Jib. of butter togethor in a basin, add 4oz. of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Dough-nuts—continued. mix thoroughly with warm milk or water until the paste becomes of the consistency of dough ; then put it near the fire to rise. Roll it out, and cut it up into any fancy shapes. Fry as for No. 1. (5) Rub loz. of butter into 4oz. of flour, and put it into a basin with loz. of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of baking-powder, one egg, a little juice or essence of lemon, and 1 teacupful of warm milk: mix well, and then let it remain for two hours to set. Take it up with a spoon, drop it into hot fat in a frying-pan, and cook to a light brown, that is, until they are done. (6) Put into a basin Jib. of flour, make a bay in the centre, and pour in 1 wineglassful of yeast; mix the flour into it by degrees, wetting it at the same time with a little milk. Cover the basin with a cloth, and let it stand by the fire for two hours, that the dough may rise. In the meantime take another fib. of flour, and rub into it 5oz. of butter; mix in then a little grated nutmeg and Jib. of powdered white sugar ; mix all together with three beaten eggs, J pint of milk, and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. As soon as the dough is light, knead all these ingredients into it, cover up again, and let it stand near the fire to rise for another hour. Then put it on to a well-floured pasteboard; if it seems too soft, add a little flour to it, but be careful not Fig. 664. Dough-nut. to add too much; roll it into balls (see Fig-. 664) about the size of small apples, fry them brown in boiling lard, and sprinkle with sugar before serving. (7) Put lib. of flour into a stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of salt, mix in sufficient water to make a smooth batter, and stir this over a slow fire until thick; then take it off and leave .until cold. Beat sufficient eggs with the cold paste to make a smooth liquid batter. Put 4oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, put in small quantities of the batter with a table-spoon, and fry a pale golden brown. Drain them, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about ten minutes. When cooked, drain them, arrange in a g'roup on a hot dish, pour whipped cream over, and serve. (8) Put Jib. of plain white biscuits in a mortar, pound them until quite smooth, and sift through a fine wire sieve. Put the whites of twenty eggs in a basin, and beat well, adding gradually the sifted biscuit. Put about 6oz. of butter in a frying-pan and make it hot. When the mixture is quite smooth, take it up in small quantities with a spoon drop them in the hot butter, and fry till of a pale golden colour. Drain and put them in a stewpan with boiling water to cover them, and boil for ten minutes, then take them off the fire. Put lib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and a few drops each of essence of rose-water and prepared cochineal, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then pour it over the Dough-nuts, put these over a slow fire, and leave till nearly all the syrup has soaked in. When ready, arrang'e them tastefully on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. (9) Beat two eggs into Jib. of hread-dougli, add 2 table- spoonfuls of sug-ar and 2oz. of butter, also a small quantity of salt, and work the whole until well mixed, dredging it occasionally with a little flour. Divide the dough into small equal-sized portions, mould them into round cakes (see Fig. 664) with floured hands, set them on a board, and leave in a warm temperature for three hours. When Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads.527 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die,, referred to, see under their special heads. Dough-nuts—continued. ready, drop a lump of lard in a frying-pan, and when smoking- hot put in some of the cakes and fry them, turning when done on one side. As each lot of cakes is cooked, drain them on paper. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, pile the nuts on it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (10) Put about 1 pint of light bread-dough on a floured paste-board, and roll it out Jin. thick ; cut this into rather Fig. 665. Dough-nut. long diamond-shaped pieces (see Fig. 665) with a sharp knife dipped in flour, throw a towel over the pieces, and let them stand near the stove to rise, while a deep frying-pan, half-full of fat, is being heated. When the fat smokes, fry the cakes, and serve them with syrup or molasses. Excellent cakes for breakfast. Dough-nuts with Fruit.—Put 21b. of light bread-dough into a basin, and mix in about 4oz. each of sugar and molasses, one egg, and 4 table-spoonfuls of hot lard; work these well in, and let the mixture stand for half-an-hour or so ; then add sufficient flour to make a soft dough, let this rise in a warm place for about four hours, roll it out very thin, and damp it over with water. Have ready a teacupful or so of any cooked fruit, put 1 teaspoonful of it at distances apart over half of the round of paste, cover over with the other half, and with a biscuit-cutter cut it so as to have the fruit in Fig. 666 Dough-nut. the centre of each piece (see Fig. 666). Let them rise again for about an hour, then plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, brown, and drain them. When done, dust with caster sugar, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve. Imitation Dough-nuts.— Take seven or eight small rolls, light and at least a day old, pare off all the crust, trim them round, lay them in a shallow pan that will just hold them, and pour over J pint of milk, with 1 saltspoonful each of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, and 2oz. of sugar mixed in it. Turn the rolls over and over in the milk till they have absorbed it all, put them to drain on a sieve for a few minutes, then brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of finely-powdered crackers, fry them in boiling lard, drain them on paper, and serve hot with lemon sauce. Isle of Wight Dough-nuts.—Rub Jib. of butter and the same quantity of lard in ljlb. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in Jib. of sugar and a small quantity of allspice. Moisten with three well-beaten eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, mixed with a sufficient quantity of milk to make a smooth dough; cover the dough with a cloth, and leave it to rise in a warm temperature for four hours. Afterwards work into the dough Jib. of well-washed and dried currants and 4oz. of finely-shred candied peel, divide it into small quantities, and mould into balls. Put a quantity of lard into a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the balls or Dough-nuts, and cook them until equally browned. As they are cooked, drain them for a few seconds on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy- edged dish-paper on a hot dish, pile the balls on it, and serve. DOVES.—Popular prejudice is greatly opposed to the killing of these birds as articles of food, especially as they are so well represented by pigeons of a more common variety of the Columba'tribe. In spite of this prejudice, however, certain gourmets have declared so strongly in their favour that the two following receipts are appended. The Wood-pigeon or Ring-dove (Columba palumbus) is the variety referred to, which ranks as the largest of them all (see Pig. 667). Broiled Doves.—Pluck, draw, and singe some young Ring- doves, split them in halves down the back, beat them flat on the table, then put them into a deep dish with a little each of chopped parsley, chives, and mushrooms, season with salt and mixed spices, pour a small quantity of olive oil over them, and let them macerate for two hours. Drain on a cloth, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them to cook equally on both sides. Put in a saucepan the oil in which the Doves soaked, with a small quantity of flour, chopped capers and shallots, and a lump of butter; add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste, and stir the whole over the fire till thick and cooked. Arrange the birds in a circle on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the sauce, pour it into a sauce- boat, and serve with the Doves. ^ Dove Soup.—Pluck, draw, and singe the required number of Ring-doves, and cut them in halves ; melt Jib. of butter in a stewpan, put in the birds with a few slices of onions, carrots, and turnips, and seasonings to taste, and fry them until lightly browned; then cover them with good stock, and stew gently. When tender, take the birds out of the pan, cut the flesh from the bones, put it in a mortar, and pound until smooth, moisten- ing with a little of the cooking-liquor. Put loz. of butter in a clean saucepan, melt it, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, strain in the cooking-liquor of the birds, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling. Put 1 pint of white wine into a small saucepan, and when on the point of boiling stir in the pounded meat, then mix with the other liquor, whisking the whole well together. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. This soup is very delicious, and about four birds will make a good-sized tureen full. DOWITCHER.—A name for the red-breasted or grey snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); called also brownback and greyback. See Snipes. DOWN-EAST PUDDING.—See Puddings. dragHes .—The French name for certain coated sweetmeats, such as Sugar-plums, under which heading some practical receipts will be found. DRAINERS. — These very useful appendages to kitchen utensils are made of different shapes and materials for different purposes. They are generally either of wire, like a sieve, or of perforated sheet metal. Their use is sufficiently indicated by their name. See Strainers.528 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <5cc., referred to, see under their special heads. DRAWN BUTTER.—See Butter. DREAM CAKES.—See Cakes. DREDGERS.—Of these very useful utensils there should he at least three in each kitchen—one containing dry flour for pastry making; a second, dry flour and pow- dered salt, mixed—one part of salt to six of flour; a third, caster sugar for dressing pies. Other kinds containing coloured sugars are used by some confectioners. Dredgers are usually made of block-tin (see Fig. (168). DRESDEN -See Patties. PATTIES. DRESSING. —There are so many applications for this word that it would be im- FlG- 668- Dredger. possible to use it without some sort of qualification. Thus, we say, “ Salad-dress- ing,” dressing for a fowl, fish, joint, or fruit, signifying the preparation it has to undergo before being cooked. The term is also used to signify stuffing, or forcemeat. All these are described under their appropriate headings. DRIED PISH, FRUITS, &c. — See Fish, Fruits, &c. DRINKS.—See Beverages. DRINKING-VESSELS.—Of these it may be said that their name is legion; therefore, it would be im- possible here to do justice to a subject that has taken volumes to describe. Those of modern practical value, are described under special headings. DRIPPING.—By this term the hot fat that falls from roasting meats is referred to, of which there are as many varieties as roasts, the Dripping more or less partaking of the flavour of the article from which it drips. Beef Dripping is considered to be the best for cooking purposes, as the flavour of the meat is less objectionable in pastes; but ham Dripping makes a very good sweet cake. After the roasting is over, together with its accom- panying basting, the Dripping should be poured out of the Dripping-pan (see Roasting) through a strainer into clean jars, and as it is cooling much of the impurities will settle at the bottom with any meat juice that may be present. The Dripping should lie clarified before using, as follows : Put some Dripping into a saucepan, boil it over a slow fire for a few minutes, then skim it well and leave it till a little cooled. Put a small quantity of cold water in a jar, tie a piece of fine muslin over the top, and pour the Dripping through it. When cold and set, remove it out of the jar with the water, and put it into another jar. Whenever fresh Dripping is added to the jar, the jar should be placed in a moderate oven for a little time, so that all may be dissolved. Fresh Dripping should not be mixed with that which is already clarified, or the whole process must be gone over again. For frying, when fat is required in any quantity, clarified Dripping is generally used. Dripping Cake.—Rub 5oz. of Dripping in fib. of flour, and when smooth mix in 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, fib. of sultana raisins, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Work up these ingredients with a beaten egg and sufficient sour milk to form the whole into a light dough. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, put it at once into the oven, and bake for an hour. Turn the cake out of the tin before serving. Dripping Paste. -— For making this paste the hands and room in which it is made should be as cool as possible. Dripping—continued. For every pound of flour, use 6oz. of clarified Dripping and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Put the flour in a basin with the baking-powder and 1 pinch of salt, and then rub in the Dripping, broken up into small pieces. When it is well incorporated with the flour, and quite free from lumps, stir in gradually sufficient water to make a smooth stiff paste. Flour the paste-board and rolling-pin, and roll out the paste; then fold it over, and roll again. After repeating this operation three times in all, the paste is ready for use. Dripping Puddings.—(1) Warm 2oz. of Dripping and beat it until creamy; then mix with it 2oz. of moist sugar, 2oz. of flour, and two well-beaten eggs; add the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Butter some small cups, fill them with the mixture, and bake for lialf-an-honr. When cooked, turn the puddings out of the cups on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put i pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when hot put in 2oz. of clarified Dripping, and let it cool. When ready stir in 2oz. of flour, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in with the mixture, then add a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Butter some small tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for lialf-an-hour. Put a few table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly in a small saucepan with a teacupful of water, and make it hot. When cooked, turn the puddings out of their tins on to a hot dish, pour the currant sauce round them, and serve. DRIPPING-PANS.—The purposes for which these culinary utensils are required are associated with Basting and Roasting. They are the vessels which catch and collect the hot fat as it drips off roasting Fig. 669. Dripping-pan and Basting-ladle (Adams and Son). meat. In the centre (see Fig. 669), and sometimes at one corner, is a well with a perforated wall running- round the top, and fitted with a lid. As the fat collects in the well, it is convenient for basting, and keeps hot from its proximity to the fire. DROPS. —The name given to various sweets which will be found under their various headings. See Sugar- boiling. DROP BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. DROP CAKES.—See Cakes. DRYING. — This very necessary process depends upon the power of warmth to cause water to evaporate —that is, leave the substance containing it, and pass away as vapour. It is useful for hardening and pre- serving food such as bacon, ham, and fish, preparatory also to smoking. Confectionery, such as bonbons, lozenges, and other sweets, require drying, and for this purpose they are laid out on trays, and set in a warm chamber, fitted with ventilators; but any convenient place where there is the necessary warmth to produce the vapour and current of air to carry it off will answer every purpose. A great heat will dry the surface, but will harden it also before the internal moisture has time to exude. Dried herbs for winter use are prepared in this way, care being taken to induce a steady evaporation only; otherwise much of the essential oil which gives to them their characteristic aromatic properties will escape with the water. Drying- can be well effected if the articles to be dried are exposed to a hot sun. This is the process by which fruits are dried for exportation to our markets.LACAN i, CUMMING.LITH. EDIN? A FEW FAVOURITE CHEESES. 1. Parmesan. 2. Stilton. 3. Gruyere. 4. Bondon. 5. Dutch. 6 Camembert. 7 Roquefort 8 Neufchatel. 9. Cheshire. 10. Gorgonzola 11. Cream. 12. Devonshire Toasting Cheese. 13. Cheddar. 14. Single Gloucester. 15. Blue Dorset.529 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. DUBBERS.—These are Indian bottles used for holding ghee, oil, and other things. They are made of gelatine, prepared by boiling cuttings of skin, and shaping them on earthen moulds. They are sometimes spelled Duppas. DUCAT-NUDELS.—See Nouilles. DUCHESSE SOUP.—See Soups. DUCKS (Fr. Canards; Ger. Enten; Ital. Anitre; Sp. Anades).—There are so many kinds of Ducks, most of them edible, requiring such a variety of culinary treatment, that it is advisable to treat them under various headings, confining this article to the domestic Duck and Duckling (Anas bosclias). Of the numerous kinds and breeds in the market, none are superior to the famous large white Aylesbury Ducks. They are bred in great numbers by cottagers in Bucking- hamshire, and some other counties to which the breed has been imported, and as they sometimes weigh as much as 71b. or more, they are of great value to the breeders and the cook. Other kinds of Ducks may be mistaken for these when the feathers are plucked, even by tbe greatest epicures, for the taste of most tame Ducks is indistinguishable one from the other. It is only by their great size when quite young, and beautiful white plumage, that real Aylesbury Ducks can be selected. Ducks are in season all the year round, Ducklings com- mencing as early in the year as it is possible to get them large enough to make a dish, and assuming a more mature dignity about the middle of the year. Ducks are obtainable even when Ducklings are in their prime ; but it is admitted that a Duck more than twelve months old is too tough to make a good roast. Young birds can be detected from those over twelve months old by the colour (yellow) of their feet and bills, which snap easily, and are free from hair. These hairs about the bill may be singed off, and the feet cut away in trussing: a Duck prepared in this way before it is sold should arouse suspicion. The feet should be pliable, and the vent firm and full, otherwise it is doubtful if the Duck is as freshly killed as it should be. For instruction as to Trussing and Carving see those headings. Ducks prepared from the following receipts will be found to produce excellent dishes : Boiled Duck.— (1) Rub salt over a Duck and let it remain two days; then boil it in water or stock for thirty minutes. Make a stuffing of breadcrumbs, boiled onions, sage, butter, pepper, and salt, mixed well together. Take out the bird, stuff it, put it again in the saucepan, and boil till done. Serve with a little parsley and butter poured over. (2) Salt the Ducks in the same way as pork is salted, leaving them twenty-four hours in warm weather and forty- eight hours in cold weather ; then put them in a large saucepan, and cover them with water; when it boils, skim, and add sufficient onions to make a sauce. When the onions are done, mash them, put them in another saucepan, and add a little milk or cream, and a pinch of pepper. When the Ducks are done, dish them, pour parsley-and-butter sauce over, and serve, with the other sauce in a sauceboat. Boned Ducks stuffed and served with. Jelly.— Pick out the pin feathers of two Ducks. Let the Ducks be singed, but not drawn; then rip their skins right down the back, and with a very sharp knife sever the flesh and skin from the bones, without cutting' through; chop through the wing and hip joints with a knife, then cut with the boning-knife close to the breast-bone till the flesh of the Duck comes off in one piece. Bone partly down the wings and legs, chop off the ends, wash and dry the meat, lay it on the table skin down- wards, take scraps of meat from the thick parts and spread them over the thin, then sprinkle over a little pepper and salt, and spread forcemeat over. Pull up the two sides together so as to form the shape of the Duck before it was boned, and sew them up strongly with thread; when both Ducks are so prepared, roll each separately in muslin, securing it tightly at the ends and in the middle, and boil from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. When they are done, put them (with the muslin still on) in oblong rounded bowls Ducks—continued. to keep them a good shape, put a dish on the top of each and a weight on that, and leave them to get cold. When ready to serve, take off the muslin, wipe them with a cloth dipped in hot water, trim off the ragged edges, and mask them over with melted butter. Cut the Ducks in slices, and arrange these on a dish with croutons of aspic jelly. Braised Duck.—(1) Draw and clean a large Duck, stuff the breast with bread or meat stuffing, and truss it. Put some slices of fat bacon or a little butter in a stewpan; when melted, place the Duck over it, on its breast first, to give it a little colour, then turn it over. When the back is slightly coloured, surround it with whole vegetables, such as carrots, potatoes, &c.; add salt, pepper, and seasoning, and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, and simmer over the fire till the liquid has reduced to glaze; then add broth and white wine to reach to half the height of the Duck, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and braise it. When done, take out the Duck and vegetables, and reduce the liquor to half-glaze. Untruss the Duck, and dish it. Strain and skim the stock, and thicken it with a little brown sauce. Garnish the Duck with the vegetables, pour a little of the sauce over it, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. See Fig. 670. (2) Slice two onions, and put them between two plates in an oven for two or three minutes; then take them out, chop finely, mix with them 1 dessert-spoonful of sage, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff a small Duck with the preparation, fasten it securely and truss it, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry to a good brown ; then add one onion cut in slices and gravy to half the height of the Duck, and simmer gently, with hot ashes on the lid of the pan. In three-quarters-of- an-hour take out the Duck (but keep it warm), strain and skim the liquor in which it was cooked, and reduce it to half its original quantity. Put the Duck back in the stewpan, and keep it just below simmering-point at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then dish it, and serve with green peas mashed and rubbed through a sieve. This may either be arranged in lumps round the dish or served in a separate dish. (3) Draw and truss a Duck. Line the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, sprinkle in a little chopped parsley, chives, thyme, and lemon-peel; put in the Duck, add a carrot sliced lengthwise, one onion stuck with three cloves, a little pepper and salt, and sufficient white wine and broth in equal parts to cover it. Simmer till done, basting frequently. In the meantime, have ready several slices of turnip fried brown in butter. Take the Duck out, keep it hot, put the turnips in the gravy, and stew them till they are tender. Remove the turnips, and strain and skim the gravy; if not thick enough, add a little flour, and boil. Dish the Duck, garnish with the turnips and other vegetables, pour the gravy over, and serve. (4) Pluck and draw a Duck, singe it, and rub it over with butter that has been slightly warmed, but not oiled; then put it in a stewpan, and turn it about over the fire until lightly browned. Lift the Duck out of the stewpan for a minute, while the bottom is being covered with slices of carrot and onion, celery, two bay-leaves, and a few cloves and leaves of sage, and then lay it on the vegetables back downwards; pour in a small quantity of water, put on the lid with hot embers on top, and cook the contents at the side of the fire until the vegetables are tender. Season with salt, and as the moisture evaporates, pour in more water in small quantities. When the Duck is cooked, take it out of the saucepan, pass the liquor and vegetables through a fine hair sieve, and skim off the fat. Put loz. of butter in a 2 uTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 530 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. saucepan with. 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until browned ; pour in the sauce, and boil again. Place the Duck on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Braised Duck a l'lmperatrice. — Cut off the wing and half of the breast of a Duck, take off the skin, remove the bone from the wing, and fill np its place with quenelle force- meat. Lard the breast, put it into a braising-pan over slices | of leeks, carrots, onions, a little parsley, thyme, chervil, bay- leaves, celeriac, and lemon-peel, and pour over sufficient stock j to prevent burning. Set the pan on the fire and braise the j half Duck, then glaze it, put it on a dish over a layer of cooked sea-kale, and serve with a pur<5e of beans for garnish. Braised Duck •with Mushrooms.—Braise a Duck. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, add a few chives, several finely- j minced mushrooms, and a bunch of parsley, and fry them for ten minutes ; dredge in a little flour, add the liquor from the Duck after braising, and stir over the fire for a few minutes ; then skim off the fat, and strain. Dish the Duck, pour over the gravy, and serve. Braised Duck with Sour-crout.—Have ready some pickled sour-crout, drain it, and put it in a braising-pan; add one or two thin slices of belly of fat pork, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, a blade of mace, two or three bay-leaves, a bunch of spring onions, a little whole pepper, and spice. Put the Duck (drawn and cleaned) in the middle of the pan, add some fat that has been skimmed off broth, and some German sausag-e, a knuckle of ham, or pork sausage-meat. Sausages should not be added till half-an-hour before dishing. Stand the pan over a slow fire, with hot ashes on the lid, and let the contents cook for three hours. Drain the sour-crout, spread it in the bottom of the dish, put the Duck over it, and garnish with the sausages and pork. Serve hot. Capilotade of Duck.—Take the remains of any cold Ducks, cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan, cover with a thin Italian sauce, and simmer on the side of the fire. Cut some slices of bread into the shape of kites, and fry them. Dish the pieces of Duck, garnish with the fried bread, pour the sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 671. Devilled Duck.—Clean a good-sized Duck, and split it down the back. Make a mixture of dry mustard, pepper, salt, and chutney, rub it all over the Duck, having previously pricked the skin with a fork, and broil it for twenty minutes. Put [ in a stewpan teacupful each of white wine, mushroom ketchup, lemon-pickle, and stock, and add a little sugar. Dish the Duck, pour the sauce, when hot, over it, and serve. Ducks a la Chasseur.—Singe, draw, and truss three Ducks, and cook them in a stewpan with a piece of butter over a I moderate fire. Fry the livers of the Ducks with more poultry livers, or slices of pig’s or calf’s liver; when they are cool, pound them, pass through a sieve, mix in a little glaze, I and with it mask a few breadcrusts cut into oblong shapes and browned in butter. Arrange a heap of green peas or any other vegetable in the centre of a dish, cut the Ducks into pieces or fillets, trim them, arrange them with the crusts round the pyramid, and place a decorated attelette in the centre of the heap (see Fig. 672). Mask the fillets of Ducks with brown sauce reduced with Madeira, and serve. More of the sauce may be served in a sauceboat. Duck Boopiaja.—Brown twelve onions in a frying-pan with 3oz. of fat, and take them out when done. Put in 4 tea- spoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, % teaspoonful each of ground ginger, coriander- and cumin-seeds, and 5- teaspoonful of ground garlic, Ducks—continued. and brown them slightly; then put in a Duck cut up into sixteen or eighteen pieces, If teaspoonfuls of salt, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and simmer over a slow fire for a little more than one hour, or until the meat is quite done. Put the curry on a dish, chop up the onions and sprinkle them over, and serve as hot as possible. 4 Duck Pie.—(1) Cut off the neck Horn a Duck, then skin it, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put the well-washed giblets over the fire, together with an anchovy, a little whole black pepper, a small bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a bit of mace, a crust of bread toasted very brown, a very little cayenne, and loz. of butter; cover the pan till the butter is quite melted and all are quite hot, then add f pint of boiling water, and stew till quite tender. Take up the giblets, strain the liquor, and let it and the giblets stand till quite cold. When the Duck has boiled, take it up, and while it is hot cut it in pieces. When the giblets are cold, put them into the pie-dish, pour in the skimmed liquor they were boiled in with the gravy that has run from the Duck, season the Duck with salt and pepper, put it into the pie-dish with a few bits of butter, cover with puff paste or short-crust, and bake. (2) Cut off all the flesh in slices from a couple of cold roasted Ducks, put a strip of truffle forcemeat (using lib. in all) on each, roll them up, and put away until wanted. Prepare a thick jelly with the bones and trimmings. Line a pie-dish (such as used for Melton pies) with paste, put in the rolls, pour in the warm jelly, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take it out, glaze, decorate according to fancy, and serve. (3) Finely mince the meat from a couple of Ducks, also 4oz. of ham and the Duck’s livers, mixing in 1 teaspoonful of powdered sweet herbs and the grated rind of half a lemon, and seasoning with mace, cayenne, salt, and pepper. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the mince, fill up with rich jelly made from the bones, cover over with more paste, decorate with leaves, &c., bake in a moderate oven, glaze it when done, and serve either hot or cold. Duck Sandwiches.—Trim off the skin of the remains of any cold roasted Duck, chop the meat, put it in a saucepan with a lump of butter, season it with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. When the butter has dis- solved, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, mix in the beaten white of one egg, and continue stirring till the mixture is nearly cold. Put the meat into a mould, press it down tightly, and pack the mould in ice. When cold, turn the meat out of the mould, cut it into thin slices, and put these between thin slices of bread-and-butter, dusting a little pepper and salt over them. Cut the sandwiches into fingers, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or fancy dish-paper on a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Duck Soup.—(1) Put a small Duck, previously drawn and trussed, into a stewpan with half a sliced carrot, three or four small sliced onions, 1 pinch of salt, and 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and fry over a moderate fire ; stir, add 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, reduce, and cover liberally with broth ; when the broth boils, remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, and simmer till the Duck is sufficiently cooked. Take out the Duck, drain it, and keep it hot. Skim and strain the liquid. Cut out of a turnip with a small vegetable-spoon several small balls about the size of Spanish nuts, blanch them for nineTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 531 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. or ten minutes, drain, put them in a skillet, add 1 saltspoonful of sugar and a small piece of butter, and fry over a sharp | fire till a rich brown ; then add a little broth, and reduce, j Prepare a roux, mix it with the Duck broth, and stir over I the fire till it bubbles ; then move it off, and let it simmer I at the side for twenty minutes. Skim the fat off the soup, strain it, and put it back into the stewpan. Cut off the | meat in slices from the Duck’s breast, put it in a tureen, j pour the soup over it, drop in the turnips, and serve. (2) Prepare a good-sized Duck, cut it into six pieces, chop the back in halves, put all into a stewpan with the neck and pinions, add a piece of butter, and fry for ten minutes over a ' moderate Are; add three rashers of fat bacon, blanched and cut into squares, sprinkle over a little flour, salt, and pepper, and fry this over the fire for two or three minutes longer; then add lqt. of hot broth. When this boils, move the stewpan a little to the side, put on the cover, and simmer for half-an-hour; then add some carrots, celery-roots, and turnips cut into balls, and half-an-hour later add some potatoes, also cut in balls, and season to taste. Put one dozen small onions in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown ; season with pepper and salt, add a little broth, and reduce till the onions are glazed. Ten minutes before ready to dish, skim the fat off the soup, and put in the onions. Dish and serve. (3) Singe and draw a Duck, wash its giblets, put both in a saucepan with an onion, cover over with cold water, and boil slowly at the side of the fire. When the Duck and giblets are tender, take them out of the saucepan. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a small quantity of water to a smooth paste, stir it in with the soup, add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and season with salt and pepper. Partially boil a few small equal-sized potatoes, drain them, put them in the soup, fill up the saucepan with clear broth, and boil for twenty minutes. Cut the flesh of the Duck into small pieces, and put them with the giblets in the soup. When ready, turn all into a tureen, and serve. (4) Pomeranian.—Singe and draw two Ducks, and blanch them for a few minutes in boiling water; put them in a stewpan with a piece of chopped celery-root, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf; pour over them 4qts. of broth, place them over the fire until boiling, then move to the side and keep it simmering gently until the Ducks are tender. Drain them, skim off the fat of their cooking-liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a clean saucepan, mix in a small quantity of white roux, stir the soup over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Peel and cut some potatoes into small round balls and boil them gently until tender. Cut off the meat from the bones of the Ducks and trim it into even-shaped pieces; put these in the soup to warm up again. Drain the potatoes, put them in a soup- tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Hashed Suck.—Draw and clean a Duck, cut it in pieces, and put it in a saucepan. Fry a chopped onion in a little butter, thicken it with flour, put it in with the Duck, season with pepper and salt, and add a little soy or ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, and a little sugar. When the Duck is cooked, dish it, and garnish with fried croutons of bread. Indian Dumpode, or Dam-pukht of Duck.—Pluck and clean a fat Duck, bone it without injuring the skin, and mask it inwardly with a mixture of 1 teaspoonful each of any sauce, sweet-oil, and mustard. With the bones and giblets prepare a gravy, seasoning highly with sweet herbs, bay-leaves, salt, and pepper. Chop finely the Duck’s liver, fib. of beef-suet, and 2|lb. of beef, without skin or fat, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and black pepper, half the quantity each of pounded mixed hot spices and essence of anchovies (if not objected to), 1 dessert-spoonful of minced sweet herbs, and 1 table-spoonful of sifted breadcrumbs. Stuff the Duck with this mixture. Melt 3oz. of fat in a saucepan, put in the Duck, pour over the strained giblet gravy, and cook on a moderate fire until tender. Take out the Duck, glaze it, and serve with a garnish of hot West-Indian pickle and glazed cooked vegetables. Leg's and Wings of Duck witli Scrur-crout.—Cut off the legs and wings of a braised Duck and keep them hot. Take out the stalk of a white cabbage and mince the remainder. Cut off a few slices from the belly-part of fat pork, trim Ducks—continued. them into lin. squares, and fry lightly; put the chopped cabbage in with the fat, having first taken out the pork. When the cabbage is nearly done put the pork in again, add a little thin brown sauce, skim off the fat, and reduce until moderately thick. When done, spread the preparation over the Duck, and serve. Puree of Duck.—Fillet a roasted Duck, skin it, take out the bones, and pound the flesh in a mortar with a piece of butter and a little grated nutmeg; add 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce and the yolks of four eggs; when thoroughly mixed, pass all through a sieve. Fry three sliced onions in a little butter till brown; sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and fry for a few minutes longer; add gradually 2qts. of broth and stir till boiling; move the stewpan on one side, add a bunch of herbs and a handful of the trimmings of mushrooms, and simmer for twenty-five minutes. Skim and strain the soup, add the puree of Duck, boil up again, and serve in a tureen with sippets of toast. Roasted Ducks.—(1) Remove the pinions, legs, crop, entrails, and oil-bags, truss the birds, rub a little butter over them, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, and roast in a hot oven for twenty or thirty minutes. Should they be preferred Fig. 673. Roasted Ducks and Peas. stuffed, peel, core, and quarter some apples, and fill the body with them, removing them when the bird is done, as they are not fit to eat, the flavour being too strong. Serve with olive sauce and green peas. See Fig. G73. (2) Prepare a Duck for roasting, and put an onion cut in halves in the body of the bird ; truss it, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, and roast before a quick fire for forty minutes, basting continually with butter. Remove the skewers, &c., from the Duck, dish it, pour over a little rich brown gravy, and serve with red-currant jelly, and Spanish sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Blanch lib. of onions, cut in slices, with twenty-four sage-leaves for five minutes; then drain and mince them, put them in a stewpan, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time; add f teacupful of breadcrumbs, and stir for another three minutes. Truss the Duck, stuff it with the above preparation, and roast it before a very brisk fire for sixteen minutes, basting continually. Dish, pour over a rich brown gravy, and serve. (4) German Style.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Duck. Peel a sufficient quantity of apples, cut them in quarters, core them, and mix with them 1 teacupful of currants, soaked in hot water until plump, and 2oz. of butter. Stuff the Duck with the apple mixture, truss it, bind a sheet of buttered paper round it, and roast it in front of a brisk fire, basting frequently with butter. When nearly cooked, remove the paper, so that it may brown lightly. Put the Duck on a hot dish, and serve with it a sauce- boatful of clear gravy, and any other accompaniments liked in the way of vegetables. Roasted Duck ■with Orange Sauce.—While the Duck is roasting, scrape 1 table-spoonful each of fat bacon and raw onion, and fry them together for five minutes; add the juice of an orange, 1 wineglassful of port wine, the drippings from the Duck, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Keep this hot without boiling, and serve it with the Duck when the latter is done. UTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 532 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. Ro^olnic of Duck. —This is' a famous Polish dish, and is prepared as follows : Dress a Duck, put it into a stewpan with its giblets, and cover it with warm water; when this boils, remove from the fire, drain the Duck, plunge it into cold water, take it out, and divide it into four parts. Chop finely one leek and one onion, and put them in a stewpan, add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, the Duck, and the g'iblets, and fry over a moderate fire; season with salt and pepper, sprinkle in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and add 2qts. of broth and 1 breakfast-cupful of cucumber-juice (the Poles use the juice of the ogursis, which is a sort of native gherkin pickled in salted water) ; when the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, add a few sprigs of thyme, fennel, and parsley, and a bay-leaf, and simmer till the Duck is quite done. Take out the quarters of Duck and drain, skim the fat off the liquor, and strain it into another stewpan. Cut several roots of parsley and young carrots into shapes of little pointed columns an inch long, and make two cuts, form- ing a cross in the thick end of each of these columns, then put them in salted water, and boil till nearly done; drain, and put them in a stewpan with a little broth. Cut two large ogursis in strips nearly lin. broad, shape these into lozenges, blanch them, put them with the carrots and parsley roots into the strained soup, and boil for twenty minutes. Skim, thicken the soup with the yolks of three eggs beaten with the juice of the ogursis, add the pieces of Duck, the giblets, and a bunch of fresh fennel, and boil all up again; then serve. Salmis of Duck.—(1) Cut off the fillets from a cold roasted Duck, trim them, put them in a stewpan with a sprinkling of salt and allspice, and add 1 teacupful of olive oil and 1 wineglassful of claret; stir over a fire till the fillets are hot through, then dish, and serve. (2) Clean and draw a Duck, put the giblets in a stewpan, add three finely-chopped shallots, season with cayenne, salt, and pepper, cover with veal broth, and stew at the side of the fire. Meanwhile, roast the Duck till half done, then cut it up, put it in the stewpan with the giblets, cook until the bird is done, and then dish. Squeeze the juice of a bitter orange in the sauce, strain it, and pour it over the Duck before serving. (3) Singe, draw, and wipe two Ducks, and cut off their wings, legs, and breasts. Put the two carcases in a saucepan, sprinkle over a little salt, and place in the oven to cook for six minutes; then remove them, break them up, put back into the saucepan with 1 pint of white broth and a small bunch of sweet herbs, and stew over a moderate fire for fifteen or twenty minutes. Put loz. of butter in a saute-pan, then the wings, legs, and breasts, season with salt and pepper, and cook on a very brisk fire for three minutes on each side ; add J wineglassful of Madeira wine, J pint of Spanish sauce, and the zest of a lemon, strain the gravy of the carcases over, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Place the salmis on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried hominy, and serve. (4) Clean two Ducks as for No. 3, and add twelve glazed onions and two raw carrots cut in shapes like cloves of garlic, and cooked in salted water for ten minutes; add also Joz. of salted pork cut in square pieces; cook together with the Ducks for fifteen minutes longer, and serve. (5) The same as for No. 3, adding twelve sliced mushrooms, and serving with croutons of bread. (6) Prepare the salmis the same as for No. 3, adding twelve small forcemeat quenelles and twelve mushrooms cut in halves. Warm the whole over the fire for five minutes, and serve with croutons of fried bread. (7) Proceed in the same way as for No. 3, adding 1 break- fast-cupful of parboiled and stoned olives to the sauce, and substituting croutons of fried bread for the hominy. Salmis of Duck •with Montglas.—Clean and prepare two Ducks, cut away their wings, legs, and breasts, and put the carcases in a roasting-pan; sprinkle over a little salt, spread on each bird a little butter, and place them in the oven for six minutes. Remove them, break them up, lay in a saucepan, moisten with 1 pint of white broth, add a small bouquet garni, and cook for fifteen minutes. Put loz. of butter in a saut£-pan, add the wings, legs, and breasts, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and cook over a brisk fire for Ducks—continued. three minutes on each side. Add 1 wineglassful of sherry, J pint of Spanish sauce, J pint of tomato sauce, two thin slices of smoked ox-tongue cut in small square pieces, two chopped truffles, and six mushrooms ; strain the gravy of the carcases over this, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Place the salmis on a hot dish, garnish with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, put paper ruffles on the ends of- the wings and legs, and serve. Stewed Duck.—(1) Prepare two Ducks, cut them into joints, put in a stewpan with 1 pint of rich gravy, let this come to the boil, and as the scum rises remove it ; season with salt and cayenne, and stew gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Mix smoothly 2 teaspoonfuls of ground rice with 1 wineglass- ful of port wine, stir it into the gravy, and boil for seven or eight minutes longer ; then turn the whole on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Singe, clean, and bone a Duck. Mix together 1 tea- spoonful each of soy, stewed apple, olive oil, and mustard oil, and pour the mixture inside the bird. Stew the giblets in water to make a gravy, and flavour it with pepper, salt, and about 1 teaspoonful of sweet herbs. Chop 21b. of beef- suet and the Duck’s liver very small, add 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful each of sweet herbs, chillies, and mixed spices, with salt and pepper to taste; when well mixed, stuff the Duck with this, together with 2oz. of melted butter. Put the bird in a stewpan, strain the giblet-gravy and pour it over, stand the pan close to the fire, and simmer gently till the Duck is tender. Dish, surround with some plain boiled vegetables, pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Singe and draw two Ducks, rinse them inwardly, cut into quarters, put in a stewpan in which 3oz. or 4oz. of butter has been melted, dredge over a little flour, season with salt and pepper, and fry till a light brown all over; strain off the fat, sprinkle over more flour, add 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, 1 wineglassful of port wine, two finely-chopped shal- lots, one anchovy, or a little of the sauce, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a pinch of cayenne; cover the stewpan, and simmer for twenty or thirty minutes. Dish the Ducks, take the herbs out of the sauce, skim off the fat, pour the sauce over the birds, and serve. Stewed Duck with. Chestnuts.— Draw and prepare a Duck, lard the breast with bacon, and roast it before a brisk fire for fifteen minutes. Put in a stewpan 1 pint of beef-gravy, two dozen roasted and peeled chestnuts, two onions sliced and fried in butter, a small sprig of sage and thyme, and season Fig. 674. Stewed Duck with Chestnuts. with pepper and salt. Put the Duck cut up in the stewpan, place the cover on, stand the pan by the side of the fire, and simmer for twenty minutes ; then dish it. Skim the gravy, take out the herbs, add 1 teacupful of port wine, thicken with flour and butter, and boil it up ; then pour it over the Duck, and serve with the Chestnuts round it. See Pig. 674. Stewed Duck with Green Peas.—(1) Put in a stewpan Jib. of lean bacon cut into 2in. squares and the rind cut off, add a piece of butter, and fry to a light brown ; sift in a little flour, stir over the fire till brown, add one onion stuck with four- cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of broth, and season with salt and pepper. Put the Duck, previously browned in front of a brisk fire for ten minutes, in a stewpan, and simmer gently by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-quarter, or a little longer if necessary. Put lqt. of peas in a separate pan, and while the Duck is cook- ing, stew them in butter. When done, put the peas on a hot dish, and stand the Duck on them. Strain the gravy,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 533 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. thicken it, pour it over the Duck, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Prepare and cook a large Duck as for Stewed Duck with Turnips ; separate the breast, wings, legs, and back, and pare and trim them. Put 2qts. of green peas in a stewpan with a little water and 2oz. of fresh butter; mix the butter with the peas, drain the peas by taking them out with the hand, and let them dry. Put Jib. of lean bacon freed of the rind and cut into lin. squares into a stewpan, and fry till brown; drain off the fat, put in the peas, and let them sweat till very green ; stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of flour and some boiling water, add the pieces of Duck, a few sprays of parsley, two or three green onions, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When the Duck is done, dish it with the peas ; then take the onions and parsley out of the gravy, skim the fat off, and pour the gravy over the Duck. Serve very hot. (3) Singe, draw, and clean a Duck, stuff it with sage-and- onion forcemeat, and roast it for ten minutes in front of a brisk fire. Put in a stewpan a little chopped onion, black pepper, sage, marjoram, winter savory, and 1 pint of rich brown gravy ; put the partly-cooked Duck in this, and simmer for twenty minutes ; skim off all the fat, take out the herbs, pour in lqt. of partly-cooked green peas, and simmer for half-an-hour longer. A cabbage, previously boiled and fried in butter, may be used instead of the peas. When done, thicken the sauce with flour and butter. Dish, garnish with croutons of toast, and serve. (4) Cut the Duck in pieces, season them with the peel of half a lemon chopped very fine, and cayenne and salt to taste. Put them into a stewpan, pour over £ pint of good gravy, set the stewpan over the fire, and let the Duck get very hot, but do not let the gravy boil. Boil some green peas, drain and stir into them a piece of butter, pile them in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Duck round, and pour the gravy over the Duck. Stewed Duck with Olives.—(1) Prepare and truss a Duck, making it as plump as possible, squeeze lemon-juice all over it, rubbing it in. Put the Duck in a stewpan with a good- sized piece of butter, and brown it all over; stir in 1 dessert- spoonful of flour, and when brown add 1 breakfast-cupful of broth. Remove the kernels from some olives (by peeling them thick), scald them in boiling water, and when the Duck is nearly done, add them to the stewpan, and cook. When ready, dish the Duck, and arrange the olives round it; skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over the Duck, and serve. (2) Pluck and draw a Duck, truss it with its legs tucked inside, and put an onion inside it. Finely chop 2 or 3 small slices of fat bacon, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and toss them over the fire until warmed; next put in the Duck with its breast downwards, and fry it gently until it begins to brown ; then turn it over and put in with it a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and moisten nearly to height with clear stock. Stew it gently at the side of the fire until tender. Stone and par- tially boil the required quantity of olives; put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until blended; then strain in as much of the cooking-liquor of the Duck as will make a sufficient quantity of sauce, continue stirring it over the fire until boiling; then put in the olives, and boil them for a few minutes. Place the Duck on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, garnish round with the olives, and serve. Stewed Duck with Tomato Sauce.—Singe and draw a large Duck, and wash it inwardly. Clean three dozen small mush- rooms, peel, and chop their stalks, put them in a stewpan, and add a quarter the quantity of chopped ham and bacon, the liver of the Duck, three filleted anchovies, 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley, seasoning with pepper and salt. Stuff the Duck with the preparation, truss it, put it in a stewpan with a little chopped bacon and two whole onions, and fry till brown over a moderate fire ; add the heads of the mushrooms cut in halves, salt and pepper, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic, and fry for ten minutes longer ; then pour in J pint of white wine. Put the lid on the stewpan with some live embers on the top, and let the contents simmer. When the Duck is done, take it out, drain, and dish it. Skim off the fat from the gravy, thicken Ducks—continued. it with tomato sauce, and boil up again ; then pour it round the Duck, and serve. Stewed Duck with Turnips.—(1) Prepare and truss a Duck, with its feet tucked behind ; put it in a stewpan with a little butter, and brown it; add 1 teacupful of broth, and season with salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf. Turn the bird occasionally, and when the broth boils, add a bunch of parsley and a few chives or spring onions. Put more butter in a frying-pan; when melted, fry in it some slices of turnips to a bright brown, then drain them. When the Duck is nearly cooked, add the fried turnips, and simmer gently. When done, dish the Duck, arrange the turnips round it; strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour, boil it up again, adding more seasoning if required, and serve. Or the Duck may be dished in the follow- ing manner, which gives it a more showy appearance : Cut some turnips in quarters, and boil them till tender; drain, and mash them, season with pepper, salt, and 1 piled teaspoonful of caster sugar, and mix in thoroughly 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Put this turnip puree in a saucepan, stir it about over the fire till quite stiff, and then spread it over the bottom of a dish; lay the Duck on this, garnish with slices of fried turnip, and serve. (2) Prepare and truss a large Duck, turning the legs inside, put it in a stewpan with some fat bacon cut in small pieces and one large onion, and fry it over a steady fire, turning it to colour both sides ; add white wine and broth to reach nearly to the top of the Duck, and season with pepper and salt. When the liquor boils, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer gently on the side of the fire, putting some hot cinders on the lid. In half-an-hour’s time stir in with the stock a little brown sauce to thicken it. Cut some large turnips into quarters, blanch and drain them, and fry till brown on a brisk fire, seasoning with salt, pepper, and a little sugar ; add this to the Duck when it is three-parts done, and continue simmering till cooked. Drain, and dish the Duck ; take the herbs out of the sauce, skim off all the fat, put the garnish round the bird, and serve. Ducklings.—Ducklings that come in witli tlie first crop of green peas may be considered early; any before that will probably be somewhat tasteless and scraggy. The following receij>ts are contributed by some of our most famous cooks : Curried Duckling. — Put 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, J tea- spoonful of ground ginger, and \ teaspoonful of ground garlic into a saucepan with 2oz. of boiling fat, and brown them ; add a Duckling cut up into several pieces and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and brown the former slightly; pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of water, and simmer on the side of the fire until the meat is quite tender, which will occupy about an-hour-and- a-half. When done, turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Half a teaspoonful each of ground coriander- and cumin-seeds may be added to this curry with advantage. Ducklings with. Olives.—Singe, draw, truss, and blanch two Ducklings for a few minutes in boiling water. Put a few thin slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, and fry for a few minutes. Drain the Ducklings, put them in the stewpan, and brown over the fire ; then add sufficient broth to reach to the top of the Ducklings, with a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, one carrot, one onion, and a few peppercorns; boil for a few minutes, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer till the Ducklings are done, turning occasionally. When ready, take out the birds, untruss them, and keep them hot. Skim the fat off the broth, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, and boil; then strain, reduce to half-glaze, thicken with kneaded butter or brown sauce, and add four dozen blanched and stoned large olives. Dish the Ducklings, garnish with the olives, pour the gravy over, and serve. Ducklings with Sour-crout.—Prepare three Ducklings, put them in a braising-pan with a very little broth or water, and glaze them ; then cut each one into five pieces, put these in a stewpan with a little brown sauce, and keep them hot. Cook 21b. of sour-crout with two small saveloys. Half- an-hour before serving, drain the sour-crout, heap it on a dish, place four croustades of fried bread at equal distances round it, and arrange the fillets, breast pieces and legs leaning against the sour-crout; place an attelette with534 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Ducks—continued. a button-mushroom on it in the centre (see Fig. 675), and serve with a sauceboatful of sauce, and the saveloys cut in slices on a separate dish. Fillets of Duckling’s served with Green Peas. -(1) Eoast two or three Ducklings in front of a clear fire for twenty minutes, basting frequently. Boil 1J pints of green peas, and when tender strain off the water. Mash lib. or so of boiled potatoes, put them into a border-mould, poach in the bain-marie for a few minutes, and then turn them out on to a hot dish. Cut as many thin croutons of bread as fillets, and fry them in butter till browned. When the Duck- lings are cooked, cut off the fillets, trim them, and arrange alternately with the croutons on the border of potatoes. Strain the gravy that has run from the Ducklings into the stewpan with the peas, put in 2oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and a little salt, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Beat the yolk of an egg with J teacupful of cream or milk, then mix it in with the sauce, and stir by the side of the fire till thick. The sauce must not boil after the egg is added. Heap the peas in the centre of the dish, and serve. (2) Boast and fillet Ducklings as for No. 1, score the skin, arrange the fillets in a circle on a dish, fill the centre with plain-boiled green peas, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Fillets of Duckling with Macedoine of Vegetables.— Boast four Ducklings, basting them frequently. Cook separately in white stock, with a little sugar, equal quanti- ties of button-onions, carrots, and turnips, the carrots and turnips being cut into balls the size of the onions ; stew some cabbage in broth till tender, and then drain and press it almost dry. The vegetables must not be overdone, or they would break in the dressing. Butter a large, plain, oval mould, line it with buttered paper, put a row of the onions round the bottom, then a row of carrots, next a row of turnips, and so on till the top of the mould is reached; then fill the hollow with the stewed cabbage, stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and place it over the fire till wanted for serving. Cut off the fillets from the Ducklings when cooked, and trim them neatly. Turn the vegetable-shape out of the mould on to a hot dish, arrange the fillets in the form of a crown on the top, fill the centre with a macedoine of vegetables, and serve. Fried Fillets of Ducklings a la Bigarade.—Pour 2| break- fast-cupfuls of brown sauce into a stewpan, with half that quantity of white stock; cut off. the fillets from one or two Ducklings, put the bones into the sauce, and boil till reduced to half-glaze. Cut the thinly-pared rind of an orange into small pieces and blanch for five minutes. Trim the fillets of the Ducklings, put them into a buttered saute-pan, and fry over a slow fire, keeping them white. Strain the sauce, put in the orange-peel, stir and boil for a few minutes, and then squeeze in the juice of the orange. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the fillets in the centre, pour over the sauce, and serve very hot. Roasted Ducklings.—(1) Draw and wash inwardly two fat Ducklings, and put a small bunch of herbs inside.; singe them, twist the legs over the drumsticks, truss, and roast them on a spit in front of a good fire for twenty-five minutes, basting with clarified butter, and dredging a little flour and salt For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ducks—continued. over them just before they are taken up. Dish, garnish with cooked trufiles and mushrooms, and serve with a sauce- boatful of rich gravy. See Fig. 676. (2) American.—Singe, draw, and wipe a Duckling weighing 31b. or 311b., then stuff it with forcemeat, place it in a roasting- pan with Joz. of butter, sprinkle with salt, and cook in the oven for forty minutes, basting occasionally. Lay the bird on a dish and untruss it ; skim the fat off the liquor, add 1 teacupful of white broth, let it come to a boil, then strain it over the bird, and garnish with fried hominy. Roasted Duckling with. Apple Sauce.—Prepare and truss a tender Duckling of about 3Jlb. weight, place it in a roasting- pan, spread over Joz. of butter and 1 pinch of salt, put it in a brisk oven, and cook for thirty minutes, basting occasionally with its own liquor. Place it on a hot dish and untruss it; skim the fat off the liquor in the pan, pour in 1 teacupful of broth, let it come to the boil, then strain it over the Duck, garnish with watercress, and serve with hot apple sauce in a sauceboat. Roasted Duckling with Onion Stuffing.—(1) Pluck and singe a Duckling, wipe it with a wet towel, cut off the head and feet, and draw it without breaking the intestines. Wash two large bunches of spring onions, cut them into Jin. lengths, put them into boiling salted water, boil for five minutes, and then drain them; add to the onions an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Stuff the Duckling with this, truss it, put it into a roasting-pan just large enough to hold it, and set it in a very hot oven, or roast it before the fire. When it is brown, season with salt and pepper, and baste it with the drippings in the pan. Bake the Duckling for about lialf-an-hour, or until it is done, then put it on a hot dish. Set the pan over the fire, stir into the drippings 1 piled table-spoonful of flour, and when this is brown add 1 pint of boiling water ; season the gravy thus made with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and then serve it with the Duckling. The Duckling may be served with a garnish of watercress, or with apple sauce, or pickled apples. (2) Boil five small onions for ten minutes, then strain, and chop them very fine; add 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, a small quantity of sage, mustard, pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful of brandy, and 1 table-spoonful of melted butter. Stuff a Duckling with this, and roast it before a quick fire for lialf-an-hour, basting continually. Dish it, and pour over some gravy made from the drippings of the Duckling, adding to it the juice of half a lemon; or the gravy may be mixed with J pint of beef stock and 1 teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, with a little roux added to thicken it, and served in a boat. (3) Singe, draw, and prepare a fat Duckling, chop up its liver and crop with an equal quantity of bacon, add 1 pinch of chopped onion, a little chopped parsley, 1 good-sized table- spoonful of breadcrumbs, 1 pinch of sage-leaves, and J salt- spoonful each of salt and pepper, mixing all with the yolk of one egg. Stuff the bird with this, truss it, put it on a spit, and roast for twenty-five or thirty minutes, basting continu- ally with butter; sprinkle over a little salt, take it from the fire, remove the skewers and strings, and dish. Garnish with lemons cut in halves, and serve with a rich brown gravy in a sauceboat. Roasted Ducklings with Orange Sauce. -Pluck, draw, and singe two Ducklings, and chop the livers, hearts, and gizzards. Grate the rind of two oranges, and squeeze out the juice ; mix the minced liver, &c., with the grated orange-peel, add an equal bulk of breadcrumbs softened with cold water, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Ducklings with this, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 535 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—continued. truss them, and roast before a moderate fire, basting with their own drippings, or with a little butter. When they are done, take them out, set the dripping-pan over the fire, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, brown it, then stir in the orange- juice and enough hot water to make the sauce of the proper consistency, and boil; season with salt and pepper. Pour this round the Ducklings, or serve it in a sauceboat. Roasted Fillets of Ducklings served -with Stewed Endive.—Pluck, draw, and singe two Ducklings, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting occasionally. Binse a few white heads of endive in plenty of water, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil till tender; then drain and chop finely. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1J- table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but not browned; then put in the minced endive, a small piece of white glaze, a little more than ^ pint of white sauce, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, salt, and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; stir this over the fire till quite hot, and then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. When the Ducklings are cooked, cut off their fillets, trim them to a good shape, arrange in circular order on a hot dish (or they may be dished on a border of potatoes), turn the endive into the centre, and serve very hot. Stewed Ducklings.—Singe and draw two Ducklings, truss them with the legs thrust inside, lay them in a roasting- pan, cover them with \oz. of butter, season with salt, and set them in the oven for ten minutes. Cut four medium-sized turnips into small dice-shaped pieces, put them in a saucepan with ioz. of butter and 5 teaspoonful of crushed loaf sugar, cook for ten minutes, and moisten with 1 pint of Spanish sauce. Lay the Ducks in the saucepan with the turnips, and cook again for twenty-five minutes. Arrange the birds on a hot dish, untruss them, garnish the dish with the turnips, pour the sauce over all, and serve. Stewed Fillets of stuffed Duckling.—Split the Duckling- down the back, remove the backbone, spread the bird open, and then take out the other bones. Put a little chopped chicken-meat in a mortar, pound it, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put half as much bread panada as there is pounded meat into a mortar, with 2oz. of butter and loz. of scraped fat bacon, and pound together; mix them with the pounded meat, season to taste, and add four eggs, one at a time ; spread the forcemeat over the Duckling, seeing that all the cavities left by the bones are filled, and smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife. Put a few thin slices of fat bacon in a flat stewpan with slices of onions and a bunch of parsley, lay the Duckling in, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, pour in ^ pint or so of white stock, and place the stewpan in a slow oven. In about an hour, or when the bird is tender, take it carefully out of the pan, removing all the bacon and onions, and press it between two plates till cold. Cut the Duckling into pieces the shape and size of fillets, put these in a deep frying-pan with plenty of rich gravy, and warm them up again. Arrange the fillets in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with a border of potatoes, and serve. Duck’s Eggs.—For most culinary purposes these eggs may be used indiscriminately with other poultry eggs. The whites are less opaque, and the yolks somewhat more oily, but in other respects they are indistinguishable when blended with other ingredients and flavourings. Some persons are particularly fond of Duck’s Eggs plain boiled. Prepared as follows they are most delicious : Duck’s-Egg Salad.—Boil four Duck’s Eggs hard, leave them till cold, then peel and cut them lengthwise into halves. Scrape the skin off four anchovies, split them into halves, and remove the bones; put a fillet of anchovy on each half of egg, wrap them in lettuce-leaves, securing them with small pointed pieces of wood, and put them on a dish. Prepare a plain salad dressing with oil and tarragon vinegar, allowing the vinegar to predominate; season with pepper and salt. Serve the eggs, with the dressing in a sauceboat. Duck’s Giblets.—These are considered very tasty in a soup or stewed. With the exception of the liver, they are not often used for any other purpose, unless it be to flavour broth for a sauce, and then any other giblets answer quite as well. Ducks—continued. Duck’s-Giblet Soup.—(1) Scald and clean three or four lots of Duck’s Giblets, cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan, add 3qts. of water-, ljlb. of gravy-beef, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the rind of half a lemon, and simmer till the gizzards are soft. Strain the broth, add some slices of onion fried brown in butter, mix in sufficient flour to thicken the soup, and stir over the fire a few minutes till it boils. Strain, skim, and pour the soup into a tureen, put back the piece of lemon-peel, add 2 teaspoonfuls of ketchup and 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and serve with toasted bread out into dice. (2) Thoroughly clean 21b. or 31b. of Duck’s Giblets; peel and slice a large onion, put it in a saucepan with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, toss it over the fire until browned, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour; put in the giblets, fry them for a few minutes, pour in 2qts. or 3qts. of clear stock, and stir until boiling. Add one carrot, a piece of chopped celery-root, and a bunch of sweet herbs, including a few sprigs of parsley. Stew gently until the giblets are tender, then strain the liquor into another saucepan. Clean and blanch two Ducks, put them into the soup with J pint of white wine, and let them boil slowly at the edge of the fire. Peel and chop two carrots, two onions, and a root of celery, put them in a frying-pan with 2oz. of chopped raw ham and loz. of butter, and fry brown, afterwards mixing them in the soup. When tender, drain the Ducks, cut off the flesh neatly from the bones, trim it to well-shaped pieces, and put them into a soup-tureen. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 3 table-spoonfuls of cold broth, and stir them quickly in the soup without letting it boil again. Pour the soup over the pieces of Duck in the soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Boiled rice may be added to the soup if liked. Stewed Duck’s Giblets.—Well wash the giblets, cut up the gizzards, disjoint the head, neck, and pinions, and put them over the fire in a stewpan, together with a small onion, a couple of cloves, one dozen peppercorns, a small bunch of savoury herbs, 1 teaspoonful of ketchup, 2oz. of butter, and ^ pint of broth. Let them stew gently till the giblets are tender, and then lay them on a hot dish. Strain the gravy, put it back in the stewpan, thicken with a little butter rolled in cornflour, and stir in 1 wineglassful of white wine. Pour the gravy over the giblets, and serve hot. Duck’s Livers.—These, especially when the bird was fully fattened before killing, are a very good substitute for the famous goose’s foies gras of Strasburg. But whether fat or not, Duck’s Livers are always so tasty that artistic cooks delight in making them up into a variety of luxuries, the following receipts being about the best: Duck’s Livers au Gratin.—Get two or three firm and white Duck’s Livers, slice them lengthwise, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and spice over them. Butter the bottom of a gratin-dish, sprinkle a pinch of chopped shallots and 2 or 3 dessert-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms in it, and arrange on this layer the slices of livers and a few slices of lemon, without the peel or pips; chop some parsley with a clove of garlic, mix with it some breadcrumbs, and sprinkle this over the livers ; mask with clarified butter, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, basting occasionally with their own gravy. Take out the dish when the livers are done, and drain off the fat; then melt a little glaze, squeeze the juice of one lemon into it, pour it over the livers, put the gratin-dish on another dish, and serve. Terrine of Duck's Fat Livers.—This very elaborate dish is described by Dubois. Eemove the gall from some Duck’s fat livers, and cut away all parts surrounding, as they are generally very bitter. Cut each liver into three pieces ; pare them, put them in a basin with salt sprinkled over, and i wineglassful of Madeira. A sprinkle of mixed spices should also be added. Carefully peel lib. of truffles, cutting the large ones into quarters and the smaller ones into halves ; add a little salt and spices to season, and mix them up with the livers. Chop small -|lb. of bacon, put it into a mortar with the liver mixture, pound this well, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Put ^lb. of lean veal or pork and 5oz. of uncooked ham, both chopped fine, into a mortar ; pound this536 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes,. Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ducks—con tinned. well, add it to the liver mixture, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped, cooked fine herbs; add spice and salt to season, place the mixture in a basin, and add two more well- chopped raw truffles and the Madeira in which the livers were marinaded. Cover the bottom and sides of a terrine with a layer of the mince, putting it a little thicker at the bottom than on the sides ; put the livers and truffles in layers in the centre, with a little of the mince between the layers, make it of a dome shape, and cover over with slices of fat bacon. Put the terrine into a deep baking-dish, cover it over with paper, and set in a moderate oven to bake, basting it frequently with the fat on the baking-dish. When it has baked for two Fig. 677. Terrine of Duck’s Fat Livers. hours, place the cover over, put a little water into the liquor in the baking-dish, and leave it for an-hour-and-a-half longer. Take it out, and let it cool a little ; then put a piece of wood, cut in shape, on the top, and let it get quite cold, with a weight on it. Let it remain for a day, then dip the terrine into warm water, and turn the mixture out. Remove the rough parts, cut it up into slices, and each slice again into long square shapes. Wipe the terrine well with a cloth, place it on a dish, arrange the slices in circles one above the other in the shape of a pyramid, and fill the hollow in the centre with chopped aspic jelly. Decorate the base of the pyramid with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. See Pig. 677. DUKE’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. DULSE.—A seaweed of a reddish-brown colour, which in some parts of Scotland and Ireland is used as a savoury food by those natives living along the shores. It exists in many varieties, which are generally termed “ Dillisk,” the commoner kind (Sarcophyllis edulis) being dried for chewing. In Ireland, especially along the West Coast, it is eaten as a relish with potatoes. Along the shores of the Mediterranean it is held in high esteem for ragouts, and Soyer immortalised it by making it one of the ingre- dients of his famous St. Patrick’s soup. Fig. 678. Pepper Dulse. Pepper Dulse (Laurencia pinnatijida) (see Fig. 678) is a very aromatic variety, answering the purpose of a spice. DUMPLINGS.—In culinary parlance this term may be considered to be strictly British and a diminutive of dump—a thick, ill-shapen piece. The Germans, under the name of Klosse, surpass our efforts in the variety of their manufacture. Dumplings are famous amongst country people for their satisfying qualities, and are regarded as an important part of the farmhouse cuisine. The following receipts can be enlarged upon by those who desire to produce fine delicacies upon the principle of the Dumpling. Other receipts will be found under their various headings. Dumplings for Broth.—Sift 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of flour, add 1 pinch of salt, and mix to a smooth soft dough with water. Drop small quantities of this with a spoon into the broth, where they should float, and put on the lid. When they are three- parts done, put the saucepan in the oven, first removing the lid, and brown the tops of the Dumplings, basting them once with the liquor. Dumplings for Stew.—Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt in 1 teacupful of milk, and mix in 1 pint of flour, adding as much more milk as will be required to make the dough soft enough to be easily handled. Divide the dough into small pieces, round them with the hands, and drop them into the boiling stew. The Dumplings will require ten minutes’ cook- ing. The dough may be made quite soft, and dropped from a spoon into the stew. German Dumplings.—(1) Remove the crust from two or three small rolls, and cut the crumb into small pieces; put these into a basin, pour over boiling milk, and let them soak. Press them to drain off the milk, put them in a saucepan, and beat over the fire with a spoon till hot; then move to the side, and season with salt and pepper. Cut Jib. of bacon into small pieces, and fry them with some of the crusts of the bread cut into small pieces. Mix the fried crusts and bacon with the soaked bread, add 5oz. of butter in small lumps and sufficient beaten egg to bind the mixture without making it too soft, then divide it into small equal-sized masses, and roll them evenly round, flouring the hands freely for the purpose. Plunge the Dumplings into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes, keeping the lid on the saucepan. When cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour over brown clarified butter, and serve. See Fig. 679. (2) Rub loz. of butter in Jib. of flour, add a little salt, three or four beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to obtain a smooth, firm paste; cut some crumb of stale bread into small squares, fry brown in butter, and then mix them with the paste. Take the paste up with a spoon in lumps the size of a hen’s egg, drop them on a floured board, and roll them into balls; plunge these into a saucepan of boiling water, put on the lid, and boil for eight or nine minutes ; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and leave them for ten minutes. Drain on a cloth, put them on a hot dish, pour over brown clarified butter, and serve. (3) Chop 6oz. each of cold meat and beef-suet, together with nine or ten leaves of parsley and a medium-sized onion ; mix with these lib. of flour, a small quantity of mixed herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Make this into a stiff dough with four beaten eggs and milk. Divide the dough into Dumplings, plunge these into boiling’ stock, and boil hard for an-hour-and-a-half. Serve hot, with brown gravy poured over them.537 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Dumplings —continued. (4) Peel and chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with three slices of finely-chopped fat bacon, and fry over a gentle fire. When the onion is soft, take the pan from the fire, and mix in 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of flour, powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir sufficient beaten egg into the mixture to bind it, then turn it on to a dish, and leave until cold. Divide and shape the mixture into small balls, plunge those into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes. Fry the required quantity of slices of bacon, and poach as many eggs as slices. When the Dumplings are cooked, drain them, arrange in a group on a hot dish, garnish with the eggs and bacon, and serve. (5) Mix 2oz. of butter with jib. of grated breadcrumb, and season with salt and a good supply of thyme ; then mix in the yolks of three eggs beaten up with 1 teacupful of cream, and sufficient flour to make it consistent. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the above. Thickly butter a baking-dish, put in the mixture in small rocky lumps, and place in a moderate oven to bake until delicately browned. When cooked, arrange the Dumplings on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Hal’d Dumpling's.—Mix a small quantity of salt with 41b. of flour, and make it into a paste with cold water, keeping it rather firm. Divide the paste into small portions, roll into balls, plunge these into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Do not lift the lid of the saucepan till the Dumplings are done. Take them out of the saucepan, put them on a hot dish, pull them apart in the centre, and serve with preserves, butter and sugar, or gravy. Indian Dumplings.—Skin and finely chop jib. of beef-suet, dredge it well with flour, add 1 saltspoonful of salt and lj pints of corn-meal, and mix all well; then add sufficient milk to form a stiff dough, knead well, and divide into equal portions. Form these on a well-floured paste-board into balls not larger than an orange, beat them with a rolling-pin to make them light, and then tie them up loosely in small cloths dipped into boiling water, wrung dry, and well floured. Plunge them into boiling water, keep boiling incessantly for two hours, take them out, and dip for an instant into cold water before untying the cloths. Serve them hot, with boiled meat, treacle, or butter and sugar. Norfolk Dumplings.—Divide about lib. of light bread-dough into small pieces, mould these with the hands into balls, drop them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil quickly for a-quarter-of-an-hour without taking the lid off the pan. Take them out, drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve hot, with wine sauce, sweetened butter sauce, or butter. Oxford Dumplings.—Grate sufficient crumb of stale bread to fill a breakfast-cup, put it in a basin, and mix with it jib. of well-washed and dried currants, jib. of finely-chopped beef- suet, 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and 4 teaspoonful of allspice. Beat two eggs with i pint of milk, add 1 pinch of salt, and stir them in with the other ingredients. When thoroughly incorporated, divide the mixture into several equal-sized portions, roll them into Dumplings, and fry in plenty of butter in a deep frying-pan. When browned, drain, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. Suffolk Dumplings.-—Prepare lib. or so of light bread-dough with yeast, and milk instead of water, and add a small quantity of salt. Cover the dough with a cloth, and stand it in front of the fire for an hour to rise ; then shape it into balls or Dumplings, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Stick a clean fork into one of them: if it comes out clear, they are done. Then drain, put them on a hot dish, tear them asunder with two forks, and serve with meat, gravy, or sugar and butter. As these Dumplings will be heavy if not served directly they are cooked, they should be put on to boil only just twenty minutes before they are wanted. Vienna Dumplings.—Cut four or five slices of bread, remove the crusts, and cut the crumb into small squares; fry these till browned in boiling fat or butter; then drain, put them in a stewpan with j pint of boiling milk, put on the lid, and boil slowly by the side of the fire. When the milk For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Dumplings—continued. has soaked well into the bread, add 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of raw ham cut in small pieces, dredge in a small quantity of flour, season with salt and pepper, and pour in two or three well-beaten eggs. Stir the mixture by the side of the fire till thick, turn it on to a plate, and leave till cool. Divide the mixture into small pieces, shape them round, and plunge them into boiling salted water; move the pan to the side of the fire, and keep the water simmering for ten minutes. Put 6oz. of butter into a stewpan and melt it, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and fry them for a few minutes. Drain the Dumplings, put them in with the butter and crumbs, toss them about for a few minutes over the fire, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. DUMFODE.—Probably a corruption of the Persian word dcim-puJcht, which signifies slowly cooked or stewed. See Ducks and G-eese. DUN-BIRDS.—These birds are so-called from the colour of their backs, which are of a dusky dun. They are a species of wild duck, allied to the Poachard, and although not very often seen on British tables, they are sometimes found in the kitchen, or perhaps substituted for the red-headed, or some other kind of duck or widgeon. Dun-birds are best roasted as follows: Prepare and truss the birds, cover them with sheets of oiled or buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire; remove the paper a few minutes before they are taken up, so as to brown them lightly. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour rich brown gravy round them, garnish with quarters or slices of lemon, and serve. DUNDEE CAKE.—See Cakes. DURAND GARNISH.—See Garnishes. DURHAM PUDDING.—See Puddings. DURIAN. — Although this fruit has not found its way into British markets in any very large quantities— due in a measure to the difficulties attending its pre- servation — it is nevertheless quite familiar to those Europeans who have travelled in tropical regions, in Malayan districts, or along the Bay of Bengal. It is an oval or globular fruit, larger than a cocoa-nut, attaining some 8in. or lOin. in length, with a hard prickly shell outside, and containing inside a soft creamy pulp and Fig. 680. Dorian (Dorio zibethinus). seeds (see Fig. 680). The plant which bears it is known as Durio zibethinus. The pulp is considered to be by many the most delicious fruit in the world, but the smell of it is most offensive, resembling, according to some experiences, that of rotting onions. The seeds are roasted and eaten like chestnuts. When unripe, the fruit may be salted and added to pickles; but the strong smell is against its use as a pickle in civilised countries. DUTCH CHEESE.—See Cheeses. Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. umiv t rsi r y L i 6 R A R YFor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, sec under their special heads. DUTCH OVENS.—Tin screens of various shapes, such as round or angular, used for cooking small articles before a fire, or open range. See also American Ovens. DUTCH SAUCE (a la HoLLANDAiSE).^See Sauces. D’UXELEES.—This term is now more commonly written Duxelles, and it is generally supposed to have some reference to mushrooms. Kettner assures us that the combination of mushrooms, parsley, and shallots in Duxelles sauce was due to La Yarenne, chef to the Marquis d’Uxelles in 1650, or thereabouts, and thus in honour to the employer the sauce was given this name by his cook. This unfair arrangement evidently did not meet the approval of Beauvilliers, for he wrote the word Ducelle, and Viard improved upon that by making it Durcelle. Modern gourmets complain that when, as is usual, an equal quantity of parsley and shallots are used with the mushrooms, the flavour of the' mushrooms is overburdened, and the finesse of the combination destroyed. See Fine Herbs and Sauces. DYSPEPSIA BREAD.—See Bread. EAHS (Fr. Oreilles; Ger. Ohren).—To all culinary intents and purposes the Bars of any animal would appear to offer the very least temptation. As a matter of fact they are neither digestible nor nutritious, consisting almost exclusively of gristle, covered with skin and small quantities of fat. In spite of this, the artistic cook finds a mode of softening and dressing them so that they become quite a dainty dish to those who prefer flavour to nutrition. Even in that case it is not the Ears so much as the sauce and garnish that are the attraction. Numerous receipts for their preparation are given under their special headings, such as Calf’s Ears, Pig’s Ears, &c. EAST-XNDXAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. EASTER EGGS.—These are described as painted or coloured Eggs, used as presents at Easter; hence a variety of imitation Eggs in sugar or other material have been manufactured for various purposes as being appro- priate presents at this auspicious season. “ Gebeline informs us,” says Brand, “ that this custom of giving Eggs at Easter is to be traced up to the theology and philosophy of the Egyptians, Persians, Gauls, Greeks, Romans, &c., among all of whom an Egg was an emblem of the universe, the work of the Supreme Divinity. Eggs were held by the Egyptians as a sacred emblem of the renovation of mankind after the deluge.” A writer in the Gentleman’s Magazine for July, 1783, supposes the Egg at Easter to be an emblem of the rising up out of the grave, in the same manner as the chick, entombed as it were in the Egg, is in due time brought to life. Le Brun, in his “Voyages,” tells us that the Persians, on the 20th of March, 1704, kept the Festival of the Solar New Year, which, he says, lasted several days, when they mutually presented each other with, among other things, coloured Eggs—yellow, sometimes sky-blue, and sometimes red. To colour Easter Eggs red, put them when well washed into a saucepan of water with a little cochineal, carmine, or logwood, and boil for ten minutes. When done, leave them in the coloured fluid for five minutes longer; then take them out, wipe dry, and rub them over with an oiled cloth. Other colours may be used, such as spinach for green, saffron for yellow, or by tying the eggs up in outside skins of onions a very pretty maize may be attained. A very pretty disli of Eggs prepared specially for Easter is given hereunder: Pour 1 pint of cold water over loz. of gelatine, and let it steep for four hours; add to it lib. of sugar and 3 pints of boiling milk, and stir over the fire till sugar and gelatine are quite dissolved; then strain it, and divide into four parts. Stir into one part 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet vanilla- Easter Eggs—continued. flavoured chocolate, into another the beaten yolks of two Eggs, into the third a little prepared cochineal or very red fruit syrup, and leave the fourth white. Flavour the white with rose-water, the red with essence of almonds, the brown with vanilla, and the yellow with essence of lemon. Put the yellow portion over the fire and let it heat long enough to cook the Eggs, stirring it constantly. Have ready a dozen Egg-shells, emptied through a very small hole made at one end of the shell, and rinsed well in cold water, using several waters, but do not drain or dry them, as the insides must be wet when they are filled. Fill three shells with each of the mixtures, stand them upright as they are filled in a pan of flour or finely-powdered salt, and let them remain all night. Next day three-parts fill a glass dish with white-wine jelly cut or broken in pieces, and on this arrange the Eggs, first peeling off the shells. Scatter candied orange- and citron-peel cut in thin shreds over and amongst them. EAU SUCRE.—See Sugar. EAUX.—See Cordials. ECARXiATE, A LA.—A French culinary term used to signify a mode of cooking by which the red colour, as of meat, is preserved. ECHAUDES.—French for a sort of cakes resembling simnels. They are usually manufactured as follows: Sift half a quartern of flour on to a paste-board, make a bay in the centre, put in 5 table-spoonful of salt dissolved in a small quantity ^f water, -Jib. of butter, and ten eggs. Work the eggs and butter together, and when they are well mixed, work in the flour, using the hands for the purpose. If the paste is too firm more eggs can be used. Dredge flour over a cloth, lay the paste in it, and keep it in a cool place for twelve hours. Cirt the paste into small pieces, dredge over with flour, put them into a saucepan of very hot, but not boiling, water, and shake them about. When they rise to the top and are firm, take them out of the saucepan with a skimmer, throw them into cold water, and leave for two hours; then put them on a wire sieve to drain for about three hours, lay them on a baking-tin, and bake for twenty minutes. ECLAIRS.—French pastrycooks have been very happy in the names they have given to some of their productions. “ Flashes of lightning ” would give one to understand that cakes named thus would be keenly delicious and exceedingly transient. From the following receipts it will lie seen that Eclairs are made of such light materials as to be of very small consideration when masticated and swallowed. Cream for Eclairs.— (1) Bub smooth 2 table-spoonfuls of corn- flour with a little milk, and add to it whilst stirring 1 pint of boiling milk. Whisk three eggs, add to them 6oz. of sugar and the boiling milk, pour all into a double boiler, and cook for five minutes ; then add 1 teaspoonful of butter and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Let it get cool, and flavour with almond, lemon, or vanilla. (2) Put 1 pint of cold milk into a saucepan, and place it on the stove. Mix 2oz. of powdered sugar with loz. of wheat- flour and loz. of cornflour, break in one egg and four or five yolks, and beat well with a whisk for two minutes. When the milk is boiling, add it to the flour mixture, stir for one minute, put it into another saucepan, place it on the stove, and beat well until boiling ; then remove from the fire, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or any other flavouring that may be desired. Mix thoroughly again for one minute, pour it into a bowl, and let it get cool before using. (3) Beat the yolks of four eggs with 3oz. of sugar and 2 table- spoonfuls of flour; then stir in 1 pint of milk, turn the mix- ture into a saucepan, and stiv it over the fire with a wooden spoon until rather thick; but take it off before it boils, or the eggs will curdle. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of chocolate in J teacupful of boiling milk, stir it into the cream mixture, and let it get cold. Eclairs.—(1) Coffee or Chocolate.—Put 2 gills of milk into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, set it on the fire, and stir with the spatula; when boiling, add Jib. of well-sifted flour 538 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY.THE encyclopedia of practical cookery. 539 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eclairs—continued. and stir briskly for two minutes. Stand the pan on a table> break in one egg, mix sharply for two minutes, break in a second egg-, mix sharply again, and repeat with a third and fourth egg. Put a small tube into a pastry-bag, press out upon a baking-sheet fifteen Eclairs, each one 3in. long, and bake these in a hot oven for twenty minutes; then remove them and let them cool. Open each Eclair on one side with a pair of scissors, and with a spoon fill the interiors with cream (No. 1 or 2). Take the Eclairs one by one, with the hand dip them into icing- (Nos. 1, 2, or 3), lay them on a strainer, let them cool for five minutes, dress them on a dish with a folded napkin (see Fig. 681), and serve. (2) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 5 pint of water, and set it over the fire until boiling; then throw in Jib. of flour and 1 level teaspoonful of moist sugar, and stir it vigorously with a wooden spoon. When thoroughly mixed, take the saucepan off the fire, and stir for two or three minirtes longer; leave the paste for five minutes, then stir in four eggs one at a time. Turn the paste out of the saucepan on to a dish, and leave it for lialf-an-hour. Butter a baking-tin; stir the paste again, then put it into a biscuit-forcer and squeeze it out in small cakes at a little distance apart on the tin, and put this in a brisk oven to bake. When the Eclairs are done, take them off the tin and lay them on a dish until cold. Fill them with cream (No. 3), mask with icing (No. 4), and serve cold. (3) Cocoa-nut.—Prepare a couple of dozen very light puffs, bake them, and roll in a mixture of grated cocoa-nut and sifted sugar, giving them a good coating-. Set them in a hot closet to dry, and they are ready for use. Desiccated cocoa-nut may be used if preferred, but if used must be mixed up with syrup. Ellie’s Eclairs.—Make a sponge cake of lib. of eggs weighed in their shells, lib. of sugar, and 9oz. of flour ; flavour with the grated rind and strained juice of lemon, and bake in six tins. When baked it should not be quite lin. thick. Put lqt. of fresh milk over the fire, boil it, pour it gradually over the yolks of four eggs well beaten with 4oz. of powdered white sugar, mix well, return to the saucepan, set it over the fire again, and stir in lioz. of cornflour blended with a little cold milk ; con- tinue stirring till thick, then remove it from the fire, and stir into it while hot a flavouring of vanilla. Put a layer of this custard over three of the sponge cakes, and cover with the others. Make an icing of 6oz. of powdered white sugar, 3 table- spoonfuls of grated chocolate, 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh cream, and about Joz. of butter; put this icing over the fire, let it simmer for a few minutes, and then spread it over the Eclairs. Sprinkle them over while hot with white sugar. Icing- fox’ Eclairs.—(1) Put into a saucepan ljlb. of granulated sugar and 1 gill of cold water, set it on the stove, and with a spatula mix well until the sugar is thoroughly melted; when boiling, remove from the stove, pour it gradually on a marble slab, spread it about 3ft. square, and let it cool for ten minutes. Put loz. of coffee into a saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful of cold water, boil till reduced to about 2 table-spoon- fuls, strain through a cloth, and let it cool. With a spatula begin working the sugar that is on the slab as rapidly as possible in every direction until it begins to whiten ; add the coffee essence, mixing it thoroughly until it becomes hard; remove the spatula, detach the preparation quickly from the slab with a knife, put it into a vessel, cover with a damp cloth, and let it rest for half-an-hour. Place half of it in a saucepan on the hot stove, and with the spatula mix thoroughly and slowly until it is lukewarm, meanwhile adding 1 teaspoonful of E clair s—continued. cold water. The rest of the preparation, if laid aside in a cool place and properly taken care of, will keep good for a fortnight, but this quantity is best to be made up at one time. (2) The same as No. 1 ; but the coffee essence may be omitted from the icing-, and 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of vanilla used instead. (3) Melt 2oz. of chocolate in small pieces on a plate, set it in a moderate oven, and substitute it for the essence of vanilla of No. 2. (4) Put loz. of chocolate into a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, and stir over the fire until melted ; then add 2oz. of sugar, and continue stirring the mixture until thick enough to spread over the cakes. (5) To J pint of made coffee add sufficient icing sugar to make it thick; warm up on the hot stove, and use as required. ECONOMY IN THE KITCHEN. — This is a subject that requires very little treatment, because it follows as a matter of course that a good cook is economical. The entire work of this Encyclopaedia is inclined towards Economy; that is to say, the instructions given are of such a simple character that no more expense is incurred in producing even the most elaborate dishes than is absolutely necessary for the elaboration of that dish. A scientific and artistic cook allows no waste— every scrap is used up so long as it has any nutritive or culinary value left in it, and not until then is even a bone allowed to enrich the pig-tub. It is a very mistaken notion that artistic cookery is extravagant; for as every artistic cook knows, some of the very tastiest dishes are made from what in some kitchens would be wasted. Urbain Dubois, whose ex- perience entitles him to make the remark, has said that lie believes there is more actual waste in a small private kitchen than in all the kitchens of a royal palace. That many dishes given in this Encyclopedia are costly cannot be gainsaid; but the bulk of them are not, and a large majority of the receipts given are not only in- expensive, but based upon the very essence of Economy. The object of this work throughout is to teach good cooking, cooking founded upon the best principles of science; some of the receipts are suitable for a royal table, some for noblemen, some for the middle classes, and many for the poor; but whether these receipts cost much or little iu their preparation, they are economical—that is to say, the cost of a dish may be very great and yet its mode of preparation economical; and, on the contrary, a dish may be ever so cheap in its actual cost and yet very wasteful in proportion to its value. Again, stinginess in the kitchen is not Economy, for it is an old saying that when a cook cannot get lard he will use butter. A clever manager will so arrange that there shall be plenty of everything for the cook to use, and yet allow no waste, or even liberal extravagance. The cook’s delight should be to make the best return for the smallest outlay consistent with the work done, and the employer should see that the wages of the cook do not necessitate a back-door trade with the scavenger. See also Accounts. ECKEVISSES.—Fr. for Crayfish. EDDOES.—The tubers of a species of Taro (Colocasia escidenta) held in great favour as a vegetable in tropical countries where they are grown (see Eig. 682). There are some other varieties of Eddoes which are also used as food: G. antiquorum is cultivated in Egypt and India for the sake of its leaves, which, although unpalatable before cooking, may after boiling be eaten as spinach. They are sometimes prepared as follows: Boil some Eddoes until they will leave tlieir skins readily. Put into a stewpan some fillets of tckad (a kind of salted herring) and enough butter, when melted, to cover the bottom of the pan lin. deep. Season with black pepper and a sus- picion of powdered mace, and toss this over the fire until the fish is cooked. Pile the tchad in the centre of a flat540 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes', Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eddoes—continued. dish, and garnish round with the Eddoes. Some persons like this served with a thick Spanish or German sauce either poured over or served separately in a sauceboat. Or as a vegetable, boil the Eddoes, slip them out of their skins, put them on a hot dish, pour over some butter sauce and a moderate quantity of lime-juice, and serve while hot. EDINBURGH BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. EELS (Fr. Anguilles; Gcr. Aale).—There is no other kind of fish in the world that has what might be styled such a universal existence as the Eel. It is found in all countries and climates, and seems to be equally at home Fig. 683. Snig Eel. m the sea, pond, and river. Holland is very famous for its Eels, and exports large quantities to London. There are several kinds, the more important being the snig (see Fig. 683), the grig, the sharp-nosed (see Fig. 684), and the broad-nosed (see Fig. 685), all of which closely resemble each other as far as their bodies are concerned, some being larger and more silvery than others. Those caught in the Thames are the most silvery, and are considered by epicures to be of the sweetest flavour. Eels may be classified for culinary purposes as river (silver) and sea (conger) Eels, all belonging to the Anguilla tribe; the latter (see Fig. 686) sometimes growing to an enor- mous size, specimens having been caught in the English Channel more than 10ft. long, and some 7in. or Sin. in Eels—continued. diameter. The flesh is exceedingly coarse and oily, but, in spite of that, by submitting it to artistic treatment, some very savoury dishes can be made from it. Before submitting the flesh of the Eel to the various modes of cooking prescribed for it, there are some few | hints concerning killing, skinning, cleaning, and boning that require the cook’s attention. In the first place, it may be emphatically stated that the habit of skinning Eels before they are dead is an absolute piece of bar- barism and quite unnecessary, answering no good purpose whatever. In every case the Eel should be first killed by piercing the backbone where the neck joins the head witli a sharp-pointed skewer; or it may be killed by knocking its head hard on a wooden block or stone. The next step is to skin it, which is generally accom- plished by putting a cloth over the head and holding it in one hand whilst with the other you cut round the neck, and turn the skin down for an inch or so. With the head in one hand and the skin in the other, by pulling steadily the skin strips off. Another plan is to hold the Eel, after killing, over some hot embers until it is partly grilled, and the skin will then strip off easily, after making an incision round the neck. In a very old-fashioned cookery book it is recommended that the Eels, whilst yet alive, should be put into hot ashes, and as they raise their heads and squirm out of | the burning heat, they should be seized by the cook and the skin stripped off with a cloth. It is needless to say that such a barbarous practice cannot be too severely condemned. Chop off the head and tail of the skinned Eel, open the throat with the point of a knife, and make an incision at the navel; then with the assistance of a large larding- needle push the gut from the small hole cut in the navel through the opening at the throat. Wash it and dry it before cooking. Conger Eels, if large or oily, are better j held over a charcoal fire for a few minutes; or, if small, they may lie blanched as follows: Cut them into pieces, tie in rings, put them into a saucepan of cold water, add a good pinch of salt, a little vinegar, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, a quarter of a bunch of parsley-roots, one onion, and one carrot, and place them on a slow fire; take themTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 541 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. off before they boil, turn them into an earthenware jar with the liquor they were boiled in, and they can then be used for frying' or boiling', as desired. Eels are boned by splitting them down the back after skinning, and then, whilst holding the fish firmly with the left hand, and pressing it on to the table, the knife is made to pass down either side of the backbone, and the flesh will soon allow the backbone to be ^lemoved. All fins, &c., should be cut off close with a pair of fish- scissors. Silver Eels.—The following receipts will be found sufficiently comprehensive: Baked Eels.—Clean two or three Eels, and rinse them to wash off the blood; roll them round and stuff with . suitable forcemeat, fasten with skewers, put them in a dish with a little court bouillon, and bake till brown; then g'laze them. Mix 1 table-spoonful of butter and a little anchovy sauce with Italian sauce, and pour this on a dish; arrange the Eels on it, and serve. Boiled Eels.—Clean some small Eels, but do not skin them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, a little salt, and a good bunch of parsley, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes ; then take out the parsley and chop it. Lay the Eels on a hot dish, put the chopped parsley into the liquor, and pour it over the Eels. Serve with parsley and butter sauce in a tureen. Boiled Eel witli Dutch or Butter Sauce.—Choose an Eel which, when cleaned, will weigh about 21b., wash it well, tie it up with string', and blanch in boiling water for a few minutes. Take it out, put it into a gallon saucepan, pour over sufficient water to cover it, add two sliced onions, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, ■2 pint of vinegar, ^oz. of pepper, and loz. of salt. Set the saucepan on the side of the fire after it has once boiled, and simmer for thirty minutes. Take out the fish, drain it, put it on a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with Dutch or butter sauce. Boiled Eel with Montpellier Butter.-Clean an Eel, removing the head and tail parts, bone it, and sprinkle over with a little salt and pepper. In the meantime, prepare a fish forcemeat or galantine forcemeat, made with pike-flesh, fat bacon, and panada. Pass the forcemeat through a fine sieve, and add a mixture of pistachio-kernels, goose’s fat livers Eels—continued. (Strasburg livers), and truffles. Fill the inside of the fish with this, sew up the cut made in taking out the bone, put it in a cloth, fix it in position with a skewer, and boil for two hours in court bouillon. Take it out, drain, remove the cloth, score it, wrap in a cloth again, coil it round a dome-shaped mould, and put it back in the liquor in which it was boiled. When it is quite cool, remove the cloth and thread, and put it on a decorated cake of spinach (pain vert) with a dome-shaped elevation in the centre, round which the Eel will appear to be coiled. Have the head boiled by itself, fix it with an attelette in its original position, mask the Eel with Montpellier butter, and ornament it with warmed butter worked through a cornet. Garnish the base with jelly and hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, put some croutons of aspic jelly round the cake of spinach (see Fig. 687), and serve. A sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce should also be sent to table with the fish. Braised Eel a la Conde.—Skin and clean a large Eel, cut off the end of the tail and head near the gills, wash and wipe it, cover with salt, let it remain for an hour or so, and put it into a bowl of cold water to disgorge. Take it out, drain, make several cuts on each side of it, tie it up, shaping like a ring, put it into a saucepan with a mirepoix, add | pint each of white wine and vinegar, and 2 pints of fish stock or broth. Put a piece of buttered paper on top, cover over with the lid, set the saucepan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise slowly for an-hour-and- a-lialf, basting it frequently. Take out if done, untie it, put it on a dish, and serve with the liquor strained over it. Braised Eel a la Royale.—Skin and clean an Eel, cut it up into 2in. pieces, dust them over with salt, and let them remain for an hour or so. Plunge them into a bowl of cold water for ten minutes, dry them, put them in a well-buttered saucepan, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and over them place slices of lemons and shallots, also a little scraped parsley-root and a few whole white peppers. Set the saucepan on a slow fire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise until the fish is done. Place the pieces of Eel on a dish, add to the saucepan 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, boil for a few minutes, thicken with a white roux, let this reduce slightly, remove the pan from the fire, add a liaison of the yolks of three eggs, boil up once more, strain it into a saucepan containing double its quantity of German sauce, boil up again, pour it round the Eel, and serve. Brochette of Eels.—(1) Skin and clean two or three Eels, cut them up into slices about lin. in thickness, lay them in a dish, dust over with salt, pepper, and a little finely- chopped parsley and sweet herbs, and let them alone for two or three hours. Have ready some truffles parboiled in white wine and cut into slices, put the pieces of Eels on attelettes or skewers, with pieces of truffle between them, brush the whole over with yolk of egg, dip them into sifted breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry for about twenty minutes. When done, put them on a dish, without removing the skewers, and serve. (2) Skin a large Eel, cut it into 2in. pieces, put them in a basin, add a sprinkling of salt, pepper, minced onion, parsley, a little oil and lemon-juice, and let them soak in this for three hours. Skewer them on an iron skewer transversely, alter- nately with a slice of fat bacon and a bay-leaf, fix the skewer by both ends to the spit, put some oil, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice in the dripping-pan, and baste continually with it. When nearly roasted, sprinkle breadcrumbs over the pieces of Eel, and finish cooking. Lay the Eel lengthwise on a dish, remove the skewer carefully so as not to separate the pieces, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. Broiled Eels.—(1) Clean and skin a good-sized Eel, remove the backbone, and cut the Eel into four or five pieces. Dip each piece first into egg and then into breadcrumbs mixed with grated rind of lemon, nutmeg, parsley, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Grease a gridiron, put the pieces of fish, with the skin- side of the fish downwards, on it over a clear fire, and broil them, turning them over when done on one side. Put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley and horseradish set alter- nately, and send to table with anchovy or tartar sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Skin a large Eel, wipe it dry, and coil it up, keeping it in its position with two skewers put crosswise. Place it542 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes? Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. for a few seconds on a gridiron to set the meat. In the meantime, chop two onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter or oil, fry to a light colour, add ^ pint each of vinegar and water, also a little parsley, peppercorns, cloves, bay-leaf, thyme, and salt, and boil for seven or eight minutes ; then put in the Eel. The amount of liquor in the pan should be enough to cover the fish. When it commences to boil, move the pan off the fire to the side where it will boil gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then take it off, and let the Eel remain in it for an hour. Take it out, drain on a sieve, and let it get quite cold. Dip a paste-brush in oil, rub it all over the Eel, dust it over with salt, pepper, and dried parsley, and roll in breadcrumbs. Place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and warm for forty-five minutes. Serve on a dish with mayonnaise or tartar sauce. (3) Clean some Eels, wash them well, hut do not skin them, and cut into pieces about 4in. long. Beat up the yolks of one or two eggs; season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with minced parsley and sage, and a little salt and pepper. Boll the Eels in the beaten egg, and coat them well with the seasoned breadcrumbs. Bub a gridiron over with a little fat, lay the pieces of Eel on it, and place it over a clear fire, turning the Eels occasionally until cooked and browned ; then put them on a hot dish, over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (4) Skin and clean a couple of medium-sized Eels, cut off their heads and the very thin part of the tail, score or crimp them across at equal distances all along their whole length, powder the cuts well with chopped parsley and chives, and fasten the two fish into rings. Put into a stewpan a few slices of carrots and onions, a sprig or two of parsley, a bay- leaf, and a good-sized lump of butter. When these vege- tables have cooked for a short time, add a little salt, a few peppercorns, and a small quantity of white wine and water. When the liquor is cooked enough, strain it, return it to the stewpan, put in the Eels, and boil them till half done; then take them out, and let them cool. When they are quite cold, wet them with a little tartar sauce, roll them in sifted bread- crumbs, brush over with beaten egg, and again roll them in breadcrumbs. Broil them on a hot gridiron over not too hot a fire. Serve on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. (5) Skin, clean, and well wash an Eel, cut it up into rather large pieces, put these into a saucepan with a little butter, and brown them. Place the pieces in a dish, dredge them over with a seasoning of grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, cover them with finely-chopped shallots, onions, mushrooms, and sweet herbs, and pour over a little olive oil to moisten. Let them remain in this for three or four hours; then roll them well in breadcrumbs, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them for about twenty minutes or so. When done, put the pieces on a dish, and pour over rich piquant sauce; or serve with anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Skin, clean, and bone an Eel, and cut it into fillets or pieces. Dip these in oiled butter and then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. When done, arrange them in a circle on a dish. Mix a few chopped capsicums in some Spanish sauce, fill a sauceboat with it, and serve with the Eel. (7) Skin and clean an Eel, cut it up into pieces about Gin. long, put them together with the blood taken from the back into a saucepan, add one or two carrots and onions cut in slices, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and salt, two cloves, and sufficient white wine to moisten. Place the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the pieces of fish are done; take them out, drain them, roll them first in fine breadcrumbs, dip them into yolk of egg beaten up with a little warmed butter, then roll them again in the breadcrumbs, put them on a warm gridiron over a clear fire, and broil to a fine colour. When done, put them on a dish, pour over hot tartar sauce, and serve. Collared Eels.—(1) Choose large Eels, clean and bone, but do not skin them. Season the flesh interiorly with a mixture of finely-chopped parsley, sage, and mixed spice. Bind them up tightly with broad tape, put them in a saucepan with a bay-leaf, cover with salted water, and boil for three-quarters- of-an-hour. When cooked, drain the Eels and hang them up to dry in a warm place for several hours. Mix 1 pint of vinegar with the liquor from the fish, also a bunch of thyme Eels—continued. and a few peppercorns, boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then move the liquor away from the fire. When the Eels are quite dry, unbind them, cut into slices, and put them in the liquor ; warm them, turn on to a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Clean two or three large Eels, dry them well, and bone but do not skin them. Mix together finely-powdered mace, allspice, cloves, salt, and pepper. Finely-powdered dried herbs are also an improvement, and parsley, knotted marjoram, savory, and a little sage and thyme, all rubbed very fine, may be mixed with the powdered spice. Lay the Eels out flat on the table and rub the powdered spices over the insides, roll them up tightly, and bind firmly with strong twine or tape. Boil them in salted water, and put them in vinegar to cool. Keep them in the vinegar, and when required for use they may be served either whole or cut into slices. Eels a la Minute.—Skin and clean two or three Eels, chop them up into pieces, put them in a saucepan of salted water, and boil for about fifteen minutes. When done, put them on a dish, pour over boiling maitre-d’hotel sauce with a little lemon-juice in it, and serve. Boiled potatoes, without their skins, may be used for a garnish. Eel a la Suffren.—(1) Skin and clean an Eel, put it into a saucepan, with a few fillets of anchovies and slices of gherkin over it, pour over sufficient rich stock to cover, Fig. 688. Eel a la Suffren. and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the Eel is done. Place it carefully on a dish so as to keep it whole, pour over hot tomato sauce mixed with cayenne, and serve at once. See Fig. 688. (2) Skin and clean an Eel, lard it with fillets of anchovies and gherkins, curl it in a saucepan, pour over fish sauce or stock, and cook it until done, placing hot ashes on the lid. Put it on a dish, and serve as for No. 1. Eels in Aspic Jelly.—Skin the Eels, remove their heads and tails, wash them in salted water, cut them into pieces about 2in. long, and put in a stewpan, with a bay-leaf, a small bunch of parsley and sage, a clove of garlic (or if preferred a shallot), a wineglassful of white wine, half that quantity of vinegar, and a small quantity of water. Season with salt and pepper, put on the lid, and stew the Eels gently at the side of the fire until quite tender; Fig. 689. Eels in Aspic Jelly. when cooked, remove from the fire, and leave the Eels in the stewpan until quite cold, keeping them covered. Put the pieces of Eels round the sides of a mould with their ends towards the centre, fill up between them with liquid aspic jelly, cover them with a layer of the dissolved jelly, and place the mould in a cold place. When the jelly has set, turn it out of the mould on to a dish covered with a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, and serve. Garnish with parsley and chopped aspic. See Fig. 689.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 543 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. Eel Patties.—(1) Wash and clean an Eel, chop it into small pieces, and put them into a basin of vinegar to soak. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add gradually 1 table-spoonful of flour and a little broth without fat. Chop fine the rind of half a lemon, a few capers, and a little parsley, season with salt and pepper to taste, and add to the mixture in the saucepan. Drain the pieces of fish of vinegar, put them into the saucepan with the other ingredients, and stew until done. Line some patty-pans with paste, put two or three pieces of fish in according to size, cover over the patties, and make a hole in the top to let the steam out. Brush a little egg over them, and put in a quick oven to bake ; when done, take them out, and serve hot. (2) Clean an Eel, remove the skin, cut it up into lin. lengths, put the pieces into a saucepan with a little salt, pepper, vinegar, and water, and let them cook slowly on the fire. When they are quite done, take them out, and remove the backbone, slitting each piece lengthwise in halves. Line some patty-pans with paste, bake, put into each a little of the fish and gravy, and serve. Several flavourings may be used to these patties, such as mushroom ketchup in one, essence of anchovy in another, and so on. Eel Pie. — (1) Line a pie-dish with short-crust, fill it with some Eels, skinned, cleaned, and cut into 2in. pieces, sprinkle in some cloves, powdered mace, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, add a few well-washed and dried currants, a piece of butter, and 1 teacupful of sherry; cover with more crust, stick the edges together, make a hole in the top with a knife, bake in a moderate oven, and serve hot. (2) Cut 11b. of cleaned Eels into 3in. pieces, and stew their heads and tails in i- pint of stock. Take out the heads and tails when they are done, and put in the stock a squeeze of lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and 1 pinch of pepper and salt. Arrange the pieces of Eel in a pie-dish, pour in the gravy, cover with either a puff or short-paste, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Skin and clean an Eel, cut it into 2in. pieces, and put these in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mush- rooms, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a small shallot, the juice of one lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and % saltspoonful of pepper. When boiling, move to the side of the fire, and simmer for five minutes. Take out the pieces of Eel, and lay them in a pie-dish, thicken the liquor with flour and butter, and add some hard-boiled eggs cut in halves. Pour the gravy over the Eels, cover over with puff paste, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (4) Pill a large cup (without a handle) or small basin with highly-seasoned broth, put a pie-dish on the top, and with a quick movement reverse their positions, so that the cup will stand in the middle of the dish, and still retain the gravy. This can be ensured by buttering the rim of the cup. Skin some Eels of equal size, clean them, cut them into 3in. pieces, sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll them in flour, and put them in the pie-dish with a sprinkling of button-mushrooms, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, cocks’ combs, forcemeat balls, and dice of veal; add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the juice of one lemon, and i pint of veal broth. Cover with short or puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. (5) Skin and clean an Eel, chop off its head, cut the body into pieces 2in. long, bone, season the inside, and tie them up. Fry 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions in a little butter; when brown, add the pieces of Eel, and fry them for ten minutes, turning about constantly; add 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and fry till the moisture is reduced; add 1 teacupful of strong glaze, and let the pieces of Eel remain in this till cool. Prepare a quenelle forcemeat, using l|lb. of the flesh of pike. Line a hot pie- dish with short-paste, mask the sides and bottom with force- meat, arrange the pieces of Eel, well sprinkled with the fine herbs, in the centre of the dish, cover the top with paste, sticking the edges together, cut leaves out of paste and stick them on the top, brush the pie over with beaten egg, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Put \ pint of brown sauce in a stew- pan with one dozen button-mushrooms and § teacupful of Madeira wine, and reduce over a sharp fire. Make a circular Eels—continued. opening in the top of the pie, pour in the sauce and mush- rooms, and serve hot. (6) Clean the Eels thoroughly, skin them, cut them in pieces about 2in. or 3in. long, season with salt and pepper, and put them in a pie-dish; stick small bits of butter over them, pour in a little water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake. Eels Roasted in Ashes.—Skin and clean two or three Eels, roll them in coils—fix them in this position by tying two skewers together, one on each side—sprinkle salt and pepper over, fasten them up in buttered paper, then roll some plain paper round that, and tie each end with string and in the middle. Make a bed of the hot ashes underneath the fire, lay the Eels in it, cover with more hot ashes, and roast for about three-quarters-of-an-hour ; then take them up, remove the papers, dish them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with parsley-butter in a sauceboat. Some epicures consider this the best way to cook Eels, so as to preserve the flavour in its fulness. Eel Soup.—(1) Skin a large Eel, bone it, and cut it into small pieces ; put these with the bones in a saucepan with £ pint of water, i teacupful of vinegar, one onion cut into four pieces, a bunch of sage, and salt, pepper, and spices to taste. Boil till tender, then take the pieces of Eel carefully out of the liquor with a slice, strain the gravy into a saucepan, leave it until cold, then skim off the fat, and pour in broth to make about 3 pints of soup. Peel and thinly slice a few carrots, turnips, and any other vegetables, put them in the soup with 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas, and boil gently until the vegetables are tender. Any kind of minced herbs may be put in to flavour the soup. Make about l|lb. of fish forcemeat, mould it into small balls or quenelles, and when the soup is nearly cooked put half of them in and boil them, frying the remainder in butter until browned. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, move the soup to the side of the fire, and when it ceases boiling stir in the beaten eggs quickly with a wooden spoon. Continue stirring the soup for five minutes, then put in the fish-balls and the Eels, make them quite hot, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve immediately. (2) Clean 31b. of Eels, put them into a saucepan with two peeled onions, a bunch of lemon thyme, winter savory, and parsley, a piece of mace, and a few peppercorns ; pour in 3qts. of water, put the lid on the pan, and set it over the fire. When the water boils, move it to the side, and boil gently until reduced to half its original quantity. Strain the soup into a soup-tureen, put in a few small croutons of bread browned in butter, or sippets of toast, and serve. (3) Put 31b. of small Eels nicely cleaned into a saucepan, together with a piece of carrot scraped and washed, a crust of bread, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, 1 teaspoonful of whole pepper, three blades of mace, and igall. of water, and let it simmer gently till the fish is boiled to pieces. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, stir in 1 teaspoonful of flour blended smooth in ^ pint of cream, and boil for ten minutes. Cut some slices of toasted bread into dice, put them into the tureen, and pour over the boiling' soup. (4) Remove the skin and the heads of a few small Eels, cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan with some heads and trimmings of other fish, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, two or three cloves, six peppercorns, and a small lump of salt; pour in equal quantities of white wine and water, and stew the fish gently till tender. When cooked, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and put into it a variety of young vegetables, putting those in first that require the longest cooking, and boil them. When tender, thicken the liquor with a small piece of butter kneaded with flour. Peel and blanch a few small pears and apples, cut the apples into halves or quarters, according to their size, put them and the pears into the soup, and cook them. When the fruits and vegetables are done, put the pieces of Eel in the soup, season with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, about 2 table-spoonfuls of freshly-chopped sweet herbs, and 1 wineglassful of vinegar. A few small dumplings may be added to the soup if liked. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Take off the skin from three good-sized Eels, cut them up into lengths, put into a bowl with salt, and let them remain for an hour or so. Take them out, well washTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 544 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels —continued. and drain, put them into a saucepan with as much rich consomme as will be required, add a little blanched chervil and 1 pinch of pepper, and boil for half-an-hour, skimming carefully as required. Put some pieces of toast or fried bread at the bottom of a tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. (6) Skin and clean 31b. of Eels, put them into a saucepan with 2 pints of water, add one onion, a small quantity of mace, a little whole pepper, sweet herbs, and a crust of bread; cover down close, and stew until the flesh separates from the bones; then strain the liquor. Toast six slices of bread a deep brown, cut them into triangular pieces or squares, cut a piece of carrot about 2in. long into four slices lengthwise, put them into a tureen with the toast, pour over the soup, add a little boiling cream thickened with flour, and serve. (7) Brown.—Take about 31b. of Eels after they have been washed and cleaned, cover them with flour, batter, or breadcrumbs, and fry until quite done; then cut each into pieces and remove the bones. Chop a few onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown ; then add sufficient flour to thicken the soup, pour in slowly some stock or water, season with a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, two dozen peppercorns, a slice of lemon, and a little salt. Add the pieces of Eel, and boil until cooked. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. (8) Dutch Style.—Clean an Eel, cut it up into lin. lengths, put these into a bowl, cover over with salt, and let them remain for an hour; then wash off all the salt, and wipe the pieces of fish quite dry on a cloth. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and add 2qts. of mushrooms, two leeks, carrots, and onions, and a head of celery, all cut up small, seasoning with a little mace, garlic, pepper, a bay-leaf, and two cloves. Cook these over a slow fire for a minute or so, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of stock, and simmer gently for an hour. Put the pieces of Eel into a saute-pan, strain over the liquor from the mushrooms, &c., and cook slowly for about twenty minutes, or until they are done. Take them up with a skimmer, and keep them warm in the tureen in which the soup is to be served. Prepare a puree by rubbing through a fine sieve about 21b. of sorrel, stewed in stock with two lettuces and a handful of chervil, put the puree into a mortar, pound it well, and mix with 4oz. of breadcrumbs well soaked in broth or stock ; rub the whole through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add about 1 pint of stock to it, and boil, skimming frequently. Have ready about 3 pints of chicken broth, well seasoned with vegetables and strained into a saucepan ; add to this a liaison of the yolks of ten eggs, mix in the sorrel puree, pour the whole into the tureen containing the pieces of Eel, add a handful of blanched chervil and about a dozen or so glazed small onions, and serve with pieces of toast floating on the top. (9) White. — Put a bunch of sweet herbs into a large saucepan, with a blade of mace, three slices of lemon, ^ tea- spoonful of peppercorns, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, or salt to taste ; pour in 2qts. of water, set the saucepan on the fire, and when the water boils put in the fish, previously cleaned. As soon as the fish are done so that the flesh will easily leave the bones, remove them from the pan and take out the bones. Each Eel in this way will make two separate pieces, which must be kept unbroken. Put a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a saucepan, with a chopped onion, also a little of the fish broth, and cook until the onion is quite tender ; then strain the remainder of the broth, add it also, and stir in 1 gill of milk; next put in the pieces of fish, and place the pan on the side of the fire until the fish are quite hot. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little of the broth, add it to thicken, and then serve piping hot. Eels Stewed in Beer.—Skin and clean two Eels, cut them into pieces 2in. long, throwing away their heads and tails, and steep them for thirty minutes in salted water. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan, and melt it; then put in the pieces of Eels, with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, two or three thin slices of lemon, and J pint of beer; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg or mace, put two or three small bits of butter on the top, and cover the pan closely. Place the pan over the fire till the liquor begins to boil, then move it to the side, and let it simmer slowly for one hour. When cooked, turn the Eels out on to a hot dish, and serve. Eels—continued. Eel-and-Tench. Pie.—Skin, bone, and clean two large Eels, and clean two tench, cutting the Eels in 2in. pieces. Stew the bones and trimmings in water for one hour with three blades of mace, two small onions, two anchovies, a pinch of pepper and salt, and a few sprigs of herbs. Put the Eels, tench, some hard-boiled eggs, and chopped parsley in a pie-dish, strain in as much of the prepared liquor as is required, cover either with short or puff paste, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Fricassee of Eel.—(1) Skin and clean some Eels, and cut off their heads, chop them up into small pieces, put these into a frying-pan with sufficient white wine and water in equal parts to cover them, season with mace, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, sweet herbs, allspice, and salt, according to taste, set the pan on a good fire, and boil until the Eels are quite tender, then put them on a dish. Pound- two anchovies in a mortar and add them to the liquor, with a little butter and yolks of eggs to thicken. Pour this over the fish, and serve. (2) Skin and clean five or six small Eels, cut off their heads, and chop the remainder into pieces about 4in. long. Place them in a saucepan with sufficient white wine and water in equal proportions to cover them, and put in an onion stuck with half-a-dozen cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, twenty oysters from which the beards have been re- moved, a taste of cayenne, chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; set the pan on the fire again, and stew for an hour. Take out the pieces of fish, add 1 pint of cream and loz. of butter, well rolled in flour, to the liquor, and boil. Place the fish on a dish, pour over the gravy through a strainer, and garnish with scraped horseradish. (3) Skin and clean two large Eels, score them lengthwise, and cut each one into five or six pieces. Put them into a basin of cold water, and let them remain for half-an-hour; then put them into a saucepan, with 2oz. of butter, a little finely-chopped parsley, and one onion cut into pieces, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; pour in 1 break- fast-cupful each of white wine and broth, sprinkle over a little ground mace, salt, and pepper, and cook slowly for thirty minutes; add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little finely-chopped parsley and grated nutmeg, simmer gently for five minutes, add the juice of a lemon, toss the saucepan, and turn the contents out on to a dish. Garnish with slices of lemon cut in quarters, and serve. Fricassee of Eels served with Lettuces. — Skin the Eels, cut them into large pieces, wash these in plenty of cold water to clean them thoroughly, put them in a saucepan with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, dredge with flour, and stir over the fire for a few minutes without browning them. In five minutes pour a little stock over the Eels, add a few pieces of sweetbread, mushrooms, morels, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and salt and pepper. Let the fricassee simmer by the side of the fire till cooked. Thoroughly wash some large lettuces, and boil them in salted water; when tender, drain them, put them in the saucepan with the Eels, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, mix the beaten yolks of two or three eggs with the liquor, stir it by the side of the fire till thick, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and sprinkle over black pepper. Turn the fricassee out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Fried Eels.—(1) Skin and clean a large Eel, cut it up into thick slices, put these into a basin with vinegar, the peel from two or three lemons, and a little each of salt and pepper, and let them soak for a day or so. Take them out, drain, dip them into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. When done, drain them, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of reduced stock, mixed with a little lemon-juice and pounded boned anchovy. (2) Clean a few moderate-sized Eels and cut them up into pieces about 3in. in length; roll these in flour, then in egg, and lastly in breadcrumbs ; put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry until quite done. Take them out, put them on a dish with a napkin spread over it, and serve. A little shrimp sauce is nice with this. (3) Clean two or three Eels, remove the backbones, cut them up into pieces about 3in. in length, sprinkle themTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 545 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. over with salt and pepper, dip each piece into well-beaten egg, then into cracker-meal or breadcrumbs, taking care to cover it; when all are done, plunge them into a frying- pan of boiling lard, and fry for five minutes. Put them on a dish, garnish with plain or fried parsley, and serve. Galantine of Eel.—Eemove the backbone of a large Eel and clean it. Make a mince of the thin rind of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful each of parsley and sweet herbs, and a little ground mace, cayenne, and salt; spread this over the inside of the Eel, and roll it up, commencing from the head paid. Tie the fish up in a cloth, and boil it in equal parts of water and vinegar until it is quite tender. Let the stock and the fish get quite cold, take out the fish, remove the cloth, and serve. Galantine of Eels en Bastion.—A very elaborate dish has been prepared by Gouffe in the following manner :—Skin a couple of large Eels, open them down the belly, and remove the bones without splitting the fish in halves. Prepare a force- meat with a mixture of tongue, fat bacon, and truffles, and spread each of the Eels inside with a layer of it. Place | the fish back into their original shapes, roll them in small cloths, tie up with string in three different places, put them in a fish-kettle, pour in sufficient mirepoix to cover, and simmer on the side of the fire until they are quite done. Eemove the cloths, tie them up again in clean ones, put them back into the liquor, and let them remain for twenty minutes to cool. Take them out, remove the cloths again, and cut the fish into pieces about 4in. in length. Glaze four of these with fish glaze, and cut off another piece about 3Jin. long, and glaze that. Put a neatly-made rice socle on a dish, mask it with Montpellier butter, stand four of the pieces on the socle on their ends; take the fifth piece, which should be unglazed, place that in the centre of the others, and stick the other pieces to it with a little of the Montpellier butter. Put a little more of this butter on top of the fifth piece, and put a smaller piece crosswise on the top. Put a layer of the butter about £in. thick on a baking-sheet, and place it on the ice; when it is quite stiff cut it into four lengths, 4in. by l|in., place one on the side of each piece of fish stand- ing- on the socle ; cut off some more slips lin. long, put them round the bottom of each piece, and then put another jin. wide slip on the top of each piece of fish. Put some fillets of soles into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them; when they are cold, cut them up in the shape of battlements, and put them on the top of each piece of Eel over the narrow strip of butter, and then the pieces of fish will represent the fort or bastion. Cut out some small rounds of slices of the white of hard-boiled eggs, and stick on the Eels, to appear like the loop-holes under the battle- ments. Garnish the dish carefully with aspic jelly chopped up in small pieces. Galantine of Eel with Cucumber.—Prepare a galantine of Eel, cut it into slices, cover each with chervil- or tarragon- leaves, mask them with aspic, and set them on the ice. Put a dozen or two slices of cucumber on the ice also to keep Fig. 690. Galantine of Eel with Cucumber. cool. Pack a plain border-mould in ice, and arrange some pieces of gherkins, cut in triangles, round the sides, dipping each piece into aspic to make it stick to the mould. When these are arranged, fill the mould with aspic jelly, and let it Eels—continued. remain for an hour or so on the ice. Turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre up with a mixture of minced vegetables, with a little mayonnaise sauce to thicken it, forming a pyramid ; put the slices of cucumber round this in a circle, having dipped them in jelly to fix them in their places ; then arrange the slices of galantine glazed with aspic jelly over the vegetables, and serve. See Fig. 690. Matelote of Eels. — (1) Skin two large Eels, cut them as they are—without opening the belly—into pieces, thrust a knife-blade into each piece, and twist it round to remove the inside. Wash them well, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of stock and f pint of claret, adding a clove of garlic, a whole pepper, a sliced onion, a bay-leaf, thyme, cloves, parsley, and a little salt, and boil gently until done. Take out the pieces of fish, strain the liquor, and add a liqueur- glassful of brandy to it. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour to thicken, add it to the sauce, and boil. Place croutons of fried bread in a circle on a dish, arrange the fish in the centre, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Skin and clean ljlb. of Eels, cut them into pieces 2in. in length, wash them well, put them in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of butter, and fry them for two minutes ; add 1 wine- glassful of red wine, a little each of nutmeg, salt, and pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 tumblerful of fish stock or white broth, and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor; add six small glazed onions and six button-mushrooms. Cook for thirty minutes, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of white roux, stir well for five minutes longer, and serve with croutons of fried bread. (3) Skin two Eels and cut them into pieces about 2in. long, roll them in flour, and fry them in butter until lightly browned. Put ilb. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the fire ; then stir in J pint each of claret and stock freed from fat, add a bunch of sweet herbs, two shallots, a few cloves and peppercorns, salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne; boil the sauce for fifteen minutes, then strain it, return it to the saucepan with the Eels and a few button-mushrooms, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour longer; at the end of that time, mix the strained juice of a lemon with the Eels, turn them on to a hot dish with the sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Matelote of Eels a la Normande.—Cut ljlb. of Eels into pieces, put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and fry for two minutes; add 1 wineglassful of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, season well with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and cook for ten minutes longer; add % pint of veloute sauce, six mushrooms, twelve blanched oysters, six fish quenelles, and six small cooked crayfish-tails, and continue the cooking for five minutes. When ready to serve, beat in the yolks of three eggs, remove the pan from the fire, and serve with a garnish of croutons of fried bread. Matelote of Eel and Carp.—Clean an Eel and carp of equal weight, scale the carp, and cut both fish into 2in. pieces. Fry twenty small blanched and peeled onions in a large stewpan with 2oz. of butter, sift in 1 teacupful of flour, and stir over the fire for ten minutes; add a bunch of sweet herbs, one clove of garlic, a saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lqt. of red wine, and simmer for ten minutes longer, keeping the stewpan covered; then put in the pieces of Eel, and in fifteen minutes add the pieces of carp and i breakfast-cupful of brandy, and simmer for ten minutes, seasoning to taste. Dish the pieces of fish, garnish with the onions, strain the sauce over the fish, and serve. Mayonnaise of Eels.—Pick out an Eel of about 21b. or 2Jlb. in weight, clean it, remove the head and skin, and cut it'up into pieces about 21in. in length; plunge these into salted water for a short time, take them out and wipe them dry, put in layers in a dish, sprinkle spice over each layer, pour over a little vinegar and water, with 1 teaspoonful of isinglass dissolved in the water, and bake in a moderate oven. Take the pieces of Eel out of the dish, put them into another one, when cold pour over a little mayonnaise sauce, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Porcupine Eel (Anguille piquee).—Select a large live Eel, kill it, hang it on a nail, cut the skin near the gills, and pull it off. Clean the fish out at the gills, flatten the head, lard the back with long strips of bacon, fix it in such a way with546 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. skewers and string that the pieces of bacon are outside and on the top, and put it in the oven to hake. Cut a carrot and a few small onions into slices, put them into a saucepan with loz. or 2oz. of butter, a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, mixed spices, garlic, salt and pepper to taste, and set the pan over the fire ; when the onions and carrots are browned, add a little white sauce and broth, and boil for an hour; then strain it well, put it back in the saucepan, make it hot again, and pour it over the Eel, already laid on a dish. Serve with a little tomato sauce. Potted Eels.—(1) Clean the Eels, cut them into 3in. lengths, bone them, season well with salt, black pepper, Jamaica pepper, and a small quantity of mace, pack them closely in jars, and leave for a few hours; then cover them with a plain water paste, and bake in a moderate oven. In about an hour the Eels will be cooked. Take them out of the oven, and leave until cold; then take off the paste, and pour a few table-spoonfuls of clarified butter over them. (2) Young silver Eels are the best for this. Take them by the head in the left hand and pass them through a cloth covered with salt held in the right hand, squeezing them so as to get the salt well into the skin; then put them into cold salted water, and leave them for an hour to soak. Take them out, clean well, chop them up into 2in. lengths, put them into an earthenware jar or pot, dust over with allspice, salt, and pepper, moisten with a little vinegar and water, cover the pot, and set them in the oven to bake until tender. They are then to be served in a pie-dish with mashed potatoes, or cold with salad and cucumber. Raised Eel Pie.—Skin and clean a large Eel, cut it into pieces 2in. long, put them in a stewpan with a few sliced onions, two or three sprigs of parsley and thyme, one bay-leaf, and a clove of garlic, and cover with Madeira wine. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side, and simmer till the Eel is done; drain, and put the pieces of fish in a saute-pan. Strain the liquor, put it in a stewpan, add some Spanish sauce, and reduce; when thick, strain it, pour some of it into the saut6- pan with the Eels, and boil for two or three minutes. Have a pie-crust ready baked, put in the Eels, place a circle of oooked mushrooms roitnd the top, put some carp or other soft roes in the middle, pour the remainder of the sauce over, and serve while hot. Roasted Eel.—(1) Pull off the skin from a large Eel, clean and wash it, lard it with strips of fat bacon, put it in a baking- dish, dredge over a seasoning' of finely-minced sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, pour over sufficient rich broth and vinegar in equal proportions to moisten it, and let it soak for about three hours. Take it out, drain it, wrap it round with well- buttered paper, fix on a spit, and roast it slowly in front of a clear fire for from thirty to thirty-five minutes, basting frequently with a little white wine and its own liquor. About five minutes before it is done, remove the paper to let the Eel brown well. Place it on a dish when quite done, and serve. (2) Skin and clean a large Eel, put it into a marinade for fish, and turn it frequently for an hour or so ; then take it out, wipe it, and truss it with skewers to form a circle. In the meantime, fry in butter over a slow fire four onions and two truffles cut into slices, a scraped parsley-root, two cloves, and a seasoning of bay-leaf, thyme, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Let this get cold, with it cover four sheets of paper, place the Eel on them, tie it up, fix it on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for an hour. Remove the papers, herbs, and skewers, put it on a dish, and serve with mushroom or other sauce poured round. Savoury Eel Saveloys.—Clean a large Eel, put half of it cut in pieces into a basin with a small handful of chopped pistachio-kernels, a rasher of bacon blanched and cut in dice, a few raw pickled truffles also cut in dice, and a small piece of preserved tunny-fish; sprinkle over spice, salt, and cayenne, add 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and thicken with grated bacon and raw pike quenelle forcemeat. Clean some pig’s intestines, fill them with the mixture, secure both ends, roll them round in cloths, tie them tightly, and boil for an-hour-and-a- half in fat broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in also j 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine. When done, take them out, [ drain them, take off the cloths, dip the cloths in the liquor again, roll the sausages in them, and let them cool. Cut them E els—continued. in slices, arrange in a circle on a dish, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. Smoked Eel Salad.—In Sweden this process is carried out somewhat as follows: Skin some large Eels, cover them with salt, and leave them to macerate for a few hours. Take them out, wipe dry, and hang' up by their heads on hooks in a tun or cask with one side taken out. Raise the tun on three bricks, and place it over a small wooden fire (one that is nearly, but not quite, out will be sufficient), supplying this at intervals with small pieces of resinous wood. Leave the Eels like this for five or six hours, by which time they should be both cooked and thoroughly smoked. Cut them up, remove the skin, put them into a basin, and baste with a little vinegar and oil. In the meantime, make a salad of boiled potatoes, carrots, beetroot, celery, gherkins, pickled mushrooms, and salted cucumbers, all chopped up small, with a few whole capers; season well, put it into a basin, baste with a little more oil and vinegar, and let it remain for a couple of hours. Put this into a border-mould, press it down slightly, turn it out on a dish, place the fish in the centre, pour over the oil and vinegar, and serve. Spitclicocked Eels.—(1) Skin the required quantity of Eels, slit them down the back, take out the bone, cut them in pieces 3in. long, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs seasoned with sweet herbs and white pepper, and broil them over a clear fire. Dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with lemon in slices. See Fig'. 691. (2) Take two or three Eels, open them on the under-side, clean them thoroughly, and wipe quite dry, but do not skin them. When they are cleaned and well dried, cut them into pieces about 3Jin. long, brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle them plentifully with a mixture of chopped parsley, a very small quantity of chopped sage, pepper, salt, and a very little powdered mace. Lay the fish on a well- greased gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire. Lay them on a hot dish, put on each a bit of butter, with a little anchovy sauce rubbed or pounded into it, and serve very hot. Spitchcocked Larded Eels.—Skin and clean a large Eel, lard it with narrow strips of bacon, roll it in salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, put it in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful each of broth and vinegar, and let it steep for two hours. Take it out, drain, fold in buttered paper, skewer it round, fix it on the spit, and roast for half-an-hour, basting con- tinually with Madeira wine and dripping. Take off the paper, sprinkle over a little flour, baste well, and brown it, still on the spit in front of the fire, for five minutes. Dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Eels.—(1) Clean an Eel weighing about lib., cut it up into pieces 3in. long, roll these in flour, season them with a little pepper and salt, and fry in a frying-pan of boiling fat until they are, brown; then put them on a strainer in front of the fire, and leave for a time. Take them away again, and let them get cold; then put them into a saucepan with beef broth, and put in also the head and tail of the Eel; add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Pour into a hot dish, and serve. (2) Clean two or three largo Eels, cut them into small pieces about 2in. long, and marinade them in salted vinegar. Put a little butter and flour into a saucepan with a few slices of onion ; when the onion is brown, add the Eels and sufficient broth and wine to cover them, also a bunch of sweet herbs, a little whole pepper, a few strips of lemon-peel, two or three cloves, and a- pinch of salt. Set the pan on the fire, and stew gently until the fish is quite done, but not long enough547 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, if'c., referred to, sec under their special heads. E els—con tinued. for it to fall to pieces. Take out the pieces of Eel, and put them on a dish ; add the juice of half a lemon to the liquor, remove the herbs and lemon-peel, boil up again, and pour it over ihe Eels before serving. (3) Clean and skin the Eels, cut them into pieces about 3jin. long, sprinkle them with a seasoning of salt, pounded cloves, mace, and pepper, put them into a stewpan with strong beef gravy, sherry, and port in equal quantities to cover them, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the Eels stew till quite tender. Take them out, lay them on a hot dish, and keep hot. Add to the gravy in the stewpan a chopped anchovy and a thickening of flour and butter, boil it well, strain it through a sieve, add a few drops of lemon- juice, and then pour it over the Eels. Serve hot, garnished with bread sippets and scraped horseradish. (4) Skin the Eels, cut them into equal-sized pieces, and lard them. Rub the inside of a stewpan with butter, put in the pieces of Eels, pour in a small quantity of broth, and stew them. When tender, drain, and glaze them a rich dark brown. Arrange the pieces of fish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and servo with a sauceboatful of caper sauce, with a few drops of essence of anchovies mixed with it. (5) Clean the Eels, wipe dry, cut them into short lengths, and fry them slightly in butter; then put the pieces into a stewpan, together with an onion stuck with seven or eight cloves, a seasoning of mace, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and a small quantity of horseradish; pour over them barely enough gravy to cover, close the pan tightly, and stew till half done; then take out the Eels, and strain the gravy. Return the strained gravy and the Eels to the stewpan, together with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, jib. of butter, and ^ pint of port wine, and simmer till the Eels are done enough. Dish, and serve hot. (6) Skin and clean the Eels, cut them into pieces about 3in. long, put them into salted vinegar, and let them steep for a short time. Make a roux of flour and butter in a stew- pan, put into it an onion peeled and sliced, and fry it a light brown; add the Eels, mix in gradually sufficient stock or gravy together with a small quantity of wine to cover them, also a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, two or three cloves, a little whole pepper, and a small quantity of salt. Stew gently till the Eels are thoroughly done, but not stewed to pieces, and then put them on a hot dish. Strain the gravy, add to it the strained juice of a lemon, and, if it requires it, more seasoning; boil up, pour it over the Eels, and serve hot. If to be served cold, boil rather more spice with them, and instead of the lemon-juice add 1 wineglassful of vinegar. Stewed stuffed Eels.—Bone two large Eels, and wash them well in vinegar-and-water. Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb, then beat them well, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, -J- table-spoonful of thyme, one well-beaten egg, and loz. of warmed butter, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Spread open the Eels, staff them with the mixture, roll them in separate pieces of muslin, and tie securely. Put them in a stewpan, pour over sufficient clear broth to cover them, and set the pan over the fire until boiling; then move to the side, and simmer gently for half-an-hour; at the end of that time move the stewpan right away from the fire, and leave the fish in their cooking-liquor until cold. When about to serve, take the Eels out of the muslin, put them on a dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Stewed Eels a l’Americaine.—Take 31b. of Eels, cleaned, skinned, and all fat removed from the insides, cut them into pieces about 2in. long, shake a little pepper and salt over them, and put them in a jar with ilb. of butter. Chop an onion, and strew it over the Eels, together with 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Cover the jar closely, stand it over the fire in a saucepan of cold water, bring this slowly to the boil, and cook till the Eels are tender. This will take about an-hour-and-a-half from the time the water boils. Serve in a deep dish. Stewed Eels a la Bordelaise.—Skin and clean an Eel, split it open, remove the bone, and put the Eel in a stewpan, with a Eels—continued. slice of onion, two or three sprigs of parsley, and 1 pinch of salt and pepper ; cover with Madeira wine, and simmer till the Eel is done. Take it out, and press it between two plates till cold. Strain and reduce the liquor, add a little fish glaze, and strain it through a conical strainer into a bain-marie pan. Cut the Eel into fillets, put these with a little of the sauce into a saute-pan over a moderate fire, and let the pieces of Eel get hot. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, and garnish the centre with blanched and glazed small onions. Mix a little anchovy butter and 1 pinch of cayenne with matelote sauce, pour it over the Eels, and serve. Stewed Eel a l’ltalienne.—Skin and clean a large Eel, cut it into pieces about 3in. long, put these into a saucepan with a little white wine and water, and boil until done. Mince a few shallots and mushrooms, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, season with peppercorns and salt, and set it on the fire; when it begins to get warm, add 2 table-spoonfuls of stock or gravy and the liquor in which the Eels were cooked, and reduce it. Put the fish on a dish, pour over the hot sauce, and serve. Stewed Eels a la Poulette.—(1) Clean and cut some Eels into 2in. pieces, and stew them in a marinade or stock. Make a little white roux, and mix a little broth with it; add a few green onions, a bunch of parsley, one small white onion, five or six mushrooms and a little glaze, seasoning with pepper and salt, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring continually. Take out the parsley and onions, and add a little finely-chopped parsley and the juice of one lemon. Take out the Eels, drain them, dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Clean and cut off the heads of some small Eels, cut the bodies into pieces 2in. long, wash them in warm acidulated water, rinse them in fresh water, and wipe on a cloth. Fry a sliced onion in a stewpan with a little butter, and when very lightly coloured add the pieces of Eels, and cook them over a very sharp fire; sprinkle over salt, pepper, and a little flour, and add gradually sufficient Madeira wine to cover the fish, with a few sprigs of parsley; when the liquor boils, put in twelve fresh mushrooms, cover over with the lid, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Thicken with the yolks of three eggs beaten with a little water, and squeeze in the juice of one lemon. Dish the Eels, strain the sauce over the fish, garnish with the mushrooms, and serve. (3) Put some Eels, cut into short lengths, in a saucepan with water, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and set on the fire. Make a white roux, mix with it a little veal broth, add a little chopped parsley and onions, and boil for twenty minutes; add some button-mushrooms and the juice of one lemon, stir in some of the liquor in which the Eels have been stewed to bring it to its proper consistency, and thicken it if necessary with the yolk of an egg. Put the pieces of Eel on a dish, pour the poulette sauce over them, and serve. (4) Skin, clean, and wash a large Eel, chop off the head and tail, and cut the fish up into rather thick slices. Brush the slices over with warmed butter, dredge over flour to cover them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient white wine and water in equal quantities to cover them, add a few mushrooms, a small bunch of sweet herbs and a little salt, and stew gently for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Put the pieces of Eel on a dish. Skim off the fat from the liquor, boil it quickly for a few minutes, add the yolk of an egg to thicken it, and a little lemon-juice and vinegar; pour this over the Eel, and serve. (5) Skin and clean an Eel, cut it up into rather thick pieces, wash these well, and let them soak in a basin of cold water slightly acidulated with vinegar. Scrape and remove all the blood, wash the fish again, drain it, put it into a saucepan with a little butter and a few mushrooms, warm these over the fire for a few minutes, dredge the pieces of Eel over with flour, pour over J pint of white wine and a little rich stock, stir well with a wooden spoon until the liquor boils, and then add a small bunch of parsley, a few shallots, two or three dozen small onions, half a bay-leaf, one or two cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the whole simmer gently until the liquor is reduced ; then skim off the fat, remove the bunch of herbs, add the yolks of two or three eggs to thicken, and a little lemon- juice. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Stewed Eels with Green Peas.—Cut off the heads of five or six small Eels of about jin. in thickness, remove the skin, and cut them up into rather small pieces. Chop and fry an 2x2548 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Eels—continued. onion in a little butter or oil; when slightly cooked, put in the pieces of Eel, sprinkle oyer with salt and pepper, and toss them over a good fire until the flesh begins to get j firm; then add a bunch of parsley, 1 pint of green peas, and a little more salt and pepper, place the lid on the pan, remove it to the side of the fire, cover the lid with hot coals or wood j embers, and stew gently until the peas are done. Remove the parsley, add a little kneaded butter to thicken the stew, | and serve. This is a very delicious dish. Stewed Eel and Rabbit.—Skin and clean an Eel and a rabbit, cut them up into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little brown sauce mixed with a few small onions and mushrooms, and brown them. When the pieces are of a good colour, pour in a little white wine and a good supply of rich stock, and add a seasoning of parsley, chives, thyme, salt, and pepper, and cook for a few minutes; then take out the pieces of Eel and onions, and cook until the rabbit is about two-thirds done. Replace the Eel and onions, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the whole is well cooked. Skim off all the fat, turn the contents of the pan out on to a dish, and serve with small pieces of toast for garnish. Stewed Eel with Tartar Sauce.—(1) Skin and clean a good-sized Eel, steep it in boiling water for two or three minutes, and then rub off the second oily skin; if this does not come off easily, steep it again. Chop off the fins, cut the Eel into 3in. pieces, put these in a saut6-pan, add 1 pint of court bouillon, and simmer for twenty minutes. When done, let it cool in the liquor for half-an-hour. Beat two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of water; drain the pieces of Eel, dip them in the egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry brown in a frying-pan with butter. Put a folded napkin on a dish, arrange the pieces of Eel on this, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. (2) Skin and wash an Eel, chop off the head and tail, cut it in 2in. pieces, put these into a flat stewpan, season with a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and a little salt, and cover with white wine. Boil g-ently, and when done, leave the pieces of Eel to cool in the liquor. Take them out, trim the edges of the bones, drain them, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and powdered herbs over them. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little oiled butter, roll the pieces of Eel in it and then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, turning and basting them with butter. Dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. Conger Eels.—These cannot be cooked in the same manner as silver Eels, as they require some less refined process, and the addition of flavourings that would he quite unnecessary for the sweeter and more delicate river Eel. Baked stuffed Conger Eel.—Cut off a piece about 1ft. long from the thick end of a large Conger Eel, stuff it with highly- seasoned breadcrumbs, put it into a baking-dish, pour over 1 pint of water, sprinkle over a little flour, place small lumps of butter all over it, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour, or until done, basting frequently with the liquor. Put it on a dish, thicken the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Boiled Conger Eel.—Clean and wash 21b. of Conger Eel, bind it round with string to keep it in shape, blanch it in boiling- water for ten minutes, drain, and put in a saucepan holding- about 4qts.; add sufficient water to cover it, also two sliced onions, a handful of chopped parsley, one clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, loz. of salt, joz. of whole pepper, and | pint of vinegar, and simmer for half-an-hour. Take the Eel out, drain it, put it on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with Dutch or melted-butter sauce. Broiled Conger Eel.—(1) Clean and draw a Conger Eel, cut it in pieces, and partially boil it in salted water with sweet herbs. Take the pieces of fish out of the water, wipe them, and broil them over a clear fire; baste with butter and sprinkle a few powdered sweet herbs over the slices. When one side is partly done, turn them, and when both sides are quite done, dish them up and serve with a thin white sauce. (2) Fillet a thick piece of Conger Eel, clean and cut the fillets transversely into thin slices, and soak them for one hour in salted vinegar. Drain, dry them on a cloth, season, roll them For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eels—continued. in oil and then in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a moderate fire. When done on both sides, dish them, and serve with piquant sauce. Conger-Eel Forcemeat Balls.—Pound lib. of Conger Eel in a mortar, add lOoz. each of butter and bread panada, mix in two eggs and 1 pint of reduced veloute sauce, made without meat and thickened with three eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, form the forcemeat into small balls, and poach them. Dish on a folded napkin, or use for garnish. Conger-Eel Pie.—Skin and clean a moderate-sized Conger Eel, cut it into pieces, and remove the bones; put these into a saucepan with the trimmings, add a little each of spice, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, a small onion cut in slices, pour over lqt. of water, and simmer gently until done and the liquor will jelly when cold. Sprinkle the pieces of Conger with salt and pepper, roll them in a mixture of finely-chopped sage and parsley, put them at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour over the strained liquor, put fifteen or sixteen oysters with their liquor on the top, cover over with a good paste, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour or so. Take the pie out when done, and serve cold. Conger-Eel Soup (Jersey Style).—Put 41b. of Conger Eel in a saucepan with 3qts. of salted water, and boil gently for one hour; then strain off all the water through a fine sieve, retm-n it to the saucepan without the Eel, put in 1 pint of green peas, and boil them for ten minutes; add gradually a little each of finely-chopped parsley, thyme, borage, leek, chives, and marigold flowers, and boil until the peas are quite tender. Knead 2oz. of flour with 2oz. of butter, mix it smoothly in a basin with a small quantity of the soup, then pour it in with the soup, and stir until thick. Pour in gradually lqt. of milk, and boil for five minutes longer. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread separately. Fried Conger Eel.—Clean a Conger Eel, cut it up into slices about 1 jin. thick, dip these into beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light colour. When done (they should not take longer than twenty-five minutes), take them out, put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve with a sauceboatful of any fish sauce. Roasted Conger Eel.—Take a good-sized piece out of- the middle of a Conger Eel, skin it, and let it soak for a few hours in vinegar and salt mixed with sweet herbs. Stuff the fish with veal stuffing, bind it round with tape, fix it on a spit or bottle-jack, and roast in front of the fire, Fig. 692. Roasted Conger Eel. dredging with flour, and basting continually. When the fish is done, take it off, strain the gravy, put it in a stewpan with a little flour and vinegar or anchovy sauce, make it hot, pour it over the fish, and serve with quarters of lemons on a separate plate (see Fig. 692). Stewed Conger Eels (Italian Mode).—Clean thoroughly two or three Conger Eels, rubbing well with salt, and rinsing in plenty of water. Dry them, put them in a bowl, pour over- oil and vinegar, and let them marinade for an hour. After- wards drain, put them in a stewpan with a dozen cockles, 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, and just sufficient water to cover, season highly with black pepper and whole sweet spices, and stew gently until tender. Boil jib. of macaroni until tender, drain it, and lay it over a hot dish. When cooked, drain and skin the Eels, and cut them lengthwise into halves, remove the bones, and lay them on the macaroni. Boil the Eel cooking-liquor until reduced to about half its original quantity, strain it through a fine hair sieve over Sauces, <i-c., referred to, see iinder their special heads.549 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eels—continued. the fish and macaroni, place the cockles round the dish in small gToups, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Stewed Conger Eel with Curry Sauce.—Remove the skin and cut into fillets a thick piece of Conger Eel, soak these for an hour in salted vinegar, rinse them, wipe dry, and divide into square pieces. Chop a large onion and brown it in butter; then put in the pieces of fish, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes ; season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful each of flour and curry-powder, and cook for a few minutes longer; add sufficient water and white wine to cover the fish, put in some spices and a bunch of parsley, and cook for five minutes or till the water begins to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently until the fish is done. Remove the bunch of parsley, take out the fish, thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, strain it through a conical strainer over the fish, and serve. EELPOUT (Fr. Lotte ; Ger. Aalraupe).—This remark- able fish (Zoarces viviparus) partakes something of the character of an eel, combined with that of a larger fish Fig. 693. Eelpout or Burbot. (see Fig. 693). It is found in European and some American rivers, where it attains a considerable size. It is not much of a favourite with cooks, the flesh being some- what hard and coarse. By many it may be better known as the Burbot, or by some of its numerous aliases, as Greenbone, Guffer, Bard, Maroona Eel, Lote, and others. It has the very remarkable peculiarity, for a fish, of producing its young alive. Boiled Eelpouts a la Parisienne.—Scrape, clean, and well wash three or four Eelpouts, put them into a saucepan with sufficient mirepoix sauce to moisten them, and cook slowly until done. In the meantime, chop up the livers, and make them hot in a saucepan with oyster sauce. Place the fish on a dish, pour the oyster sauce over them, and serve very hot. Boiled Eelpout a la Prusse. -Put a large slice of fat ham, weighing 4oz. to 6oz., into a saucepan, and warm it until the fat commences to run ; then pour over 2 tumblerfuls of champagne and 1 teacupful each of strong rich gravy and brown thicken- ing, and add a bunch of parsley, an onion cut in slices, and a few chives and laurel-leaves ; place the pan on a rather quick fire, and boil for an hour. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add a scraped and cleaned Eelpout, without the liver, well sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and cook until done. Place the fish on a dish, reduce the sauce, pour it over, and serve. Eelpout-Liver Pie.—Cold.—Blanch the livers of four Eelpouts in hot water that has been slightly acidulated with either vinegar or lemon-juice, drain, put them in cold water till cold, cut into small square pieces, put in a basin with seven or eight raw truffles that have been peeled and cut into quarters, dust some salt and spices over both livers and truffles, pour in about 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and let them soak a short time. Put the trimmings of the livers in a mortar with a few chopped anchovies and three raw truffles, and pound them all together. Chop lib. of bacon and about fib. of pike-flesh, put in the mortar, and pound them; then mix with the other pounded articles. Season the forcemeat to taste, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Butter the interior of a cold pie-mould, then stand it on a baking-sheet that has been covered with thick paper, line it with short-paste, mask it at the bottom and sides with the forcemeat, and fill with alternate layers of the livers, truffles, and forcemeat, building it to a dome shape. The last layer in the pie should be forcemeat. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trimming it round the edges, moistening and pressing these together. Gather the trimmings Eelpout—continued. of the paste up together, roll out the mass, and shape out of it a few imitation leaves ; arrange these on the top of the pie ; make a small hole in the centre, cover the opening with a small round of paste, brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and put it in a moderate oven. When the pie has been in the oven ten minutes, cover it over with a sheet of paper, and finish baking for nearly two hours. When cooked, remove the paper, and leave the pie for half-an-hour ; then pour in at the top f pint of warmed aspic jelly in which 1 wineglassful of sherry has been mixed. When quite cold, put the pie on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a cold dish, garnish it with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Eelpout Soup. —Take two Eelpouts, selecting those whoso bellies are enlarged by their livers swelling. Remove the livers, clean well, put them in water to steep, and then put them into acidulated boiling water to blanch. Cut the Eelpouts transversely, dust the pieces over with salt, and leave them for an hour to macerate. Take three onions, two celery-roots, and three carrots ; chop them up fine, and fry them until cooked; then add one tench, one perch (cleaned and cut into pieces), and the tail parts and jowls of the Eelpouts. Put these into a saucepan, and add 1 bottle of white wine, fgall. of water, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; set the pan on the fire, and boil continually until the fish is done ; then pour the soup through a sieve into another saucepan, take off the fat, and let it get nearly cold. Clarify the soup by adding a mixture consisting of 4 table-spoonfuls of caviare or raw fish-flesh with the whites of two eggs pounded together, the juice of two lemons, and a little wine. Put the pan with the broth again on the fire, and work it well with a whisk until it boils; then put it on the side for a couple of minutes, pass it through a napkin, and keep it hot in a basin. Put a little celery-root, finely shred, into a pan with two roots of parsley, a leek finely minced, and a little butter, and fry them, but not sufficiently for them to colour; when they are getting dry, add a little broth, and reduce to a glaze. When all the vegetables are done, add them to the soup, and then add the pieces of fish, washed and wiped dry; let the soup boil up, and then put it at the side of the fire to simmer for ten or twelve minutes. Take out the fish, drain and wipe nearly dry, cut them into thin slices, put them in the soup-tureen, and pour the soup over. Stewed Eelpouts. —(1) Clean and wash two or three Eelpouts, put them into a saucepan with butter, warm them, add a moistening of white wine and a seasoning of blanched onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. When the fish are nearly done, add the well-washed livers and a little carp’s roe, place the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the fish are done. Put each fish on a piece of toast on a dish, and serve with the liquor poured over them. (2) Clean and wash two or three Eelpouts, put their livers into a saucepan with a little butter and flour, and brown them. Add the fish, together with a few fine herbs and mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and pour over sufficient white wine to moisten. Place the saucepan over the fire, and cook slowly until they are done. When the fish are ready, put them on a dish, with the mushrooms for garnish, pour the sauce through a fine sieve over them, and serve. EGGS (Fr. (Eufs ; Ger. Eier; Sp. Huevos; Ital. Uova). —The origin of the term as used in our language may be said to be Old English, that is to say Anglo-Saxon, derived from Icelandic, or some such source, and applies to the unhatched young of all kinds of life, whether birds, fish, reptiles, or insects. In cookery, the Eggs of birds are chiefly used, although those of some reptiles, especially of the turtle, are considered worthy of considerable attention. In this article reference is made exclusively to Eggs in general use, whether fowl’s, duck’s, turkey’s, or, more rarely, those of geese. Special Eggs, or those requiring special treatment, such as Guinea fowl’s, plover’s, &c., are treated under their specific headings. Eggs are very nutritious and easily digested. They contain necessarily all the nutriment that is required for the construction of the young chick, and by the peculiarities of their constitution, hardening by theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 550 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. application of sufficient heat, and being comparatively tasteless, ai’e absolutely invaluable to the cook, pastry- cook, and confectioner, even if they may not be con- sidered to be the very mainspring of artistic cookery. They are applied to such a multitude of uses, for making creams, custards, blanc-manges, liaisons, sauces, cakes, pancakes, omelets, pastes, icing, clarifying, and a host of other good things, that one naturally wonders what cookery would be without them. The composition of an Egg is said to be: White. Yolk. Nitrogenous (flesh-forming) matter.. . 20-4 16-0 Fatty matter ... — 30-7 Saline ... 1G 1-3 Water ... . 78-0 52-0 100-0 100-0 From the foregoing table it will be seen that the white contains more flesh-forming material than the yolk, but the latter consists of nearly one-third fat, which is not found in the white at all. This is accounted for by the fact that the white of the Egg forms the body of the chicken, the yolk filling up the interior as a sort of reserve of stores. The lime necessary for forming the bones of the chicken is absorbed from the shell. By their manner of construction, Eggs are well calcu- lated to preserve an otherwise very changeable or decom- posable material from decomposition. The shell in itself, although exceedingly hard, is freely perforated, hence Eggs kept in musty straw soon taste musty. This shell is lined with a tough membrane; but this also is permeable; nevertheless, the shell receives so much additional assistance from the lining membrane, that its pores are sufficiently closed to resist and keep out the microbes of decomposition for a considerable time. Eggs for cooking should be “fresh,” not necessarily newly laid, but quite free from even incipient decomposi- tion. To ensure this it is as well to have some efficient means of testing them, although a good cook runs no risk of breaking a bad Egg into a basin of others, because each Egg is broken separately into a cup, and added to the others when the cook is assured of its healthy condition. The following rules are given for testing the age of an Egg: hold it to the light, and if it is clear and transparent, that is one sign in its favour; if dark or dull, it should be treated with suspicion; next, dissolve 2oz. of kitchen salt in 1 pint of warm water, and when cold this may be used as a testing fluid. A new-laid Egg will sink to the bottom and stay there; a day or two old, the Egg will rise a little olf the bottom; three days old, half-way; and so on, until a very old Egg projects right out of the surface of the water. Eggs are decomposed by the access of microbes and air absorbed through the shells; the egg-preserver, therefore, exercises his ingenuity to keep these microbes and air out. Various schemes have been proposed, and amongst those which appear to give the best results are : First pack them with the small end down in clean, dry Eggs —continued. salt packed in barrels or tubs, and then set them in a cool, dry situation; or they may be placed in vessels containing milk of lime, alum-water, or strong brine. Some persons cover them with a solution of beeswax or paraffin-wax in warm olive oil—one-third beeswax, two- thirds oil—in which they will keep for more than two years if necessary. Paint- ing them over with liquid gum is also recommended. But however useful this act of preserving Eggs may be so far as ex- ceptional circumstances may require, happily the British cook is so well supplied, that any mode of pre- servation is rather to be discouraged, for there are so many ways of using Eggs that it cannot be necessary to keep them, and such scarcity as to require the use of pre- served Eggs is unknown in this country, enormous quantities being imported from the Continent. When the cook has care- fully broken a certain num- ber of Eggs into a bowl (see Fig. 694), they have to be mixed together, per- haps whites only, or yolks only, and perhaps all to- gether. A very convenient is an Egg-beater, which, whilst resting on the bottom of the basin, mixes them bodily by merely pressing the handle down (see Fig. 695). The lower part, amongst the Eggs, is made up of tin hoops, which revolve rapidly in different directions, and so by just forcing the handle down once or twice—it jumps back with a spring, continuing the revol- ving action of the lioofis as it does so—the Eggs are thoroughly mixed, and the whites and yolks incorpo- rated. For whipping Eggs a whisk is required, and the better kind consists of merely a few loops of strong wire bound into a handle. Since an Egg beaten up with milk has become a favourite nourishing drink amongst teetotalers and others, an instrument for mixing them with- out using an Egg-bowl was found necessary, and led to the invention of the Egg-whip (see Fig. 696). This consists of a cylinder and piston fitted with a perforated disc. The Egg and a little milk are put into the whip, and by forcibly working the piston two or three times the milk and Egg finely mixed can be poured out into the tumbler. The Lightning Egg-beater (see Fig. 697) is worked on a similar principle, and gives most satisfactory results. The following receipts for cooking Eggs do not apply to the innumer- able special dishes in which Eggs are used, nor to Easter Eggs, which are described under that heading. Baked Eggs.—(1) Break the required number of Eggs into a basin one at a time, put them separately on a well-buttered dish, sprinkle over a little salt, and bake them in the oven Fig. 695. Egg-beater (Zeitz and Co.). contrivance for effecting this551 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac , referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. until done and the whites quite firm. Place a lump of butter on each, garnish the dish with parsley, round each egg put small strips of bacon, and serve. (2) Proceed as for No. 1, sprinkle over cracker- or bread- crumbs, and bake until the whites are firm and the crumbs brown. (3) Whip the whites of the Eggs to a froth, season slightly with salt, spread the froth roughly over a baking-sheet, making indentations in it, and put in the yolks, keeping them a little distance apart; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and bake in a quick oven until the froth is quite firm. (4) Heat £oz. of butter in a dish on the hot stove, break into it twelve fresh Eggs, sprinkle over 2oz. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, set the dish in the oven, and bake for two minutes. Pour over 1 pint of well-reduced Spanish sauce, add 3oz. of finely-chopped, cooked, tender ham or cooked kidneys, and serve at once. (5) Beat four Eggs in a basin, add 8 table-spoonfuls of milk and 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-minced parsley, with salt and pepper to taste. Put a little butter in a pie-dish (an enamelled one is the best), make it hot, pour in the Eggs, and bake in a quick oven until the Eggs are quite firm. (6) Well butter a small dish, break in carefully six Eggs, keeping the yolks intact, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over, and put in a slow oven. When done, serve in the same dish. (7) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter on a hot dish; as soon as the butter has run, break three Eg'gs separately and put them in the dish. Beat the yolks of two Eggs with some finely-chopped parsley, one minced anchovy, half a small shallot, 1 pinch of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and five or six capers; add the well-beaten whites of the two Eggs, pour the mixture into the dish with the other Eggs, and stand it in a quick oven for three or four minutes to set. Garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Baked Eggs masked with. Forcemeat.—Take a small quantity each of lean ham, veal, and anchovy, and mince them very fine, adding a little cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste. Remove the shells from half-a-dozen hard-boiled Eggs, and cover them all over thickly with the forcemeat. Beat up the yolk of an Egg, brush the Eggs over with it, and hake in a quick oven for about a-quarter-of-an-hour or until done. Take them out, put them on a dish, and pour brown gravy round them. Boiled Eggs.—Before being boiled, the Eggs should be warm, that is, not brought at once from a cold cellar and boiled. Plunge them into boiling water and boil gently for three minutes, when the yolks will be soft and the whites a little hardened. If boiled for five minutes exactly, the whites will become quite hard, while the yolks will remain soft; and if boiled for three or four minutes longer they will be quite hard; but for salads they require to be boiled for a-quarter-of- an-hour. If the Eggs are very cold, as they are likely to he in the winter, holding them in steam will sufficiently warm them. If the shell of an Egg should be cracked, prick small holes in the thickest end of the Egg, which will prevent the contents oozing out while boiling. Broiled Eggs ■with Clieese.—This is prepared in the same way as Broiled Eggs with Parsley, with the exception of 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese being scattered over. Broiled Eggs with Crayfish-tails.—Put a piece of butter in a shallow saucepan, and place it on the side of the fire to warm. Beat up eight Eggs in a basin, season with salt and pepper to taste, put them into the saucepan, place this on the fire, and stir so that the Eggs will be perfectly smooth. As soon as the mixture thickens, remove it from the fire, stirring continually, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream and a little red butter made with the shells of cray- fish-tails. Let it remain for a couple of minutes, add 4 table- spoonfuls of cooked and picked crayfish-tails, turn it all out on to a dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried in butter, and serve. Broiled Eggs with Mushrooms.—Chop up three cooked mushrooms, and put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of melted butter; break four Eggs in a basin, add them to the mush- rooms, with 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce or rich gravy, and .V teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Put the pan on the fire, stirring continually until the Eggs begin to set; then remove it to the side, and stir again for two or three minutes. Line a dish with some slices of toast, pour the mixture over, and serve very hot. Broiled Eggs with Parsley.—Break six Eggs into a igall. saucepan with 4oz. of butter, set the pan on the fire, and warm the butter; then add teacupful of milk and a little salt and pepper. Place the pan over the fire, and beat the contents well with a whisk until the Eggs begin to set; take it off, and whisk for two or three minutes longer. Put in 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and stir again; turn the mixture out on to a dish, surround it with small strips of toast, and serve. Care must be taken not to cook the Eggs too much, and see, too, that the whisk moves all the mixture from the side of the pan. Broiled Eggs with Truffles or Asparagus Peas.— Put eight Eggs into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, 4- teacupful of cream, and a little salt and grated nutmeg, set the pan over the fire, and stir with a spoon until the Eggs begin to set; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped truffles, or asparagus peas, mix thoroughly, and turn out on to a dish. Garnish with a few small pieces of fried bread, and serve. Curried Eggs.— (1) Peel six hard-boiled Eggs, and cut them into slices. Put 1 teaspoonful each of chopped onions and butter in a frying-pan, and stir over the fire till brown; add i teacupful of flour and curry-powder mixed in equal pro- portions, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, season with salt and pepper, and simmer till the onions are soft, then add the Eggs. When warmed through, turn all on to a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of green peas and two onions, or two carrots and two turnips sliced, into a saucepan with 1 pint of stock or salted water, and boil them ; take out when done, and rub through a hair sieve. Put 1 table- spoonful of curry-powder into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk or cream, and work it into a smooth paste, adding salt to season; then mix the vegetable puree in with it, put the saucepan on the fire, and stir well until its contents become quite thick. Cut several hard-boiled Eggs into slices, put them on a dish, pour over the mixture, garnish with pieces of toast, and serve. (3) Brown some slices of onions in a stewpan of butter, sprinkle in a little flour, and add | pint of stock. Mix 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder and 1 dessert-spoonful of corn- flour with sufficient milk to give it the consistency of batter; stir this in with the onions, and boil for two or three minutes, still stirring. Cut the ends off six or seven hard-boiled Eggs, stand them up in the dish, pour the sauce round, garnish them with crouton’s of fried bread, and serve. See Eig. 698. (4) Indian.—Boil hard four or five Eggs ; when cold, peel and cut them in halves. Peel and slice a moderate-sized onion, put it in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry until nicely browned; then remove it, and mix in with the butter 1 table- spoonful each of ground onions and curry-powder, and a small clove of garlic, all finely minced. Stir these ingredients over THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Eggs—continued. Fig. 697. The Lightning Egg-beater (Wm. Poore and Co.).552 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. the fire for a few minutes until browned, then put in the Eggs, with nearly a breakfast-cupful of stock, season to taste with salt, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. When ready, turn the curry on to a hot dish, place the onions on the top, garnish with small squares of fried bacon, and serve. Devilled Egg's.—(1) Boil hard a sufficient quantity of Eggs; when cold, peel them, dip them first into beaten raw Egg, next into oil, and roll them in salt and a small quantity of cayenne. Make a little tray by twisting up the corners of half a sheet of oiled writing-paper, place the Eggs in it, put it upon a gridiron over a clear fire, and shake it about until the Eggs are quite hot. Meanwhile, make hot equal quantities of olive oil and chutney sauce. Place the Eggs on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Boil the Eggs till hard, peel off the shells, cut them in halves, and take out the yolks carefully without spoiling the whites. Lay the whites aside, and mash up the yolks to a smooth paste with creamed butter, salt, pepper, made mustard, and a very small quantity of vinegar. Fill the empty whites with the yolks, stand them in a baking-dish, and brown in a hot oven. Eggs a 1’Annecy.—Peel twelve hard-boiled Eggs, cut them in halves, and remove the yolks. Put 4oz. of chopped mushrooms in a stewpan with ^ table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion and about 2oz. of butter, and fry them until tender; then chop the yolks of the Eggs, and add them, also i table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two Eggs, moving the stewpan to the side of the fire. Cut six slices of bread without crusts to about -|in. in thickness, and again into two squares, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry a golden brown. Drain them, pile the mixture over, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Eggs a l’Aurore. — (1) Boil one dozen Eggs until hard, take off their shells, cut them in halves, remove the yolks, and rub these through a fine sieve. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan, with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of flour, a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and set it on the fire; simmer gently without boiling until thick, then throw in the whites of half the Eggs, previously chopped fine, and stir well. Put the remainder of the whites on a dish, pour over the mixture, put a little butter on this, and melt it with a salamander. When the butter is quite melted, serve, taking care to keep it very hot. (2) Peel twelve cold hard-boiled Eggs, cut them into halves, take the yolks out carefully so as not to break the whites, pound them, and mix with them three raw yolks, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, stir in sufficient cream to make it a stiff paste, and fill the whites of the Eggs with it. Butter the bottom of a baking-dish, spread a thin layer of the stuffing over it, arrange the whites on this with the rounded parts downwards, and put it in a moderate oven till hot. Brown under a salamander, dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Boil twelve Eggs until hard, and let them cool; then peel, and separate the yolks from the whites. Put the yolks into a mortar, add loz. of fresh butter, a seasoning of salt, nutmeg, and ground spice, and three raw yolks, and pound all together. Mince the whites, put them in a saute-pan with 1 pint of reduced bechamel sauce, and cook without boiling, but let them get firm. Place them on the dish, lay the pounded yolks on top, garnish with sippets of bread dipped in beaten Egg, put them in the oven to brown for about four minutes, and then serve. Eggs a la Bonne Femme.—(1) Peel two onions, slice them, fry brown in butter, then mix in 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Butter a dish, spread the onions over it, break over them the requisite number of Eggs, and place them in a bi’isk oven. When the Eggs are cooked, cover them with a layer of breadcrumbs fried in butter, and serve. (2) Cut two large onions in slices and fry them in 2oz. of butter, stirring frequently, so that they will not burn ; dredge in a good pinch of flour, moisten with | pint of cream or milk, and season with salt, pepper, and grated mitmeg. Break six Eggs, put the whites into a basin, and froth them; mix the Eggs —continued. yolks with the onions, and then add the whites, stirring well. Lay two pieces of white paper on the bottom of a baking- dish, butter them thoroughly, lay the Eggs on top, and set in the oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, turn them on to a hot dish, remove the papers, add to the Eggs 2 table- spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and serve. Eggs a la Bourgeoise.—Cut some thin slices of bread, trim off the crusts, lay them on a thickly-buttered dish, and cover them with thin slices of cheese. Beat well sufficient Eggs to cover the bread, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and pour them over the slices. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake till the Eggs are set. Serve while very hot, in the same dish. Eggs a la Creme.—Chop some cold chicken very fine, season to taste, put a little over the bottom of each com- partment of a poacher, depress it in the centre, break one Egg into each, and poach in water until quite set. Put them on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve with thick cream sauce. See Fig. 699. Eggs a la Ducliesse.—Put 4oz. of powdered sugar in a sauce- pan with | pint of water, a little lemon-peel, and a small stick of cinnamon, adding J teaspoonful of orange-flower water, and mix together. Beat the yolks of twelve Eggs with 1 pint of milk or cream, add this to the syrup with a very little salt, transfer the whole to a baking-dish, place it on the hot stove, and cook the contents for ten minutes, stirring briskly. When it forms a cream, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, remove the dish from the fire, place it on another dish, and serve. Eggs a l’ltalienne.—Boil some Eggs till hard, cut them in halves, take out the yolks, weigh them, put them in a mortar with an equal weight of butter, and pound along with a little breadcrumb soaked in milk or cream, chopped parsley, one anchovy, a little chopped onion, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put the mixture into a saucepan and cook to a thick paste, adding a little cream or gravy. Fill the cavities of the whites with this, and serve cold with a salad or hot in sauce, or on a puree of vegetables. Eggs a la Lyonnaise.—Put half-a-dozen Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil until hard. Peel and finely chop two moderate-sized onions, put them into a stewpan with butter, and fry until browned. Pour J pint of broth over the onions, season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, boil gently, and stir occasionally until reduced to a rather creamy thickness. Peel the hard-boiled Eggs and chop the whites. Put the latter into the sauce, boil up once, and then turn the whole on to a hot dish. Garnish with the yolks of the Eggs and small baked puff-paste cakes, and serve very hot. Eggs a la Maitre cl’Hotel.—(1) Boil six Eggs till hard, peel and cut them into quarters, arrange them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, put in some pieces of butter, sprinkle a little chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, pepper, and salt over them, and set the dish in a moderate oven till the butter is melted; turn the Eggs, and cook a few minutes longer, then take them out, and serve. (2) Make a white sauce with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and a small lump of butter; stir this over the fire till it boils, then add three sliced onions, and season with salt and pepper. When the onions are done, add more butter, the juice of one lemon, 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and six hard-boiled Eggs cut in slices. When the Eggs are hot, dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; then mix in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, and simmer by the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Boil six Eggs till hard, then peel and cut them into slices. Put jib.BOTTLES AND 1. —Goldwasser. i 2. —Absinthe. ■ 3. —Kummel. : 4. —CuRAgoA. lO FLASKS FOR LIQUEURS AND SPIRITS. 5. —Benedictine. 6. —Hollands. 7. —White CuRAgoA. 8. —Maraschino . 9. —Chartreuse. 10.—Highland Whisky.553 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. of butter broken into small pieces in with the milk, add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the sauce until the butter is melted, then put in the sliced Eggs and the strained juice of a lemon. When the Eggs are hot, turn them on to a dish, garnish with small croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (4) Boil the required quantity of Eggs till hard; when cold, peel and cut them in slices, being careful not to damage them. Prepare a white sauce, and mix with it J table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of finely- minced shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the slices of Eggs in the sauce and let them slowly get hot again. When ready, pile the Eggs on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Egg's a la Parisienne.—Take a little warmed half-glaze and pour it into as many dariole-moulds (which have been set on the ice) as may be required, and mask the whole of the insides of them with the glaze. Make a mince of equal parts of truffles, ham, or tongue, sprinkle it over the insides of the moulds so as to adhere to the glaze, and break an Egg into each one, taking care not to damage the yolk ; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put them in a low saucepan with boiling water to half their height; place the pan in the oven for five or six minutes to poach the Eggs, turn them out on to a dish, pour a little gravy seasoned with chopped parsley over them, and serve. Eggs a la Paysanne.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream into a dish, and place it on the fire; when its contents boil, break in twelve Eggs, season with salt and twelve whole peppers, and cook for ten minutes; then set it in the oven for three minutes, so that the Eggs get a golden colour, taking care that they do not harden. Remove them from the oven, place the dish on another, and serve. Eggs a la Polonaise. — Cut twelve hard-boiled Eggs in halves, separate the whites from the yolks, and pound the latter in a mortar, adding about loz. of butter, and salt, ground spice, and grated nutmeg to taste, also the yolks of five Eggs ; when well blended, without any lumps, strew over J table- spoonful of very finely-chopped parsley, and work in the whites of the five Eggs well beaten. Garnish the bottom of a baking-disli with this, laying it in about Jin. thick; also fill the whites of the hard-boiled Eggs with a part of it, and put them together, giving them the appearance of whole Eggs. Arrange these tastefully on top, set the dish in the oven, and brown slightly for about five minutes ; remove from the oven, lay the dish on another one, wipe the sides, and serve very hot. Eggs a la Post.—Well wash and scrape one carrot, and with a vegetable-cutter scoop out twelve round pieces ; place these in a saute-pan with 1 gill of white broth and 1 teaspoonful of butter, and cook them on the hot range for twenty minutes. Put twelve roasted and shelled chestnuts into the pian with the carrots, and boil. Remove the skin from two uncooked sausages, make twelve equal-sized balls out of the meat, place these on a tin plate, and bake in the oven for four minutes. Remove them, add to the carrots and chestnuts, season with salt and red pepper, add 1 gill of Madeira sauce, and cook for two minutes longer. Place J pint of hot puree of chestnuts in the centre of a large dish, arrange twelve fried Eggs over this, and equally divide the carrots, chestnuts, and sausage-balls in clusters round the dish. Pour the sauce with a spoon round the Eggs, but not over them, place on top of each Egg one thin slice of truffle cut with a tube, put the dish in the oven to heat for one minute, take it out, and" serve. Eggs a la Poulette.—Boil 4 pint of milk with a little chopped parsley, a small lump of butter, and 1 pinch of pepper and salt. Peel and cut in slices six hard-boiled Eggs, and put them in with the milk, also a few button-mushrooms. When the Eggs are hot, arrange them on a dish; thicken the sauce with arrowroot, pour it over them, and serve. Eggs a la Princesse.—Boil six Eggs for seven minutes, then plunge them into cold water for five minutes, shell them, and put them on a plate. Mince very fine half a small tin of pre- served mushrooms with two sprigs of parsley and one medium- sized shallot. Put loz. of good butter in a saucepan on the Eggs —continued. hot stove ; when melted, add the mushroom mixture, and cook rather slowly for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; add J pint of Madeira sauce, season with salt and pepper, and cook again slowly for ten minutes. Strain the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and set it aside to keep warm. Cut the six hard-boiled Eggs in halves, remove the entire yolks, and mash them thoroughly in a bowl, adding Joz. of butter and J pint of sweet cream. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, mix well together, and with this fill the twelve pieces of Egg-white. Lay them on a lightly- buttered dish, pour over the sauce, and put them in the oven for eight minutes before sending to table. Eggs a la Regence.—Cut ljoz. of salted pork or ham into five pieces, also cut one onion into small squares, and six medium-sized mushrooms, all of equal size; moisten with 1 table-spoonful of gravy, and cook for five minutes. When done, reduce the liquor after adding 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup. Break twelve Eggs into a dish, with loz. of warmed butter spread over the bottom, and set it in a moderate oven for five minutes; pour over the mushroom mixture, take off the fat, wipe the sides of the dish, and add six drops of tarragon vinegar. Place the dish on another, and serve. Eggs a la Reine.—Put eight Eggs into a stewpan of boiling water, and boil gently for five minutes ; take them out, strip off the shells, and plunge them into cold water. Put the flesh from a cooked fowl in a mortar, and pound it well, adding 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, rub this through a sieve into a saucepan, warm it, and if it is too thick, add a little cream. Put it on a dish, place the Eggs on it in a circle, with a small piece of tongue or truffle between them, and garnish the dish with croutons of fried bread. A rice border may be used, with the puree piled in the centre and garnished with the Eggs. Eggs au Soleil. -Break twelve Eggs into a frying-pan on the fire with 2 table-spoonfuls of lard, dropping them in carefully one by one, and cook for two minutes ; then take them up with a skimmer, and lay them carefully on a dry cloth. Have ready some frying-batter ; cut a piece of half- cooked bacon into small square pieces of about tin., mix them up with the batter, dip in the Eggs, one after the other, taking up with each one a piece of the bacon, and with the fingers drop them into very hot fat in a pan, and cook for two minutes. Take them up with a skimmer, lay them on a dry cloth to drain,' sprinkle over a little salt, place them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Eggs a la Sultana.—Put the yolks of three Eggs in a basin with 1J table-spoonfuls of olive oil and 1 table-spoonful of chutney, beat well, and turn it out on to a dish. Break six Eggs, one at a time, into a teacup, put them separately on the sauce, and set the dish in a moderate oven until the Eggs are set, but not over-done. Serve very hot on the same dish. Eggs a la Turque.—(1) Blanch and pound 4oz. of pistachio- nuts in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of milk to keep them from oiling, and put them into a lined stewpan with 1 dessert-spoonful of ground rice and the yolks of eight Eggs, adding also Jib. of caster sugar and a piece of stick cinnamon. Beat lightly until all are well mixed, pour in gradually lqt. of cream, and stir the mixture over the fire until thickened. Pour some syrup into a flat stewpan, break carefully a dozen new-laid Eggs in it, and poach them. Take the cinnamon out of the mixture, pour it on to a dish, place the poached Eggs round, garnish with macaroons soaked in brandy, and serve very hot. (2) Cook twelve Eggs, as for Eggs with Kidneys. Finely mince six fowl’s livers, toss them very gently but rapidly in a saucepan over a brisk fire for three minutes, with loz. of butter to moisten them; then with a spoon remove all the butter from the saucepan, and season the livers with salt and white pepper, adding J wineglassful of Madeira wine. Reduce the liquor to about one half, then add 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce, warm up again, pour over the Eggs, and serve. Eggs a la Valencienne.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of hot boiled rice into a saucepan, with J pint of hot tomato sauce, two mushrooms, one truffle cut into small pieces, and 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese ; season with554 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. salt and grated nutmeg, and cook on the hot stove for five minutes, stirring lightly with the spatula or kitchen-lmife. Remove the pan to the corner of the stove to keep warm. Put ijoz. of butter in a dish, set it on the hot stove to melt, break in twelve fresh Eggs, being careful not to injure the yolks, season with salt and pepper, and cook for two minutes. Arrange the rice mixture in four dome-shaped heaps, one at each end of the dish and one at each side, place the Eggs in the centre, and serve immediately. Egg's stuffed with Anchovies. —Remove the shells from some hard-boiled Eggs, chop off a thin slice from each end, cut them in halves, take out the yolk, and stand each half on its end on the dish in which they are to be served. For each Egg take one anchovy, remove the scales and bones, cut them up very fine, and mix with the yolks, previously crushed; put all into a saucepan with a little warm butter, and mix until the butter is thoroughly worked in. Put this into the whites, and serve with Dutch sauce poured over. Egg-ail cl-Aneliovy Croquettes.—Boil four Eggs until hard, throw them into cold water for a minute or two, and then peel and chop finely; put them into a basin with 1 table- spoonful of anchovy paste, and mash with the back of a wooden spoon until well mixed. Chop as finely as possible 2oz. of cold boiled tongue, mix it with the Eggs, and season to taste with pepper. No salt will be required, as the anchovy paste is very salt; but a small quantity of cayenne may be used if liked. Divide the mixture into small quantities, roll into croquettes or balls, dip these in well-beaten Egg, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put lib. or so of clarified fat or lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the croquettes and fry them for two or three minutes, or until lightly browned. Take them out with a slice, and put them on paper to drain ; arrange in a group on a hot dish with a folded napkin or a fancy- edged dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Egg-and-Anchovy Toast. — (l) Boil four Eggs till hard, let them get quite cold, take off the shells, and chop them. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, with 1 tea- spoonful of cornflour blended smooth in a little milk, 1 tea- spoonful each of anchovy sauce and vinegar, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and 1 pint of milk; stir over the fire till boiling, and then put in the chopped Eggs, stirring them well in. Toast three rounds of bread, butter them, spread the mixture over, and serve hot. (2) Put a small lump of butter in a saucepan, with 1 table- spoonful each of gravy and milk, and three raw Eggs, seasoning with pepper and salt; stir with a fork over a slow fire till the Eggs begin to get lumpy, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir till the Eggs are set. Toast three slices of bread, spread them with anchovy butter, lay the Eggs on the toast, and serve hot. Eggs and Artichokes.—Boil twelve artichoke-bottoms in water for half-an-hour, and hard-boil half the quantity of Eggs. Cut as many rounds of bread as there are artichoke-bottoms, making them about lin. larger in diameter; put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling, put in the rounds of bread and fry them until well browned. When cooked, drain the artichoke-bottoms, peel and cut the hard-boiled Eggs into halves, place an artichoke-bottom on each round of bread, and then half an Egg, the cut side downwards. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toast and Eggs tastefully on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Eggs with Asparagus.—(1) Chop some asparagus-tops into small pieces about the size of peas and boil them; take them out, put into another saucepan with a little butter, chives, and a small quantity of parsley, set the pan over a rather slow fire, add a little water, flour, and salt and sugar to taste, and let them cook until quite done. Take them out, arrange on a dish with a few Eggs poured over them, and season with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put the dish on a hot stove, with a salamander cook the Eggs, but keeping the yolks soft, and serve in the dish they were cooked in. (2) Beat ten Eggs, pour them into a stewpan with 3oz. of melted butter, and stir over a moderate fire till the Eggs begin to set; then move it from the fire, add £ teacupful'of cream, Eggs—continued. little bits of butter, and the required quantity of cooked asparagus-heads. Place all on a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Eggs in Aspic.—Fill a mould to one-third of its height with clear aspic jelly. When cold, arrange some slices of hard- boiled Eggs on the top, then three-parts fill it with more liquid jelly, and let this set; arrange a layer of Eggs as before, and fill to the top with more jelly. Let it set for twelve hours on ice if possible. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a dish, and serve. Eggs and Bacon.—See Bacon. Eggs-and-Bacon Pie.—Cold.—Put several thin rashers of bacon in a basin of water, and let them steep all night; on the following morning lay them in a pie-dish. Beat eight Eggs with 1 pint of cream, season them with salt and pepper, and pour them over the bacon; cover the pie with short-crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out, and leave till quite cold before serving. Egg Balls. —(1) Boil four Eggs in a saucepan of water for ten minutes, then plunge them into cold water. When cold, take them out, remove the shells, and separate the whites from the yolks. Put the yolks in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper, and pound well; then add the uncooked white of one Egg. Mix and shape into small balls, roll these in flour, and fry in butter until they are brown, taking care not to bum them. They are then ready to be used as a garnish, or to make a separate dish with mashed potatoes. (2) Slightly beat an Egg in a basin, and add a dust of pepper, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; mix these, then add sufficient flour to make a paste of such a consistency that it can be easily shaped by the hands into small balls. Put these when ready into boiling stock or broth, and boil very fast until they are set. They are then ready for irse. Egg Balls ill Baskets.—Remove the shells from three hard- boiled Eggs, cut a thin slice off each end so that they can stand upright, and cut the Eggs crosswise in halves. Remove the yolks, and stand the baskets thus made round the edge of a dish. Mix with the yolks 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked ham or tongue, add 1 teaspoonful of melted butter, and season with salt, pepper, and mustard; form this into balls the size of the original yolks, put them in the baskets, pour 1 breakfast- cupful of white sauce in the centre, and set the dish in the oven for a few minutes. Garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 700. Egg Balls in Caramel.—Bruise the yolks of twelve hard- boiled Eggs, sweeten them with powdered white sugar, mix with them three pounded almond macaroons and 1 gill of oream. Form small balls with this paste, dip them in caramel, and brown before serving. Egg Balls for Soup.—(1) Pound 1 teaspoonful of ham or tongue in a mortar, add the yolk of a hard-boiled Egg, a little boiled and finely-minced parsley, and a seasoning of grated nutmeg and cayenne. When well mixed, add the yolk of a raw Egg, and form the mass into small balls ; plunge these into a saucepan of boiling milk, poach for two or three minutes, add them to the hot soup for which they are intended, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of two hard-boiled Eggs in a mortar with half their bulk of boiled and mashed potato, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, the uncooked yolk of an Egg, a little seasoning of salt and cayenne, and pound them well. Dip the hands in flour, and form the paste into small balls; put these into a pan with boiling water, and when they have poached for a minute or two take them out, drop them into boiling soup, and serve. (3) Whip three Eggs and £ pint of milk, and mix with them 2 tablo-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, 1 saltspoonful555 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Eggs —continued. of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a basin, pour in the mixture, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir it over the fire until as thick as custard, then move it from the fire. Pour boiling soup into a tureen, take up the mixture in small quantities with a table-spoon, and drop it into the soup. Serve very hot. (4) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, mix with it three well-beaten Eggs, stir in sufficient breadcrumbs to make it consistent, and season with salt and grated nutmeg. Shape the mixture into small balls, and throw these into a saucepan of slightly-salted water. Take them out when firm, drain them, and serve in hot soup or broth. Eggs in Bedgowns.—Select about half-a-dozen sound potatoes, as near of a size as possible, thoroughly wash them, peel them neatly, and put in the oven to bake. When quite done, take them out, cut a hole in their sides, through which scrape out all the insides, pour an Egg without breaking the yolk ' into each, adding a little nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and replace them in the oven. When the Eggs are set, dust the potatoes over with breadcrumbs, and serve. Egg-and-Beetroot Salad.—Peel and slice some cooked beet- roots, put them in a pan with a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them about over a brisk fire until hot. Mean- while, in another pan poach some new-laid Eggs, and trim them. Pile the slices of beetroot in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round with the Eggs, dredge them lightly with pepper, squeeze the juice of a lemon over, and serve at once. This makes a very good breakfast dish, and takes but little time in its preparation. Egg Boucliees.—Fill a few patty-pans, large enough to hold an Egg, with puff paste, and bake. Take them out, remove the insides, and put in each an Egg seasoned with salt and pepper. Replace them in the oven to set, and serve. Egg Bread.—See Bread. Eggs and Bread. -Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a basin with 1 teacupful of cream, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, put a plate over the basin, and place it in the oven. When the breadcrumbs have absorbed the cream, break six Eggs over them, and beat well. Put lib. or 21b. of butter in a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, and then pour in the mixture. When set and browned on one side, turn it over and brown the other. When cooked, turn the mixture on to a hot dish with a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin, and serve. Egged Bread.—Cut twelve rounds of bread 2in. in diameter without crusts, place them in a dish, spread a little butter over each, and brown them in the oven for one minute. Break four Eggs in a basin, add 1 pinch of chopped parsley, | pinch of chives, 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and a very little pepper, and beat sharply for four minutes ; then add the twelve pieces of browned bread, and mix well. Put 4oz. of clarified butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove, and heat thoroughly; then fry one piece of bread at a time for one-minute-and-a-half on each side. As they are done, with the aid of a slice lay them on a hot dish with a folded ■ napkin over it, and keep the dish in a warm place. Repeat this process with the others, and serve when all are ready. Egg Canapes.—Put four Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil for ten minutes or until quite hard ; then remove the shells, cut the Eggs in halves, remove the yolks, and chop them up. Soak two anchovies, dry them, remove the bones, and chop them up with three truffles and six capers; mix in 1 the chopped yolks, add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and ' cayenne, and 1 teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Fill the halves of Eggs with this mixture, place each one on a piece of fried bread, heat them in the oven, and serve very hot. Eggs in Cases.—(1) Make some paper cases about 3in. square, butter them well inside, half fill them with sifted breadcrumbs seasoned with chopped parsley, a small quantity of cayenne and salt, stick small bits of butter over the breadcrumbs, break an Egg into each, and add breadcrumbs seasoned as before till the cases are full. Put them into an oven or on a gridiron over a clear fire for three minutes, and serve very hot. (2) Butter some small paper cases or moulds, sprinkle pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley at the bottom of Eggs —continued. each, drop in an Egg from the shell, sprinkle crumbs of bread and grated cheese on the top, add a small piece of butter, and stand them in a hot oven for three or four minutes to set the Eggs. Stand the cases on a dish, and serve. Eggs and Caviare Canapes.—Cut a French roll in slices of a moderate thickness, and butter them ; spread over each a layer of Russian caviare, and squeeze over a little lemon-juice. Boil some Eggs until hard, and when cold peel them and cut into slices ; lay a slice of Egg on each slice of roll, and press them slightly together. Put the canapes on a dish with a folded napkin or a dish-paper, garnish them with green parsley, and serve. A very small quantity of finely-minced parsley strewn over the tops of the Eggs will be found an improvement. Eggs with Cheese.—(1) Put nine well-beaten Eggs into a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese and l-j- table- spoonfuls of butter; season with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire till the cheese is melted. Toast some slices of bread, cut off the crusts, butter them, put them on a dish, pour the cheese mixture over, and serve. (2) Beat six Eggs, and add to them 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Melt jib. of butter in a stewpan, pour in the Eggs, and stir over a slow fire till thick, but do not let the butter boil; add 3oz. of Gruyere cheese cut in dice, and stir for two minutes long-er. Pour all on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, a,nd serve. (3) Grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese on to a dish, place it over a slow fire, add | wineglassful of white wine, a little each of chopped parsley, chopped chives, pepper, and grated nutmeg, also 2oz. of butter. Stir thoroughly while cooking, and as the cheese melts, break in twelve Eggs, and cook for five minutes longer. Surround the dish with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, set it on another dish, and serve very hot. Egg Clieese-cakes. —Boil hard six Eggs, lay them in cold water for a few minutes, and then peel them. Rub them with fioz. of butter through a fine wire sieve, and mix in 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants, two crumbled stale sponge cakes, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, moistening with the beaten yolks of two or three Eggs and J wineglassful of brandy. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with puff paste, trim, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn them out of the pans, and serve either hot or cold. Eggs with Cheese and Parsley. -Grate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese, and finely chop a few sprigs of parsley. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, put in the parsley, and fry it for a few minutes ; then add the cheese and 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the cheese is melted ; break in one Egg, stir it well, then add another Egg, and so on until eight have been used. Turn the mixture on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Eggs in Cocottes.—Take some small china cups (called cocottes), put a little butter in each, and break in a new- laid Egg; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, set them on hot ashes, and salamander the tops until the Eggs are done and quite soft. Serve in the cups. Egg-cordial ;Nip.—Put the yolk (unbroken) of an Egg into a wineglass, fill up with noyeau, lemon-cordial, and peach- brandy, in equal parts, and serve. Eggs and Cream.—Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, and boil it until it is reduced to J pint. Beat ten Eggs, mix them with the cream, and season with salt and pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire until the Eggs are curdled; then turn it on to a hot dish, strew a small quantity of grated nutmeg on the top, brown under a salamander, and serve. Egg-and-Cream Pudding.—Beat six Eggs to a stiff froth, then mix with them 1 pint of thick cream, and sweeten to taste with oaster sugar; continue to beat the mixture for twenty minutes. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over it, garnish with stewed fruit, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 556 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dx., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. Egg Cromeskies.—Boil six Eggs till hard, let them get cold, and peel off the shells. Mix together 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, 3 dessert-spoonfuls each of chopped parsley and onion, 1J teaspoonfuls of mixed herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and sprinkle this over six slices of lean bacon, each slice 3in. wide and 8in. long. Place a hard- boiled Egg on each, roll the bacon round the Egg, and fasten with pieces of string or small skewers. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour, and serve hot. Egg Croquettes.—Boil eighteen Eggs till hard, remove the shells, and separate the whites from the yolks. Chop the whites into small pieces, and rub the yolks of six of the Eggs through a fine hair sieve. Put two onions cut into small pieces in a frying-pan with 4oz. of butter, and fry them, but not brown ; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix thoroughly, pour in sufficient boiling milk to just moisten the whole, and season with a little salt and pepper. When the sauce is ready, put in the six yolks and the whites, stir well, and let the mixture cool. Form it into croquettes, spread these over with breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling fat to a light brown, and serve. The remainder of the yolks can be used for other purposes. Eggs in Crusts.—(1) Cut out several thin rounds of bread 3in. in diameter, and with a small tin cutter, ljin. in diameter, cut the centre out of each round, leaving an unbroken ring. Melt a sufficient quantity of butter in a frying-pan, put in the rings, and fry them until lightly browned. Butter a dish, lay the rings in it, turn a raw Egg into each ring, being careful not to break the yolks, baste them with a few table- spoonfuls of sour cream, and dust over a small quantity of salt. Cover the dish, put it in the oven, and leave it until the whites are set, but they must not be browned. When cooked, lift the Eggs in their rings carefully out of the baking-dish, using a slice for the purpose, and lay them on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with watercress, and serve. (2) Cut off some slices of bread from the bottom of a stale loaf, and shape them quite round; then, with a small biscuit-cutter cut half-way through the centre, and scoop out the middle, leaving a round cavity large enough to hold one Egg. Beat up some Eggs with a little milk, dip in the pieces of bread, and fry them in hot fat. Cook 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms in a little chicken broth. Poach as many Eggs as there are slices of bread; arrange the pieces of bread, with a poached Egg in each, on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. Egg Cup-puddings with Game Broth.—Put 11 pints of game broth into a saucepan, with a small quantity each of coriander and cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon, and boil till well infused. Take the mixture off the fire, remove the lemon- peel, mix in the beaten yolks of six Eggs, beat thoroughly, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into small cups. Stand the cups in a stewpan, with boiling water to about three-parts their height, put on the lid, with some live embers on it, and set it over a slow fire. Boil 1 pint of game broth, and thicken it with the beaten yolks of two Eggs. When cooked, turn the cream out of the cups on to a hot and rather deep dish, pour the thickened broth over them, and serve. Egg Drinks.—(1) These may be made in various ways, such as : Beaten up with a little milk and brandy, and put in tea or coffee in place of milk; or, beaten up in a cup, and hot tea or coffee poured over, stirring well. Great care must be taken to prevent curdling, which can be done if the Egg is well beaten before being used, and the liquid which is poured over several degrees under boiling-point. (2) Put Jib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then take it off and let it get cold, and mix with it a liqueur- glassful of cura9oa and i pint of sherry. Beat the white of an Egg to a stiff froth, mix it in well with the other ingredients, and pour all into a glass jug. Stand this on ice till very cold, and serve. Egg Dumplings (German).—(1) Dissolve loz. of dry yeast in \ pint of warm milk; melt 3oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 1J table-spoonfuls of sugar; beat two Eggs well, mix all the ingredients together, sift in gradually lib. of flour, and work the whole to a smooth, spongy dough; Eggs —continued. put a cloth over this, and set it in a warm place. When well risen, turn the dough on to a paste-board over which plenty of flour has been dusted, divide it into small, equal-sized pieces, roll these into dumplings, and put them in a warm place to rise again. Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 pint of milk, and place it over the fire until boiling; then put in the dumplings, cover with the lid, and set the pan in the oven until the moisture is nearly dry and the dumplings lightly browned. When cooked, take them out of the pan, carefully separating them if stuck together, lay them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and garnish with stewed fruit. Serve very hot. (2) Warm 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, beat it until creamy with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and beat in the yolks of three Eggs. Dissolve J teacupful of yeast in 1 teacupful of warm milk, and mix it with the above; then stir in gradually lib. of finely-sifted flour. Beat the mixture well, cover it, and put it in a warm place. When the dough has well risen, put it on a well-floured board, divide it into small quantities, and roll these lightly. Leave the dumplings to rise again. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a stew- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and stir over the fire until dissolved; then pour in J pint of milk, boil it, put in the dumplings, place the lid on the stewpan, and set it in the oven. When the dumplings are cooked, they should be lightly browned and the moisture almost entirely evaporated. Put them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve with sweet sauce. (3) Beat two Eggs with J pint of milk, and stir in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter. Put a saucepan of salted water over the fire, and when it boils drop the batter into it in flakes, using a knife constantly dipped in water for the purpose; boil the flakes until they float, then drain them. Put a good- sized lump of butter into a stewpan, and make it hot; then put in the flakes or dumplings, brown them lightly, add two beaten Eggs, and stir over the fire until the Eggs have thickened, but without letting them boil. Turn the dumplings on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Put 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of flour in a basin, make a bay in the centre, and scatter a pinch of salt into it; beat one Egg with 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and stir the beaten Egg gradually into the flour till it is all used up. Boll the dough out rather thin, and form it into dumplings. Put a saucepan with some chicken broth on the fire, boil it, plunge in the dumplings, put on the lid, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take them out, drain, and serve hot. Egg’s Filagramme. Prepare a syrup with 41b. of powdered white sugar and 1 pint of white wine, and clarify it with white of Egg. Beat up eight Eggs until light, pour through a colander into the syrup over the fire, and cook a very short time. Serve hot or cold. Eggs served, with. Fine Herbs. —Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire until well mixed; then add £ table-spoonful each of finely-chopped chives and chopped parsley, pour in three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of white wine, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently for five minutes, stirring continually. Boil half-a-dozen fresh Eggs until hard, and throw them into cold water for a minute; then peel them, cut a thin slice off the top of each Egg, so that they will stand up, arrange them on a dish, and pour the hot sauce over them. Garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, or sippets of toast, and serve. Eggs stuffed with Fisli.—Remove the bones and skin from any kind of cold cooked fish and chop it finely. Boil six Eggs until hard, leave them until cold, then cut them length- wise into halves; scoop the yolks out of the Eggs, taking care not to break the whites, and fill the whites wfith the fish. Put the yolks into a basin, and mix with them 1J teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1J teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and 1 scant table-spoonful of chilli vinegar; beat these until well mixed, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Lay the Eggs on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, keeping their cut parts upwards; put a small portion of the mixture on each, piling it up, and serve. Egg Flip.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of milk in a saucepan, and boil it. Beat the white of an Egg in a basin until stiff,TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 557 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs— continued. then dust over a little pepper. Pour the milk while boiling over it, stir well, add sugar to sweeten, and serve. A little brandy added is an improvement. (2) Put 1 gill of beer into a saucepan with three well- whisked Eggs and 2oz. of sugar, mix well, and set the pan on the fire ; when nearly boiling, add another gill of beer, with a little grated nutmeg and ground ginger, and serve. A little grated lemon-peel may be added. (3) Pour lqt. of ale into a saucepan over the fire to get warm; beat four Eggs with Jib. of moist sugar and 2 wine- glassfuls of rum, adding 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or ground ginger. When the ale is on the point of boiling, pour it into a large jug, and pour the Egg mixture into another jug, and turn it from one jug to another till smooth as cream. (4) Pour 1 pint of ale into a saucepan on the stove, to get hot; put 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sugar and the yolks of two Eggs into a large bowl, and beat to a cream. When the ale is hot, but not boiling, pour it gently into the bowl over the beaten Eggs and sugar, add the whites, whip till the flip is smooth, and serve in a jug. (5) Beat two Eggs with 3oz. of sugar; make 1 pint of mild porter hot, but do not let it boil, and pour it in gradually over the Eggs, beating well; then add 1 wineglassful of gin and a small quantity of either grated nutmeg or ginger, and serve. A good way of mixing the Eggs with the beer is to pour them from one basin to another. (6) Beat six Eggs in a basin, add Jib. of powdered loaf sugar, stir well, and pour in lqt. of boiling water, adding about 1 breakfast-cupful at a time. When thoroughly mixed, pour in 1 pint or so of brandy and 1 gill of rum, and serve hot in glasses. Egg and Flour Batter Pudding (German).—Put 1 break- fast-cupful of flour into a basin, and mix with it four beaten Eggs, a small qirantity of salt, and add more flour to make a thin batter. Mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls each of well-washed currants and raisins, a few table-spoonfuls of sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of spice. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter into a frying-pan, melt it, put in the batter, and place it over the fire until set. Break the batter into small pieces, and let it set again; when it is brown on one side, turn it over and brown the other. When cooked, turn the batter out on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Eg'g Foam Sauce.—Put 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot into an enamelled saucepan with three Eggs, J teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and ljoz. of sugar, adding gradually 1 teacupful of water and 2 teaspoonfuls of maraschino, rum, or brandy to flavour. Place the pan over a good fire, beating continually until the froth rises very high. The sauce is then ready for serving. Eggs Fried in Batter.—Poach six or eight Eggs in water, but do not let them get hard, and put them on a folded napkin to drain and cool. Put 11b. or so of fat into a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry some parsley in it. Dip each Egg with a large spoon singly in batter, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and fry till brown. Put the fried parsley on a dish, arrange the Eggs on it, squeeze over lemon-juice, and serve. Eggs Fried in Brown Butter.—(1) Break the Eggs gently on a plate, taking care not to injure the yolks, and dredge them with salt and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying- pan over a brisk fire ; when turning brown, move it to the side. Put 2oz. more of butter into another frying-pan, and place it over the fire until hot; then put the Eggs in carefully, so as not to break the yolks, and spread the browned butter over them. When the whites are set, turn the Eggs out on to a hot dish, sprinkle a small quantity of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon-juice over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve ; or they may be served on hot buttered toast. (2) Brown Jib. of butter in a frying-pan over a slow fire. Break six Eggs in a plate, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, pour the liquid butter on them, then turn all quickly back into the frying-pan ; fry for two minutes one side, then turn and fry the other side for two minutes. Dish, and serve, with 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar reduced to half its original quantity poured over them. Egg Flutters.— (1) Put four Eggs into a saucepan of water, boil for fifteen minutes, take them out, plunge into cold water for Eggs—continued. a few minutes, and take off the shells ; cut the Eggs lengthwise in halves, remove the yolks, mix them up with a little potted meat, replace them, put the two halves together, pressing them firmly, and then cut into quarters with a very sharp knife. Dip these in batter, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them ; drain them, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 701). (2) Cut three hard-boiled Eggs lengthwise in halves, and take out the yolks. Chop small equal quantities of cold ham and chicken and pound them in a mortar with the yolks, add two or three drops of anchovy sauce, and season with salt and pepper. When well mixed, fill the hollows of the halves of whites with the yolk mixture, and put two halves together, working the remainder of the mixture (if any) into an Eg'g shape. Mix in a basin 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne, the white of one Egg, and a few drops of salad-oil; when smooth, dip the Eggs in one at a time, and fry them in boiling fat till brown. Put a folded napkin on a dish, arrange the Eggs on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Mix the yolks of twelve Eggs in a dish (a silver one if possible) that can be put in the oven, and add 1 table-spoonful of brandy and 1 pinch of salt; cook for five minutes in a hot oven, then let them cool. Cut the preparation into twelve thin slices, dip each piece into a light frying-batter, and fry them in very hot fat for about two minutes; then lift them out with a skimmer, lay them on a cloth to drain, and serve on a folded napkin laid on a hot dish, with a garnish of fried parsley. (4) Hard boil an Egg, peel off the shell, cut it lengthwise in halves, and remove the yolk. Put this into a mortar with one blanched bitter and two sweet almonds and a very little caster sugar; pound to a paste, add three drops of brandy, and replace it in the white, pressing the two halves together, and with a sharp knife cutting the Egg into slices. Dip these in batter, and fry to a golden colour in oil. Take them out, drain, and put them on a napkin laid on a dish, dust over with sugar, and serve with wine sauce in a sauceboat, or with wine in a decanter. Egg's with Game Consomme.—Prepare some good game con- somme without sugar. Take as many Eggs as are required, and to every yolk use 1 breakfast-cupful of consomme, which will, when worked together, make a thick cream; or, if the Eggs are preferred pretty solid, use double the quantity of yolks. Boil this mixture in small jars in the bain-marie, and when they are done turn them out on to a dish, and serve with more of the consomme, thickened with the yolks of Eggs, poured over. Eggs in German Style.—Peel six hard-boiled Eggs, and cut them into thin slices. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, with 1 table-spoonful of butter, a little chopped parsley, and a pinch of pepper and salt. When this boils, put in the Eggs, simmer for ten minutes, dish, and serve. Eggs au Gratin.—(1) Put eight Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil until hard; take them out when cool, and remove the shells. Cut the Eggs up into slices; put these at the bottom of a stewpan and pour over them a few table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce reduced with a little gravy, place the lid on the pan, and set it in the bain-marie, or in another larger saucepan half filled with boiling water. Boil about 4 handfuls of finely-minced nouilles in a saucepan with salted water ; then take them out, drain, and return them to the saucepan. Add seasoning, Jib. of butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and 1 teacupful of grated cheese (Parmesan for preference). Mix well, pour about three-parts of the558 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see tender their special heads. Eggs —continued. mixture on a dish, make a bay in the centre, pour in the Egg mixture, and over these the remainder of the nouille mixture. Smooth the surface with a knife or spatula, sprinkle with a little finely-grated Parmesan cheese, then pour over a small quantity of melted butter, bake for a-quartcr-of-an-hour, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of three Eggs in a basin; mix in 1 tea- cupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, a little parsley, one shallot, and one anchovy, all chopped very fine, also salt and pepper to season. Put a little butter in a warm dish, pour in the mixture, and place in an oven until lightly browned; then put six Eggs, broken separately in a cup, on top, and bake again for two or three minutes, until the whites are set. When done, take it out, and serve. (3) Mix together in a bowl 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, three chopped, boned anchovies, 1 pinch of parsley, 1 pinch of chervil, one chopped shallot, the yolks of three Eggs, salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg. Turn the mixture into a baking-dish, with loz. of butter spread at the bottom, set it on a slow fire for two minutes, break over six Eggs, and cook for five minutes in a hot oven. Remove it from the oven, lay the dish on top of another, and serve immediately. A silver dish should be used if possible. (4) Boil some Eggs till hard, and when cool, peel them and cut them in slices. Thickly butter a dish, lay the slices of Egg on it, and strew over them grated Parmesan cheese; season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and cover with a layer of breadcrumbs; put a few small bits of butter on the top, and set the dish in the oven. When well browned on the top, serve in the same dish. Egg'S with Gravy.—Peel six or eight hard-boiled Eggs, put them in a saucepan, cover with highly-seasoned broth, and simmer for five minutes. Have ready six or eight slices of toasted bread, put them on a dish, stand the Eggs on them, pour a little of the gravy round, and serve. Egg Gruel.—Beat the yolk of an Egg in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of sugar; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stir it over the fire till thick, but not boiling, and flavour with grated lemon or nutmeg. Beat the white of the Egg to a stiff foam, mix it in with the gruel, and serve immediately. Egg Hot.—Pour 1 pint of light dinner-ale into a perfectly clean saucepan over the fire, and boil it. Beat two Eggs with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and mix in 1 wineglassful of rum and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the Eggs are well beaten, whisk in gradually the boiling ale, and serve. Egg Jelly.—Put loz. of gelatine into 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand for an hour to dissolve ; then put it into a saucepan with the thin yellow rind of one lemon and 4oz. of loaf sugar. Let it get very hot, but not quite boiling, and add the well-beaten yolks of five Eggs, and the strained juice of one lemon. Stir well, and strain through a piece of muslin into a mould damped with cold water. Put it away till quite cold, and turn it out on a glass dish before serving. Fig. 702. Eggs in Jelly. Eggs in Jelly.—(1) Boil ten or a dozen Eggs until hard, peel them, and cut them lengthwise into halves. Damp with cold water as many patty-pans as there are halves of Eggs, put half an Egg in each pan, and pour over sufficient savoury jelly to cover it; lay a thin slice of ham on the top of each, and leave them till quite cold and the jelly set. Turn the jelly out on to an ornamental dish, garnish with a few sprays of parsley, and serve. Eggs —continued. (2) Boil hard twelve or fourteen Eggs, peel off the shells, arrange them in a mould, fill up with any rich jelly, let it set, turn out on to a dish-paper on a fancy dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 702. Eggs with. Kidneys.—Butter a dish, and break into it twelve fresh Eggs; or, if preferred, use six small dishes, breaking two Eggs into each one ; then cook them on the stove for two minutes. Cut six sheep’s kidneys in halves, and broil or stew them, according to taste; then add them to the Eggs, and serve with pint of hot perigueux sauce poured over. Egg Lemonade.—Put the strained juice of half a lemon into a tumbler with loz. of powdered white sugar, the white of one Egg, and a small quantity of crushed ice. Stir well for two or three minutes, add a little ice-water, and drink at once through straws. The well-beaten yolk cf the Egg may also be added with the white. Egg Marmalade.—(1) Chop ilb. of citron, put it in a basin with 1 teacupful of orange marmalade, jib. of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded with a few drops of rose-water, pour in 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and stir the mixture until quite smooth. Beat the yolks of ten Eggs with the whites of four, stir them into the mixture, sweeten with caster sugar, pour it into a saucepan, and stir it over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but without letting it boil, or the Eggs will curdle. Turn the marmalade into a dome-shaped mould, and stand it in a cool place or on ice until quite cold. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, then turn the contents on to a fancy dish, and garnish with bunches of fresh or preserved fruits. (2) Put jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in an enamelled saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil until reduced to a moderately thick syrup ; then take the pan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Separate the yolks and whites of ten Eggs; stir the yolks gradually, without beating, in with the syrup, set the pan over the fire again, and stir the contents until boiling and thick; then add a few drops of orange-flower water. Turn the marmalade into a mould, and keep it on ice or in a cool place for several hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a glass or fancy china dish. Egg-and-Milk Pudding.—Beat four Eggs with 1 pint of milk; stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a thin batter, and add a small quantity of salt. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a shallow stewpan, make it hot, then pour in the batter. When it begins to set, break it into small pieces, let it set again, and continue frying it until lightly browned ; then turn it on the other side. When the batter is browned on both sides, turn it on to a dish, garnish with a salad of vegetables, and serve. Egg and Milk with Hum.—Beat an Egg till thoroughly mixed but not frothed, then stir in gradually with it 1 pint of boiling milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, and 1 wine- glassful of rum. Serve very hot. This will be found both agreeable and comforting, and an effectual cure for a cold. It is sometimes known as hen’s milk. Egg Mincemeat.—Boil six Eggs till hard ; when cold, peel and cut them into small pieces, mix with them double their quantity of finely-minced beef-suet, lib. of well-washed and dried currants, the grated peel of one large lemon, ^lb. each of finely-shred candied orange- and citron-peel, sugar to taste, and a small quantity each of mace, nutmeg, and salt. Moisten the mixture with 3 wiueglassfuls of sweet wine, stirring well; then pack it into small jars, cover these tightly, and stow away in a cool cupboard. Eggs and Minced Meat.—(1) Pound 8oz. of cold cooked chicken, ham, or veal to a smooth paste, add 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter and a little chopped parsley, moisten with beaten Egg, taking care not to have it too soft to shape, put it in a frying-pan, and warm. Form the mixture in a flat circle on a hot dish, and keep it hot in the oven. Poach four Eggs, put them in the centre of the dish, and garnish with toast cut into triangular shapes. (2) Prepare a larger quantity of the minced meat as for No. 1, put a round lin. deep on a dish, over that a smaller round, then hard-boiled Eggs (with half the whites cut off, leaving the yolks intact in the other halves) round the edge,559 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. and on the top of the smaller round. Garnish -with sprigs of parsley placed between the Eggs, and serve. Egg Mince Pies.—Butter some small patty-pans, line these with a good short-paste, and put a little Egg mincemeat in each ; cover with more paste, moistening and trimming at the edges, then bake. Take them out of the tins, and put them on a dish over a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, sift over caster sugar, and serve. Egg-and-Mushroom Ragout.— (1) Slice five or six mush- rooms and one onion, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and | saltspoonful of chopped garlic, and fry until lightly browned ; dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir for a minute or two, then pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful each of clear broth and white wine, and boil gently until the liquor is reduced to one-half its original quantity, stirring continually. Boil eight Eggs until hard, peel them, cut the whites into small squares, and the yolks into slices. Put the Eggs in the sauce, and boil for a minute; then turn the whole out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve very hot. (2) Remove the peel from lib. of selected mushrooms, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and salt and pepper to taste, and cook until quite tender; then lay them in a circle on a dish and cover over with raw Eggs, taking care not to break the yolks. Sprinkle over a few dried breadcrumbs, dust over with pepper and salt, and put the dish into a hot oven for four or five minutes for the Eggs to set. Garnish with croutons of fried bread and sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Eggs in a Nest.—(1) Boil seven or eight Eggs hard, and when quite cold cut the whites from the yolks in long thin strips; put these into a very moderately-heated oven to warm, with a bit of butter over them, and baste with the butter from time to time while they are getting' warm. Chop up sufficient cold cooked meat of fowl, ham, tongue, or any cold firm fish to fill a breakfast-cup, and pound it in a mortar, adding a Fig. 703. Eggs in a Nest. seasoning of pepper and salt, and the yolks of the hard-boiled Eggs. When these are all mixed and pounded into a smooth paste, form it into small Egg-shaped balls, heap these in the middle of a dish, and arrange the shreds of hard-boiled white of Egg round them in the manner of a nest. Have ready i pint of butter sauce with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy mixed with it, pour it hot over the nest, and serve. See Fig. 703. (2) Peel off the shells of six hard-boiled Eggs, take out the yolks without breaking them, cut the whites into thin slices, mix with them either finely-minced cold chicken, ham, or salmon, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Pile this mixture in a ring or border on a plate, put the yolks in the centre, and set the plate in a steamer till the preparation is hot; pour thick white sauce round the edge of the plate till it reaches to half the height of the nest, and serve, with white sauce in a sauceboat. Egg-Nog. (1) Separate the whites and yolks of twelve Eggs, put the latter into a basin with -3-lb. of powdered loaf sugar, place the basin on the stove, and whisk well to a smooth cream. Remove the basin from the stove, pour in 3qts. of boiling cream or milk, stir well, add 1 pint of brandy, | pint of rum, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat the whites to a froth, and stir in lightly ilb. of powdered loaf sugar and 2oz. of vanilla sugar. Put the two mixtures together, grate over a little more nutmeg, or sprinkle over a little cinnamon, and serve hot. (2) Beat the yolks of six Eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, add the beaten whites by degrees, 3 teacupfuls For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Eggs- continued. each of wine and milk, stir well, and serve with nutmeg grated on the top. Brandy can be used instead of wine, or the wine can be flavoured with vanilla. (3) Beat the yolk of an Egg till light, add and beat in 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and by degrees 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Beat the white of the Egg to a stiff froth with £ pint of milk or cream, stir it in, and serve. A little nutmeg grated over gives it a tasty flavour. (4) Put the yolks of three Eggs into a bowl, add 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and beat together, adding by degrees 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Continue beating till the sugar is dissolved, then stir in gradually 3 wineglassfuls of brandy, lj wineglassfuls of rum, and 1 tumblerful of milk. Beat the whites of the three Eggs to a very stiff froth, add them to the- other mixture, and serve at once. If this be made in summer time, 5 tumblerful of pounded ice may be put in before adding the frothed white of Egg. Egg-and-Onion Stew.—Cut three onions in slices, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, drain them, and brown in a stewpan with l^oz. of butter; add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and 1J breakfast- cupfuls of broth, and stir over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Cut six hard-boiled Eggs in slices, mix them in with the onions, dish, and serve. Egg-and-Orange Butter Cakes.—Boil six Eggs till hard, plunge them into cold water until cool, peel, put them in a mortar with 3oz. of butter and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and pound to a smooth paste; then turn this into a basin. Blanch 3oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound also to a paste, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower water to keep them from oiling. Mix the Egg-paste with the almond-paste in the mortar, add the juice of four or five oranges, and pound the whole together. Rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Put lib. of flour in a basin with lib. of butter, and rub it in until smooth, using- the hands ; then mix with it lib. of caster sugar, the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, one well-beaten Egg, and sufficient milk to form a thick paste. Dredge flour over the table or board, lay the paste on it, roll it out very thinly, stamp it into small round cakes with a tin cutter, lay these on a baking-tin, and bake them in a brisk oven. Let them get cold, pile some of the orange butter on each, arrange them on a fancy dish, and serve. Egg Patties.—(1) Peel and mince six hard-boiled Eggs, mix them with the crumb of a French roll soaked in milk, also 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and a seasoning of finely-chopped parsley pepper, and salt. Beat well, adding sufficient milk to form a liquid paste. Lino some buttered patty-pans with puff paste, fill them with the Egg mixture, and bake in a quick oven. When done, turn the patties out of the pans, arrange them on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Peel and finely mince twelve hard-boiled Eggs, add to them an equal bulk of washed and dried currants, butter, sugar, and bread, in equal proportions, season with pounded mace and cinnamon, and mix to a paste with Madeira wine. Line several buttered patty-pans with puff paste; put 1 table- spoonful of the mixture in each, cover with more paste, pressing the edges firmly together, and bake in a quick oven. Turn them out of the tins when done, arrange them on a dish with a cloth over it, and serve hot or cold. Egg-Powder Cake.—Mix together ilb. of butter, a quartern of flour, fib. of washed and dried currants, 2 teaspoonfuls of lard, 41b. of sugar, three Eggs, and two packets of Egg- powder ; when thoroughly mixed, add a little grated nutmeg, mixed spices, candied citron-peel, and sufficient milk to make the paste of the proper consistency. Bake in a buttered tin. Egg Pudding. -Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a basin, and mix in 4|-oz. each of sifted pounded loaf sugar and flour. In the meantime, put 4£oz. of butter into a saucepan with another breakfast-cupful of milk, bring it to the boil, stir in the flour mixture, and let it remain over the fire till thick; then pour it into a basin, and let it stand until quite cold. Work in the yolks of nine Eggs together with -I3-0Z. of blanched and pounded almonds, and when thoroughly incorporated, add the whites of the nine Eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the pudding into a buttered basin or mould, so as to fill it, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and560 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs—continued. boil continually for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Turn the pudding- out on to a dish, pour over white wine or sweet sauce, and serve. Egg Puffs.—Soften 1 table-spoonful of butter to a creamy consistence by working it with a fork ; then add three Eg-gs beaten to a froth, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 6 table-spoon- fuls of flour. Beat all these ingredients together until they foam, then put them into buttered earthen cups or small tin pans, and bake in a hot oven for about half-an-hour, or until they are cooked through and browned. Serve hot for breakfast or luncheon. Egg Punch.—See Punch. Eggs with Robert Sauce.—Peel two onions, take out the insides or hearts, cut these into slices, put them with 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan over a sharp fire, and brown; add 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, season with salt and pepper, and reduce for about ten minutes. When about to serve, cut eig-ht hard-boiled Eggs into slices, mix them in with the broth, and warm up without boiling for two minutes ; lastly add 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, and serve. ®gg Salad.—(1) Boil six Eggs until hard, and leave till cold. Peel and cut them lengthwise into halves, then dust a small quantity of salt, pepper, and cayenne over each half °f Egg, and pour over it a few drops of oil and vinegar. Chop together in equal quantities, chervil, chives, and tarragon-leaves, place them in the centre of a dish, and arrange the halves of eggs round this. Wash, drain, and chop a few young lettuce-leaves, place them round the Eggs (see Pig. 704), and serve. (2) Cut into lin. lengths two stalks of the white part of celery, put them in a salad-bowl, then sprinkle over the finely-chopped whites of three hard-boiled Eggs. Scrape the skin off some sardines, split them down the middle, remove the bones, and put them on the salad, with their tails pointing upwards, seasoning with salt and pepper. Put the yolks of the hard-boiled Eggs in a mortar with 1 teacupful of cream, and pound them to a smooth paste. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, mix vinegar with it to make it thinner, then pour it over the other ingredients. Garnish the salad with some young and green celery leaves, and serve. (3) Cut off as many slices of beetroot as required, over these put slices of pickled Eggs, cover with slices of pickled cucumber, sprinkle over a little vinegar, and serve with mayonnaise dressing poured over all. Egg Salad, a l’ltalienne.—Boil six Eggs till hard, leave till cold, then peel and cut them crosswise into halves. Remove the yolks, taking care not to break the whites, put them in a mortar with 3 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and pound them to a smooth paste. Mix with the yolks 2 table-spoon- fuls of boned and minced anchovies, 1 table-spoonful of minced onion, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, fill the halves of whites with the mixture. Wash the white leaves of two heads of endive, put them in a basin with some oil and vinegar mixed in equal quantities and seasoned with salt and pepper, and toss them about. Cut off the ends of the Eggs so as to make them stand, put them in the centre of a round flat dish, arrange the endive-leaves with some red radishes round the Eggs, and serve. Should any of the yolk mixture be left over after the Eggs are stuffed, it can be I spread over slices of buttered bread cut into shapes, such as ' Eggs —continued. squares, triangles, and diamonds, and put round the border of endive-leaves. Egg Sandwiches.—(1) Prepare 1 pint of cream sauce, and at the same time boil half-a-dozen Eggs for fifteen minutes. Cut six thin slices of bread from a household loaf, trim off the crusts, toast the slices, and put them on a dish. Pour the sauce over, arrange the whites of the Eggs cut into small strips on top, and sprinkle over with the yolks rubbed through a fine sieve. Put two slices together to form a sandwich, and set them in a quick oven for two or three minutes to heat through. Garnish with a little parsley, and serve. (2) Cut several thin slices of bread, and spread anchovy butter over them ; cut five or six hard-boiled Eggs in slices, lay them between two of the slices of bread with a little chopped watercress sprinkled over, and serve. Egg- Sauce.—(1) Boil six Eggs in a saucepan of water for six minutes. Remove the shells, let them cool, and cut up into little squares; melt 8 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan on the stove, add 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and a little salt and pepper, and boil for five or six minutes. Put in the Eggs, and shake the pan over the fire until the Eggs are hot, then add 2 table-spoonfuls more butter, and shake again until it is melted. Pour the sauce when ready into a sauceboat, and serve as required. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of cream and milk into a saucepan with 2oz. of grated vanilla-flavoured chocolate, sweeten with sugar, and set the pan on the fire; when its contents boil, take it off the fire, put in the yolks of four Eggs, and whisk well to a froth; return the pan to the fire, and continue stirring until the sauce is thick. Put the whites of the four Eggs, with 3oz. of sugar, into a basin, whisk to a stiff froth, add to the other mixture, stir well, and serve hot. Care must be taken not to let the mixture boil after the yolks have been added and whisked. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of veal broth into a saucepan, and add ljoz. of flour and 2oz. of butter to thicken it. Boil and add three hard-boiled Eggs, the yolks and whites minced separately, also a little lemon-juice, cayenne, and finely- chopped parsley. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in 1 teaspoonful more of butter, and the sauce is ready for use. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, flavoured with vanilla, into a saucepan, with sugar to taste, and set it on the fire ; when about to boil, add 1 table-spoonful of flour and the yolks of three Eggs, and stir until it begins to get thick. Add the whites, well whisked with a little sugar, just before pouring into the sauceboat. (5) Put | pint of water and 1 teacupful of vinegar into a saucepan with four shallots, a little each of allspice, mace, and garlic, and boil quickly so as to reduce the quantity to 1 breakfast-cupful ; strain, and let it get cold. Add the yolks of three Eggs, 2oz. of butter in one lump, and season with salt; set the pan over a slow fire, and stir continually. When thick, add a little finely-chopped tarragon, and use as required. (6) Heat 1 pint of Dutch sauce, and when about to serve, sprinkle in two chopped hard-boiled Eggs and 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. (7) Beat the yolks of three Eggs in a saucepan with 1 tea- spoonful of flour, then pour in gradually f pint of water and 1 teacupful of vinegar; add loz. of butter, and season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over a brisk fire till on the point of boiling', then move it to the side and stir for five or six minutes longer, adding a few small pieces of butter. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve. Egg Sauce a la Maltre cl’Hotel.—Put 1 dessert-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, set it over the fire to melt, add a little flour to thicken, moisten with 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and season with pepper and salt; next add 1 dessert- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, two chopped hard-boiled Eggs, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when the sauce is quite hot serve. Egg Sauce for Fowls.—Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, melt it without browning, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix until smooth. Pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boil- ing water, adding a little at a time, and stir quickly till561 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eggs—continued. thick; then add 2oz. more of butter and \ teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lastly three Eggs boiled hard and finely chopped. Remove the pan from the fire, stir well, and the sauce is ready for use. Egg1 Sauce for Puddings.—Beat to a cream 1 breakfast- cupful each of butter and sugar, the yolk of an Egg, and 1 wineglassful of wine ; beat the white of the Egg to a froth. Stir the butter-and-sugar mixture into 1 gill of boiling water, then add the white of the Egg, and serve the sauce at once, either in a sauceboat or poured over the pudding, as required. Egg Sausages.—These 'are sometimes called Lent sausages, and are prepared as follows, requiring very great care: Select a few sausage-skins, taking care to see that there are no holes in them (which can be ascertained by filling them with water), wash them well, and let them drain. Put eight Eggs in a basin with 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste, and whisk in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. When the mass is thoroughly mixed, put a broad funnel in one end of the skins, tie the other end with string, and fill them, working the mixture down to the end by pressing with the finger and thumb. When full, tie the other end, and also at distances about 5in. apart, taking care not to have the skins too full, or they will burst in cooking. Throw them into a sauce- pan of boiling water for twenty minutes (hut without letting them boil, or the skins will break), moving them gently about to prevent the herbs from falling to one side in the skins. Take them out, and remove the skins. When wanted for use, warm them for a few minutes in stock or broth, put them on a dish with mashed potatoes under or round them, and serve hot. Eggs ill Shells.—Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a basin, add 1 teacupful of finely-minced tongue or ham, a little salt, pepper, mustard in powder, chopped parsley, and melted butter; work the mixture to a smooth paste with a little hot milk, and spread it on table shells. Break some Eggs carefully, put one on each shell, sprinkle biscuit- or cracker-crumbs over the tops, with a little salt and pepper ; pour 1 dessert-spoonful of liquefied butter on each, and bake for five minutes, or till the Eggs are firm. Arrange the shells on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Egg Snow.—(1) Beat up the whites of six Eggs in a sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of milk and a little salt, and boil. When done, cut the mixture with a spoon into equal-sized pieces, and put them on a strainer to drain. Put 1 pint of cream in a saucepan with the peel of half a lemon and a little sugar and salt, boil, and stand it aside for a few minutes. When cool, stir in the yolks of four well-beaten Eggs, and let this thicken over the fire without boiling again. When the cream is thick enough, strain it through a sieve, and pour it over the Eggs, previously placed on a dish. (2) Put 1 pint of milk in a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured sugar; when the milk boils, stand the pan on the side of the fire. Beat the whites of six Eggs and a little caster sugar to a stiff froth ; put 1 table-spoonful at a time of the frothed Egg- in the milk, place on the fire again, and turn the Eggs about in the milk, to cook thoroughly ; take them out, and arrange on a cold dish, keeping them a little distance from each other. Beat the yolks of the Eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, put them in with the milk in which the whites were cooked, and stir over the fire till thick, but without boiling. Pour this over the whites, and serve. (3) Whisk the whites of five Eggs to a stiff froth, add and beat lightly into it 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar and a small quantity of dried and powdered orange-flowers. Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, with a flavouring of powdered orange-flowers and 3oz. of powdered white sugar; when it boils, poach the beaten whites of Eggs in it, 1 dessert-spoonful at a time, shaping them as much like eggs as possible, and laying them when done on a sieve to drain. When all the whites are used up, take half the milk they were poached in, add the beaten yolks, set the pan over the fire, and stir till thick ; then remove it from the fire, and pour it in a jug to cool. Arrange the poached froth in a glass dish, and pour the custard round. (4) Moulded.—Beat the whites of four fx-esh Eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with them Jib. of caster sugar flavoured Eggs—continued. with vanilla. Butter a fluted cylinder-moixld, dust it over inside with caster sugar, pour in the white of Egg mixture, stand the mould in a very deep stewpan, surround it with boil- ing water, and let it simmer for fifteen minixtes. Take out the Fig. 705. Egg Snow (moulded). mould, and leave it for five minutes or so to cool. Whip a little cream, flavour it with vanilla, pour it at the bottom of a glass dish, turn out the egg snow on to it, aixd serve. See Fig. 705. Egg Snow with Coffee Cream.—Whip the whites of five Eggs to a firm froth, and mix in 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of coffee extract. Put lqt. of milk in a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it; then put in the beaten whites, 1 table-spoonful at a time, and stand the pan at the side of the fire. When the whites are done, take them out, drain, and let them cool. Put the yolks of six Eggs, beaten up with 1 teacupful of the sweetened milk in which the whites were cooked, into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till thick, but without boiling; sti-ain, and when cool mix in 1 table-spoonful more of the extract. Arrange the poached whites in a circle on a dish, pour the coffee cream round or over, and serve. Egg-Snow Pudding.—(1) Put -jib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil until a dark brown ; pour it into a small warmed basin, and turn it about until well coated. Whisk the whites of six Eggs to a stiff froth, pour this into the basin, which it should only half fill, tie a sheet of white paper over the basin, place it in a large flat stewpan with boiling water to half its height, put the lid on the pan, and keep it at the side of the fire, so that the water will simmer, without boiling, for forty-five minutes. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar in a plain mould, and stir it over the fire till it melts and becomes brown and coats the mould all over; beat the whites of four Eggs in a whipping-bowl to a stiff froth, then sift in gently 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar, and flavour with lemon, almond, or vanilla essence. Pour the Egg mixture into the mould, and proceed as for No. 1. Egg Soup.—(1) Put two sliced onions into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry them a light brown; then pour in 3 piixts of water, and boil very fast to reduce the liquor to two-thirds of its original quantity. When the onions are quite tender, take them out, and put them on one side ; boil up the liquor again, and add 1 saltspoonful of salt, a little pepper and sugar, 1 table-spoonful of flour, and 1 teacupfixl of milk. Stir well, and when the mixture thickens take it off the fire, and add the yolks of four Eggs, one at a time. Put in a tureen some pieces of bread dried in the oven, pour the soup over, and serve hot. (2) Put lqt. of highly-seasoned broth in a stewpan, boil, add one dozen Eggs, each broken separately in cups. When they are firm, take them out with a perforated slice, and trim the edges. Put some slices of bread, cut in dice and fried in butter, at the bottom of a soup-tureen, and arrange the Eggs on it, taking care not to break the yolks ; strain the broth in which they were poached over them, and serve. (3) Beat together the yolks of two Eggs and the white of ' one, mix in as much flour as will absorb the Eggs, wox-k the 2 y562 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. mixture into a stiff hard ball, grate this on a coarse grater, spreading it all over a paste-board, and then put it in a warm place where it will dry. Put 3 pints of clear soup into a saucepan, set it over the fire until boiling, then sprinkle in the grated Egg-paste, with a small quantity of grated nutmeg and finely-chopped chives. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread separately. (4) Put a good-sized lump of butter in a saucepan, melt it, put in 21b. of breadcrumbs, and toss them about for a few minutes over the fire ; mix in 1 pint of clear, well-flavoured stock, | pint of raisin wine, and three well-beaten Eggs, and stir at the side of the fire until on the verge of boiling; then turn it at once into a soup-tureen, and serve. Eggs dressed in Spanish Fashion.—Put a slice of bacon- fat into a frying-pan over a brisk fire, and when the fat is melted, stir in 1 teaspoonful of honey, break in half- a-dozen new-laid Eggs, being careful not to break their yolks, and fry slowly. When cooked, take them carefully up with a slice, place them on a hot dish, strew sliced pickled red and green capsicums over, and serve. Egg Tablets.—Beat the yolks of eight Eggs with Goz. of powdered white sugar for half-an-hour; beat the whites also for half-an-hour in a separate basin; then mix them together, and add and stir in by degrees Goz. of sifted flour. When this is well mixed, add £ pint of orange-flower or rose-water, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer. Butter some flat tins, fill a pastry-bag with the paste, and push it through the tube on to the buttered tins. Bake in a hot oven. Egg Toasts.—Beat together one Egg, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and 1 pinch of salt; soak in this six small slices of stale bread, and when soft put them on a well-buttered griddle and brown both sides. These make a very good dish for tea, served hot, and eaten with butter. Eggs on Toast.—(1) Toast six or eight pieces of bread without crust, cut square, butter them, and put them on a dish. Place a poached Egg on each, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and serve hot. (2) Mask the bottom of a large flat dish with white sauce or gravy (poultry for preference), and have ready as many slices of bread fried in butter as Eggs used; put the dish over a saucepan of boiling water, and when the liquor and bread are quite hot, put an Egg on each, and cook until they are set. (3) Nearly fill a frying-pan with salted water, and when it boils carefully break in a cup as many Eggs as required, and slip each one separately into the boiling water. When firm, take them out one at a time with a perforated slice, drain them, and trim the edges; put each one on a little square of hot buttered toast, pour a thin cream sauce round them, and serve. (4) Put loz. of butter on a plate and melt it in the oven; break eight Eggs, one by one, on to the plate, and cook them slowly in a moderate oven. When done, serve on slices of hot buttered toast. A little finely-chopped fried parsley sprinkled over improves this dish. (5) Pour 1 pint of tomato sauce into a saucepan on the fire, add two peeled and cut-up sweet peppers, and fry for two minutes with 1 table-spoonful of butter, adding 1 tea- spoonful of chopped chives; then reduce it gradually to about half its original quantity, which will take about ten minutes. Poach and trim six Eggs, place six slices of hot toast on a warm dish, arrange the Eggs carefully on top, and pour over the tomato sauce. Serve at once, or the effect will be lost. (6) Make as many small slices of toast as there are Egg's, lay them on a dish, butter them, and on each one put an Egg, first broken into a cup. Set the dish before the fire, where the heat will strike the Eggs, and let them cook. When done, squeeze over the juice of a sour orange, season lightly with salt and cayenne, and serve hot. (7) Make a large round of toast, remove the crust, put the toast in a dish with a few lumps of butter on it, and place it in front of the lire. Break eight Eggs, put them on the toast when the butter is melted, pour over a little orange- or lemon-juice, and dust with grated nutmeg. Hold a hot salamander over the Eggs until they are set, and then serve. Eggs —continued. (8) Toast several thick slices of bread, trim off the crusts, butter the slices, place a poached Egg on each, put them on separate plates, pour 1 teacupful of boiling milk over every one, and serve one to each person. Eggs with Tomato Sauce.—(1) Boil three Eggs till hard, peel them, out the whites into strips, put these over the fire with tomato sauce, and let them get quite hot. Put a layer of this on a hot dish with pieces of fried bread all round. Chop the yolks of the Eggs, put a layer over the sauce and white of Egg, then more tomato and more chopped Egg, and so on till the yolks of the Eggs and tomato sauce are all dished, having a layer of the yolks on top. Serve as hot as possible. (2) Cut some hard-boiled Eggs into quarters, and put them on a dish; pour over tomato sauce, garnish with parsley, and serve. Eggs as Tripe.—(1) Boil a dozen Eggs until hard, and when cold, peel and cut them into slices. Peel some small pickling onions, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry over a slow fire ; dredge over with flour, pour in J breakfast- cupful each of stock and cream, and stew gently until tender, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. When the onions are ready, put in the Eggs, and leave them until hot, moving the stewpan to the side of the fire. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve at once. (2) Peel and chop four onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry; dredge over 1 table- spoonful of flour, pour in 1 teacupful each of milk and cream, and stir the sauce over the fire until boiling and the onions quite tender; then move the pan to the side, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cut eight or ten hard-boiled Eggs into slices, put them in the sauce, and set the pan over the fire until hot. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put two medium-sized sliced onions in a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry, but not sufficiently to brown them; mix in | table-spoonful of flour and 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, season with salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg, and cook for eight minutes, stirring constantly with a spatula or wooden spoon; add twelve sliced hard-boiled Eggs, and heat together thoroughly for two minutes without letting the mixture boil again. Turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Eg'g’-and-Truffle Omelets.—Cut a small quantity of truffles into thin slices, put them in a stewpan with a little brown sauce, and boil very gently. Make a sufficient quantity of plain Egg omelets, spread the truffles over them, and fold them up. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the omelets on it, garnish with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Egg Vermicelli.—Boil three Eggs for twenty minutes, peel, separate the yolks and whites, and chop the whites finely. Have ready four slices of bread toasted, and cut them into 2in. squares, after trimming off the crusts. Mix 1 teaspoon- ful of flour with 1 teacupful of milk, season with 1 tea- spoonful of salt and pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful of butter; put this to cream in a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire till the flour is cooked; then add the chopped whites of Eggs, and stir two or three minutes longer. Arrange the squares of toast on a dish, pour over the mixture, and let it set. Bub the yolks through a fine strainer and pile on the top of the toasts. Cut some slices of toasted bread into triangles, garnish the dish with these alternately with sprigs of parsley, place a small bunch of parsley in the centre, and serve hot. Eggs softened in Vinegar.—Take two or three Eggs (those having' clear white shells for preference), put them into a basin of vinegar, and leave in it for a day or so for the shell to soften; then put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for seven or eight minutes, when they will appear as if poached, preserving an oval, disc-like shape, and the soft shell can easily be stripped off after. Serve as for poached Eggs, or in any other convenient manner. Egg-and-Watev Cream.—Put 1 pint of water in a saucepan with 2oz. of sugar, a small quantity of coriander and cinnamon, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and boil. Remove the pan from the fire, beat in the yolks of eightTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 563 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. Eggs, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, and with it fill some small cups. Stand them in a stewpan, pour round boiling water to half their height, put the lid on the pan with some live embers on it, and set it over a slow fire. When cooked, turn the cream out of the cups on to a hot dish, and serve. Eggs with White Sauce.—(1) Put Joz. of butter into a small saucepan over the fire ; when melted, mix in loz. of flour, pour in gradually 1 gill of cream and 2 table-spoonfnls of milk, stir it till it boils, and then boil it for ten minutes, stirring frequently. Wash and peel one dozen button-mush- rooms, put them in a pan over the fire, with Joz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of cold water, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a small quantity of chopped parsley, and salt to taste. Bring it to the boil, then pour it in with the white sauce, and stir over the fire for a minute. Cut six hard-boiled Eggs in quarters, arrange them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. (2) Boil four Eggs till hard, peel them, cut off the whites, chop these into small pieces, put them on a hot dish, strew a small quantity of minced veal or ham over, and cover with white sauce. Bub the yolks of the Eggs through a fine hair sieve over the whites, and serve very hot. Egg Wine.—(1) Beat the yolks of three Eggs in a bowl, add 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and work well; then add sugar to taste, beat again, and pass the mixture through a sieve into a saucepan; set the pan on the side of the fire so as to warm the contents without boiling, and stir continually; when warm enough, return it to the bowl, add 1 wineglassful of sherry and a little grated nutmeg, and serve. (2) Break four Eggs into a basin, put in 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cloves and nutmeg, and beat well. Put f pint of sherry in a saucepan with J pint of water, or in equal quantities, boil up once, stir in the Eggs, pour the mixture backwards and forwards from saucepan to basin, or stir it by the fire, ceasing at once when sufficiently thick. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Put Jib. of loaf sugar into a lined saucepan with lin. of stick cinnamon and 1 teaspoonful of crushed vanilla, pour in three bottles of red wine, and place the pan over the fire. Whisk nine Eggs to a stiff froth with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 wineglassful of wine, pour them in with the sugar mixture, and whisk over the fire until on the point of boiling; then take the pan off immediately, whisk it for a few minutes longer, and serve. (4) Put 4oz. of lemon-flavoured sugar in a casserole, with about 1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon and the strained juice of one lemon. Beat five Eggs, pour them in the casserole with 1 pint of white wine, and whip the whole over the fire until very hot. It must on no account boil, or the Eggs will curdle and spoil the effect. Serve hot. (5) Whisk eight Eggs to a stiff froth along with 2oz. of caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon or grated nutmeg; pour in gradually lqt. of red or white wine, and serve quickly. (6) Mix 1 table-spoonful of cold water with a well-beaten Egg; put in a saucepan 1 wineglassful of white wine, half that quantity of water, a very little grated nutmeg, and sugar to sweeten, bring it gently to the boil, stir it in with the Egg, return the whole to the saucepan, stir in one direction over the fire for a minute (no longer, or the Egg will curdle), and serve with sippets of dry toast. The wine can be made with- out warming up when the Egg is added, but it will not have such a pleasant taste, although it will be easier of digestion. Egg-and-Wine Custard.—Put 1 pint of white wine in a saucepan with a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and mace, and boil. Beat the yolks of three Eggs, stir them in quickly, moving the saucepan off the fire, for if the Eggs are boiled they will curdle. Turn the custard into a basin, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and whisk to a stiff froth. Serve in small glasses. Forcemeat of Hard-boiled Egg's and Parsley.—Pound the yolks of six hard-boiled Eggs in a mortar with a little finely- minced parsley, cayenne, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and salt and pepper to taste; add sufficient Egg to make it of the required consistence, roll the forcemeat into balls, and boil these in stock or water for two minutes before being used for garnish or otherwise. Eggs —continued. Fricassee of Eggs.—(1) Put about 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, place it over the fire, and stir with a wooden spoon until the milk is thickened with the bread; then move it off the fire and mix in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese and six Eggs, adding the latter one at a time. Season to taste with salt and pepper; put the saucepan over the fire again, and stir the contents until on the point of boiling; then move it off at once, or the Eggs will curdle. Turn the fricassee out on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, squeeze over a small quantity of lemon-juice, and serve. (2) Boil twelve Eggs till hard, peel, and cut them into quarters. Pour J pint of gravy into a saucepan with the grated peel of a lemon, J table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of thyme, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; put in the Eggs with loz. of butter worked up with a little flour, and stir the whole gently over the fire until the sauce is thickened. Turn the fricassee out on to a hot dish, garnish with sliced and fried artichoke-bottoms and chopped hard-boiled Eggs, and serve. Fried Eggs. — (1) Put 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil in a frying-pan on the hot range, heat it well, break into it one Egg, being- careful not to injure the yolk, with the aid of a knife fold the white over the yolk, and cook for a-quarter-of- a-minute ; turn the Egg over with a skimmer, and cook for a-quarter-of-a-minute on the other side; lift it out with the skimmer, and place it on a hot dish with a folded napkin. Proceed in the same way with eleven more Eggs, and they will then be ready to be served. Mix 1 pinch of salt with J pinch of white pepper, and as soon as the Eggs are dressed on the dish, season each one evenly with it. Special care must be taken to cook the Eggs separately, and for no longer than a-quarter-of-a-minute on each side. (2) Usually ham or bacon is fried as an accompaniment for Eggs, and they are cooked in the pan after the ham is done ; bnt they can be fried in dripping, lard, or butter. Have ready in the frying-pan sufficient fat to half cover the Eggs; break these in separate cups or saucers, and slip them into the hot fat; but if to be cooked hard, either pour the hot fat over them with a spoon, or turn them entirely over in it without breaking the yolks. When they are cooked to the desired degree, take them out, dust over with pepper and salt, and serve. (3) Put jib. of butter in a frying-pan, and when melted put in one dozen Eggs, broken in a basin, with the yolks intact, and sprinkled with pepper and salt, and fry till firm. Take them out with a slice, drain, arrange them on a dish, pour over a little vinegar, and serve. Fried Eggs a la Provenpale.—Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of oil or warmed butter into a frying-pan on the fire; when heated, break an Egg into a cup, season with salt and pepper, drop it into the oil, baste it with the oil, turn it over, and when of a good colour on both sides, take out, and drain on a wire sieve. Cook twelve Eggs altogether, allowing two minutes for each. When all are done, trim them, and serve on a dish with pieces of fried bread between them. Pour over J pint of reduced Spanish sauce, with the zest of a lemon and six sliced mushrooms added to it, and serve very hot. Fried Eggs ■with Bacon.—Break a dozen Eggs separately in cups without damaging the yolks. Put some slices of fat bacon in a frying-pan, fry, take them out, boil the fat, put in the Eggs one at a time so that they will be able to be taken apart, and fi'y them well but not to be too much done. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over, and place care- fully on some slices of bacon on a dish, or they may be put in the centre of the dish and the slices of bacon put round as a garnish. Should there not be enough fat in the pan, add more. Although this is a very ordinary dish, it requires care in preparing. Fried Eggs with Black Butter.—Put loz. of butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove, and make it hot without browning. Break twelve Eggs into cups, slide them carefully into the pan, season with salt and white pepper, and cook slowly for three minutes. Have ready a hot flat dish, slide tho Eggs gently on to it, without turning them over, taking care not to break them, and set the dish in a warm place. Put 2oz. of butter in the saucepan, place it on the hot stove again, 2 y 2THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 564 Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eggs —continued. and let the butter get a good lemon colour, which will take about three minutes; add 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, pour this over the Eggs, and serve at once. Fried Eggs for Garnish.—Pour i teacupful of sweet oil into a frying-pan ; when hot break in one Egg, carefully closing up the white part with a skimmer so as to have it firm and compact, and cook for two minutes. Only one Egg at a time should be in the pan. Fried Eggs served with Tomato Sauce.—Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter or oil in a frying-pan, melt it, tip the pan slightly, and break in one Egg at a time, piling the white over the yolk. When done, take it out, drain it, and proceed in this way until sufficient are cooked. Cover a dish with tomato sauce, arrange the Eggs on it, and serve. Genoese Eggs.—Wash 2oz. of rice, boil it until soft, and drain on a sieve, shaking it so that the grains separate, j Boil three Eggs until hard, then peel and finely chop them. Put 3oz. of butter into a stewpan with one small peeled and chopped onion, and | table-spoonful of finely-chopped [ parsley, and fry until beginning to brown; then put in the chopped Eggs and the rice, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir the mixture over the fire until very hot. Cut off four squares of bread, toast lightly, butter them, pile on the mixture, put them on a hot dish with an ornamental paper (see Fig. 706), and serve. Hard-boiled Eggs with Madeira Sauce.—Cut twelve hard- boiled Eggs lengthwise into halves, remove the yolks, place them in a bowl with Joz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and 1 pinch of chopped chives; beat these well, fill the whites with the mixture, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, pour over a few drops of clarified butter, and put them on a buttered dish in the oven for three minutes. Serve with a pint of Madeira sauce poured over. Imitation Poached Eggs.—Put 1J pints of cream in a saucepan, sweeten to taste, and flavour with orang'e-flowers, marzipan, burnt almonds, and candied lemon-peel, all bruised or chopped small. Beat the whites of eight Eggs to a stiff froth,. bring the cream quickly to a boil, poach this froth in it in piled table-spoonfuls; then drain, and arrange on a dish to represent Eggs poached, but without the yolks. When all the froth is used up, keep the cream on the' fire till it is somewhat reduced, add to it the beaten yolks of eight Eggs, and stir them well in ; before it boils, pour it gently over the dish of poached froth, and serve at once. Matelote of Eggs.—(1) Put in a stewpan 1 pint of either red or white wine that has been diluted with a third of its quantity of water. Chop up an onion, mix it with a little pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and one clove of garlic, and boil in the wine for five minutes; strain, put it back in the saucepan, and poach ten Eggs in it. Arrange the Eggs on a dish when done. Thicken the wine with butter rubbed in flour, stir over the fire till the flour is cooked, pour it over the Eggs, and serve. (2) Peel ten or twelve small onions, put them in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of lard or butter, and fry until very lightly coloured; pour over them in equal quantities a little white wine and stock, add a small bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the whole gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then remove the bunch of herbs, and strain the gravy. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire with the gravy in it, and poach in it, one at a time, as many Eggs as will be required. Place the Eggs and onions on a hot dish, thicken the sauce with a little flour, pour it over the Eggs, garnish Eggs—continued. with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Mock Eggs or Bombay Oysters. — Put about 1 dessert- spoonful of vinegar or an equal quantity of lemon-juice into a small glass, break in an Egg, using only a slight portion of the white, sprinkle over a few grains of cayenne, and, if liked, a few drops of Worcester sauce, and swallow at a draught without breaking the yolk, if possible. Mock Eggs and Sherry Oyster.— Pour a little sherry into a wineglass, break an Egg into it, put the glass to the mouth, and swallow Egg and sherry together, without letting the yolk break in the mouth. Nuremberg Egg.—Peel off the shell of a hard-boiled Egg, dip the Egg in batter, put it in a stewpan of melted butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the Egg, dip it again in the batter, and fry again, rolling it about well in the pan. Continue dipping the Egg in batter and frying it, as before, until a large ball is made; then place it on a hot dish, pour over wine sauce, and serve. One-Egg Cake.—Mix 1 teacupful of creamed butter with 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, one Egg beaten light, J pint of milk, 1 pint of flour, ^ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 tea- spoonful each of cream of tartar and vanilla. Make into a dough, let it rise before putting into a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Pickled Eggs (Jewish).—Put twenty Eggs into a net, then into a saucepan with more than sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil for thirty minutes; then plunge them into cold water, remove the shells, and put them into a jar. Pour 6 breakfast-cupfuls of brown vinegar into a saucepan, add ioz. each of long peppers, black peppers, and allspice, ioz. each of bruised mace, white ginger, coriander-seeds, cardamoms, and cloves, and ten chillies, also loz. of sugar, and boil for a few minutes. Let the pickle get cold, pour it over the Eggs, and cover over. The Eggs will have the appearance of pickled walnuts. Poached Eggs.—(1) Put some water with a little vinegar in a flat stewpan, and when it boils break in four or five Eg'gs, turning the shells so as to bring the white evenly round the yolk. When firm, take out and throw them into cold water. When the required number are cooked, trim them neatly. These can be served in various ways. (2) Fry some Eggs in an Egg-poacher in boiling oil ; when brown (but they must not be hard), sprinkle a little salt over, and glaze. Serve on small squares of buttered toast. (3) Boil the Eggs first in their shells for four-minutes- and-a-half; then plunge them into cold water and leave for ten minutes. Peel and plunge them in boiling water to warm, take them out, dish them, garnish with water- cress, and serve. (4) Break the Eggs into cups, one in each, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, but do not let the water reach to the top of the cups, and boil gently till the Eggs are done. Butter pieces of hot toast, cut off the crusts, and serve the Eggs on them. (5) Beat two Eggs along with | teacupful of milk and 1 pinch of salt. Put a small lump of butter in a frying-pan ; when it is hot, add the beaten Eggs, and stir till the mixture thickens, but be careful not to let it get hard and lumpy. Toast some slices of bread, butter them, arrange on a dish, pour over the Egg mixture, sprinkle chopped parsley and salt on the top, and serve. (6) Put half-a-dozen Eggs in boiling water for five minutes; then take them out and let them cool in cold water. Peel off the shells, and put the Eggs in warm water again for a few minutes. Dish them, brush over with reduced bechamel sauce, then with tomato sauce, and lastly with butter. These Eggs may be used as a garnish for a variety of dishes. (7) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of minced cooked ham into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of chopped gherkin and onion, ^ table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; pour in ^ pint of clear broth, and stew the sauce at the side of the fire for an hour. Poach a sufficient quantity of Eggs in boiling water, and lay them carefully on a hot dish. Mix 1 table-spoonful of orange-juice in the sauce, pour it over the Eggs, and serve.565 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iSic., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs—continued. Poached Eggs a la Bourguignonne. — Put 1 table- spoonful of meat glaze in a saucepan with 1 pint of broth or consomme, and boil for a few minutes; add two Eggs, and poach for one-miuute-and-a-quarter. Carefully lift out the Eggs with a skimmer, and lay them gently on a hot dish. Repeat the operation with ten more Egg-s, two at a time. When all are on the dish, sprinkle over loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and place them in the hot oven for one minute to brown. Reduce the gravy in which the Eggs poached to half its original quantity. Carefully pour it round, but not over them, and serve hot. Poached Eggs with Anchovy Sauce.—Put six Eggs into a saucepan of water, and boil for five minutes; then take them out, remove the shells, and put them into cold water. In the meantime, cut off the crust from a stale loaf (tin- loaf for preference), and cut the crumb into slices about lin. thick, and again into oval-shaped pieces about the size of Eggs. With a sharp knife cut them transversely round the edge, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light brown. Take them out, split them, removing the bottom part, scoop out a little of the soft inside, fill each cavity with an Egg, and put on the tops. Flavour a little bechamel sauce with essence of anchovies, place the Egg croustades on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve quite hot. Poached Eggs with Bechamel Sauce.—Pour 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, and set it on the hot stove. Cut twelve hard-boiled Eggs in halves, put them into the hot bechamel, season with white pepper, and warm up thoroughly for three minutes, but without boiling; add loz. of butter and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, pour the whole on to a hot dish, and serve with six croutons of fried bread. Poached Eggs with Celery Sauce.—Boil two heads of well-washed celery in lqt. of white broth for fifteen minutes; take them out, cut them in lin. lengths, return to the pan with the broth, leaving it on the stove to keep hot, and season with salt and white pepper. Reduce the liquor to three-quarters (which will require about ten minutes), pour in 1 ] gill of hot bechamel sauce, and boil again. Poach twelve Eggs, neatly arrange them round a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve quickly. Poached Eggs with Game Puree.—Take the trimmings and carcases of any cold roasted game, chop them into convenient-sized ptieces, put them into a stewpan with a small onion, a carrot, a small piece of celery, a bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, a small piece of mace, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; pour in a sufficient quantity of common stock to cover, and boil gently for two hours. Cut Jib. of lean beef with some cold game into small pieces, pound them in a mortar until smooth, rub the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and put it into a stewpan. Strain the stock, pour it over the pounded meat, place it over a gentle fire to get thoroughly hot, add more flavouring if required, and stir in about loz. of butter. Poach and trim some Eggs, and fry an equal quantity of croutons of bread in butter until browned. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, arrange the poached Eggs on the top, garnish round with the fried bread, and serve. Do not make the puree too liquid; if there is more liquor than required, put it by for other use. Poached Eggs with Mushrooms.—Peel and wash Jib. of mushrooms, drain them, put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, season with salt and white pepper, and squeeze in two or three drops of lemon-juice. Cover over the pan, cook for ten minutes on a moderate fire, add about J wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to half the original quantity; then add 1 gill of bechamel sauce, and bring the whole to the boiling-point. Poach twelve Eggs. Pour the sauce on a hot dish, keeping the mushrooms in the saucepan ; neatly lay the Eggs over the sauce in a circle on the dish, place the mushrooms right in the centre, and serve. Poached Eggs for Soup.—Put J wineglassful of vinegar into a saucepan of boiling salted water, keeping it on the side of the fire to boil gently. Break some Eggs separately in a cup, pour them gently into the boiling water, cover over Eggs —continued. the pan, and let them remain for three minutes. A few only should be put in at a time. When done, take them out with a perforated slice, and plunge them into cold water; take out of this, trim them round, and either put them into the tureen with the soup or serve separately on a dish. Poached Eggs with Stock.—Put lqt. of water in a sauce- pan with 1 pinch of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil. Break six Eggs, one at a time, in a cup, and pour carefully into the boiling water. When the whites are firm, take the Eggs out with a skimmer so as not to break them, and put them in a basin of warm water for ten minutes; then drain them, trim to an oval shape, and put them on a dish. Reduce 2 pints of stock to 1 pint, pour it over the Eggs, sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper, and serve. Poached Eggs and Tomatoes.—Put half a tin of canned tomatoes in a stewpan, with one chopped small onion, add salt and pepper to taste, and stew for ten minutes; then put in six Eggs, one at a time. Lift the whites carefully over the yolks with a fork while cooking till the Eggs are firm; then prick the yolks and let them mingle with the tomatoes and whites. Have ready some slices of buttered toast on a dish, pour over the Egg mixture, and serve hot. Poached Eggs with Truffles.—Peel three truffles, cut them up into thin slices, put in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to one-lialf its original bulk over a moderate fire. Season with salt and white pepper, add 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce, and boil. Prepare twelve heart-shaped croutons of bread, dip the pointed parts first into the sauce, Jin. in depth, and then into finely- chopped parsley to the same depth; arrange them on a hot dish in the shape of a star, so that the decorated ends of the croutons will just reach up to the edge of the dish equally all round. Poach twelve Eggs, and put one on each crouton. Pour the sauce gently in the centre of the dish, being careful not to pour any over the Eggs ; cut a truffle into twelve equal slices, dip these in a little hot broth for two seconds, lay a slice on top of each Egg, and serve im- mediately. Poached Eggs with Wine Sauce.—Pour 1 pint of claret into a stewpan, with two sprigs of parsley and one sprig of thyme tied together, also one small onion, one clove of garlic, one clove, and salt and pepper to taste, and boil for a- quarter-of-an-hour; then strain through a fine hair sieve, and return it to the stewpan. Break in carefully one Egg, leave it in one minute, then take it out with a skimmer, and place it on a dish. Proceed like this until eight Eggs have been used, then put the dish in a warm place. Work 1 table-spoonful of flour with Jib. of butter, put it into the wine sauce, stir over the fire, and boil until reduced to a thick cream. Pour the sauce over the Eggs, and serve. Potted Eggs. -Boil half-a-dozen Eggs till hard; then pound the yolks in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce and about Joz. of butter, with pepper and salt to taste. Press the mixture into a glass jar, pour 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of butter melted to oil on top of it, and it will keep for a week or ten days. When wanted, stand the jar on a small dish, and garnish round and on top with fresh, well-washed parsley. Preserved Eggs.—(1) Make a mixture of 1 bushel of lime (slaked in wrater), 31b. of salt, 8oz. of cream of tartar, and as much water as will more than cover the Eggs; put the Eggs in this, and they will keep good for a couple of years. (2) Brush over the Eggs, which must be new laid, with a little dissolved gum, doing one half of an Egg first and letting it dry, and then doing the other half, so that every part is covered, and taking care that none is rubbed off in handling. Eggs preserved in this way will keep fresh for a considerable time. Savoury Eggs.—(1) Put a large piece of butter in a dish, and stand it on a hot stove until the butter has melted; then pour in J pint of cream, break in carefully a sufficient quantity of Eggs, and dust a small quantity of salt and pepper on the top of each. Leave the dish on the stove until the Eggs are firm, and then serve. (2) Beat up three Eggs, and mix with them 2 table-spoon- fuls of cold ham, minced very fine, J teaspoonful of choppedTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 566 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs —continued. parsley, and a little pepper and salt; add J teacupful of milk and grayy mixed. Pour the mixture into a flat disk, bake till the Eggs are set, and serve hot. Scalloped Eggs.— (1) Peel six hard-boiled Eggs, take out the yolks, and chop the whites very fine. Put a layer of breadcrumbs mixed with a little melted butter in a buttered scallop shell or dish, then a layer of the chopped whites, a layer of finely-minced cooked poultry, ham, or fish, a layer of white sauce, seasoned to taste, and the yolks of the Eggs, and so on until the dish is full. Cover the top with buttered crumbs, and bake. When the crumbs are brown, serve. (2) Moisten some fine breadcrumbs with a little milk ; then butter a dish, and spread a layer of the breadcrumbs on it. Boil two Eggs hard, peel them, cut them into slices, dip each slice in thick (reduced) white sauce, arrange them on the breadcrumbs, put another layer of moistened breadcrumbs on the top, and sprinkle breadcrumbs, dried in the oven, over all. Bake to a light brown, and serve while hot. (3) Boil hard half-a-dozen Eggs; when cold, peel and chop them up coarsely, and mix with them a few table-spoonfuls of white sauce. Thickly butter the inside of a scallop shell, and strew some finely-grated stale breadcrumbs in it; put in a layer of the chopped Eggs, cover with a layer of bread- crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, then another layer of Eggs, and so on until the shell is full, the last layer being of breadcrumbs and butter. Put it in the oven, and bake until lightly browned on the top ; when ready, spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pdace the shell on it, garnish round with parsley, and serve. Scotch Eggs.—(1) Put a little less than 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and boil until the mixture becomes quite smooth ; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-chopped lean part of ham, a little cayenne, 1 saltspoonful of made mustard, and one Egg, and mix well. Boil six Eggs until they are hard, let them cool, and then take off their shells ; spread the mixture over the Eggs, plunge them — using the frying-basket -— into boiling fat, and let them remain for two or three minutes. Drain them, and serve with a garnish of parsley. (2) Boil six Eggs till hard, and take off the shells ; mask each Egg with raw forcemeat, roll them in grated ham or tongue, press with the hands to make it adhere, roll each Fig. 707. Eggs and Forcemeat. Egg in very fine breadcrumbs, and fry them in fat to a yellow colour. Put them on a dish, and pour sharp sauce or plain gravy over them; or cut them in halves and place them round on a plain lettuce salad (see Fig. 707). Scrambled. Eggs.—(1) Beat up four Eggs, and add 1 pinch of salt. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, pour in the Eggs, and stir quickly over a brisk fire for one minute. Toast and butter some slices of bread, put them on a dish, pour the Eggs over, and serve piping hot. (2) Break four Eggs in a basin, add 1 pinch of salt and pepper, beat lightly with a fork, and then add slowly 1 teacupful of milk, still beating. Melt a piece of butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the beaten Eggs, and stir quickly over the fire till cooked. Chopped parsley or minced meat may be mixed with the Eggs before cooking. Serve very hot on hot buttered toast. (3) Melt 3oz. of butter in a saucepan, break in twelve Eggs, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix thoroughly without ceasing for three minutes, using a spatula or knife, with the pan on a clear fire. Turn the Eggs into a warm tureen, add a little verjuice or lemon-juice, and serve. Eggs —continued. (4) Melt 3oz. or 4oz. of butter in a frying-pan, and break in as many Eggs as it will conveniently hold ; when the whites have set, stir them from the bottom of the pan to the centre till all are done, seasoning with salt and pepper, and adding a little more butter if required. Toast some slices of bread, cut off the crusts, butter the slices, grate cheese over, arrange on a dish, pour over the scrambled Eggs, sprinkle a little cayenne on the top, garnish with parsley, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus-tops.— Prepare as for Scrambled Eggs (No. 3). After the Eggs have been mixed with the butter in the pan, add a sufficient quantity of boiled asparagus-tops. Scrambled Eggs with Broth.—Put about 1 table-spoonful each of broth and milk in a small saucepan, add a small lump of butter, season with pepper and salt, break in two Eggs, and stir quickly over the fire till the Eggs begin to thicken; then take them off the fire and continue stirring till the Eggs are done. Have ready several thick slices of bread toasted and well buttered, put some of the Egg mixture on each piece, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Cream and Mushrooms. •— Beat four Eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Put ^ gill of cream and a small lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt the butter, pour in the beaten Eggs, and stir quickly over the fire for three or four minutes. Before cooking the Eggs, chop up some mushrooms, and lightly fry them in butter. When the Eggs are done, dish, mix the mushrooms with them, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Endive.—Blanch a head of endive for fifteen minutes, then drain, and cut it into lin. lengths. Put these in a saucepan on the fire with loz. of butter and one minced onion, fry, then moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, and add salt and pepper to taste. Continue to cook until all the liquor has evaporated, which should take from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Break twelve Eggs into another saucepan, add the endive and loz. more of butter, scramble or mix with a spatula for four minutes, and serve with croutons of fried bread placed round the dish for garnish. Scrambled Eggs with Goose’s Fat Liver. — Mask six pieces of toast with goose’s fat liver, and cover over with twelve scrambled Eggs; place them on a dish, pour round 2 table-spoonfuls of half-glaze, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef.—Fry 2oz. of finely- chopped smoked beef in a sa.ute-pan for one minute. Scramble twelve Eggs (as for No. 3), mix them with the beef, and serve with any kind of garnish. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles.—Put four sliced truffles in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to about half its original bulk, which will take about two minutes ; add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and season with salt and pepper. Break twelve Eggs into the saucepan, and mix well with a spatula or knife for three minutes on a quick fire without ceasing. Turn into a hot dish, and serve. Shanklin Eggs.—Boil six Eggs until hard, put them in cold water, peel them when cold, and cut a small piece off the top of each. Scoop out the yolks, being as careful as possible so as not to break the whites, put them in a mortar with ten olives, and pound them to a smooth paste. Season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, fill the whites with the mixture, and put the tops on again. Cut six rounds of bread about lin. in thickness, and cut a small circle half-way through the centre of each. Put a lump of clarified fat or lard in a stewpan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises, put in the rounds of bread and fry them a pale golden colour. Drain the rounds, and cut out the bread where the circle is marked, thus leaving a hollow place deep enough to stand one of the Eggs in. Fix the Eggs in the pieces of bread, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish tastefully with parsley, and serve. Shirred Eggs.—Butter the inside of a deep plate, break into it as many Eggs as will cover the bottom, shake a little pepper and salt over them, place bits of butter all over, put them into a moderately hot oven, and in five minutes they will be done.567 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, etc,, referred to, sec under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Eggs —continued. Sliced Eggs.—Put a good-sized lump of butter into a frying- pan, melt it, put in a heaped teacupful of breadcrumbs and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and stir them over the fire until crisp and browned; then stir in 1 teacupful of sour cream and a small quantity of salt. Peel and cut the requisite quantity of hard-boiled Eggs into thin slices, lay them side by side in the frying-pan with the crumbs and cream, and fry them, stirring gently for two or three minutes. Arrange the Eggs on a hot dish, pour the cream over, and serve. Spanish. Eggs.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed rice into a saucepan with igall. of boiling milk, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil until done. Strain the rice, drain on a colander, and put it in a basin ; then add 2oz. of butter, mix well, and spread it evenly on a dish. Cut six hard-boiled Eggs into slices, arrange these on the rice, and serve. Spun Eggs for Garnishing Ham.—This very high-class garnish requires skill and special apparatus to prepare. Slightly beat the yolks of fifteen Eggs, and pass them through a sieve. Boil some light syrup in a sugar-pan, then pour the beaten yolks through a wide-mouthed colander (pierced at the bottom with five or six small tin pipes of the diameter of vermi- celli, and soldered outside in relief) in the boiling syrup. When set, drain the spun Eggs in a sieve, sprinkling a little cold water over to prevent them sticking to each other. Put the ham on a dish, with a frill on the bone, garnish with the Eggs, and serve. Steamed Eggs.—Break in separate cups as many Eggs as are required to cover the bottom of a shallow dish the size of the steamer. Butter the dish, slip the Eggs on to it, put a small piece of butter and a little salt and pepper on each, and set the dish in the steamer for three minutes or longer, until the Eggs are cooked. A colander set over a kettle of boiling water will serve for steaming the Eggs, if it can be closely covered. Stewed Eggs.—Cut four moderate-sized Spanish onions into slices, put them in a stewpan with butter, and fry until brown ; mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir until blended with the butter, then mix in gradually about J pint of milk, season- ing to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; put in four hard-boiled Eggs cut in slices, and stew the whole at the side of the fire until hot. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve very hot. Stewed Eggs and Asparagus.— Cut off sufficient of the green tops of asparagus about jin. long to fill a breakfast-cup, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until tender; then turn them into a colander and drain. Lightly beat ten Eggs, put them into a stewpan, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, add 1 table-spoonful of warm water, and stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until they begin to thicken ; then put in 6oz. of butter, and stir until the butter is dissolved. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in the asparagus, and simmer for about five minutes, stirring occasionally. Turn the Eggs and asparagus on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Fig. 708. Stuffed Eggs. Stuffed Eggs.—(1) Peel off the shells of twelve hard-boiled Eggs, cut them transversely in halves, remove the yolks, and put these in a mortar. Take eight anchovies, skinned and boned, a small lump of butter, some breadcrumbs moistened with a little milk, and pound them with the yolks of three raw Eggs, seasoning to taste. Fry in a stewpan 2 table- Eggs —continued. spoonfuls of chopped onions till brown, add 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms, season with powdered sweet herbs, and sprinkle over breadcrumbs and chopped parsley; when cool, mix them with the pounded preparation. Fill the whites of the Eggs with this. Melt some butter in a sautt'-pan, put in the Eggs, the cut side uppermost, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with the butter. When the Eggs are done, put two halves together, arrange them in a circle on a dish with sprigs of parsley in the centre and round the base of the Eggs, and serve. See Fig. 708. (2) Boil the Eggs till hard, cirt them lengthwise in halves, take out the yolks, and mash them to a paste with sufficient finely-powdered crackers and softened butter to make the paste hold together, adding and mixing in salt, pepper, powdered celery-seed, and mustard to taste. Fill the empty whites with this paste, and bake them a light brown. Arrange on a dish, and serve with any kind of garnish. (3) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped cooked ham in a mortar, with 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies and a small quan- tity of cayenne, and pound it to a paste. Boil some Eggs till hard, put them in cold water, and peel off the shells ; chop off thin slices from one end of the Eggs, cut them transversely in halves, and take out the yolks. Put the yolks in a mortar with a third of their quantity of fresh butter, pound them, mix the pounded ham with them, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, and grate in a little nutmeg. When smooth, stuff the halves of the Eggs with the mixture, put two together, and arrange them on a fiat dish, the pointed end upwards, with a border of well-washed young lettuce-leaves round them for garnish. Serve with mayonnaise salad dressing. (4) Boil eighteen Eggs till hard, remove their shells, and cut them in halves. Scoop out the yolks, put them in a mortar with Jib. of butter, mix in a little grated nutmeg, cream, salt and pepper to taste, and pound well for thirty minutes or so ; then add two Eggs to bind the forcemeat. Scoop out a little of the white, leaving sufficient thickness on the outside, so that when the stuffing is put in it will not break. Take half the halves, and fill them with the forcemeat; fill the other half with more of the forcemeat mixed with a little chopped parsley. Pile a little of the forcemeat on a dish, arrange the stuffed Eggs all round, place the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and serve quite hot. Stuffed Eggs with Bacon.—Boil hard eight Eggs, peel and cut them in halves, scoop out the yolks, and put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped cooked veal or chicken, one chopped shallot, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and two boned anchovies. Pound these ingredients together to a smooth mass, mix with them 4oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and a small quantity of powdered allspice. Bind the mixture with beaten Egg, fill the halves of the whites with it, brush them over with beaten Egg, arrange in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and turn them occasionally until browned. Fry some rashers of bacon, arrange them on a hot dish, stand the halves of Eggs on I them, and serve. Sunset Eggs. -Put one dozen Eggs into an omelet-pan with a little warmed butter, dust over with salt, and fry for three minutes ; turn up the sides to prevent them from spreading too much, and when they are done, take them out, dust over with pepper, mask with tomato sauce, and serve. Surprise Eggs.—(1) Break the required number of Eggs into a pan of boiling water to poach, but without cooking them hard; take them out, put them in a basin, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, finely-chopped parsley, and salt, and steep for several hours ; take them out again, drain, put them into a batter, then into some bread- or biscuit- crumbs, and fry them one or two at a time in boiling fat until done to a light brown. Put some sprigs of parsley on a dish, put the Eggs on the parsley, and serve. (2) Take six Eggs, and with a very sharp knife and a file remove one end of the shells, and pour out the contents into a saucepan, with 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, 2oz. of butter, a little cream, cayenne, sweet herbs, and salt ; whisk well, put the pan on the fire, and stir until the Eggs begin to set. Fill up the Egg-shells with this, replace the piece that was filed off, and serve the Eggs in cups. GreatTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 568 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Eggs—continued. care must be taken in filling the Eggs not to crack the shells in the slightest, or it would spoil the effect. Topsy-turvy Eggs.—Butter the interior of several small patty-pans, and strew grated breadcrumbs over them, shaking out any that do not adhere; break an Egg into each one, taking care to keep the yolks intact, place them on a hot stove until the whites are set, then turn them upside down out on to a hot dish, and serve. Whites of Eggs Cooked in Bladders.—Beat up the whites of one dozen Eggs with 1 gill of rose-water and a flavouring of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and mix well. Take four small bladders, put into each one-fourth of the beaten white of Egg, tie each bladder into the shape of an Egg, put them into hot water, and boil for half-an-hour. Let them get cold, turn the contents out of the bladders, and lay them in a glass dish. Mix together the strained juice of half an orange, 1 gill of red wine, and i pint of rich cream; sweeten with white sugar, and pour it over the Eggs before serving. EGG-PLANT FRUIT (Fr. Aubergine; Gcr. Melan- zanapfel).—At one time the fruit of the Egg-plant (Sola- num Melongena) was used in kitchens indiscriminately with tomatoes, to which it is allied. Modern cooks have recognised that these remarkable fruit admit of considerable variety of artistic culinary treatment, and have, therefore, devised receipts for their prepa- ration. The two sorts out of many that mostly find favour in kitchens are the long (see Eig. 709) and the round (see Eig. 710), both of which date their origin from the East Indies. They ai-e sometimes called Mad- apples, as fitting com- panions for tomatoes, which are Love-apples. Baked Egg-plant Fruit.— (1) Peel an Egg-plant Fruit of medium size, cut it into slices iin. thick, sprinkle with salt, lay them in a deep bowl, and let them stand in a cool place for an hour. Soak 1 pint of stale bread in cold water. Fry the Egg- plant Fruit in a frying-pan of smoking-hot fat; when one side is brown, turn them, and brown the other; when all are brown, remove them from the frying-pan with a skimmer, and lay them on a dish. Put four peeled and sliced tomatoes into the same frying-pan, adding more fat if there is not sufficient in the pan, and fry them for five minutes. Then squeeze the bread in a colander to remove any excess of water, add it to the tomatoes, season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, and stir over the fire until scalding hot. If fresh tomatoes are not obtainable, tomato sauce or tinned tomatoes can be used. When the bread and tomatoes are hot, put them into a baking-dish in layers with the fried Egg-plant Fruit, dust breadcrumbs or cracker-dust over the top, season with salt and pepper, put 1 table-spoonful of butter in small pieces over them, set the dish in a very hot oven until the crumbs are brown, and serve hot. Cold fried Egg-plant Fruit can be used for this. (2) Boil three or four Egg-plant Fruit in plenty of water till tender, skin them, and mash in a basin with a little butter and grated breadcrumbs; put them in a shallow dish, grate more breadcrumbs over, bake in the oven until brown, and serve. (3) Cut a medium-sized Egg-plant Fruit into halves, score it deeply on both sides, rub salt and pepper into the cuts, put it into a pan with 1 piled table-spoonful of butter spread Fig. 709. Long Egg-plant Fruit. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. over, bake till tender, and serve with the gravy it yields poured over. Baked Egg-plant Fruit with Cheese.—Peel and cut in slices three parboiled Egg-plant Fruit, press the juice out of them, and fry over a sharp fire. When done, season to taste, thicken with a little bechamel sauce, arrange them on a dish in layers, alternately with grated Parmesan, baste with butter, bake for twenty minutes, and serve. Boiled Egg-plant Fruit with Curry.—Wash the fruit and boil it. Peel and chop a small onion and a green chilli, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. When the Egg-plant Fruit is cooked, cut it open and scoop out all the pulp. Work this up with 1 teaspoonful of mustard and a few drops of salad-oil, and mix in the onion and chilli; it is then ready for serving, and will be found excellent with curry. Broiled Egg-plant Fruit.—Peel an Egg-plant Fruit, cut it into six slices lin. thick, put them in a dish, season with salt and pepper, and pour over 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil. Mix well, arrange the slices on the broiler, and broil for five minutes on each side. Remove them from the fire, place on a hot dish, spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Egg-plant Fruit au Gratin.—(1) Peel five or six Egg-plant Fruit, and cut them lengthwise into slices; thickly butter the interior of a baking-dish, having first rubbed it over with a little garlic, put in the slices of fruit in layers, with bread- Fig. 710. Round Egg-plant Fruit. crumbs, finely-chopped parsley, sweet herbs, and salt and pepper in moderate quantities. Warm ^lb. or so of butter, pour it over the slices, cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, and set the dish in the oven. When cooked, brown the top with a salamander, and serve in the same dish. (2) Boast the fruit in a Dutch oven before the fire, then split them open and carefully scoop out all the interior; mix with the pulp a small quantity of finely-minced onion and green chillies, a small lump of butter, and salt to taste, work well together, and fill the skins with it; lay them open in a buttered gratin-dish, cover them with grated bread- crumbs, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and brown in a brisk oven. Serve in the same dish. Egg-plant Fruit Fritters.—(1) Boil the Egg-plant Fruit in salted water, mixed with a little lemon-juice; when tender, skin, drain, and mash them. For every pint of pulp add § break- fast-cupful of flour, two well-beaten eggs, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Shape into small fritters, put them in boiling fat, and fry both sides till brown. These can be used as a garnish, or served separately as a vegetable. (2) Boil the Egg-plant Fruit cut in slices, without being peeled, in salted water for a few minutes. Drain, dip them in batter, and fry brown in hot lard. Put them in a shallow baking-tin in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Serve as a garnish for savouries, or separately. (3) Peel a medium-sized Egg-plant Fruit, cut it up into six slices about £in. in thickness, and sprinkle over f tea-THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 569 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces first in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in hot fat for five minutes. Remove them, dust over more salt if required, drain, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. (4) The same as for No. 2, covering the fruit with egg- and-breadcrumbs instead of batter before frying. (5) This is prepared in the same way as for No. 2, with the exception of dipping the slices in flour instead of batter. Egg-plant Fruit Omelet. — Peel and scrape out the seeds of an Egg-plant Fruit, finely chop it, put it in a basin with a little salt, and pour boiling water over. Beat six eggs, mix with them 1 table-spoonful of well-washed and dried currants, double that quantity of blanched and peeled almonds or pistachios, 3 table-spoonfuls of fried minced mutton, and the Egg-plant Fruit. Season with powdered cinnamon and pepper, and stir the ingredients until well mixed. Put wlb. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, pour in the omelet mixture, and fry until browned on both sides. Put a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and turn the omelet quickly on to it. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Egg-plant Fruit Pilau.—Cut an Egg-plant Fruit in four pieces crosswise, take out the seeds, cut the pieces into slices about lin. in thickness, put them in a basin with a little salt, cover with boiling water, and in about ten minutes drain them. Put two finely-chopped onions in a saucepan with lOoz. or 12oz. of butter, place them over the fire until nearly browned, then put in the slices of Egg-plant Fruit and fry for a few minutes. Pour in lqt. of hot water and 1 pint of clear broth; add salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan over the fire until boiling, then put in l jlb. of well-washed rice, boil slowly until all the moisture has evaporated, then move the rice to the side of the pan, and leave it for ten or fifteen minutes. It does not require stirring while cooking; each grain should be whole and separate. Turn the pilau out on to a hot dish, and serve. Egg-plant Fruit Pudding.—Cut an Egg-plant Fruit into quarters, let it soak for twelve hours in salted water to remove the bitterness, parboil in more water, skin it, chop up finely, add to each pint of the fruit 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs, 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and season with pepper and salt. Bake for twenty minutes in a shallow dish in a moderate oven, and serve. Fried Egg-plant Fruit.—Cut the Egg-plant Fruit into slices of a moderate thickness, and steep them in salted water for about half-an-hour. Drain them, flour well, put them in a frying-pan with plenty of butter, and fry till browned. Peel three cloves of garlic, pound them in a mortar, season with a small quantity of salt, pour in 2 wineglass- fuls of vinegar, and stir well. Lay the slices of Egg-plant Fruit in a baking-dish, pour the sauce over them, stand the dish on a trivet over a slow fire until all the moisture is absorbed, and serve hot. Fried Egg-plant Fruit with Maitre-d'Hotel Sauce. Cut the fruit into moderately thick slices, and rub them over with salt and pepper and a small quantity each of turmeric and green chillies. Fry in boiling lard. When cooked, drain as free from the fat as possible, place them on a hot dish, pour maitre-d'hotel sauce over, and serve. Mashed Egg-plant Fruit (Indian Style). —Cut a large onion into slices, place it in a dish or basin, add two hot green chillies also cut up into slices, squeeze over the juice of a sweet lime, and soak for several hours. Put a couple of fine young Egg-plant Fruit (brinjals) in a quick ash fire, roast them, take them out when done, remove all the burnt parts, open them, and scoop out as much of the in- side as possible. Put this into a basin, add 1 teaspoonful each of salt and mustard-oil, and work the whole to a pulp, rejecting all the lumps. Now add the onions and chillies, and as much of the lime-juice as required. Mix thoroughly, and the preparation is ready for use. Mussaca. This is a Moldavian mode of cooking the fruit of the Egg-plant, and it is strongly recommended by Dubois. Cut five or six Egg-plant Fruit into halves lengthwise in the form of a wedge. Sprinkle over salt, and let them remain for a few minutes so as to extract the water. Wipe them dry, put them Egg-plant Fruit—contimied. in a frying-pan, fry on both sides, then place on a sieve to drain. Take six more Egg-plant Fruit, peel them, cut into rather thick slices, sprinkle over a little salt, and let them macerate for a few minutes ; then wash them well and dry on a cloth, sprinkle over with flour, and fry also on both sides, putting them when done on a sieve to drain. Remove the skin and bone from a loin of mutton, cut the meat transversely into collops, put them in a frying-pan with a little lard and trimmings of ham and bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and fry quickly. Season with more salt and pepper if required, take out the collops, and put them on one side to cool. Put two chopped onions in a saucepan, fry them, but without letting them take colour, add a few handfuls of chopped mushrooms, and when their moisture is reduced put the pan on the side of the fire and add the mutton. Sprinkle over a little finely-minced parsley and breadcrumbs, and thicken with yolk of egg. Put the slices of Egg-plant Fruit at the bottom and sides of a charlotte-mould well rubbed with lard, keeping them close together and leaving no space between them, fill up the centre with alternate layers of the halves of Egg-plant Fruit and mutton mixture, and when the mould is full cover over the top with a piece of buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Picklecl Egg-plant Fruit.—Select the requisite quantity of Eg'g-plant Fruit, remove the stalks, and split the fruit length- wise into three or four slices without separating them at the base. Scald and drain, put them in a wicker basket with a plate over, place a weight on this, and leave them for several hours, or until all the bitter water has been extracted. Peel and cut into halves twelve or fourteen cloves of garlic, finely chop a handful or so of parsley and two or three white sticks of celery, and mix them with the garlic. Stuff between each slice of the Egg-plant Fruit with the mixture, binding them round to prevent it falling out, then arrange them in a stone jar, pour in sufficient vinegar to cover them, place a plate over with a weight on the top, and leave for three weeks or a month. At the end of that time the pickle is ready for use. Stewed Egg-plant Fruit with Onions.—(1) Cut an Egg- plant Fruit lengthwise into thin slices, dust them over with salt, and let them remain until the bitter juice is extracted. Drain, put them in a frying-pan with olive oil or butter, and brown over a brisk fire. Take them out of the pan, and lay them at the bottom of a baking-dish. Peel four moderate-sized onions, cut them into slices, put them into the frying-pan, adding more butter or olive oil if required, and fry till well browned. Lay the onions over the Egg-plant Fruit, season with salt and 3 teaspoonfuls of honey or sugar, pour in 1 teacupful of water and half that quantity of vinegar, and set the pan over a slow fire. When the moisture is nearly all absorbed, arrange the Egg-plant Fruit and onions on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut about half-a-dozen Egg-plant Fruit lengthwise into quarters, but without separating them from the stalks ; rub them over with salt, and leave them for several minutes to extract the bitter juice. Peel four onions, cut them into thickish slices, put them in a frying-pan with olive oil or butter, and fry till lightly brown. Put half of the onions at the bottom of a saucepan, then put in the Egg-plant Fruit, and cover them with the remainder of the onions. Peel four cloves of garlic, put them in the pan, pour over 2J breakfast-cupfuls of water, set the saucepan over the fire, and stew until the Egg-plant Fruit are cooked. Turn out on to a dish, and serve. Stewed Egg-plant Fruit with Tomato Sauce (Turkish).— Cut off the ends of several small Egg-plant Fruit, scoop out the interior with a spoon, and mix with it an equal quantity of uncooked rice and minced mutton ; season with pepper and salt. Fill the skins with the mixture, score them across, and in each incision put a little finely-chopped onion. Place the fruit thus prepared into hot dripping for two minutes, take them out, drain, and put in a stewpan ; cover with thin tomato sauce, and stew till tender over a slow fire. Place them on a dish, cover with the sauce, and serve. StufFecl Egg-plant Fruit. —(1) Wash and dry six Egg-plant Fruit; cut off the tops without detaching so that they will serve as lids. Scoop out all the insides, and season inwardly with salt and pepper. Chop very fine one medium-sized peeled onion, put it in a saucepan with ^oz. of butter, and cook forTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 570 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. three minutes over a brisk fire, taking care not to brown it. Add six chopped mushrooms and loz. of sausage-meat, season with salt and pepper, and cook for three minutes longer, stirring continually. Now put in the insides of the fruit, finely chopped, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley; mix thoroughly, and cook for two minutes longer, or until the preparation commences to boil. Turn it into a basin when cold, stuff it into the Egg-plant Fruit skins, replace the lids, put the fruit gently on a dish or a tin plate, cover them with buttered paper, bake in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes, and serve. (2) Put the fruit in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil until tender ; drain, cut them in halves, and scoop out their insides, leaving a wall about iin. thick. Free some cold cooked veal or fowl from any skin, fat, and gristle, and chop it; then put it in a mortar with the pulp of the fruit, first picking out all the seeds, add a few sweet herbs and chopped mushrooms, and pound the whole until smooth. Season to taste with salt and pepper, put the mixture in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes. If too dry it may be moistened with a small quantity of stock or gravy. Fill the Egg-plant Fruit with this, levelling it smoothly over the top, spread a layer of grated breadcrumbs over each, and pour in 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter. Lay them side by side on a baking-dish, put them in a brisk oven for a few minutes to brown on the top, or they may be browned under a salamander. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the fruit on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Cut the stalks off the Egg-plant Fruit, also a piece about the size of a penny from the top of each ; scoop out the insides, being careful not to make a hole at the other end, and put them in a basin of salted water. Finely mince about 21b. each of mutton and moderate-sized onions, wash 1 teacupful of rice in plenty of water, mix it with the meat and onions, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the fruit with the mixture, and replace their tops, but putting them upside down. Break four or five eggs in a basin, and beat them well; dip the stuffed fruit in the eggs, put them in a frying-pan with hot butter, and fry. When done, drain, and prick them here and there with a fork. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with some small mutton-bones, lay in the Egg-plant Fruit, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour in sufficient water to cover, and simmer at the side of the fire until the moisture is reduced. Take the fruit out of the gravy, and arrange them on a hot dish. Beat two eggs into the gravy, stir at the side of the fire till thick, but without boiling, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the Egg-plant Fruit, and serve. (4) Cut a good-sized Egg-plant Fruit into six equal parts, without detaching them. Make four incisions inside each piece, and fry them for one minute in boiling fat; dig out the fleshy part of the fruit with a scoop, and fill it with any desired forcemeat. Sprinkle the tops with breadcrumbs and a little clarified butter, brown it in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. (5) Cut the Egg-plant Fruit into halves, scoop out most of the interior, mince it fine, add an equal quantity of bread- crumbs to it, season highly with salt, pepper, and butter, and put the mixture again into the rind, heaping each half. Place the halves in an earthen dish which can be sent to the table, bake until tender, and serve hot. (6) Syrian Style.—Cut the stalks off several Egg-plant Fruit, and a piece about the size of a penny off the top of each, then steep them in salted water to extract the bitter juice. Trim off most of the fat from a piece of mutton sufficient to stuff the Egg-plant Fruit with, and mince the lean; mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions and i table-spoonful of finely-chopped mint, add also about J teacupful of the inside of the fruit, 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice, and a small quantity of saffron, salt, and pepper. Mix the ingredients well. Stuff the fruit with the mixture, replace their tops, but upside down, lay them in a saucepan with a few small mutton-bones at the bottom to prevent the fruit sticking to the pan and burning, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, pour in sufficient broth to cover, and stew over a moderate fire. When the fruit are soft and the liquor reduced to a thick consistency, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish, pour their gravy over, and serve hot. Egg-plant Fruit—continued. (7) Turkish Fashion.—Cut six Egg-plant Fruit into halves from the stalks to the ends, scoop out some of the inside, lay them on a dish, dust over with salt and pepper, and baste with a few drops of vinegar. Crumble a slice of bread, and soak it in as much milk as it will absorb. Peel and chop a small onion, also a few sprigs of parsley, put these in a mortar with fib. of sausage-meat and some of the pulp of the Egg-plant Fruit, and pound well together, seasoning to taste. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan over the fire until melted. Fill the Egg-plant Fruit with this, tie two halves together, put them in the saucepan with the butter, and fry for ten minutes. Pour f pint of boiling broth over them, and simmer at the side of the fire. When tender, take them out, and put on a hot dish. Mix a small quantity of flour with the gravy, stir it over the fire until thick, then pour it over the fruit, and serve. Stuffed Egg-plant Fruit to imitate Fish. — Select the requisite quantity of rather thin and long Egg-plant Fruit, and with a sharp knife cut the peel to imitate the scales of fish ; cut off the tops, having them about lfin. in diameter, and carefully scoop out the insides, then put them in a basin of salted water to extract the bitter juice. Peel and finely chop four moderate-sized onions, and blanch and peel 2 table- spoonfuls of pistachio-kernels. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire till hot, put in the minced onions, and stir them about until beginning to brown; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, and continue stirring it. When the rice commences to brown, pour in a small quantity of hot water, stir it till the moisture is absorbed, then pour in a little more water, and so on till the rice is nearly cooked. Put about 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered biscuit over the rice, add the pistachios and 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, and season with salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Stir the mixture till all the ingredients are well incorporated, then take the pan from the fire, and leave it till the contents are nearly cold. Drain the Egg-plant Fruit, stuff them with the mixture, replace their tops, only upside down. Lay some mutton-bones at the bottom of a saucepan, put in the Egg-plant Fruit, pour in sufficient water to cover them, and boil gently till getting soft; then drain, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned. Drain the fat from them, arrange tastefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. ELBERFIELD CAKE.- See Cakes. ELDER (jFr. Sureati; Ger. Holimder; Ital. Sambuco; Sp. Sauco).— This very common tree (Sambucus nigra) may be found growing wild in almost all parts of Europe, being valued chiefly for its medicinal properties, the flowers entering into various preparations. For culinary purposes the berries, which grow in large spreading clusters, are mostly used, although the young shoots of the tree are sometimes pickled, and the flowers afford a pleasing aroma and flavour to wines and liqueurs. The juice of the Elderberry, either plain or fermented, is much used for the doctoring of dark wines. Elderberry Brandy.—Put the required quantity of ripe berries into a wine-press to extract the juice. Take four hair cloths and lay one between each press, having the cloths a little broader than the press. When all the juice is out, put the pulp into an open vessel, and pour over just sufficient of the liquor to cover it; let it remain for a week or so, when it can be used for making chutney. Put the juice (the first lot that was taken out) into the cask in which it is to remain, and to every lOgalls. of juice add lgall. of spirit, a little sugar, and a few cloves. It will keep good for fully two years without getting sour. Elderberry Chutney.—Select berries that remain on the tree after those for making ketchup have been picked. Put foz. of ginger, a little mace, and one onion finely minced into a mortar with six cloves, and pound them well. Bub the berries to a pulp (or use the pulp that remains when making Elder- berry brandy) through a fine sieve, put it into an enamelled saucepan, and add the onion mixture, also 2oz. of brown sugar, 1 saltspoonful of cayenne, 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, 3oz. of chopped raisins (sultanas), and 1 teaspoonful of salt. SetTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 571 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Elder—continued. the pan on the fire, boil for five minutes, remove it, cover, and let the mixture get cold. Fill up some wide-mouthed bottles with the chutney, and cork. A few crushed mulberries are a great improvement. Elderberry-and-Grape Jelly.—Take 41b. of ripe grapes and 81b. of Elderberries with their stalks picked off, put them into a preserving-pan on the stove, and let them simmer slowly till the juice comes freely from them; then empty the pan into a jelly-bag and let the juice drain into a basin. Add sugar in the proportion of lib. of sugar to 2 breakfast-cupfuls of juice ; put the sugar and juice into the preserving-pan on the stove, stirring till the sugar is melted, and boil until a little put into a saucer stiffens as it cools. Then take it off the stove, and when partly cooled put it into a fancy glass. Cover well so as to keep out the air until required for use, then turn it out on to a small ornamental glass dish (see Fig. 711), and serve as dessert. Elderberry Ketchup.—(1) Put 6 pints of ripe berries without stalks into a jar, and add 3 pints of vinegar, 4oz. of ginger, twelve anchovies, four blades of mace, and loz. of whole pepper. Set the jar in a slightly-warmed oven and let it remain for ten or twelve hours. Strain off the juice into an enamelled sauce- pan, add the ginger, mace, anchovies, and a little pepper and salt, and boil until the anchovies are quite dissolved. Strain again, and when cold put it into bottles and cork down until wanted. (2) Select ripe berries, pick 1 pint of them from their stalks, put them into a deep basin or jar, add 1 pint of boiling vinegar, and leave them in it for about twelve hours or so. Pour the liquor through a sieve into a saucepan, and press the berries with the bowl of a wooden spoon to extract the juice ; add a little whole ginger, a blade of mace, loz. of shallots, and 1 teaspoonful each of peppercorns and cloves. Put the pan on the fire and boil for seven or eight minutes. When it is cool, put it into bottles with the spices, and cork down securely. Elderbei’ry Syrup.—Procure the berries when quite ripe, pack them in a stone jar, tie a stout piece of paper or bladder over the top, stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, but not sufficiently high to enter the jar, and keep it boiling gently irntil the berries are tender. Strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, measure it, and for every breakfast-cupful allow 1 teacupful of brown sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with the juice, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling. Skim the syrup, move the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour. Pour the syrup into bottles, and cork them tightly. Elderberry Wine.—(1) Put 3galls. of Elderberries into a vessel with 3|galls. of water, 2oz. of allspice, loz. of ginger, and a few cloves, and boil for half-an-hour. Press the berries through a sieve, allow 3jlb. of moist sugar to every gallon, and boil together until the liquor has become clear, removing all the scum as it rises. Pour the liquor into a small cask, leave it until lukewarm, then put in a piece of toast thickly spread with yeast. When fermentation has ceased, bung the cask closely down. In three months’ time the wine will be fit for drinking, and will keep for some years. If fermentation does not commence the day following that which the wine is poured into the cask, take out a little of the wine, boil it, and pour it back again ; if that does not have the desired effect, put in a piece more toast thickly spread with yeast. (2) Put the berries into a large vessel, and for every quart pour in 2qts. of water; boil for half-an-hour, then strain the liquor and press the fruit through a sieve For every 4 pints Elder—continued. of the juice allow ljlb. of rather coarse sugar. Put the sugar and juice into a pan with a small quantity of Jamaica ginger, pepper, and cloves, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Pour the wine into a bai-rel, and proceed as for No. 1, adding, after fermentation, 1 pint of brandy for every 4galls. of wine. (3) Squeeze Ggalls. of Elderberries through a sieve into a large vessel, and mix with them some moist sugar, allowing 3jlb. of sugar for every gallon of fruit; add ilb. of allspice, 2oz. of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, and 7galls. of water. Boil the whole until clear, and keep it well skimmed. Pour the wine into a cask, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Choose ripe berries, set them in a vessel in a heated bread- or stove-oven, and bake for a few minutes. Put them into a hair sieve and strain off the juice. Measure this, and for every pint add igall. of water and 4oz. of sugar. Boil the ■water and sugar for an hour, adding more water every now and then to allow for that which is boiled away in evaporation, so as to have the original quantity after boiling. Let it get cool, and add the juice. Put in a piece of toast thickly covered with yeast, and let the wine ferment in an uncovered vessel for seven or eight days. Put it into a cask with loz. of allspice, lib. of chopped raisins, and loz. of sugar to each ./gall, of water used. Leave it for three or four months, strain it, add ^ gill of brandy, and bottle, corking down securely. Elder-flower Fritters.—Pick the flowers while in bloom; put them in bunches in a basin with a small piece of lemon- peel, strew over caster sugar, and baste them with brandy and a few drops of orange-flower water. Let the flowers Fig. 712. Elder-flower Fritter. marinade for several hours. Prepare a thick frying-batter, dip the flowers in it, fry them in boiling' butter, drain the flowers, put them on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew more sugar over them, and serve. See Fig. 712. Elder-flower Vineg'ar.—Fill a large bottle with Elder- flowers, pour vinegar over them, and let them stand for a fortnight; then strain through flannel, put the liquor into small bottles, and cork. A few leaves of any sweet herb may be put into the bottles with the Elder-flowers, and the taste will be thoroughly infused. Elder-flower Wine.—(1) Bruise lgall. of Elder-flowers and half that quantity of vine-leaves and tendrils with a wooden mallet, put them into a mash-tub with a tap at the bottom (this is most essential), and then prepare the wort. Put 4gall. of water into a saucepan with 31b. of sugar and 31b. of glucose, boil and skim well, pour it into an earthenware vessel to cool, and when nearly cold pour it over the Elder-flowers, &c., in the tub. Now add 1 teacupful of yeast, work it well in, and leave it for seven days; then add finings, stir well, let it remain for another day, draw off carefully so as not to break the crust formed on the surface by the finings, pour it into a cask, bung up when the fermentation has ceased, and in a few weeks’ time it will be fit for bottling. (2) For every -/gall, of water allow ljlb. of loaf sugar and the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon; put them in a large pan and boil for an hour, removing the scum as it rises, and then pour the liquor into a vessel. When lukewarm, mix in for each gallon 1 pint of picked Elder-flowers and 1 table- spoonful of yeast. Stir the wine every day until fermentation ceases, which will take about a week, and for every gallon ofTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 572 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 4-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Elder —continued. liquor put into a cask lib. of chopped raisins, and pour the wine over them, straining it to remove all the flowers. On the following day fix the bung tightly in the cask and keep it in a cool cellar for six months before bottling. (3) Free the flowers from stalks, measure them, and for each quart allow lgall of water and 31b. of loaf sugar. Put the sugar and water in a pan, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an- hour; then pour the boiling liquor over the flowers, and let them work for three days. At the end of that time strain the wine throug'h a fine hair sieve and pour it into a cask. For every 5galls. put in {oz. of isinglass dissolved in cider, and three whole eggs, bung down tightly, and leave for six months. At the end of that time, draw it off into bottles and cork tightly. Keep them in a cool cellar until wanted. Pickled Elder-tops.—Lop off the tops of some young Elder- tree sprouts (about the middle of April is the best time), put them first into boiling water and then plunge them into vinegar with a little pepper and salt; when they are well blanched, bottle, and they are ready for use. Preserved Elderberries.—Put some green grapes into a pan on the stove, and let them heat very gently till the pulp can be freed from pips and skins by rubbing through a coarse hair sieve ; weigh this pulp, and to each pound add 31b. of Elder- berries, and to each pound of the combined pulp allow lib. of sugar. Put fruit and sugar together into a preserving-pan, and simmer gently till it begins to get thick, taking off all the scum. Let it cool slightly, put it into glass jars, and cover it so that the air is excluded. ELECTION CAKE.—See Cakes. ELECTUARIES.—These are medicaments mixed up with honey, sugar, or syrup to a thick paste. In some pharmacopoeias they are confounded with confections and conserves, but this is considered incorrect, as in the latter class the sugar is added in much larger proportions, in order to preserve the vegetable matter which constitutes their base. In Electuaries, sugar is used merely to bind the materials together that they may be worked into shape. The word itself is derived from a verb signifying to “ lick ”—these medicines being usually “ licked ” away. See Confections. ELVA.—This is the name of a favourite Turkish pudding, which is prepared as follows: Put lib. of butter in a stewpan over the fire; when some- what browned, sprinkle in gradually Jib. of semolina, and cook until it is browned also; boil lib. of loaf sugar in J pint of milk; blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, split them lengthwise in halves, and mix them in with the semolina; pour the boiling milk over slowly, and stir at the side of the fire until reduced to a thick paste. Binse out a mould with cold water, pour in the mixture, and keep it in a cool place. When set and cold, turn the pudding on to a dish, and serve. EMULSIONS.—These are preparations of the nature of milk, being formed by the mechanical admixture of oil and water by means of some other substance that possesses the power of combining with both. The “ British Pharmacopoeia” prescribes a variety of medicinal Emul- sions, none of which can be consistently described in a book on Cookery; but there are other Emulsions frequently prepared almost unconsciously by the cook, such as in mixing liaisons, salad-dressings, or making butter sauce (melted butter), which are duly described under their various headings. The two following are worthy of special notice, the one as a pleasant nutritive vehicle for un- pleasant medicines, such as castor or cod-liver oil; and the other as the most nutritious and readily-digested food that can be given to an infant or invalid. Emulsion of Almonds.—(1) Beat up in a mortar 2oz. of blanched almonds until they are a smooth paste, adding a little water during the pounding to prevent the almonds oiling ; work in gradually 1 pint of water, and strain through a piece of gauze. This may be sweetened by stirring in 2oz. of caster sugar, either flavoured or plain. (2) Take 3 teaspoonfuls of the oil of almonds and 1 table- spoonful each of thick mucilage and syrup; rub these together, Emulsions—continued. adding by degrees 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water and sufficient distilled water to make | pint. This can be used by con- fectioners as almond-milk. Nutritive Emulsion.—Take lib. of raw meat, dither beef or mutton, free from skin, gristle, or fat, and chop it very fine, or pass it twice through a mincing-machine. Pound in a marble mortar two or three blanched sweet almonds, half a bitter almond, and 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar ; when this is being pounded, drop in the meat little by little until it is all thoroughly incorporated. The paste will be rose- coloured and smell very tempting. With this sufficient water may be stirred to convert it into a delicious drink. For elderly persons this can be made still more nourishing by mixing the raw yolks of two eggs in milk and adding that instead of water. For infants the almonds may be omitted, and a little of the uncooked white of egg added. Should a more stimulating food be prescribed, the addition of half or a whole glass of white or port wine may be added. ENDIVE (Fr. Chicoree; Ger. Endivie; Ital. Indivia; S_p. Endibia). — Continental cooks use very large Fig. 713. Broad-leaved Endive. quantities of this plant (Cichorium Endivia) in their salads to give lettuce and other things with which it may be mixed a pungency of flavour that is exceedingly palatable. Into English salads Endive is gradually finding its way, and one variety is probably often eaten for lettuce. There are three kinds known to cooks: the broad-leaved or Batavian (see Fig. 713), known in France as the Escarole; the curly-leaved (see Fig. 714); and the wild Fig. 714. Curly-leaved Endive. (see Barbe de Capucine). Endive is sometimes cooked and served with poultry as a vegetable. Endive Salad.—(1) Well wash two heads of Endive in several waters, and when perfectly free from worms and grit, put them on to a strainer and drain off the water. Cut them up into small pieces with a head of celery, also thoroughly cleaned. Put 1 teaspoonful each of mustard and pepper, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a little salt into a basin, and work them all to a paste, adding a small quantity of cayenne (if not objected to), 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 6 table-spoonfuls of cream, adding the two latter by degrees, and mixing well. Put the salad on a salad-dish, surround it with slices of beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and pickled gherkins, pour over the dressing, and serve. (2) Pare off the green leaves from two heads of white Endive and cut away the roots, wash thoroughly, drain well on a napkin, place them in a salad-bowl, season with salt and pepper diluted with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and add573 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Endive—continued. 1J- table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil. Mix thoroughly together, and serve. (3) Pare off the green leaves and cores of two heads of fine white Endive; if the Endive be tolerably clean, wipe carefully without washing’ it, as it should not be washed unless the earth adhering to it cannot otherwise be removed. Put it in a salad-bowl, season with salt and pepper, mixing in 2 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, also 1J table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, just before serving. Endive Salad au Cliapon.—Prepare the salad as for No. 2, adding a garlic flavouring. Stewed Endive.—(1) Cut off all the green parts from eight or nine heads of Endive, wash them thoroughly, drain and put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for twenty minutes. Take them out, plunge them into cold water until cold, afterwards draining them and wiping on a cloth. Chop up, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, season with salt and pepper, mix in a little flour, pour over sufficient stock to moisten, and boil until the liquor is reduced. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve with pieces of toast or fried bread for a garnish. A little butter and cream may be added before serving. (2) Boil five or six heads of Endive in salted water, keeping only the white parts; drain, rinse them with fresh water, press the water out, chop, and put them in a saucepan with a little melted butter. Fry them, then sprinkle over a little flour, and add a small quantity of boiled milk and lqt. of broth. Stir this until it bubbles, season well, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for half- an-hour ; then strain through a fine sieve, boil, and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs mixed with J pint of cream. Serve with a plate of bread croutons fried in butter. (3) Select a dozen heads of Endive, and wash them well, taking care to pick out all the worms; strip off all the green part of the leaves, wTash the remainder in cold water, using plenty of it. Parboil them, throw them into cold water, when they will be blanched and the bitter taste removed. Take out, let them get cold, put them on a sieve, and strain out all the water ; chop up very fine, put them into a stewpan with sufficient veal gravy to cover, add 1 teacupful of sugar, and season with salt. Put them on the fire and stew until tender, which can easily be ascertained by taking a little out and pressing it between the finger and thumb. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of reduced Spanish sauce, and use as re- quired, either as a garnish or not. Veloute sauce may be used instead of Spanish sauce, and broth instead of gravy. (4) Cut several heads of Endive into quarters if large, and into halves if small ones. Put them into a saucepan with a little water, parboil them, then strain off the water. Put a small quantity of dried flour in a basin, pour over it a little broth, adding it gradually so as to work it well in, and keep the paste perfectly smooth; season with a little nutmeg, and add a small piece of butter. Put this into the saucepan with the Endive, and stew until it is quite done. It is then ready for serving. A little lemon-juice may be added if desired, and potato-flour used instead of the wheat-flour. Endive prepared in this way can be used for garnish. (5) Pull the heads of Endive to pieces, and wash them thoroughly in plenty of water, drain, put them into a sauce- pan of boiling salted water, and boil till tender; then put them into a colander, and press well to remove all the water. Chop finely, put in a stewpan with loz. of butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt. Stir over the fire for twenty minutes, then mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with them. When cooked, turn the Endive out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (6) French Style.—Clean and pick over five or six heads of Endive, and blanch them by first putting into hot water and then into cold; chop them finely, put into a stewpan with enough broth to cover them, and stew until the Endive is done and the broth all boiled away, leaving it quite dry. Add 4oz. of butter, a little nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, mix them well in, and send quite hot to table. Stewed Endive with Cream Sauce. — Thoroughly clean three large heads of Endive, cut off all the outer green leaves, wash the Endive in several waters, drain, and blanch them in boiling salted water for ten minutes. Remove them, cool Endive—continued. in cold water, then take them out, and press out the water; chop up, place them with 4oz. of butter in a saucepan, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour, or until dry. Pour over 2 wineglassfuls of cream or milk, a very little at a time, reduce, and grate in a little nutmeg, adding salt and pepper to taste; stir well, leave it on the fire for five minutes, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish. Stewed Endive served with Gravy.—Select six large heads of Endive, pare off the outer leaves that are damaged, leaving the roots intact, wash them in several waters, remove, and put them to blanch for ten minutes in boiling salted water. Take out, put them back into cold water, and let them cool thoroughly. Drain, and cut them into halves. Put a piece of lard or lard-skin at the bottom of a saute-pan, add one carrot, one onion, both cut up, and a bouquet garni, place the Endive on top, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, cover over with buttered paper, set the pan on the stove, stew for ten minutes, or until the Endive is a golden colour, then moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of white broth. Put the pan in the oven for thirty minutes ; then arrange the Endive on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve. Stewed Endive with Poached Eggs.—Trim off all the green leaves of the Endive, and wash the heads well in several waters, taking care that there are no worms left in. Blanch in boiling water to remove the bitter taste, then throw them into cold water, let them remain for a few minutes, press out as much of the water as possible, and finely chop the Endive. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient veal gravy to cover it, also a small lump of sugar and salt to taste, and boil gently until tender. Poach a sufficient quantity of eggs, and trim them neatly round. Turn the Endive on to a hot dish, place the eggs on the top, and serve. See Fig. 715. ENFIELD BUNS.—See Buns. ENTRECOTES.—Fr. for rib-steaks cut from between the ribs. They are declared by epicures to be second only to fillet-steaks. ENTREES.—To French cooks we are indebted for this expressive term; and it is significatory of the French origin of these dishes that we have no English term to take its place, nor is there any other representative term used for Entrees in the lan- guage of any other country, even though they form a part of the table service. Entree strictly speaking means “ brought in,” which describes the manner of their service. They are brought in one or more at a time, whilst a “remove” occupies the chief place at a table. By some cooks these “ removes ” (re- leves) are styled Entrees ; but as a matter of fact these re- Fig. 716. Chicken Entree quire some other name, as they Mould (Temple and Crook), usually consist of large solid dishes. The term “ removes” hardly expresses their import- ance ; but until we find another and better term, we must be content with this. Entrees, as understood in this574 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saxtces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fig. 717. Cutlet Entree Mould (Ttrnple and Crook). Entrees—continued. country, partake more of the character of side dishes; but are not always placed upon the table, the prevailing custom being to hand them round to the guests, so that each guest can take one portion which shall be strictly representative of the whole. An ingenious French culinary artist asserts that the term Entree signifies the real com- mencement of the cook’s art; but this is rather a stretch of culinary enthusiasm, that is if any merit whatever is due to the hors-d’oeuvres, soups, and removes. Entrees are so numerous that it would be impossible to name them, although they can be partially classified, as hot and cold, and those that are served plain (Entrees fines) and those that are elaborated (Entrees travailles). For instance, a dish of quails would be a plain Entree, the birds being served plainly prepared ; but croquettes, cromeskies, salmis, fricassees, and dishes of that class, com- monly called “made dishes,” are elaborated Entrees. As the ingenious and ar- tistic cook will understand, Entrees may be prepared from indefinite sources, and the skill of the cook is frequently in- dicated by the tact he uses to convert what he has at hand into tasty Entrees. For this purpose he invites mechanical assistance to give form and appearance to his production, and uses contrivances, such Flo. 718. as moulds, to give the out- ward distinguishing semblance of the material which he has been transmogrifying by working it up with others of a more tasty character. Besides the moulds and other apparatus described Ham Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). Entrees—continued. in Fig. 718, ox-tongue in Fig. 719, fish in Fig. 720, and crayfish in Fig. 721. The modes of preparing these will be found under their respective headings. Fig. 721. Crayfish Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). Urbain Dubois says of hot Entrees, in his magnificent work on artistic cookery, that to be perfect they must be dressed to a nicety, neatly dished up, and served very hot. For this purpose metal dishes are used (see Fig. 722), sometimes fitted with hot-water cases (see Fig. 723). Their value is especially enhanced by the sauces, which must be of a fine colour, delicate, and savoury. Fig. 719. Ox-tongue Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). under Cutlets and other headings, the following inge- nious moulds are worthy of attention. They are used for giving shape to various forcemeats, thus: forcemeat Fig. 720. Fish Entree Mould (Temple and Crook). of chicken might be moulded in Fig. 716, lobster or other forcemeat cutlet in Fig. 717, forcemeat of ham Numerous receipts for Entrees are given throughout this Encyclopaedia, some of them being rare and delicate, and either simply or luxuriously served. ENTREMETS. — The literal signification of this term would be “ go-betweens,” that is to say, side-dishes of dainties to which the guests can help themselves. They are now almost exclusively sweets of one kind or another, or rare vegetables, and form a very important feature at a dinner, whether simple or luxurious. Punch a la Romaine is served as an Entremet. EFERXiANS.—Fr. for smelts; sometimes the term is erroneously used for sprats. EFIG-RAMMES. — A French culinary term that seems to have little or no reason for its existence. Kettner states that it arose from ignorance. A wealthy French financier heard from a French nobleman that he had been dining with a poet who regaled them atTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 575 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sa^lces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Epigrammes—continued. dessert with an epigramme. The financier went home to his cook and asked him, “ How comes it that you never send any Epigrammes to my table P ” On the following day the cook sent up what he entitled “ Epigrammes of Lamb,” and the name remains.—See Fowl, Partridges, Pigeons, Rabbits, Roebucks, &c. EFINARD.—Fr. for spinach. EQUIVALENTS. —In some kitchens where there are no scales or measures it is usual to express quantities by what are termed Equivalents. Thus, half-a-pint may be roughly described as a breakfast-cupful, and a gill is equal to a teacupful of fluid measure. With dry measure a similar scale is used, and these have been most care- fully arranged, and a reliable scale drawn up and issued under the Tables of Weights and Measures. ERGOOS.—The name of a common Turkish and Egyptian drink made from liquorice, and sold in the streets like sherbet. ERYNGO.—A plant of the genus Eryngium, com- monly known along the coasts as Sea Eryngo (Eryngium maritimum), or Sea Holly. It has short, rigid leaves and stems, and tliistle-like blue flowers. The roots are fleshy and cylindrical, and used for preparing a sweetmeat called candied Eryngo root, or Eryngo candy. The leaves, when quite young, are sometimes pickled in vinegar and used to garnish salads. The Eryngo of the United States is fetid and unfit for food. ESCABESCIA. — This is taken from the Spanish escabeschar■—to pickle, or souse. It is a mode of preparing certain meats, such as fish, game, or poultry. ESCALLOPS.—See Scallops. ESCARGOTS.—Fr. for edible snails. ESCAROLE—See Endive. ESCULENT. — A word often applied to vegetables and other things, signifying that they are edible. ESPAGNOLE.—Fr. for Spanish, as sauce a l’Espag- nole. ESSENCES.—Under this heading are included those productions which may be said to contain in a concen- trated form all the particular virtues belonging to that from which they are obtained. Vegetable Essences are generally prepared from the essential oils, by dissolving a certain quantity in a fixed proportion of spirits of wine. The cookery Essences are prepared by boiling down or reducing, as in Essence of beef, chicken, &c. Essences used for flavourings are as numerous as the flavourings themselves; but they require very careful preparation, lest in the reduction the flavour should be altered by heat. At one time it was necessary for cooks and confectioners to prepare their own Essences; but this is now entirely obviated by such excellent prepara- tions as the herb and fruit Essences prepared by Messrs. Langdale and other manufacturers. Meat Essences are of more recent introduction, and several have been rendered famous by publicity, those generally favoured being Brand’s Essence of Beef, Mutton, Chicken, or Yeal, Edge’s Essence of Beef and some others described under Extracts. ESSEX PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. ESTURGEONS.—Fr. for sturgeons. ETHER.—A light, volatile, mobile, inflammable liquid of a characteristic aromatic odour, obtained by the distillation of alcohol with sulphuric acid, and hence called also sulphuric Ether. It is not much known in cookery, excepting as the results of various distillations, and other processes from which characteristic odours are produced. EUCALYPTUS, — A tree (Eucalyptus globulus) of the myrtle species, which is found growing to extra- ordinary height in the forests of Australia; the leaves are aromatic, and from them a pleasant liqueur can be prepared as follows: Put 21b. of dried Eucalyptus-leaves into a jar, with 8oz. of orange-flowers and 5oz. of juniper-berries, pour over lgall. of pure spirit, cork securely, give the jar a shake daily for a week, and then let it stand for another week. Strain and filter, add 2qts. of clarified syrup, and bottle. EVERTON TOFPY.—See Toffy. EVE’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. EXTRACTS.—There is very little difference, practi- cally speaking, between Extracts and essences. The former should signify that the active principle has been extracted, and the latter that it has been produced in a high state of condensation. But a want of appreciation of this subtle distinction has eventuated in the indis- criminate use of the two terms. “ Essence of meat ” and “ Extract of meat,” such as Liebig’s Extractum Carnis, are one and the same thing. Extracts of coffee, which have found much favour, are merely condensations of the infused liquor, and upon the same principle condensed milk might be termed Extract or essence, according to fancy. Extracts worthy of special notice are described under special headings. FADGES.—These are not now very generally known in England, although at one time they were favourite provincial cakes or loaves. In Ireland they still seem to keep up a desultory reputation. They are there made as follows : Pour ^ pint of new milk into a saucepan on the fire, add 3oz. of butter, and melt it, shaking- the pan continually, one way, so that it may not burn. Sift lib. of flour and a little salt into a bowl, make a bay in the centre, pour in the milk, and stir to a paste. Put it on a board, flour a roller, and roll the paste out to about fin. in thickness. Cut it into cakes, lay them on a griddle over a clear fire, and cook, turning them frequently to prevent burning. FAGOTS.—The origin of this term is possibly derived from the Greek phakelos—a bundle, which would thus plainly indicate that the word should be spelled with one “ g ” only, not with two, as is generally done in culinary literature. The application in cookery is somewhat varied and uncertain. At one time it was customary for the cook to speak of a Fagot of parsley, a Fagot of herbs, and so on; but foreign introductions have caused con- fusion, Continental cooks styling them “bouquets,” and qualifying them according to the use to which they are adapted; thus, bouquet for mirepoix, bouquet for ravi- gote, &c. This, modern cooks have still further confused by the additional terms, bouquets garnis and fine herbs. We have here endeavoured to establish some sort of classification based on modern practices. Bouquets garnis are used for many purposes, and are described under their own head, and may be considered peculiar to French cooks. Other Fagots are as follow: Fagot cl’Uxelles (Fine Herbs).—This consists of equal weights of mushrooms, parsley, and shallots, minced and fried for five or six minutes with rasped bacon, pepper, and salt. Truffles are sometimes added. Fagot of Mirepoix.—Chop up together finely two carrots, two onions, two shallots, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, Ub. of fat bacon, and £lb. of ham. Toss them in butter for a few minutes and sprinkle over pepper and salt. Fagot of Parsley.—Tie together two or three sprigs of parsley and half-a-dozen spring onions. Used for flavouring a variety of dishes. Fagot of Pot Herbs (Fr. Poele).—This is a mixture of vege- tables and sweet herbs, and usually consists of two carrots, two onions, two cloves, and a Fagot of sweet herbs, all minced576 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fagots—continued. finely together with |lb. of beef-fat, melted over the fire and moistened with broth, seasoned slightly with salt, and rendered piquant by the addition of the juice of a lemon. This differs from mirepoix in that it has less onion and that beef-fat is used instead of grated bacon. See Blanc. Fagot of Ravigote.—A hunch consisting of equal parts of tarragon, chervil, burnet, and chives tied together and used for making ravigotes. Parsley is sometimes added in a similar proportion, but is not recommended. Fagot of Sweet Herbs (Fr. Bouquet garni).—Two or three sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, and three or four small sprigs of thyme. Some cooks add a few spring onions. FAGOTS, 01 FAGGOTS.—This name is' given to some very highly-spiced minced meats, consisting of what are technically called “ trimmings.” The term is pro- bably a corruption of Fag-ends, or Fag-orts, one being quite as probable as the other. The ingredients used in their wholesale manufacture are not generally very select, but Fagots made from the following receipt are really excellent: Baked Fagots. — Finely chop Rib. of either pig’s or calf’s liver, with a third of the quantity of fresh fat pork and one onion ; put the mixture into a stewpan with a small quantity of sage, thyme, and basil, season with salt and pepper, and steam the mixture over the fire for half-an-hour, but without allowing- it to brown. Drain off the fat, leave the mince until cool, then mix in gradually three well-beaten eggs and suffi- cient grated stale breadcrumbs to make it consistent. Season the mixture with grated nutmeg, work it well, then divide and shape it into small balls. Butter the interior of a stew- pan, put in the balls, pour in a small quantity of well-seasoned gravy, put on the lid, and bake in a slow oven. When lightly browned, g-laze the balls with rich brown gravy, arrange them in a group on the centre of a hot dish, garnish with fried watercress or parsley, and serve. A small piece of pig’s caul may be placed over them instead of glazing them. FAHAM.-This is the name given to a tea made from tbe leaves of Angrcecum fragrans, an orchid which grows in the tropics of Africa, the West Indies, and Cape Colony. The species is remarkable for bearing the largest flower of the orchid tribe, one of which, native to Mada- gascar, produces a spore measiu*ing with the petals more than twelve inches. The leaves are very fragrant and odorous, and when dried and infused yield a flavour which is described as between vanilla and almonds. The French grow it in their colonies, especially at Bourbon, and for this reason it is generally known as Bourbon tea. FAIRY BUTTER.—See Butter. FAISANS.—Fr. for cock-pheasants—Faisanes, hen- pheasants—and Faisandeaux, young pheasants from three weeks to six months old. FALERNIAN WINES.—These celebrated wines were originally produced from grapes grown on the slopes of Mount Falernus in Italy, and were considered one of the great features of a Roman banquet. Much of their fame fell with the Roman empire. FALERNUM.—The name given to a sort of cordial liqueur prepared principally in Barbadoes, Tobago, Hon- duras, and where limes are cultivated for export. There are two kinds, white and golden, both being compounded of lime-juice, water, and sugar, with spirit and colouring matter, such as saffron, for the golden. FANCHETTES. — These delicate little pieces of French pastry, the origin of whose name appears to be enveloped in doubt, are made thus .- Line a round mould about 2in. deep with a good tart-paste, and fill it with the following cream : Take ilb. each of sifted flour and caster sugar, and having mixed them thoroughly work in the yolks of twelve eggs. Put 1 pinch of salt into £ pint of double cream, and stir this into the egg mixture. Place it over the fire in a double boiler, or it may be heated in a bain-marie until thick, taking every care that it shall Fanchettes—continued. come as near to boiling as possible without boiling over. It may be cooked in a common stewpan if every care be taken also to prevent it burning, by lifting it off the fire as soon as any indications are given that it is going to boil up. These creams are usually made in the naked stewpan, but inex- perienced cooks might perhaps be safer as at first described. When the case is filled with this cream, it should be baked in a quick oven, and then covered over the top with a good meringue. Any other decoration, such as may be done with Fig. 724. Fanchette Decorated with Candied Fruits. piping in coloured sugars and candied fruits (see Fig. 724), is then added and a little fine sugar dusted over. Put it into a slow oven for a few minutes to set the meringue, and serve hot. A great variety of Fanchettes can be made by changing the flavourings of the cream, coffee and chocolate finding especial favour. The meringue may also be flavoured with noyeau, and the cream with almonds. Also in the matter of decoration there is considerable room for a display of artistic skill and invention. FANCHONNETTES. — These are literally small fanchettes, differing from them in some few particulars that are described in the following receipts. As may Fig. 725. Fanchonnette Decorated with Candied Cherries and Piping. be seen, they admit of endless variety, and offer very great facilities for the display of artistic ingenuity (see Fig. 725). (1) Lightly butter some plain or ornamental patty-pans, line them with puff paste rolled out very thin, Then fill them with the following- cream : Put 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of cornflour into a saucepan with 5 pint of water, and boil for five minutes; then add the juice of a lemon, a well-beaten egg, and 1 teaspoonful of butter, and mix well. Cover over the pans with a very thin paste-crust, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Line the tins as for No. 1, and fill with the following- mixture : Put 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and 3 table- spoonfuls of cornflour into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water and 1 salt-spoonful of salt. Boil for five minutes, and add the finely-grated rind of one and the juice of two large lemons. Let this mixture cool a little, and then add the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, and afterwards the whites, whisked to a stiff froth. Take this mixture up with a spoon and put it in the lined patty-pans, set them in a quick oven, and bake for twenty minutes. They may be covered with a meringue made with the whites of three eggs, and a little less than a teacupful of caster sugar beaten together, and put back again for a few minutes to set the meringue. Ornament to taste.577 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinai-y Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fanchonnettes—continued. (3) Put four egg's into a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and flour, and make them into a paste witli a little milk. Pass it through a sieve into a saucepan, add 2 table- spoonfuls of blanched and chopped almonds, loz. or 2oz. of butter, and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire, stir until the mixture thickens, let it boil for a few minutes, then remove the pan from the fire and stir in 3oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-flavoured sugar. Line a dozen tartlet-moulds with short-paste, fill them with the cream, and bake in a quick oven. Let them cool, cover with a layer of marmalade, and again with some meringue in the form of a pointed dome ; decorate this in dotted circles with coloured icing squeezed through a cornet. Place the Fanchonnettes in a slack oven for the meringue to colour a little and get crisp ; take them out, and when they are cold, set in the small dotted circles a little apple or currant jelly, or halves of crystallised fruit, turn out of the pans, and serve hot. Any other orna- mentation will do as well. (4) Pour 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, when it boils add a stick of vanilla, and continue to boil it until the milk is reduced to j pint. In another saucepan put the yolks of three eggs, ljoz. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, and a small pinch of salt. Take the vanilla out of the milk and pour it into the other saucepan with the eggs, &c. Place the pan over a slow fire, and stir until its contents are quite thick. Line eighteen small tartlet-moulds with puff paste rolled out very thin, leaving- a small edging ; fill them with the mixture when it is cold, place the pans on a baking-sheet, and bake them evenly in a moderate oven. Take them out, and when they are quite cold cover with 1 teaspoonful of meringue, made with the whites of four eggs and 1 teacupful of caster sugar whisked together ; spread this with a knife evenly over the tops, and put a few small buttons made with this meringue round the Fanehonnette, and one larger in the centre. Sprinkle all over with a little caster sugar, and place them in a slow oven to slightly brown and until the meringue is crisp. Take them out of the pans, pile in a heap on a dish, and serve whilst still hot. FANCY BREAD.—What is, or what is not Fancy Bread, is a question that lias puzzled many a wise head. At one time it was held that ornamental bread was Fancy Bread, and exempt from the restrictions affecting house- hold bread. But this led to the innovation of fancy- shaped household, and left the dishonest baker extra- ordinary scope for defrauding his customers by evading the law, whilst the makers of genuine Fancy Bread, which was not only ornamental but composed of the very finest materials, prepared in elaborate ways, gained nothing by their extra labour. The distinction is not yet adequately defined. See Bread. FANDANGO—The name of a Spanish cake, so- called because it is gene-rally served upon those festival occasions when the dance of the same name is in vogue. It is composed of a sort of flat Savarin cake made in a cylinder mould. Soak this in a thin syrup flavoured with almonds, maraschino, rum, and a little oil of aniseed. Fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with kirschenwasser and vanilla, and garnish round with apple jelly. Mask round the side and over all with apricot marmalade, and dust all over a finely-chopped mixture ! of pistachio-kernels and almonds. Decorate with sugar- plums, preserved grapes, sugar-piping, and coloured jellies, j FAN-KOUQUES.— To Austria these delicious little pasty-cakes belong. They are very simply made as follows: Boll out some brioche paste about jin. thick, cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter 3ih. in diameter, and put in the middle of every other one 1 teaspoonful of apricot marma- lade. Spread this, leaving a Jin. margin; wet the margin, lay the plain rounds evenly on those charged with marmalade, and press the edges gently together to make them adhere. Flour a clean pudding-cloth, set the Fan-kouques on it, : cover them over, and stand in a warm place to lighten. Fry them in butter until a light golden-brown, take out, let them drain, and then drop them one at a time into a hot syrup flavoured with rum. Take out and serve at once. FARCES (Ger. Fullen).—Although tills term is still maintained and used in Continental cookery, it finds little or no favour amongst British cooks, who prefer to speak of “stuffing” and “forcemeat,” the latter being a corruption of “ Farce ’’-meat, as explained under its own heading. French cooks profess to have several distinct groups of Farces, each group having its varieties, although in some instances, with the exception of the meat used, the Farces are identical. Amongst those generally prac- tised we find fish Farces, or Farces made of fish; Farces made of veal, poultry, rabbit, game, ham, &c., each and all having some specific part to play in artistic cooking. Further information concerning them will be found under Forcemeat and special headings, such as Fowl, Veal, &c. FARINA (Fr. Farine ; Ger. Mehl).—This term has been introduced into our kitchens by those manufacturers who have given the name to various hours prepared for food and cooking. They are better styled meals, according to the German, which is derived from the same source as mill. The more important kinds of meal will be found described under their appropriate headings, such as Cornflour, Oatmeal, &c. FARES.—A sort of Scotch Oatmeal Cakes.-— See Oatmeal. FARMER’S SALAD.—See Salads. FARMER’S SOUP.—See Soups. FARO.—A Belgian beer, made by mixing two others, the one strong, called lambic, and the other a small-beer, known to the Belgian multitude as mars. The lambic imparts a pleasing vinous flavour to Faro. FAT.—The similarity of the German fett to the English Fat points to their having the same origin, and possibly associated more or less with the word feed. The original of the French equivalent gras, graisse, evidently supplies us with grease. Fat is described as an oily liquid, or greasy substance, making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of vegetables ; but the cook usually understands Fat as of animal origin, that of seeds being known as oil— or in exceptional cases as butter—such as olive oil from olives, and cacao butter from the seed of the cacao, or cocoa-nib. Vegetable Fats are not unimportant to cookery, for we find some entering largely into the operations of the kitchen; but whether as butter, dripping, lard, suet, or the Fat on a joint of meat, animal Fats take precedence, most of them being of sufficient use to require separate treatment under their own headings. See Butter, Dripping, Lard, Suet, &c. Of animal Fat generally, it may be said that it varies in consistence, colour, and odour, according to the animal from which it is obtained. The Fat of flesh- eating animals is usually soft and rank, whilst the Fat of animals living on vegetable growth is solid and nearly scentless. It is whitest and most plentiful in well-fed young animals, and yellowish and more scanty in those that are old. That immediately under the skin and round the kidneys is also more solid than that about other internal organs, containing a greater proportion of stearine, to whose presence fat owes its consistency. In many kitchens Fat is treated as a sort of refuse, to be stored away in pots or other vessels and sold as a perquisite by the cook; but experience shows that every scrap that is trimmed off a joint can lie so pre- pared as to be a culinary acquisition. Let every scrap be carefully collected and put into a stcwpan with a little water at the bottom of it, then stood over a slow fire, being occasionally stirred to prevent pieces sticking to the bottom. After an hour or so of steady warming, the contents of the saucepan should be strained into a basin containing cold water. Thus prepared, this Fat 2 z578 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fat—continued. may be used instead of suet, ov for frying, for which latter purpose it is most serviceable. Concerning Fat for frying, the following very useful observations have been contributed by a chef of great repute: There are several kinds of Fat suitable for this purpose, such as butter, lard, a mixture of lard and suet in equal proportions, dripping, and oil. If suet alone is used the material fried in it must be cooked quickly, as the suet soon cools, and then has a tallowy taste. Dripping should j be clarified and freed from water, or the articles cooked will | soak, or stew in the fat. Lard with a little suet or dripping mixed with it is generally used. The lard should be clarified by putting slices of potato in it, and heating until it becomes quite still. Olive oil is the purest and best fat, and in some j cases cotton-seed oil is used, but it has a very peculiar odour, and is therefore not recommended. When the Fat or oil becomes too brown for frying potatoes, use it for croquettes, and then it can be used for nothing else but j for fish and fish balls. The Fat should always be strained after using, so that any small pieces that may have come off the substance fried, or dropped in, may be removed. Fat is also used by artistic cooks for making orna- mental stands for cold dislies. It is then specially prepared as follows, or may be purchased ready for use under the name of stearine: Put the Fat from a sheep’s kidney into cold water with a few table-spoonfuls of citric acid, and leave it to soak for j twenty-four hours (the skin and veins should be removed before putting the Fat into the cold water). When the Fat is cleaned, take it out, drain, and put it in a saucepan over a moderate fire, cover over the pan, and stir well to prevent its burning or sticking- to the pan. Put it in a cloth and strain it into a basin, let it remain for a few minutes to settle, and then pour off into another basin. Kend down 3qts. of hog’s lard from the Fat of fresh pork, and when it is about the same consistence as the kidney Fat mix them together, and stir with a wooden spoon until the whole becomes quite smooth and frothy; add a few drops of a strong solution of citric acid, and it is then ready for use. If the Fat is required to be very firm do not use quite so much lard, as too much will make it soft. It should be used as soon as possible, and beaten with a spoon to make it white. It may be coloured if desired. When required for modelling figures it is usual to prepare it as above, with this exception, that as soon as it is melted pour it into a basin without working it, and allow it to get quite cold; then turn l it gently out of the basin and scrape the top off in thin j shavings with a knife, rub it well in a damp cloth, and spread it on a table or board. It should then be perfectly j smooth. When wanted for use it must be worked, and not before, as it soon becomes dry and hard. A little white wax may be added while the Fat is hot to give it greater consistency. FATTENING.—It cannot be said that the processes adopted for fattening animal life for food are of any very great moment to the cook, although there may be some interest in the following remarks : At one time the plan adopted was to prevent the animals taking exercise, whilst at the same time they were gorged with fat-forming foods. It has been found by experience that the fat thus accumulated was de- ficient in quality. The system pursued by modern and enlightened farmers, instead of tying up their fattening animals, is to put two or three together in small yards, with sheds attached, in which they can run about, eat J when they choose, and take shelter from the rain, cold, or sun. Pigs and spring lambs are far better treated in this way. Poulti-y are no longer confined in coops and crammed by stuffing them with balls of fattening food; they are allowed to take exercise in fields sown with various herbs, which impart a fine flavour to the flesh. Rabbits are fattened in miniature warrens, wherein they can disport themselves as they will; but the poor unfor- tunate goose which provides foies gras to the gourmet is not so well favoured. It is nailed by its feet to a Fattening—continued. plank, crammed with food, deprived of drink, and placed near a large fire in an unnatural warmth. In this way the liver, which is considered such an extraordinary luxury, becomes infiltrated with fat, and assumes out- rageous proportions. Let the devourers of pate de foie gras think of the terrible life that goose has endured in his service! Will such a reflection render the dainty less toothsome ? FAWN (Fr. Faon; Ger. Hirschkalb; Ital. Cervietto).— The young of the deer does not often find its way into the kitchen; hence cooks are not very profuse as to its mode of treatment. When very young the suspicion arises rather too naturally that it has not been specially slaughtered for the occasion, and this idea creates a prejudice against what is otherwise a very savoury dish. It must be skinned and dressed as venison, but should not be kept longer than is absolutely necessary, as the flesh deteriorates very quickly. Barbecued Fawn.—Select a very young Fawn, skin and clean it, truss in the same way as a hare, and stuff with highly-seasoned forcemeat. Sew it up, put it on a spit or in the oven, and roast until done, basting it frequently with its own liquor mixed up with a little butter. Fifteen minutes or so to each pound should be quite sufficient to Fig. 726. Barbecued Fawn. cook it, but the heat to which it is exposed will vary the time. The Fawn may also be covered with thin slices of fat bacon and then cooked, removing- the bacon five minutes or so previous to serving, so as to brown the meat. When it is done, place it on a dish, garnish with potato croquettes and Brussels sprouts (see Fig. 726), and serve. A Fawn may also be cut into quarters, and then roasted. Roasted Saddle of Fawn.—Lard the fillets and thick part of each leg of a saddle of Fawn, put it into a large bowl with a few sliced onions, a bunch of parsley, and plenty of salt, pepper, and spices ; cover with vinegar, leave it in the pickle for three days, turning it constantly each day so that it may be well seasoned on all sides, then drain and roast. Prepare the following- sauce : Peel and cut into small pieces one carrot, two or three shallots, and a few parsley-roots, put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter, 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped ham, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, half a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, six peppercorns, and a small quantity of allspice. Stir the ingredients over the fire with a wooden spoon until browned, then pour in 1 tea- cupful of white vinegar, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and continue stirring till the moisture has almost reduced to a glaze. Mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce and 1 teacupful of broth; boil the sauce for a few minutes, keeping it well skimmed, then season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. When cooked, place the Fawn on a hot dish; strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve it in a sauceboat. FEASTS {Fr. Fetes; Ger. Feste).—Derived as this word undoubtedly is from the Latin festum—a merrymaking, the reader is led thereby to look back upon the days of Rome’s imperious sway, when luxurious living was the rule, and a Feast in his honour was considered the usual reward of a successful warrior or politician. The practice579 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Feasts—continued. has been handed down to posterity, although in these days it is usual to give these great occasions the more modest name of banquets, or public dinners. History tells us of Feasts that can hardly he imagined, so elaborate, extravagant, and effusive were they—rivers or fountains flowing with wine, acres of tables groaning with their loads of luxuries, and multitudes of guests. But then comes the story of the Feast of Belshazzar to mar the prospect, and it may be owing to some such Nemesis that we have discarded the word Feast from our notions of a festive gathering. See Banquets, Dinners, &c. FEATHER CAKE.—See Cakes. FECTJLA {Fr. Fecule).—1This term is not often used in cookery. It is the technical name for the matter subsiding from cold water in which bruised or rasped vegetable substances have been washed or macerated, such as starch. Continental and American cooks apply it occasionally to potato-flour. FEDERAL CAKE—See Cakes. FEET.—As these parts of the animal contain a very large proportion of gelatine, they are much prized by cooks for their jelly-making properties. The percentage of nourishing matter is small, although they are fre- quently prepared in such a way that by various additions they are rendered sufficiently nutritive and palatable. For receipts, see under the special heading, such as Calf’s Feet, Cow-heels, Lamb’s Feet, Pig’s Feet, Sheep’s Feet, &c. FENNEL (Fr. Fenouil; Ger. Fenchel; Ital. Finoc- chio; Sp. Hinojo).—There are several kinds of Fennel known to botanists, such as those called popularly Sweet Fennel, Dog’s Fennel, Hog’s Fennel, Giant Fennel, and others. That which is used in cookery is the Sweet Fennel (Fteniculum vulgare) (see Fig. 727), and at one time this was considered of sufficient value to be cultivated in almost every kitchen garden; but owing to its in- ability to withstand inclement weather, and perhaps for other reasons best known to the cook, it has become very rare of late years, greengrocers not caring to keep it in stock on account of its withering propensities when cut. It may be pickled as follows: Wash thoroughly a large bunch of Fennel, put it into a saucepan with sufficient boiling salted water to cover it, and Fennel—continued. let it remain for two or three minutes until thoroughly blanched or scalded. Take it out, and roll it in a cloth to dry and get cold. Pack it in small jars, fill them up with vinegar, throw in a pinch or so of ground mace and grated nutmeg', tie the jars over with bladder, and they can be put by to keep until wanted. Fennel Sauce.—Blanch a moderate quantity of Fennel in boiling salted water, then dry it on a cloth and finely chop it. Put 2oz. of butter with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; pour in a little more than a pint of hot water, and continue to stir until boiling. Season the sauce with salt and pepper to taste, move it to the side of the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice of half a lemon, and strained. Mix the Fennel in with the sauce, and it is then ready for serving. FENOUILLETTE. — A liqueur made from Fennel- seed, which was at one time offered to ladies at French tables, after wine. FENU-GREEK.—At one time this herb (Trigonella Fcenum-Griecum) was much used for flavouring con- fectionery, but it has been almost completely deposed by other equally aromatic and more refined spices, such as caraway, aniseed, &c. It is a native of the Mediter- ranean shores, and cultivated in India, Egypt, and other warm countries, but very rarely in England, and then only for flavouring horse medicines, and concealing the smell of bad hay. The seeds were at one time highly prized amongst the Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans for cooking purposes. It is sometimes known as Fenu-grsec, foin-grec, or Greek hay. FERMENTS.—This name is given to the organic bodies which cause fermentation. Of these we have a simple specimen in yeast. FERMENTATION.—Recent investigations, based upon the discoveries of Professor Pasteur, have very much altered the theory of Fermentation; although, so far as results are concerned, they are altogether the same. By the Fermentation of an infusion of malt and hops, beer is obtained; by the Fermentation of the gluten of dough, bread is made light and spongy. By a series of oilier Fermentations, various other articles are produced, which differ in almost every respect from the original substance from which they have been evoked. For many years past some very erroneous notions were propagated by chemists and others as to the causation of Fermentation and the action of ferments. Some wonderful rays of light have been lately thrown over and into the subject by industrious workers, with the result that the process is no longer one of mystery. Fermentation, in all cases, is the breaking up of an organic body into other bodies of a lower organic value, until elementary simplicity is reached. This is brought about by the agency of a ferment (see Yeast), which requiring for its food some portion of the materials of which the body is composed, takes it, and thus compels the substance to assume other forms. It loosens, as it were, the keystone of the arch, with the result that the remainder falls to pieces and is thus enabled to assume these other forms. For instance, by putting yeast into a sugary fluid, under certain conditions, the yeast-cells begin to grow and multiply rapidly at the expense of the sugar and nitrogenous substances present, using these as its food, but removing at the same time an important item in the composition of sugar; that material falling to pieces, and becoming alcohol and carbonic acid gas. This regathering, as it were, is probably due to other ferments, present or therein created. Fermentation is a process of destruction—a decom- position, represented in some cases by putrefaction; but putrefaction, or the production of offensive matter, or luxuries, such as beer and wine, are merely grades 2 z 2580 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fermentation—continued. of the decomposition of Fermentation. Fermentation j breaks np putrefying matters, and converts them into useful food for other combinations. “ It is the grand power,” writes an authority, “ that cleanses the Augean stables of nature, at the same time that it (sometimes) provides some of the most esteemed articles of utility and luxury for the well-being and enjoyment of man.” (See Beer, Vinegar, and Wine). FERNS. — The uncurled fronds of yomig British Ferns are sometimes eaten as salad. Although no ' very superlative merit can be claimed for the dish, and it is quite certain that the fronds would be much more | valuable for ornamental purposes; nevertheless, it can be prepared as follows: Fern Salad.—Wash the uncurled fronds in salted water, and put them in hot water, simmering afterwards gently for five minutes. If the stalks are comparatively soft, take them out of the boiling water and plunge them into cold water. Fig. 728. Curled Young Ferns for Salad. This should remove all bitterness, and make the fronds crisp. After being in the cold water for an hour or less, take them out, shake them, and dry in a cloth. Arrange them on a dish (see Fig. 728), and serve with any kind of salad dressing- or vinaigrette. FERRA.—This is a small fish found in Lake Leman. It is not much known, although it has very delicate flesh. It is usually cooked as follows: Clean a dozen of the fish, put them in a saucepan with a little white wine and a few carrots and turnips cut up in small pieces, and a slice of onion; set the pan over the fire, and as soon as the contents begin to boil remove it to the side, keeping it covered, and let it remain for eight minutes or so. Place the fish on a napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with Geneva sauce in a sauceboat. FEUILLANTINES.—These are described in Con- tinental cookery-books as “ ancient pastry, very rarely prepared in these days.” The name is derived from feuilletage. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out to about |in. thick, and cut it into tin. strips and 2in. lengths. Spread a baking- dish thickly with butter, arrange the pieces of paste on it, placing them on their sides, and leaving a small space between them ; put them in the oven, and when they are firm and the sides have spread, glaze them with white of egg and dust with caster sugar. As the Feuillantines are cooked, set them on paper to drain off any extra grease they may contain. They may also be masked, separately, with a small quantity of different coloured jam. Arrange them on a fancy-edged dish- paper or a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. See Fig. 729. FEUILLETAGE.—Fr. for puff paste, said to be so called after one Feuillet, a chef to the house of Conde. FIBRINE (Fr. Fibrine ; Ger. Fuser,stoff ; Hal. Fibrina).—Liebig describes this as an azotized sub- stance, forming the coagulable portion of fresh-drawn blood, and the principal constituent of the muscular or fleshy parts of animals. It is eminently nutritious, and capable of yielding in the animal body, albumen, caseine, and the tissues derived from them FIDDLE-FISH.—See Angel -FISH. FIDELINI. — An Italian paste described under Macaroni. FIELDFARES. — These are a species of thrush, which are sometimes caught in Great Britain during the winter months. They may be cooked in pies, stewed, or roasted on a spit. See Threshes. FIGS (Fr. Figues; Ger. Feigen ; Ital. Fici; Sp. Higos). —The word Fig is supposed to have been derived from the Arabian feg, which is exceedingly probable, seeing that Figs are mentioned in writings that must have existed long before the classical Latin which gives it a botanical name. Our first parents are said to have clothed them- selves with Fig-leaves, and from that time onwards the Fig is mentioned by all creeds with honour and respect, not perhaps on account of its use for clothing, as it not only affords grateful shade in hot climates, but delicious, re- freshing fruits. As behoves such an exceptional tree, the fruit differs in many particulars from others, being the receptacle which holds the flowers. It is thus described by Lindley: “ The fruit is generally shortly turbinated, but some varieties are of an elongated, pyriform shape; the skin is soft, with shallow, longitudinal furrows, the colour yellowish-white, greenish-brown, purplish-brown, violet, Fig. 730. Figs. or dark purple. It consists of a hollow, fleshy receptacle, with an orifice in the top, which is surrounded and nearly closed by a number of imbricate scales—as many as 200 according to Duhamel. The flowers, unlike those of most fruit-trees, make no outward appearance, but are concealed within the Fig or its internal surface; they are male and female, the former situated near the orifice, the latter in that part of the concavity next the stalk. On cutting open a Fig when it has attained little more than one-third its full size, the flowers will be seen in full development, and provided the stamens are perfect, fertilisation takes place at that stage of growth. But it often happens that the stamens are imperfect, and no seeds are formed; nevertheless, the fruit swells and ripens.” The ancient history of the Fig is almost inexhaustible, and full of thrilling interest, but as it has no practicalTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 581 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. rigs —continued. value to tlie cook, it must be omitted here, to give room for more useful information. The garden or common Fig (Ficus Carica) (see Fig. 730) derives its name Carica from Caria in Asia Minor, where it grows to perfection. In the time of Cato only six kinds of Figs were known; at the present time botanists reckon that there are over 160 varieties, but not many of them are to he met with growing in England. Some horticulturists are of opinion that the Fig might be naturalised to this climate, and that a good yield of ripe fruit might he ensured during the months of August, September, and October. In Italy and other warm climates they ripen much earlier, and some Fig-trees have two crops of ripe fruit in the year. More often, the fruit that appears in one year does not ripen until the next. Figs are easily dried by exposure to the hot sun, such as would be experienced in Turkey and along the shores of the Mediterranean. They contain a vast quantity of sugar, and as this oozes and is dried on the surface, it may be said that they are preserved in their own dried syrup. Our markets are supplied with dried Figs from Turkey, the better class coming from Smyrna ancl Eleme in small boxes called drums. This import has reached as much as a thousand tons yearly, and now that the duty has been removed it is possible the quantity may be considerably increased, for they are acluiowleged favourites with all classes, and possess mild medicinal properties that are, or ought to be, greatly appreciated for children. The following receipts refer to (1) Green Figs, and (2) Dried Figs. Green Figs.—This term is used in a general sense, signifying fresh Figs, the probability being that the colour is not strictly green. As before described, they vary very much in colour, being green, brown, violet, and piirple, and there are some varieties—Black Boiu-jas- sotte (see Fig. 731) and Black Ischia, for instance— which are nearly black. Compote of Figs.— (1) Put the required quantity of Green Figs in a basin with the juice and peel of one or two lemons, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover them, and leave until cold. For every 21b. of fruit put in a preserving-pan Jib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of water, boil Fig. 732. Compote of Figs. until the sugar is dissolved, then drain the Figs, put them in the syrup with one thinly-sliced lemon without seeds, and simmer gently until tender. Leave the Figs in the syrup until cold, then group them in the centre of a glass dish, strain their syrup over, and serve. See Fig. 732. Figs —continued. (2) Choose Figs that are not quite ripe, prick them with a sharp-pointed knife in four or five places, put them into cold water for a few minutes, take them out, place in a saucepan with a little water, and boil for thirty minutes, when they should be done and quite tender ; take them out with a spoon or skimmer, put them again into cold water, take them out again after a time, and drain. Have ready some sugar boiled to the small-thread degree (see Sugar - boiling), place the fruit on a dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve garnished with slips of crystallised angelica. (3) Gather some Green Figs before they are too ripe, prick them, put them in a saucepan with some thin syrup, and stew till tender. When cooked, drain them, arrange in a pyramid in a compote-dish with the stalks inside, place one on the top, pour over some thick syrup, and serve when cold. (4) Remove the stalks from the required quantity of Figs, prick them here and there with a pointed piece of wood, put them in a bowl, cover with hot water, and leave them until the following morning. Put the Figs in a glass bowl, and pass their liquor through a fine hair-sieve over them; flavour with a small quantity of orange-flower water, colour with saffron, put in a few small pieces of ice, and serve. Fig- Creams.—Pick half-a-dozen Green Figs, cut off the stalks, and stew them in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Put 5 table- spoonfuls of water into a saucepan, and add to it Jib. of caster sugar ; place the pan on the fire until the sugar browns, add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered gum-arabic, and stir continually until the gum is quite dissolved. Remove the pan from the fire, add 1 teaspoonful of extract of vanilla, and stir and Fig. 733. Fig Creams. beat well with a spoon, for the more it is worked the better and lighter it will be. When it is light, turn it out on to a table or board and form it into a long roll, cut it up into slices, put a Fig on each, pinch the paste up a little so as to hold the Fig, place them on a strainer to dry, and they are ready for use, forming a very pretty little sweetmeat (see Fig. 733). Fig Salad.—Put about two dozen Green Figs into a salad-bowl with lib. of honey ; add 1 wineglassful of brandy to lqt. of thick cream, whip it to a stiff froth, pour it over the Figs, and serve. Preserved Figs.— (1) Put 91b. of fresh Green Figs into a basin of cold water, and let them remain for a day : then put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until they are quite tender. Take them out, plunge them into a bowl of cold water, and let them remain for a day ; then change the water, and let them soak for a day longer. Should they not be soft or tender enough, boil them, and put them into cold water for another day. Put 61b. of sugar into a sugar- boiler with a little water, and prepare a syrup (see Syrups) ; place the Figs in it, simmer gently for ten minutes, turn the whole out on to a dish, and let it remain for a couple of days. Put 31b. more of sugar into the sugar-boiler, pour over the syrup from the Figs, boil for a minute or two, add the thin peel of a lemon, a little raw ginger, and the Figs, and boil for a few minutes longer. Turn the contents of the pan into pots or jars, cover them over securely, put them into a cool place, and let them remain until wanted. (2) Place the Figs in an earthenware or stone jar, and cover them with a layer of their leaves. Sweeten sufficient water with honey to cover the Fig-s, and boil; skim well, pour it over the Figs, put paper over the jar, and tie down closely.582 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. When the Figs are wanted for serving, they should be soaked for two hours in warm water. (3) Select small Green Figs, and allow an equal weight of sugar; wipe the Figs and cut them across the top, put them | in a strong brine of salt and water, let them soak for ten days, then drain and boil them until the head of a pin will easily pierce the skin. Next put the Figs into cold water } and leave them for four days, changing the water daily. Make a syrup of the sugar (see Svrups), and while boiling drain | the Figs and put them in. Boil them for a few minutes, then remove them from the fire and leave until the following day. Boil the Figs up in the syrup three times, the last time boiling them until very tender and green. Put the preserve into wide-mouthed bottles, and when cold cork down. Preserved Ripe Pigs. — Select white ripe Figs, slit them with a sharp knife across the tops, put them in a preserving- pan with clarified sugar, and boil. Skim the syrup, and leave the Figs in it until the next day. Boil some sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), put in the Figs, and boil up again. Leave them until the next day, drain and dry them, and store away in a dry cupboard. Dried Pigs.—Those sold in boxes are considered by far the best, although they may also be bought strung on rushes, or packed and pressed together in baskets. These two latter must be used with caution, or it will sometimes be found that they are dry and sawdusty in the middle, and probably form the homes of sundry little maggots. Fig Cake.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of butter into a basin, and mix in with it double the quantity of caster sugar, 3 breakfast- cupfuls of finely-chopped raisins, four well-beaten eggs, powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, with suffi- cient cold water (in which a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved) to make it into a stiff batter. Lay lib. of whole Figs upon a baking-sheet, cover them over with the mixture, sprinkle a little sugar over the top, and bake j in a quick oven. A very sharp knife will be required to cut it, to prevent it crumbling or breaking to pieces. Fig Cream Ice.—Put lqt. of milk in a stewpan, and heat it in the bain-marie, reserving J breakfast-cupful to mix the cornflour. When the milk is hot, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour, which has been moistened and rubbed smooth with the cold milk. Cook this for ten minutes. Beat three eggs and Jib. of caster sugar together. Pour the cooked milk and cornflour on to this, stirring all the time. Return to the fire, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of gelatine soaked in 4 table- spoonfuls of cold water, and cook for three minutes longer. Set away to cool. When cold, add 1 pint of cream strongly flavoured with vanilla, freeze for ten minutes, take off the cover of the freezer, and stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of minced Dried Figs. Cover again, and freeze until hard. Take out the beater, with a spoon pack the cream in glasses, and serve. Fig-and-Custard Pudding.—Soak lib. of the best white Figs in warm water for a few minutes to take the stiffness from them; butter a mould, split the Figs in halves, dip each piece into warm wine jelly, and line the buttered mould with them. Beat up the yolks of five eggs and Jib. of sugar, and stir into them by degrees lqt. of milk; put this custard over the fire and stir till it begins to thicken, but take it from the fire before it boils, and then let it cool. Soak Joz. of gelatine in a bowl with just enough cold water to cover it, pour over a very little hot water, and stand the bowl in a sauce- pan of boiling water over the fire ; stir till it is clear, and then pour it into another bowl to cool. Beat the whites of two eggs to a very stiff froth, and when the gelatine is nearly j cold beat it by degrees into the frothed white of egg, and 1 continue to whisk until the mixture is white and thick ; then ; stir it into the cooled custard, whisk well for a few minutes, | pour it into the Fig-lined mould, and let it stand in a cold place all night. Next day dip the mould in hot water for an instant, and turn the pudding out. Figs for Dessert.—Place a lace-patterned dessert-paper on a | dish, and arrange the Figs in circular rows on it, one above the other, decreasing the circle as the structure is raised, to about 7in. in height; garnish the base with ring's of angelica, and serve when ready. Figs —continued. Fig Pastilles. — Put 1 saltspoonful of gelatine and 1 salt- spoonful of gum-arabic in a little hot water ; when melted, stir in lib. of loaf sugar. Cut 11b. of Dried Figs into thin slices, boil them for a few minutes, and strain; add them to the sugar, place the vessel containing them in hot water, and stir till the paste is quite thick and tolerably dry; put it into a well-oiled flat tin sprinkled with sugar, let it get cold, cut it in squares, and pack away in boxes. Fig Pudding.—(1) Finely chop Jib. of beef-suet, an equal quantity of Dried Figs, 2oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, blanched and dried, 3oz. of preserved stoned cherries, and 3oz. of angelica. Mix these, and add 8oz. each of coarse sugar and breadcrumbs, half that quantity of sultana raisins, 2oz. each of candied citron and flour, half a nutmeg finely grated, and the grated rind of a lemon. When all are thoroughly well mixed, add to the mass four beaten eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Place the mixture in a basin, cover it over and tie down, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for about four hours; or it may be steamed, when it will take five hours to cook. Turn out on to a dish, and serve with wine or sweet sauce. (2) Chop 8oz. of Dried Figs, mix them with 4oz. of moist sugar, Jib. each of flour and finely-shredded beef-suet, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful each of milk and treacle. Butter a pudding-mould, put in the mixture, tie over with a cloth, and place it in a saucepan of water. Set the pan over a good fire, and boil for about four hours. Turn it out, pour over a little brandy sauce, and serve very hot. An egg may be added to the pudding, and is considered a great improvement. (3) Chop Jib. of Dried Figs, and put them in a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs and Jib. of caster sugar. Trim off the skin and any discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, and chop it finely; mix it with the other ingre- dients in the basin, and add also the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Bind these ingredients together with one beaten egg and a small quantity of milk. Butter a pudding-mould, press the mixture into it, put a thickly- buttered sheet of paper over the top, then over that tie a cloth. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Put the yolks of four eggs into a small saucepan and beat them well, adding gradually 1 wineglassful of sherry, the juice of a lemon, and caster sugar to taste; stir the sauce over the fire until hot, but do not let it boil. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. (4) Put Jib. of finely-minced Dried Figs in a small sauce- pan with J breakfast-cupful of milk, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. Next mix in with them 8oz. of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 6oz. of chopped beef-suet, Jib. of sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 wineglassful of pale brandy. Turn the mixture into a buttered basin, tie a floured cloth on the top, and boil for four hours, keeping the basin well under water. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce. (5) Dissolve J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 pint of milk, soak in it Jib. of dry breadcrumbs, add and mix in 2oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, jib. of sugar, and three well-beaten eggs; mix well, and then stir in half-a- dozen large or eight small Figs, washed, dried, and chopped very fine. Put the pudding into a tin, and boil for three hours. Serve sweet sauce with it. (6) Finely chop Jib. of Dried Figs and Jib. of beef-suet, add Jib. of fine breadcrumbs, 6oz. of brown sugar, 2oz. of flour, a little grated nutmeg, and mix all well together. Beat two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of milk, and mix with the other ingredients to a stiff paste. If the eggs and milk are not enough to wet it sufficiently, add a little more milk. Put the pudding into a buttered mould, cover securely, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for four hours, without letting the rapid boil cease for an instant. Serve hot with wine sauce. (7) Rub 6oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet into 4oz. of flour until it is quite smooth, mix in 4oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, lOoz. of finely-chopped Dried Figs, the rind of a lemon also finely chopped, 4oz. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder, and half a nutmeg g'l'ated. Make the whole into aTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 583 tfcc., referred tot see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Figs —continued. mass by working in three or four eggs, pour the batter into a mould, buttered and dusted with coarse moist sugar and decorated with Figs cut into strips (see Fig. 734), put a piece of buttered paper over the mould, place it in a Fig. 734. Fig Pudding. saucepan of boiling water to three-parts the height of the mould, bring the water to the boil again, remove the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three- hours-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve hot. Tig Roly-Poly Pudding.—Make a pudding-crust with lib. of flour, 6oz. of beef-suet, 1 teaspoonful each of baking- powder and salt, and a sufficient quantity of water to form a paste, then roll it out to about jin. in thickness. Cut some Dried Figs into slices, and cover the surface of the paste with them, roll the paste up, making a long roll of it, moisten the edges with water, and press them together. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil for four hours, adding more boiling water as the quantity becomes diminished. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Pig Shape.—Put lib. of Dried Figs into a saucepan with a little lemon-peel and 2oz. of sugar, pour over sufficient claret or water, or both in equal proportions, to cover, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the Figs are soft and the liquor absorbed, or nearly so. Put the preparation into a mould, squeezing it down tightly, let it get cold, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with custard or well-whipped cream. After the Figs have been cooked they should form a stiffish paste, and if they should still be lumpy they must be rubbed through a fine sieve. Frozen Fig Pudding.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar into a saucepan without any water over a moderate fire, and melt it until it becomes like molasses ; add 1 teacupful of water, and boil up until the sugar is all dissolved. Put Iqt. of milk into a basin, add 14oz. of sugar and the yolks of eight eggs; strain the caramel or boiled sugar into it, and put all into the freezer. Finely chop lib. of Dried Figs to about the size of sultana raisins, and add them. When they are well mixed in and the pudding frozen a little, put it into a mould, and pack the mould in pounded ice and salt for two hours or so until stiff and set. Turn it out on to a cold dish, and serve. A teacupful of curaijoa instead of the water may be added to the melted sugar if preferred. Stewed Figs. -Put 4oz. of sugar into a lined stewpan with the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon and 1 pint of cold water; stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, then move the pan to the side, add lib. of Dried Figs, and stew very gently for from two hours to two-hours-and-a-half. When the Figs are quite tender, mix with them 2' wineglassfuls of port wine and the strained juice of a lemon, let them get cold, turn them with their syrup on to a glass dish, and serve. Stuffed Figs.— Make a thin syrup of 1 pint of water and jjlb. of loaf sugar; when skimmed and boiled clear, put into it one dozen large whole Dried Figs, and let them get hot through. Remove the pan from the fire, and then let the Figs soak in the syrup for twenty-four hours. Put 6oz. of loaf sugar, 5 saltspoonful of cream of tartar, and 5 teacupful of cold water into a saucepan, and boil it till, when a little of it is tried in cold water, it forms a soft jelly; take it from the fire, let it stand closely covered for ten minutes, Figs —continued. and then beat it to a smooth cream with a spatula. Have ready |lb. of sweet almonds, blanched, thoroughly dried, and grated, stir them into the creamed syrup together with a small quantity of essence of almonds and a little finely-cut citron ; cut a slit in the side of each Fig’ and stuff this paste into them, lay them on a dish, and dredge with sugar. Let them stand in a warm place for a few hours to dry slightly, and they are ready for use. FIG-PECKERS (.Fr. Becfigues; Ger. Feigenschnep- fen; Ital. Beccafici; Sp. Becafigos).—These birds (Sylvia or Curruca hovtensis), although European, are comparatively unknown in this country. They are very small, not being much bigger than nightingales, and feed on figs and grapes, which give to their flesh such a delicate flavour that a gourmet remarked of them—if they were only as big as pheasants they would each be worth an acre of land. Small as they are, they admit of some very artistic treat- ment, as shown by a receipt contributed to culinary literature by the famous Urbain Dubois. Bakecl Fig-peckers with. Mushrooms.—Select two dozen plump birds, pluck them, remove their gizzards, chop off their necks and legs, and singe them. Cut off the stalks of two dozen good-sized mushrooms, wipe well, but do not wash them, and put them on a wire sieve in a moderate oven to dry. Take the best of the stalks, pick, wash, and then chop them up. Cut an onion into small pieces, and fry it in a saucepan with a little oil; add the pieces of stalks and a small clove of garlic bruised. When the moisture has evaporated a little, dust over a handful of breadcrumbs, remove the pan from the fire, and put in 1 teacupful of raw ham, cut in small pieces, and 1 teaspoonful of finely- minced parsley. Take a little of this mixture out with a teaspoon, and put it into the hollow part of the mushroom, Fig. 735. Fig-pecker on Mushroom. place one of the birds on each (see Fig. 735), brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in oil, and dust them with chopped parsley. Place them on a baking-sheet, baste with oil and the juice of two lemons, place the sheet in a hot oven, and bake for from twelve to fifteen minutes. Take out the birds, baste them over with a paste-brush dipped in glaze, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Fig-peckers in Cases. -Prepare as above as many Fig- peckers as required. Have ready as many paper cases as birds, mask them with perigueux sauce, and put in the birds, making a hole in the sides of the cases to let the heads through. Set them in a quick oven to cook, or brown them with a salamander, as they require but very little cooking. Put them on a dish moistened with a few drops of hot perigueux sauce, and serve at once. FILBERTS (Fr. Avelines; Ger. Lambertsnusse; Ital. Avellane; Sp. Avellanas).—How it lias come to pass that the cultivated hazel-nuts, called Filberts (Corylus Avel- lana), should obtain such an extraordinary name there seems to be no reliable record to show. It has been suggested that they were so called after a St. Pliillibert, whose day (August 22nd) fell about the commencement of the nutting season. The German name, Lamberts- nusse, or Bartnuss, refers apparently to their long beards. There are numerous varieties of Filberts, which differ principally in the shape of the nuts and length of theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 584 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Filberts—continued. husks. Red Filberts and White Filberts are alike (see Fig. 736) externally, but in the former the kernel is covered with a red skin, and in the latter kind the kernel covering is white, or pale brown. Either of these can be preserved in their husks for winter use. The Kentish cob-nut is a short, round, thick-shelled nut, and a very fine variety of these is imported from Spain. The Cosford nut is another very fine nut, being oblong, and finely striated longitudinally. The shell is very thin, and the kernel usually large, full, and milky. The Downton, a large square nut, is considered also to be a special variety. When nuts are served for dessert they should be piled on a dish and garnished here and there or round under them with leaves—fresh nut-leaves if possible, or vine- leaves if the nut-leaves are not forthcoming. Filberts should be served freshly gathered, when they will peel easily after cracking off the shells; but when they are somewhat dry they may be blanched by plunging the kernels into boiling water, and after just boiling them up for an instant, turn the kernels into a rough cloth; the skins will then rub off. Compote of Filberts.—Crack the shells and carefully remove the kernels from some fresh-gathered Filberts, put them on a dish, squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juiee, and leave them for an hour or two. Drain the nuts free from the juice, arrange them in pyramid form in a compote-dish, pour over thick syrup flavoured with noyeau, and serve. Filbert Balls.—Blanch fib. of Filberts, put them in a pre- serving-pan over a moderate fire, and stir with a wooden spoon until they are lightly and equally browned. Take them off the fire, let them get cold, then put them in a mortar and pound to a smooth paste, adding occasionally a small quantity of white of egg. Mix fib. of flour with the Filberts and 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and stir in sufficient beaten yolks of eggs to make a stiff paste. Boll the paste out, and cut it into four equal parts ; roll each part to the same length, cut them into pieces about the size of walnuts, and roll them into balls. Brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake until lightly browned in a moderate oven. When cooked, the balls should be dry and crisp. Filbert Biscuits.—(1) Skin about Rb. of Filberts, put them on a tray, and toss them over the fire until they are well coloured. Let them get cold, put them into a mortar, and Filberts—continued. pound to a pulp, adding gradually the white of an egg to prevent oiling; then form them into a paste with £lb. each of flour and crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of butter, and the yolks of four or five eggs. Cut the paste into small pieces about the size of walnuts, roll them out to about 3jin. in length, dust over with coarsely-sifted loaf sugar, brushing them over with egg to make it adhere, put them into a slack oven, and bake for a few minutes, or until they are well coloured. Take them out, put them into a dry closet until crisp, and they are ready for use. (2) Crack some Filberts, pick them clean from shell and skin, put them in a mortar, and pound, with white of egg sufficient to keep them from oiling. Mix and pound with the nuts powdered white sugar till the paste is thick, then with the spaddle and knife drop small pieces of the paste on a sheet of paper. Each piece of paste should be about the size of half a walnut. Put two or three sheets of paper under them in the oven, and bake brown. Take them from the oven on the sheets of paper, and let them remain on these till they are quite cold. (3) Bub lib. of butter, softened by warming, into 3|lb. of flour, place it on a board, make a bay in the centre, put in lOoz. of caster sugar, and form it into a paste with 3 gills of milk, 4 table-spoonfuls of honey-water, and 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water ; work it until it is perfectly smooth, and make it into round shapes the size of nutmegs. Make two incisions like a cross with a knife on the top nearly half- way through, place them on a slightly-buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a slow and steady oven until done. Filbert Butter.—Blanch and pound a dozen Filberts, beat in 3oz. of butter, a slight seasoning of chives, tarragon-leaves, and parsley, and when it is well mixed, the butter is ready for use. Filbert Candied Paste Bonbons.—Blanch jib. of Filberts, put them in a mortar, and pound, adding a small quantity of white of egg to prevent them oiling. Mix with this paste |lb. of syrup at 40deg. (see Syjrups), f wineglassful of kirschen- wasser, and sufficient spinach-green to tinge it. Leave the paste till cool, then cut it into pieces the same shape and size as olives; put them on a sieve, set it in the screen with a moderate heat, and dry them for four hours. Put the pieces in a candy-tin, pour over them syrup at 36deg. (see Sykups) slightly cooled, to about lin. above the paste, place a sheet of paper over the tin, and leave it till the contents are candied, which will take about fifteen hours, the tin being placed in a hot closet. Break the sugar that has caked on the top, take the bonbons carefully out of the syrup, put them on a wire tray, and finish drying in the screen. Pack in boxes between layers of paper. Filbert Cannelons.—Crack 6oz. of Filberts, pick them free from shell and skin, put in a mortar, and pound with a little white of egg to keep them from oiling; then add lib. of powdered white sugar and half the white of an egg. Mix the paste well, let it stand to dry slightly, and then press it through a biscuit-forcer, forming cannelons about 4in. in length. Put some butter in a pan over the fire, and when quite hot fry the cannelons in it, taking care to keep them quite straight. Sprinkle sugar over them, and glaze with a salamander before serving. Filbert and Citron Cream Ice.—Crack the shells and take out the kernels of 1 pint of Filberts; place them on a buttered tin, and put in a moderate oven until the skins can be easily removed, then chop them finely. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, pour them into a lined saucepan with 1£ pints of cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire until thickened, but not boiling. Take the saucepan off the fire, leave the contents until nearly cold, then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of preserved citron with its juice and the Filberts. Turn the mixture into a mould, and cover and pack it in pounded ice and salt for a few hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a glass dish. Filbert Cracklings.—Cut lOoz. of blanched Filberts into shreds, and mix them in a basin with an equal quantity of caster sugar, a few drops of noyeau, and the whites of two eggs. Take the mixture up with a dessert-spoon, and drop it in lumps about the size of walnuts on sheets of wafer- paper, and about ljin. apart; dip the top of the fingerTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 585 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Filberts—continued. in water and slightly spread them out, but still keeping them round and fully iin. thick. Put them in a moderate oven, and bake until light brown and sufficiently cooked. Take them out of the oven, brush over with white of egg, and sprinkle chopped Filberts on top. Filbert Cream Ice.—(1) Put about 12oz. of Filbert-kernels in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water and a small quantity of milk, and pound them well; stir in with them the remainder of 3 gills of milk, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and add to it fib. of caster sugar. Put the Filbert pulp into the freezer, work it till frozen and stiff, then mix in by degrees two whites of Italian meringue, flavoured with essence of peach-kernels, and 1 pint of well-whipped cream. Turn the frozen mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice for fully two hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on to a fancy dish. (2) Roast some Filberts in the oven, skin them, and pound slightly with a little cream. Beat up four eggs with | pint of syrup and 1 pint of cream, put eggs, syrup, and cream together over the fire, stir till thick and boiling, strain through a sieve, cool, and put the cream into a freezer; freeze, mix in the pounded Filberts, pack in a mould, and turn out when wanted. Filbert Croquettes.—(1) Take ilb. or so of Filberts with their skins on, wipe them, and pound in a mortar, adding a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. When they are reduced to a pulp, mix in ITb. each of flour and caster sugar, the yellow rind (zest) of two oranges rasped on lumps of sugar, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and a few drops of noyeau. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, take the mixture out of the mortar, place it on a floured board, roll it in the shape of a thick rolling-pin, put it on a buttered baking-sheet, brush it over with egg, and place it in a moderate oven to bake. Take it out, and while it is quite hot cut it up into slices ; put these on a baking-sheet in a warm oven to dry. Damp the edges with a little royal icing, roll them in finely-chopped pistachio-kernels, and then let them dry again in the oven before using. See Fig. 737. (2) This is prepared as above, with the exception of keeping the Filberts whole, and after the paste is cut up into slices colouring the edges with pink sugar icing. Imitation Filberts.—(1) Blanch |lb. of almonds, and pound them in a mortar, adding a few drops of water or orange- flower water to prevent them oiling ; mix up with them Jib. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, the yolks of four eggs, and a little noyeau, or any other kind of flavouring desired. When this mixture is worked into a smooth, stiff paste, take it out and put it on a slab or board sprinkled with fine sugar, roll it out to gin. in thickness, or a little thinner if possible, and with a tin biscuit-cutter cut out some pieces the shape and size, as if laid flat, of the hull that surrounds a Filbert. This can easily be done by cutting or dividing one end of the leaves with the point of a knife. Take a large Filbert- kernel (without its skin), and place four of the prepared leaves round the bottom or thick end, pinching them together, so as to form the stem; fasten three or four of these Filberts by the stalks to make a group, and put them (keeping them upright) on a baking-sheet slightly waxed. When all are ready, place the sheet in the hot closet or screen, and let them remain for Filberts—continued. a day; remove them into a slack oven, and bake until they are quite dry, and but little, if at all, browned. In the meanwhile get ready some royal icing, made with an egg, divide it into three parts, colour two of these parts with spinach-green, and the other part with dissolved chocolate, strong enough to give the nut-brown colour to the kernels. Paint the kernels with the brown icing (using a small brush to do it), and the leaves, especially towards the tips, with the green, which must be of a very light tint. Place them for a few minutes in the screen or oven to dry, and they are ready for use. Care must be taken when drying them, after they have been coloured, not to injure the icing. (2.) Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a long-spouted sugar- boiler, boil it to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), and then stir in jib. of Filbert-kernels, blanched and pounded in a mortar to a smooth pulp, with a liqueur-glassful of noyeau. Pour this out of the sugar-boiler in little lumps the size and shape of Filberts, dust them over with starch powder, and put in a hot closet to dry. Take them out, brush free of the powder, take one up at a time with a fork, dip them into thin royal icing, place with the broad end downwards on a wire tray, and put them on a sieve in the hot closet to dry. Paint them over when dry with a little thinly-diluted burnt umber, so that they will have the necessary tint; imitate the ribbed shades as nearly as possible, with a little thin royal icing give the broad end of the Filbert the natural white tinge, dry them a little, and they are ready. Sugared Filberts.—(1) Put 6oz. of sugar into a comfit-pan over the fire, add a very little water, let the sugar melt, then pour in a small quantity more of water ; add 6oz. of Filberts, and stir them well with a spatula until the sugar begins to sparkle on them. Remove the pan from the fire, and work well until the sugar grains and falls off the Filberts. Take out a little of the sugar, place the pan over the fire again, and stir well until the Filberts are well covered with the sugar, taking care that the fire is not too hot. Now put in the sugar that was taken out, and continue to stir until the Filberts have the whole of the sugar adhering to them. Turn them out on to a sieve, separating them as much as possible, and letting all the sugar that does not adhere fall through. Let them get cold, and they are ready for use. (2) Sift ilb. of sugar into a basin with an egg and beat well for about ten minutes. Slightly roast at the mouth of the oven 2oz. of Filberts without their skins, roll them well in the sugar icing, and stick them two together until all are done, removing any icing that is superfluous, as only a covering is required. Put them on a thick piece of paper, keeping them quite 2in. apart, then group some of them together to form designs, and bake in a slack oven until light brown. Take them out, let them get cold, remove from the paper, and they are ready for use. FILLETS (Fr. Filets; Ger. Lendenstrecken; Ital. Filetti; 8p. Filetes).—Derived from the Latin word filum—a thread, it gives the idea that a Fillet should be long in proportion to its breadth. The tenderloin of beef answers this description, and from that the term lias come to be used to describe any piece of lean meat without bone. A Fillet of veal or mutton is the fleshy part of the thigh; a Fillet of fish is a long slice without hone. Fillets of fowl or other birds are the long pieces cut from each side of the breast-bone. These are all described under their special headings. FILTERS AND FILTERING.—Sufficient could be written upon this subject to fill a large volume, without arriving at any more practically useful con- clusion than that it is very necessary that water for kitchen purposes should be perfectly pure. In many households this is neglected, water used even for drink- ing purposes being rarely filtered, although it is only by some such process that its freedom from floating particles can lie secured. Upon the variety of Filters it would be invidious to make much comment, seeing that all are more or less satisfactory in their action. Certain merits are claimed for some over others; but it may be taken for granted that the action is mechanical, or should be, and, therefore, that the special qualities,586 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jjc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Filters and Filtering—continued. other than those of a mechanical character, which it is asserted some Filters possess, have no foundation in fact. Filtering is a very useful process to cooks and con- fectioners for straining and rendering bright and clear those cordials, tinctures, essences, or flavourings which they are skilful enough to prepare for their own use. For filtering spirituous or watery materials a piece of C Fig. 738. How to Fold a Filter Paper. filtering or coarse blotting-paper is essential, unless the fluid is sufficiently bright to be passed through a funnel in which a wad of tow or cotton-wool is tucked. This was the original mode of filtering, and from this the name was derived—the Latin filtrum, or feltrum, signifying felt or pulled wool. When a convenient Fig. 739. Paper Folded for Filtering. funnel and filtering paper are at hand, the mode of procedure is as follows: Take a square of paper, and fold it along A B (as shown in Fig. 738), then fold it again into fourths by C I); then round off the corners with a sharp pair of scissors, open one fold, and there will be found a conical paper receptacle (Fig. 739). Drop this into a funnel, and put it into a bottle, as shown in Filters and Filtering—continued. Fig. 740. Some funnels are provided with ridges to prevent the tube fitting close to the mouth of the bottle, and thus preventing the escape of the air as the bottle fills. If no ridge or other provision is made for this purpose, it is ad- visable to insert a small splint of stick, a bit of wire, or thick cord between the funnel and the mouth of the bottle. See also Straining. FINANCIERS (A LA).—See Garnishes and Sauces. FINE HERBS—This term might be more pro- perly applied to a mixture of Herbs previously known asd’Uxelles. Recent French culinary authorities seem to have decided that another combination to those already in use shall prevail, hence they persistently in their writings apply the term Fine Herbs to the follow- ing mixtures : (1) Cooked.—Put 2oz. of finely-chopped shallot into a saucepan with |oz. of butter and salt and pepper to taste, stir gently over the fire, then add 4oz. each of mushroom trimmings and finely-chopped, well-washed, and dried parsley. The mushroom trimmings should be put into a cloth and wrung as dry as possible. Cook for five minutes longer, turn the whole into a basin, cover them over with buttered paper, and let them remain until wanted. The mushroom trimmings should be cut off only as required, for if they are kept before being used they will turn black, and the effect will be spoilt. (2) Uncooked.—Chop separately half an onion, two shallots, two sprigs of parsley, four spikes of chives, and an equal quantity of chervil; mix thoroughly before using. Fine-Herbs Sauce.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and chopped onion in a saucepan, with 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and stir for two or three minutes over the fire ; then pour in 1 pint of white sauce, and continue stirring till it boils. It is then ready to serve. (2) Put a chopped onion and two well-peeled and chopped shallots in a saucepan, brown them with loz. of butter, then add double the quantity of finely-minced mushrooms and a grain of garlic, season with ^ table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and finish with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Cook ten minutes longer, and cool before using. Fine-Herbs Vinegar.—(1) Use in equal quantities tarragon, burnet, chervil, and cress, all of which should have been gathered the day before. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle or jar with this, adding also two cloves of garlic and a green chilli. Cover the whole with vinegar, cork the bottle tightly, and place it in a warm temperature for a fortnight. Strain the vinegar through a fine hair sieve, pressing the herbs well, then filter through paper until quite clear. Pour it into bottles and keep them tightly corked. (2) Same as No. 1, omitting the chervil, cress, garlic, and chilli, and substituting the thin rind of two lemons, a few cloves, and a good supply of elder-flowers. FINGER BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. FININGS.—See Clarifying. FINNAN HADDIES.—See Haddocks. FIORANO.—An Italian wine, produced principally in Modena. Fig. 740. Straining Cordials and Liqueurs.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 587 aces, ibc., referred to, see under their special heads. FIRKIN— This is a rather indefinite measure, signi- fying 9galls. of beer, or the fourth part of any barrel, the first syllable “fir” having the same derivation as “ four.” A firkin of lard or butter has no exact defini- tion, signifying merely a small barrel. FISH (Fr. Poissons; Ger. Fische; Ital. Pesce; Sp. Pez).—The word itself can be traced back to the Anglo-Saxon fisc, which has also a much older origin; but the use of Fish as a food can be traced back until all account of it is lost in the dark ages. Fish is the food of the world, and probably always has been, and is very likely as delicious to the savage who toasts it on a stick over wood ashes as to the greatest epicure that ever sat down to a carp a la Chambord or a salmon mayonnaise. That Fish is almost invaluable as a food is universally admitted, although its actual proportion of flesh-forming material is exceedingly low as compared with beef or other meats, but it contains a large proportion of phos- phorus, which is necessary for the nourishment of the brain. Then again, Fish differ amongst themselves as to their nutritive value. According to Dr. Letheby, white Fish such as whiting, cod, haddock, halibut, sole, plaice, flounder, and turbot contain only about 22 per cent, of solid nutritive matter. To increase this ratio, it is usual to serve them with butter-sauce, commonly known as “ melted butter.” Those Fish that are richer in fat, such as mackerel, eels, salmon, herring, sprat, and pilchard contain the largest proportion of nutrient material; but it is also a well-ascertained fact that the fat, or oil, is somewhat difficult of digestion, and apt to disagree with delicate stomachs, more especially after it has been kept awhile and probably commenced to turn rancid. Shell-fish, we are informed, contain about an equal pro- portion of solid matter, about the same as white-fish; but they differ in their degrees of digestibility. Of all shell-fish oysters are the most digestible; next to them may be classed scallops, cockles, periwinkles; then shrimps, lobsters, and crabs; after these, prawns and crayfish; concluding, as last in order, with such fish as mussels, limpets, and whelks. Dr. Fleming in his works on Zoology states that the flesh of any Fish is always in the highest perfection, or in season as it is called, during the period of the ripening of the milt and roe. The hard roe is the female spawn, the milt, or soft roe, is the deposit of the male that fecundates the roe. After the fish has deposited this spawn, the flesh deteriorates in quality and becomes soft, and loses a great deal of its flavour, owing to the disappearance of the oil or fat from the flesh, expended in the function of reproduction. It is poor satisfaction to those who delight in a hard roe to know that they are destroying an indefinite number of probable young- fish. According to Mr. Frank T. Buckland, a salmon roe would contain about 1000 eggs to every pound weight of the Fish ; a trout is the same. A lib. mackerel contains about 86,120 eggs; a herring (Jib.) 19,810; a sole (lib.) 134,46b; a turbot (81b.) 385,200, and a cod (201b.) no less than 4,872,000. As it happens, both spawn and young Fish have so many enemies to contend with that it has been reckoned not more than 1 in 1000 come to a size suitable for the table, otherwise our supply of fish would be enormous. The following remarks, which appear in Cooley's Cyclo- pedia, are well founded, and are therefore worthy of considerable attention: “Fish should be dressed as soon after being caught as possible, as much of their peculiar delicacy and flavour is lost by keeping, even for a few hours. Turbot and salmon are said by the fishmongers to be improved in flavour when two or three days old, but this is surely a mistake, as the former, when dressed immediately after being caught, possesses a fine creamy taste, which it afterwards loses; whilst the latter, by the loss of a single tide, loses a portion of the fine white curd which is previously found between the flakes, and by longer keeping, this curd, with the larger flakes, I1 or details respecting/ Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fish —continued. disappear altogether. In the eyes of some epicures the richness is, however, increased by this change. Mackerel, and some other Fish, suffer so much from keeping only a few hours that they become quite unwholesome. Her- rings offer a remarkable example of the advantage of dressing Fish as fresh as possible. When cooked soon after being caught, they possess considerable delicacy of flavour, but after being kept for only a few hours the oil separates from the flesh, and they become soft, greasy, and strong flavoured.” For the latter reason, also, fresh haddocks are rarely met with in inland towns, and even then they should be treated with caution. In selecting Fish, the foregoing remarks should have great weight: Fish cannot be too fresh, for which reason cooks much prefer to have a little life in the fish they buy; an idiosyncrasy that has doubtless led to the wild fiction perpetrated by street vendors, who inform the public that their fish is “ Alive, oh! ” when in many cases it is even something worse than stale. Fish in their natural state of life have red gills; these change to a liver colour, or almost a muddy white, some little time after death, so that the colour of the gills is a very good test of the state of freshness of the Fish. The flesh of a recently-caught Fish is firm and elastic, leaving little or no depression if pressed with the finger. Fresh Fish do not as a rule lie flat on the slab; they are generally curved a little to one side or the other, being still possessed by the stiffness that follows recent death. Other features for guidance in selecting various kinds of Fish are described under their special headings. Sometimes it is necessary for the cook to keep Fish until they are wanted for use. In such cases they should be thoroughly cleaned, profusely washed, and then laid on stones, or block ice. Turbot, skate, and halibut, and such-like fish, should be hung up by the tail, as if laid flat they deteriorate on the side next the slab. Some cooks partly boil the fish, and then dry them thoroughly with a cloth. This mode is very successful in cold weather. The importance of thoroughly cleansing Fish is indi- cated by the usual superiority of Fish cleansed by the fishmonger. He opens the belly right down, scrapes the backbone, and washes the Fish again and again in plenty of cold water. The cook should wash it once more, and leave it to soak for a few minutes in salted water, or water to which a small proportion of vinegar has been added. The fins and tail must be cut close with a pair of stout scissors (see Fig. 741). “For cooking Fish,” Kettner tells us, “one thing is clear: if it is of the first order and perfectly fresh, do not give too much heed to French directions. The only safe guides are the English and the Dutch. The French, when they settled their methods of cooking Fish, did not get it so fresh as it was to be had in England and in Holland—it was generally a day older. When a noble Fish—a salmon or a turbot—is quite fresh, the simplest way of cooking it is the best, and it is impossible to improve upon the English and Dutch methods. On the other hand, when the Fish is poor, or a day older thanTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 588 Fish—continued. need be, the French cooks can give many a good hint, and their rich sauces and garnishings, their marinades and matelotes, have a magical effect. There are few dishes more worthy of honour than carp a la Chambord, a sole in a Normandy matelote, the remains of a turbot in a cream an gratin, or the tasteless little river crayfish done up a la Bordelaise.” Urban Dubois, whose experiences as a cook are of all nations, writing of Fish removes, observes that large Fish must either be boiled or braised; when boiled they should be served quite plain, with but one garnish, and that is potatoes, peeled and steamed. These he con- siders to be the natural companions of the boiled Fish. To this he would add “ light, delicate, and well-buttered sauce,” such as our “ melted butter,” flavoured with other more tasty Fish, or herbs. Thus: with turbot serve lobster sauce or prawn or shrimp sauce ; with boiled salmon, parsley sauce and cucumber salad; cod, oyster sauce; whiting and mackerel, egg sauce, parsley sauce, or gooseberry sauce. Mackerel is best served with fennel sauce. Braised Fish require very succulent sauces, and large Fish take bold garnishes of oysters, mussels, cray- fish-tails, milt, quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms, &c. Fried Fish, such as whiting, soles, trout, smelts, &c., require anchovy sauce. Fish stuffed and baked require gravies. In addition to the foregoing there are many modes of preparing and cooking Fish, for which other special sauces, garnishes, pickles, and other flavourings are desirable, most of which are given in detail amongst the multitude of receipts for Fish, special and general, with which this Encyclopaedia is so amply provided. It merely remains in this article to give some general instructions, leaving other important matters to be discussed under special headings, such as Boiling, Frying, &c. Instructions for curing, drying, pickling, salting, and smoking various kinds of Fish will be found under their special headings, such as Bloaters, Haddocks, &c. Baking Fish.—Prepared as for broiling, with the exception of stuffed Fish, which are then basted with fat. Boiling Fish.—All large Fish with the skins whole are to be put in cold water, but when they are crimped, or in slices, they require more rapid cooking, and should therefore be plunged into boiling water at once. By this way the cut surfaces are hardened and closed, pre- venting the juices of the Fish from boiling out. Sole, j Fish—continued. that it remains on its belly, some such system as the following may be resorted to. Pass some long steel pins (ladies bonnet-pins answer first-rate) through the bodies from dorsal fin to belly, taking care that two at least of the points shall pass through holes in the strainer. The upper parts near the ball-heads must then be made fast to the edges of the strainer by means of guys or Fig. 743. Fish tied on a Strainer for Boiling. stays (see Fig. 743), shown also in section (see Fig. 744). In this way both sides of the Fish remain untouched. As fast as scum rises on the water it should be taken away, otherwise the Fish will come out dirty. The addi- tion of a dessert-spoonful of salt to every quart of water is advisable, as it makes the flesh firmer; or the juice of half a lemon, or a table-spoonful of good vinegar, in the same proportion of water keeps the flesh beauti- fully white. The Fish is said to be done when the flesh begins to leave the bone; but if a Fish has been cooked steadily, by simmering instead of very fast boiling, the Fig. 744. Section of Fish on Strainer. skin may remain quite sound and yet the flesh be suffi- ciently cooked. “I generally try it by gently pushing a wooden skewer through the thickest part; if it goes in easily it is done,” observes Soyer. As soon as the Fish is cooked, lift it out, and let it drain thoroughly before dishing. The stock the Fish is boiled in will make a sauce or court bouillon; but the Fish should not be allowed to remain in it after the kettle is removed from the fire. After boiling, it is not easy to transfer the cooked Fish from the kettle to the dish or socle, or slab, upon Fig. 742. Fish on Strainer. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. skate, and mackerel should always go into boiling water at once. The Fish-kettle should not be much larger than the Fish, and as little water as possible should be used, covering the body by not more than 2in. or 3in., or the skin will crack, and then some of the goodness of the Fish will be boiled out; and instead of eating firm and full of flavour, it will be soft and woolly, and easily over-boiled. It is advisable to tie the Fish to the strainer of the kettle (see Fig. 742), so that it may not shift about and get broken in the boiling. When it is desirable to boil a whole Fish, say a stuffed one, in such a position Fig. 745. Mode of Lifting Boiled Fish. which it is to cool, without breaking it. An ingenious cook has found a couple of boards (see Fig. 745), neatly589 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pish—c ontinued. handled, of the very greatest use, and has in consequence by their means been enabled to serve a large soft Fish in a state of perfection not usually acquired by any other method. Braising Fish.—This mode of cooking large Fish requires the same preparatory processes as frying or boiling. All other instructions will be found under Braising, as for braising joints or large birds. Broiling Fish.—Most Fish admit of this mode of cooking, either whole or in parts. It is usual to prepare them for this process by washing them in strong vinegar, wiping dry, rubbing lemon over, and then flouring. The bars of the gridiron should be hot and well-buttered before the Fish is placed on them. Frying Fish.—The Fish require the same preparation as for boiling, being afterwards dipped in batter, or egg- and-breadcrumbed. The pan should be two-thirds full of boiling fat, and the Fish let in on a basket if small, or on a broad wire strainer if large. See Fig. 746. The foregoing general instructions are sufficient for most purposes, and are those usually practised; but the ingenuity of cooks has not been exerted in vain ; hence we have to record a mode of sewing up a stuffed Fish that is worthy of imitation. By the old process of stitching up in the ordinary manner, cooks experienced great diffi- culty in removing the string without breaking the Fish, and even then it was almost impossible to set the Fish upright Fig. 747. Fish Stuffed and Sewn^up for'Cooking (new method). on its belly. By the system (see Fig. 747) invented by one of the staff of this Encyclopaedia, the Fish can be placed in position before removing the sewing. This is brought about by a series of steel, electro, or silver pins with ball heads. They are passed through the belly taking up the cut, and then by a saw-like system of stitches a very close fastening is made, which is easily removed by withdrawing the pins one at a time, and pulling the string from under. To bone or fillet Fish for cooking does not often fall to the lot of the cook in a small family, as the fish- monger would probably be more expert at either. Never- theless, as the bones are useful for making Fish stock, and the fishmonger usually retains them if he is requested to perform either feat, and the cook might lie called upon to do both, the following instructions will be found sufficient to meet all purposes : Boning Fish. First of all the Fish must be cleaned and well washed, and then the skin stripped off ; lay the Fish flat Fish—continued. on the table, and run the knife from the tail to the head, between the flesh and bone, keeping it close to the bone: hold the flesh carefully so as not to break it, and scrape it away quite clean. When the flesh on one side is removed, slip the knife under the bone on the other side, and raise the bone, leaving the flesh on the board ; pull out any small bones that may be left in the Fish, they being' easily discovered by feeling the flesh with the fingers. Such Fish as cod, cusk, mackerel, &c., can be boned, but smaller ones, like herrings or shad, are not boned, on account of their having so many fine bones. Filleting Fish.—Skin the Fish with a sharp pointed knife, then cut down the backbone straight from the head to the tail. Separate all the flesh to the left of the backbone, then turn the Fish round and cut off the three remaining fillets. The fillets are then ready. The following receipts will each be found to apply to so many different kinds of Fish that they are inserted under a general head in preference to being referred to the special heads under which particular Fish are treated. Baked Fillets of Fish with Fish Forcemeat. --A great variety of Fish may be prepared in the following way: Split the Fish down the back, and take out all the bones; wipe the fillets on a cloth, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Lay the fillets on a board, the skin side downwards, and coat them thickly on the top with Fish forcemeat. Lay them in a baking-dish, put in 1 table-spoonful of dripping, loz. of butter, and a very small quantity of water : cover the fillets with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake for lialf-an-hour or more, according to the thickness of the fillets. The Fish should be basted occasionally with the contents of the pan while baking. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a mound of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and serve with a sauce- boatful of clear gravy. Broiled Scalded Fish.—This receipt is of Turkish origin Clean whatever Fish has been selected, and scald it; rub a gridiron over with olive oil, lay the Fish on it, place it over a moderate charcoal fire, and turn the Fish occasionally until both sides are browned. Put a layer of finely-chopped parsley at the bottom of a baking-dish, lay the Fish on it, dust over salt and pepper, and moisten witli 4 pint of clear broth and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put the dish over a moderate fire till all the moisture has evaporated, then put it on to another dish, and serve quickly. Chartreuse of Fish. (1) Pick the flesh from cold cooked Fish of any kind, with the exception of salted Fish. Flake the flesh, and mix with it an equal quantity of mashed potatoes and two hard-boiled eggs; season to taste, and moisten with a small quantity of cream. Butter the interior of a small mould, fill it with the mixture, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for lialf- an-hour. When ready, turn the chartreuse out on to a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Pick and flake some cold cooked Fish, and mix half its quantity of stale breadcrumbs with it; bind the ingredients together with some well-beaten eggs, and season with salt, cayenne, and either tomato ketchup or Worcestershire sauce. Butter a mould, and proceed as for No. 1. Cold Boiled Fish a la Vinaigrette.—Remove the skin and bones from any cold boiled Fish, put it on a dish, sprinkle over finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, and garnish the dish with slices of beetroots, slices of cold boiled potatoes, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve with vinaigrette sauce in a sauceboat. Creamed Fish with Oysters.—Deprive two dozen oysters of their beards, and mix with them an equal quantity of cold boiled Fish; put the mixture into a stewpan, cover it with white sauce, and cook until the oysters are plump. Dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Creamed Salted Fish. — Remove the bones and skin from some cooked salted Fish, break the flesh small, put it in a saucepan, cover it with cream sauce, and stand it near the fire, or in a bain-marie, till hot through. Butter sufficient slices of hot toast to hold the Fish, put them on a dish, pour the creamed Fish over them, and serve with lemon and parsley for garnish. Curried Fish.—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices two moderate- sized onions, put them in a stewpan with a small lumpTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 500 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish —continued. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Pour over them some white stock, judging the quantity by that of the Fish, addloz of butter, and a sufficient quantity of curry-powder; season with salt, lemon-juice, a small lump of sug'ar, and a small quantity of cayenne. Boil the stock for fifteen or twenty minutes, then strain it into a clean stewpan, skim it, and put in the Fish, having carefully prepared it, and boil gently, but without breaking it. Wash and boil about ^lb. of rice in water ; when cooked, it should be rather dry, and the g’rains unbroken. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve it while very hot, with the rice separate. (2) Indian Style.—Wash the Fish well in salted water, cut it into slices, and for each lib. of Fish allow 1 tea- spoonful of minced onion, % teaspoonful each of minced garlic and ground turmeric, and a small quantity of cayenne. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the onions, garlic, and spices, and fry them. After- wards put in the Fish, fry it for ten minutes, then pour in 1 teacupful of butter. Put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the Fish at the side of the fire. "When cooked, turn the Fish on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, or toasted in front of the fire, and serve. Essence of Fish.—Put into a saucepan 1 lib. each of gurnet and soles in pieces, four shallots, two onions with a clove stuck in each, a medium-sized carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 pint of French white wine, and a little salt and pepper. Give the mixture two or three boils, then pour in 2qts. of Fish broth, and simmer gently till the Fish is cooked. Strain the liquor through a broth-napkin into a stone jar, leave it till cooled a little, then skim off all the fat, and put it by for use. Fish dressed a la Bouillabaisse.—Prepare this dish with several kinds of Fish, the greater the variety the better. Chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a clove of garlic, a small piece of orange-peel, and about 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; season to taste with pepper, salt, and spice, then pour in water barely sufficient to cover the Fish. When it is put in, add 1 pinch of saffron and a very small quantity of oil; set the pan over the fire till the onions are cooked. Trim the Fish, cut it into small pieces, put them into the stewpan, and stir the whole well over a quick fire. Put the Fish on a hot dish, and serve. It is necessary that this mixture should be cooked very quickly. Fish au Gratin.—Any kind of Fish may be served this way. Remove the skin and bones, cut the flesh into pieces about 3in. square, and season with pepper and salt. Make a sauce as follows : Put 3oz. of butter into a frying-pan, and set it on the fire or stove; when the butter is hot, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and brown it; then add gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring continuously. When the stock is boiling, put in a chopped slice of an onion and 1 dessert-spoon- ful of chopped parsley. Butter a shallow dish, fill it with the Fish and sauce in alternate layers, cover with finely-grated breadcrumbs, and bake for half-an-hour, or until the crumbs are well browned. Serve hot with tomato, tartar, or Dutch sauce in a sauceboat. Pish —continued. Fish in Aspic Jelly.—Put into a saucepan 21b. of knuckle of veal, a calf’s foot, jib. of lean bacon, three or four carrots and onions, one shallot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and add spices, salt, and pepper to taste. Pour in 2qts. of water, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is in rags, gradually adding more boiling water as this reduces or boils away. Strain the liquor into a basin, leave it until cold, skim off the fat, remove any sediment that may have settled at the bottom, put the jelly into a saucepan, and clarify it with the whites of two or three eggs and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag, and when nearly set, pour a thin layer into a jelly-mould, put in a layer of fillets of soles or other Fish, cover them with jelly, then put in a layer of prawns, next another layer of jelly, and proceed thus until the mould is quite full. Stand the mould in ice, and leave it until the contents are quite firm. When about to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish : garnish with prawns, parsley, and chopped jelly (see Fig. 748), and serve. Fish Balls or Croquettes.— (1) Any cold Fish will do for croquettes. Pick it carefully from all bones and skin, and chop it fine. Take one-third of its bulk of mashed potatoes, beat them to a cream with a little white sauce, add some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the Fish, and mix all well together; knead it into a paste, make the paste into balls, roll them first in beaten egg and then in bread- crumbs till they are well covered, and fry in boiling fat. Serve very hot, and garnish with thin slices of lemon. (2) Remove the bones and skin from some cold boiled Fish, pound it in a mortar, and add a little pepper, salt, and essence of anchovies. Flour the hands, roll this into balls, and dip them in beaten egg- and then in breadcrumbs ; put the balls into a wire frying-basket in a saucepan with boiling fat in it, shaking the basket about occasionally so as to brown the balls evenly. When done, drain, dish them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Take any cold boiled white Fish that may be left over from a meal, break it to pieces with a fork, remove all skin and bone, and shred the Fish very fine. Add to it an equal quantity in bulk and not weight of mashed potatoes, and work it with a little butter and milk to a stiff paste. A beaten egg is a great improvement worked into the paste. Flour the hands and form the paste into balls, and proceed as for No. 1. Fish Boudins a la Soubise.—Make 1 Jib. of Fish forcemeat, and mix with it a little more than Jib. of thickened and well-seasoned onion puree. Sprinkle some flour on a table, put the forcemeat on it, and divide into about fourteen flat-shaped boudins ; half cook them in boiling salted water, then drain, and dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the boudins, and fry them till nicely browned, turning them to cook both sides equally. When cooked, drain them on a sheet of thick paper, arrange upright in a circle on an ornamental dish-paper or napkin on a hot dish, garnish the hollow of the circle with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Fish Broth (Cuisson de Poisson).—Put 3qts. of water into a saucepan with 1 handful of salt, I wineglassful of vinegar, one carrot, and one onion (both sliced), § handful of whole peppers, one bunch of parsley-roots, three sprigs of thyme, and three bay-leaves. Cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Cool, and use when needed for various methods of cooking Fish. Fish Cakes.—(1) Put in a stewpan 1 pint of thick brown sauce; when it is hot add 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce and six finely-chopped ghei’kins. Remove the skin and bone from lib. of cold boiled Fish, divide it into little flakes with two forks, and pour the sauce over it; when cold, shape it into cakes, egg-and-breadcrumb them, fry in the boiling fat till brown on both sides, drain, put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut off the crust from a stale French roll, and soak the crumb in milk or wine. Remove the skin and bone from some raw Fish, cut about lib. of the flesh into small pieces, chop up two anchovies, and mix them with the Fish. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with the soaked roll, mix itTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 591 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish—continued. with the Fish, and stir in a little cream, seasoning with cayenne and nutmeg. Butter a plain mould, turn the Fish preparation into it, bake for half-an-hour, then turn it on to a dish and spread some breadcrumbs moistened with liquefied butter over the top; set it again in a moderate oven, or brown with a sala- mander ; garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. (3) Free about lib. of cold cooked Fish from skin and bone, chop it, put it in a mortar with |lb. of skinned and chopped beef-suet, 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and | 2oz. of butter. Pound the mixture until perfectly smooth, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce and two beaten eggs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, and with lioured hands mould them into round cakes. Put a large lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises put in the cakes, a few at a time, and fry them. As each lot are browned, take them out of the pan and lay them on a sheet of kitchen- paper in front of the fire to drain off the fat. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the cakes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Remove the skin and bones from ljlb. of white Fish, and mince as fine as possible. Put it into a basin and mix in j teacupful of sifted breadcrumbs, loz. of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, f teaspoonful of salt, and i teaspoonful of pepper, also 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, two well-beaten eggs, and f teacupful of milk. When thoroughly mixed, pour the mixture into a buttered plain mould, cover over with buttered paper, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over Dutch or oyster sauce, and serve with a garnish of thin slice of lemon. If preferred, the mixture may be put into small moulds, and will only require about twenty minutes to steam. Fish Chowder.—Put sufficient slightly-fried thin slices of pickled pork at the bottom of a stewpan, cover over with a thickish layer of any firm-fleshed Fish, such as bass, cod, &c., sprinkle over these with finely-chopped onions, then with crushed crackers or hard biscuits, adding salt and pepper to taste. Place another layer of Fish over this, then onions, next crackers, and continue in this way until a sufficient quantity of the ingredients is used. Dredge over rather thickly with flour, pour in sufficient lukewarm water to cover the Fish, place the stewpan on a moderate fire, and stew gently for half-an-hour or so, according to the quantity of Fish used. Take out all the Fish and keep it hot on a dish in an oven; add to the liquor in the pan loz. of flour well rubbed into ^lb. of butter. Place the saucepan back on the fire, cook for two or three minutes longer, add a little wine or any ketchup, stir well, turn it out on to the dish with the 1 Fish, and serve. The pork must be taken out before serving. Fish Consomme.—Put fib. of butter, four sliced onions, three heads of celery cut up small, five carrots cut into slices, four shallots unpicked, two bay-leaves, one sprig of thyme, three cloves, one clove of unpicked garlic, and twelve sprigs of parsley into a 2gall. stewpan, and fry to a reddish-brown colour. When they are nicely done, pour in 5qts. of water and 1 bottle of Chablis or Sauterne. Place the pan on the fire, and boil, skim, and add a little mignonette pepper, ljoz. of salt, 61b. of any Fish (gurnet preferred) cut into pieces, and the heads and bones of six large whiting, cod, or conger eels, but keeping their fillets to clarify. Place the pan on the side of the fire, simmer for two hours, then strain the contents through a napkin. Pound the fillets with the whites of two eg’gs, stir them in the liquor, replace the pan on the fire, and boil for a few minutes longer. Strain again, and it is ready for use. Fish Consomme with Whiting Quenelles. — Take two leeks, one large onion, and one carrot; chop them very fine, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter, adding 41b. of any bony Fish, such as gurnet, perch, or tench, the head of a turbot, or the head and shoulders of a cod or conger eel. Put in sufficient white wine and hot water in equal quantities to cover the Fish, then add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a few cloves, peppercorns, and a little salt; cover over the pan, put it on a brisk fire, and boil for twenty minutes ; when done, strain it, skim off the fat, and let it stand. Meanwhile, take lib. of whiting or pike, and chop it up very fine, put it into a stewpan with three eggs, Fish —continued. and moisten first with a wineglassful of white wine and then with the Fish broth ; put the pan over a moderate fire, and add a few celery-roots, carrots, and locks, all chopped fine. Stir the liquid until it boils, move it to the side, and let it stand until quite clear. Strain it through a cloth, and keep hot. Take two teaspoons, and with them form two dozen small quenelles of whitings, poach them in broth, take them out, drain, and put them in the soup-tureen. Skim off the fat, and strain the consomme5 over the quenelles. Fish Cutlets.—(1) Season 1 pint of any cold cooked Fish with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and make it into a paste with a little th'ck cream sauce made quite hot. Put the paste on a dish to about jin. in thickness, and when it is cold form it into the shapes of cutlets. Put them first into bread- or cracker-crumbs, then egg, and then crumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of hot fat, and fry until brown. If lobster is used, insert a small claw at the thin end of each cutlet for a bone, and for other kinds of Fish use a rather thick piece of bone. Drain off the fat, and serve. (2) Any cold remains of Fish may be used ; free it from all the skin and bones, and finely mince it. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and loz. of butter, pour in sufficient water to cover, and boil it gently for two hours. Strain the liquor, return it to the stewpan, boil up again, then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of one or two eggs and the Fish. Spread the mixture on a dish, and leave it until cold; then cut it into equal-sized pieces, trim to the shape of cutlets, and dip them in beaten egg-and-bread- crumbs. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises put in the cutlets and fry them until browned ; as they are cooked, take them out of the fat, and drain them for a minute or two on a sheet of paper. Spread a fancy- edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cutlets in a circle on it, fill the centre with a bunch of fried parsley, and serve. Fisli Forcemeat.—(1) Choose any solid Fish, such as brill, turbot, &c., take away the skin and bones and mince the meat very fine. Put an onion into a stewpan with a little butter, and stew it until quite tender. Pound it in a mortar with jib. of butter, adding a little at a time. Put 6oz. of crumb of bread into a little milk, and when sufficiently soaked take it out, squeeze dry, and add it to the onion mixture, also two well-beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, with salt and pepper to taste. These must be all well mixed, then add the Fish, previously passed through a sieve, and the paste can be made into balls, and either boiled or fried. (2) Remove the bones and skin from about ^lb. of the white flesh of raw Fish ; pound the flesh, and put it into a saucepan with |lb. of bread panada, 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley, ilb. of butter, the yolks of three or four eggs, the juice of half a lemon, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Beat the ingredients over a slow fire till quite smooth. Fish Fritters.—Take any cold boiled Fish, pick it free of all bones and skin, and pound it in a mortar. Peel a small onion, cut it into slices, and pound it with the Fish ; season to taste with salt and pepper, add an equal bulk of mashed potatoes, mix well together, and make all into a paste with beaten egg. Spread the paste out on a board, cut it into small pieces about 3in. across, either round or square, and fry them in boiling lard to a light brown. Fold a napkin over a hot dish, pile the fritters on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with any Fish sauce. Fish Glaze.—Put 41b. of gurnet in a stock-pot with 41b. of whiting and 61b. of soles, all cleaned and skinned; add lqt. of Chablis, 2jgalls. of water, and three whole cloves of garlic. When boiling, skim, and add lib. each of onions, carrots, and leeks, a large bunch of fresh sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of salt. Simmer till the Fish are cooked ; take them out, strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, and reduce it to one-third. Let it stand until the glaze is set, then cut off about jin. from the top and the sediment at the bottom, put the remainder in a stewpan, and stir it over a brisk fire till it is reduced to the consistence of thick cream. Then pour it into a basin or crock till wanted for use. Fish Gravy.—(1) Put 21b. of any kind of Fish-flesh cut in pieces into a saucepan with 4gall, of water, and add a blade592 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish—continued. of mace, three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small quantity each of lemon-peel and salt. Place the lid on the pan, set it on the fire, and boil until the liquor is reduced to one-half its original quantity ; then add a lump of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir well until the latter is quite smooth; or the flour and butter may be worked smooth in a saucepan and the gravy strained over them. Boil for a few minutes, and the gravy is then ready for use. (2) Clean and wash a few flounders or two or three eels, skin them, cut up small, put them into a saucepan with an anchovy, a small quantity of sweet herbs and whole pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, a good-sized blade of mace, a small crust of bread toasted very brown but not burnt, and 1 teaspoonful of scraped horseradish, and pour in sufficient water to cover. Pit the lid tightly on the pan, put it over a gentle fire, and simmer till the Fish is like pulp. Then add a thickening of butter and flour, boil for ten minutes, and strain. Fish Jelly.—Put in a stock-pot 41b. of gurnet, 21b. of whiting, and 61b. of turbot heads, if obtainable (if not, use the whole Pish), 41b. of soles, two heads of celery, three onions stuck with four or five cloves, one large bunch of sweet herbs, three carrots, two whole cloves of garlic, and 2galls. of water; season with salt and mignonette pepper. Boil up and skim well, and simmer for two hours; when sufficiently firm, strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve, add to it 1J pints of Madeira wine, clarify with the whites of eight eggs, and 21b. of pounded whiting; strain the jelly through a jelly-bag into a basin, and when cool stand it on ice to get quite firm. Before clarifying, a little of the jelly should be put on the ice, to see if it will set firm, and should it not set add a little gelatine. The above receipt is advocated by Mr. W. A. Rawson. Fish-liver Sauce.—Boil the liver of the Fish with which this sauce is to be served, and put it into a mortar; add a little flour to it, and pound well; mix in a little of the liquor the Pish is boiled in, or a little melted butter, or broth, some chopped parsley, a little soy, ketchup, or anchovy sauce, and a very little cayenne. Boil all together, rub through a sieve, add to it a little lemon-juice, and serve in a sauce-tureen with the Fish. Fish Mooloo (Indian).—(1) Pour 1 teacupful of boiling water over a scraped cocoa-nut, crush it well, strain off the liquor, add to the cocoa-nut 2 table-spoonfuls more boiling water, and strain again. Cut up two or three onions and three or four green chillies, put them into a frying-pan with half a clove of garlic and a little fat or lard, fry them, then pour in 2 table- spoonfuls of the cocoa-nut milk, stir well until it is absorbed or evaporated, and then add the teacupful of cocoa-nut milk. Have ready a cold fried Pish, pour over the hot mixture, add a little vinegar, ginger, whole pepper and salt to taste, and serve. (2) Cut up a Fish into pieces about 2in. square, put them into a frying-pan with fat, add an egg, a little breadcrumb and turmeric, and fry to a brown colour. Put some sliced green chillies and green ginger into a saucepan with a teacupful or so of cocoa-nut milk, boil up gently, add the pieces of Fish, and continue to cook until the sauce is thick. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve as hot as possible. (3) For this any Fish, such as fillets of sole, mackerel, haddock, or mullet may be used. Rub the fillets with curry- paste and salt, and fry to a light brown. Grate some cocoa-nut into a basin, pour over 1 teacupful of boiling water, mash well together, and strain. Fry some slices of onions in the butter the Fish was fried in, sift in a little flour, add the cocoa-nut milk, a little vinegar, salt and pepper, and stir well until done and thick. Put in the fillets to warm, not cook, and serve up. Fish in Normandy Fashion.—Put 5oz. of butter into a baking-dish on the stove or in the oven, and let it melt. Sift into it 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, stirring it meanwhile, then stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a very little grated nutmeg, a small quantity of salt and black pepper, a very little red pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Then put in 51b. of any kinds of Fish, without skin or bone, in pieces about 4in. long and ljin. wide, pour in 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and 4 table-spoonfuls of white wine, fit the cover on the dish, put a flour-and-water dough round the edge to keep the steam in, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve as hot as possible. Fish—continued. Fish Omelet.—Warm some scraps of any cold Fish in a stew- pan with a little sauce, such as lobster, shrimp, oyster, or anchovy, using only just sufficient to moisten. Mix together a little parsley and a few green spring onions, both finely chopped, and work up with a large lump of butter; place it in a deep oval dish, add the juice of a lemon, and put on the side of the fire to melt the butter. Beat one dozen eggs, the yolks and whites separately; season the yolks with salt and pepper, and mix them with the whites. Put about fib. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is melted pour in the beaten eggs; cook them over a gentle fire until brown on one side, then turn on the other and brown that. When done, take the pan off the fire, put the Fish in the centre of the omelet, double the edges over to the centre, and leave it a few moments to join. Put it on the dish, with the parsley and butter over, and serve. See Fig. 749. Fish Patties.—Make some light paste, roll it out about Jin. thick, and cut it into rounds all the same size, allowing two pieces for each patty. With a small cutter take out the centre of half of them, leaving a ring of paste behind. Now put the uncut pieces on a floured baking-sheet, wet the edges of them very slightly with a little milk or water, lay a ring of paste on each, and press the edges lightly together, but do not flatten the ring more than can be helped. Put them in the oven, bake quickly, and glaze with beaten egg. Take some cold boiled salmon, cod, or any other Fish, remove all skin and bone, and pick and shred the flesh very fine. Take a quarter of its bulk of mashed potatoes, mix it to a cream with some rich white sauce, adding the sauce by degrees, and beating quite smooth. Now mix with the Fish a moderate quantity of salt and pepper and finely-chopped parsley, and stir it into the potato cream. Do not beat it down, endeavour rather to heap it up and make it as light as possible. Fill the pastry shells with this, and put them in the oven to get hot through. Make a smooth paste by pounding and mixing' in a mortar the yolks of hard-boiled eggs with a little butter, and when the patties are quite hot spread a little over each, return them to the oven for a minute or two to set the coating of egg-paste, and serve. Fish Pie.—(1) Select a thick, firm, white-fleshed Fish, such as cod or halibut, and remove the skin and bones. Cut half of the flesh of the Fish into small neat pieces, and season them with salt. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in the pieces of Fish, and cook them over a slow fire for fifteen minutes without browning. Take the Fish out of the stewpan, and put in a finely-minced onion, another ounce of butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley, | table-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg or mace. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and stew until the onion is soft. Move the pan from the fire, leave the contents until slightly cooled, then mix in four well-beaten eggs, three or four scraped and boned sardines, 1 table-spoonful of capers, and the remainder of the Fish finely minced; stir the mixture well. Line a buttered pie-dish with paste, and fill it with the mince and the pieces of Fish in alternate layers. Cover with a flat of the paste, trim the edges, and press them together, first moistening them with water. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. It should be covered with a sheet of paper as it begins to take colour. Serve hot. (2) Remove the skin and bones from any remains of cold boiled Fish, and mince the flesh small. Put a finely-minced593 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special head: Fish—c ontinued. onion in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and stew it till soft, but without letting it brown. Put the Pish in with the onion, add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-mashed potatoes, season with salt and pepper, add more butter if required, and stir over the fire until hot and well mixed. When ready, pile the Fish on a hot dish, strew over with breadcrumbs, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and brown under a sala- mander. Serve very hot. (3) Carefully pick lib. of cooked Fish, put the bones in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and boil for half-an-hour. Strain oil about 1 teacupful of the liquor, and when it is cold stir 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into it until smooth. Put this into a small saucepan, and warm it over the fire till thick, stirring continuously ; add a lump of butter, and continue stirring- till that is also mixed in. Stand the saucepan on one side, and mix in one beaten egg, 1 dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence, i saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice; line the bottom of a pie-dish with mashed potatoes, mix the sauce with the Fish, put it in the dish, and cover with another layer of mashed potatoes. Decorate the top over with a fork, put it in a quick oven, and bake for twenty minutes, or until the potato crust is brown. Serve very hot. (4) Take some cold boiled Fish, pick it free from bone and skin, pull it to pieces with a fork, add some melted butter sauce, a little anchovy sauce, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When well mixed, put into a pie-dish, and cover with a layer of mashed potatoes mixed with a little butter and moderately seasoned with pepper and salt. Put a cover over the dish, and bake it in a moderate oven. When it bubbles, take the cover off and let it brown. (5) Almost any kind of Fish can be used. Clean and scale it, and cut it into small pieces. Butter a pie-dish, line it with paste, put in the pieces of Fish, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of bruised spices, and salt; put a layer of butter on the top, cover with a flat of crust, trim round the edges, and moisten and pinch them together. Put the pie in the oven and bake it. Meanwhile, prepare the following ragout : Put loz. of butter into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until lightly browned, then jsour jn gradually j pint of sherry and an equal quantity of broth ; put in a few mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of salt. Boil the sauce slowly for half-an-hour, then add to it two or three partially-boiled soft roes of carp, and stew gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. When the pie is cooked, take it out of the oven, lift the upper crust, turn the ragout into it, replace the crust, and serve. (6) Remove the skin and bones from a piece of firm, white- fleshed Fish, and cut the flesh into pieces; then strew some finely - chopped parsley, powdered marjoram, and salt and pepper over them, dip each piece in warmed butter, and lay them in a pie-dish. Beat four eggs with J pint of milk ; put halves of oysters in with the Fish, and pour the beaten egg over them. Cover the pie with a light puff paste, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Cover the pie with a sheet of paper to prevent it getting too brown. Serve hot. Fish. Pie a la Russe.—(1) Bone and skin lib. of any kind of Fish, and chop it finely. Boil lioz. of rice in water until quite dry. Put |lb. of flour on a paste-board, and make a bay in the centre; mix 1 teaspoonful of yeast powder and 1 salt- spoonful of salt; put them in the bay, and stir in the beaten white of one egg- and sufficient water to make a light dough. Dredge some flour over the paste-board, and knead and roll the dough out as thinly as possible. Spread loz. of butter over it, fold it in three layers, and roll out again very thinly; spread l-|oz. more of butter over it, then fold and roll again, and spread another l|oz. of butter over it, making 4oz. of butter in all. Fold the dough, roll it out into a square-shaped piece, put the boiled rice in the centre, and flatten it down; over this put two hard-boiled eggs, and then the Fish. Dredge over all a small quantity of salt and pepper. Brush the edges of the crust with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and fold them over. Brush the surface of the crust over with yolk of egg, lay it on a buttered baking-disli, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the pie on it, and serve. Fish—continued. (2) Remove all the skin and bones from some cold boiled Fish, and flake the flesh with a fork; put the trimmings and bones in a stewpan with f pint of milk, and let it simmer gently until well flavoured, then strain it. Mix a small quantity of flour and butter in a stewpan, pour in the strained milk, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of anchovy sauce, and stir until boiling. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of the Fish, cold boiled rice, and slices of hard-boiled eggs, and pour the sauce over the whole. It will, perhaps, be better to pour in a little of the sauce after every two or three layers. Strew some finely- chopped capers over the last layer, which should be of eggs, and lay on the top loz. of butter cut in thin slices. Put the dish in the oven until the contents are very hot. When ready, serve the Fish in the same dish. Fish. Pilau.—Clean any kind of Fish, wash it and rub it well with salt. Put G table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a saucepan, place it over the fiie until it commences to boil, then pour in lqt. of water, and add a little salt. Wash 11b. of rice in several waters, put it into the liquor when it boils, lay the Fish on the top, place the lid on the pan, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer until the rice and Fish are tender and the liquor absorbed. Move the saucepan back on to the fire, and leave it for ten minutes. Arrange the pilau tastefully on a hot dish, and serve. Fish in a Potato Border.—Remove the bones and skin from some cold boiled Fish; flake it, and mix with it a little hot white sauce. Mash some boiled potatoes with a little pepper, salt, and butter, till quite smooth; make a border with them on a dish, put the Fish into the centre, sprinkle some breadcrumbs, moistened with liquefied butter, over the top; put the dish in the oven, and bake till the crumbs and potato are brown. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Fish Puddings.—(1) Either fresh or previously cooked Fish can be used; shred it finely, put it in a stewpan with a good- sized lump of butter, and stew it gently by the side of the fire. Put the crumb of a French roll in a basin with sufficient milk to cover, and leave it until soaked. Afterwards mix the Fish and roll together, and beat them well. Season the mixture with a small quantity of finely-chopped mushrooms, and salt and pepper to taste, and beat three eggs in with it. Butter a few small cups, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Turn them out on to a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (2) Pound some cold boiled Fish in a mortar, put it into a saucepan over the fire with an equal quantity of bread- crumb soaked in milk, and stir it till it is as thick as dough. To fib. of Fish stir in loz. of butter, the beaten yolks of two eggs, a little chopped parsley and chopped onion, a very little cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg, stirring in lastly the whites of two well-whisked eggs. Put this mixture into a buttered mould, cover well, steam for one hour, turn the pudding out on a hot dish, pour white sauce over, and serve. (3) Remove the skin and bones from some cold cooked Fish, and flake the flesh with two forks. Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a basin with loz. of butter, pour about breakfast-cupful of boiling milk over them, put a plate on the top, and leave them until they have absorbed the milk. Mix the Fish with the crumbs, and stir in three or four well-beaten eggs; season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a pudding-mould, fill it with the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top. Stand the mould in a stewpan with boiling water to two-thirds its height, and steam it for a little over half-an- hour, pouring- in more boiling- water as the quantity becomes reduced, but be very careful it does not enter the top of the mould. When the pudding- is cooked, turn it carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Fish. Quenelles.—(1) Trim off the skin and bone from any kind of boiled Fish, finely mince the flesh, and mix with it a small piece of butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley, as much grated breadcrumb as there is Fish, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered ginger. Bind the ingredients together with beaten egg, work the mixture well, then divide and shape it into small quenelles. Put these into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil 3 A594 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads\ For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pish. —continued. gently for ten minutes. Put 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and fry them until crisp and brown. When cooked, drain the quenelles, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the butter and crumbs over, and serve hot. (2) Eemove the skin and bones from about fib. of uncooked Fish of any kind, finely mince the flesh, and mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced pork. Put 3oz. of butter into a stewpan with a finely-chopped shallot, and fry it until lightly browned; then put in f teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, f teacupful of cream, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir the egg mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but without letting- it boil, then turn it out on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Mix all the ingredients together with 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, using only a small quantity of the latter. When well worked, divide the mixture into small quantities with a table-spoon, giving each an egg shape, which is done by leaving the impression of the spoon on it. Plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, drain, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Pish Rissoles.—Make a puff paste, roll it out very thin, cut some rounds out of it with a 3in. fluted cutter, put a small piece of Fish forcemeat on each round, and fold one half over the other, moistening the edges of the paste so that they may stick together when pressed. Put some clarified butter in a frying-pan, and when hot fry the rissoles in it; when done, drain, dish them on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pish Salad.—(1) Pub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs to a powder, add by degrees and mix in smoothly 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, 1 saltspoonful each of pepper and made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and when these are well mixed add by degrees Fig. 750. Fish Salad. If g-ills of vinegar. Cover this dressing- as soon as it is mixed. Then take about lib. of cold boiled Fish, cut it into narrow pieces about lin. long, and wash and cut up small two heads of lettuce. Mix the Fish and lettuce in a fancy dish, pour the dressing over, garnish with rings of hard- boiled white of eggs (see Fig. 750), and serve whilst fresh. (2) Eemove the skin and bones from any cold boiled Fish, flake the flesh, and mix it with a green-lettuce salad; pour over it a salad dressing, pile it on a dish, and arrange round it slices of beetroot and hard-boiled eggs alternately, gar- nishing further with thin slices of lemon and a few sprigs of parsley. (3) Eemove all skin and bones from any kind of cold boiled Fish, and divide it into flakes with two forks ; pile the Fish in a salad-dish, and strew over it a moderate quantity each of finely-minced chervil, tarragon, and parsley. Mix 1 table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar with 1 teacupful of olive oil, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over. Garnish round the dish with a circle of rounds of beetroot, and then a circle of halves of hard-boiled eggs. Wash some anchovies, remove the bones, and divide each Fish into four fillets. Arrange the fillets in a fancy design on the top of the salad, and serve. Pish Sandwiches. — Clear out the bones and skin, cut up the flesh very fine, season with a sprinkle of pepper and salt. To every breakfast-cupful of Fish add 1 table-spoonful Fish.—continued. of essence of anchovies, and pound together in a mortar. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter ; put a layer of the prepared Fish on half of the slices, and a few coarsely- chopped sprigs of cress or lettuce on the Fish. Cover with the remaining halves, arrange them transversely on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. A table-spoonful or two of veloute sauce may be added to the Fish to make it soft and creamy. Fish Soup.—Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan on the fire, put in a couple of sliced carrots and a sliced onion, and fry them brown; then add lqt. of water, a sprig of thyme, two or three laurel-leaves, three or four cloves, 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, and f pint of shrimps; boil till the carrots are quite soft, then add any cold Fish, with the bones, and boil for twenty minutes. Toast some small pieces of bread, and put them in the tureen; add half a glass of white wine to the soup, strain it over them, and serve. Pish Soup a la Gironde. — Put lqt. of green peas, two chopped lettuces, and a handful of chervil into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for thirty minutes. Take them all out, drain well, pound the peas to a pulp, put them all into a basin, and mix in a handful of chopped sorrel fried in butter and 4oz. of breadcrumbs soaked in broth, and rub through a fine sieve. Prepare six or eight cods’ liver quenelles, flavoured with essence of mushrooms. Cut a slice of salmon into small pieces, sprinkle over with salt, let them remain for an hour, wash off all the salt, and cook in butter. Cut off two small slices from the thick end of the tail of a codfish, salt them, wipe them dry, and boil in water for about twenty minutes, or until the bones will easily leave the flesh. Separate the flesh into flakes, put them at the bottom of a tureen together with the quenelles, which should have been poached in broth, then the pieces of salmon, and lastly two or three dozen fried button-mushrooms. Add about 2qts. of boiling soup to the puree of vegetables, pour the whole over the other ingredients in the tureen, and serve. Pish Soup en Melange. —Prepare about 2qts. of vegetable soup. Put 1 pint of chick-peas into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them soak until the skins will easily come off. Take them out, shell and drain them, put them into a saucepan with about 2 pints of rich consomm^, add a large sausage and a clove of garlic, and boil slowly for about two hours, keeping the peas whole. Cut a slice of salmon into small pieces, and cook them in a saucepan with a little butter. Cut an eel into slices in a slanting direction and about lin. in width, and cook them in f pint of Madeira wine and a little stock, adding a bunch of sweet herbs to season. Take them and the pieces of salmon out when done, add both of the liquors to the consomme, and skim well. Arrange the sausage, cut into slices, and the salmon and eel at the bottom of a tureen; add the vegetables taken from the soup and cut up into pieces, remove the clove of garlic from the peas and put them next into the tureen, pour over the soup, and serve very hot. Fish Soup (Ouka). — In Eussia this soup is served in the same way as turtle-soup in England, and may be prepared with any kind of Fish in season. Put a knuckle of veal into a saucepan or stockpot together with two roasted fowls, and add more than sufficient beef stock to cover ; boil well for an hour or so, and skim. Then add two each of onions, carrots, and turnips, a head of celery, and a bunch of leeks; boil for five hours, adding more beef stock as it reduces, skim off the fat, and strain the liquor into a saucepan to keep hot. Cut off all the flesh from a perch and a brill or plaice, chop it in pieces, put them into a basin together with an eel cut up into pieces, dust over with salt, leave them for an hour, and then wash them well. In the meantime prepare some whiting- quenelles, mixed up with a little puree of mushrooms. Cut a sole into quarters, put it into a saucepan with the trim- mings of the Fish, and add 2qts. or 3qts. of mushrooms, two sliced carrots and onions, a few sprigs of parsley, a piece of bay-leaf, a little each of thyme and basil, two cloves, and grated nutmeg and pepper to taste ; pour over 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of stock, and simmer gently for an hour. Squeeze the liquor through a cloth into a saucepan containing the cut-up Fish, boil gently for about twenty minutes, strain the liquor into the saucepan containing the soup, reduce it by about one-third, add to it a little blanched sorrel and595 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., Fish—continued. chervil, and boil for about fifteen minutes. Put the pieces of Fish and the whiting quenelles, which must be poached but without boiling, into a tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. Sturgeon is to be preferred to plaice, and codfish should also, if possible, be used in making this soup. Fish Stew (German).—Clean the Fish, put it in a fish-kettle with water to cover it, and boil. Finely chop an onion, fry it with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, and put it in with the Fish. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of sifted flour and the strained juice of two lemons ; and when the Fish is done, pour this into the kettle with it, add some powdered ginger, pepper and salt to taste, and stew for two or three minutes longer. When cooked, turn the stew out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve very hot. Fish Toast.—Pick out all the bones of some cold Fish, chop the flesh, and put it in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk and the yolks of two eggs ; stir over the fire till thick, then Fig. 751. Fish Toast. move it to the side, but do not let it boil. Cut off a large slice, or more if there is sufficient Fish, from a tin loaf, toast and butter it, trim off the crusts, and spread it very thinly with anchovy butter. Cover with a layer of the Fish mixture (see Fig. 751), and serve very hot. Fresh-water Fish Baked in a Crust.—Clean some small fresh-water Fish of any kind, cut gashes on each side (called scoring), and sprinkle them with salt and pepper ; roll out some crust to Jin. in thickness, wrap the Fish in the crust, moisten and press the edges together, and bake them in a moderate oven for half-an-bour. Dish, and serve with egg sauce. Fried Fish Roes.—Any roes can be cooked this way. When well washed, put them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, add a little salt and vinegar, and boil for ten minutes. Mix in some finely-grated breadcrumb with a little chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Drain the roes, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in the breadcrumbs, and fry till brown in boiling lard. Drain them, put them on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Hashed Fish.—(1) Put about Jib. of uncooked salted Fish, from which the skin and bones have been removed, into a stewpan with four or five large potatoes, peeled and cut in quarters, cover with boiling water, and boil till the potatoes are done. Drain off the 'water, mash the potatoes and Fish together, and add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, a little pepper and salt, and one well-beaten egg. Melt some salted pork fat in a frying-pan, fry the hash like an omelet till brown on both sides, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Chop any cold boiled salted Fish, freed from all the skin and bones, with twice its bulk of boiled potatoes. Allow Jib. of fat salted pork for every pound of Fish, | slice it, and brown it in a frying-pan; then take it up, leaving the drippings in the pan, and keep it hot. Put the minced Fish and potatoes into the frying-pan, with seasoning of salt and pepper, stir them until hot, move them to one side of the pan, form them into a cake by pressing I together, let them brown on the bottom, then turn out on a hot dish, and serve with the fried pork. Should there not be sufficient dripping, a little butter may be used, but only enough to brown the hash. Pickled Fisk.—Cut the required quantity of any Fish into slices or pieces, dust them well with flour, put them into a frying-pan with oil, and fry them. Put into a mortar two or three sprigs of mint, two cloves of garlic, one capsicum Fish—continued. (which should be fresh if possible), and salt to taste, pound them well together, pour in slowly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of malt vinegar, turn the whole into a saucepan, and boil for five or six minutes. Take out the Fish and drain it, put it into a deep dish, pour over the hot vinegar, let it all get quite cold, and serve. Potted Fish.— (1) Free some cold cooked Fish from skin and bone, and finely chop it; peel some freshly-boiled shrimps or prawns, chop them also, mix with the Fish, put the whole into a mortar, and pound until smooth. Work in with the paste an equal quantity of fresh butter, and season to taste with pounded nutmeg, mace, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, pack it into small moulds, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top of each, and fill up with clarified butter. Keep the moulds in a cool larder. When wanted for serving, turn the Fish out of the moulds on to a dish covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with fresh green parsley ; or it may be served in the moulds if preferred. (2) Clean, skin, and bone sprats, shad, small mackerel, fresh herrings, or other Fish, cut the flesh into strips, pack it in layers in a stone jar, with a little salt and spices sprinkled over, also a few slices of onion. Cover the fish with vinegar, tie stout paper over the top, spread a layer of thick flour- and-water dough over that, so as to keep in the steam, and bake in a moderate oven for six hours. Take the covers off; when cool, cover them with fresh paper, and the Fish will keep good for some time if put in a cold place. Rechauffe of Fish.—(1) Use any pieces of boiled, grilled, or fried Fish, freed from skin and bones, lay them in a deep dish, moisten with milk, and spread over a thick layer of mashed potatoes ; strew plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs on the top, and over this put a few small lumps of butter here and there. Set the dish in the oven for a-quarter-of- an-hour, brown the top with a salamander, and serve. (2) Remove all skin and bone fron 31b. of cooked Fish, and divide the flesh into flakes. Put 1J pints of cream into a saucepan, with 3 teaspoonfuls each of mushroom ketchup and anchovy sauce. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and stir it into the sauce; when thick, add the Fish, and stir over the fire till hot. Turn the rechauffe into a dish, cover it with breadcrumbs moistened with liquefied butter, put the dish in the oven until browned, and serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce. Salted Fish (Spanish Fashion).—Put a piece of salted Fish in salted water to soak on the morning of the day before it is wanted; next put it into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it until cooked. When tender, drain the Fish, remove the bones, and flake it with two forks. Peel a large onion, cut it into thin slices, put it in a stewpan with some salad- oil, and fry until lightly browned. Put in the Fish, with a little tomato sauce, season to taste with pepper, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half; stir the mixture occasionally to keep it from sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. When ready, turn the mixture on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. Salted Fish Souffle.—Fill a pint measure with chopped flesh of cooked salted Fish. Boil eight large potatoes, and when they are done, mash them thoroughly; mix them with the Fish, work in 2 piled table-spoonfuls of butter, f breakfast- cupful of hot milk, and season with salt and pepper; add to this two well-beaten eggs. Pile the preparation on a flat dish, in which it is to be served, and place it in the oven for ten minutes. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add J saltspoonful of salt; beat the yolks, mix them with the whites, spread this over the fish, and set it in the oven ag’ain till well browned. Serve with or without sauce. Tomato sauce is very nice with this dish. Scalloped Fisli.—(1) Remove the skin and bones from lib. of any cold cooked Fish, put it in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful each of made mustard and walnut ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and J pint of cream. Stir this mixture over the fire till it is hot through, but do not allow it to boil. Turn it out on to a dish, flatten it down, shape it with a knife, cover the top with grated breadcrumbs, moisten with liquefied butter, brown it in a quick oven or under a salamander, and serve hot. 3 A 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 596 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fish—continued. (2) Remove the skin and bones from some cold boiled or baked Fish, spread it with Fish forcemeat in alternate layers in a shallow dish, and pour over just sufficient cream sauce to moisten the forcemeat between the double layers; when the dish is full, or the materials exhausted, spread over a crust of breadcrumbs mixed with liquefied butter, and bake in a quick oven till brown. Serve hot. (3) Remove all the skin and bones from any kind of un- cooked Fish, and cut the flesh into small pieces, but do not mince it to a pulp. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, make it hot, then put in the minced Fish, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and season with a small quantity of salt. Place the pan over a slow fire, and cook the fish gently. Put | pint of gravy into a small saucepan with 1 wineglassful of wine, season with grated lemon-peel, ginger, and nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne. Work 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful' of butter, put it into the sauce, and stir it over the fire until it is thick. Pour the gravy into the saucepan containing the Fish, with the beaten yolks of two eggs and a small piece of sardine butter, and stir it until well mixed. Fill some scallop shells with the ragout, put a layer of grated breadcrumb and Parmesan cheese over each, and baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the shells in a quick oven until browned, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve very hot. (4) Any Fish that is rather wanting in flavour may be used. Cut the Fish into neat slices, and put them in layers on a dish that can be served at table and will stand the heat of the oven. Sprinkle between the layers some finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs, a small quantity of cayenne, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Put loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then stir in 1 teacupful of milk. When the sauce is thick and boiling, squeeze a small quantity of lemon- juice into it, and pour it over the Fish. Cover the whole well with finely-grated breadcrumb, and bake in a brisk oven. When the Fish is cooked, and browned on the top, take it out of the oven, and serve while very hot on the same dish, with cut lemons on a separate plate. Scalloped Fish Roes.—When cleaned, boil the roes ten minutes in water with the addition of a little vinegar and salt. When done, drain, and break them up lightly with a fork, putting a layer of them in a shallow dish; rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg through a fine strainer, and sprinkle it over; follow that with a sprinkling of parsley and a squeeze or two of lemon- juice, pour over a little white sauce, spread another layer of the roe over the sauce, and finish as before. Then cover all with breadcrumbs, moisten with liquefied butter, and bake till the crust is brown. Serve very hot. Scorched Salted Fish.—Cut off the fleshiest part of some cooked salted Fish, divide it into long flakes, brown them under a salamander, arrange them on a dish, spread butter over the tops, and serve hot. Smoked Fish (Indian Mode).—Cut the Fish down the back, wash thoroughly, open it flat, and salt it. Sprinkle a little bran and brown sugar over a bright charcoal fire, cover over with an open-work bamboo basket, place a cloth over the top, set the Fish on this, and let it smoke, turning it over as soon as one side is brown. The smoke can always be kept up by adding more bran to the fire and fanning it. A cloth should be thrown over the fish to facilitate the smoking. The mango, beckty or hilsa Fish are the best kind for smoking. Smothered Fish.—Any kind of Fish can be used; it must first be scaled and thoroughly cleaned, then cut into pieces. Rub these well with salt, and leave them for a short time. Peel and cut four onions into slices, put them in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley and 4 table- spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them about over a brisk fire fire till lightly browned. Put a layer of them at the bottom of a rather deep earthenware dish, place the Fish on this, and cover with the remainder of the onions and parsley and any of the frying-oil that may be left. Cut three tomatoes into quarters, put them in with the Fish, moisten with 1 tea- cupful of cold water and f teacupful of malt vinegar, cover the dish, put it into a moderate oven, bake for twenty minutes or more, according to the quantity, and serve in the same dish. Fish.—continued. Spiced Fish.—Remove the bones and skin from lib. of cold cooked Fish ; flake it, put it in a stone jar, with 1 table- spoonful of moist sugar, eight peppercorns, eight cloves, five or six allspice, and i pint of vinegar to every lib. of Fish. Tie it down, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. Cloves and mace, in small quantities, can be added. Stewed Fish. —Remove the skin, head, and bones from any kind of Fish weighing about 41b. Boil the head and bones in water for twenty minutes, adding two onions, sliced and fried in pork fat till brown. Cut the Fish into 2in. squares, put them in a Fish-kettle, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and strain enough of the bone liquor over them to cover. Add a little lemon-juice, simmer for fifteen minutes, and thicken with a roux of a table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a little mushroom ketchup. Place the Fish on a dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Fish a la Turque.—Clean and wash the Fish required for the dish. Peel four large onions, cut them into rather thin slices, lay half of them at the bottom of a stewpan with a little picked parsley, put in the Fish, cover it with the remainder of the onions and more picked parsley, moisten with '2 teacupful each of malt vinegar, tomato sauce, and olive oil, and 1 teacupful of water. Stand the stewpan over a moderate fire, or at the side, and keep the contents boiling slowly until the Fish is tender; arrange it tastefully on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor round, and serve. Stewed Salted Fish as in Russia.—Put a chopped onion into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, fry it until slightly coloured, then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix well until quite smooth. Stir this into 2qts. of water in a saucepan, set the pan on the fire or stove, and as soon as the liquor commences to boil, put in six peeled potatoes, cut into slices, and a sprinkling of salt, and cook until done. Now put in the required quantity of salted Fish, cut up into pieces, add a few barley grits, a little chopped parsley and pepper to taste, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the whole is done. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Stuffed Fish.—Clean almost any kind of Fish, break the bones at the tails, and trim off the gills; remove the skins without tearing, and bring the heads off with them. Separate the flesh and bones, and chop the flesh small. Peel and chop three onions; put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a frying-pan, and make it hot; then put in the onions, and fry them till nicely browned. Blanch and skin 3 table-spoonfuls of pistachio-kernels, and wash i teacupful of currants; put the currants, pistachios, and Fish in with the onions, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of mixed spice, and stir the mixture over the fire until the Fish is nearly cooked. Stuff the Fish skins very carefully with the mix- ture, rub them over with flour, and dip them in beaten egg. Put about 1 breakfast-cupful of olive oil into a deep frying- pan, make it hot, then put in the Fish and fry them, turning them over carefully with a slice, to brown both sides. When cooked, drain the Fish for a few minutes, then lay them carefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Vinaigrette of Fish.—Put a cow-heel into a saucepan on the fire, pour over lqt. of cold water, and cook slowly for fully ten hours; strain the liquor and set it aside for a day. Skim off the grease and remove the sediment from the jelly, put it back into the saucepan with 1 wineg'lassful each of sherry and vinegar, season with lemon-peel, mace, allspice, pepper, and salt, set the saucepan on a very slow fire, and melt the jelly gradually. Should the jelly not be clear enough, clarify it with the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and strain through a jelly-bag. Pour a little of it on the bottom of a mould, let it slightly set, over it arrange a few capers, placing them in small piles; again over these place slices or pieces of any cold firm Fish such as sturgeon, mackerel, or salmon, then put over these twelve stoned olives, pour over more of the jelly, let it also get stiff, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Pack it in ice, turn it out carefully on to a dish, and serve with any desired garnish. A few boned anchovies or sardines may be added to the other ingredients.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 597 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Pish—continued. Vol-au-Vents of Fish Forcemeat.—Roll out some puff paste about ljin. thick, cut it into rounds with a 3in. diameter cutter, then take a smaller cutter, about half the size, and cut half-way through the middle of the paste rounds. Put them on a greased baking-sheet, and bake till lightly coloured ; Fig. 752. Vol-au-Vent of Fish Forcemeat. brush them over with beaten egg, lift out the small centre rounds, taking care not to break the edges, and fill the cavities with Fish forcemeat. Put the vol-au-vents on a napkin neatly folded over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 752. Vol -au-Vents of Fish Roes.—Prepare a puff paste, with -fib. each of butter and flour, giving it seven turns; roll it out Pin. thick, cut out fifteen rounds of paste with a channeled tin cutter, then with a smaller plain cutter cut out the centre of the rounds of paste, leaving rings. Gather the trimmings of paste together, and roll it out very thin; cut out of the flat of paste with the channelled tin cutter the same quantity of rounds as there are rings. Put the rounds on a baking- sheet at a little distance apart, brush them over lightly with a paste-brush dipped in water, put a paste ring on each round, press them slightly to make them adhere to each other, brush over with beaten egg, and bake, and when cooked lightly press the centre of each of the rounds. Blanch some soft roes of any Fish, such as carp, in boiling water, made slightly acid with vinegar or lemon-juice; leave them till cool, then cut them into thick pieces, and put them in a stewpan. Boil a little white sauce till reduced, thicken it, and mix a little anchovy- or crayfish-butter with it; pour the sauce over the roes, and warm them without allowing the sauce to boil. Fill the vol-au-vents with the mixture, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, and serve without delay. FISHERMAN’S SALAD.—See Salads. FISHERMAN’S SOUP.—See Soups. FLAGEOLETS. — The French term for kinds of haricot beans. See Beans. FLAM AND.—Fr. for Flemish. This is also the name given to a very rich cake, of which it may truly be said a little goes a long way. It is made as follows: Pound in a mortar ^ pint of blanched almonds, adding a little white of egg to prevent the almonds from oiling; when sufficiently fine, work in Jib. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and eight well-beaten eggs. Line a flawn mould with tart-paste, mask the bottom of it with apricot marmalade, sprinkle it over with fib. of chopped candied fruits, pour the almond paste over, and set the flawn in the oven. When done, ice it over with vanilla sugaring, and sprinkle over all chopped pistachio-kernels. FLAME CAKE.—See Cakes. FLAMUS.—This is the name given to very savoury provincial French biscuits or cakes, which are considered a very nice substitute for the usual course of cheese savouries. They are made as follow: Work up lib. of Camembert or Brie cheese with lib. of butter until they are thoroughly incorporated. Make a stiff paste with eight eggs, a very little water, and sufficient flour. Roll out the paste, and use the cheese mixture to Flamus—continued. spread smoothly over it, as though it were butter only and being used for making puff paste. Give this paste three turns, and then roll it Jin. thick, and cut it into little sticks the size of an ordinary finger. Lay these upon a buttered baking-sheet, bake to a light brown, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan along the top of each whilst it is still hot, and serve on a folded napkin (see Fig. 753). FLANNEL CAKE.—See Cakes. FLARE.—See Lakd. FLASH.—This name is given to a very pleasing drink, an especial favourite in some hot climates, such as the West Indies, where it is very popular. It is made as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of lemon water-ice into a large glass, mix in 1 wineglassful of Jamaica rum, pour over a bottle of iced ginger-beer, stirring all the time, and drink while effervescing. FLAT CAKE.—See Cakes. FLAVOURINGS.—These are correctly described as those things which are added to foods to give them character and taste, or zest. As may be imagined, this carries us over a very vast field, which it is unnecessary to enter here, the subjects being treated separately under special heads. The cook uses Flavourings in all kinds of stews, soups, and sauces, and in many other preparations, and these are either made up of herbs, vege- tables, spices, or other things blended with scientific taste, or purchased ready made as bottled sauces, &c. The pastrycook and confectioner use Flavourings which are commonly known as essences or extracts, and all writers upon the subject are most emphatic in their recommendation to avoid purchasing inferior and, there- fore, possibly deleterious Flavourings. In support of this argument a great authority writes: “ It is indis- pensable that they should be pure, fresh, and of the very best quality.” To obtain these properties, they must be procured from a factor who studies the confectionery business and has a solid reputation for them. It is a well-known fact in the trade, that when essential oils are old or adulterated they lose all their agreeable flavour, and taste of turpentine, which renders them particularly unpleasant. FLAWNS (Fr. Flans; Ger. Fladen; Itcd. Fiadoni).— These are flat pies or tarts, generally made by lining Fig. 754. Flawn-'RING or Mould. broad, shallow rings (see Fig. 754) with paste, and filling the interior with custard or fruits. A very large variety598 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processed, Utensils, Sauces, L-c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Flawns—continued. will be found distributed through this Encyclopaedia under their various headings, such as Apple Flawn under Apples, Apricot Elawn under Apricots, &c. The following receipts are somewhat out of the ordinary: Swiss Flawn.—Put 2qts. of milk into a saucepan with Idb. of butter, bring it to the boil, remove it from the fire, and work it into ljlb. of flour, forming a soft paste. Put it back into the saucepan, dry over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it into another saucepan, mis in Goz. of butter, lib. of Gruyere cheese and a Bondon cheese, pepper, salt, and pounded loal sugar to taste, and four eggs ; work them all until smooth, then add four more eggs and another lib. of Gruyfere cheese cut up into dice, work in also the whites of six eggs whipped to a froth, and 6 table-spoonfuls of cream; keep the paste hot, turn it into a mould, and bake in a slow oven for about two- hours-and-a-half. When done, turn it out and serve at once. Turkish Flawn.—Boil 1 lib. of rice in a saucepan of water, put it in another saucepan with 3qts. of milk, lib. each of sugar and butter, with the rasped rind of a lemon or orange, and a small quantity of salt; set the pan over a moderate fire, and cook so that the rice may swell by degrees but yet be kept whole. Stir it very gently, add lib. of well-washed currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and a few table-spoonfuls of well-whipped cream, so as to soften the preparation some- what ; now add the whites of twelve eggs, whipped to a froth, turn the whole into a Flawn-ring (see Fig. 754) prepared to receive it, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Turn it out, glaze with a salamander, and serve at once. FLEAD.—See Lard. FLEMISH CREAM.—Whipped cream strengthened with isinglass and flavoured with brandy. The name has been supplanted by others, such as Chantilly and other creams, in which isinglass is used to give them sub- stantiality. FLEMISH GARNISH (d. la Flamande).—See Garnishes. FLEMISH GAUFFRES.—See Waffles. FLEMISH SAUCE (a la Flamande).—See Sauces. FLEMISH SOUP.—See Soups. FLEMISH WAFERS.—See Wafers. FLESH {Fr. Chair; Ger. Fleisch; Ital. Carne; Sp. Carne).—In an ordinary sense the term Flesh would signify the muscles, fat, and other soft tissues which cover the bony framework. Cooks use it as applying to the muscles, or lean principally, of any animal, and with that licence peculiar to art, extend the meaning almost indefinitely to fruit and vegetables, as in speaking of the flesh of the plum or pumpkin. The word was probably introduced into England by our Saxon or Danish conquerors as flocsc, or flesk, signifying pork. FLET MILK.—An old name for skimmed milk. FLIPS. —A name given to drinks originally made with beer, spirit, and eggs, stirred and heated with a hot iron, called a flip-dog. Flips are now simply heated over a fire. See Eggs for Egg Flip. FLORADOR.—A palatable, wholesome, and nutritive food, prepared mainly from granulated wheat of the best quality. It is easily digested, and as a basis for milk- puddings and custards has a high reputation. Florador is made in three grades or sizes: Large-grained, used in clear or brown soups, or for porridge; medium- grained, suitable for baked or boiled puddings; and fine-grained, best adapted for blanc-manges and creams, pancakes, fritters, biscuits, and buns. The selected receipts here given will be sufficient to indicate a few of the many ways in which this food can be employed in both nursery and kitchen. Florador Blanc-mange. — Boil 1 pint of milk and add 1 pinch of salt and 1 teaspoonful of butter; mix 4oz. of Florador—continued. fine-grained Florador in £ pint of cold milk, pour it into the boiling liquid, stirring well; boil for a few minutes, add flavouring and 2oz. of sugar, pour into a mould, and turn out when cold. Florador Cake. — Mix together 3oz. of medium-grained Florador, 5oz. of flour, 2oz. of sugar, \oz. of caraway-seeds, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt; rub carefully into these 2oz. of butter, and add 1 large teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat up an egg, add to it not quite 1 gill of milk, and with this make the mixture into a stiff paste. Put into a small greased tin and bake from three-quarters- of-an-hour to one hour in a moderately-heated oven. Florador Porridge with Milk. — Mix 4oz. of medium- grained Florador with 1 pint of milk ; boil another pint of milk or water with salt and sugar to taste, and into this pour the mixed Florador. Stir the mass well till it has boiled for a few minutes, then serve with milk. Florador Soup. — Take any kind of nicely-flavoured stock, and let it boil; drop into it as much fine-grained Florador as will thicken it, and keep stirring. Let it simmer until done enough (ten minutes should suffice), and serve very hot; l.Voz. of Florador will thicken lqt. of soup. FLORENCE OIL.—See Olive Oil. FLORIDA SALAD.—See Salads. FLOUNDERS {Fr. Flets, or Carrelets ; Ger. Flunders).—Although these fish are of the same family as dabs, sole, plaice, halibut, and some other flat-fish, they ought not to be confused, seeing that in their shape, habits, and general appearances, they differ considerably. Flounder frequently figures at a Con- tinental dinner under the name of brill (barbue), showing conclusively that it is a very good fish for the table, even though it were served under its own anything but tempting name. For the name we are indebted to the Swedish f. undr a; cognate with Danish, flynder; Icelandic, flyndhra. Along the English shores many kinds of Flounder are caught, differing in very small particulars only, the best being what is called the common English Fig. 755. Flounder. Flounder (Pleuronectes flesus) (see Fig. 755). America can boast of some very fine species, such as the Smooth Flounder, Rough or Winter Flounder, Summer Flounder, and the Starry Flounder. British Flounders are in sea- son from January to September inclusive, deteriorating slightly towards the end of the year. In many parts of England, as well as in Scotland, they are known as Flukes. Baked Flounders.—Clean and split two Flounders, and pick out all the small bones. Butter a dish, lay the fish in it, and strew over them some chopped mushrooms, parsley, green onions, and rasped breadcrumbs ; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; put a few pieces of butter about on the top, and bake them. Make a sufficient quantity of caper sauce, flavouring it with essence of anchovy and the juice of half a lemon. When cooked, drain the butter from the fish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Flounders.—(1) Clean and wash a Flounder, make a sharp cut nearly to the bone down the back, put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover it, add ioz. of salt-599 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Flounders—continued. petre and 4oz. of salt to every gallon of water, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about six minutes or longer, according to the size of the fish, but taking care that it does not break. Take it out carefully, place it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serre with a sauceboatful of melted butter. (2) Clean and cut two Flounders in halves, put them in a fish-kettle with an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a lump of salt, a few cloves and peppercorns, and sufficient boiling water to cover them. Boil them until tender, then drain, put them on a dish, garnish with red cabbage, pour shrimp sauce over them, and serve. Flounder Boudins.—Remove the skin and bones from some Flounders, and pound the flesh in a mortar; mix with it half its quantity of bread panada and a quarter its quantity of butter. Work the mixture well, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; mix with it ^ teacupful of bechamel sauce, and bind it with beaten eggs, allowing twice as many yolks as whites. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height, and steam them for twenty minutes. Turn the boudins on to a hot dish, pour white sauce round, and serve. Flounder au G-ratin. — Prepare and clean the fish as for boiling, put it in an oval gratin-pan with loz. of soft butter spread over it, pour over ^ pint of white wine, and season with salt and pepper ; then pour over £ pint of Italian sauce, and sprinkle the top thickly with bread-raspings. Place the pan on the fire for five minutes to start the boiling, and then put it in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When done, serve, leaving it in the pan in which it was cooked. Flounder Salad.— Clean a Flounder weighing between 31b. and 51b. When boiled, drain it, remove all the skin and bone, flake the flesh with two forks, and put it into a basin. Mix some oil and vinegar together, allowing the oil to pre- dominate ; season to taste, pour it over the fish, and let it soak in it for about kalf-an-kour. At the end of that time put the fish on a colander or fine-hair sieve to drain. Wash a cabbage-lettuce, pull the leaves apart, and put them in a salad-bowl; put in the fish. Pour some remoulade sauce over the salad, sprinkle some chopped hard-boiled eggs and some picked shrimps or prawns on the top, and serve. Flounder Water-soucliet. — Remove the heads and tails from a quantity of small Flounders, and cut the fish into moderate-sized pieces; put the trimmings into a stewpan with a bunch of parsley, plenty of cold water, salt and pepper to taste, and a small piece of mace. Boil the above ingredients until the liquor is well flavoured, then strain it through a fine sieve into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of fish, and boil them very gently until tender. Put some finely-chopped parsley in with the fish just before removing it from the fire. When cooked, lay the pieces of fish in a hot dish, pour over a sufficient quantity of their cooking-liquor to cover them, garnish with lemon cut in slices and parsley (see Fig*. 756), and serve at once, accom- panied with thin slices of brown bread-and-butter. Fricassee of Flounders.—Clean and thoroughly wash one or two Flounders, carefully remove the fillets, dust them over with salt and flour, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them. . Finely chop one dozen oysters, put them with then- liquor into a saucepan, pour in a tumblerful of white wine, add also three boned anchovies, and salt, pepper, and grated Flounders—continued. nutmeg to taste. Lot them cook gently for two or three minutes, then put in the fillets, give the pan a shake, warm all up together, turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve with slices of lemon for garnish. Fried Flounders. — Select a few small fish, clean and prepare them as for boiling, score them over the back, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, dip them into milk, and cover well with flour; or dip them in egg and bread- crumbs, pot them into a frying-pan of hot fat, and fry them for four minutes ; then bring the fat to the boil, and fry for three minutes longer. Take them out, drain, dost them over with a little salt, put them on a napkin on a hot dish, and serve with a garnish of halves of lemon and fried parsley. Mirotou of Flounders. -Clean some Flounders, cut each one lengthwise into halves, and remove the small bones; place the flesh on a buttered dish, sprinkle over with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, green onions, mushrooms, and parsley, all finely chopped, a few bread-raspings, and a little butter. Place them in the oven, and when they are baked sufficiently drain off the butter, and pour over them some Italian or caper sauce, with 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies in each pint of sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon. Ne-wliaven Mode of Cooking- Flounders. —Well wash and dry as many fish as are required; sprinkle them with flour seasoned with salt and pepper, then brush them over with egg, and dust them with coarse Scotch oatmeal, repeating the operation so as to have them thickly covered, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley for garnish. FLOUR (Ft. Farine; Ger. Melil; Ital. Farina; Sp. Harina).—The finer qualities are known respectively as Fleur de Farine, Seine Mehl, Flor de Farina, and Flor di Harina, the term Flour being evidently a corruption of flower, that being the finest part of the plant. Blyth describes Flour as being the meal of wheat, and of the seeds of some of the Leguminosse, finely ground and “dressed”; but in a culinary sense we have but one “ Flour,” and that is wheat-flour, all other Flours being qualified by a name, such as cornflour, potato-flour, and others. According to the scheme laid down for producing this EncycloiDsedia, Flour should properly be described under wheat, as cornflour and others are under their specific headings; but as the term, when used by itself, admits of only one kind as the staple commodity, this is described here. There are several varieties of Flour, depending chiefly upon the proportion of bran they contain, and the com- parative sizes of the meshes of the sieves through which they have passed; thus we have fine wheat-flour (Fleur de Farina, &c.), commonly known as pastry- or biscuit- flour, or best whites. Then there will be middlings, seconds, pollard, country households, and some others, according to the fancy of the miller, and mode of “ dressing.” When wheat is ground it increases nearly double in bulk, and a good grain w.ould consist of 38J parts of fine flour, 8 parts of pollard, and 12 parts of bran, these being separated by sifting, or dressing, which is thus described by an expert: “ The process of dressing is by a wire cylinder containing a certain number of sheets of different texture or fineness, which cylinder contains eight hair brushes attached to a spindle, passing through the centre of the cylinder, and laid out so as to gently touch the wire. This cylinder is fed by a ‘ shoe ’ with the meal; then the Flour and ‘ offal,’ after passing through the wire in this way, are divided by wooden partitions fixed close to the outside of the cylinder.” The product of the first operation is: 1, Flour ; 2, white stuff or boxings, or sharps; 3, fine pollard; 4, coarse pollard, or horse pollard; 5, bran. The second product (white stuff) is then submitted to another dressing, through a fine cloth machine, and then yields : 1, fineTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 600 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dfcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Flour—continued. middlings for biscuits; 2, tippings or specks ; 3, dustings; 4, best pollard, called also Turkey middlings, or coarse middlings. According to one Mr. Hard, a practical miller, a quarter of wheat (5041b.) should yield: lb. Flour ... 392 Biscuit or fine middlings 10 Toppings or specks ... 8 Best pollard, Turkey pollard, or “ twenty-penny ” 15 Fine pollard ... 18 Bran and coarse pollard 50 Loss by evaporation and waste 11 504 lb. Of the nutritive qualities of Flour it is hardly neces- sary to say more than that it is one of the best and most useful alimentary materials we possess. In the form of bread, it constitutes the staple food of this and many other countries. It is made into bread, cakes, puddings, biscuits, and a variety of other valuable comestibles; and from the hard, highly glutinous wheat of Sicily, Russia, Sardinia, Algeria, and Egypt, numerous granular powders and dried pastes possessing great nutritive properties are manufactured, such as those known by the names of semola, semolina, soujee, marmacroup, macaroni, vermicelli, and Cagliari paste. According to Yacquelin, the best French Flour con- tains in 100 parts: Water 10 Gluten 11 Starch VI Sugar 5 Gum 3 100 When made into dough, about 50 per cent, is water. Blyth tells us that “ good wlieaten Flour should be sweet, and free from acidity. It should not lose more than 6 to 12 per cent, by being carefully baked in a stove; should exhibit no traces of bran even when pressed smooth with a polished surface, and its cohesive- ness should be so great that on being squeezed in the hand the lump should be some time before losing its shape. The colour of good Flour is white, or with a very slight tinge of yellow; there should be no lumps in it, or if any exist they should at once break down on slight pressure. When the Flour is made into a paste with water, its quality may be judged of by the tenacity of the dough, the length to which it may be drawn into a thread, or the extent it can be spread out into a thin sheet.” An experienced baker (Robert Wells), in a work on bread- and biscuit-making, says : “ To judge of Flour, take a portion in your hand and press it firmly between the thumb and forefinger, at the same time rubbing it gently, for the purpose of making a level surface upon the Flour; or take a watch with a smooth back and press it firmly on the Flour. By this means its colour may be ascertained by observing the pressed or smooth surface. If the Flour feels loose and lively in the hands, it is of good quality; if it feels dead or damp, or in other words, clammy, it is decidedly bad. Flour ought to be a week or two old before being used;” and as in keeping Flour it is apt to lie heavy, it is advisable at all times to sift it before mixing. The adulteration of Flour was at one time of common practice; but legislation has been very justly severe upon such frauds, with the result that additions for the sake of cheapening Flour are almost unknown. (See Adul- terations.) Alum is occasionally employed to whiten Flour and prevent injurious fermentation; but this is more often added by the baker than the miller, and by the pastrycook never. By putting a few grains of Flour—continued. the Flour under a powerful microscope the adulteration becomes manifest, standing out in uncanny prominence amongst the grains of starch. Speculative manufacturers have prepared a kind of Flour which is said to be self-raising. This property is due to an admixture of acid and alkali, which forms carbonic acid gas when wetted. The following is con- sidered to be a good receipt for preparing this Flour at home; but it is not recommended in preference to plain Flour treated in the ordinary manner : To every 41b. of flour use 2oz. of cream of tartar and loz. of bicarbonate of soda, mix them together, and sift several times through a fine hair sieve. Flour when prepared in this way will rise in making cakes, &c., without the aid of yeast. It should be kept well covered in an earthen or wooden flour-bin or barrel, for if damp gets to it the Flour will start rising before it is wanted to do so. Baked Flour.- -In baking Flour it should not be browned, as it is then no good : the best plan is to put the Flour in the oven towards night, especially if it (the oven) has been well heated during the day, and let it remain till the next morning. Press the Flour tightly down in an earthen jar, and put a saucer or plate on the top. Baked Flour makes a capital gruel when boiled with milk in the ordinary way; it can also bo used for thickening, and is better than the raw Flour. Boiled Flour.—(1) Put lib. of Flour in a pudding-cloth, tie it up as tightly as possible, dip it two or three times in cold water, dredge the outside thickly with flour so that a crust may form round it while boiling, boil for eight or ten hours, take it out, drain, and let it cool, still tied up in the cloth. Flour boiled in this way makes a capital food for children. Before using- it must first be grated, as when turned out of the cloth it will be a hard block. It can be boiled in milk like arrowroot, or any other way preferred. (2) Put a little Flour into a basin, press, and beat it down with a spoon and the hands, and continue in this way until the basin is as full as it will hold. Tie it over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for about twelve hours. Take it out, remove the cloth, and let it remain for a day ; then scrape off the skin on top, pound and sift the remainder, and put it into jars until wanted. Browned Flour. — Cover a baking-sheet with sifted Flour, and stand it in a hot oven for a short time, giving it an occa- sional turn so as to colour it evenly and prevent burning. Browned Flour is sometimes used for colouring soups and gravies. FLOWER ARTICHOKES.—See Artichokes. FLUKES.—The fish known in America as Flukes arc large and white-fleshed, resembling the European flounder in appearance. The flesh is firm and sweet, and several delightful dishes can be made from it. The Fluke is fre- quently confounded with the halibut, to which, especially as regards the flesh, it has some resemblance. It is always in season, but primest during the winter months. Baked Fluke.—Thoroughly wash the fish in cold water, remove the fillets, using a very sharp knife, and skin them, being careful not to mangle the strips by uneven cutting or hacking. Fig. 757. Baked Fluke. Cut the strips of fish in pieces of even size, about 4in. or 5in. wide and Gin. long. Roll up as many of those pieces as are601 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Flukes—continued. desired, making’ a little compact roll of each one, and place them side by side in an earthen dish which will just contain them. Season them highly with salt and pepper, put a pat of butter on each one, and bake them in a hot oven until the flakes begin to separate. Serve them at once in the dish in which they were baked. See Pig. 757. Fluke Soup.—Cut one-fourth of the flesh away from the bone and skin, reserving' the rest for other dishes, and boil it in boiling salted water until the flakes begin to separate. Then drain it and rub it through a sieve. To make 2qts. of soup, put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and set it over a gentle fire ; stir constantly until the butter and flour are smooth, then gradually stir in 2qts. of hot milk, adding ^ breakfast-cupful at a time, and stirring one lot in smoothly before putting in more. When all the milk is mixed with the flour and butter, season the soup with 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and J saltspoonful each of white pepper and grated nutmeg. Next, put in the fish, and stir the soup with a whisk until it boils; then serve it hot. FLUMMERY.—This term is of Welsh origin, and is derived from the word llymrig, meaning harsh, raw, or crude. Flummery was originally made by steeping oatmeal in water, and leaving it to get sour by fermen- Fiu. 758. Flummery-bowl (Old Style). tation. It is also described as a sort of pap for children, made of Hour and milk. The following receipts show that it is capable of many variations and improve- ments upon the original. It was usually served in a large special bowl (see Fig. 758). American Flummery. —Boil £ pint of milk with Goz. of caster sugar, a very small pinch of salt, and the rind of half a lemon. Mix 9oz. of cornflour with 1 teacupful of cold milk till quite smooth, then add it to the boiling milk, removing the lemon-peel; whip it well for a minute, take it off the fire, and continue stirring till thick and smooth. Blanch 3oz. of sweet and l-^oz. of bitter almonds, pound them together with a little sugar, then mix them with the corn- flour, put it over the fire again, and stir it till it begins to boil; then move it off, and mix in the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Rinse out a large mould with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and pack it in ice till firm. Prepare a puree of raspberries or strawberries, leave it till cold, then turn it on to a fancy dish. Pour the Flummery out of the mould on to the strawberries, or whatever fruit has been prepared for it, and serve. Chocolate Flummery. —Put 3oz. of cornflour and ljoz. of chocolate into a basin with 1 teacupful of water, and mix well; put it into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar and If pints more water, boil for eight minutes, stirring continually, and turn it into a mould damped with water. It should be served cold, with milk or cream. Dutch Flummery.—(1) Put 2oz. of isinglass into a saucepan with 1J pints of water, and boil very gently for half-an-hour. Flummery—continued. Add 1 pint of sherry, or raisin wine, the juice of three lemons and the peel of one, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon, to extract the essence, adding more sugar to taste. Beat well the yolks of seven eggs, mix them with the other ingredients, and give the whole one scald, stirring all the time. Pour it into a basin, and stir it till about half cold. Let it settle, pour it into a mould that has been oiled, or laid in water for a short time, and put it in a cold place to set. It is better made the day before using. (2) Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a small quantity of boiling water, then put it in a saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, the juice of two lemons, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and 1 pint of white wine; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and boil. Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs; put the yolks in a basin and beat them well, then pour in the boiling wine, stirring rapidly all the time. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until it begins to simmer, then move it off the fire at once. Stir the Flummery until cold, then turn it into a mould packed in ice. When set, turn it on to a dish, and serve. English Flummery. -Dissolve 2oz. of gelatine in li- pints of boiling water, and sweeten to taste; when cold, add 1 wineglassful of sherry, 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, the juice of three lemons, and 1 pint of well-whisked double cream. Rinse out one large or two small moulds with cold water, pour in the Flummery, and lot it stand in a cold place (in ice if possible) till the following day. Before serving, dip each mould into tepid water to loosen the contents, turn the Flummery on to a fancy dish, and stick blanched almonds (that have been shredded lengthwise) and halves of preserved cherries in alternate rings round the Flummery. Flummery Melon in Jelly. — Blanch and chop 2oz. of sweet almonds, pound them in a mortar, put them in a stewpan with joz. of isinglass, ^ pint of cream, and sufficient spinach- juice to tinge it pale green. Stir all over the fire till thick, then turn it into a melon-shaped mould, rinsed out with a little cold water. Get a plain mould also, holding about lqt., pour in 1 pint of clear calt’s-foot jelly, and let it stand till set. Turn the melon-shape out of its mould into the one con- taining the set jelly, fill it up all round with half-melted jelly, and leave it for some hours. When the jelly has quite set, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Flummery -witli Raspberries.—Put lib. of fresh or preserved raspberries in a saucepan over the fire with J pint of vinegar, let it boil for four minutes, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Put loz. of isinglass to soak in J pint of water. Strain the liquor from the boiling raspberries and vinegar through a hair sieve, pressing the raspberries well to get all the juice. If the isinglass is not quite dissolved in the § pint of water, put it over the fire and stir till it is quite melted; then dissolve in it Jib. of powdered white sugar, add the strained raspberry-juice, stir till it boils, then strain it through muslin, and pour it into a mould wetted inside with cold water. When perfectly cold, dip the mould into boiling hot water for an instant, and turn the Flummery out on a glass dish. Flummery witli Rhubarb.—Cut up 21b. of rhubarb into small pieces, put them into a basin with water to nearly cover them, cover over the basin, and set it in a moderate oven until the fruit is quite soft. Take it out, squeeze all the juice into a saucepan, add Joz. of gelatine soaked in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of water, and stir well over the fire until the gelatine is quite dissolved. Rub the rhubarb through a sieve into a basin, mix in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream and sufficient sugar to sweeten, and then add the gelatine mixture; warm up, without boiling, stirring con- stantly, turn it into a basin or mould, and let it set firm. Turn it out on to a dish when cold, and serve with custard. French Flummery.—Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan with lqt. of cream, and beat them well together ; place tbe pan on the side of the fire, stir frequently, and boil slowly for fifteen minutes. Take it off, add sugar to taste, and mix in 1 table-spoonful each of rose- and orange-flower water; pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and when it is quite cold turn it out.G02 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Flummery—continued. German Flummery.—Boil 1) pints each of white wine and water, and dissolve 1 pinch of salt in it. When this is. boil- ing, add gradually 9 table-spoonfuls of semolina; stir it over the fire for eight or ten minutes until thick, then take it off, mix in the grated peel of half a lemon, 1 breakfast- cupful of castor sugar, and the whipped whites of eight eggs, and stir till smooth. Rinse out a large jelly-mould with a little cold water, pour the Flummery into it, pack the mould in ice for a couple of hours, or until wanted to serve ; then dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the contents, wipe it quite clean outside, and turn the Flummery on to a dish, and mask over with a puree of strawberries or straw- berry jam. Prussian Flummery.—Put loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of boiling- water, and leave it for a few hours; next pour it into a saucepan and mix in ^lb. of loaf sugar, the juice and thinly- pared rind of one lemon, and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Place the saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling. Strain the Flummery through a flannel bag, leave it until partly cold, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. When the Flummery has set, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish, and serve. Turkish Flummery.—Pirt ilb. each of ground rice and sugar into a pan, and add -)oz. of blanched bitter almonds, and the grated rind of half a lemon; mix well and stir in lqt. of milk. Put the pan on the fire, stir continually, and boil for ten minutes, when it should be done. Turn it out, let it get cold, and cut into shapes. A pinch of powdered cinnamon is sometimes added. FLUTES.--At one time it was customary to drink champagne out of long narrow glasses, which were called Flutes. Modern innovation has exactly reversed this style, those now in fashion being broad and shallow. In French cookery the term Flutes is applied to a variety of productions, such as small long rolls (Brioches) or cakes. FOAM OMELET.—See Omelets. FOAM SAUCE.—See Sauces. FOGOSCH.—This fish is found chiefly in the lakes of Austria. It makes a very handsome dish, often weigh- ing 71b. or 81b., and the flesh is considered to be of good quality. The body is silvery in appearance, and the back slightly grey. Although a great favourite wherever it is to be found, and capable of being cooked in any way suitable to a large delicate fish, some of our best cooks prefer making it into quenelles, as follows: Remove the skin and bones from about lib. of very fresh Fogosch flesh, and with it prepare a forcemeat, in the same manner as decribed for Fish. Mould the forcemeat into quenelles between two table-spoons, and place them as soon as done in a flat buttered stewpan; cover them with boiling salted water, and poach for about fifteen minutes. Put about 1 teacupful of plainly-cooked tomato puree into a stewpan, add an equal quantity of melted glaze and 1 pinch of paprica. Boil the mixture for two minutes, stirring it all the time; then move it to the side of the fire, and mix in gradually, in small pieces, 6oz. of butter, still keeping it well stirred. When firm, drain the quenelles, arrange them on a hot dish in circular order, pour the sauce over, and serve. A foundation of the same forcemeat may be poached and set on the dish before the quenelles are put on, if liked. FOIES GRAS.—Ft. for fat livers. These are de- scribed under Goose. FONDANTS.—This term has become familiar to us for kinds of soft sweets that “melt” in the mouth, the name being derived from a French word which signifies to melt. Some very excellent receipts for their manufacture are given by Mr. E. Skuse in the “ Con- fectioners’ Handbook.” He styles them Cream Fondants. (1) Boil 71b. of sugar with 3 pints of water and 1 tea- spoonful of cream of tartar to the feather degree (see Sugar- boiling). Take it off the fire, let it stand a few minutes, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fondants—continued. then work the syrup against the side of the pan with a knife or spatula until it becomes thick and creamy. This will require some time, as the change takes place but slowly. Fill a tray with finely-powdered starch, and level it quite flat. Make depressions corresponding to the shapes required into the surface of the starch-powder, and having flavoured and coloured the cream as desired, fill the depressions care- fully. Cover them over lightly with more starch-powder, and leave for a time to set. They may then be crystallised. (2) Boil 71b. of sugar and 21b. of confectioners’ glucose with 3 pints of water to the feather degree (see Sugar- boiling) ; then pour it on to a plate, and with a palette-knife rub the syrup against the plate until it becomes white and stiff, like a lump of curd. Take this off the plate and put it again into the pan, and melt it over a slow fire, stirring freely all the time. When this is sufficiently melted to run freely, fill up the depressions in the starch, as described in No. 1. When set, lift the Fondants out of the starch, clean off by lightly brushing, and crystallise. Chocolate Fondants.—These are made in the same way as the preceding, with this exception, that chocolate is used to flavour. It is usual to divide the Fondant-paste into two portions, one remaining white and being flavoured with vanilla, and tho other being mixed with chocolate. The moulds, or depressions, are then filled half-way with each. An immense variety of shapes, colours, and flavours can be made (which may be crystallised or not), accord- ing to the ideas and tastes of the manufacturer. The following is the process advised for crystallising: Cream and chocolate Fondants require to be crystallised in cold syrup. Boil the syrup to the blow degree (see Syrufs), and while it is boiling add a few drops of acetic acid; remove it from the fire, cover over the surface with a damp piece of muslin, and let it get cold. The object of the damp muslin is to prevent a scum of crystals from forming on the surface ; or the scum forms on the cloth, and when removed comes away with it. It should never be left uncovered, or the scum would tend to cause the whole to grain and spoil. Fill some small square tin pans, about 2in. deep, with the articles required to be crystallised, pour over the syrup to cover, put damp cloths over, place them in a cool but not draughty place, and let them remain for about ten hours. Drain off the syrup, tilt the tins so as to strain off as much as possible, give the tins a knock, turn out the contents, separate them carefully, and they are ready for use. FONDUES.—These very favourite French savouries are made of melted cheese, the term Fondues signifying melted. By the following receipts it will be seen that a variety of cheeses can be used—fat or buttery cheeses for preference. They are generally served in paper-cases. (1) Put ilb. of grated cheese in a basin with 2 table- spoonfuls of warmed butter and the yolks of two eggs ; season with salt and pepper, and stir them well together. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add them gradually to Fig. 759. Fondues. the cheese, stirring lightly at the same time. Three-parts fill some paper cases with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and lightly browned, arrange the Fondues in their cases on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 759), and serve immediately. (2) Grate 2oz. of Parmesan and 2oz. of Gruyere cheese, and mix with them a little salt, pepper, and cayenne. Beat the yolks of six eggs with ilb. of warmed butter, stir them in with s, tic., referred to, see under their special heads.G03 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. mces, it'c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fondues—continued. the cheese, and also the well-whipped whites of the six eggs. When smooth, fill small paper cases, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Put the yolks of eight eggs into a stewpan, wliisk them for a few minutes, then put in fib. of butter, broken in little pieces, 1 pinch of pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Set the stewpan over a slow fire, and stir the contents till they begin to thicken, then add I lb. of grated Gruyfn’e cheese; continue stirring the mixture over the fire until the cheese is quite dissolved, then place the stewpan in the bain-marie. Blanch three or four handfuls of shred nouilies, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter; stir them over the fire for a few minutes, and gi’ate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese over. Mix 1 teacupful of rich cream in with the Fondue, turn it into the centre of a dish, lay the nouilies round it, and serve. Fondue a la Neapolitaine. Put Jib. of flour and ilb. of butter in a stewpan, beat them well together with a wooden spoon, and add rather less than lqt. of milk ; stir over the fire and boil for twenty minutes; put in Ilb. of macaroni that has been previously boiled for ten minutes, also fib. of grated Parmesan and fib. of grated Gruyere cheese; season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Whip the whites of ten eggs, stir them in with the mixture, fill a croustade with the preparation, and bake for one-hour-and-a-lialf in a moderate oven. Dish the Fondue, when cooked, on a folded napkin spread on a dish, and serve. Fondues made with Italian Paste.—Steep Jib. of Italian paste in boiling water for ten minutes, then drain it on a fine hair sieve till dry. Mix 1 table-spoonful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in a stewpan, and stir in gradually f pint of boiling milk ; stir over the fire till thick, then put in the Italian paste, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer; cut ilb. of Stilton cheese into small dice, and mix with the rest, also ilb. of grated Parmesan; season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, add the yolks of six eggs, and continue stirring till the eggs are partially set. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and mix them with the other ingre- dients as soon as they are cold. Fill some small paper cases with the preparation, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-kour in a moderate oven. They should be served very hot. Fondue with Truffles.—Soak Jib. of Gruyere cheese in milk for two or three hours. When ready, drain off the milk, cut the cheese in dice, and put it in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk. Beat the yolks of six eggs with 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk ; strain the prepara- tion through a sieve into an earthen pan. Put the saucepan containing the cheese and milk over a slow fire, and stir till quite melted; mix with it the beaten yolks, and continue stirring till of the consistency of cream, but do not let this boil; put in a pat of butter and two or three sliced white truffles, dust well with pepper, pour the Fondue in a deep dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. FOOD.—In a physiological sense this word may he taken to signify all or any material that is taken up by the body, and assimilated for the purpose of renewing tissues. In a culinary sense the application is principally to those things which are good to eat or drink, and are of animal or vegetable origin. Professor Tnson describes Food as anything which feeds or promotes the natural growth of organic bodies by supplying them with mate- rials which, by assimilation, may be converted into the substances of which they are composed; or which, by its decomposition or slow combustion, maintains the tem- perature, or some other essential condition of life, at the proper standard. The numerous articles employed as Food are all compounds, and in many cases they consist of mechanical mixtures or chemical combinations of two or more compounds. Organised matter, or that which has possessed either animal or vegetable life, or which has been produced by living organisms, seem to be alone capable of assimilation, to any extent, by the animal system; and hence it is from the organic kingdom that our foods are necessarily derived. Water, iron, earthy phosphates, chloride of sodium, and other salts, which form the inorganic constituents of the body, though not For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Food—continued. of themselves nourishing, are also assimilated when taken in conjunction with organic aliments, and then contribute essentially to nutrition. In the animal and vegetable substances employed as Food, these inorganic compounds are provided in small but sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of the healthy body, and in this state of combination alone can they be regarded in the light of aliments. A complete consideration of this subject embraces not only all the substances used as Food, but also those things which when taken with them improve their flavour, promote their digestion, and render them more wholesome and nutritive; and also their preparation for the table in its various relations with health and disease. This necessarily extends over such vast fields of infor- mation that it would require some volumes to treat the subject completely. The following Act of Parliament is however worthy of introduction as showing the pro- tective influences that regulate our markets, and thus ensure for our use good and sound Foods, their prime- ness of quality being left to the cook to decide for himself. Copious information will be found on all these points in these pages. See Digestion. “ Any medical officer of health or inspector of nuisances may at all reasonable times inspect and examine any animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk, exposed for sale, or deposited in any place for the purpose of sale, or of preparation for sale, and intended for the Food of man, the proof that the same was not exposed or deposited for any such purpose, or was not intended for the Food of man, resting with the party charged; and if any such animal carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk appears to such medical officer or inspector to be diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the Food of man, he may seize and carry away the same himself or by any assis- tant, in order to have the same dealt with by a justice. “ If it appears to the justice that any animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk so seized is diseased, or unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the Food of man, he shall condemn the same and order it to lie destroyed, or so disposed of as to prevent it from being exposed for sale, or used for such Food ; and the person to whom the same belongs or did belong at the time of sale, or of exposure for sale, or in whose possession, or on whose premises the same was found, shall be liable to a penalty not ex- ceeding £20 for every animal, carcase, or fish, or piece of meat, flesh, or fish, or any poultry or game, or for the parcel of fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, or flour, or for the milk so condemned, or at the discretion of the justice, without the infliction of a fine, to imprisonment for a term of not more than three months. “The justice who, under this section, is empowered to convict the offender may lie either the justice who may have ordered the article to be disposed of or destroyed, or any other justice having jurisdiction in the place. “Any person who in any manner prevents any medical officer of health or inspector of nuisances from entering any premises and inspecting any animal, carcase, meat, poultry, game, flesh, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk exposed or deposited for the purpose of sale, or of preparation for sale, and intended for the Food of man, or who obstructs, or impedes any such officer or inspector, or his assistant, when carrying into execution the provisions of this Act, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding £5. “ Any complaint made on oath by a medical officer of health, or by an inspector or other officer of a local au- thority, any justice may grant a warrant to any such officer to enter any building or part of a building in which any such officer has reason for believing that there is kept or concealed any animal, carcase, meat, poultry,604 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Food—continued. game, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, or milk which is intended for sale for the Food of man, and is diseased, unsound, or unwholesome, or unfit for the Food of man, and to search for, seize, and carry away any animal, or other article, in order to have the same dealt with by a justice under the provisions of this Act. “ Any person who obstructs any such officer in the performance of his duty under such warrant shall, in addition to any other punishment to which he may be subject, be liable to a penalty not exceeding £20.” Various other restrictions have been placed upon the Food markets and over the suppliers to ensure the ignorant from fraud; but it would be much better that housekeepers should know how to distinguish good Foods for themselves, and then the chances of bad Foods being supplied would be reduced to a minimum. Instructions for the careful and correct selection of Foods are freely distributed through these pages. See Adulterations. The tastes of man in respect to Food are peculiar and oftentimes acquired, but the fact that some things are surrounded with prejudice does not render them the less nutritious. For instance, cannibalism is contemplated with horror, but philosophy tells us that the flesh of man is perfectly adapted to the nourishment of man; and that snails, frogs, snakes, and other such delicacies are well calculated to fulfil the same office. In some countries where the influences of prejudice are unknown as regards certain Foods, the selection is peculiar. Bats are eaten in the Indian Archipelago; in the Arctic regions the fox makes a good pie—better than rabbit. Cats and dogs are a market commodity in China, and are said to taste something like wild boar. In the South Seas a dog is a favourite dish, and a stewed puppy forms a prime dish at a royal banquet in Zanzibar. Panthers and wild cats are. said to be excellent eating, and the puma’s and lion’s flesh closely resemble veal. Bear’s paws are eaten in many places, as well as bear’s hams and tongues, which are previously cured and smoked. Badgers are good, and kangaroo is not inferior to venison, while the tails form a very fine soup. An Australian native banquet consists of kangaroos and wallabies, opossums and flying- squirrels, kangaroo-rats, wombats, and bandicoots as prime dishes ; and rats, mice, snakes, snails, maggots, worms, and grubs are the side-dishes and entrees. A nice fat marmot has been pronounced a treat; musk-rats are favourites in Martinique; Indians eat beaver, which is said to be like pork; and porcupine forms a prime dish amongst the inhabitants of all countries in which it is found. Elephant’s feet pickled are a Cingalese luxury, and the fat of a hippopotamus is better than the best breakfast-bacon. FOOD FOR THE GODS.—See Ambrosia. FOOD PRESERVING. — The advance which chemistry has made in the interests of domestic economy is so great that, whereas at one time the number of Foods we were able to preserve comparatively fresh for an indefinite period was exceedingly small, by the inven- tion of modern appliances there are now few Foods, if any, that cannot be preserved according to one method or another. At one time drying or burying underground was resorted to without any knowledge of the preserving influence. Drying, especially after salting, and followed up with smoking, is of great value for preserving some meat and fish, whereas many fruits can be dried by simple exposure to a hot sun. When Pasteur ascertained by experiment that the access of air to Foods was the cause of their decomposition, the principle of preserving Food in tins deprived of air, and hermetically sealed, soon followed, with a success that is of the gi'eatest value to all, but especially to travellers, for the Foods so pre- served retain their original flavour and freshness. Pick- ling in vinegar is another mode of preserving, and meats subject to a freezing temperature will keep unchanged for Food Preserving—continued. a length of time (see American and Australian Meats, &c.). Boiling with sugar to make jams and marmalades, jellies, and other “preserves,” is of infinite value for domestic use. FOOLS.—These are favourite English dishes made by crushing stewed fruit, especially gooseberries, and mixing them with milk or cream, and named after the French word fouler—to crush. See Apples, Goose- berries, &c. FOOTS.—A very coarse kind of sugar, consisting principally of the refuse from the apparatus employed in a refinery. It is used by dishonest brewers and pub- licans to adulterate small beer. See Sugar. FORCEMEATS. — This term is a corruption of farce-meats, from the French farcir—to stuff. Forcemeats are very numerous, and used for a multitude of purposes, as will be seen from the following receipts, many others being given under specific headings. The meat must be chopped very fine, or passed through a mincing- machine two or three times, and then highly flavoured. American Forcemeat.—Place two very finely-chopped onions with loz. of butter in a saucepan on the fire for five minutes. Soak the crumb of a loaf of bread in water for fifteen minutes, press out all the water either with the hands or by squeezing in a cloth, put the crumb in a bowl with three eg-gs, 1 table- spoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of sage, £ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, three skinned sausages, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley, add the cooked onions, and mix well together; the Forcemeat is then ready for irse. Curried Forcemeat Balls.—Remove the veins and scraggy portions from about 21b. of beef, and pound it in a mortar. Add 1 teaspoonful each of powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, and sufficient beef broth or milk to form the whole into a mass. Work in a well-beaten egg, form the mixture into balls about the size of walnuts, and roll them well in sifted breadcrumbs. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of lard, fat, or mustard-oil into a pan, make it hot over a quick fire, add loz. of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, £ teaspoonful each of green ginger and peppercorns, £ teaspoonful of ground garlic, and £ table-spoonful of finely-chopped sweet herbs. Sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of water, and cook until the ingre- dients become brown. Now add the Forcemeat balls, sprinkle over with salt to taste, brown them, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and simmer on the side of the fire for about two hours. Turn the whole into a dish, and serve as hot as possible. Mutton or chicken-meat may be used in the same way, but if the latter, about 4oz. of beef-suet must be pounded with it. Forcemeat Balls.—(1) Finely chop lib. of beef-suet and 31b. of veal, put them into a mortar with a few herbs, a little grated nutmeg', dried mace, finely-chopped lemon-peel, salt and pepper, and pound them well, adding the yolks of two eggs to bind the mass. Form it into balls, roll them in flour, and fry in butter to a light brown colour. (2) Put some finely-shred beef-suet into a mortar with an equal quantity of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, pound them well, add half their bulk of ham and veal, and when all is well pounded pass it through a sieve ; add a little parsley, dried and rubbed fine, a few sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat up an egg in a basin, and stir it into the mass to make it of the necessary consistence. Take out pieces the size of filberts, roll them into balls, and poach in boiling water for eight or ten minutes, or until they float. Take them out, drain, and they are ready for use. (3) Cut a French roll in halves, and soak the crumb of one half of it in milk. Take it out when well soaked, squeeze it as dry as possible, and put it into a saucepan over a good fire with a small lump of butter about the size of a chestnut, working until it becomes a firm paste. Beat up an egg and add it, stirring well until the paste is quite dry; take it off the fire, and mix it thoroughly with 2oz. of pounded sausage- or any potted-meat, season with a little finely-minced parsley and a little thyme, and let it cool. Take it out and roll into balls, using plenty of flour on the hands ; put the ballsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 605 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Forcemeats—continued. into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry quickly until of a light brown colour, and done. Forcemeat Balls for Soup. -(1) Chop 1 breakfast-cupful of any cooked meat, add 1 saltspoonful of thyme, the same of salt, half the quantity of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a few drops of onion-juice, and 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. Beat the yolk of an egg, and add sufficient of it to moisten the meat. Boll the mixture into balls about the size of walnuts, put them into a deep plate, dust over with flour, and shake the plate with a circular motion so as to get the balls well covered. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into an omelet-pan, and place it over a moderate fire, shaking it occa- sionally so that the balls are cooked all over. When they are done and a good brown colour, they are ready for use. (2) Finely mince half a calf’s tongue, and add half its bulk of breadcrumbs and 3 table-spoonfuls of melted butter. Mix thoroughly, and add one egg, a little grated nutmeg, a few sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and form it into a stiff paste. Make this into balls (putting a little flour on the hands), throw them into boiling water, and poach for a little while ; take them out, and put them into the soup. Forcemeat Cutlets with Green Peas. —Bather underdone meat should be used if it can be procured. Cut the meat into small pieces, then put them in a mortar and pound, season to taste with salt and pepper, and for lib. of meat beat in the yolks of two eggs. Divide the meat into equal quantities, and flatten and trim them to the shape of small cutlets. If tinned green peas are used, make them hot by standing the tin in hot water; but if fresh peas are used, cook them in the ordinary way. Put a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the cutlets and fry them ; as each cutlet is cooked, take it out of the fat, and drain for a few seconds on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, with the peas in the centre, and serve. Forcemeat for Game.—Chop lib. of veal, 4oz. of fat pork, six large mushrooms, and lib. of boiled ham, put them into a mortar, and pound to a paste. Put 1 pint of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, and cook gently until the bread is quite smoooth and soft, stirring continually; add J breakfast-cupful of butter and J teaspoonful of pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of onion sauce, a little cinnamon, clove, mace, and grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of salt, and put it away to cool. When cold, add the meat, mix well, and pass it through a sieve, binding it into a solid mass with the yolks of four eggs. It may be used as a border, or in pies, or for quenelles. If for a border, it must be put into a well-buttered mould set over a saucepan of boiling water, and steamed for three hours before being turned out. Forcemeat for Hare.—(1) Bemove the skin and finely chop Jib. of beef-suet, mix it with lib. of grated breadcrumb, and season well with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and sweet marjoram. Bind the mixture with one beaten egg and a small quantity of milk, and it is then ready. (2) Scald the liver of the hare and chop it very finely with Jib. of ham; mix well, and add half the bulk of finely-grated breadcrumb, one washed, boned, and chopped anchovy, a moderate quantity of chopped sweet herbs and grated lemon- peel, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture with two beaten eggs and a wine- glassful of red wine, work it well, and it is ready for use. Forcemeat-and-Mushroom Pie.—Butter a plain pie-mould about Tin. deep, line it with short-paste, cover the bottom with a layer of Forcemeat prepared with fowl and truffles, and fill with mushrooms that have been warmed in butter, some sliced artichoke bottoms, and some quenelles made of chicken Forcemeat. Cover the pie with a round of paste, moisten the edges and pinch them together, brush the top of the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake. When cooked, lift the cover off the pie, pour in some strong, hot gravy, and serve very hot. Forcemeat Patties.—Bub ljoz. of butter in Jib. of sifted flour, and when smooth mix in gradually a sufficient quantity of beaten eggs to form a stiffish paste. Boll the paste out to about -Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 3in. in diameter. Put in the centre of each round Forcemeats—continued. a small heap of nicely-flavoured and cooked Forcemeat, gather up the edges of the paste all round, and bind them together with a narrow strip of paste. When all the patties are made, put a large lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put them in and fry a pale colour. As they are cooked, take them out of the pan, and lay them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain off some of the fat. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Forcemeat Pie.— Cut lib. of veal into thin slices, also fib. of poi’k and the same of bacon ; finely chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes without browning, then put in the slices of meat, and moisten with water to half their height, season with pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents stew gently. When the meats are tender, take them out of the liquor, chop them finely, and season with plenty of salt; season the cooking liquor with salt and pepper and a small quantity of finely-minced green herbs. Stir 1 teacupful of milk and three well-beaten eggs into the gravy, then mix the Forcemeat in thoroughly, stirring it over the fire for a few minutes, but not boiling it again. A small quantity of grated nutmeg or mace may be added if the flavour is liked. Butter a pie-mould, line it with a good pie-crust, and fill it with the mixture ; cover it with a flat of paste, trim it off round the edges, and moisten and pinch them together; make a slight incision in the centre of the pie. Cut some leaves with the trimmings of paste, moisten them underneath with water to make them adhere, and arrange tastefully on the top of the pie ; brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put it into a moderate oven, and bake. When lightly browned, cover the pie with a sheet of paper, so that it will not be darkly coloured. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it until quite cold, then stand the mould in tepid water for two or three minutes to loosen the pie at the sides and bottom, lift the pie carefully out, place it on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Forcemeat for Pies.—Chop Jib. of fat bacon with lib. of veal, with the skin and fat taken off ; add a little powdered herbs and mushroom ketchup, two eggs, and a little salt to season. Mix well, roll up into balls, and use for pies or any made dishes. Forcemeat for Pigeons. -Put 2oz. of butter into a basin, and beat it until it is nearly a cream ; then add Jib. of bread- crumbs, a little finely-minced parsley, lemon-peel, ground mace, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and bind the mass together with a well-beaten egg. Forcemeat Rissoles. -Take about Jib. of g-ood puff paste and roll it out on a board to the thickness of Jin., and with a paste-cutter cut it into small rounds ; put a little Forcemeat on each one, wet the edges, and cover them over with another round of paste. Mark the top with a paste-cutter, and press round the edges. Put some fat (butter preferred) into a frying-pan, and when it is boiling put in the rissoles and fry them until done. Take them out, drain them, and serve on a dish-paper (see Fig. 760). Forcemeat for Roasted. Sucking-Pig.—Parboil one or two small onions (or they may be left out of the stuffing altogether), chop them very fine, and add Joz. of powdered sage, Goz. of sifted breadcrumbs, and 4oz. of butter ; season606 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Forcemeats—continued. with cayenne, salt, and pepper, and add one egg to bind it into a mass. It will then be ready for use. Forcemeat for Roasted Turkey or Veal.—Take 2oz. each of breadcrumbs and beef-suet finely minced, which should be sufficient to stuff a turkey, and add any seasoning required, such as sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, parsley finely chopped, &c., and a little salt and pepper ; moisten with egg well beaten to make it into a mass, and it is ready for use. Forcemeat Toasts (Italian).—Cut some slices of bread about |in. thick, fry them crisp in salad oil, lay them on paper for a minute to drain them from the oil, and then spread over any savoury forcemeat; place them in a hot dish, pour over a sauce suitable to the Forcemeat used, and serve hot. FORKS (Fr. Fourchette; Ger. Garbehi; Ital. For- clietta; Sp. Horcas).—That “fingers were made before Fig. 761. Pointed Stick. Forks ” is so well understood that one looks back with something like familiarity to those times when Forks were unknown, and the foods were eaten with the fingers instead. It was not until the seventeenth century that Fig. 762. Norman Stale. Forks were invented, it being customary before then to pick the bits of meat off the plate with the fingers; ancl etiquette even in those barbarous times existed to such an extent as to prescribe certain rules for per- Fig. 763. Roman Iron Two Prongs. forming the delicate operation. Three fingers alone were to be used, and they were not to be kept too long- in the platter. The fingers again were not to be licked, nor allowed to remain greasy : they were to be wiped Fig. 761. Steel—Three Prongs. frequently upon the tablecloth. Many very amusing stories are related of the forkless customs of our ancestors, to whom much credit must be due for their j cleanly habits at table under very rude circumstances. Fig. 765. Modern. The first Fork was probably nothing better than a piece of pointed stick or bone (see Fig. 761); then followed the Norman Style (see Fig. 762) and, in order, the two- 1 Forks—continued. pronged Fork of the Romans (see Fig. 763), the three- pronged Fork (see Fig. 764) and, lastly, the four- pronged Fork (see Fig. 765), which is said to be of French origin. There are all sorts of Forks made now, having different uses. Some of these are described under special headings. FOUR.—Fr. for an oven. From this dishes have been styled, according to their size, Grands Fours or Petits Fours. FOWLS {Fr. Volailles; Ger. Vogel).— Under this heading we approach the most fertile subject known to modern cooks. Fowls seem to permeate so many branches of culinary preparations that it becomes a question of great moment as to what a cook would do without them. Together with veal, they form the very keystone of Continental cookery, but in this country their prices keep them somewhat more in the back- ground, reserving them chiefly for the tables of the wealthy. In France, Fowls are especially plentiful and cheap, for which reason, possibly, French cooks are very particular concerning their classification of the birds. In Engl and we recognise capon, Fowl, and spring chicken; but in France it is, according to age, Poulet a la reine, or spring chicken ; Poulet de grain, cockerel; Coq (vierge), cock; Poularde, fat young hen; Poulette, very young- hen; Cliapon, capon; Volaille, Fowls generally, and so on, classifying them also according to the province in which they were bred. In spite of this, it is doubtful if any cook or epicure could distinguish the kind of bird by the quality of its flesh, excepting as regards age. Dork- ings are the favourite British Fowls, because they grow with full breasts, and fatten readily without becoming coarse or greasy. They may be known by their feet, which have five toes. For roasting, the game Fowl is decidedly preferable; but for boiling, a bird with a whiter skin should be selected. A cross-bred bird between a Cochin China and a game Fowl makes a good all-round cooker; but the ordinary barn-door Fowl is that which mostly finds its way to our open markets. Bantams, especially of the game variety, are very fine flavoured, but are rarely, if ever, bred for killing. When choosing a Fowl, if a cock or cockerel, examine the spurs, which should not be more than lin. long. The breast-bone should be flexible; in old birds this bone gets very hard and tough, and is sometimes smashed down by beating, to give the bird the appearance of having a full chest. This practice is easily detected by the fingers, and as it is done to deceive, should be dis- countenanced. A Fowl with its breast-bone smashed is only fit for making broth or forcemeat, and bad for the latter; it cannot be carved satisfactorily, and the breast- fillets are lost. The following instructions are given for cleaning a Fowl: Lay the bird on its back with its tail towards you, cut a circle round the vent to free the bowels, then turn the bird about so that the breast is towards you, and the head and neck hanging over the edge of the table. Open the neck at the back, cutting lengthwise along the bone; and when this incision is long enough, draw the skinned neck in a loop through the incision. Chop off the neck at the base, and then cut through the skin of the neck across the slit, so as to leave a flap about 2in. long. Next insert the fingers through the opening in the neck and draw out the entrails, taking every care not to break them. If they should be burst by any accident, the interior of the carcase must be washed out and dried. If the entrails are sound, the inside may be dried only by wiping out with a cloth. Singe the Fowl, and the legs especially, until the skin will peel off by drawing a cloth along them. Shorten the toes and spurs by clipping them, and the Fowl is then ready for trussing. Some cooks cut off the feet just below the joint where the feathered legs commence: for boiling- it is as well to do this, but for roasting- it is not necessary.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 607 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,be., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Powls—continued. Sometimes the poulterer cleans the bird, and sends it to the kitchen in such a condition (see Fig. 766) that the Fig. 766. Fowl cleaned for Cooking. cook can either truss it for boiling or roasting, or it may be cut up for an entree as follows: Split the Fowl into halves lengthwise by cutting down the middle of the hack with a sharp kitchen knife, laying the Fowl wide open and chopping through the breast-bone from the inside. Lay one half on the board and chop slantingly through the end of the drum-stick at the hip-joint, or a little on the fleshy side of it; next cut off the side-bone and tail-end, leaving as much meat as possible on the body, a little of which may be taken from the thigh ; cut off the second joint by chopping straight across the Fowl, thereby dividing the quarters into three pieces of equal weight. Cut off the two small joints of the wing; chop off the main joint slantwise, so that it will have attached to it a piece of the neck-bone and a small part of the flesh of the breast. There will then remain nearly the entire breast, which should be chopped straight across to make two pieces. Cut up the other half of the Fowl in the same way. The object of cutting up a Fowl in this way is to provide for each person a piece of meat of equal size and appearance. Treated otherwise, one would have all meat, and another a dark-looking, bare piece of bone. Boiling1 a Bowl.—Break the bones of the bird just above the feet by giving them a blow with a knife, cut the skin round, and give the feet a twist, thus breaking them off, and with them the strong sinews of the legs. Chop off the wings just above the second joint. Slit the skin of the neck and pull it out, cut it off close, and trim the skin neatly. Make an incision along the back from the neck to the tail, then separate the flesh from the bones, beginning at the neck-end ; when the wing-bone is reached, disjoint it from the carcase, make a slit along the inside of the wing, and remove the bone; then disjoint the thigh-bone from the carcase. Proceed the same with the other side. Work along each side, detaching the breast, and being very careful not to break the skin, especially over the breast, where it is very tender; then remove the carcase. Make an incision along the thigh, dissect the bone from the flesh, scrape the flesh of the leg along the bone, and then pull it out in such a way as to draw out the remaining sinews with it. An old tough Fowl may be made very tender if pre- pared as follows: Cut it up into joints, put these into a deep pan with sufficient slightly-salted water to cover, set the pan in the oven, and let it remain until the bones can be easily pulled out. It will require three or four hours for this. More boiling- water must be added as the other boils away, so as to have the meat always covered. Now draw out all the bones, remove the skin and sinews, and the flesh will be quite tender and fit for using in stews, curries, or such-like dishes. By the liberal assistance of the staff of cooks engaged upon the Encyclopaedia, the following extraordinary variety of receipts has been collected. Instructions for Carving and Trussing will be found under those heads. Aspic of Chicken Puree. - Put a thin layer of aspic jelly at the bottom of a plain cylindrical mould, and place it on the ice; when the jelly has set, decorate it with some tongue and truffles cut into shapes with a biscuit-cutter. Prepare some chicken puree and some truffle puree, moisten each of Fowls—continued. them with a little warmed aspic jelly, and pour them into the mould alternately to about Jin. in thickness, letting one lot set before another is put in. When the mould is full and the jelly well set, turn it out on to a socle of rice, masked with ravigote butter. Surround the jelly with chopped or croutons of aspic jelly, and it is then ready for table. Baked Fowl.—(1) Singe, remove the pin feathers, and clean a chicken; then wipe it clean, stuff, and truss it. Bub it over with a mixture of salt, pepper, flour, and warmed butter, and put it into a baking-pan with a little cliicken-fat or dripping, and set it in the oven. When the flour is well browned, reduce the heat of the oven, baste well with its fat, and afterwards with 3oz. or 4oz. of butter melted in a breakfast- cupful of boiling water. When the chicken is brown on one side, turn it over on the other, so as to brown it well all over, adding- a little more water if there should not be sufficient to baste with. A bird weighing from 4)lb. to 51b. will require about one-hour-and-a-half to bake. (2) Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, split it down the hack, and dress it without breaking the entrails ; clean the heart, liver, and gizzard, and chop them fine. Put the chicken into a dripping-pan large enough to let it lie out flat, after first breaking the joints of the wings and legs, season it highly with salt and pepper, sprinkle over it the chopped heart, &c., put 1 tablespoonful of butter on it, and place it in a very hot oven for about twenty minutes, or until it is done at the joints and evenly browned. Turn it two or three times while it is cooking, to make sure that it is evenly done. Serve the bird on buttered toast, pouring- over it the gravy in the dripping-pan. Baked Fowls in Maryland Style. — Clean the required number of young Fowls, chop them down the back and then through the breast, and if they are large birds cut them into quarters. Wash them, and let them stand for a little while in cold water. Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and clarified dripping, or fat from fried bacon, into a saucepan (one large enough for the pieces of Fowl to lie flat without overlapping- one another), and place it over the fire to boil. The quantity of fat or dripping used will be sufficient for two birds. Drain the pieces of Fowl, dip them in flour to entirely cover, put them into the fat with the skin part downwards, dust them over with plenty of salt and pepper, put the pan into a quick oven, and let them cook for a few minutes, basting well. When they are done on one side, turn them over. When cooked on both sides, take them out and put them on a hot dish.. Bemove the grease from the gravy, leaving only the browned flour and the thick part that sticks to the pan, add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and boil up. Pour this over the Fowl, and serve. Baked Fowl with Tartar Sauce.—Singe, draw, and split a Fowl down the back, wipe it well with a wet cloth, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, spread over it a thick layer of softened butter, and dredge on both sides with fine, dry breadcrumbs. Put the Fowl into a baking-pan, the cut part downwards, and bake in a sharp oven for thirty minutes. Dish, and serve with Tar-tar sauce. Ballotines of Fowl with Jelly.—Clean and bone a Fowl, and stuff it with a salpigon of tongue and truffles mixed with Fowl forcemeat. When stuffed, shape the Fowl into a long roll about 2jin. in diameter, put it in a cloth, secure it at each end, and tie it across, in two places, very tightly with string. Put the Fowl into a stewpan, cover it with mirepoix, and when cooked take it out and let it cool for half-an-hour. Take off the cloth, and cut the Fowl through where the marks of the string are. Put a mound of boiled rice in the middle of a dish, cover it with ravigote butter, stand two of the ballotines on the mound, and put the third one on the top ; put chopped jelly in the spaces between the pieces of Fowl, garnish with croutons of jelly round the rice mound, and serve. Blanquette of Fowl.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cream sauce into a double boiler, add 1 pint of chicken meat, cooked and cut into small strips, and 1 table-spoouful of chopped parsley. Set the boiler on the fire, and when the sauce, &e., is hot, beat in the yolks of two eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and stir well for two minutes. Put a border of boiled rice, mashed potatoes, or strips of toast round a dish, pour the chicken in the centre, and serve.608 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Fowls—continued. Blanquette of Fowls a la Talleyrand.—Pluck two Fowls, singe and draw them, and truss them for roasting; fasten some strips of bacon round them, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire, but without browning them. When cooked, unwrap them, cut off the whole fillets, trim off the skin, and cut them into collops. Wash twelve heads of endive, scald and chop them, put them in a stewpan, cover with chicken-broth, put a round of buttered paper on the top, and simmer gently for two hours ; then put the stewpan over a brisk fire, and stir the contents till the moisture is entirely reduced. Put the fillets of Fowls in with the endive, add about 1 breakfast- cupful of reduced bechamel sauce, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir over the fire for a few minutes so that the fillets may get thoroughly hot ag-ain; then turn the blanquette out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Blanquette of Fowls with Truffles.—Truss the birds for roasting, bind slices of bacon round them, then wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire, but without allowing them to brown. Cut into thin slices some truffles that have been cooked in Madeira, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of reduced Madeira sauce, and warm them. When cooked, remove the bacon from the Fowls, cut off the fillets, and trim away the skin ; then cut them into collops, and put them in with the truffles. Turn the blanquette into a silver dish, and serve. Boiled Fowl.—(1) Put lqt. of broth into a stewpan over the stove, and when it boils put in a cleaned and trussed Fowl, and season with an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper. When the Fowl is done, dish it up, garnish with pieces of fried bacon, and serve with white sauce. (2) Gourmet’s Style.—Select a plump tender Fowl, and singe, draw, and truss it. Mix 2oz. of butter with loz. of beef-dripping and 1 pinch of tarragon-leaves, stuff the bird with it, and fasten securely at both ends; then put it into a fresh clean pig’s bladder, tie up the opening, wrap it in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, remove the Fowl from its wrappings, place it on a hot dish, and serve with a white sauce flavoured with tarragon. Boiled stuffed Fowl.—(1) Fill the body of a cleaned Fowl with small onions which have been half-cooked in milk. Boil the giblets with some onions and two or three slices of bacon, and when done, strain the gravy in a saucepan, put in the Fowl, and simmer till quite tender. Boil three large onions in a quart of milk, and when it is reduced to half its original quantity, thicken with | teacupful of flour that has been smoothly moistened with milk. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick, add two pats of butter and a little pepper and salt, and stir by the side of the fire till the butter is dissolved. Dish the Fowl, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw an old bird, stuff it with any kind of forcemeat and onion cut into slices, truss it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for fully four hours. Prepare £ pint or so of onion or white sauce, with a chopped pickled cucumber in it. Place the Fowl on a dish, garnish with slices of boiled bacon, and serve the sauce in a sauce- boat. Boiled Fowls a l’Allemande.—Take two Fowls, truss them for boiling, soak them in a basin of cold water for about an hour, and drain them well, then put them into a stewpan with hot water, to boil. When quite done, dish them up with a border of quenelles of potatoes, first poached and then dipped in fried breadcrumbs, placed round the Fowls, and serve with a rich German (a l’Allemande) sauce. Boiled Fowls a la Providence. —Singe, draw, and wipe two chickens, truss them from the wing to the leg with a needle, and boil them in a saucepan of broth for three-quarters-of- an-hour. Prepare 1 pint of German sauce with the broth of the chicken, adding 1 teacupful each of finely-cut boiled carrot and cooked Lima beans or flageolets, and cook for three minutes longer. Dish up the Fowls, untruss them, pour over the sauce, arrange the vegetables on either side, and serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over. Fowls—continued. Boiled Fowl a la Boyale.—Truss two Fowls as for boil- ing, lard their breasts thoroughly, and place them in a stewpan with stock up to the larding; then cover them over with a piece of buttered paper, put a tight-fitting lid on the pan, and let them gently simmer until done. While they are cooking, cut a croustade of bread in the shape of a vase, and fry it; put this in the centre of the dish, place the Fowls on either side, garnish the dish with a rag-out of cocks’ combs, truffles, button-mushrooms, and ham cut in fancy shapes, and pour over the ragout 1 pint of good white sauce, previously made hot. The croustade should have fine ornamented attelette skewers stuck in it, upon which may be arranged some of the pieces out of the ragout, and two or three crayfish. Boiled Fowl with Macaroni.—Boil ilb. of macaroni, broken in pieces, in boiling salted water for twelve minutes ; take it out, drain it, and set it in a dish with butter and salt sprinkled over. Boil a Fowl, and when it is tender, dish it, garnish with the macaroni, and serve with bechamel sauce separately. Boiled Fowls with Macaroni Dressing-.—Clean and draw two chickens, truss them for boiling, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add two or three sticks of celery, an onion and carrot, all cut up, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil until the chickens are tender, adding a few sprigs of parsley half-an-hour before taking them out. Boil the requisite quantity of macaroni in water until soft, and then drain it. When cooked, take the chickens out, and strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan and melt it, then put in the macaroni and the strained broth, season with a small quantity of salt, and place it over the fire until the broth is entirely reduced. Put the chickens in with the macaroni, and make them hot again; then arrange on a hot dish, pile the macaroni on the top of them, strew grated Parmesan cheese over all, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Macaroni Stuffing.—Break twelve sticks of macaroni in pieces about 2in. long, throw them into lqt. of boiling water, add 1 table-spoonful of salt and J table- spoonful of pepper, and boil rapidly for twelve minutes; then take up the macaroni, drain off all the water, and season with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt. After the Fowl has been singed and cleaned, stuff it with the macaroni ; truss it, tie up in a floured cloth, and plunge it into enough boiling water to cover. Boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then set the pan back where the liquor will just simmer for from one-hour-and-a-half to fwo-hours- and-a-half. The time of cooking depends upon the age of the bird. Serve with bechamel sauce in a sauceboat, and plain boiled macaroni for garnish. Boiled Fowl with Onions.—Select a young fat Fowl, singe, draw, and truss it for boiling, put it into a buttered saucepan with 1 pint of white broth, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over it, place the pan on a moderate fire, and cook gently for thirty minutes. Blanch lib. of small onions, place them in the pan with the Fowl, and cook gently for thirty minutes longer. Whilst the Fowl is cooking, it should be turned two or three times. Place the Fowl on a dish, pour the onions and broth over, and serve. Boiled Fowl and Fork.—Clean and truss a Fowl, wrap it up in a floured cloth, pin it round, and put it into water in which |lb. of lean pork has been boiling for three hours. The time required for cooking the bird depends upon its age: if it is not more than a year old, an-hour-and-a-half will suffice ; but if an old bird, then cook for three hours or so in proportion. Place the Fowl on a dish, garnish with the pork cut in slices, and serve with egg sauce in a sauceboat. The liquor can be used for soups. Boiled Fowl with Poulette Sauce.—Boil a Fowl in broth seasoned with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper. Turn fgall. of mushrooms, and prepare 1 pint of poulette sauce. When the Fowl is done, dish it, garnish with the mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Biice.—Singe, draw, and truss a Fowl, and boil it for fifteen minutes, as for Boiled Fowl with Bock-THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 609 Fowls—continued. salt (No. 2). Take out the onions and herbs, put in 1 break- fast-cupful of well-washed rice, and boil till the rice is tender. Dish the Fowl, add 1 teacupful of gravy or stock to the liquor in which it was boiled, pour the gravy and rice round the Fowl, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Rice and Cheese.—Make a mince with beef-marrow and the gizzard and liver of a large Fowl, and add a little finely-grated breadcrumb seasoned well with salt and pepper. Draw, singe, and stuff the Fowl with the mixture, truss it with its claws left on, and cover with slices of fat bacon tied on with string. Put it into a sauce- pan just large enough to hold it, and add a bunch of parsley, two cloves, a few peppercorns, and two smoked sausages, pour over hot rich broth to about half its height, set the pan on the fire, and boil. Before pouring in the broth, see that it is well strained, and all the fat skimmed off. When the liquor has been boiling for five minutes, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer tbe contents for forty or fifty minutes—that is, until done. Put |lb. of well-washed rice into a saucepan, add, to about three times its height, the liquor from the Fowl after it has been well strained but the fat left in, and put it on the fire to boil; then remove it to the side until the rice is cooked, being careful that it does not dry up, mix in a large lump of butter, some grated Parmesan cheese, and a little grated nutmeg. Remove the string- and skewers from the Fowl, put it on a dish over which the rice has been spread, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Rock-salt.—(1) Singe and draw a Fowl, scald the legs, turn them inside the body, cover it with layers of fat bacon, and tie it round with string. Half fill a good-sized saucepan with broth, and when the broth boils, put in the Fowl, and boil for an hour or an-hour-and-a-half. Put some pounded crystallised salt on a dish; take out the Fowl, drain it, wipe off all the fat, put it on the dish with the salt, put some more salt on the breast, and serve, with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled in a sauceboat. (2) Prepare and truss a small Fowl, put it in a saucepan, cover it with broth, add one onion stuck with three cloves, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. The Fowl should be wrapped in buttered paper, and then it will retain its whiteness. Boil gently for half-an-hour, turning it when half done. Take out the chicken, strain the gravy, add a few drops of burnt sugar to colour, and reduce to half its original quantity. Dish the chicken, pour the gravy over it, put 1 teaspoonful of rock-salt on its breast, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Tarragon.—Boil the Fowl in the same way as for Boiled Fowl with Rock-salt (No. 2), add |oz. of tarragon to the gravy, and reduce it for five minutes; put 1 handful of coarsely-chopped tarragon into it, having previously skimmed and strained it. Dish the chicken, pour the gravy over it, and serve hot. Boiled Fowl with Tarragon Sauce.—Singe, draw, and truss a large Fowl, put a piece of butter mixed with a handful of tarragon-leaves inside, cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, put it in a saucepan with the neck, gizzard, and some pieces or trimmings of veal, add 1 teacupful of Madeira wine, sufficient broth to cover, and some fat skimmed off some rich stock. When boiling, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take the Fowl out when it is cooked, strain and skim the liquor, thicken with a little roux, throw in a small bunch of tarragon-leaves, and boil for twenty minutes. Skim, strain, and reduce the sauce, thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir over the fire till it comes to the boil; then add a small piece of butter and 1 table-spoonful of blanched green tarragon-leaves. Dish the chicken, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Fowl with. Tomato Sauce.—Boil the Fowl as for Boiled Fowl with Rock-salt (No. 2), dish it, pour over li pints of tomato sauce, and serve. Boiled Fowl with Toulouse Ragofit.—Carefully dress a fat Fowl, truss it with the wings and legs close to the body, and put it over the fire in a saucepan to simmer gently in hot water or broth to cover it. While it is being cooked, make a ragout as follows: Boil until tender a large sweetbread and two cocks’ combs, and cut them into small For details respecting Culinary Fowls—continued. slices ; slice j breakfast-cupful of truffles, cut the tops from 1 pint of button-mushrooms, and prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of chicken quenelles; put all these into enough white sauce to cover them, and simmer for ten minutes. When the Fowl is tender, remove the trussing-cords, and serve it hot, with the Toulouse ragout for garnish. Boudins of Fowl.—(1) Prepare some quenelle forcemeat of Fowl and veal, rabbit, or fresh fish. Put two or throe onions cut into fine shreds into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry gently until tender, but not browned, then drain them completely of fat. Beat the forcemeat mixture up with a spoon, and add the small pieces of onion, taking care that they do not break whilst being worked in. When this mixture is quite cool, make it into a square shape about the length of a rolling-pin. Put a little butter in a saucepan, warm it, and rub it all over the pan ; place the boudin in, put a little butter over it, pour some boiling water into the pan, add a little salt, and boil until it has swollen. Take it out, drain, and when cool, cut it into thick slices of equal size; dip these first into beaten egg, then breadcrumbs, then egg again, and lastly breadcrumbs. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them golden brown; take them out, drain, arrange them on a dish (see Fig. 7G7), pour a little Italian sauce over, and serve. (2) Prepare some highly-seasoned Fowl forcemeat, mixing in a little essence of mushrooms; work the mixture well with a spoon, and when it is quite cold roll it out into a long shape, and cut into thick slices (see Fig. 768). Butter the bottom of a saucepan, put the boudins in, add a little salted water, and boil them until they swell; then take them out, drain them, and pour some bechamel sauce over them. In the meantime, take the small (minion) fillets of chicken, and tie them round a piece of fried bread or carrot cut the size of the boudins (if a carrot is used, it must have a piece of fat bacon tied over it first, before the fillets), and put them into a good oven to get firm. Take them out, glaze them, and place them on the boudins already arranged on a dish, with a little good consomme or broth, qualified with some of the liquor or juice of mushrooms, poured over, and serve. (3) Prepare a roux by melting loz. of butter in a saucepan, working in loz. of flour and 1 pinch of salt, and stirring well until thoroughly incorporated and quite smooth; add sufficient stock or water to make a stiff paste, and set it aside to cool. Cut off all the meat from a cold boiled Fowl, chop it up small, put it into a mortar with half its bulk of the paste, and pound it well, adding loz. of butter and a seasoning of grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; mix well, and add one egg and the yolks of three ; pound well again, rub the mixture 3 B Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. f ; ■ ; ■ J Fig. 768. Boudin of Fowl.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. through a fine sieve into a basin, and mis in 1 teacupful of rich cream. Have ready the required number of small, plain moulds (see Fig. 769), butter them well, and arrange round the bottom and sides pieces of slices of truffles and mushrooms cut into various designs; press them well against the butter, fill the moulds with the mixture, put them in a flat saucepan half full of water, and let them steam for twenty- five minutes. Turn them out carefully, arrange them in a circle on a dish, and pour over a sauce made with the trim- mings of the truffles and mushrooms finely chopped, butter, a little browned flour, salt, and pepper. They must be served as hot as possible. (4) Prepare a salpiijon with cooked truffles and chicken forcemeat, mixed with reduced brown sauce. Separate the mixture into small quantities, put them on a well-floured board or table, and roll them into balls with the hands ; then flatten them slightly to make them oval, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling' water, and poach them until they are quite firm. Take them out, drain, and trim them ; then dip each one separately into a little slightly-beaten egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until brown. Take them out, put them on a dish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- paper, and serve. (5) Free the white flesh of a cooked Fowl from skin and bone, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar until quite smooth; pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the mortar, and pound it again with the yolks of three eggs and 1 teacupful of cream, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the smallest quantity of finely-minced shallot. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, which should only half fill it, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam the boudin for an hour. While it is cooking-, prepare either some bechamel, truffle, or tomato sauce. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boudins of Fowls a la Heine.—Cut off the breast and fleshy parts of cold cooked Fowls, chop them into small pieces of an equal size, put them into a saucepan with a little bechamel sauce, add a seasoning, and boil until the mixture is quite thick. Turn it out on to a dish, and while it is cooling, make it into a good shape with a knife, cut it in halves, and roll out like rolling-pins to the length of the dish. Next roll them in breadcrumbs, then dip them in egg beaten with salt, and then breadcrumbs again, taking care that the ends are well covered. Place them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until brown. Take them out, drain them, remove all the grease by wiping' them with a cloth, dish them up, pour a little thin bechamel sauce round them, and serve. Braised Fillets of Fowl.-Cut off some fillets of Fowl, and with a larding-needle lard each of them with four strips of fat pork ; put a slice of fat pork for each fillet on the bottom of a braising-pan, and on the top of the pork a little piece of onion; sprinkle the fillets over with salt, pepper, and flour, place them on the top of the pork and onion, pour in 2 pints of stock, cover over the pan, and cook for an hour or so, basting frequently. A little more water or stock may be required if the other boils away, so that when it is completely done at the end of the hour there will be about 1 pint left in the pan. When done, take out the fillets, drain them, cover them with slightly warmed butter, and dust them over with flour again; then place them on a gridiron over a good fire, and broil them until they are a light brown colour. After the meat has been removed from the gravy, skim off the fat; put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of flour into a saucepan, and cook until of a light brown; then add it to the gravy, and boil up again. Place the fillets on a dish, and pour the sauce round them, or put them on a heap of mashed potatoes, with a little parsley at the edge and the sauce poured round. Braised Fowls. — (1) Clean and prepare three young’ fat chickens, and cut each of them up into quarters. Put a little butter at the bottom of a saucepan, and when it is melted put in it a layer of sweet herbs, a little onion, shallot, and mushrooms, all finely chopped, and a large bunch of parsley. Place the legs first and then the remainder of Fowls—continued. the Fowls on them, sprinkle over a little more sweet herbs, cover over the pan, set it on the fire, and place hot ashes on the lid. Let this cook for twenty minutes or so; then put the meat on a dish, pour a little melted glaze over the herbs, pour them over the chicken, and serve. (2) Hungarian.—Clean a couple of chickens, singe them, and cut them up into five pieces each ; chop the back-bones in halves, dust them over with a little paprica (a kind of pepper prepared in Hungary), and put them into a saucepan with their pinions, a large onion finely minced, 5oz. of un- cooked ham cut in small pieces, and a little salt and pepper to season. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and cook until their moisture is reduced a little; add a few table- spoonfuls of good gravy, cover over the pan, and put hot ashes on the lid, so that the Fowls will braise without too much moisture. When they are nearly done, add 1 breakfast- cupful of sour cream to the liquor, to thicken it, and let it simmer for twelve minutes longer. Take out the Fowls, put them on a dish, and place the pan on a quick fire to reduce the liquor. Stir well, and add a little more paprica, the juice of a lemon, and a little piece of butter. Pass this through a fine sieve over the Fowls, and serve. (3) Milanaise Style. — Prepare and truss the bird as for boiling, lard it with thin fillets of bacon, and put an onion inside. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, and onions, put in the Fowl with a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, add stock to nearly cover it, and braise it over a gentle fire. Baste the breast of the Fowl occasionally with its cooking stock. Thoroughly wash 4oz. of rice, throw it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it until the grains burst. Drain all the water from the rice, put a cloth three or four times doubled over the saucepan, and leave it at the side of the fire until the rice is quite dry. Work 1 breakfast-cupful each of tomato sauce and strained cooking' liquor of the Fowls in with the rice, and strew in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese ; stir the mixture over the the fire for a few minutes, then pack it in a buttered border- mould, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. When the Fowl is cooked, strain and free from fat a sufficient quantity of its liquor to make a sauceboatful of gravy; turn the border of rice out of its mould on to a hot dish, place the Fowl in the centre, brown the breast under a hot salamander, and serve with the gravy. Braised Fowls a la Conde.—Prepare and cook a couple of Fowls, as for Braised Fowls a la Montmorency, omitting the dipping' of the breasts in water. Make a few incisions with a sharp knife, put in the cuts some thin slices of truffles and tongue cut into the shapes of cocks’ combs, and braise them. Serve with German sauce poured over them. Braised Fowls a la Montmorency.—Take a couple of Fowls of equal size and whiteness, draw and singe them, fill the insides with a paste made of butter, lemon-juice, salt and pepper, and tie them up into shape. Put a saucepan of water on the fire, and when it boils, dip the breasts of the birds in for a few minutes to make the meat firm. Lard the breasts with thin strips of fat bacon, put the Fowls into an oval-shaped saucepan, and put several layers of bacon round but not over them, add a little good broth (that has only just been made, for if it has been made any time it will turn the meat red) to them to moisten, place the pan on the fire, and cover the lid over with hot ashes to cook the bacon quickly; when this is a good brown colour, the ashes may be taken off and the Fowls left to cook for thirty minutes quite gently. Take them out, drain them, remove the string, and place them on a dish, with a ragout a la Finaneiere served with them. Braised Fowl a la Printaniere.—Singe, draw, and truss a large Fowl, put it in a stewpan, add 8oz. of chopped bacon, and fry the Fowl lightly. Scald and chop in small squares about ^lb. of streaky bacon, put it in the stewpan with four small carrots and onions, season with salt, add 1 teacupful of broth, put the lid on the stewpan with some live embers on the top, stand it over a moderate fire, and finish braising. Dish the Fowl, mix some cooked peas with the vegetables, and garnish the dish with them. Stir and mix an equal quantity of white sauce with the liquor, boil for a few minutes, strain, pour it over, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 611 Fowls—continued. Fowls—continued. Braised Fowls a la Turque.—Select a couple of young Fowls of about the same size (taking care to have them perfectly white), singe and draw them, remove the breast- bone, and well wash them inside. Wash and clean 21b. or 31b. of rice, and boil it in good consomme; when it is suffi- ciently cooked and quite thick, sprinkle part of it with salt and pepper, and put it in the insides of the Fowls, turning in the rump to prevent the rice from coming out when being cooked. Tie them round with layers of bacon and pieces of buttered paper, and place them in a braising-pan to cook. Leave them over a moderate fire for an hour, when they should be perfectly done. Take them out, and remove the string, paper, and bacon ; add 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and 1 table-spoonful of thick cream to the rest of the rice, season with salt and pepper, and put it in a layer on a dish. Place the Fowls on this, and serve. Braised Fowls with Macaroni.—Clean and truss two Fowls as for boiling, and put an onion and a small lump of butter in each. Spread two or three slices of fat bacon over the bottom of a stewpan, put in the birds with some chopped carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of stock, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Braise them very gently until tender, basting- them constantly with their cooking liquor. Have a saucepan of boiling salted water over the fire, and throw into it lib. of macaroni, broken into convenient lengths ; when the macaroni is cooked, drain off all the water, and mix with it loz. of butter and a small bottle of tomato sauce. Stir the macaroni over the fire, and strew in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese. Drain the Fowls when cooked, put them on a hot dish, pile the macaroni round them, and serve. Braised Fowls with Mushrooms.—Select three birds, the smaller the better, singe and truss them for boiling, put some slices of bacon over them, tie it on with string, and place them in a braising-pan on the top of some vegetables cut in slices, a few trimmings of mushrooms and chopped ham, and pour in sufficient good broth to half the height of the Fowls. Slip in a bunch of parsley, tied up with string, put the pan on a good fire, and braise, covering the lid over with hot ashes. When they have remained like this for forty minutes, take them out, pass the liquor through a fine sieve, and remove all the fat. In the meantime, put two dozen mush- rooms into a saucepan with a little butter and lemon-juice, and cook them. Put about fqt. of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, and place it over a brisk fire. When it has reduced a little, add to it gradually the liquor from the Fowls, which has previously been reduced to half glaze, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of the mushroom liquor, well skimmed of its fat; and as soon as this sauce is done, take it off the fire and add a large lump of butter. Cut the string away from the Fowls, remove the bacon, and put them on a dish in the shape of a triangle, having their legs towards the centre. Put eight small mushrooms on each bird, strain the sauce through a fine sieve over them, and serve. Braised Fowls with Rice.—Draw a Fowl and break the breast-bone with a knife. Fry a chopped onion in a saucepan, with a little chopped fat bacon, add 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, cover it with gravy, and boil till the rice is dry ; then take the stewpan from the fire, and add a little finely-chopped raw ham and 1 pinch of pounded pimento. Stuff the Fowl with this preparation, and truss it as for boiling. Put Goz. of butter in a stewpan, then put in the Fowl, cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, put the lid on the pan with some red-hot cinders on the top, and stand it over a moderate fire. When the Fowl has browned all over, add J pint of white wine and a small piece of glaze, put the lid on again, with some more live embers, and finish cooking. Fry some ham (cut in small pieces) and tomatoes, adding pepper, salt, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; drain off the fat, put the ham and tomatoes in the stewpan with the Fowl, and leave them for ten minutes. Then dish the Fowl (having taken off the strings), arrange the bacon, ham, and tomatoes round the dish, and serve. Broiled Fowls.—(1) Clean a Fowl, singe it, split it down the back, break the joints, take out the breast-bone, and wipe the bird clean; dust a little pepper and salt over it, rub with For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, warmed butter, put on a gridiron over a good clear fire, and broil for twenty minutes or so. Place it on a dish, with some more butter over it, and serve quite hot. To carve this, separate the legs and wings from the body, and then the breast from the lower parts. (2) Draw and singe two young birds, split them down the back, remove all the bones except the stump-bone of the wings, and cut up the pinions and leg-bones. Take out the flesh from the legs, taking care not to injure or cut the skin, and trim away the sinew ; chop the flesh up very small, with half its quantity of bacon and also of raw ham, both finely minced, add a little pepper, spices, and salt to season, also a few breadcrumbs, and half an egg, and mix well. Place the chickens flat on a board, pepper and salt slightly, and put half the mince on each, making the surface smooth; next put them into butter warmed and mixed with the yolks of four eggs, and then breadcrumb them over. Place them on a gridiron over a good fire, basting them frequently, and when they are done, which will be in about twenty minutes, dish them up with thick gravy and a little tarragon put about the dish. (3) Prepare a couple of chickens, cut off the claws at the first joint, push them under the skin, which has been pre- viously cut so as to get the bone inside ; singe the birds, cut them in halves down the back, and put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter. Let the butter cool on them on both sides, and then put them on a baking-sheet to drain; dust over a little cayenne and salt, smooth over them a little made mustard, and pour over sufficient of the butter from the saucepan to moisten them, lastly rolling them in finely- sifted breadcrumbs. Place them on a gridiron, "with the skin part uppermost, broil very slowly over a moderate fire, basting- frequently with a brush dipped in the butter in the saucepan ; turn them, and when they have been cooking for a quarter-of-an-liour put them on a dish, with a little gravy on the bottom, and serve with sauce a la minute separately in a sauceboat. (4) Singe and draw two chickens, make holes in the legs above the joints, and push the claws into them ; cut the birds in halves, break the leg-bones, and remove the bones from the back and breast, so that there will be as few bones left as possible. Press the Fowls into a round shape, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and brush over with yolks of eggs; cover them with breadcrumbs, dip them in liquefied butter, and dust with the crumbs again, taking care to have them well covered. Put them on a board to make them flat, and then broil on a gridiron over a good clear fire, care being taken that the legs, which take the longest time to cook, are quite done. Place them on a dish, and serve with a little Italian sauce poured over. (5) Pluck and draw the Fowls, split them lengthwise in halves, bone them, and cut the flesh into three or four pieces, beat the thickest parts with a rolling-pin, to make all of an equal thickness, season with powdered cinnamon, salt, and pepper, and leave for an hour or two. Put the pieces on a gridiron over a moderate charcoal fire, and turn them constantly till evenly browned; then lay them in a saucepan, cover with clear chicken broth, that can be made with the bones, and boil them gently over a moderate fire till tender. When cooked, put the Fowls on a hot dish, and serve. (6) Pluck and singe a chicken and wipe it with a wet towel; split it down the back, dress it without breaking the entrails, and break the joints of the wings and legs. Put it between the bars of a buttered double-gridiron, and broil it quite brown, but not too close to the fire, cooking the inside thoroughly before turning, and taking care that it is quite done at the joints. Season it with salt and pepper, lay it on buttered toast, put 1 table-spoonful of butter over it, and serve hot. (7) Cut out the breast- and thigh-bones of a plucked and drawn Fowl, rub the meat well over with olive oil or butter, sprinkle with cracker or breadcrumbs, and with a little salt and pepper to season, broil over a clear fire for ten minutes or so. Serve hot. Broiled Fowls with Bacon.—Singe and draw two chickens, wipe them, and cut off their heads, then split them length- wise without separating. Place them on a dish, season with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil, turn them well in the seasoning, and broil for nine minutes on each 3 b 2 Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads.612 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. side. Prepare six small toasts on a hot dish, arrange the chickens over, spread | gill of maitre-d’hotel butter on top, and decorate with six thin slices of boiled bacon. They are then ready to be served. Broiled Fowl Cutlets.—Cut off the larger fillets of four Fowls, without injuring the small fillets, cut the merrythoughts in halves, take off the small fillets, remove the skin, and make them into the shape of hearts, sticking the merry- thoughts into the ends or points, so as to make them look like cutlets. Sprinkle them with plenty of salt and pepper, brush them on both sides with egg, and cover with bread- crumbs ; next dip them into melted butter, then into crumbs again, smooth them over with a knife, and broil over a g-ood fire until of a light brown. Pour some Spanish sauce on a dish, put the cutlets on it, and serve. They may, if pre- ferred, be fried in butter. Broiled Fowl with Tarragon.—Clean a couple of young birds, truss them with their legs in, and put them into the stockpot for five or six minutes to let the flesh set. Take them out, drain them, and cut them lengthwise in halves down the back. Eemove the backbone from each half, dust them over with salt and pepper, and roll them into well-clarified butter, then dip them into breadcrumbs, and place them on a gridiron over a good fire to broil for twenty minutes, turning them occasionally. When done, put them on a dish with a little good gravy and tarragon mixed with it poured over the bottom, and serve very hot. Broiled Legs of Fowls.—Take the legs of some cold Fowls, remove the skin, cut the flesh on both sides of the bone, and spread over them a preparation made of teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, a little cayenne, Joz. of warmed butter, and 1 saltspoonful of essence of anchovies, all well mixed. When this is rubbed into the meat, especially in the cuts, place them over a rather slow fire on a gridiron, and broil them for about ten minutes, turning them occasionally. They are then ready to be served. A little cooked bacon should be served with them. The anchovy mixture may be dispensed with by putting the legs in melted butter, and then dusting them over with salt and pepper before cooking. Capilotade of Fowl.—(1) Cut any remains of cold roasted Fowls into pieces ; put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir over the fire until well mixed ; then put in a few chopped herbs and some mushrooms that have been scalded and cut up into small pieces, and fry them; when browned, pour over § pint of white wine and an equal quantity of broth, and boil them gently for twenty minutes. Put the pieces of Fowl into the sauce and stew them gently for about fifteen minutes. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Cut a cold roasted Fowl into small pieces, trimming them neatly. Peel and chop three or four shallots, and chop a few mushrooms and a small bunch of parsley. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; then put in the mushrooms, shallots, and parsley; pour in 1 pint of stock and an equal quantity of red wine, and boil them until the liquor has reduced one- third. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, put in the pieces of Fowl, and stew them gently until hot through, which will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. When ready, put the Fowl on to a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Chartreuse of Fowl.—To fib. of cold cooked chicken-meat add 2oz. of cooked lean ham (or the meat of two sausages), and chop all very fine ; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of finely- sifted breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of capers or chopped parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice or vinegar, two well- beaten eggs, a little cayenne, and sufficient stock to make it quite moist, also a seasoning of salt and pepper. Butter a mould inside, pack the meat in very closely, leaving about fin. from the the top to allow for it to swell; place the mould on a trivet in a saucepan of water and steam it for one hour. Let it remain in the mould to cool, and when wanted, turn it out on to a dish, by dipping the mould into warm water and easing the sides with a knife. Garnish with mushrooms and other vegetables, and serve. Chartreuse of Fowl with Macaroni.—Singe, draw, and boil till tender a Fowl weighing about 51b. When done, Fowls—continued. take off all the skin and fat, and cut the meat in thin pieces. Soak 2 table-spoonfuls of gelatine for two hours in 1 teacup- ful of cold water; then strain it, and dissolve it in pint of the boiling broth in which the Fowl was boiled, add i pint of cream, and season with pepper and salt. Boil 14oz. of macaroni in sufficient water to cover it, drain off the water, put the macaroni on the table, let it cool, and cut into pieces a little over fin. long. Butter very thickly a 2qt. oval charlotte-russe mould, and stick the macaroni all over the inside; put the Fowl-meat in lightly and evenly, and add the sauce very gradually. Stand the mould in a large sauce- pan, pour boiling water round, taking care it does not reach to the top of the mould, and steam for one hour. Take the mould out, put a dish on the top, with a quick movement of the hands reverse the positions, turn out, and serve. Chaudfroid of Fowl.—(1) Divide three roasted Fowls (rather underdone) each in five pieces, two wings, two legs, and one breast piece; remove the skin and some of the bones. Put i pint of yellow sauce in a saucepan, warm it, and warm also half the quantity of aspic jelly ; stand the pan on ice, and stir with a spatula till the sauce thickens ; then take the pan off, dip the pieces of Fowl one by one in the sauce, and arrange Fig. 770. Chaudfroid of Fowl. them on a baking-sheet. Dip some slices of truffles in the sauce, with these decorate the sides of a plain border-mould, fill the mould gradually with sauce, surround it with ice, and let it set. Wipe round the mould, turn the jelly out on a dish, and fill the hollow of the border with a wooden support, having previously covered it with white paper; trim the pieces of Fowl, mask them with a layer of jelly, dish them on the support, and serve. See Fig. 770. (2) Prepare and truss three Fowls as for roasting, cover them with buttered paper, and roast, without browning them; when cold, cut them up, take off the skin, mask each piece with chaudfroid sauce, and let them cool. Make a border of aspic jelly in a border-mould, putting a piece of decorated fillet in each flute of the mould; when the jelly is set, turn the border out on a dish. Fry in butter a piece of bread 3in. high and lfin. in diameter; when pale brown, drain it, and put it in the middle of the dish on which the jelly border is set; dip the pieces of fowl in some more sauce; stand the legs round the bottom of the bread, put the three right-hand wings on the legs, place the other three wings round, then the three pieces of breast; ornament the top with a large cock’s comb and truffle stuck on a silver skewer, and serve. (3) Skin two chickens, and cut them into small pieces as if carved for serving; wash these, put them in a stewpan with enough white stock to cover them, one large onion, one clove, half a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, and \ table- spoonful of salt. Let this boil; then skim it carefully and set it back where it will simmer for an hour. Take out the chicken, and set the stewpan where the stock will boil rapidly so as to reduce it. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying- pan, and when it melts stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook until smooth, but not brown. Stir this into the stock, of which there must be not more than a pint, add 4 table- spoonfuls of glaze, and boil up at once. Taste to see if it is seasoned enough; if it is not, add more salt and pepper. Now add i breakfast-cupful of cream, and boil up once more. Place the chicken in a deep dish, pour the sauce on it, and set away to cool. When about to serve, have large slices of cold boiled potatoes, fried brown in butter, arranged on a warm dish; on them place the chicken, which must be very cold; on each piece of the meat put a small teaspoonful of Tartar sauce, heap the potatoes round the edge of the dish, garnish with parsley, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 613 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Chicken Country Captain.—Cut up a fat chicken into small pieces, and remove all the bone. Put an onion, cut up into very fine slices, into a frying-pan with Jib. of butter, and fry until it is a light brown. Take the onion out, put it on a baking-sheet, and place it in the oven to get crisp. Put a salt- spoonful each of finely-ground turmeric, coriander-seeds, and green chillies into the frying-pan in which the onion liquor has been left, add a little salt, and warm up for a minute or two; then put in the pieces of chicken and three more onions finely sliced, place the pan on the fire again, and stir constantly until the chicken-meat is quite tender. Place it on a dish, garnish with the crisp onions, and serve. Chicken Custard.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of chicken stock and cream into a saucepan, and boil; then pour them over the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, put them into the bain-marie, add a little salt, and cook until the mixture thickens a little. Let it get cold, put it into custard cups, and serve. Chicken-and-Ham Sausages.— Cut off all the meat of a cooked Fowl, mix it with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and put it in a basin. Take 8oz. of lean ham, scrape it, and put it into the chicken-meat, with thyme, pounded mace, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Work these well together, and make them into a thick paste with the yolk of an egg and a little milk. Form the mass into shapes like sausages, fry them in butter until they are quite brown, and serve. Chicken Olives.—Cut the legs of a cold cooked chicken in halves, dividing them at the joint, and chop off the drumsticks. Take four very thin rashers of bacon, sprinkle them with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs mixed with 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, an onion chopped very fine, and some mixed herbs; lay a joint of the chicken in each, roll it up in it, fasten it securely, and fry them. Serve hot on pieces of fried bread. Chicken Ragofft.—This dish is greatly used by Italian gourmets, and, in fact, luncheons are not considered complete without it. Cut off the pinions from half-a-dozen fat pullets, singe them, and remove half the bone, pressing the flesh into the hollow or cavity of the bone. Put them into a saucepan, with a little butter and finely-chopped onion, set the pan on the fire, and fry them a light colour ; then sprinkle them over with a pinch of flour, and pour in sufficient white wine and highly- coloured gravy to moisten them. Boil until they are all done, add twelve small lamb’s sweetbreads, scalded and trimmed, two or three amourettes of veal, blanched and cut into pieces, one- and-a-half-dozen cooked white cocks’ combs, and lastly 2 or 3 teacupfuls of green peas. Let them cook gently, and a few minutes before serving add eighteen or twenty blanched cocks’ kernels. Turn the preparation out on to a dish, place croutons of puff paste round it, and serve. Chingara Fowl.—Singe and clean a Fowl, selecting one as white-fleshed as possible, divide it into four equal parts, and trim them; cut some thin slices of ham, put them in a buttered stewpan, then put in the four quarters of Fowl; stand the stewpan over red-hot ashes, and cook the Fowl gently. When cooked, drain off the fat, dust a small quantity of pepper and salt over the Fowl, and arrange it on a hot dish, with the ham and four slices of fried bread. Stir some Spanish sauce in with the glaze in the stewpan; when hot, pour it into a gravy dish, and serve with the Fowl. Cold Fowl Rechauffe with Rice Cream.—Cut the meat from the breasts of two or three cold boiled chickens, trim off the skin, chop the meat, put it into a mortar, and pound it. Pour 5 pints of milk into a saucepan, and set it on the fire until boiling. Put a little less than Jib. of ground rice into a basin, and stir in gradually sufficient milk and water to make a smooth batter; mix this in with the boiling milk, and stir it over the fire until smooth, but not too thick. Put the pounded chicken-flesh and Jib. of caster sugar in with the rice, flavour with a few drops of rose-water, stir it over the fire until thick and _ gummy, then stir it for a few minutes off the fire. Rub the interior of a dome-shaped mould with almond oil, turn the mixture into it, and set it in a cool place or on ice for two or three hours. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the cream at the sides, wipe it with a cloth, turn it quickly over on to a dish, and dust it over with a small F owls—con tinned. quantity of powdered cinnamon. To prevent the chicken smelling’ too strong in the rice, it would be as well to rinse it in cold water before pounding it. Creased Fowl.—Pluck and clean two chickens, split them, remove all the bones, and cut the flesh into small pieces, but without separating one piece from another; rub them well with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and then with raw onion juice, and leave them for a few hours, so that they may become well incorporated with the flavourings. Pass some iron skewers through the pieces of meat, place them in front of a clear but moderate fire, and turn them continually till cooked. When the meat begins to brown, baste it with warmed butter. When cooked, put the chicken on a hot dish, and serve quickly. The onion juice greatly improves the flavour, and will not be found offensive, as the smell disperses in cooking. Croustades of Fowls.—(1) Remove the skin from a roasted Fowl, cut the flesh up into small squares, dust them over with salt and pepper, put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of gravy, and simmer gently for five or six minutes. Have ready some fried bread croustades, fill them with the mixture, put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The croustades are formed out of halves of French rolls. The crumb is scooped out of the crusts, and the latter are fried, and then what little crumb remains is taken out. (2) Fry six bread croustades, each one 4|in. long by 3in. in diameter. Take fib. of white, cooked chicken meat, without bones, cut it into Jin. pieces, add to them J pint of d’Uxelles sauce and J wineglassful of Madeira wine, and cook for four minutes. Fill the croustades with this, arrange them on a hot dish over a folded napkin, and serve. Curried Fowl.—(1) Select a couple of Fowls of medium size, and cut each of them into five parts, not counting the body- bones and pinions. Put a little butter into a flat saucepan, and put the legs, pinions, and body-bones into it; place the pan on the fire, turn the legs, &c., frequently, and when they are of a light brown and only half-cooked add the fillets and pieces cut off the breast; sprinkle them over with salt, and cook them until they are all quite done. Take the pieces of meat out of the pan, put them into another pan, and keep them covered over and quite warm. Put three or four finely- minced onions in the saucepan with the bones, stir them constantly, and let them fry, but only to a light golden colour ; add next 8oz. of streaky bacon, cut into thin slices and then again into small squares. When the bacon is slightly cooked, add 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, lightly dusted in and mixed with a very little flour, place the pan again on the fire, and boil for two or three minutes ; take out the bones, then add a wineglassful each of rich gravy and white wine, and boil for five minutes longer, stirring continually; next put in the pieces of chicken, and remove the pan to the side of the fire so that the meat will be thoroughly warmed without boiling the liqour again. Place the meat on a dish, add the juice of a lemon to the liquor, mix well, and pour it over. Serve with a dishful of boiled rice. (2) Cut up a chicken at the joints, remove the breast- bone, wipe the flesh dry with a cloth, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and flour, and put it into a frying-pan with a little boiling butter, and fry it to a light brown ; then put it into a saucepan. Cut a large onion into thin slices, and fry in the butter in which the meat was cooked, but it must not be coloured; add this to the other ingredients in the saucepan. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of curry powder into the frying- pan with the butter, and place it on the fire; when the flour is brown, add J pint of stock or water and a sour apple finely chopped, or J pint of chopped-up tomatoes without the seeds, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce into the saucepan containing the chicken, place it at the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour or so until tender; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling cream or milk, boil for another minute, and turn it out on to a dish with a border of rice round the edge. (3) Cut up a Fowl into pieces, wash them well, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and add a couple of onions cut up small; place the pan over a clear fire, and fry until they are all of a light-brown colour; then add J pint of broth, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of614 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cC:c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. curry powder in a basin with 1 teaspoonful each of flour and | salt, and add sufficient water to make it into a smooth paste ; put this into the saucepan, mix it well, and toss the pan oyer the fire until it boils; then remove it to the side of the fire, and simmer twenty minutes longer. Take out the meat, rub it through a sieve, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream | (or milk), boil it up once more, pour it on to a dish, and serve with a border of boiled rice. (4) Cut a large Fowl into eight pieces, cutting the back i in halves, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and | 1 table-spoonful of curry powder. Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a little butter, and fry it to a light-brown colour; put the pieces of Fowl in the pan with it, and fry them also; then pour in broth to half the height of the | meat, place the lid on the pan, and boil quickly over a good fire to reduce it; add a little more broth, and reduce again to a glaze, continuing to do this until the bird is quite tender and thoroughly cooked. Lastly, add 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of shredded cocoa-nut and a few table-spoonfuls of the cocoa-nut liquor, and keep this simmering on the side of the fire ; then add a little thick cream and the juice of three lemons. Put the meat on a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with a border of well-boiled rice cooked as follows, in the Indian way : Put lOoz. of washed rice into a saucepan of boiling water, and as soon as it begins to boil add a little cold water to stop it; when it begins to boil again cover the pan over very closely, and put it on the side of the fire to simmer slowly. After it has remained like this for twenty minutes, pour it out on to a sieve or strainer, spread it well over, stir it so that it will drain quickly, put it round the dish, and serve. (5) Fry some small thin slices of flesh of Fowl in butter until slightly browned, then dust them over with 1 table- spoonful of curry powder and a small quantity of cayenne, and put them in a stewpan. Peel and finely chop four small onions, put them into the frying-pan in which the meat was fried, adding more butter if necessary, and toss them about over the fire until beginning to brown. Drain off the butter from the onions, put them in with the meat, pour in a pint each of water and milk, season with a small quantity of salt, put the lid on the stewpan, stand it by the side of the fire, and stew gently, When the meat is quite tender, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and stir well; then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (6) Indian Style.—Put 2oz. of fat or butter into a sauce- pan and warm it; as soon as it begins to boil, add 1 table- spoonful of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, half that quantity of ground ginger, and I teaspoonful of ground garlic. Half a teaspoonful of ground coriander-seeds may be added if the taste is not objected to, but it must be well washed before it is ground. Stir well over the fire until the ingredients are brown, add a chicken cut up into sixteen or eighteen pieces and freed from bone, and 1^ teaspoonfuls of salt, and continue to cook until the chicken meat is slightly coloured; then pour in 1 pint of water and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the chicken-meat is quite tender and the liquor reduced to half its original quantity, which will require from half to three- quarters-of-an-hour. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. Boiled rice should invariably accompany this. (7) Singe and draw a chicken weighing about 31b., and cut the flesh into square pieces; put these in cold water for five minutes, wash them well, drain, and put them in a saucepan, filling' it up to the surface with hot water; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Add a bouquet garni and six small onions, and cook on a moderate stove for forty-five minutes, skimming it well. Take another saucepan, place in it la* gills of white roux, moisten it with all of the broth from the chicken, and mix well together. Prepare 1 table- spoonful of diluted curry with the yolks of four eggs and the juice of half a lemon, beat all well together, and pour it into the sauce a little at a time, stirring continually, and not allowing it to boil. Pour the sauce over the chicken, which remains in the saucepan, dress immediately on a hot dish garnished with boiled rice, and serve. (8) Madras Style.—Peel and slice two moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until browned; then dredge them with 1 table- Fowls—continued. spoonful of curry powder, and mix it in well. Cut a cooked Fowl into rather small pieces, and put them in with the onions. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour quite smooth with | breakfast-cupful of milk, pour it over the meat, and add 1 table-spoonful of mango sauce, with salt to taste. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a small lime, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried to a golden brown in butter, and serve very hot with a dish of plain-boiled rice. (9) Malay Style.—Put 3oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, put in twelve large onions cut lengthwise in slices, and fry them until they are brown; then put them on one side, or take them out of the pan, put in 4 tea- spoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, % teaspoonful of ground ginger, and i teaspoonful of ground garlic, and fry until brown; then put in the flesh of a young chicken without any bones, sprinkle over lj teaspoonfuls of salt, and fry until brown also; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cocoa-nut milk, cover over the pan, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about an hour. Turn the curry out on to a dish, sprinkle over the fried onions, after chopping them up, and serve very hot. Curried Fowl a la Creole.—Prepared and cooked the same as for Curried Fowl (No. 7), adding one green pepper cut very fine, one chopped onion, and half a clove of garlic, and cooking them for twenty minutes with the chicken. Curried Fowl a l’Espagnole.—This is prepared the same as for Curried Fowl (No. 7), adding two tomatoes cut up and one green pepper, and cooking them for ten minutes with the chicken. Curried Fowl Forcemeat Balls.—Cut off all the meat from a young Fowl, put it into a mortar together with 4oz. of beef-suet, and pound them well. With the bones prepare a small quantity of rich gravy. Warm 4oz. of fat in a frying- pan, put in 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, j table-spoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, i table-spoonful each of ground peppercorns and green ginger, and i teaspoonful of ground garlic, and brown them, sprinkling over 1 table- spoonful of water. Mix 1 teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and chopped sweet herbs with the pounded meat together with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, form the whole into a mass by adding a well-beaten egg and some of the prepared gravy, make this into balls, roll these in bread- crumbs, put them into the frying-pan with the curry mixture, sprinkle over a little salt, and fry them until they are brown ; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of chicken-broth or water, cover over the pan, and simmer gently for about two hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. Should a very fat chicken be used, the beef-suet may be dispensed with. Cutlets of Fowls in Aspic.—Cut off the fillets from two Fowls, contise the minion or smaller fillets with truffles, put them all into a saute-pan with a little butter, cover them with paper, place a tin with a weight on it on top of them to keep them flat, set the pan in the oven, and cook without allowing them to take colour. Take them out, let them get quite cold, cut each large fillet first crosswise in halves and then lengthwise, and trim them in the shape of cutlets. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, warm it, and dissolve in it 1 teacupful of aspic jelly and a little chicken glaze ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, stir them all well together, pour the mixture into a sieve over a basin packed in ice, stir it well until it thickens, and mask all the cutlets with it before it is quite cold. Decorate the cutlets with various designs stamped out in cooked truffles and tongue, and trim the minion fillets. Pour a little of the jelly at the bottom of a mould packed in ice, arrange the minion fillets on it, cover over with a little more of the jelly, then place the cutlet-shaped pieces round the sides of the mould with the plain side inwards, and let them set; then fill the mould up with the remainder of the jelly. Turn the jelly out on to a dish when set and firm, and serve with a garnish of small pieces of coloured aspic inter- mixed with finely-chopped lettuce-leaves. Cutlets of Fowl Forcemeat with Salad.—Cut off all the white flesh from a boiled Fowl, chop it, and put it into a615 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, sec under tlicir special heads. Fowls—continued. saucepan with half its bulk each of chopped pickled ox-tongue and uncooked truffles. Place the pan on the fire, and stir in a few chopped mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of uncooked quenelle forcemeat, and 2 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce. When sufficiently thick, divide the mixture into fourteen equal parts, roll them on a floured board or table, put them into cutlet-moulds to shape them, turn them out, take each one up separately, dip it into beaten egg and then in seasoned breadcrumbs, smooth it over with a knife, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling butter, and brown it slightly ; then take it out, drain it, 'and let it get cold. Proceed in this way with the remainder. Put a salad of lettuce and endive in the centre of a dish piled up as high as possible, lean the cutlets against it overlapping one another (see Fig. 771), and serve. Devilled Fowl.—Make a mixture of cayenne, salt, mustard, grated lemon-peel, lemon-juice, port wine, and Harvey’s sauce, or any other sauce except anchovy. Cut off some slices of cooked Fowl, butter them, lay them in the mixture, and let them soak for some time. Put sauce and all into a saucepan over the fire, do not let it quite boil, but serve it very hot. Devilled Fowl’s Legs.—Cut off the legs from three Fowls, singe them slightly with a little alcohol lighted on a plate, put them into the stock-pot, and boil for ten minutes. Remove them to a dish, cool them thoroughly, season with salt, pepper, and a very little cayenne, also 2 table-spoonfuls of French or Worcestershire sauce, and i teaspoonful of ground mustard. Now roll them well together, pass one after another into sifted breadcrumbs, and broil them on a moderate fire for four minutes on each side; then arrange them on a hot dish, pour over 1 gill of hot devil sauce (a la Diable), sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the top, and serve very hot. Epigrammes of Fillets of Fowls.—Cut off the fillets from three Fowls, trim them, put them in a saute-pan with clarified butter-, give them a curve in the pan, pour more butter over, place a sheet of buttered paper over all, set the pan in the oven or over a fire, and cook until the flesh is done. Cut off the legs, bone them, put them in a saucepan with a little mire- I poix, braise, take them out when done, and press between two dishes until cold ; now dip them into warm reduced German sauce, next in breadcrumbs, then in egg and breadcrumbs again. Stick a piece of bone in the thin end of each, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry. Have ready a hollow croustade of bread, placed in the centre of a dish, arrange the fillets round alter- nately with the legs, fill the croustade with mushroom or other puree, and serve with German sauce in a tureen. Essence of Fowl.— (1) Put the bones of five or six chickens into a saucepan with about 21b. of fillet of veal cut into rather large pieces, add a bunch of sweet herbs, one carrot, two onions with one or two cloves stuck in each, and 3qts. of chicken broth. When the liquor boils, move it to the side of the fire, skim well, and simmer till the meat is tender. When cooked, strain the essence through a broth napkin into a jar, and when cooled skim off all the fat, and put it by for use. (2) Strain lqt. of chicken broth through a cloth into a saucepan, and then reduce it until there remains only | pint. Use when needed. Fowls—continued. Farces of Fowl.—See Fowl Forcemeat. Fillets of Fowl a la Cliingara.—Cut the fillets of two or three Fowls and some slices of boiled ham into pieces about the size of a half-crown, put them into a saute-pan with clarified butter, and fry them over a slow fire. When cooked, drain the fillets, glaze the ham, and arrange all on a hot dish. Drain the butter out of the saute-pan, pour in J tea- cupful of Spanish sauce and 1 table-spoonful of stock; add 2oz. of fresh butter, the strained juice of a lemon, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire till hot, then pour it over the fillets of Fowl, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Perigortl.—Cut off the fillets of two cold braised Fowls, and divide each into halves. Put 2oz. of goose’s fat liver in a mortar, pound it, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Finely chop an onion, put it in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, pass it over the fire for a few minutes, and then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce that has been boiled till thickly reduced. When on the point of boiling-, put in the pounded fat liver, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Leave the sauce till cold. Coat the fillets with the cold sauce, dip them into well-beaten eggs, then roll them in breadcrumbs, then beat them lightly with a knife, and repeat the operation. Plunge the fillets into a stewpan half-full of boiling lard, and fry them till browned ; then drain them, arrange them on a border of mashed potatoes, garnish the centre with fried watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Fillets of Fowl a la Princesse.—Cut off the fillets from five Fowls, pare them, and flatten them a little with a knife- handle. Shape their largest sides a good round, pare them to a point, to resemble cutlets, sprinkle them with salt, and cover them over with a cloth. Put 5oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, let it settle, and pass it through a strainer. With the flesh from the legs make some highly-flavoured force- meat, put it into a well-buttered plain border-mould, and place it in the bain-marie to poach. In the meantime, boil a pickled ox-tongue in salted water, and keep it hot; peel fifteen small raw truffles, and keep them covered over until wanted. Next prepare some stock with the bones of the birds, vegetables, sweet herbs, white wine, and broth. When cooked, strain it, add the truffle trimmings, and reduce it to half-glaze ; add Fig. 772. Fillets of Fowl a la Princesse. its equal bulk of brown sauce, and boil for a few minutes; then pass it through a cloth into another smaller saucepan, put in the raw truffles, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sherry to it, and boil again very slowly for about eight or nine minutes. Now pour the clarified butter into a flat saucepan, put the fillets in close to each other, place the pan on the fire, and cook them on both sides for about two minutes, then take them out and drain them well. Take out the tongue, drain it, skin it, and cut it up in a slanting direction into as many slices as there are fillets, shaping them like the fillets. Now turn the border out on to a dish, and place the fillets and slices of tongue, glazed with a paste-brush, alter- nately round it, with the truffles put in the centre. Pour a little of the sauce over the truffles, and serve the remainder in a boat. See Fig. 772. Fillets of Fowl a la Villeroi.—Take the fillets from six Fowls, trim them, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put them in a frying-pan with a little butter to cook, taking care to let them be rather underdone. Place them on a board with another one on the top, and a slight weight on that; afterwards cut them into shapes. Take them one at a616 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. time, clip them into hot chaudfroid sauce, and put them on a baking-sheet at a little distance from one another. Let them get quite cool, remove the superfluous sauce, cover them first with breadcrumbs, then dip them into egg, and then crumbs again. Put a few of them at a time into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and as soon as they are of a fine colour take them out, and put them in a circle on a folded napkin on a dish, placing a little parsley, slightly fried, in the centre. Fillets of Fowl with Asparagus. — Select two fat birds, and cut them up so that the breast and breast-bone will be one piece, and the back and legs another. Put the back parts into a saucepan with lgall. of water, and when it boils add the breasts; when these have boiled for an hour or so, and are quite tender, take them out, and let them cool. Put a few vegetables in the liquor, and boil fast until it is reduced to one-half its original bulk ; then strain it through a cloth into another saucepan, and add 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour, previously worked together in a pan over the fire, to thicken it, and put the pan on the side of the fire where its contents will simmer gently. Skim frequently, and when the liquor is reduced to lqt. or so, pour in a little mushroom liquor, made by boiling button-mushrooms in stock. Reduce again, and when it is less than lqt. and getting thick, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, a little lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne. In the meantime, have 1 breakfast-cupful of cream boiling, add it to the liquor in the other pan, a little at a time, to make it of the required consistence, and then pass all through a strainer. Cut the meat away from the breast-bones and trim it into shape, plunge the pieces into boiling chicken broth to get thoroughly warmed through, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Cut some asparagus- heads from the stalks, boil them like peas in salted water, take them out, drain them, shake them in a pan with melted butter, and put them on the dish with the fillets. Fillets of Fowl with Aspic Jelly.—Take half-a-dozen good fillets of Fowls, cut off the minion fillets and the thin skin of the larger fillets, cut these to equal shapes, and put into a saute-pan with a little butter, giving them a slightly curved inclination when in the pan, pour over a little more butter, cover them with paper, and cook them until quite done. Take the minion fillets, trim them, and contise them with a few small pieces of ox-tongue; put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them, giving them likewise a curved shape in the pan. In the meantime, put a circular rice socle on a dish, mask it with Montpelier butter, and again on its centre place a smaller socle 2in. in diameter and 3J-in. in height, and mask this again with Montpelier butter. Take the fillets out of the pan when done, place them on a strainer to drain, and put them when they are perfectly cold into hot chicken chaudfroid sauce, and then when they are cold put them on the dish on the larger rice socle, leaning against the smaller one, with a truffle, cut tjin. thick and of the size of the end of the fillets, placed between them. Garnish the top of the socle with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Fillets of Fowl with Green Peas.—Cut off the fillets from three Fowls, trim them, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and dip them first into egg and then breadcrumbs. Arrange them in a saucepan with a little melted butter, put the Fig. 773. Fillets of Fowl and Green Peas. pan on the fire, and cook them till they are of a light-brown colour, but are still underdone. Turn them, so that both sides will be cooked a little. Take them out, and place them on a dish, leaning against a pile of green peas (see Fig. 773) Fowls—continued. that have been previously boiled of a good green colour, and tossed in the pan with a small piece of clarified butter. Serve hot. Fillets of Fowl as cooked in Java.—Soften five or six edible birds’ nests in cold water, clean them thoroughly, and put them into chicken broth to poach. In the meantime cut off as many fillets from a good Fowl as are required, dust them over on both sides with a little salt and curry-powder, put them in a saute-pan with butter, and cook them. Take them out, let them drain, pare them, dip them in veloute sauce, sprinkle cayenne over them, and return them to the pan to be warmed again. Take out the nests, drain them, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, put them into the saute- pan, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and warm them. Put the fillets on a dish, in a circle, over a thin layer of cooked forcemeat, and place the nests in the centre of the circle. Pour a little veloute sauce over the fillets, and serve with more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Fillets of Fowl with Mushroom Puree.—Prepare and roast three Fowls, keeping them a little underdone, remove them from the spit, let them get cold, and then cut off the fillets from the backs, the legs, and the breasts, trimming them and taking off all the skin. Put 3 teacupfuls of yellow sauce into a pan with 1|- teacupfuls of aspic jelly, both slightly warmed, place the pan on the ice, and stir until moderately Fig. 774. Fillets of Fowl with Mushroom Puree. thick; then remove the pan from the ice, dip the pieces of Fowl singly in the sauce, covering them entirely, and arrange them side by side on a baking-sheet. Fill a border mould with cooked rice, let it set, turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre with a puree of mushroom, heaping it up, arrange the fillets round on top of the border (see Fig. 774), and serve. Fillets of Fowl with Quenelles.—Cut off the fillets of two young Fowls, and detach the small fillets from the large ones; beat one of the small ones flat, then lay another on the top of it, thus making two large fillets of four small ones; pare the skin off the large fillets; put 2oz. of butter in a deep frying-pan and melt it, then put in the fillets, dust them over with salt and pepper, and squeeze lemon-juice over them. Cut the meat off the legs of the birds, chop and pound it well, then pass it through a fine hair sieve; pound half the quantity of panada with loz. of scraped fat bacon and 2oz. of butter, put the meat in again, and pound all well together; then season the mixture, and mix in four eggs, one at a time. Mould the forcemeat into six flat quenelles, using two table-spoons for the purpose, put them in a stewpan with sufficient boiling stock to cover them, and poach them. Fry the fillets over a moderate fire, turning them when cooked on one side, and finishing the other. They should be kept very white, and not overdone, while, as the smaller fillets will be done before the large ones, they must be taken out and kept warm. Arrange the fillets and quenelles alternately on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour a thin puree of cucumbers in the centre, and serve. Fillets of Fowl Sautes.—Cut off nine fillets of Fowls, pound them lightly with a vegetable masher, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover them well with flour. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter for each fillet into a frying-pan; when it is quite hot put in the fillets and fry them for twenty minutes, turning them so that both sides will be browned. Take them out and put them in front of the fire to keep warm. To every 6 table-spoonfuls of butter used, add two more to the pan, and when it is melted mix in 1 table-617 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. spoonful of flour; as soon as this begins to brown, add gradually li breakfast-cupfuls of cold milk, stirring con- tinually ; boil for a minute, and add salt, pepper, and a little mustard. Put a pile of mashed potatoes or green peas in the centre of a dish, place the fillets against it, and serve with the sauce poured round. Fillets of Fowl Sautes a la Royale.—Cut off the fillets of two Fowls, which will be four large ones and four little ones, called minion (or mignon) fillets, being the inside fillets, and flatten them a little with the handle of a knife dipped in water. Eemove the coarse upper skin, take out the sinews from the small fillets, and dip each one separately into butter; then sprinkle them over with salt, put them in a saute-pan, and fry them lightly. When done, take them out, drain them, and put them in a circle on a dish. Add a little cream and 1 table-spoonful or so of well-seasoned bechamel sauce to the butter in the pan, let it thicken over the fire for a while, and pour it over the fillets. Prepare a ragout of kidneys, mushrooms, quenelles, cocks’ combs, and truffles, put it in the centre of the dish, and serve. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, with Cucumber.—Trim and shape the fillets of two or three Fowls, season them with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, and lay them in a buttered saute- pan. Select two large cucumbers of an equal size, peel and cut each into 3-in. lengths, split the pieces into halves, scoop out the seeds, and shape them as nearly as possible like the fillets. Blanch them in boiling salted water, drain them well, put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of brown sugar, cover them with white stock, and boil till tender. Cook the fillets over a moderate fire, turning them when done on one side, and keeping them quite white. When cooked, arrange the fillets alternately with some of the pieces of cucumber on a hot dish. Form the remaining pieces of cucumber into a thin puree, turn it into the middle of the dish, and serve very hot. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, garnished with Mushrooms.— Season the fillets of three Fowls with pepper, salt, and lemon- juice, and put them in a buttered saute-pan. Wash and turn some mushrooms, put them in a deep frying-pan with a pat of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of water, a little salt and lemon- juice, and fry for three or four minutes over a moderate fire ; then put them into a stewpan with 1 pint of supreme sauce, and boil a few minutes. Skim the sauce, and mix | teacupful of thick cream and 1 teaspoonful of sugar with it. Fry the fillets, keeping them white, and when cooked, arrange them on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish; pour the sauce and mushrooms in the centre, and serve them. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, and served with Supreme Sauce.—Detach the fillets from three Fowls, and separate the small from the large ones; beat the small ones with a cutlet- bat dipped in water, to flatten them, lay them two together, thus making three large ones out of six small ones. Butter a deep frying-pan, lay the fillets in it, and season them with salt and pepper and a small quantity of lemon-juice. Put the bones and trimmings of the Fowls in a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, one onion, a clove, |oz. of butter, and 1 wineglassful of sherry; stir them about over the fire till the moisture is reduced to a glaze, then pour in lqt. of white broth, and boil slowly. Skim the sauce, pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil till reduced to one-third; then mix 1 pint of veloute sauce with it, and boil quickly over a brisk fire till thick and creamy ; then mix in 1 teacupful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and move it to the side of the fire. Fry the fillets over a moderate fire, turning them when cooked on one side, and keeping them very white. When cooked, drain the fillets, I put them on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, with Truffles and Aspic Jelly.— Cut the fillets from the breasts of ten chickens, and trim them carefully, but leave the small fillets attached to the large ones. The fillets should be large, thick ones. Eemove all sinews from the fillets, and beat them gently, making them round at one end and pointed the other. Melt some butter in a saute- pan, and leave it till cool; then put in the fillets and fry them over a brisk fire, turning them when cooked one side, and finishing the other. When cooked, drain the fillets, and put them between two plates with a weight on the top, till cold. Fowls—continued. When cold, trim the fillets again, and ornament each with a circle of black truffles. Cover a baking-sheet with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and when it is solid, lay the fillets on it, the decorated side upwards, leaving a short space between them. Fill up the spaces between the fillets with cold liquid jelly, and leave it till firm. Fix a pain-vert on an oval dish, cover the top with paper, and fix a support in the centre, the top of which should be ornamented with a garnished attelette. With a sharp-pointed knife cut a circular incision round the fillets; warm the underside of the baking dish slightly, then pass the blade of a knife between it and the jelly, and remove the fillets quickly. Place the fillets on the pain-vert, leaning them against the support; garnish the base of the pain-vert with small paper cases, each containing a small black truffle, and serve cold. Fillets of Fowl Sautes, with Truffle Sauce.— Cut the fillets off two Fowls, separate the small ones from the large ones, trim them, put them in a saute-pan with a pat of butter, and fry them slowly, keeping them quite white. Pour about | pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, with ^ pint of white stock, and boil till thickly reduced ; then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, add four or five sliced truffles, and boil up again ; then mix in teacupful of thick cream, and season with a small quantity of salt and sugar. When cooked, put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fowl a la Barbarie.—Cut up a large, fat Fowl into four portions, and stud the breast and legs with truffles. Cook them in a saut£-pan with butter, and serve very hot with Barbary sauce. Fowls en Coquilles.—Cut the fillets of some chickens into collops, put them into a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry them lightly. Cook an equal quantity of truffles in Madeira wine, and when done, cut them into pieces the same size as the chicken collops. Mix these together with some reduced German sauce. Finely grate- some breadcrumb, and fry them till brown in butter. Fill some shells with the chicken mixture, cover them with the fried breadcrumbs, and put them for a few minutes in a moderately warm oven. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fowl Bechamel Sauce.—Cut two onions in quarters, put them in a large stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry them for a few minutes. Cut about ljlb. or 21b. of fillet of veal into small pieces, and put them in with the onions, also two Fowls from which the fillets have been removed, seasoning them with salt and pepper; fry the meats for a few minutes, then dredge in fib. of flour, stir it over the fire, and pour in gradually 5qts. of stock, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and continue stirring till it boils. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and let the contents simmer for two hours. The fat should be skimmed off frequently. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and boil it quickly, adding 1 j pints of thick cream in three separate portions. When the sauce is reduced to such a consistency that it coats the spoon, strain it through a broth napkin into a basin, and stir it till quite cold. Fowl-and-Beef Pie. — Skin a good-sized Fowl, cut it into joints, wash it, and let it soak in cold water for an hour. Cut some slices of salted beef, and if it is very salt, soak it in cold water. Make some paste with lib. of butter, 21b. of flour, and water. Bub butter over the bottom of a small iron pot, put into it a layer of slices of the salted beef, and shake some pepper and chopped onion over it; then, having rolled out the paste, cut a piece the size of the bottom of the pot, and place it over the layer of salted beef; over this put the pieces of Fowl, season them with a little salt, pepper, and chopped onion, cover with more paste, pour in 3 pints of cold water, cover the pot closely, and stew for four hours. Be very careful not to let it burn. Serve in a pudding-dish. Fowl Broth..—(1) Chop a Fowl into pieces, put them into an earthenware pot with 2 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, 1 tea- spoonful of coriander-seeds, pour in 2qts. of water, and boil for three hours, skimming frequently; then add 1 handful or so of lettuce-leaves and borage, cover over the pot, remove it from the fire, let it stand for twenty minutes, strain through a cloth or fine sieve, and serve.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 618 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Pc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. (2) Cut up a Fowl, put it into a tinned saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice, pour oyer 2qts. of water, and set it to boil; skim well, add a few coriander-seeds and a small quantity of poppy grains, and boil slowly for a couple of hours; put in seven or eight crayfish, boil for twenty minutes longer, then add 1 handful of borage leaves, cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, let it stand for fifteen or twenty minutes, and pass the liquor through a fine sieve. It is then ready for use, and should be served warm but not boiling. (3) Pluck, draw, and clean a Fowl, separate it at the joints, and take away the skin and fat. Cover the Fowl with cold water, and add 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and one sliced onion ; simmer until the flesh is ready to drop off the bones. Take away the best part of the meat, put the bones and gristle back, and simmer until the bones are clean. Strain the broth, and remove the fat. Wash and soak 2 table-spoonfuls of rice for half-an-hour. Put the nicest portions of meat into the broth, add the rice, and simmer again until the rice is tender, adding season- ing to taste. Serve hot. (4) Put in a saucepan a Fowl cut into joints, and a beef or veal bone; add plenty of water to cover the meat, also two onions, two carrots, a sprig of parsley, and a little salt. When the broth boils, remove the scum, and simmer gently. An old Fowl, to yield all its goodness to the broth, will take five or six hours ; but a young one will accomplish the same object in less time. (5) Pluck, singe, and draw a chicken, cut it up into moderate-sized pieces, put them into a tin-lined saucepan, pour in lqt. of water, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil for ten minutes, skimming carefully ; then add the yellow leaves of a lettuce, and boil for five minutes longer; next add a handful of chervil and sorrel, and a few leaves of beetroot, cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, and let it remain for a quarter-of-an-hour; then strain it, and it is ready for serving. Care must be taken that every particle of fat is removed. (6) Turkish.—Pluck and draw two or three Fowls, wash them well, and put them in a saucepan with two or three onions cut into quarters, a piece of celery, and 5 or 6 pints of water. Place them over the fire till the water boils, then skim it, move the pan to the side, add a lump of salt, and boil the Fowls till the meat can be easily removed from the bones. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in a cool place for use. Fowl Consomme.—Remove the fillets of two chickens, and j put the carcasses with 61b. of fillet of veal into a stock- | pot with 5qts. of good stock, season with Joz. of salt, place the pot on the fire, and boil; then skim it well, and add two j onions stuck with two cloves each, a head of celery, and four leeks. Let the pot remain on the side of the fire to simmer for about three hours, skim off the fat, strain the broth, and clarify, with the fillets of chicken previously removed; then strain once more through a cloth into a basin. This consomme should be colourless. Fowl Consomme with Green Peas.—Put two Fowls into a stewpan with lgall. of water, a few veal bones, and a piece of gravy-beef, and boil for an hour; then take out the birds, and add 1 teaspoonful of bruised peppercorns, half a blade of mace, a small bay-leaf, and a bunch each of parsley and sweet herbs. Place the pan on the side of the fire, simmer for three hours, strain into a deep jar or basin, remove the fat, and pour the fine part that is without any sediment through a broth-napkin or jelly-bag, once or twice, so as to have it quite clear. Put it back again into the stewpan, which must be perfectly clean, add 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour mixed with a little water, salt to taste, and use a little browning to give it the colour of strong tea. Wash J pint of green peas thoroughly in hot water, and put them in the consomme just before serving. Fowl Cream.—(1) Cut up the white meat of a Fowl into very small pieces, pound them in a mortar, and pass through a fine sieve into a basin; add the yolks of three eggs, a little butter, cream, salt and pepper, and work them into a smooth paste ; a slight flavour of onions may be added, if desired, by putting a small piece of onion in the cream for a few minutes. Have ready a well-buttered basin, put the mixture in this, Fowls—continued. and steam it over a saucepan of boiling water for an hour or so, when it will be ready to serve. (2) Chop the flesh from the breasts of one or two Fowls, and pound it in a mortar; pass the meat through a fine hair sieve, return it to the mortar with the crumb of a French roll that has been soaked in as much milk as it will absorb, and Jib. of butter. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and when quite smooth, mix with it 1 teacupful of thick cream that has been whipped to a stiff froth. Melt a lump of butter in a mould, turn it about so that the whole of the interior gets well coated, and fill it with the above mixture. Put a sheet of buttered paper over the top of the mould, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould out on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. (3) Finely mince the white flesh of the remains of some cold cooked Fowl, put it into a mortar with a good-sized lump of butter and a small quantity of bechamel sauce, and pound it. Stir in the yolks of four eggs with the above mixture, beat all well together, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with the above ingredients. Turn the mixture into a croustade, and put it into a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty-five minutes, according to the quantity. When ready, put the croustade on to a hot dish, and serve it at once. (4) Clean and draw a couple of young Fowls, partially boil them in water, drain them, and cut them into pieces. Put a large lump of butter into a stewpan with a few chopped morels and some chopped parsley, and fry them for two or three minutes ; then put in the pieces of Fowl, dredge them with flour, salt, and pepper, and fry them until browned. Pour J pint of boiling water over the Fowls, put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on the top, and stand it over a slow fire. When the liquor has reduced, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and a small lump of butter. Stir it occasionally until boiling. Put the Fowls on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (5) Pound the flesh from half a boiled chicken in a mortar, then put it in a saucepan, and moisten with 3 pints of broth, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of raw rice, one bouquet of herbs, J table-spoonful oi salt, twelve whole peppers, and three cloves, and boil thoroughly for thirty minutes ; then strain through a fine sieve, put in 1 teacupful of cream, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of small pieces of cooked chicken in the tureen. Fowl Cromeskies.—(1) Boil a calf’s udder in stock, and when cool, trim and cut it the length of the piece in thin slices. Prepare a salpigon of Fowl, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, mixed with German sauce; when cold, put some of the salpiijon on each slice of the udder, and roll them up in something the shape of corks ; dip them in batter, and fry them till crisp and brown in boiling fat. Take them out, drain, and dish them, garnishing with fried parsley. (2) Remove the skin of some cold roasted Fowl, and chop the flesh coarsely. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and when smooth, put in the pieces of Fowl and fry them for a few minutes. Next put in a few chopped mushrooms, and a small quantity of minced parsley, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices. Moisten to height with stock, stir the whole over the fire until on the point of boiling, then move it to the side and stir in the yolk of one egg that has been beaten in with the strained juice of a small lemon. Spread the mince out on a plate, and leave it until cold. Cut some bacon that has been partially boiled, into thin slices, place a small quantity of the mince on each slice, and roll the bacon round it. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 tablespoonful of olive-oil, and about 1 teacupful of water; next stir in until smooth sufficient flour to make it the consistency of batter, with a small quantity of salt; beat the batter well, and add lastly the well-whisked whites of two eggs. Dip each of the cromeskies in the batter, and fry them in hot lard until browned. As 'each one is done, take it out of the fat, drain it for a minute on a sheet of paper, and serve on a napkin on a dish. Fowl Croquettes.—(1) Select two Fowls weighing about 31b. each, put them into a saucepan with water to cover them,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 619 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, t(c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fowls—continued. add two onions and carrots, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, a few cloves, and half a grated nutmeg, and boil until the birds are tender; then remove the skin, gristle, and sinews, and chop the meat as fine as possible. Put lib. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir well over the fire for a few minutes, add i pint of the liquor the Fowls were cooked in, and 1 pint of rich cream, and boil for eight or ten mintes, stirring constantly. Remove the pan from the fire, season with salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, and a little powdered sweet marjoram, add the chopped meat, and stir well; now add the yolks of four eggs, stir them rapidly in, place the saucepan on the fire for a minute, stirring well, turn the mass on to a dish, spread it out, and let it get cold. Cover the hands with flour, form the mass into shapes, dip them into egg beaten with cream, then in sifted breadcrumbs, and let them stand to dry for an hour or so; then plunge them into boiling lard, and fry them a delicate colour. Take them out, drain them, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. The remainder of the chicken stock may be used for making consomme or soup. (2) Select a pair of Fowls weighing 121b. the pair. Boil a sweetbread for three minutes, put it into cold water, take it out in an hour, and drain it. Boil a calf’s brain, and set it aside to cool; boil also J pint of cream with 1 breakfast- cupful of sifted breadcrumbs. Put the Fowls into a saucepan with water to cover them, and boil until tender; take them out, skim the fat from the liquor, pour off the clear portion, and boil it dowrn to | pint. Skin the Fowls, reject the brown flesh, tendons, and gristle, and chop up all the white meat, together with the sweetbread and brain, adding 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, 1 teaspoonfal of salt, and half the quantity each of powdered mustard, mace, and white pepper. Cut up two shallots and one onion, put them into a frying-pan with 4oz. of butter, and fry them; add 1 table-spoonful of flour, | stir briskly until well mixed, turn it into a saucepan, add the chopped meat, the jelly from the broth, and the soaked breadcrumbs, and stir well over the fire until hot; add the yolks of four eggs, stir well again, remove from the fire, and let it cool. When cool enough to be handled, pound it in a mortar, spread it on a dish, set it away in an ice-box to | stiffen, and let it remain for two or three hours; take it out, mix thoroughly, form it into shapes, rolling them slightly in cracker-crumbs, dip them one at a time into beaten egg, then into sifted breadcrumbs, and let them stand for an hour ; then roll them again, and set them away in the ice-box until wanted. Plunge them into a frying-pan with a good supply of boiling fat, and fry to a golden colour, turning them to keep them in shape and uniform in colour. Take them out, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley and watercress. The best shape to form these croquettes is like a sugar-loaf or a roll, and not flat. One table-spoonful of the mixture should be used for each. (3) Use cold roasted or boiled chicken, chopped not too fine, and fib., or half a can, of mushrooms cut into small dice. Put into a saucepan 1 teaspoonful of grated onion and 1 table- spoonful of butter, and let them begin to brown ; then stir in 2 piled table-spoonfuls of flour and f pint of chicken broth or water, or of water mixed with the liquor of the canned mushrooms ; then add the chopped chicken and mushrooms, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and 1 wineg'lassful of sherry or Madeira wine; stir the mixture until it begins to boil; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in [ the yolks of four eggs. After the eggs are added, pour the mixture upon an oiled dish, and let it cool. Have ready a deep bowl containing two beaten eggs, a large plateful of cracker-dust or fine breadcrumbs, and, over the fire, a frying- pan half full of fat. Wet the hands with cold water, form the croquettes like large corks, handling them very lightly and quickly, and roll them in crumbs; then dip them in the beaten eggs, again roll them in crumbs, and fry them golden brown in the smoking-lxot fat. When they are done, take them out of the fat with a skimmer, lay them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, arrange them in a pile on a dish, and serve them hot. The shaping of the croquettes requires a very light, deft touch, because, to be good, they should be very soft. A little practice will enable any careful cook to make them successfully. Fowls—continued. (4) Bone a cooked chicken, cut it into small, square pieces, put them in a saute-pan with two truffles cut the same way, add J pint of strong veloute sauce, and cook for ten minutes ; then stir in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir briskly, and then put it away to cool in a flat dish. Divide the mixture into six parts, lay them on a slab, sprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs, roll them into oblong shapes, dip each one into beaten egg, and roll again into fresh breadcrumbs; fry to a light brown in hot fat for four minutes, drain thoroughly, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorating with a little green parsley. '(5) Mince the flesh of cold cooked Fowl, also one-foui’th of the quantity of ham; chop very fine two shallots, and mix them writh the meat. Put the mixture over the fire in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, add a seasoning of pepper and grated nutmeg, and shake the pan over the fire for five or ten minutes; then stir in gently the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of cream, and mix for two minutes ; then take it from the fire, and let it cool. When sufficiently cold, make it up into balls about the size of eggs, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them a good brown in boiling oil or butter. Lay them in the middle of a hot dish, surround them with a border of boiled rice or mashed potatoes, and serve with mushroom or truffle sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Cut off the meat from the breasts of two or three Fowls, mince it, add to it a few cooked Fowl’s livers, some ham and a few mushrooms, all finely minced; add to this some chicken forcemeat, 1 teacupful of melted glaze, and a little grated nutmeg; when well mixed, divide into several pieces of an equal size, roll them on a table sprinkled with breadcrumbs, dip them in beaten egg, roll them again in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat till brown; drain them, dish in pyramids on a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (7) Chop 8oz. of cooked chicken-meat very fine, and season it with 1 pinch of cayenne, 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, i teaspoonful each of celery salt and salt, 1 teaspoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and lemon-juice, and a few drops of onion-juice. Take 1 pint of cream, put it into a saucepan, and scald it. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into another pan, and melt it; when it begins to bubble, add 2 table- spoonfuls of cornflour, and stir well. Pour in one-third of the hot cream, and stir continually as it boils and gets thick ; add the remainder of the cream in the same way, seeing that as every fresh lot is put in, the mixture is quite smooth. When all the cream is added and the sauce is quite thick, like batter, add ^ teaspoonful each of salt, celery salt and pepper, a little cayenne, and one egg well beaten, put in the meat, using only such a quantity as will make it soft and easy to handle, and spread it on a plate to get cold. Make it into shapes like rolls, dip them first in breadcrumbs, then in egg, and then breadcrumbs again, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry for a minute. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, and serve with some thin cream sauce in a tureen. (8) Cut the flesh of a cold roasted Fowl into very small pieces. Thicken pint of gravy with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine, the juice of one lemon, and a small quantity of dissolved gelatine, season to taste with salt and cayenne, stir over the fire, and boil for a few minutes; then remove it to the side, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Mix the Fowl with the sauce, and leave it until cold. Divide the mixture into small, equal-sized quantities; strew grated breadcrumbs over the table, roll them on this to the shape of small sausages, and dip them in beaten egg, then in grated bread and Parmesan cheese. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, put in the croquettes, and fry them until equally and delicately browned. Place them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. If they are intended for garnish, they should be made small. Fowl Croquettes a la Perigourdin. — Prepare some cro- quettes,. composed of chicken, mushrooms, two truffles cut into small square pieces, and loz. of cooked smoked tongue in small pieces. Fry them for four minutes, and serve. Make hot J- pint of Madeira sauce, add to it one chopped truffleTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 620 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. and six chopped mushrooms, cook five minutes, and serve in a saucebowl. Fowl Croquettes a la Perigueux.—The same as for a la Reine, substituting hot perigueux sauce for sauce a la Reine. Fowl Croquettes a la Reine.—Make a croquette preparation with chicken and mushrooms, roll it into six cork-shaped pieces, dip each one separately in beaten egg, then in sifted or rasped breadcrumbs, fry them in very hot fat for four minutes, drain them thoroughly, and place them on a hot dish over a folded napkin. Serve with J pint of hot sauce a la Reine in a sauceboat. Fowl Croquettes with Onions.—Cut the meat from the breast of a cold roasted Fowl, mince it, and mix with it some cooked Fowl’s livers, mushrooms, and pickled ox-tongue, all cut in dice. Cut four large onions in quarters, boil for fifteen minutes, drain, and put in another saucepan with a piece of butter, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and fry them over the fire till all the butter is absorbed; add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, moisten with a little milk till of the con- sistency of firm bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire till the onions are done; add 1 teacupful of melted glaze, strain it | in with the meat, and when well mixed, spread it on a board. When cold, divide into small equal parts, roll these in egg- and-breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Drain them, arrange them on the napkin, and serve. Fowl Cutlets.—(1) Cut off the flesh from a cold boiled chicken, I chop it into dice, put it into a stewpan to cook with half its bulk of raw truffles also cut into dice, 4 table-spoonfuls of quenelle forcemeat, and 2 table-spoonfuls of reduced veloute sauce. Divide this mixture into eight equal parts, and roll them on a well-floured board, making them into the shape of cutlets, and sticking a small bone in the thin end. Take them one by one, dip them first into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, seeing that the crumbs are equally dis- j tributed over them, plunge them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them till coloured. Take them out, drain them on | a cloth, put a paper frill on each bone, and arrange them in a circle on a dish, with a mince of vegetables in the centre (see Fig. 775). (2) Cut off the legs of a chicken, with as much meat as can be removed with them, cutting close to the carcase, and serve the wings in the same way, so as to make four | cutlets. Loosen the larger bone in each leg, push all the meat on one side, make a hole, and pull it out, leaving the thin bone in ; scrape the meat from the ends of the bones, leaving about Jin., and chop off the knobby ends. Shape the meat as nearly like cutlets as possible, drop them into boiling broth or water, and parboil them for five minutes ; take them out, put them on to flat dishes, with other dishes laid on the top of them to keep them flat, and let them remain like this until quite cold. Dip each into egg, then into breadcrumbs or cracker-meal, plunge them into a frying- pan with hot lard or butter, and fry until done. Serve on a dish, and garnish with vegetables and parsley. Fowl Forcemeat.—(1) Take sufficient meat from a cooked Fowl, so that when it has been pounded and passed through a fine hair sieve there will be lib. of the puree; add to this lOoz. of veal udder, boiled and pounded the same as the chicken, and mix well, adding lOoz. of panada made with some good stock, and seasoning with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste. Pound all these well together, and moisten with reduced German sauce until it is of a good consistence. Take a small piece and plunge it into boiling water or stock, Fowls—continued. and if it is too thick, add a little double cream or a little more of the sauce; it is then ready for use. (2) Take the flesh from a cooked Fowl, the breast part for preference, put it into a mortar, and pound it weil; then pass it through a very fine sieve, and roll it up into a ball. Take a piece of bread panada, about half the bulk of the meat, put it into a mortar with a little butter (taking 2oz. to the lib. of meat), and half the quantity of fat bacon, scraped with a knife; pound these well, and then put in the meat, and mix well; season with salt and pepper to taste, and moisten with well-beaten egg, adding it gradually. Take a little of the forcemeat and drop it into boiling stock or water to poach; if it is too stiff, add a little white sauce ; if too thin, a little more yolk of egg. It will then be ready for use. (3) Chop up two uncooked breasts of chickens, and pound them in a mortar, adding an equal quantity of bread soaked in milk, 1 teaspoonful of fresh butter, and the yolks of four eggs, seasoning with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix all together, strain, put it in a bowl with 3 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce, and use as required. Fowl Forcemeat with Cream.—Cut into slices the breasts of two uncooked chickens, and pound them well in a mortar, adding the whites of three eggs ; bruise well, and season with § table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful each of pepper and grated nutmeg; add 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh cream, strain through a sieve, cool on the ice, and use as desired. Fowl Forcemeat for Fatties.—Remove the skin from a Fowl, cut off all the flesh from the bones, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Soak |lb. of breadcrumbs in milk, take it out, and squeeze it dry; then rub 3oz. of warmed butter into it, put in the meat, and add a little grated nutmeg and salt to taste, moisten with the yolks of four eggs, and form the forcemeat into balls. A thin slice of ham or cooked bacon wrapped round each ball is a great improvement, and the addition of a little chopped parsley is advised. Fowls Fried in Batter.—Roast two Fowls, and when cold cut them into joints, trim off the skin, and lay them in a deep dish ; season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, and squeeze the juice of one or two lemons, according to size, over them. Leave the joints for an hour or two, turning them occasionally so that they may absorb part of the acid. Boil the trimmings of the birds in sufficient water to make the requisite quantity of gravy, and season it afterwards; then strain it, and thicken it with flour and butter kneaded together. Cut loz. of butter into small pieces, put them in a basin with 1 teacupful of boiling water, and stir until dissolved; then pour in 1 teacupful of cold water, stir in very slowly 6oz. of flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt. When the butter is smooth, mix with it the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth. Dip the pieces of Fowl one at a time in the batter, and, covering them well with it, put them in a flat stewpan with boiling lard or butter, and fry them until browned all over. Drain the pieces of Fowl on a sheet of paper, arrange them on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat. Fowl Fritters. — (1) Finely mince the white flesh of a cold roasted chicken. Beat four eggs with | pint of milk and 1 pint of cream, and then stir in sufficient ground rice to make a thin batter. Put the minced chicken in the batter with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-shred candied lemon-peel, the grated peel of one fresh lemon, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; then turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon. When cooked, leave the mixture until cool, then roll it out, and cut it into small rounds. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and make it hot; then put in the fritters, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain, lay them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. (2) Cut the meat of some cold cooked chicken into slices. Put a good quantity of clarified fat into a saucepan, and place it over the fire to get hot. Dip the pieces of chicken in beaten egg and then in finely-sifted breadcrumbs that have been well seasoned with salt and pepper, then throw them into the saucepan of hot fat. As each piece is lightly browned, take it out of the pan, and lay it on paper near the fire to drain off the fat. When well drained, arrange621 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fowls—cont inued. the slices of Fowl on a hot dish. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, mixing it well; then pour in gradually 1 teacupful of milk, and continue stirring' over the fire until it boils. Mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with the sauce, boil it for two minutes longer, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the fritters. Serve very hot. (3) Cut a cold roasted or boiled Fowl into small pieces, place them in an earthen dish, and season well with salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon. Let the mince stand one hour, then make a frying batter, and stir the meat into it. Drop this by the spoonful into boiling fat, and fry till a light brown. Drain, and serve immediately. Fowl Glaze. — Put 31b. each of knuckle and fillet of veal in a stockpot, having first tied them together. Pluck and draw three Fowls, wash, and put them in the stockpot with the meat; pour in lgall. of water, and stand the pot over the fire. When the liquor boils, add Jib. each of leeks, onions, and carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs, move the stockpot to the side, and simmer till the meat is tender; then take out the meat and Fowls, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, put it into a glazing-pan, and boil till reduced to one-third; then pour it into a basin. On the following day, the glaze having set, remove about Jin. from the top, turn it upside down, and cut off the thick sediment that will have settled at the bottom ; when the glaze is trimmed, put it into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it is reduced to the thickness of Spanish sauce. Turn it into a jar or bowl, and keep tied over with paper till wanted for use. Fowl Glaze for Preserving.—Put 101b. each of beef and fillet of veal into a stockpot with beef-bones and a couple of knuckles of veal, add six Fowls, one being coloured by roasting, pour over sufficient water to cover the whole, and bring it slowly to the boil; skim well, add seasoning to taste, using only a small quantity of salt, cover over the pot, and boil continuously for six hours. If preferred, the pot may be hermetically sealed with flour-and-water paste, and the contents cooked in the oven, by which moans the richness of the liquor will be better brought out. Strain the liquor through a cloth, skim off every particle of fat, pour it into a saucepan on the fire, and reduce it; stirring with a wooden spoon, when nearly reduced, to prevent it catching, and as soon as it becomes thick and sticks thickly to the spoon, turn it out on to buttered baking-sheets (with upturned edges), and let it remain for four or five hours; then cut it into cakes, 2Jin. by ljin., pack them away in slightly-buttered tin boxes, and use as required. When wanted, dissolve as many as required in warm -water, and a soup is at once pre- pared. If desired, any quantity or kind of vegetables may be cooked with the meat, giving the soup a richer and more savoury flavour. The boxes containing the cakes should be kept with their lids on in a cool place. Fowl Gravy.—Put the bones and trimmings of a Fowl into a stockpot with a small quantity of stock, and boil them; add flour and butter (previously fried to a light brown) to thicken it, and then place the stockpot on the side of the fire where it will simmer. Stir well, and after the gravy has simmered for some time, skim and strain it, and it is then ready for use. Fowl-and-Ham Sandwiches.—Cut some thin slices of bread, remove the crusts, and spread butter thinly over them. Lay on the buttered side of the bread some slices of cold Fowl, and over these very thin slices of ham, adding a little salt and mustard to taste; lay a slice of bread, buttered side downwards, over each, press them gently together, trim, and cut the sandwiches into oblong pieces. When about to serve, lay them on a napkin on a dish, and garnish with fresh parsley. Fowl Jelly.—(1) For this an old bird is best, or if the white parts of the meat have been used for entrees, the legs can be reserved for jelly. Put the Fowl into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil slowly for an hour; then take out the bird, slip out the bones, crush or pound them, return them to the broth, simmer slowly for an-hour-and-a-half, season with salt and a little white pepper, and strain through muslin after passing through a colander. Pour it into a mould or a shallow dish, and let it set; then turn out, and 1 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Si Fowls—continued. serve on a napkin, with a garnish of parsley or watercress. The jelly should be strong enough to keep shape, and might be cut into croutons if liked. A little grated tongue or ham may be served with this jelly. (2) Clean, draw, and boil a Fowl weighing about 41b., put it in a saucepan, pour over 4 pints of water, and put it on the stove; when it boils, skim it, and simmer at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Take out the Fowl, skin it, and remove all the meat from the bones. Put the bones into the liquor again, and boil quickly till it is reduced to one-half its original quantity, strain, and set it away to cool. On the following day, skim off the fat, and turn the jelly into a saucepan, but be careful to keep back the sediment. To each quart of jelly, add Joz. of the best gelatine soaked in cold water, put to this an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery cut into small pieces, twelve peppercorns, a blade of mace, the white and shell of an egg, and salt and pepper to taste; when it boils, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly for twenty minutes. Strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve, pour a little of it in a 3-pint mould, making a thin layer about jin. deep, and stand the mould on ice. Having cut the meat from the Fowl in long fillets, and sprinkled it with salt and pepper, put it on the set jelly, pour in the remainder of the jelly, and leave it on the ice till set. Before dishing, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it round, turn the jelly out on to a dish, and garnish with parsley. Tartar or mayonnaise sauce may be served with it. Fowl in Jelly.—Draw and clean a Fowl, and cut it up, with the exception of the breast, which should be left whole. Put the pieces in a stewpan with the liver, heart, and gizzard, add two bay-leaves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, and half a small lemon, pour in water to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the Fowl very gently until the meat is tender. When cooked, take the Fowl out of the liquor, cut the meat off the breast into four long strips, and cut the remainder of the flesh into smaller pieces. Put the bones back into the saucepan with Joz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of water, and boil them gently for fifteen or twenty minutes longer. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, and pour sufficient into a deep pie-dish to cover the bottom. When this jelly has set, arrange on the top of it a device in hard-boiled eggs, put the largest slice of Fowl in the centre of the dish, arrange some of the other slices round it, pour in another layer of the jelly, and leave it until set; then put in the remainder of the pieces of meat, arranging them tastefully, pour the remainder of the jelly carefully over, and put it in a cold place. When the jelly is quite firm, dip the dish in warm water, wipe it, turn the contents quickly over on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Fowl Kebob.—Clean and draw a young Fowl. Put 1 dessert- spoonful of coriander-seeds, 1 teaspoonful each of cayenne and ginger, three or four cardamoms, five cloves, a small clove of garlic, and 2 table-spoonfuls of onion-juice into a mortar, pound to a smooth paste, and rub it well over the Fowl, both inside and out, then truss the Fowl. Put Jib. of butter into a braising-pan, and melt it; then put in the Fowl, dredge it with salt, and fry until lightly browned on both sides. This should be done very carefully over a slow fire. When cooked, take the Fowl out and place it on a hot dish; thicken the gravy in the pan with a small quantity of flour, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour it round the Fowl, garnish with a few thin rolled slices of fried bacon, and serve. Fowl-and-Macaroni Pie.—Cut up any cold cooked Fowl into convenient - sized pieces, also cut up some bacon or ham. Butter a pie-mould, line it with rich paste, fill the hollow with rice, and bake it. Boil Jib. of macaroni until tender then drain and cut it into pieces about lin. long. Put 1 teacupful each of veal stock and milk into a saucepan, season well, thicken with flour, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put the meat and ham in the sauce, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. After the paste is cooked, empty out the rice, and turn it out of the mould. Turn the meat and sauce into the paste-shape, strew grated cheese on the top, and serve. Fowls with Nouilles.—Singe and draw a couple of fat Fowls remove the breast-bones, and stuff and cook them as for Ivory- ices, cfrc., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 6 22 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Tjtensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. White Chicken, preparing the nouilles as follows : Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, 5 table-spoonfuls of flour, a large piece of butter, and a little salt, and moisten it with a little water, but let the paste be quite thick ; work it well with the hand, and then roll it out on a board. Sprinkle the board with flour, and roll the paste out into long thin strips. Plenty of flour is required to prevent the paste sticking. Place these nouilles in salted water to blanch, take them out, drain well, refresh them in cold water, put into a saucepan with a little broth, and cook until they are done; then take them out, drain, put them into German sauce, and toss well. Place the Fowls on a dish, and serve with the nouilles for garnish. Fowl Fatties.—(1) Line some patty-tins with puff paste, and bake them a light brown. Take any remains of cold, roasted Fowls and their stuffing, put bones and stuffing into a sauce- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and stew slowly. Mince very fine the meat of the chicken. When the gravy made of the bones and stuffing’ is reduced to i pint, strain it, put it on the fire again, add to it 3 table-spoonfuls of milk, loz. of butter rolled in flour, and a little pepper and salt. Let this boil for a few minutes, stir in the minced chicken, and let it get very hot, but after the chicken is added do not let it boil. Turn the paste out of the tins, arrange them on a hot dish, and fill them with the minced chicken, taking care that it is thoroughly stirred. Serve hot. (2) Cut up the flesh from one or two boiled Fowls into small pieces, so as to provide about pint of meat, put it into a saucepan with cayenne, salt and pepper, a little grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, and loz. of butter ; pour over 1 pint of rich cream sauce, and place the pan on the side of the fire where it will simmer gently until required for use. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill them with the chicken mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until done. The sauce must be thick so that it will not run when put in the patties. Serve hot. Fowl Fie.—(1) Prepare two Fowls, divide them into four pieces each, and sprinkle them with flour, salt, and pepper. At the bottom of a pie-dish put some slices of raw ham, a small quantity of minced onion and mushrooms, season with pepper and salt, put in the pieces of chicken, pour over a little cold water, damp the edges of the paste, put round a thin strip j of puff paste, cover with a round of puff paste, ornament j the top with leaves, and bake for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Prepare a Fowl, disjoint it, and boil for three-quarters- j of-an-hour, with two onions stuck with four cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme, six thin slices of bacon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 3 pints of water. When the pieces of Fowl are j done, take all the meat off the bones, put it in the broth again, and reduce to f pint by boiling fast. Put three slices of the bacon at the bottom of a pie-dish, put in the meat of the Fowl after draining it, intermixed with veal-and-ham force- meat balls, and put the other slices of bacon on the top. Skim the gravy, season with pepper and salt, pour it in the pie, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven till done. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Draw and clean a Fowl, put it in a saucepan with salted water to cover it, and boil till tender; drain, and leave the Fowl till cold, then pick all the meat off the bones, and finely mince it. Peel and finely chop two onions, put them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry till browned, but take care not to burn them. Mix the fried onions with the minced Fowl, and season the mixture with salt and pepper. Butter a baking-tin, lay in it ten thin flats of paste, one over the other, and moisten each with warmed butter. Spread the minced mixture all over the paste, then cover it with ten more thin flats of paste, basting each with butter as before, and pouring warmed butter over the top. Put the pie in a hot oven, and bake till browned. When cooked, cut the pie into quarters, | and serve. (4) Cut a Fowl into six pieces, first dividing it in halves I through the back and breast, put the pieces in a saucepan | with the heart and gizzard, cover with water, and boil till nearly done. Put in one large potato cut in pieces, and when it is cooked, thicken with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed with a little water, then adding a little chopped parsley. Put all into a large baking-dish, sprinkle a little Fowls—continued. pepper, flour, and salt over the top, cover with a good pie- crust, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Singe, draw, and clean a Fowl, cut it into pieces, put them in a stewpan with 3 pints of boiling water, 1 table- spoonful of salt, a little pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When it comes to the boil, skim and move to the side of the fire, and simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Take out the pieces of Fowl, and put them in a deep pie-dish. Boil the liquor for fifteen minutes. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a frying-pan; when melted, add 3_ table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir until smooth, but not brown. Skim, and take out the herbs from the liquor in which the Fowl was boiled, stir in the flour and butter, and boil for ten minutes. Beat two eggs with a little milk, and add it gradually to the gravy; turn the sauce into the pie-dish, and set it away to cool. Cover the pie with a good crust, bake for an hour in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. (6) Clean a Fowl weighing about 2Jlb., bone it, lard it with seasoned strips of bacon, and spread a layer of veal forcemeat over it. Line an oval pie-dish about 8in. long with short-paste, cover the paste with forcemeat, lay the chicken in it (skin upwards), put a layer of forcemeat on the top, put some thin slices of bacon on the forcemeat, and a bay-leaf on the top of that. Put a paste cover on, damping the edges to make the paste stick, and make it even all round. Roll out some more paste to make a second cover, damp it underneath to fix it on the pie, egg the top over, cut a pattern on it with the point of a sharp knife, and make a hole in the top. Bake in a slow oven for two hours. Serve either hot or cold. The second crust may be omitted if the first top crust is thick. (7) Skin a Fowl, cut it into joints, put these into a deep pie-disli over a few thin slices of salted pork, pour over just enough water to cover, lay another dish on top of the pie-dish to keep in the steam, and put it in a moderately hot oven towards evening, letting it remain there all night. Next day line a pie-dish with short-paste, put in the Fowl, pork, and several slices of hard-boiled eggs, add salt and pepper to taste, cover with more paste, and bake for about an hour. (8) Pluck, singe, and draw a Fowl, put it into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover, place the lid on the pan, and stew for an hour. Take out the bird, cut it up into moderate-sized pieces, wrap each one round with bacon cut into thin slices, put them in a pie-dish, intermixing with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and season with about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in as much of the stock as the dish will hold, cover over with a light crust, put the pie into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Fowl Fie a la Francaise.—Make 21b. of flour into short-paste, knead it well, cut a piece off and lay it aside for the cover of the pie. Knead the rest of the paste into a ball, press the thumb into the middle of it, and by degrees work it into a hollow oval or round about 5in. high; stand it on a sheet of floured paper, fill it with bran, roll out the piece of paste laid aside for the purpose, and cover the pie with it. Trim the edges and pinch them together, ornament the top with some of the same paste cut into flowers or any other fancy shapes, brush the sides and top of the pie with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it brown in not too quick an oven. When sufficiently baked, cut off the top carefully, take out the bran, and fill the pie with fricassee of chicken. Put the cover on again, lay a napkin on a dish, place the pie on it, and serve. Fowl Filau.— (1) Put 1 pint of cold chicken-meat cut in small pieces into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and warm it until the flesh is very tender. Take out the meat, add to the liquor 1 pint of tomatoes passed through a sieve, salt, pepper, an onion finely chopped, and a little chutney sauce or curry to season it, and place it again on the fire ; when it is boiling, add * pint of well-washed rice, and boil for twenty minutes, or until the rice is soft; then put in the pieces of chicken and 1 teacupful of cream or butter, and make it all hot. Garnish a dish with three- cornered pieces of toast, turn out the pilau, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets of two Fowls in pieces, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till lightly browned.623 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Put them in a stewpan, season, add 21b. of well-washed rice, | fill the stewpan with chicken-broth, and simmer for fifteen j minutes; add 12oz. of clarified brown butter, half close the stewpan, stand it at the side of the fire, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the pilau out on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Cut a Fowl into pieces, seasoning with salt and pepper, and boil fib. of well-washed rice until tender. Line the bottom of a baking-dish with slices of bacon and onion, put in the pieces of Fowl with two or three cloves, and fill up the dish with rice. Make a flour-and-water paste, roll it out into a thin flat, and cover the contents of the dish with it. Bake the pilau for three-quarters-of-an-hour; at the end of that time remove the paste crust, pour in boiling flavoured gravy, arrange some slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and serve very hot. (4) Boil a Fowl in 3 pints of water. When it is nearly done, cook lib. of rice, that has been well washed three or four times and drained quite dry, in ill', of butter; when almost fried brown, throw it into the water the Fowl is boiling in, add a blade of mace, three or four cloves, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and two or three bay-leaves, and let all boil together till the water is all absorbed. Put the Fowl and rice on a hot dish, pick out the spice and bay-leaves, lay over the rice and Fowl some slices of onions fried brown, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. (5) Indian.—Clean and truss a young Fowl, put it into a saucepan with lib. of beef, season with onions, ginger, and cloves, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil over a moderate fire until the chicken is done and quite tender. Take out the bird, strain the gravy into a basin, and keep both warm. Put ^lb. of fat into a sauce- pan, warm it, and throw in twelve large onions cut into thin slices; when it begins to boil, slightly brown them, then add, removing the onions to the side of the pan, 1 break- fast-cupful of well-washed rice, and fry until all the fat is absorbed. Now add four or five cardamom-seeds, six small sticks of cinnamon, a few peppercorns, one or two blades of mace, and J table-spoonful of salt. Mix well, pour over the gravy in which the chicken was boiled, using only sufficient to cover, place the lid on the pan, and set it on a slow fire to simmer. Reduce the heat of the fire as the liquor is absorbed, tossing the pan frequently to prevent burning. In the meantime, put the Fowl into a frying-pan with butter or fat, brown it well, put it, either whole or cut up, in the centre of a dish, pour over the pilau, strew over the fried onions, and serve with a garnish of halves of hard-boiled eggs and a few slices of fried bacon. Fowl Pilau a la Creole.—Prepared the same as for a la Turqtje, adding- three medium-sized cut-up fresh tomatoes, o.r ^ pint of tinned tomatoes, to the other garnishes. Fowl Pilau a la Turque. — Singe and draw a chicken weighing 21b., wipe it well, and cut it into twelve pieces of equal size. Brown these in a stewpan with loz. of butter, one chopped onion, and one chopped green pepper, cooking' for six minutes, and stirring lightly with a wooden spoon. Moisten with 1 pint of rich chicken broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce, add 2oz. of dried mushrooms which have been soaking in water for several hours, or twelve tinned mushrooms, and season with salt, pepper, and \ teaspoonful of diluted saffron, j When incorporated, add i pint of well-washed, uncooked rice and 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; cook for twenty minutes longer, dress neatly on a hot dish, and serve. Fowl Pot-Pie (American).—Singe, draw, and wipe a chicken from 311b. to 41b. in weight, cut it into twelve even pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and leave them in for thirty minutes; then wash them well, drain, and return to the saucepan. Cover again with fresh water, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, add a bouquet garni, six small onions, and 4oz. of salted pork cut into square pieces, and cook for three-quarters-of-an-hour, taking care to skim well; add 1 pint of raw potatoes, and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour diluted with 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Stir until it boils, and cook for ten minutes. Remove the bouquet and transfer the whole to a deep earthenware baking-dish, then moisten the edges of this slightly with water, and cover the top with crust. Brush the surface over with egg, make a few transverse lines in the paste with a fork, and cut a hole Fowls—continued. in the centre. Bake in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes, and send to table. Fowl Pudding-.—Chop fine ljlb. of the meat of a cold roasted or boiled Fowl, mix with it ilb. of finely-chopped beef-suet, Alb. of bacon or ham also finely chopped, |lb. of sifted bread- crumbs soaked in boiling milk, and add also a small quantity each of chopped mushrooms, parsley, lemon-peel, onion, and sweet herbs, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and two beaten eggs. Mix all well together, put it into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake it for an hour. Turn it out on to a hot dish, pour good gravy over it, and serve. Fowl Puree a la Turque.—Pluck, singe, and draw two Fowls, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them. Take them out, cut off all the meat from them, put it into a saucepan with milk, and add a small quantity of the stock they were partly boiled in. Boil until the meat is reduced to a pulp, mix in pounded loaf sugar to sweeten, giving it a very sweet taste, put the whole on a dish, sprinkle over pounded cinnamon, and serve. Fowl Quenelles. -(1) Mix together 1 teacupful each of bread- crumb and of finely-chopped or pounded cooked chicken-meat: season highly with salt and cayenne, and moisten with raw yolk of egg to bind it, so that little olive-shaped pieces can be moulded between two small spoons. Either roll the quenelles in egg and cracker dust, and fry them, or poach them until they float in boiling broth or water, and use them as required. (2) German.—Cut off the breast and the thickest parts of the flesh of an uncooked Fowl, chop it finely, mix with it 3oz. of beef-suet, also finely chopped, and pound in a mortar. Soak two or three slices of bread in milk; when soft, press them well, put them with the meat, and pound the whole well together. Season the mixture with 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped par.-ley, J table-spoonful of minced lemon-peel, a little salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture with well-beaten eggs, divide it into small portions, roll them like balls, and boil them for ten minutes in clear broth. When cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Fowl Quenelles with Consomme. — Make some chicken quenelles, and roll them about the size of thick corks. Butter the interior of a stewpan, put in the quenelles, with a small quantity of salt and sufficient water to cover them, and poach them. Drain them when they are cooked, put them into a soup-tureen, pour gently over them clear boiling chicken consomme, and serve. Fowl Quenelle Forcemeat.—Put the crumb of a French roll into a saucepan, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of chicken- broth and 1 of veloute sauce, add also 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and stir over a moderate fire until of such a consistence that it will not stick to the pan ; then add the yolks of two eggs, spread the paste on to a dish, and cover it over with buttered paper. Put into a mortar the flesh of a cooked Fowl, pound it, rub it through a sieve, and put the puree on a dish. Have ready also about lib. of cooked calf’s udder-, rub it also through a fine sieve, and pound it in the mortar. Work the whole well together, season to taste, and form into a mass with the yolks of eggs. It is then ready for use. Fowl Quenelles witli Mushrooms. — Mince the meat of two cooked Fowls, without the skin; boil some breadcrumbs in milk till they present a thick pulp, mix with it an equal quantity of butter, add the minced Fowl, season with salt and grated nutmeg, break in the yolks of three eggs, stir all till quite smooth, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and put in 5 teacupful of double-cream. Put the backbones, necks, legs, and pinions of the chickens in a basin, cover them with warm water, and let them soak for four or five minutes; take them out, wipe them, and put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter and a slice of onion, and turn these about over the fire for a few minutes ; sprinkle in a little flour, add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, four or five peppercorns, a few mushrooms, -j pint of white wine, and lqt. of broth. When the liquor boils, stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, so that the liquor may simmer, for thirty minutes. Skim and strain the sauce, reduce it, and addTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 624 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. 1 teacupful of mushroom liquor. Shape some of the force- meat into quenelles by moulding it between 2 table-spoons, and poach them in boiling salted water ; when they are firm, take them out, drain, and place them on a towel for a few minutes to dry. Poach the remainder of the forcemeat, and make a border with it on a dish, arrange the quenelles in a circular form on the border, put in the centre some white button mushrooms and cocks’ combs, mask with the sauce, and serve. Fowl Rissoles.— (1) Make a well-flavoured mixture of pickled tongue, mushrooms, and the meat of a cold Fowl, all cooked, thicken it with a little bechamel sauce reduced with glaze, and set it in a basin to cool. Prepare fib. of puff paste, and roll it out into long thin strips, with the edges trimmed, then with a small spoon take a little at a time of the mixture and place it at intervals on the paste, leaving about lin. clear from the edge. Wet the edge of the paste and fold it over so as to completely cover in the chicken mixture; then with a channeled paste-cutter cut the paste out into rissoles, having the meat in the centre of the cutter ; roll out the rest of the paste, and continue until all the rissoles are made. Dip each one separately into well-beaten egg, and put them in a frying-pan of fat over a slow fire. When done, take them out, put them on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. (2) Cut some rounds of puff paste with a 2-Jin. fluted cutter, put a small piece of Fowl forcemeat on each round, fold over the paste to cover, and damp and press the edges to make the paste stick. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Remove the skin from some pieces of cold cooked Fowl, and mince them very finely; also chop up finely an equal quantity of ham and a small quantity of truffles. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the mince with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley; dredge lightly over with flour, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the whole over the fire until well mixed and very hot, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and leave it until cold. Prepare some good puff paste, and proceed as for No. 1. Fowl Salad.—(1) Cut the flesh of a cold roasted Fowl into slices; trim off the outside leaves of one or two lettuces, wash the remainder thoroughly, dry them on a cloth, cut them up or pull them to pieces with the fingers, and put them in a salad bowl with the pieces of Fowl. Skin and bone three anchovies, cut them into thin strips, and lay them over the pieces of Fowl, &c. Beat an egg, and mix with it 1 heaped teaspoonful of dry mustard, and a sufficient quantity of salad oil and vinegar. Season the dressing to taste with salt, pepper, and sugar, and pour it over the contents of the salad-bowl. The salad should be served directly the dressing is poured over. (2) Remove the skin and fat from a boiled chicken, and cut all the meat from the breast into dice. It should be cut with a knife, not pulled or chopped. The brown meat can | be used for other purposes. Mix up with the meat an equal bulk of tender, crisp, inner stalks of celery, give them a good coating of mayonnaise sauce, and toss the whole gently with a fork. Cover the bottom of an oval-shaped dish with the blanched inside leaves of a lettuce, placing the light-coloured green leaves round the dish for a border. Place the salad j in the centre, pour over sufficient of the sauce to well cover it, smooth the surface with a knife, garnish with thin slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. (3) Boil a chicken of 2Jib. weight in stock for one hour; when cooked, let it get thoroughly cold. Bone the Fowl, cut it up into small pieces, and put them into a deep dish, seasoning with salt and pepper, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and six leaves of chopped lettuce, or a few chopped white sticks of celery in preference. Mix well, place it in a salad- bowl, cover with J breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise dressing, decorate the top with chopped hard-boiled egg, 1 table- spoonful of capers, twelve stoned olives, also with quarters of two hard-boiled eggs and six small white lettuce-leaves placed round the dish, and serve. (4) Cut the meat of a small chicken into little squares, removing the skin. Take half a head of celery, well washed, and cut it into very small pieces. Put into a bowl the yolks Fowls—continued. of two eggs; take 1 gill of the best salad-oil and let it fall, drop by drop, into the bowl with the eggs, beating well all the time with a wooden spoon till it is a thick cream, and add to this 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Put the chicken and celery into a salad-bowl, pour over them the beaten yolks of eggs, oil and vinegar mixed together, sprinkle in 1. table-spoonful each of salt and ground white pepper, with hardly as much cayenne as will lay on the point of a small knife, and with a silver or wooden fork mix well together. Have ready washed a lettuce, arrange its leaves round the edge of the bowl, sprinkle on top of the salad 1 table-spoonful of capers, and stick some of the celery-tips in the centre. (5) Cut a dozen fillets from three young Fowls, and let them be of an equal size, remove the wing-bones, take off the skin and beat the fillets, sprinkle salt over them, and poach them in boiling butter ; when done, take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and stand a heavy weight on them. When the fillets are cold, mask them with hot ravigote sauce, and lay them on a dish till the sauce is cold. Pour some melted jelly on a dish, and mask the fillets with some of it; and when that on the dish has set, arrange the fillets in a circle on it. Make a salad of green asparagus heads and cooked truffles, cut in large pieces, put these in the centre, and serve. (6) Old Style.—Cut off the flesh of two cooked Fowls, take off the skin, cut the meat into little pieces, put them in a basin, and add salt, pepper, a pinch of chopped tarragon-leaves and a little oil and vinegar. Mix with some mayonnaise sauce 1 teacupful of cold but liquid aspic jelly. Fill a pyramid-mould, in alternate layers, with the Fowl and some of the mayonnaise, sprinkling on the top of each layer a pinch of capers and a few pickled olives without kernels, embed the mould in pounded ice, and leave it one hour. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, turn the preparation on to a hot dish, spread a coating of the prepared mayonnaise over it, smooth it evenly with the flat part of a knife, stick on the top a head of lettuce, decorate the salad with fillets of anchovies, chopped gherkins, capers, &c., and arrange round the base some hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters and masked with half-set jelly, inter- mixing with lettuce-hearts cut in quarters (see Fig. 776). An extremely pretty supper dish. Fowl Sauce.—Boil 3 pints of veloute sauce with f pint of essence of Fowl till stiffly reduced. Take the sauce off the fire, thicken it with yolks of eggs, and strain it through a fine silk sieve. Return the sauce to the stewpan, mix in with it 1 teacupful of clear aspic jelly cut into small pieces, and stir it lightly near the fire till melted, but do not boil it again. It is then ready for use. Fowls Sautes.—(1) Dubois had a method of preparing this dish which may be described as follows : Peel some truffles, put them into a saucepan with a wineglassful of wine and a little salt, place the (pan on the fire, and boil, doing so only just previous to using them. Put an equal quantity of mushrooms in a saucepan and boil them, adding a little butter and the juice of a lemon. Select a couple of fat Fowls, singe, draw, and cut off their claws and pinions, andARTISTIC TABLE-CLOTHS.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 625 Foi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. remove tlieir legs, cut the breast up so as to have two fillets and a breast-part, chop the bones of the body in halves, and with a knife break the thick bones of the legs and take them out. Place the legs in a saute-pan with a little butter, arrange them at the bottom, next put in the necks, pinions, and bones from the body, season them with salt and pepper, and place the pan on the fire so that they may fry slowly. When they are about half-cooked, put in the fillets and breast-parts, also a little parsley, sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic ; when the meat is set, remove it from the pan with a skimmer, put it into another saute-pan, and stir in the truffles. Remove the fat from the first saute-pan, put in the truffle-trimmings and a wineglassful of white wine, boil for a few minutes, and then add twice its bulk of brown sauce and the liquor in which the truffles were cooked Boil this sauce quickly for ten minutes or so, remove the fat, and pass it through a fine sieve on to the chicken- meat. Warm the meat, taking care not to let the sauce boil again. Put a croustade of fried bread in the centre of a dish, place the pinions and bones from the body round it, then place the fillets and leg’s round that again, and the parts of the breast on the top. Garnish the base with some truffles and mushrooms, put a few cocks’ combs here and there, remove the fat from the sauce, pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. (2) Cut all the meat off a large Fowl, either cooked or uncooked, and carefully remove all skin, bone, or gristle. Cut the meat into fillets or small collops as nearly the same size as possible. Put a slice of fat bacon and 1 teaspoonful of butter into a saute-pan, and fry until the bacon is cooked; then put in the chicken-meat, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper to season. Place the pan over the fire, turning frequently, and in about ten minutes the Fowl will be ready for serving. It should be cooked quite slowly; or if it has already been cooked, merely warming up will be sufficient. Place it on a dish, shake a little pepper over, and garnish with boiled bacon, mushrooms, artichoke-bottoms, egg-balls, and fried parsley. (3) In Spain, Dubois informs us, it is usual to saute Fowls in this way: Chop two Fowls into pieces, and sprinkle them over with salt and red pepper. Put the legs of the Fowls into a saucepan with £lb. of melted lard, and turn them fre- quently; when they are half-done, put in the breasts and wings, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and two medium-sized onions chopped fine; when these have cooked for about eight minutes, put in a little more than Jib. of ham (uncooked) cut into small squares. When all are cooked, take them out, add to the sauce in the pan four large tomatoes with the seeds taken out and cut into squares, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and boil on the fire until the moisture from the tomatoes is reduced ; then put in the meat again, pour a few table-spoonfuls of glaze over, warm them up, put them on a dish with the tomatoes for garnish, and serve. Fowl Saute a la Boliemienne.—Prepare two chickens as for a la Regence; put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook on a brisk fire for six minutes, turning the pieces frequently with a fork ; moisten with -V wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, and add 1 pint of Spanish sauce. Cook for ten minutes longer, add y pint of cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, and cook again for another ten minutes. Arrange the chicken on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and fill six bouchees with the macaroni taken from the stew, also a little grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled over. Garnish the dish with the bouchees, decorate the ends of the chicken legs with paper ruffles, and serve hot. Fowl Saute a la Bordelaise. — Singe and draw two chickens, cut them into twelve pieces each, put them into a saute-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil and one chopped shallot, and let them brown well for five minutes ; then moisten with i wineglassful of white wine, adding three artichoke-bottoms, each one cut into four pieces. Season with salt and pepper, put on the lid, and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes ; when about to serve add 1 teaspoonful of meat glaze, the juice of half a lemon, and 1 teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley. Dish up the pieces, decorate with paper ruffles, and garnish with the artichoke-bottoms in clusters, and twelve cooked potatoes. Fowls—continued. Fowl Saute a la Clief de Cuisine.—Select two Fowls of about 21b. weight each; singe, draw, wash thoroughly, and wipe very dry. Cut each into six pieces, season with salt and pepper, place the pieces in a saute-pan with f-oz. of butter and y table-spoonful of sweet-oil, and set it on a very hot stove. Chop one shallot and one green pepper very fine, and when the pieces of Fowls are of a light brown add the shallot and pepper, stirring well for one minute ; then add 1 wineg’lassful of white wine, and reduce to one quarter the original quantity, which will take about six minutes. Pour in 1 gill of tomato sauce and lj gills of Spanish sauce, and cook rather slowly for ten minutes longer, stirring occasionally. Dress the chickens and sauce on a very hot dish, arrange paper ruffles on the ends of the legs, and decorate the dish with the following garnishing: Take six tinned artichoke-bottoms, and spread 1 table-spoonful of d’Uxelles sauce in the centre of each. Empty the interiors of six medium-sized green peppers cooked in the oven for five minutes, stuff them with d'Uxelles sauce, and arrange them on top of the arti- chokes, their thin part uppermost, so as to give them a pyramidal shape ; lay them on a buttered tin plate or dish, and set them in a slow oven to bake for five minutes, then remove them. While they are baking, cut six round pieces of bread -.jin. thick by 2jin. in diameter, place them in a frying-pan on a hot stove with J table-spoonful of butter, and let them get a light brown. Arrange the six artichokes and peppers on top of the pieces of bread placed round the dish, and serve. Fowl Saute a la Belmonico. — Pluck two Fowls, singe them over alcohol poured on to a plate, draw them, wash them well inwardly, and wipe dry with a cloth. Cut each one into six pieces, place them in a saute-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, season with salt and pepper, set the pan on a brisk fire, and cook for about ten minutes, or until the pieces assume a light brown colour, stirring them lightly meanwhile. Chop up one shallot, and cut one g-reen pepper into small dice- shaped pieces, also the end of a- medium-sized carrot; place all these with the Fowls, and cook for a-minute-and-a-half; then add 1 wineglassful of white wine, and reduce the liquid to one half, which will take ten minutes, stirring it occasion- ally. Now add 1 gill of Spanish sauce, 1 table-spoonful of tomato sauce, the juice of a good-sized lemon, and yoz. of butter, and cook for ten minutes longer, stirring lightly with a spoon. Plunge three artichoke-bottoms (tinned will do well) into hot water, lift them up immediately with a skimmer, wipe them thoroughly dry with a napkin, and cut each one into quarters; slice three medium-sized truffles, and add all these to the Fowls two minutes before serving. Turn the Fowls and sauce on to a very hot dish, adjust paper ruffles to the ends of the legs, garnish the dish with the artichokes, place a slice of truffle in the centre of each artichoke, and a very small round slice of green or red pepper on top of each truffle, and serve very hot. Fowl Saute a la Hongroise.—Singe and draw two Fowls, cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of clarified butter, adding one finely-chopped onion and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Cook slowly, without browning, for five minutes on each side ; then moisten with y pint of bechamel sauce and y breakfast-cupful of cream, and cook again for twenty minutes. Skim off the fat, and serve with six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Fowl Saute a la Marengo.— Singe and draw two Fowls, cut them into six pieces each, lay them in an oiled saute- pan, and brown slightly on both sides for five minutes, season- ing with salt and pepper; when of a golden colour, moisten with y pint of Spanish sauce and y breakfast-cupful of mush- room liquor; add twelve button-mushrooms and two truffles cut in thin slices, also y wineglassful of Madeira wine, cook for twenty minutes, and serve with six fried eggs and six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Adjust paper ruffles on the ends of the wings and legs of the chickens, and dress them on a dish, with the garnishes round the edge. Fowl Saute a la Parmentier. — Singe and draw two chickens, cut them into twelve pieces, put them in a saute- pan with loz. of butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook on the stove for five minutes on each side, turning the pieces over with a fork. Moisten with y pint of Spanish sauce, also with y breakfast-cupful of mushroom liquor and 3 cTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 626 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. % wineglassful of sherry wine, and add a quarter of a bunch 1 of well-washed green tarragon-leaves. Cook for twenty minutes longer, arrange them on a hot dish, and garnish with | six croutons of fried bread. Fowl Saute a la Regence.— Singe, draw, and dry two j chickens, cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Season with salt and pepper, add % wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, then put the lid on, and simmer for six minutes. Moisten with pint of velout£ sauce and J breakfast-cupful of mush- room liquor. Cook for ten minutes, put in two truffles cut | into small pieces, six mushrooms, a small sweetbread, and I loz. of cooked, smoked ox-tongue, all finely chopped. Con- tinue cooking for ten minutes, then take the pan from the fire and mix in slowly the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon ; while adding the yolks, toss the pan over the fire until the gravy is thick. Put paper j ruffles at the ends of the wings and legs of the chickens, and serve. Fowl Saute with Tarragon.—Cut a raw Fowl into small | pieces, and season them with salt and pepper. Pick the leaves off a small bunch of tarragon, put the stalks in a saucepan with ^ pint of clear gravy, and boil for twenty minutes ; blanch the leaves. Put some olive oil in a saute- pan, and when boiling put in the pieces of Fowl, and toss them about until cooked and browned. Strain the gravy from the tarragon-stalks, and mix the leaves with it. Arrange the pieces of Fowl on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve without delay. The oil should be drained as much as possible off the pieces of Fowl before they are dished. Fowl in Savoury Jelly.— Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it, taking care not to break the intestines, cut off the head and feet, and divide it in four or five pieces so that it can be packed closely in a saucepan. Cover it with hot water, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, cover the saucepan closely, and boil until the bones can easily be taken out, always taking care that there is broth enough to prevent burning. After the bones have been removed from the chicken, put it into a tin or earthen mould, or an ordinary dish of suitable size, from which it can be turned when cold; strain the broth, return it to the saucepan, place it over the fire, and dissolve gelatine in it, allowing ^oz. of gelatine to lqt. of broth. Soften the gelatine in enough cold water to cover it while the chicken is being boiled, and then by stirring it with the hot broth for a few minutes it will entirely dissolve. Season the broth with salt and a very little cayenne, and pour it over the chicken in the mould; as soon as it is quite cold, it can be turned out of the mould and sliced as required. Any acid jelly or spicy pickle makes a good garnish. Cranberry jelly is excellent with it. Fowl Soup,—(1) Pluck, singe, and draw an old bird, stuff it with a large lump of fat bacon, sew up the neck and vent, truss it, flour it well, tie it up in a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with sufficient warm water to nearly cover; add two onions and one carrot, cut into slices, and a couple of cloves, cover over the pan securely, bring the water slowly to the boil, and then simmer for three hours or so, according to the size and age of the bird. Take it out, remove the cloth, put it into a bowl, cover it completely with any desired sauce, and let it remain for a day. Break it up into pieces, put it back into the saucepan with the liquor, add 1 break- fast-cupful of well-washed rice, a small turnip cut into pieces, and a blade of mace, and boil slowly for a couple of hours ; rub as much as possible through a sieve, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, wash them in warm water, put them into a saucepan with a good supply of veal broth and a bunch of parsley, and boil until tender. Take them out, strain the broth into a basin, and soak two rolls in it. Cut off all the meat from the Fowls, removing the skin, gristle, &c., chop it up fine, put it into a mortar with the rolls, add the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and pound them to a smooth paste; add this to the broth, pass it through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add lqt. of rich cream, make the soup hot without boiling, pour it into a tureen, and serve at once. Fowls—continued. (3) Put into a soup-pot a Fowl with the skin and fat taken off, two chickens skinned (a boiled cow-heel cut into pieces may be substituted for the two chickens), a knuckle of veal, a peeled onion, a peeled and washed turnip, a scraped and washed carrot, a small quantity of whole white pepper, and a little salt, and boil these in 3qts. of water. When the birds are tender, take them up and cut them into joints. Strain the soup, put the pieces of chicken into it, and place it over the fire, but do not let it boil. Beat up the yolks of nine eggs, mix with them gradually 1 table-spoonful of well-boiled rice and 1 pint of cream, and stir it gradually into the soup, continuing to stir till it is very hot. Take it from the fire and pour it into the tureen before it boils, as if it is allowed to boil after the chicken is put in and the eggs and cream added, it will be completely spoiled. (4) Blanch |lb. of sweet almonds. Take all the meat off three cold roasted Fowls, and pound it in a mortar with the almonds, moistening them while pounding with a little cream. When the almonds and meat of the Fowls are finely pounded, mix with them lgall. of well-seasoned cold beef stock, set it over the fire, boil up, and then strain it. Just before pouring it into the tureen, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and serve. (5) " Cut up 21b. of veal or lamb and the flesh of a chicken, put them iiffo a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil. Skim clear; adu two onions cut in slices, and two small grated carrots, seasoning with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt and 1 of pepper. Boil gently for nearly two hours, then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and the same of flour, worked together, and cover the pan for fifteen minutes. Serve the soup strained into a tureen. Place the chicken-meat in a deep dish, add butter and pepper to it, and serve, garnished with sprigs of parsley. The meat may be made into balls and added to the soup, but it must be chopped fine, and mixed up with 1 table- spoonful each of butter and flour, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, adding one beaten egg to form a mass. (6) Clean and wash two Fowls, cut them into joints, trim off all the skin, put them with their gizzards and livers into a saucepan, and pour 2qts. of cold water over them. When boiling, skim the liquor, season to taste with salt and pepper, and move it to the side of the fire. After it has been simmering for half-an-hour, put in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and simmer for half-an-hour longer. Beat four eggs, and when the Fowls are tender, stir the eggs quickly one way in the soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve imme- diately. If liked, the crumb of a roll can be soaked in a little of the broth, and the soup then poured over it. Fowl Soup a la Creole.—Prepared as for Fowl Soup a la Hollandaise, adding half a chopped green pepper, loz. of lean raw ham, cut in small pieces, and five minutes before serving putting one sliced tomato in the soup. Fowl Soup a la Hollandaise.—Cut about a quarter of a chicken into small pieces, and slice half an onion; brown these well together for ten minutes in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and moisten with 3 pints of consomme ; add 3 table- spoonfuls of raw rice, ^ table-spoonful of salt, a very little red pepper, and a bouquet garni. Boil thoroughly for twenty minutes, remove the bouquet, and serve. Fowl Soup a la Polonaise.—Put 12oz. of pearl barley in a saucepan with lqt. of warm water and a little salt, and boil over a slow fire until cooked, adding more warm water when required. Put three chickens into a saucepan, pour in 4qts. of white broth, and boil them until tender. When the barley is soft, drain off all the water, put a lump of butter in the saucepan, and mash it with the back of a spoon. Strain the liquor in which the Fowls were cooked through a fine hair sieve, then pour it gradually in with the barley, and boil again. Cut off the meat from the chickens, trim it, put it in a soup-tureen with some boiled vegetables cut into small pieces, pour in the soup and barley, dust in a small quantity of either chopped parsley or fennel, and serve. Fowl Soup a la Portugaise.—Prepare the soup as for Fowl Soup a la Hollandaise, adding 1 pint of finely-chopped cooked vegetables five minutes before serving. Fowl Soup a la Reine.—Prepare a soup with two Fowls and a knuckle of veal; strain it, and put it back into the saucepan to boil. In the meantime, cut off the fillets from two Fowls, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook.627 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PEACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, tike., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fowls—continued. Cut them up small, pound in a mortar, and add loz. of rice boiled in broth, 4oz. of breadcrumbs, and a little salt: put the whole into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and £ pint of Fowl troth, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until done, taking care that the liquor does not boil. Eub the whole through a fine sieve, warm it without boiling, pour it into a tureen, and serve with sma 1 pieces of toasted bread. Fowl Soup a la Richmond. -Put a quarter of a boned chicken into a saucepan with loz. of butter or fat, add one finely-shred onion and half a green pepper, also shred, and fry for ten minutes; then moisten with 3 pints of white broth, adding 1 teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in 2 table-spoonfuls of broth, a bouquet garni, 1 table-spoonful of Lima beans, 2 table-spoonfuls of green corn, and six gumbos cut up without the stalks. Season with table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, cook thoroughly for thirty-five minutes, remove the bouquet, and serve. Fowl Soup a la Turque. -Brown about a quarter of a chicken in a saucepan with loz. of butter, also loz. of raw ham and a sliced onion, moisten with lqt. of consomme and J pint of tomato sauce, add 2 table-spoonfuls of raw rice, a bouquet garni, 1 table-spoonful of salt, half a green pepper cut up, and 1 teaspoonful of diluted curry. Boil for thirty minutes, and serve, after removing the bouquet. Fowl Soup with Leeks.—Cut about a quarter of a chicken in slices, brown them for ten minutes in a saucepan with loz. of butter and half a chopped small onion, moisten with 3 pints of consomme, and add three leeks cut in pieces, a bouquet garni, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Boil thoroughly for thirty minutes, and serve, after removing the bouquet. Fowl Soup with Okras.—The same as for Fowl Soup a la Creole, adding twelve raw okras cut in pieces ten minutes before serving. Fowl with Stewed Pickle.—Cut any cold cooked Fowl into pieces, and prepare the following pickle : Put four shallots, an onion, and a carrot, all cut up into small pieces, into a saucepan with a little butter, and add a little thyme, clove, spice, bay-leaf, and a few roots of parsley. Place the pan on the fire, and let it remain until the mixture is of a light brown colour; then add a little vinegar and water. Boil again until the pickle is quite done, then add the chicken- meat, and boil again for two or three minutes. Take out the pieces of meat, drain them well, dip each piece separately into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Pour a little brown sauce on a dish, place the pieces of meat on it, and serve. Fowl Stuffing-.—Chop finely the heart, liver, and gizzard of a Fowl, season to taste, and mix them with boiled rice worked up with a little butter ; with th:s stuff a Fowl. It is then ready to be cooked. Fowl Surprise Pie.—Prepare a fricassee of Fowl, thickening it with yolks of eggs. Make a circular incision 4in. in diameter on the top of a round household loaf, scoop out all the crumb, fill up with the cold fricassee together with its liquor, replace the round cut off, and it is then ready. This is a useful and tasty way for travellers or hunters to take their lunch. Fowl as Terrapin.—Take a cold roasted chicken and a par- boiled sweetbread, and chop them up moderately fine. Put 4 pint of hot cream and 2oz. of butter into a pan, mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with it, and add the chicken mixture, with a little salt and pepper to season. Put the pan into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Before serving, add the yolks of two well-beaten eggs and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Fowl Toad-in-a-Hole.—Clean and bone a Fowl, stuff it with seasoned forcemeat, cover it over with a thick batter of flour, eggs, and milk, and bake. Serve hot. Fowl-and-Tongue Rolls.—Finely chop 6oz. of cold cooked chicken, half that quantity of tongue, and two or three white sticks of celery, mix them together, season with salt and pepper, and stir in a sufficient quantity of mayonnaise sauce to bind them. Scoop out the crumb of some French rolls, fill the hollows with the mixture, and cover the tops of the rolls with aspic jelly. A few small pieces of beetroot, cut in Fowls—continued. fancy shapes, and arranged on the tops, will greatly improve their appearance. Arrange them on a dish in an upright position, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Fowls cooked in Valencia Style.— Singe and truss a couple of large-sized Fowls as for boiling, put them into a sauce- pan with a little lard, and fry for a few minutes. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, add 4 table- spoonfuls of uncooked ham cut into small pieces, half that quantity of onions chopped very small, and lastly a clove of garlic, and fry a few minutes longer; then add two small sausages, a little saffron and bay-leaf, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne. Pour in sufficient chicken broth to cover them, put a piece of buttered paper over each one, and place the pan back again over a moderate fire. Boil gently, so as not to reduce the broth too much, and then put in half the bulk of rice that there is liquor, cover over the pan, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Bemove the pan from the fire, put it at the entrance of the oven, and let it remain for eight or ten minutes, when the rice will be quite cooked. Put the chickens on a dish on the mixture, garnish with the sausages, and serve. Fowl Vol-au-Vents with Croquettes.— Bake twelve vol- au-vents made with puff paste. Have ready a little un- cooked chicken forcemeat mixed with mushrooms cooked and cut up into small pieces. Fill the vol-au-vents with this mixture, put a layer of paste on the top, damping the edges and making them stick together. Cut a hole in the top of Fig. 777. Fowl Vol-au-Vents with Croquettes. each to allow the steam to come through, and bake them in a hot oven for thirty to thirty-five minutes. 'When done, take them out, and pour into them (through the hole pre- viously made) a little rich gravy or brown sauce. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, garnish the centre with giblet croquettes, and serve. See Fig. 777. Fricassee of Fowls.— (1) Prepare a Fowl weighing about 31b., cut it into pieces, and steep the pieces in cold water for an hour; drain, and put them in a large saucepan with one onion, having three cloves stuck in it, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lqt. of water. When the water boils, skim it, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for about half-an-hour with the lid partly off. Take out the pieces of Fowl, drain them, and let them cool for a few minutes in cold water. Keep the liquor in which they were cooked. Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire till smooth, but not brown, add the broth and the liquor in which a pottle of mushrooms have been cooked, and simmer for half-an-hour. Warm the pieces of Fowl in pint of the sauce in a separate pan; beat the yolks of four eggs, add 1 table- spoonful of melted butter, and stir the sauce over the fire till thick, but not boiling; strain the gravy, then add the mushrooms. Put the two back pieces of the Fowl in the middle of a dish, and arrange on them, one above the other, first the feet, then the two pieces of neck, and lastly the pinions ; rest the legs and wings against the sides of the square, and put the pieces of breast on the top. Arrange the mushrooms round the dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Clean two Fowls, skin the breasts, and cut off the fillets, leaving the pinion-bones on; put the remainder of the Fowls, with the exception of the legs, in a saucepan with an onion and bunch of sweet herbs; cover with water and stew till done. Take the small fillets, flatten them 3 c 2628 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. slightly, trim, and form them into rings; place a thin circle of ox-tongue with white of egg on the top of each, and put them in a buttered saute-pan. Press the breast fillets on the table, skin and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon, and put them in another saute-pan with thin layers of fat bacon on the top ; egg-and-breadcrumb the legs, and fry them in hot fat; cook the remainder in their respective pans, and glaze the fillets in the oven. Put a croustade border, about 3in. hig-h, round a dish, put the backs and pinions of the Fowl in the form of a square in the centre, lean alternately the legs and larded fillets against the sides of the square, put the smaller fillets on the top, and a large mushroom in the centre, pour over a little German sauce, and glaze the larded fillets. Mix some mushrooms with more German sauce, pour it in a sauceboat, and serve with the fricassee. (3) Disjoint two Fowls, put them in a saucepan, cover them with warm water, and add salt and peppercorns; when it boils, move it to the side of the fire, and let it remain for twelve minutes. Take out the fillets and breasts, rinse and trim them, and put them in another stewpan. Let the legs continue cooking, and when they are done, trim and put them in the saucepan with the fillets. Mix ilb. of butter with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour; moisten it with some of the Fowl liquor, put it in a saucepan, stir over the fire till boiling-, and then stand it at the side; add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, some pieces of ham, a few mushrooms, and one small onion stuck with two cloves, and simmer for twenty minutes, then skim and reduce. Strain it over the chicken, boil for fifteen minutes, and thicken with the yolks of three eggs, beaten with a little milk. Dish the Fowl; stir a piece of butter and the juice of one lemon in the sauce, strain it over the Fowl, and serve. (4) Singe, draw, and disjoint a Fowl, put the pieces in a stewpan, cover them with white veal stock, and boil; when tender, take out the pieces. Boil an onion, a piece of lemon-peel, and a sprig of thyme in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; when reduced to half its original quantity, mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a little cold milk, add it to the boiling milk, and stir over the fire till thick; then put the pieces of Fowl in, and when they are hot, dish up, and serve. (5) Singe, draw, and cut two Fowls at the joints, and put them in cold water for twenty minutes. Drain, and put them in a saucepan, cover them with broth, add a carrot, sliced up, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and stew till the pieces of Fowl are tender. Take them out, strain the broth, reduce it to half its original quantity, add 1J pints of velout6 sauce, reduce, thicken with a liaison of eggs, and strain through a fine hair sieve into a bain-marie pan. Put the pieces of Fowl in a saucepan, pour in enough sauce to cover them, and let them warm gradually through. Dish them, pour over some of the sauce out of the bain-marie, and serve. (6) Singe and draw two Fowls, cut each into five pieces, take out the spongy substance that is within the loins, blanch the pieces of Fowl, put them with a lump of butter in a stewpan, and fry till brown, then sprinkle a little flour, salt, and pepper over them, dilute with chicken broth, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take out the pieces and put them in another stewpan; skim the sauce, and reduce it; strain it over the Fowl, thicken the fricassee with the yolks of four eggs beaten in a little cream, dish, and serve. (7) Singe, draw, and cut up a Fowl; put the pieces in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 pinch of pepper, and simmer. When tender, take out the Fowl, remove the large bones, and sprinkle the meat with salt, pepper, and flour. Melt a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the pieces of Fowl till brown. Skim and strain the liquor, add 1 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till it begins to boil; take it off, thicken with 1 table-spoonful of butter mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, add salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and stir in a beaten egg. Dish the Fowl, pour the sauce over, and serve. (8) Put a Fowl, singed, drawn, and trussed, into a sauce- pan, cover it with highly-seasoned broth, and simmer over Fowls—continued. a moderate fire till tender. Take out the Fowl, strain the broth, and put it back into the saucepan; cut the Fowl into eight pieces, put them in with the broth, add the liver and gizzard (having previously blanched them), two dozen crayfish-tails, one cooked sweetbread, cut in slices, and 1 handful of morels. Boil these at the side of the fire, with some mushroom trimmings and a bunch of parsley, for half-an-hour. Take the Fowl out, skim, strain, and thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs beaten with a little cream. Arrang-e the Fowl on a dish, pour the sauce over it, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the Fowl, and serve. (9) Draw and wash two Fowls, and dissect them in the following manner: Cut the wings off at the second joint and the legs at the bend of the first joint, next cut off the thigh, then the breast along with the pinion on either side ; then divide the back and breast, cut them, and trim without any waste. Put into a stewpan a carrot and onion sliced, a few bits of celery, two or three cloves, half-a-dozen peppercorns, and a little parsley, pour over these 3 pints of white stock, and put in the pieces of Fowl; let the whole simmer gently until done, which will be about half-an-hour, then strain through a sieve, collecting the liquor in a basin. Trim the Fowls and throw them into cold water, wash them, and drain on a sieve. Put into a stewpan 3oz. of butter, let it melt, add 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix well together, stirring over the fire for three or four minutes so as to cook it; next add the liquor from the Fowls, a little at a time, until all is worked in, then the trimmings of the Fowls and three mushrooms chopped small, and continue boiling for about ten minutes; skim well during that time, and add £ pint of cream. When it is reduced to a creamy consistency, strain it through a tammy-sieve into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Fowls, some button-mushrooms, ham cut up in diamond shapes, and sliced truffles. Cut out some croutons of bread, fry them to a light brown, and put them round the dish, with the fricassee in the centre. It is well just to boil it up for a few minutes before serving, so as to ensure it being quite hot. (10) Pluck and singe a Fowl, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it carefully, and cut it into joints. Cut ^lb. of salted pork into Jin. dice, and peel and chop a medium-sized white onion. Put the chicken, pork, and onion into a sauce- pan, cover them with boiling water, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and j saltspoonful of white pepper, and stew the chicken gently until it is tender. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, add it to the fricassee, and let it boil for two minutes; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and serve at once. (11) Cut a Fowl into joints, and soak them for an hour in cold water, which must be changed two or three times; then drain and dry them carefully in a cloth, and put them into a saucepan of water. As soon as this begins to boil, remove the pieces of Fowl, and pass the liquor through a tammy. Put a lump of butter, some scraped bacon, and a slice of ham in a saucepan over a slow fire ; when quite hot, add the pieces of Fowl, and as soon as they begin to stiffen, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour; take the saucepan off the fire, moisten the fricassee with equal quantities of stock and the liquor in which the Fowl was boiled, season with a bouquet of mixed herbs and an onion stuck with cloves, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then remove the onion and herbs, and if the sauce is sufficiently reduced, stir in the yolks of one or two eggs. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Fricassee of Fowls a l’Americaine.—Boil two Fowls, cut them into twelve pieces, put them into a saucepan with eight minced mushrooms, loz. of cooked salted pork cut into small squares, and ^ pint of German sauce. Warm thoroughly without boiling, and serve with any desired garnish. Fricassee of Fowl a la Bonne Fenune.—Prepare a Fowl, and cut it up as for a fricassee ; cut an onion and a carrot in slices, put them in a large stewpan with 6oz. of butter, and fry for five minutes, stirring continually. Put in the Fowl and 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, and stir over the fire for five minutes longer ; then work in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir for two or three minutes, put inTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 629 Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Powls—continued. three or four tomatoes cut in pieces, and pints of broth. Stir over the fire till boiling', then move the stewpan to the side and simmer for half-an-hour. Take l j pints of mushrooms cut in slices and some chopped parsley and put into the liquor; boil for ten minutes longer, and then serve on a hot dish. Fricassee of Fowls a la Dauphine.— Prepare a Fuicassee of Fowls (No. 9), but instead of putting the pieces back into the sauce after it has been strained, put them upon a dish and stir into the sauce a liaison of the yolks of six eggs and a pat of butter warmed and beaten into them. Mix the liaison in the sauce by stirring it over the fire until it nearly boils, then remove it from the stove, and let it get nearly cold. Dip each of the pieces of Fowl in the sauce, replace them on the dish, and when thoroughly cold roll in breadcrumbs, dip them into beaten eggs, roll them in the breadcrumbs again, and fry a light brown ; then drain them upon a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve Italian sauce in a sauce- boat. Fricassee of Fowls a la Paysanne.—Cut a few onions, carrots, and celery-roots into either small pieces or very thin slices, and put them in a saucepan with a little olive oil, a head of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Care must be taken that the vegetables used are fresh and tender. Cut up two Fowls each into five pieces, put the legs in the saucepan over the vegetables,'sprinkle in cayenne to taste, add a little sauce, and set the pan over a good fire for five minutes or so to cook ; then take the pan off the fire, cover it, and put it in a hot oven, so that the legs will be slowly and thoroughly done. Turn them frequently, and then add the fillets and pieces of the breasts, and a couple of large tomatoes, with the seeds taken out and each one cut into six parts. Cover the pan over again, return it to the oven, and let it remain for fifteen minutes longer : take it out, and place the pieces of chicken-meat in a pile on a dish. Remove the fat from the liquor, take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and put in a few blanched olives; thicken with a little melted glaze, boil up once, add a small quantity of finely-minced tarragon-leaves, pour all over the chicken in the dish, and serve. Fricassee of Fowls a la Heine.—Cut up two Fowls each into twelve pieces of equal size, and place them in a large saucepan with lqt. of cold water on a brisk fire; as soon as it comes to the boil, thoroughly skim, season with salt, pepper, two cloves, and one bay-leaf, also a bouquet garni. Boil slowly for twenty- five minutes, then take out the pieces of Fowl. Put l£oz. of butter into another pan, let it melt on the hot stove, add to it 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and thoroughly mix with a spoon, while slowly cooking without browning. Strain the broth into a bowl through a sieve, return the pieces of chicken to the saucepan, leaving it at the oven door until wanted. Now add, little by little, the broth to the flour, being careful to stir continually until all is added, and boil for two minutes. Have the yolks of three eggs in a bowl with 1 table-spoonful of butter, ^ gill of cold milk, and just a little cayenne (not more than 3- saltspoonful), squeezing in also the juice of half a lemon; mix all well together, and add it to the sauce, stirring continually. Heat the mixture without boiling, and strain it through a sieve over the chicken. Mix well together, adding two truffles and four mushrooms cut into small dice- shaped pieces ; place the whole on a hot dish, arrange paper ruffles at the ends of the legs, and serve with croutons of fried bread round the dish. Fricassee of Fowl with Milk of Almonds.—Disjoint a Fowl, blanch and trim the pieces, and stew them till tender in 1 pint of veloute sauce and ^ pint of chicken broth. Take out the pieces of Fowl, skim the sauce, reduce till half its original quantity, put in the Fowl, and boil all together. Blanch and pound loz. of sweet almonds, adding- 1 teacupful of milk gradually while pounding, and press them through a sieve into a basin. Take the fricassee off the fire, let it stand for two or three minutes to cool a little, stir in the milk of almonds, dish, and serve. Fricassee of Fowls with Rice.—Singe and draw two Fowls, and cut them into five parts; trim the necks, pinions, and backs, cut them up, and soak them in cold water, with the other parts of the Fowls, for fifteen minutes; then drain and put them in a stewpan, cover with warm water, add Fowls—continued. a wineglassful of Madeira, a few mushroom trimmings, and a little salt. When the water boils, skim it carefully. Take the breasts and wings out as soon as the flesh of them is set, and leave the remainder till half done. Take out the legs and other pieces of Fowls, trim them, and put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, two onions, and J-lb. of ham cut in dice. Sprinkle in a little flour, and fry for ten minutes ; add the liquor in which the Fowls were cooked, five or six cloves and peppercorns, a few sprigs of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 gill of Madeira; boil the sauce till reduced to ono-third its original quantity ; add the legs and breasts and one dozen button-mushrooms, and boil for twelve minutes. Skim the sauce, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs beaten with a little cream, but do not let it boil again. Squeeze in a little lemon-juice, add a lump of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Make a mound of boiled rice, turn the fricassee on it, garnish with a border of mush- rooms and cocks’ combs alternately, and serve with the sauce in a tureen. Fricassee of Fowls with Rice Border.—Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, cut them each into five parts—that is, two legs, two fillets, and the breast—break up the backs, chop up the necks and pinions, and put them all into cold water for ten or fifteen minutes. Drain them, put them into a saucepan, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and sufficient warm water to cover, add a few mushroom trimmings, season with salt, and bring the liquor to the boil, skimming fre- quently. When the flesh of the wings and breasts is set, take them out; and when the legs are about lialf-cooked, turn the whole out into a colander. Dip the legs quickly into cold water, put them without the fillets and breasts into another saucepan with a little butter, two small sliced onions, and ^lb. of small pieces of ham; set the pan over the fire, and cook for a few minutes; dust over with flour, pour in the liquor in which they were parboiled, season with cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley; pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, place the saucepan on the fire with the lid on, and boil until the liquor is reduced by one-third; now add the breasts and wings and twelve or fifteen button-mushrooms, and boil for twelve minutes longer; skim off the fat, remove the pan to the side, thicken with the yolks of three eggs, without boiling, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, add a small lump of butter, and a little each of chopped parsley and grated nutmeg. Have ready a fluted border-mould filled with rice, turn it out on a dish, put the fillets in the centre (see Fig 778), pour over a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Fried Fillets of Fowl.—(1) Take the fillets from young birds, cut them along the thick part but not enough to sever them, fill up the cavity with a little cooked sweet herbs, and close the hole by luting it with uncooked forcemeat. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, and put them first into whipped egg, then breadcrumbs, and lastly melted butter ; place them on the fire in a frying-pan, and fry to a good colour, turning them frequently. Place them in a circle on a dish, and fill the centre with small quenelles. Pour over a little brown sauce finished with glaze, and serve more of the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut off some fillets of Fowls, lard each one with four large strips of pork, and sprinkle over pepper and salt to season. Take each one separately, dip it first in egg and then in breadcrumbs, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry for about ten minutes or until done. When allTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 630 For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. are done, place them on a dish, pour 1 table-spoonfnl of Tartar sauce over each, and serve. (3) Remove the fillets from four Fowls, separating the large from the small (or minion); pull out the sinews, flatten them a little with a vegetable-masher or the handle of a knife, and put them in a pan of liquefied butter. Contise the large fillets with truffles cut into small round slices, by making three round cuts or slits in each fillet and pushing the truffles into them, but not far enough to go right through, for in that case the fillets would break and be spoilt. Place them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry them lightly, or underdone, so that they will retain a little of their reddish hue. Keep them hot in the sauce until wanted for table. Put them on a dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fried Fillets of Fowl a la Mode.—Line a stewpan with sliced vegetables, moistening them with oil. Prepare two Fowls, put them in breasts downwards, and pour in J pint of Madeira wine and sufficient broth to cover them. Boil the liquor quickly, then skim it; move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents cook slowly for three hours. When cooked, drain the Fowls, and leave them till cold; then with a sharp knife separate the fillets from the bones of the breasts, and cut each fillet into two equal-sized slices, and beat them slightly. Mix with Jib. of chicken forcemeat 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped truffles, and spread the mixture over the pieces of fillets. Mix together equal quantities of finely-chopped truffles, lean ham, and breadcrumbs. Brush the fillets over with beaten egg, and cover them with the chopped ham mixture. Put 4oz. of butter in a deep frying- pan, and melt it; then put in the fillets and fry them, turning them when done on one side. When the fillets are cooked, lay them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a puree of cucumbers, and serve. Fried Fillets of Fowl with. Mushrooms.—Peel and turn J pottle of white mushrooms, put their trimmings into a stewpan, and the mushrooms into a frying-pan with J tea- cupful of water, a small pat of butter, and a little salt. Boil the mushrooms for three or four minutes, then strain their liquor into the stewpan with the trimmings, add 1 pint of bechamel sauce, and boil it till rather thickly reduced; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, put in the mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, mix in J tea- cupful of milk, and boil it up again. Trim the fillets of a Fowl, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire. When cooked, the fillets should be quite white. Put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fried Fowls.—(1) Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, and cut in joints. Put 1 pint of cream into a frying-pan and place it over a moderate fire until it begins to colour, then put in the chicken, and fry it until the under-side is of a delicate brown. Take out part of the cream, turn the chicken over, season it with pepper, and finish cooking it. When it is done, put it in a hot dish, and pour back into the frying-pan the cream which was taken out; stir it well with what remains in the pan, let it boil once, and serve it with the chicken, sprinkled with salt. Small chicken may be breaded, either whole or in quarters, and fried brown in smoking-hot fat. (2) Select a young bird, and cut off the legs with the meat adjoining, so that that part of the carcase shall be left bare; then chop the breast part from the back, cut the breast in halves, and let the wings be attached to them. Put them in a little cold water for a few minutes, take them out, dry and dust them over with salt and pepper, and put them first into egg and then bread or biscuit-crumbs, taking care to have them well covered. Plunge them into a pan of boiling lard, a few pieces at a time, and fry them evenly, so that the under-side will not burn while the top-side is cooking. After they have fried ten minutes, when they should be done, take them out and put them on a dish on which a little good cream sauce has been previously poured, and serve very hot. (3) Prepare a small Fowl as for boiling. Melt some butter in a saucepan, and fry the Fowl till brown all over ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt on it, put the lid on the saucepan, and stand it in a moderate oven till the Fowl is done. Dish and serve with brown gravy. Fowls—continued. (4) Singe and draw four young Fowls, split each one in halves down the back, cut the legs transversely so that the ends of the bones may be pushed beneath the skin, sprinkle salt over the Fowls, rub in a little flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling, put in the Fowls, adding more' fat when required. As soon as they are browned, drain them, sprinkle with a little more salt, dish on a folded napkin or ornamental paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Tomato or mayonnaise sauce may be served with this disk. (5) Italian.—Pluck, singe, and draw three fat Fowls, cut each one into five parts—that is, two legs, two fillets, and the body—put them into a bowl, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and spices to taste, squeeze over the juice of two lemons, with a little oil, and add also a sliced onion and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Turn the pieces of Fowl in the marinade for an hour, then take them out and drain them, dust them over with flour, dip them singly into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling lard, take them out and drain them. The legs will require longer cooking than the other parts. Have ready a small croustade of bread fried in butter, fix it in the centre of a dish, place the breasts on it and the other parts round it, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 779), and serve with a tureenful of tomato sauce. Fried Fowl a la Marengo.—Cut up a Fowl, and trim- the pieces. Pour plenty of oil in a flat stewpan with a minced clove of garlic and a small bundle of sweet herbs; when boiling, put in the pieces of Fowl, season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry them. When cooked, strain nearly 1 teacupful of oil from the saucepan into a small stewpan, mix with it a moderate quantity each of finely-chopped mush- rooms, shallots, and parsley, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and sufficient clear stock, freed from fat, to make the sauce. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the sauce for about a-quartcr-of-an-kour. Pile the pieces of Fowl on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and some button-mushrooms, and serve. Fried Fowl a la Mercier.—Pluck, clean, and truss a Fowl as if for roasting, sprinkle it well with flour, plunge it into boiling fat to cover it, and fry for fully twenty minutes. Take it out, drain it, cut it into joints, cover them over separately with rich forcemeat with egg beaten up in it, and place them in the oven for a few minutes for the forcemeat to set. In the meantime whip the whites of two or three eggs to a stiff froth, colour this with three colours, leaving a part white, decorate the forcemeat with these, place the pieces of Fowl in the oven for a moment to set, and serve immediately. Fried Fowl a la Vanderbilt.—Prepare and clean a chicken, and, commencing from the neck, ease the skin from the flesh all round, including the legs; then stuff it with veal-and- tongue forcemeat, taking- care not to fill it too full, only over the merry-thought, and to fill all the cavities, making the bird plump and round. Next truss it as if for roasting, then plunge it into boiling fat sufficient to cover it, and fry a golden brown. Serve hot, with piquant sauce, or cold with a salad. Fried Fowl with Chives.—Draw a chicken, disjoint it, wash it well in cold water, then dry it on a cloth. Clean thirtyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. (33 i For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c,, referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. chives, cut the green tops into thin rings, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes. Put some clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire to get hot. Dip the pieces of chicken in flour mixed with a small quantity of pepper and salt, then put them into the pan of hot fat, and fry for ten minutes, turning them occasionally. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan and melt it; drain the chives, wipe them on a towel, put them into the melted butter, and fry them, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. When the pieces of chicken are cooked, take them out of the fat, put them on a piece of thick paper to drain, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, strew the chives over them, and serve hot. Fried Fowl with Okra Gumbo. — Clean a very tender chicken, cut it into joints suitable for frying, season with salt and pepper, and roll them in flour. Wash two dozen pods of okra gumbos and thinly slice them, throwing away the stems. Peel and slice one medium-sized onion, cut ^lb. of ham in lin. dice, and chop fine one small red or green fresh pepper. First fry the chicken and ham brown, putting them into enough smoking-hot lard to half cover them ; then add the okra gumbos, onion, and pepper, and sufficient broth, cold gravy, or boiling water to cover all. Season to taste with salt, and stew gently until both chicken and vegetables are quite tender. If, while cooking, the broth becomes thicker than ordinary gravy, add to it a little boiling water. Fried oysters are sometimes added to the preparation just before serving. A dish of plain boiled rice is usually served with it. This dish is sometimes called Fowl Gumbo. Fried Fowl served with Salted Pork.—Clean and cut up into pieces a very tender chicken, and roll the pieces in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Cut Alb. of fat salted pork into thin slices, put it into a frying-pan, and fry brown ; then take it up, and keep hot. Put the pieces of chicken into the drippings, and fry them brown. When they are done, cover them with boiling water, season the gravy with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and then serve the chicken and fried pork on the same dish, sending the gravy to the table in a sauceboat. Fried Fricassee of Fowl.—Draw a Fowl, disjoint it, blanch the pieces in boiling water, drain them, and stew them in veloute sauce. When the pieces are tender, take them out. | Thicken the sauce with the beaten yolks of two eggs, but do not let it boil, and strain through a fine hair sieve. When cold, dip the pieces of Fowl in the sauce, roll them in bread- crumbs, egg them, and then breadcrumb them again. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when boiling put in the pieces of Fowl, and fry both sides till brown. Dish them on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, put the veloute sauce in a sauceboat, and serve. Fried Marinaded Fowls.—(1) Select a couple of young birds ; singe, draw, and truss them, put them in a saucepan with sufficient broth to half cover them, and boil for about twenty-five minutes; then take them out, drain, and let them cool. Remove the string and skewers with which they were trussed, and cut each bird into five pieces, removing the skin and bones. Put the pieces in a basin, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour over the juice of two lemons. Take each piece separately, dip it into frying- batter, put it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until the batter is dry. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish on a folded napkin, and serve. (2) Choose a couple of fat chickens, draw, and singe them until the flesh is quite firm, then cut them up into ten pieces each as if for fricassee, and put them into an earthenware pot with a little onion, parsley, salt, and pepper. Squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and let them remain for a couple of hours or so, stirring frequently. Beat the whites of two eggs in a basin, dip each piece of Fowl separately into this and then into flour—seeing that every part is well covered — plunge them into a frying-pan of fat not quite boiling, and fry until done. When the meat is of a good brown, but not quite done through, take out the pieces, drain, and put them on a dish with brown sauce under them. Galantine of Fowl.—(1) Take a chicken that has been boned, stuffed, and boiled in a cloth, and whilst still hot in the cloth put it into a plain mould with a weight on the top, and let it remain for a time. When it is cold, take it out of this Fowls—continued. mould and put it into one a little larger, having- previously removed the cloth and wiped the chicken all over with a napkin. Fill the vacant space in the mould with a little warmed aspic jelly, and place it on the ice to set. Dip the mould in a little warm water, wipe it dry, turn out the galantine, and serve. (2) Secure a chicken with plenty of flesh on it, pluck, draw, and singe it, and take out the bones without injuring the flesh. Cut some strips of ham and truffles into pieces of equal length and thickness. Slit the chicken-meat into fillets without injuring the skin, and place them with a few slices of veal in such a way that when they are cut they become chequered. Sprinkle salt, pepper, and spices over, and sew up the back, making it as near as possible its original shape. Have ready some calf’s-foot jelly. Place the chicken in a saucepan, cover it with slices of bacon, season with parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, clove, spice, a few carrots, slices of veal, two or three onions, and a little salt and pepper; then add a little of the jelly and a small quantity of broth. Place the pan on the fire, and boil for a little less than an hour. Take the pan off the fire, and let the chicken cool in the liquor, so that the slices of meat will not stick together through the jelly, for if so it would break on the galantine being cut. It may be served hot with some Spanish sauce poured over it, or cold with jelly, as follows: Beat the whites of three eggs in a basin, and add a little of the chicken liquor and jelly, place them in a saucepan, put this over the fire, and stir until the liquor is quite white ; then let it boil gently. Take it off the fire, and put it on one side with a few hot ashes on the lid ; when it is quite clear strain it through a cloth, let it cool, and serve with the galantine. (3) Remove all the bones from a Fowl, but do not cut off the wings, and turn the thighs inwards. Cut up half an ox- tongue, about lib. of ham, lib. of mushrooms, and lib. of truffles, in slices, add sufficient veal forcemeat, season all with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mix well together, and stuff the Fowl with it. Make it into a good shape, turn the wings under, and tie the Fowl up in a buttered cloth. Slice up a carrot, an onion, and a little celery, and put them in a stewpan with three bay-leaves, eighteen allspice, and a bunch of parsley. Put the galantine into the stewpan, cover it with stock, and simmer for an-hour-and-a-half; when done, take the galantine out of the stewpan, tie the cloth tighter, put something flat and rather heavy upon it, and let it get cold. By having a flat top it looks better. When served, ornament with aspic jelly and other suitable garnishes. (4) Having plucked and cleaned the Fowl, bone and trim it. Chop lib. of lean veal and Jib. of fat bacon, put them in a mortar, and pound well, seasoning moderately with powdered spice and sweet herbs, with salt and pepper to taste; then pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Cut three or four slices of boiled ox-tongue into pieces about lin. square, and cut six truffles into small squares. Lay the Fowl open on the table, season it inside with pepper, salt, and pounded spices, spread the pounded mixture over, and arrange the pieces of tongue and truffles on the top. Roll the Fowl up, bind it tightly, and tie it in a cloth. Put the trimmings of Fowl in a large saucepan with those of the bacon, a calf’s foot cut into pieces, a few pieces of onions and carrots, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, composed of thyme, parsley, marjoram, and a bay-leaf, and add cloves, peppercorns, mace, and salt in moderate proportions. Pour in plenty of cold water, and put the saucepan over the fire until boiling, then move it a little on one side, and simmer for two hours. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and return it to the saucepan. When it boils again, put in the galantine, and boil it gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Great care must be taken not to allow it to boil fast. When cooked, take out the galantine, and let it cool a little ; then remove the cloth, tie the galantine up in a fresh one, put it between two dishes with a moderate weight on the top, and leave until quite cold. Eemove the cloth, and glaze the galantine. Spread an ornamental dish- paper or a folded napkin on a dish, put the galantine on it, garnish with a few bunches of washed and dried parsley, and serve. Galantine of Fowl garnished with Jelly.—Pluck, singe, and thoroughly clean a large Fowl, bone it, and remove the legs and wings. Cut the flesh from the wings into dice, and chop the meat from the legs ; put the latter into a mortar632 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. with. Jib. each of finely-chopped lean veal and bacon, pound to a pulp, season to taste with pepper, salt, and spices, and rub through a sieve ; now add the meat from the wings, 4oz. or 5oz. of parboiled bacon, and three large uncooked truffles, all cut into dice. Lay the Fowl flat on a board with the skin side downwards, season to taste, put in the forcemeat, roll up the galantine, making it as long as possible, Fig. 780. Galantine op Fowl garnished with Jelly. tie it up in a cloth, and boil in stock for one-and-a-half hours. Take it out, remove the cloth, tie it up in a clean one, and let it get cold; then remove this cloth, cut the galantine into slices, brush them over with glaze, and let them get cold and firm. Put a pain-vert in the centre of a dish, on it pile up chopped Fowl jelly, lay the slices of galantine round, garnish the base of the pain-vert with croutons and chopped jelly alternately (see Fig. 780), and serve. Grenade of Chicken Fillets.—Cut off some chicken fillets, lard half of them, and contise the others with truffles. Take a mould with ribs in it like a melon, line it with thin strips of bacon, place a cooked lamb’s sweetbread between the ribs, and put the thickest part of the small inside fillets alternately round the mould to fill up the ribs—first a larded and then a contised one—put in the other fillets, and cover with quenelle forcemeat. Put a thick mixture of vegetables in the centre, and cover that again with more forcemeat. Place the mould in the bain-marie or in the oven, so that the whole will poach at the same time. Turn it out on a dish when done, remove the bacon, salamander the larded fillets, and glaze them. Serve with Spanish sauce in a sauceboat. Grilled Chickens a la Chasseur.—If possible, procure small chickens for this. Split them down the backs, and beat them with a cutlet-bat until flat. Should the birds be large, they must be cut up into joints. Soak them for an hour in olive oil, seasoned with salt and pepper, slices of onion, parsley, and lemon-juice ; sprinkle lightly with breadcrumbs, and cook them on a gridiron ; if cut up into joints, dish them up in the form of a pyramid. Add to some Madeira sauce, an onion sliced and fried, and some chopped ham ; warm it up, pour over the chicken, and serve. Grilled Leg's of Fowls.—Score the legs of two cold cooked Fowls, rub them well with a mixture of salt, mustard, and cayenne, lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Put J breakfast-cupful of well-flavoured gravy in a small saucepan with 1 table- Fig. 781. Grilled Legs of Fowls. spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers, Joz. of butter worked with a little flour, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Stir the sauce over the lire until boiling. Place the legs on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve Fowls—continued. with watercress for garnish (see Fig. 781). This makes a very quickly-prepared breakfast or supper dish. Hamburg Fowl.—Cut off the wings and breasts of two Fowls, rub over them some warm butter, egg-and-breadcrumb them, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with clarified butter. Bone the legs, stuff them with quenelle forcemeat, and braise in a little broth. Pour some tomato sauce over the bottom of a dish, arrange the breasts and legs alternately on it, and serve. Hashed Fowl.—(1) Put the bones and small pieces of any cooked Fowl into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, add a few onions sliced and fried, two carrots, sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan over the fire, and boil until all the goodness is extracted; then strain the liquor, and add a little flour and butter to thicken it. Put the meat from the Fowl into a saucepan, add the gravy, and place the pan on the side of the fire where it will simmer for twenty minutes. Just previous to serving, add the juice of half a lemon. Put the pieces of Fowl-meat on a dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish with triangular croutons of fried bread. (2) Take a couple of chickens that have been either boiled or roasted, and cut off all the flesh in small slices, remove every particle of skin, put them in a saucepan, place on the cover, and set them at the side of the fire to warm; pour a little brown Italian sauce over all, and place the pan where the sauce will simmer without boiling or sticking to the pan. Cut some rather thin slices of bread in the shape of pears, but quite flat, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and fry until they are a light brown colour. Place the pieces of meat on a dish with the fried bread in between them, having previously glazed them, pour the sauce over the meat only, and serve hot. (3) Cut a cold Fowl in pieces, remove the skin and bones, put the meat in a stewpan, cover with melted glaze, and keep them on the side of the stove where they will warm with- out boiling. Brown some finely-chopped onion in a saucepan with a little butter, add a teacupful of vinegar, and reduce to glaze; sprinkle in a little flour, moisten with 1 table-spoonful of broth, and stir over the fire for five or six minutes. Mix this preparation with the Fowl, add a pinch of pepper, stir the hash over the fire till almost boiling', sprinkle a few chopped gherkins over it, and dish. Ivory-white Chicken.—Select two young birds of an equal size and whiteness, draw and singe them, and remove the breast-bones. Mix together a little butter and the juice of half a lemon, with pepper and salt to taste ; put half of it into the inside of each Fowl, and tie them up in a good shape with string. Place them in a saucepan, surround with several layers of fat bacon, cover them with slices of lemon and bacon, pour a little poele over them, and place the pan over a moderate fire; when they have cooked for thirty minutes, they should be quite done and perfectly white. Take them out, drain off all fat, remove the string, put them on a dish, and pour a little veloute sauce over them. Bechamel sauce may be used if preferred. Larded Fillets of Fowl.—Take ten fillets without removing the small or minion fillets, and lard each on the smooth surface with five strips of bacon; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, arrange them in a frying-pan close to- gether on a few slices of bacon, add a little butter, and put them on the fire for two or three minutes, then place the pan in a moderate oven and leave it for five minutes longer. Glaze them with a paste-brush, and cook to a good colour, leaving them a little underdone. Make a mince of black truffles, with a little Madeira added; put it in the centre of a dish, place the fillets in a circle leaning against it, with the sharp-pointed ends uppermost, and serve. Legs of Fowl en. Papillotes.—Bone the legs of some cold cooked Fowls. Mix some chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, with a little liquefied butter, and dip the legs in it; put on each side of them a rasher of cooked fat bacon, wrap them in buttered paper, securing it at the edges, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them to cook both sides alike. When done, dish them, pour over hot beef gravy, garnish with parsley, and serve.633 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Leg's of Fowls a la Perigueux.—Cut off tlie legs of five Fowls, bone them without cutting the skin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, fill them either with cooked chicken forcemeat or quenelle forcemeat mixed with sweet herbs, put them in a saucepan with a little gravy mixed with white wine, place the pan on the fire, and boil gently. Take them out when done, and place between two boards with a weight on them ; when perfectly cold, trim them, and arrange them in a flat saucepan, adding a little of the stock in which they were cooked, reduced to half-glaze; place the pan over a very slow fire, and warm them thoroughly. Take them out, place a paper frill on the small ends of each, and put them on a dish in a circle. Add four or five raw, peeled, and chopped truffles to the liquor, 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and a little boiling brown sauce, and, after standing by the fire a few minutes, pour it all over the stuffed legs, and j serve. Matelote of Fowl. —Cut up one or two Fowls into neat joints, put them over the fire in just sufficient stock to barely cover them, and let them stew gently for thirty minutes. In another stewpan brown 2oz. of butter rolled in flour, mix with it i pint of white wine, put into it a dozen small onions (that have been put into boiling water for ten minutes, next into cold water for ten minutes, and then peeled), the centre part of two carrots without the red part, a parsnip (scraped, washed, and cut into 2in. pieces), a few sprigs of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Cover the stewpan and stew till the Fowl has simmered half-an- hour, then add the Fowl to the vegetables, and simmer for ten minutes. Arrange the Fowl on a hot dish, lay the vege- tables among it, reduce the gravy a little, strain it over the Fowl, and serve hot, garnished with crayfish or pieces of fried eel. Mayonnaise of Fowl.—(1) Cut a cold roasted Fowl into small joints, trim them to shape, lay them on a deep dish, dust over salt and pepper, lay two or three slices of onion on them, also a few cloves, and moisten with tari'agon vinegar and salad-oil. Let the pieces of Fowl \ marinade for two or three hours, turning them occasionally so that all may be flavoured. Wash two or three lettuces, dry them on a cloth, and cut them into fine shreds with the exception of the hearts ; heap these ou a dish, drain, arrange the pieces of Fowl on them, and coat well with mayonnaise sauce. Arrange tastefully round the dish the hearts of the lettuces cut in quarters, quarters of hard- boiled eggs, slices of beetroot, and stoned olives, and serve. (2) Cut the meat of a cold cooked Fowl into dice, put it in a basin, add 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce, and let it soak in that for two hours. Pile it in the middle of a dish, cover with mayonnaise sauce, garnish with cresses, and serve. Mazarine of Fowls. - Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, add a small lump of butter, and season to taste with salt and grated nutmeg. Turn this into a saucepan on the fire, and stir until it thickens ; then add a few chopped mushrooms, stir briskly for a few minutes, and rub through a fine sieve into a basin. Cut off the fillets of three uncooked Fowls, chop them up, pound them in a mortar, rub through a sieve back into the mortar, add a little Fowls—continued. butter and pound it in, season to taste, and lastly moisten with the mushroom liquor, stirring it in a little at a time. Try some of the forcemeat by poaching it in boiling water, and should it be too stiff, add more of the mushroom liquor. Well butter the inside of a shallow charlotte-mould, decorate the bottom and sides with pieces of truffles, fill up with the forcemeat, cover over with a sheet of buttered paper, put the mould in the bain-marie, and poach the contents for forty or forty-five minutes. Turn the forcemeat out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the cavity with small pieces of cooked pickled ox-tongue and breasts of Fowls, pour over a little veloute sauce seasoned with essence of mushrooms, plaee a few cooked truffles round the base of the mazarine (see Fig. 782), and serve with more veloute sauce in a tureen. Minced Fowl a la Polonaise. Mince some pieces of cold Fowl, put them in a stewpan with bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire till hot, but not boiling. Dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Minced Fowl with Egg's.—Bemove the skin from a cold, cooked Fowl, separate the flesh from the bones, and cut it into small squares. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with 11 pints of stock, a small onion stuck with two or three cloves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Boil the stock gently for an hour, then strain it into a clean stew- pan, skim off all the fat, put in the pieces of Fowl, and keep them simmering at the edge of the fire. When the Fowl is tender, mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a small quantity of milk, and stir it into the stock, letting it simmer but not boil. Add 1 teaspoonful of chutney to the sauce, and more seasoning if required, and turn the whole on to a dish ; break carefully over the top as many eggs as will just cover the mince, but do not crowd them, and be very careful not to damage the yolks; strew lightly over a few finely-sifted breadcrumbs, dust over with salt and pepper, and put them in the oven until the eggs are set, but take care not to let them get hard. When ready, take the dish out of the oven, garnish round with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Minced Fowl with Poached Eggs. — Mince the meat of some cold cooked Fowl with cooked tongue and mushrooms, put it into a basin, and place a cloth over it. Butter an open flawn-mould about 5in. in diameter, line it evenly with short-paste, and pinch it with pastry pincers. Spread a sheet of paper over a baking-sheet, stand the flawn on it, line it with buttered paper, fill the inside with flour, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When done, take the crust carefully out of the circle, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Boil 1 breakfast-cupful of bechamel sauce till reduced, mix in gradually a little cream and 4 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the Fowl-mince, and season with grated nutmeg. When thoroughly warmed through, pour it into the crust. Poach some eggs, put them on the mince, garnish with fried pai'sley, and serve. Montglas of Fowls garnished with Jelly. —Fill twenty or so small moulds with aspic jelly, and let them set. Take off all the flesh from a cooked Fowl, cut it into narrow strips, and put them in a saucepan with a third of their bulk each of pickled ox-tongue, truffles, and mushrooms all cut up into pieces. Put 3 or 4 teacupfuls of bechamel sauce into a sauce- pan with a few pieces of uncooked ham, reduce, and stir well, adding gradually a little less than i teacupful of double cream. When ready, remove the pieces of ham, add the sauce to the Fowl mixture, remove the pan from the fire, mix thoroughly,634 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads= Fowls—continued. return the pan to the fire, warm up for a few minutes, and then let it cool. Turn out the mould*, place them in a circle round a dish, put the cold montglas in the centre (see Fig. 783), and serve. Should the montglas be required hot, substitute the jelly with small moulds of Fowl forcemeat. Orleys of Fowl. -Cut off the fillets of two Fowls; when ti'immed, cut each one lengthwise into four or five pieces, put these on a dish with some parsley, two or three slices of onion, a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and the juice of a lemon. In two hours’ time wipe the pieces of Fowl, dip them in batter, and fry in boiling fat till crisp and brown. Drain, then arrange them on a dish covered with a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce. Pain of Fowls a la Dncliesse.—Remove the skin and sinews from ljlb. of white Fowl-meat, chop it finely, put it into a mortar, season to taste, and pound it to a pulp. Pass it through a fine sieve back into the mortar, add to it 5oz. of butter, and 1 teacupful of veloute sauce seasoned with mush- room trimmings, and pound again. Turn the forcemeat into a basin, and stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of raw cream to give it the required consistence. Butter the inside of a plain mould, fill up with the forcemeat, set the mould in the bain- marie, and poach the contents for about three-quarters-of-an- j hour. Turn it out on to a hot dish, mask it with veloute sauce, garnish an attelette with a cock’s comb and two rings of turnip, one cut larger than the other, place it on the top, decorate the base of the pain with slices of tongue (see Fig. | 784), and serve w'ith a sauceboatful of veloute sauce. Pain of Fowls with Jelly.— Cut off ten small or minion fillets of Fowls, trim them, and flatten them slightly. Contise half j of them on their smoothest sides with slices of truffles, dust all the fillets with salt, arrange them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook over a moderate fire, preventing them from curling up whilst cooking-. Take them out, drain off all the fat, and let them cool. Pack a dome-shaped mould in ice ; decorate the plain fillets with Montpellier butter, using- a paper cornet, dip the fillets singly into half-set aspic jelly, arrange them alternately round the mould, mask them with more of the jelly to fill up all the cavities, and fill the hollow with a pain (or cake) of Fowls, well seasoned with tarragon. Let the mould remain packed in ice until the whole is firm. Have ready sis dariole-moulds, mask them with jelly, fill them also with the Fowl pain, and pack in ice. Prepare also a round pain-vert of rice, place this in the centre of a dish, turn the mould out on to it, put in the top an attelette decorated with a cock’s comb, truffle, and a ring cut out of a turnip, arrange the darioles at even distances round the base, with truffles between the spaces (sec Fig. 785), and serve. Panada of Fowl.— (1) Cut off the skin from any cooked Fowl, chop the white meat into small pieces, pound it in a mortar, and add an equal bulk of breadcrumbs and a little Fowls—continued. salt. Mix in good chicken broth until the preparation is like a fluid paste, put it into a saucepan, stir frequently, and boil for ten minutes. It will then be ready for use. (2) Put 4oz. of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with 1 pint of chicken broth, and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Mince the flesh of a cold cooked Fowl, put it in with the crumbs, stir over the fire till the Fowl is hot, add a lump of butter and the beaten yolk of one egg, and use as required. (3) Boil a chicken in water until tender; then drain and skin it, cut off all the white flesh, chop it, put it in a mortar with a small quantity of its cooking-liquor, and pound to a smooth paste. Season the panada with salt, fhe grated peel of one lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and it is ready for use. Fig. 785. Pain of Fowls with Jelly. Pickled Chicken. Pluck and singe a chicken, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it without breaking the intestines, cut it into joints, and boil until quite tender in just enough water to cover it, with 1 teaspoonful of salt, two blades of mace, and 1 teaspoonful each of whole cloves and pepper- corns. When the chicken is tender, remove all the bones, and pack the meat loosely in a jar. To enough of the broth to half fill the jar add an equal quantity of vinegar and all the spice. Let this pickle get scalding hot, then pour it over the chicken. When the pickle is cold, cover the jar. The chicken will be fit to use in about six hours. Potted Fowl.—(1) Pluck and draw a Fowl, skin it, chop it, put it into a stockpot with Iqt. of water and a ham-bone, and stew gently for six hours. Take it out, cut off all the meat, chop it fine or pass it through a mincing-machine, and pound in a mortar, adding a little of the liquor to moisten. Pack it tightly in small pots or jars, cover with clarified butter, and set aside until wanted. (2) Take ^lb. of cold roasted chicken and |lb. of ham, and cut into small piieces, carefully removing the skin. Put the pieces of meat into a mortar, add jib. of butter, and pound to a smooth paste, adding by degrees and pounding into the paste 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, one-third of a grated nutmeg, and a little salt and cayenne. Press it into small glass jars, and pour over them enough butter warmed over the fire till melted to cover the paste in each jar to the depth of jin. This will keep for several days. (3) Cut off about 6oz. of hot roasted Fowl, put it into a mortar with an equal quantity of lean ham, and pound them well, adding jib. of butter. Put the skin and bones of the Fowl in a saucepan with a little of the gravy taken from the pan in which the Fowl was roasted, and season with cayenne, mace, salt, and pepper. Place the pan over a good sharp fire, and boil quickly to reduce the liquor to one-half its original bulk and until it is of a glaze; add it to the pounded meat in the mortar, and beat it well in ; then put all into shallow earthenware jars, press down tightly, and cover over with clarified butter. Pressed Fowl. — Put a Fowl into a saucepan with a very little water, and boil until the bones slip out and the gristly parts are quite soft. Take off the skin, and pull the meat to pieces, mixing the dark - coloured meat with the white.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 635 loi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Skim the fat off the liquor, season with salt, pepper, a little lemon-juice, and celery salt, and reduce to % pint; then mix it in with the meat. Butter a mould, and decorate the bottom and sides with hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and small fancy-shaped pieces of tongue or ham. Pack the meat in tightly, put a weight on the top, and let it remain in a cold place until wanted ; then turn it out and garnish with parsley, lettuce-leaves, celery-sticks, radishes, or beetroots, cut into various shapes. Fulled Fowl.—Remove the skin from a boiled Fowl and dis- joint it, pulling the pieces of meat away from the bone. Take the legs and back and dip them into a little liquefied butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and place them on a gridiron to broil. In the meantime put the meat that was pulled off into a saucepan with a little white sauce, and season with pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a little ground mace. Place the pan on the side of the fire and warm the meat thoroughly, then take it out, put it on a dish, place the legs, &c., over it, and serve with lemons cut into slices, and croutons of fried bread for garnish. Puree of Fowl.—Put some consomme into a saucepan with a couple of Fowls, and braise them. Take them out when they are done, and let them get quite cold. Pass the consomme through a fine sieve or cloth, remove all the fat, and place it back in the saucepan; reduce it, pour in double its bulk of veloute sauce, and continue reducing until it has a firm consistency. Cut off all the meat from the Fowls, removing the skin and fat, chop it up small, and pound in a mortar. When well pounded, add the sauce, mix it in, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. It is then ready for use. Puree of Fowl with Poached Eggs.—Finely mince the white meat from a cold cooked Fowl, put it in a mortar and pound it to a smooth paste, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and mixing with it a sufficient quantity of white sauce to make a rather thick puree; turn this into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until hot. Poach eight fresh eggs, and trim them to an even shape. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, lay the eggs on the top, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Roasted Fowl.—(1) Spread over a Fowl, which has been properly plucked and drawn, sufficient butter to cover it, set it in a Dutch oven, put it in front of a good fire, and baste continually with butter for half-an-hour; five minutes before serving sprinkle a little flour over it. Dish and serve with brown sauce. (2) Singe, draw, and truss a couple of Fowls for roasting, put a small lump of butter, mixed with pepper and salt, in their insides, cover them with buttered paper, and place them a short distance from the fire, basting frequently with butter. When the Fowls are partly done put them nearer the fire, and five minutes before serving take off the buttered paper so that they may brown. Whilst the Fowls are cooking, boil a little gravy-beef with the giblets (washed and cleaned). Dish the Fowls, pour over the gravy, garnish with a border of watercress, and serve. (3) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss a Fowl weighing about 31b., cover it with thin slices of salted fat pork, and place it in a roasting-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of broth. Spread a little butter over the breast, sprinkle with J pinch of salt, and roast it in the oven for fifty minutes, basting frequently. Arrange it on a hot dish, untie it, and garnish with water- cress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve with the Fowl. (4) Singe, draw, and truss three young chickens as for boiling. Cut two onions and one carrot into slices, put them into a saucepan with a little butter and a few cuttings of bacon, and fry them to a good brown ; then add a few sweet herbs’ sprigs of parsley, the trimmings of truffles,, and a little Madeira, and place the pan on the fire to reduce quickly. Take out this mixture and cover the breasts of the Fowls with it, with some thin slices of bacon over to keep it in its place. Tie them round with string, and roast them on a spit for forty-five minutes, basting frequently with the fat that comes from them and a little butter. When they are quite done take them off the spit and remove the string, bacon, and the onion and carrot mixture. Make a border of forcemeat, decorate and poach it; put a three- Fowls—continued. cornered large thick croustade of fried bread, covered with cooked forcemeat, in the centre of the border to support the Fowls. When ready to dish, rest the Fowls, with their tails uppermost, on the border, and leaning against the support, and at their base (on the border) place a few round truffles, also make a circle of them on the top of the croustade, leaning them against the Fowl, and put an attelette skewer dressed with truffles and cocks’ combs in the top of the bread croustade. Pour a little Madeira sauce reduced with truffle cuttings on the dish, glaze the Fowls, and serve more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Roasted Fowls a la Bresse.—Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, truss them, tie slices of fat bacon round, put them on the spit, wrap well-buttered paper round them, and roast in front of a clear fire for fully an hour, basting frequently. When nearly done, remove the paper and bacon, let them brown, dust over with salt, remove them from Fig. 786. Roasted Fowls a la Bresse. the spit, untruss them, and cut each one into five parts. Should the Fowls be very large, the breasts must be cut in halves. Skin the backs, cut them in halves, place them with the breasts in the centre of a dish, arrange the legs round, with the wings on top of them, garnish with truffles, and place a large mushroom on top (see Fig. 786). Serve with bread sauce in one sauceboat and rich gravy in another. Roasted Fowls a la Due de Teck.—Put a couple of Fowls in the oven to roast; take them out when done, cut them into quarters, glaze, and decorate them with butter squeezed through a cornet. Place them on a dish, leaning against a pyramid of cress ; garnish with slices of tongue, covered with hard-boiled eggs finely minced and made into a paste with butter, and rolled up; also garnish with cocks’ combs, truffles, champignons, &c. Pour round a mayonnaise sauce, and serve. Roasted Fowl served a la Harridence.—Prepare and clean a chicken; truss it, and roast in front of the fire. When done and cold, skin it, and cut into joints or fillets. Lightly roast lib. of chestnuts, skin them, rub them through a fine sieve to form a puree, flavour this with grated lemon- peel, and add only sufficient cream to make the puree moist. Carefully remove the bone from each piece of chicken, and fill the cavity with the chestnut mixture. Have ready sufficient aspic jelly, one half coloured red with cochineal and the other yellow ; mask the pieces of chicken with these, and pipe over, with a paper cornet, a preparation made of corn- flour and milk, with a little cream and butter beaten in to flavour, and well seasoned with salt and white pepper. Form the piping over the pieces in crossbars, in each of the squares pipe a white dot, and on each of these dots place a smaller dot of green, made by colouring some of the above sauce with spinach-juice. Place the pieces of Fowl carefully on a dish, garnish with endive and a macedoine of cooked vegetables ; pour over a rich salad dressing, and serve with Tartar sauce in a sauceboat. Mayonnaise sauce may be substituted for the Tartar sauce. Roasted Fowls a la Maryland.—Prepare two small chickens, detaching their legs and wings; lay the birds on a plate, season with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, roll in sifted breadcrumbs, place them in a buttered pan, pour over an ounce of clarified butter, and roast in the oven for eighteen minutes. Pour i pint of cream sauce on to a hot dish, arrange the chickens on top, decorate with six thin slices of broiled bacon, also six small corn fritters, and serve as hot as possible.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 636 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Roasted Fowls a la Neapolitaine.—Draw and truss two Fowls for roasting, coyer the breasts with buttered paper, and | tie them round with string; set them on a spit, neck to neck, and bind the legs tightly round with string. Make two | banks of charcoal, leaving a short space between them (this I should be done on the hearth) ; put some live coals on the | banks of the charcoal, and when it is thoroughly ignited, fix one end of the spit in the wall at the height required, and in such a way that the Fowls will come immediately over the gap between the charcoal ; rest the other end of the spit on a fire-dog with hooks. Baste the Fowls with butter, and turn the spit occasionally. When the Fowls have gradually roasted, dish, and serve with a rich brown gravy. This method of roasting Fowls, an authority tells us, is almost unknown in England, but in Naples it is commonly practised. Roasted Fowl a la Turque.—Pluck and draw a Fowl, rub it over with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and leave it for an hour or two. Put it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Dust over a small quantity of flour, and baste occasionally with the drippings in the pan. When it is nearly cooked, wrap a sheet of thin paper round it, and place it in front of the fire again for fifteen minutes. Put it on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of gravy round, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Roasted Fowl with Chestnut Stuffing'. — Dress a small Fowl, and boil it gently in sufficient water to cover it until it is tender; while it is being boiled, either boil or roast enough chestnuts to fill it. If the nuts are roasted, make a cross cut on each to prevent the bursting of the shell. Remove the shells and skins of the chestnuts, fill the chicken with them, and brown it quickly, either before an open fire or in a hot oven, basting it every five minutes with butter, salt, and pepper, mixed together. Serve as soon as it is brown. Roasted Fowls with Cream Sauce.—Draw two birds, clean them thoroughly, stuff them, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. When they are nearly cooked,- remove them from the spit, rub them well with butter, and roll in plenty of grated breadcrumb. Lay the chickens on a baking-dish, cover them with thin rashers of bacon, and finish cooking them in a brisk oven. Put the birds on a hot dish, garnish them with the rashers of bacon, and serve with a sauceboatful of thick cream sauce. Roasted Fowl with Garlic Sauce (Roumanian).—Put a well-crushed and beaten clove of garlic into a saucepan with | 4oz. of butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper, and stew. Cut up a roasted chicken, put it on a hot dish, pour over the garlic mixture, and serve. Roasted Fowl and Oyster Sauce. — Pluck and draw two Fowls ; finely chop a sufficient quantity of oysters with truffles to fill them, season with chopped parsley, spices, salt, and pepper, and stuff the birds with the mixture ; then truss them, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Blanch twenty or thirty oysters, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, a few table-spoonfuls of chopped herbs, and a small quantity of olive oil, and toss them about over the fire for nearly twenty minutes. Mix 1 wineglassful of white wine and about 1 teacupful of stock with the oysters, put in |oz. of butter kneaded with table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until thick. When the chickens are cooked, remove them from the spit, untruss them, place them on a hot dish, arrange the oysters round with slices of lemon, pour the sauce over, and serve. Salmagundi of Chicken (Spanish).— Cut a cold boiled chicken into joints or pieces, and dip them in a basin with about § teacupful of olive oil, previously mixed with ground spice and salt to taste ; then put them into a saucepan, add a little chopped onion (or garlic) and parsley, pour over sufficient weak stock or liquor from the boiled chicken to slightly moisten, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer until hot, taking care that the liquor does not evaporate so that the meat will be dry. Add to the liquor the yolks of one or two hard-boiled eggs and a little mixed spice; let these simmer for a few minutes with the chicken, then turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve immediately. Fowls—continued. Sandwiches of Cold Roasted Fowl.—Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, trim off the crusts, spread a layer of thinly-carved cold roasted Fowl on half of the slices, and sprinkle a little salt over ; lay the remaining slices of bread over, cut them in threes, and pile them on a folded napkin. Scalloped Fowl.—Put a layer of cold cooked chicken into a shallow dish, then a layer of boiled rice or macaroni and a little tomato sauce, and so on until the dish is full. Sprinkle breadcrumbs over the top, put the dish in the oven, and bake until brown. Serve hot. Smothered Fowl.—For this a Fowl that is too old for cooking any other way can be used. Chop it down the back, put it into a saucepan breast upwards, and pour J pint of boiling water over it ; cover the pan quickly to retain the steam, and place it over a good fire. When it has been cooking for thirty minutes, baste it, rub it well over with warmed butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Baste frequently, covering the pan as soon as done, and con- tinue to boil until quite tender and of a yellow and not of a brown colour. Add a little flour to thicken the gravy, also a little finely-chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Put the Fowl on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Smothered Fowl stuffed with Oysters.—Take a young fat Fowl, singe and draw it, stuff it with oysters, and place it in a covered earthenware jar. Place this jar in a saucepan of warm water on a moderate fire, and cook very gently until done; then take it out, and put the contents on a dish. Beat in a little cream and egg with the gravy, and thicken it with butter and flour; boil it up once more, and pour it over the Fowl. Souffles of Fowl.—(1) Cut off about lib. of cold roasted Fowl, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a hair sieve, and mix with it 1| breakfast-cupfuls of reduced bechamel sauce ; when cold, add the yolks and whites of five eggs beaten separately, Fig. 787. Souffle of Fowl. and a little grated nutmeg. Fill some paper cases with the mixture (see Fig. 787), and bake them for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a hot oven. When done, take them out, arrange on a dish, and serve. (2) Bone two Fowls, remove all the flesh from the skin, and pass it through a mincing machine two or three times ; then rub it through a wire sieve. Use all the meat from the inside of the machine as well, and do not waste any. Put the remainder of the Fowls into a stewpan, just cover with white stock or water, and simmer for some time. Strain off, and then reduce the stock again to about i pint. Put into a mortar a piece of bread panada about the size of an orange and mix the stock with it, also adding the chicken- meat which has been rubbed through the sieve, then four yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a little grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne and salt. Mix all well together, and try a little by putting a piece about the size of a walnut into boiling stock to see if it will set and is tastily seasoned. If this is right, whisk up six whites of eggs to a stiff froth in a basin, and add lightly to the chicken, mixing it well at the same time. It is then ready to serve.637 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. (3) Trim off any skin, sinews, &c., from some cold cooked Fowl, mince tlio meat, put it in a stewpan with 1| breakfast- cupfuls of white sauce, salt and pepper to taste, and stir it over a moderate fire until boiling ; then move it to the side, and stir in lightly the yolks of three eggs whipped to a froth. Thickly butter the interior of a plain mould, strew it with finely-grated breadcrumb, and shake out all that does not adhere to the butter; then pour the mixture into it, leaving room for it to rise, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a hot dish, pour a white sauce round it, and serve. Stewed Fowls.— (1) Cut the feet off two chickens, beat the breast-bones until flat, but without breaking the skin, and dredge them over with flour. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan and make it hot; then put in the chickens and fry them until browned. Cut lib. of gravy-beef and lib. of beef-steak into thin slices, drain the butter out of the pan containing the birds, and cover them with the slices of beef; put in a few slices of carrot and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, a small piece of mace, a dust of pepper, pour over lqt. of boiling water, cover the stewpan closely, and stew the contents for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take out the chickens, but continue boiling the meat until a rich brown gravy is formed. When this gravy is ready, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan again with the chickens and about 1 teacupful of red wine, and keep it over a slow fire until the chickens are hot through again. A few mushrooms may be added if liked, but they must be put in after the gravy is strained. Boil some thin slices of ham until slightly crisped. Put the chickens on a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, garnish with the ham and cut lemons, and serve. (2) Cut a Fowl into convenient pieces, put them in a stewpan with two or three sliced onions and a lump of butter, and fry them until evenly browned ; next put in a few button- mushrooms cut in halves, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, and sufficient stock freed from fat to make the gravy. Season to taste with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of powdered spices, and keep the whole boiling gently at the side of the fire. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Pluck, draw, and singe a Fowl, no matter how old, cut it up into joints, but without removing the skin, put it into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, season with onions, salt, and any other desired flavourings, cover- over the pan, and stew for fully five hours. Turn the whole out into a deep dish, taking care that the meat is well- covered with the liquor, let it remain for a couple of days, and it is then ready for use, such as for curry or hash. (4) Take the skin from a Fowl and cut it into joints; lay the pieces in a stewpan with only enough water to cover, and let them stew slowly till the meat can easily be taken from the bones. Five hours is usually sufficient, but should the Fowl be very old it will take longer. When it is cooked enough, take the meat off the bones, chop it very fine, and add to it a moderate quantity of grated lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, and cayenne; put it with the broth back again into the stewpan, stir it well together, and simmer for five or six minutes. Pour it into a bowl only just large enough to hold it; when perfectly cold, turn it out on a dish, and garnish with parsley. (5) English Style.—Pluck, draw, and singe two fat Fowls, truss them, tie slices of fat bacon over the breasts, put them in a saucepan over pieces of bacon and sliced vegetables, pour over white broth to nearly cover them, place a sheet of buttered paper over all, put on the lid, and cook until the birds are quite done. Boil two ox-tongues in water, and when done, skin them. Place a croustade of fried bread in the centre of a dish. Take out the Fowls and untruss them, arrange one at each end of the dish, leaning against the croustade, arrange the tongues at the sides, fill up the cavities between j the Fowls and tongues with boiled French beans, place boiled potatoes round the dish, and garnish the top of the croustade with an attelette decorated with a truffle and mushroom (see Fig. 788). Strain and thicken the Fowl stock, and serve it in a tureen. (6) German Style.—Clean and prepare two chickens, and cut them into quarters. Put a lump of butter in a lined Fowls—continued. saucepan, melt it, sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir for a minute or two ; then place the pieces of chicken on top, brown them slightly on all sides, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of rich stock, and add a bay-leaf, a shred of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste. Continue to stew until the chicken-moat is quite tender, and then add the strained juice of a lemon; turn the whole on to a dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (7) Hungarian Style.—Pluck, draw, and singe a Fowl, cut it into joints or pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient milk and water in equal parts to moisten, and stew until the flesh is quite tender. In the meantime put 2 break- fast-cupfuls of sweet cream into a saucepan, bring it gently to the boil, and season with J teaspoonful of red pepper and a very little salt. Take the joints or pieces of chicken out of their liquor, drain them as dry as possible, put them into the cream, warm them up, and serve. (8) Scotch Style.—Clean two chickens, cut them up, put them in a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover them, a handful of chopped parsley, and a small piece of mace, and place them over the fire until boiling. Beat six eggs, pour them over the birds, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep them boiling gently until tender. When cooked, arrange the pieces of birds on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor over them, and serve. (9) Spanish Style.—Cut three young birds into joints, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew until the meat easily leaves the bones, adding before cooking six green pepper-pods, a large onion sliced, and a g-ood- sized slice of boiled ham. When done, take out the meat, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, add lqt. of tomatoes, season with salt and cayenne, place the pan on a quick fire, and boil until it is greatly reduced. Boil lqt. of peas and keep them quite hot. Pour the tomato mixture over the Fowls, sprinkle the peas over all, and serve. Stewed stuffed Fowl.—Pluck and draw a Fowl, rub it well with salt, and leave it for a few minutes. Wash the heart, liver, and gizzard of the bird, finely chop them, and put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter. Wash £ break- fast-cupful of rice, put it in with the liver mixture, add i teacupful of pistachios, the same quantity of well-washed currants, salt and pepper, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then moisten it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and continue stirring until the moisture is all absorbed, and the rice partly soft. Stuff the Fowl with the mixture, sew it up, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned; then drain off the butter, moisten to height with clear chicken broth, and keep it boiling gently at the side of the fire until the bird is tender. When cooked, place it on a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Fowls a la Cardinal.- Soak two Fowls in a basin of cold water for about an hour, take them out and let them drain, then lift up the skin from the breasts and legs as much as possible without tearing it, and fill the cavity with forcemeat of Fowl, coloured with lobster spawn to a deep red. Having done this, truss the Fowls as for boiling, cover them with thin layers of fat bacon, put them in a638 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. stewpan with some chopped vegetables, cover with stock, and simmer gently. Care must be taken that they do not boil fast, or the forcemeat will burst the skins of the Fowls, and so look unsightly when served. Dish them up with an ornamental croustade of fried bread in the centre of the dish, garnish with quenelles of Fowls, both red and white, [ glazed truffles, cocks’ combs, crayfish-tails, and button mush- rooms, and on each side of the croustade put a larded j sweetbread. Serve with Cardinal sauce, and garnish with ornamental silver skewers set in the croustade. Stewed stuffed Fowls a la G-odard.—Clean and prepare | two Fowls, stuff them with forcemeat, truss them, put them into a saucepan of white stock, and boil till tender. Place [ a croustade of fried bread in the centre of a dish, untruss the Fowls, and put one at each end of the dish, leaning I against the croustade; garnish with truffles, cocks’ combs, and button-mushrooms, glazing the tr-uffles and washing the | cocks’ combs and mushrooms with white sauce reduced with mushroom liquor. Put three attelettes, decorated with | truffles, mushrooms, and a cock’s comb, in the croustade, and | serve. See Fig. 789. Stewed Fowl a l’lndienne.—Put Jgall. of good veal broth J into a saucepan with a Fowl, singed, drawn, and trussed as [ if to be boiled, and add Joz. each of cinnamon and coriander- seeds, half that quantity each of cloves, mace, peppercorns, | and allspice, and forty or fifty cardamom-seeds all tied up in a muslin bag. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan with lib. of well-washed and dried rice, and fry gently till j of a slight brown colour. Place the pan containing the j Fowl on the fire, and when partly done put in the rice, and cook gently for half-an-hour, or until done. Put the Fowl in the centre of a dish, cover it with rice, and garnish with three onions, cut into slices, sprinkled with flour, and fried to a light brown in boiling fat without breaking the circles or rings, also with six slices of fat bacon rolled and grilled, and two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Place this gar- nish alternately round the dish, that is to say, first egg, then bacon, and then a slice of onion, and serve hot. Stewed Fowl a la Matelote.—Singe, draw, and cut up a Fowl, rub it with butter and flour, and brown it in an , oven. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and | in it fry a carrot, a parsnip, and onion, all cut in slices. Place the Fowl in a stewpan with the vegetables and lqt. of white stock. In the butter in which the vegetables were fried, brown 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir this in with the Fowl; mash the liver and add to the Fowl, with 1 table-spoonful of capers, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour, add Jib. of mushrooms cut into small pieces, and simmer for a-quarter- of-an-hour longer. Dish, garnish with a border of mashed potatoes, and serve. Stewed Fowl a la Milanaise.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Fowl, remove the bones, and dust it over inside with a little salt and pepper. In the meantime, prepare a stuffing as follows : Chop the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs, and mix them with Goz. of minced and pounded raw, lean ham and ljoz. of pork, and pass the mixture through a coarse sieve ; add two shallots, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, a little thyme Fowls—continued. and bay-leaf, all finely chopped, and 2oz. of breadcrumbs; make this into a paste with two eggs, and add a dozen uncooked oysters. Sew the Fowl up to prevent the stuffing from coming out, tie it up in a well-buttered cloth, put it in a saucepan with sufficient boiling stock to cover it, and cook gently on the side of the fire for thirty minutes or so, according to the size of the Fowl. Take it out, and when it is cool remove the cloth, roll the Fowl in flour, dip it in beaten egg, cover it with breadcrumbs, put it in a saucepan with enough boiling- fat to cover it, and fry it for about ten minutes. Put it on a dish with a garnish of fried parsley, and sex-ve with a little veloute sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Fowls a la Regence.—Prepare a stuffing as follows: Wash and peel twelve large truffles, and put them into a saucepan with the cover on. Put half of the trimmings of the truffles into a mortar with Jib. of rasped bacon-fat, pound it well, rub it through a sieve, and mix with it three small truffles, peeled and cut into quarters. Pluck, singe, and draw two fat Fowls, stuff them with the mixture, truss them with their legs in, and tie slices of bacon over them. Line the bottom of a stewpan with pieces of bacon, vege- tables, and sweet herbs, put in the Fowls, pour in clear broth to about three-fourths their height, place the pan on a quick fire, and boil for fully five minutes; then move the pan to less heat, and let the Fowls cook thoroughly. Take them out when done, take off the bacon, and place them in another stewpan. Strain the liquor, skim off the Fig. 790. Stewed Fowls a la Regence. fat, reduce it to half-glaze, pour it over the Fowls, and brown them over the fire, basting frequently; when done, take them out and untruss them. Pour 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine over the truffles, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Take out the truffles, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add double its bulk of the Fowl stock or glaze, put in the remainder of the truffle trimmings, and reduce to half-glaze ; add a little brown sauce, strain into another saucepan, and keep it hot. Heap a puree of potatoes in the centre of a dish, and arrange the Fowls leaning against it; garnish an attelette with a mush- room and truffle, place it at the top of the puree between the Fowls, garnish the dish with the truffles (see Fig. 790), and serve the sauce in a tureen. Stewed Fowls a la Heine.—(1) Prepare and truss a couple of Fowls as for roasting, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and flour over them. Put three slices of pork at the bottom of a saucepan, add two carrots and one large onion cut into slices, and stir over the fire till they begin to brown ; then put in the Fowls with two or three slices of pork over them. Put the saucepan in a hot oven for twenty minutes, then take it out, add about 2qts. of white stock, and cook for two hours in the oven, basting every fifteen minutes, and at the expiration of an hour turning the Fowls over. When done, dish, and serve with the sauce strained over. (2) Clean two chickens, wash them well, truss them for boiling, rub half a lemon over to keep them white, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient stock to cover; add a carrot, an onion with three or four cloves stuck in it, and a little parsley, and simmer for half-an-hour; then take them out, and drain upon a napkin. Take out the skewers, set the chickens side by side in opposite directions on a dish, cover them with supreme sauce, and serve.639 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. Stewed Fowls a la Saliare. — Singe and draw two large Fowls, disjoint them, out tlieir backs in halves, put them into a saucepan with three or four onions, a bunch of parsley, and jib. of butter, and fry till lightly browned ; then sprinkle salt, pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour over them, add a little cayenne, cover with broth, and stir over the fire till boiling ; move the saucepan to the side, put the lid on with hot ashes on the top, and stew till the Fowls are tender. Mince the livers and gizzards of the Fowls with one large onion and about fib. of mutton freed from all fat, sprinkle over a little pepper, salt, pimento, grated ginger, and 1 tea- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, and work it into a mass with an egg; divide this into small equal parts about the size of walnuts, roll them round with floured hands, put the balls in with the Fowls, and boil for a few minutes. When done, arrange the pieces of Fowl in the middle of the dish, garnish with the balls, strain the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Fowl a la Turque.—Draw and clean a Fowl, split it lengthwise in halves, and put it in a saucepan with 21b. or 31b. of the middle of a neck of mutton ; pour in water to cover, season with salt, and keep it gently boiling' at the side of the fire. When the Fowl is about half cooked, take it out of the saucepan, drain it, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter and lib. of onions cut in slices, and fry them till lightly browned, then drain off the butter; boil 1 pint of chick peas till rather soft, skin them, and put them in with the Fowl and onions. Skim and strain the liquor in which the Fowl was boiled, pour it over the Fowl, pour in f teacupful of malt vinegar, and season with salt and pepper. Stew the Fowl at the side of the fire until it is quite cooked and the peas are tender, then place it on a hot dish, pour the liquor, &c., round, and serve. Stewed Fowls a la Villeroi.—Draw and singe a couple of Fowls, remove the breast-bones, stuff them with a mixture of butter, lemon-juice (of half a lemon will be sufficient), and salt and pepper to taste; tie them up in shape with string, and put into a saucepan of water. Pour a little Marshall’s sauce into another saucepan, also 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar ; place this pan on a sharp fire, and let the liquor reduce quickly to half its original bulk, then add 6 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over to taste, add the yolks of two eggs, and mix well. In the meantime, place some slices of lemon and bacon over the Fowls in the saucepan, and put a few slices round them, place the pan over a good fire, and cook for half-an- hour, when the flesh should be done. Place the Fowls on a dish, having previously removed the string and drained them, add a lump of butter to the sauce, work it well, pour it over them, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Asparagus.—Cut up a chicken into quarters, put it into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry it; when it begins to steam, dust over with flour, and fry to a pale brown. Sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a little salt. Break off the tender parts of a couple of bunches of asparagus, well wash them in salted water, boil them slightly in more salted water, and drain them. Put a lump of butter and 1 table-spoonful of cream into a saucepan on a slow fire, place half the asparagus on top, dust with pepper, then arrange the pieces of chicken over it; cover with the remainder of the asparagus, put a few small pieces of butter on top, pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, and stew gently until done. Turn the whole out on a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Cheese.—Singe and draw a fat Fowl, break the breast-bone, and truss it as for boiling. It is better to singe the breast again, as this will set the flesh. Mask the bird inwardly with some chopped ox-marrow, then with a larding-needle lard it carefully with thin strips of bacon, and put it in a large stewpan, covering it with slices of bacon, and onions, carrots and turnips, all sliced; add f pint of broth, put the cover on the stewpan, and boil till the liquid is reduced to glaze, then add sufficient broth to nearly, but not quite, reach the top of the Fowl, and when the liquor boils, stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, put some live coals on the lid, and stew for three-quarters- of-an-hour longer. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of well-washed and drained rice in a stewpan with one onion, chopped and Fowls—continued. fried, and sufficient broth to cover. When the rice has boiled dry, add the stock in which the Fowl was cooked, and simmer till the rice is tender, keeping the Fowl hot in the meantime. When this is done, mix with the rice 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, 4oz. of butter, and i teacupful of tomato sauce. Dish the rice, put the Fowl on it, having cut off the trussing string. Serve hot. Stewed Fowls with Dried Apricots. — Cut two chickens into quarters, fry them slightly in butter with 1 table- spoonful of flour dredged in it, then pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of rich stock, and stew until the flesh is quite tender. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of dried apricots in a saucepan, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, put the lid on the saucepan, and boil them. Sweeten to taste, and afterwards drain them, then put them into the saucepan with the chickens, warm all together, and serve hot. A very small quantity of salt should be added to the chickens while cooking. Stewed Fowl with Dumpling's. - Cut a Fowl into slices suitable for serving, wash the pieces, put them into a deep stewpan, add 3 pints of boiling water, and set over a fire to boil. Put three slices of carrot and the seme of turnip and an onion, cut fine, into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and cook slowly for half-an-liour, stirring frequently ; then take up the vegetables and put them on a sieve, place the sieve in the stewpan with the chicken, and pour some of the broth over the vegetables. Mash the vegetables with the back of a spoon, and rub as much as possible through the sieve. Skim 2 table-spoonfuls of fat from the liquor, put it in the pan in which the vegetables were cooked, and when boiling add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir this over the fire until of a dark brown, then stir it in with the chicken, and simmer all until tender. Season well with pepper and salt. The stew should only simmer while it is cooking, and not boil. About two hours will be sufficient to stew a young chicken. Twelve minutes before serving draw the stewpan forward, and boil up ; then put in some plain dumplings, and cook ten minutes. Take them up, and keep hot while dishing the chicken; then arrange the dumplings round the edge. Stewed Fowl for an Entree.—Pluck and clean a chicken, cut it into joints, dip them into seasoned flour, put them into a pan witli a little butter, and brown; then put them into a saucepan with flavoured brown stock, season with chervil, basil, marjoram, and bay-leaf, also a few small mush- rooms, and stew slowly until done. In the meantime, put 2oz. of cornflour into a saucepan, pour boiling' milk over it, but without making it too moist, and stir well for three minutes over the fire ; then take it off, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and add also 1 table-spoonful of rich cream. Pour it round a dish, smooth the surface, place the chicken on top, pour over the sauce or gravy, and serve, with the mushrooms for garnish. Stewed Fowl with German Sauce. — Pluck and draw a Fowl, put it in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of white stock to cover, and stew gently. When tender, divide the bird into joints, and pile them up high in the centre of a dish. Put 1 pint of clear white stock into a saucepan with a few sliced mushrooms that have been rubbed over with lemon-juice, and boil it until reduced to J pint; then move it to the side of the fire, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk thickened with a few table-spoonfuls of potato-flour and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Season the sauce to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and stir it until thick and hot, but not boiling. Strain the sauce over the Fowl, and leave it until quite cold ; then garnish round the dish with cocks’ combs, a few sprigs of chervil and small croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Stewed Fowls with Green Peas.—Singe and draw two young Fowls, and cut each one into five pieces ; place these in a saucepan with a little butter, two or three small onions, salt and pepper to season, and put the pan over a good brisk fire. When they are of a good colour, add 8oz. of fat bacon cut small, also 1 teacupful of broth, and reduce to glaze. When the liquor is sufficiently reduced, drop in 1^ pints of young green peas, a little salt, and a bunch of parsley. Toss the meat and peas over the fire for a few minutes, then pour640 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sattces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. in another teacupful of broth, place the lid on the pan, and put it on the side of the fire until the peas and chicken-meat J are quite cooked. Take out the meat and put it on a dish; remove the bunch of parsley from the liquor, add a lump of butter to the peas, toss them about in the pan to get well mixed, pour all over the meat, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Mushrooms.—(1) Cut a chicken into pieces, and stew it gently in milk and water in equal parts, with a small quantity of butter added. Put a small lump of | butter into a saucepan on the fire, melt it, add 2 breakfast- cupfuls of button-mushrooms, a seasoning of mace, white pepper, and salt, and stew them. Take out the chicken-meat when done, drain it, put it in the saucepan with the mush- rooms, warm them all up together, and serve. Should more of the sauce be desired, 1 breakfast-cupful of sweet cream may be added to the mushrooms when they are nearly cooked. (2) Fry some fillets of chicken in a little butter, with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and when they are done put them on a dish in the oven to keep warm. Add a little chicken stock to. the butter, thicken with flour, and mix in a few small mushrooms cut in halves. Boil for ten minutes or so, put in the chicken-meat, warm it up thoroughly, and serve. Stewed Fowl and Pork. — Pluck, draw, and singe an old bird, chop off its head, separate the legs from the body, draw out the sinews, stuff the bird with veal stuffing, and truss it. Pour lgall. of water into a saucepan on the fire, season with 3 teaspoonfuls of salt and 1 of pepper, and let the water boil ; then put in the bird, together with all its parts, and add 21b. of salted pork in one piece or cut into quarters, ^lb. of onions, lib. of celery, six peppercorns, and a bouquet of sweet herbs, and boil slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Put 2oz. of butter into a pan, melt it, work in 3oz. of flour, pour in 1 pint of boiling liquor from the Fowl, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. The onions and celery should be cut up into pieces. Boil for about twenty minutes, by which time it should be thick. Place the Fowl and pork on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. The Fowl stock can be used for making either broth or soup. Stewed Fowl and Rice.—(1) Wash 21b. of rice, put it into a saucepan with 2qts. of strong broth, and stew it gently at the side of the fire until tender; then put in with it an onion stuck with three or four cloves and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pluck and draw a large Fowl, and stuff it with a forcemeat mixed with oysters and bacon. Put the Fowl in with the rice and stew it until tender. When cooked, take out the Fowl and keep it hot; stir in quickly with the rice the beaten yolks of three eggs, |lb. of butter, and the strained juice of one lemon. Pour the rice on to a hot deep dish, place the Fowl in the centre, and serve. (2) Draw and truss a Fowl as for boiling, put it in a saucepan, add 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, and a large onion with three cloves stuck in it; cover with water, and stew the Fowl gently for one-and-a-half hours. When done, take out the onion, skim off the fat, pack the rice on a dish, taking care that it is not too sloppy, put the Fowl on it, and serve. (3) Spanish Style.—Clean and prepare a chicken, cut it up in joints, and wipe them well without washing. Put J teacupful of oil or lard into a frying-pan, let it boil, and stir in two cloves of garlic until fried, but without burning; then put in the pieces of chicken, dust them with salt, and stir about in the pan until evenly fried to a golden colour. Now put in a few chopped chillies and one or two small onions, also chopped, and fry them until done, stirring well and fre- quently to prevent burning. Cut four or five large tomatoes into quarters or slices, put them in with the other ingredients, together with 4oz. of cleansed rice, a sprinkling of chopped or dried parsley, and sufficient cold water or weak stock to cover. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, then let it simmer until all the ingredients are quite done, and the grains of the rice separate and not in a pulp. Serve hot. Stewed Fowl and Tarragon Sauce.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Fowl, and truss it as for boiling; stuff it with an onion, 2oz. of butter, and plenty of picked tarragon. Put two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan with a few slices of carrots and onions, the Fowl, a few cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, and salt to taste; moisten Fowls—continued. to height with cold water, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmering gently at the side of the fire until the bird is tender. When cooked, strain a sufficient quantity of the cooking-liquor of the Fowl to make the sauce, and free it from fat. Put a lump of butter about the size of a walnut into a saucepan, and melt it; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and when mixed, pour in the liquor and add plenty of finely-chopped tarragon-leaves. Stir the sauce over the fire, and boil it for ten minutes ; when ready, turn the sauce on to a hot dish, lay the Fowl on it, and serve. Stewed Fowl with Tomatoes.—Cut a Fowl into five pieces, and put the legs, wings, and body part into a flat saucepan with a little oil, two or three small onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of parsley. Place the pan on a moderate fire, and let it remain until the meat is half cooked. Then add the fillets and pieces cut off the breast, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper ; return the pan to the fire, and complete the cooking, giving them a turn over now and again. Take eight or nine large tomatoes, cut them through, remove the seeds, arrange them in a large saucepan with oil, dust them over with salt, and fry first on one side and then on the other ; sprinkle over a little finely-minced parsley, and put the pan over a moderate fire until the tomatoes are cooked. This must be done very gently. Then put them on a dish, and place the pieces of chicken on them. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of good gravy into the saucepan that con- tained the meat, boil for two minutes, pour it over the meat through a conical strainer, and serve. Stewed stuffed Wings of Fowl.—Cut off the wings of three or more Fowls, bone them to the second joint, steep them in water, wipe them, and stuff each one where th ebone has come from with forcemeat. Secure the end of the skin so that the forcemeat will not come out, put them in a stewpan, cover with chicken broth, stew for a short time, dish, and serve. Supreme of Fillets of Fowl. — (1) Select three very fat young birds, clean them well, and scald the legs in hot water. Cut off the fillets, trim and flatten the large ones, stick two of the small fillets together to form one, put them in a saute-pan, cover with melted butter, and sprinkle with a little salt. Fry them lightly on both sides until they are quite firm and done. Drain off the butter from the pan; to the gravy that is left add 3 table-spoonfuls of highly-seasoned bechamel sauce, and hold the pan over the fire, moving it constantly so as not to let the sauce boil. Put the fillets on a dish, place small pieces of fried bread between them, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Split two fat pullets in such a way that the breast and breast-bone will be one piece and the back and legs another. Chop the back and legs into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and boil; then put in the breasts. In an hour’s time, take the breasts out, and set them away till cold. Put a few vegetables into the saucepan containing the liquor and the backs, also a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil the liquor slowly till reduced to half its original quantity; then strain it through a silk sieve into a clean saucepan. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a frying-pan, and stir them over the fire till mixed but not browned; then stir it into the sauce. Boil the liquor gently till reduced to a little less than lqt., keeping it well skimmed; then pour in the liquor from a tin of mushrooms, and continue to boil for a few minutes longer; then mix in loz. of butter, f pint of boiling cream, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a small quantity of salt and cayenne. Cut off the fillets of the breasts of the Fowls, trim them, and make them hot again in chicken broth. Put some boiled asparagus-points in a saucepan with a little butter, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes, being careful not to break them. Drain the fillets, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with the asparagus-points, and serve. (3) Remove the fillets from the breast of two large Fowls, and cut off the legs at the thigh-joints; take the minion fillets, which are found under the large fillets, contise these with truffles cut into rounds about the size of a shilling, lay these in a small saute-pan previously spread with butter, cover with a buttered paper, and put a stewpan lid641 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Fowls—contimied. with a small weight on top, so as to keep them flat while cooking. Pnt the large fillets into a buttered saute-pan, and cook them the same way as Ihe minion ones. Care should be taken that they do not colour. "When done, let them get cold. Next bone the legs, and cut off the feet up to the first joint. Take sufficient chicken forcemeat and mix with it some truffles and lean ham chopped fine, stuff the legs with it, draw the skin up tight at the top, and tie round so as to keep the forcemeat in; twist buttered paper round them, cook in the oven in a deep saute-pan, moisten with 1 pint of stock, and when done let them stand to get cold. Take the minion fillets and trim them, trim the large fillets and split them in three, and cut the legs into long slices, using only the best parts. Dish them up upon a border of mashed potatoes in the form of a circle, so that they overlap each other. Arrange alternately, a fillet first, then a slice of the leg, then ham or tongue, and so on, putting the minion fillets at each corner in such a manner that they will lay up against the other fillets. Serve with supreme sauce round them. Supreme of Fowls. -Cut the meat off the breasts of three Fowls into slices ^in. thick, trim them to one size and to the shape of pears, lay them in a tin dish with plenty of butter, dust them over with salt, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them by until just before they are wanted, when they must be put in the oven and baked. Cut some slices of dressed tongue the same shape, but a little smaller than the cutlets, and warm them in the same manner, but not using so much butter. Cut up the remains of the Fowls into pieces, put them in a stewpan with slices of ham or bacon, trimmings of veal, and half a calf’s-foot; add vegetables, such as onions, carrots, thyme, celery, mushrooms, parsley, marjoram, a bay-leaf, and a few trimmings of truffles. Season to taste with pepper, salt, mace, and cloves, fill up the saucepan with cold water, put on the lid, and simmer gently for three or four hours. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, leave it until cool, and then skim off all the fat. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire until well mixed, and then pour in gradually the above liquor. Stir it over the fire until very hot, but do not let it boil, then move to the side. Procure a small tin each of preserved mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs, and heat them by standing the tins in hot water. Pour some of the above liquor on to a hot, deep dish, pile the cocks’ combs, truffles, and mushrooms in the centre, arrange the pieces of Fowl and tongue round them, and serve. Supreme of Fowls a la Bayard.—The same as for Supreme op Fowls a la Toulouse, only served with 1 pint of Bayard garnishing. Supreme of Fowls a, la Fatti.—The same as for Supreme op Fowls a la Toulouse ; then have a puree of rice for garnishing, place this on the dish, and lay the supreme on top. Decorate the rice with two thinly-sliced truffles, pour over 1 gill of perigueux sauce, and serve with paper ruffles as before. Supreme of Fowls a la Heine.—Prepared as for Supreme or Fowls a la Toulouse, but substitute 1 pint of sauce a la Reine for the other garnishing. Supreme of Fowls a la Rothschild.—Have ready a chicken supreme prepared as for a la Toulouse, but stuffing with pur4e of chestnuts instead of the chicken forcemeat. Mince very fine two truffles, mix them with 1 pint of hot puree of chestnuts, arrange the puree on a hot dish, place six croutons of fried bread over this, arrange the supreme over the croutons, and decorate the top of each, right in the centre, with one cooked mushroom. Supreme of Fowls a la Toulouse.—Singe, draw, and wipe three Fowls, and remove the skin from the breasts ; make an incision on top of the breast-bone from end to end, and with a sharp knife carefully cut off the entire breast on each side, including the small wing-bone, which must not be separated. Under each breast will be found a small fillet; carefully remove it, and place on a dish for future use. With a sharp knife make an incision 3in. m length by lin. in depth in each breast at the thinner end, season the insides with salt and pepper equally distributed, and stuff them with 2oz. of chicken forcemeat, mixed with two truffles and four mushrooms, also finely sliced. Butter a copper saute- Fowls—continued. pan, and gently lay in the six breasts. Take each small fillet, and press it gently with the fingers to give it shape; then make six small slanting incisions on top of each, and insert in these slices of truffle, cut with a tube -jin. in diameter. Slightly moisten the top of each breast with water, carefully arrange one fillet on top of each length- wise, and sprinkle over a little clarified butter, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the supreme, | wineglassful of Madeira wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover with the lid, and place it in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour 1 pint of hot Toulouse garnishing on a hot dish, take out the supreme from the oven, neatly arrange it over the garnishing, adjust paper ruffles on each wing-bone, and serve immediately. Timbale of Fowls. -Select a couple of Fowls of medium size, singe and draw them, and remove the pinions and leg-bones. Cut each bird into five pieces, not including the backs, which are likewise cut in halves, break the thick bones in the legs, take them out, and put the legs into a saucepan with the wings, 8oz. of soaked ham cut up small, 3 table-spoonfuls of the melted fat of bacon, a bunch of parsley, and a few sweet herbs. Set the pan over a sharp fire, and add a little seasoning; when they are done and of a light colour, take the chicken and ham out with a skimmer, and put them into another saucepan to keep warm on the side of the fire. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced shallot and onion into the saucepan with the liquor, fry them, and then add fifteen mushrooms cut in quarters. Place the pan over the fire again, and when the moisture is reduced, add half-a-dozen chicken’s livers, scalded and cut in halves, 4 table-spoonfuls of white wine (or Madeira), and the same quantity of melted glaze. Return the chicken into this saucepan, toss them in the sauce, removing the pan from the fire whilst so doing, sprinkle a little parsley over them, and let them stand for a little while. In the meantime line a timbale-mould with short- paste and mask it with a layer of raw minced veal or pork, with 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Put in the pieces of chicken, mixing in with them the ham, livers, and mushrooms, spread the top over with more of the raw mince, put a layer of paste on the top, fold the paste over from the sides, put the timbale on a baking-sheet, and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. Take it out when it is done, turn it out, make a small hole in the top, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of gravy, previously reduced with a little Madeira or white wine, and serve quite hot. Timbale of Fowls a la Dubois.—Cut up a couple of chickens into five pieces (limbs and body), put these into a saucepan with a little finely-chopped fat bacon, sprinkle salt and pepper over the meat, set the pan on a good fire, and fry. When the pieces are partly done and coloured, add 6oz. of ham cut into small pieces, and let these cook a little ; then add six Fig. 791. Timbale of Fowls. raw truffles cut up into thick slices, also the chicken’s livers previously scalded, and the trimmings of the truffles. Warm thoroughly, and pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine; put the pieces of Fowl in a basin, reduce the liquor to a glaze, and pour it over them. Line a timbale-mould with short- paste, and mask the bottom and sides with a layer of minced 3 D642 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i-c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fowls—continued. uncooked pork mixed with a few table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs ; then put in the chicken meat and truffles, keeping them packed as closely together as possible, spread a layer of forcemeat oyer it and then a layer of the paste, fix to the sides of the timbale, and put it into a moderate oven to bake for an hour. When done, turn it out on to a hot dish ; make a small hole in the top and pour in a little of the chicken gravy reduced with a little wine, pour a little sauce round the bottom of the dish, and serve with a g-arnish of forcemeat balls and truffles. See Fig. 791. Timbales of Fowls with Truffles.—Bono two Fowls, cut them up into pieces, and lard them with thin fillets of bacon. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, then put in the pieces of Fowl, with a few mushrooms, two or three shallots, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and | pint of white wine; season to taste with salt and spices, and stew gently at the side of the fire until the meat is tender. Boil a few chopped truffles in white wine, mix them with the Fowl, &c., and let the mixture get cool. Butter three timbale-moulds and line them with rolls or strips of paste, letting each roll firmly overlap the other; Fig. 792. Timbales of Fowls with Truffles. next line the moulds with small veal forcemeat balls, making them come nearly to the top. Fill the hollows of the moulds with the prepared mixture, and cover with a flat of paste; trim it round the edges, moisten and press them together, and make a small hole in the centre of each. Put the tim- bales in the oven, making a wall of ashes round them to keep them in position, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, stuff up the holes with a piece of paste, and turn the whole out on to a hot dish ; make a small hole in the centre, pour in a small quantity of reduced gravy, and serve, with forcemeat balls and truffles for garnish (see Fig. 792). Truffled Fowl.—Select a fat Fowl, bone it, and put it on a table with the fillets cut off the breasts of two other Fowls; cut some large slits in them all, and put pieces of pork cut into thin slips in the cuts. Chop lqt. of truffles into slices, and put them where they will show in the white meat when it is cut; sprinkle well with pepper, salt, powdered thyme, and a little finely-grated nutmeg, and put the pieces of the breasts in the thinnest parts of the Fowl ; draw the two sides together, sew them up into shapes as near the original as possible, wrap the Fowl in a cloth, tie it round with string, and boil it in salted broth for two hours. Take it out, put it in a mould or shape with a weight on the top, and let it cool. When perfectly cold, remove the string and cloth, put it on a dish, and cut it up into slices; or it may be put into a mould and filled up with aspic jelly, or masked with liquefied butter. Turban of Fowls a la Cleveland.—Singe and draw two Fowls, wipe them well, bone them, and cut them into quarters; then put them into a sautc-pan with loz. of butter, salt, and pepper, and wineglassful of Madeira wine, and boil slowly for ten minutes. Take 1 breakfast-cupful of chicken force- meat, and add to it one chopped truffle, three chopped mush- rooms, and ioz. of minced cooked tongue, and stir well. Put this forcemeat on a dish, lay the pieces of chicken on top, crown-shaped, and decorate with twelve whole mushrooms and two thinly-sliced truffles. To the chicken gravy add % pint of Spanish sauce, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, and a small pat of fresh butter. Pour this immediately over the Fowls, put the dish in the oven, and cook very slowly for ten minutes. Squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and serve with six heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Fowls—continued. Turban of Fowl Fillets.—Select five or six chickens and remove their fillets : beat the latter with a knife for a while to make them tender, take off the outer skin, and with a larding-needle lard them on one side only with fat bacon. Make a little quenelle forcemeat with the flesh from the legs, pass it through a sieve, and to one-third of its bulk add the same quantity of mushroom puree. Take a well-buttered cylindrical dome-shaped mould, put the remainder of the forcemeat into it, and poach it in the bain-marie ; when done, turn it out on to a previously cooked flat of paste, cut about the size of an entree dish. Let this cool, then cover it over with a layer of the uncooked forcemeat, and put the fillets against it, having their larded side outside. Wrap some strips of bacon round the parts that are not larded, and thus the turban is formed. Stand it in a hot oven, and let it bake for from twelve to fifteen minutes. When quite done, take it out, moisten the larded parts with a little gravy, and with a salamander brown it on the outside ; then take off the strips of bacon, wipe off the fat, and slip the turban on to a round dish. Decorate it with a border of nouille paste, and put it in a warm place for a few minutes. Garnish the centre of the cylinder of the turban with some cocks’ combs and truffles, masked with a little brown sauce reduced with white wine, and serve with some more sauce in a sauceboat. Vinaigrette of Chicken.—Prepare a jelly with one cow-heel and lqt. of water, boil slowly for ten hours, and strain. Let the jelly stand for a day, then skim off all the grease and remove the sediment, put it into a saucepan with a seasoning- of lemon-peel, mace, allspice, salt, pepper, a shred of garlic, and two bay-leaves, pour in 1 wineglassful each of sherry and vinegar, and gradually melt the jelly. Should it not be clear enough, clarify with the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and strain through a jelly-bag until clear. Now add a little caramel to give it a dark colour, pour a little at the bottom of a mould, and let it get stiff ; then arrange over it in several thin layers the white flesh of a chicken, three hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, a pickled gherkin also cut in slices, and a few small pieces or slices of cooked ox-tongue or ham, with a little more of the jelly poured over the layers. When the mould is full, pack it in ice, lot it get quite firm, turn it out, and serve. The above ingredients should be arranged in at least throe layers. Vol-au-Vent of Chicken.—Cut into dice 1V pints of cooked chicken-meat, and season with salt and pepper. Make a cream sauce, and season that also with salt and pepper, adding | tea- spoonful each of onion-juice and made mustard. Heat the chicken in this, and with it fill some vol-au-vent cases. Fowl's Giblets.—The practice of trussing Fowls for roasting, with the liver and gizzard tucked under the wings, should be considered obsolete—both are dried up and spoiled by such cooking. It is usual now to reserve the giblets for other purposes, such as are given here- under. They should be thoroughly cleansed by washing, and the gizzard cut open and the inside skin peeled off. Fowl’s Giblet Pie.—Take some stewed chicken giblets and put them into a pie-dish with the meat from the necks and pinions of the Fowls. Place them in in layers, with slices of fat bacon between, until the dish is full, pour in a little good gravy, cover the dish with a crust of mashed potatoes, and put it in the oven to bake for half-an-hour. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets. —Wash the giblets from four or five Fowls, dry them on a cloth, sprinkle them over with flour, and fry them in a frying-pan with a little butter. Take the gizzards, cut them into slices, put them into the saucepan with the giblets, add six onions cut up small and fried slightly, and a little bunch of sweet herbs, then pour sufficient stock to cover them, and season with salt and pepper. Place the pan on a very moderate fire where it will simmer for about an hour. When the giblets are perfectly done, take them out, drain them, pass the gravy through a strainer, and remove all the fat. Rub the onions through a fine sieve and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of flour, then stir them into the gravy, boil up again, add the giblets, let them remain until perfectly hot, and serve. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets a l’Anglaise.—Brown in a saucepan three minced giblets with a sliced onion, moisten with lqt. of white broth, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, a643 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fowls—continued. bunch of sweet herbs, J wineglassful of Madeira wine, 1 tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for about thirty minutes, and when done serve with one chopped hard-boiled egg. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets a l’Ecossaise.—As for Stewed Fowl’s Giblets with Rice, substituting .V breakfast-cupful of oatmeal for rice ten minutes before serving. Stewed Fowl’s Giblets with Pearl Barley.—As for Stewed Fowl’s Giblets with Rice, substituting pearl barley for rice forty minutes before serving. Stewed Fowl's Giblets with Rice.—Brown the giblets of three Fowls in a saucepan with Joz. of fat and one sliced onion, moisten with lqt. of white broth, adding one thinly- sliced carrot, half a sliced turnip, 1 tabic-spoonful of well- washed rice, i table-spoonful of salt, and a very little pepper. Stew for thirty minutes, then put in a sliced tomato, cook for five minutes longer, and servo, adding 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Fowl’s Livers.—It lias been said very truly by artistic cooks that the liver of any bird is a rare-bit that may be made into so many dainty dishes that it should be carefully washed and preserved for such purposes as the following: Forcemeat of Fowl’s Livers.—Choose two sound livers, carefully remove the gall, and then boil them for five minutes. Take them out, chop them, put them in a mortar with Jib. of grated cooked ham without fat, three or four mushrooms or truffles, a shallot, J teaspoonful of parsley finely minced, a little nutmeg, salt and pepper. Pound well, mix in 3oz. of butter, and it is ready for use. Fowl's Livers en Brochette.—Clean the livers of eighteen Fowls by cutting away the galls, dry them well with a cloth, season with salt and pepper, and cut each liver into halves. In the meantime cut off six slices of lean bacon, broil them for one minute, and then cut each slice into six pieces. Take six silver skewers (attelettes), run one through the centre of the liver, next a piece of bacon, and continue in this way until the six skewers are filled with the pieces of liver and bacon. Roll them in 1 table-spoonful of oil, dip them into sifted breadcrumbs, and put them on a moderate fire to broil for five minutes on each side. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour over J gill of maitre-d'hotcl butter, and serve with a little watercress round the dish for garnish. Fowl’s-Liver Cake.—Steep eight livers in cold water to whiten them and remove all gall stains, then put them in a , saucepan with 4oz. of fat ham, loz. of lean cooked ham, 1 teacupful of sherry, half a bay-leaf, a little mace, pepper, and salt, put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer for two hours. When done, the livers, &c., should be nearly dry, but not browned. Mash them to a paste. Soak sufficient crumb of rolls in water to make 4oz. of bread panada, and squeeze it, then mix with it one beaten egg, add it to the pounded livers, and pass the preparation through a sieve. Cut up one pickled sheep’s tongue, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and two or three mushrooms, and mix them with the paste. Lay some thin slices of fat pork at the bottom of a mould, put in the liver, put some more slices of fat pork on the top, cover all with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a shallow pan of water, put it in the oven, and bake. When serving, turn it out of the mould, free it from fat, and decorate it with aspic jelly. Fowl’s Livers in Cases.—Remove the gall and trim off all the green part surrounding eight fat livers, plunge them into boiling water, and poach them without boiling; drain them, pare them slightly, and cut each in halves. Put a few more livers in a frying-pan with the trimmings of the other livers and a little lard, and fry them ; when cooled, put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of fat bacon finely chopped, pound them, sprinklo in pepper, salt, and spices, pass it through a sieve, and then mix with it 2 table- spoonfuls of quenelle forcemeat, 2 table-spoonfuls each of sweet herbs and onions, 4 table-spoonfuls each of truffles and mushrooms, all finely chopped; mix with this a few table- spoonfuls of melted glaze; select eight either square or round small paper cases, oil them, and line them inside with half of the above mixture. Fry the livers in a little butter and Fowls—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine over a quick fire. When the wine is reduced, take out the livers, and put them on a plate; dip a paste-brush in melted glaze, and brush them over with it. Cut each of the halves of livers in halves again, put two pieces in each of the cases, cover them with a layer of forcemeat, put a piece of paper dipped in oil over each, then stand the cases on a baking-sheet, and warm them at the entrance of a moderate oven. Put the cases of liver on a hot dish, pour a little reduced brown sauce over each, and serve. Fowl’s Livers for Garnish. — Blanch the livers of four Fowls in boiling water for ten minutes, and put them in a saucepan with a little gravy, adding 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, a bunch of thyme, a little parsley, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Place the pan over a good fire, cook for fifteen minutes, drain them, and they are ready for use. Fowl’s-Liver Omelet.—Partially boil the liver, then out it into small pieces, put them in a frying-pan with butter, two or three button mushrooms, a shallot, and 1 table-spoonful of parsley, all finely minced ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry them for ten minutes. Turn them into a basin, and when cold beat in throe eggs. Put a lump of butter in an omelet-pan, and when melted put in the omelet, and fry it. Serve it on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Fowl’s Livers en Papillotes. —Wash and blanch eight livers in boiling water, drain, and split them. Put 2 table- spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed ; then pour in slowly 1 teacupful of cold water and 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze; add 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped ham, season with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire till boiling. Mask the livers with the preparation, put them in papillotes the same as cutlets, lay them in a baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Pile some croutons of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the livers round them, and serve at once. Fowl’s-Liver-and-Parsley Sauce.—Wash and boil a Fowl’s liver; when tender, drain and mince it very finely, mix with it some finely-chopped parsley, then stir it into a saucepan containing J pint of warmed butter. After it has boiled for a short time, it is ready to serve with poultry. Fowl’s-Liver Sauce.—Wash and boil two livers in salted water till they are tender. Drain and chop them into moderate-sized pieces, put them in 1 pint of melted butter with 2 table-spoonful each of ketchup and pickle vinegar; add pepper and salt to taste, give it a boil up, and it is then ready to serve. Fowl’s-Livers Sautes.—Procure the livers of six Fowls, and wash and wipe them thoroughly. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter iu a frying-pan, and when hot add a large slice of onion, frying it slowly for ten minutes ; take it out, and put in the livers, well sprinkled with salt, pepper, and flour, and fry them for ten minutes; then sprinkle over a little more flour, and cook them for two or three minutes longer. Pour in 1 teacupful of stock, 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and lemon-juice, add 1 pinch of sugar, and stir it over the fire till boiling ; then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve immediately. Fowl’s Livers Stewed a l’ltalienne.— The same as for Fowl’s Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine, but adding J tcacupful of cooked fine herbs five minutes before serving. Fowl's Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine. —Cut away the gall from the livers of ten or twelve Fowls, dry them with a cloth, and fry them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, on a brisk fire, for five minutes; season with salt and pepper, add J wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for one minute, then moisten with J pint of Spanish sauce, and cook again for three minutes; add Joz. of butter and the juice of half a lemon, tossing the pan without letting the contents boil. Pour the whole on a hot dish, and serve with six croutons of bread for garnish. Fowl’s Livers Stewed with Mushrooms.—The same as for Fowl’s Livers Stewed in Madeira Wine, but adding six minced mushrooms three minutes before serving. 3 d 2644 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <f c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, F owls—continu ed. Fowl’s-Liver Stuffing for Birds. — Chop .Vlb. of fat Fowl’s Livers into small pieces, and put them in a frying-pan with two finely-chopped shallots, 2oz. of fat ham also chopped, a little thyme, grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a small lump of butter. Toss it about over the fire till partly cooked, then take it off, and leave it till cold. Pound in a mortar, and it is then ready for use. Terrine of Fowl’s Livers.—Put four or five large truffles, peeled and cut into dice, in a basin with 6oz. of cooked, fat bacon, also cut into dice, and the livers of ten or twelve fat Fowls ; sprinkle salt, spices, and powdered sweet herbs over them, and 1 table-spoonful of Madeira. Cut half a calf’s | liver in thin slices, fry it in a little melted bacon-fat with 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallots and the trimmings of the truffles, and sprinkle pepper and salt over them. When the slices of liver are well set, pour in 1 teacupful of Madeira; keep it on the fire for two or three minutes, then take it | off. When cool, pound the liver. Chop and pound an equal quantity of fat bacon, mix it with the pounded liver, season well with pepper, salt, and mixed spices, and pass all through a sieve. Line a terrine at the bottom and all round the sides with thin slices of fat bacon, spread over some of the liver forcemeat, fill the dish with the livers, truffles, and bacon, and alternate layers of the forcemeat, put some thin rashers of bacon on the top, put on the lid, stand it in a baking-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, basting occasionally with the fat that runs over into the baking-dish underneath. When cooked, take the terrine out, take off the lid, put a wooden weight on the top, and let it cool. When ready to serve, turn the preparation out of the terrine, and cut it up. Clean the terrine, put it on a dish, fill it with the cut-up pieces again, arranging them so that they come dome-shaped to the top, and arrange tastefully round it some croutons of aspic jelly. FRANGIPANE.—The usually recognised term for this is “ creme Frangipane,” a pasty cream, as being a cream flavoured with Frangipane, an extract of the Frangipane plumeria; and although the original flavouring may have been changed for others, such as vanilla, almond, and pistachios, Frangipane continues to be the title of the cream. The following receipts have been contributed from a very reliable source: (1) Beat four eggs in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 pint of cream. When well mixed, add a little sugar and salt. Rasp a lump of sugar on the rind of a lemon, scraping it into the mixture. Place the pan on a slow fire, and stir continually to prevent the contents sticking to the | pan. Let it remain for fifteen minutes, add a dozen each of | blanched sweet and bitter almonds, previously pounded in a mortar with a little water, and stir well. The Frangipane is then ready, and is generally used for cakes, custards, tarts, &c. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan with loz. of sugar, and boil it; then mix in loz. of flour mixed up j with another ounce of sugar, stir well, and cook for about five minutes. Add ljoz. of butter and one egg slightly beaten, I stir well again, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover over with the lid, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Let the mixture cool, add a little flavouring of essence of lemon, and it is then ready for use. Frangipane Flawn.—Blanch 6oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, finely shred them, and mix them with some Fran- gipane. Prepare |lb. of puff paste, roll it out about lOin. or llin. in diameter, gather up the sides with the hands, making Frangipane—continued. them 2in. in height, and crimp them, and lay the paste in a greased flawn ring. Cut some small fancy-shaped ornaments out of some of the same paste, and if the ring is not used decorate the side of the flawn with it, externally, moistening with a little water to make them adhere. Bind some buttered paper carefully round the flawn, fill it with the Frangipane and almonds, setting half-almonds over the surface, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, remove the paper, sprinkle the paste with water, then dredge it well with caster sugar, and glaze it under a salamander. Serve either hot or cold on an ornamental dish-paper on a dish (see Fig. 793). Frangipane Paste.—(1) Put Jib. of flour into a basin, add sufficient milk to moisten it, turn it into a saucepan over a slow fire, and beat it well until mixed. Turn it back into the basin, and work in six well-beaten eggs, stirring well with the hand until it is nearly cold. It is then ready for use. It is a capital paste for all kinds of tartlets. (2) Moisten tjlb. of flour with a small quantity of milk, and stir it over the fire till pretty hot; then remove it from the fire, stir in six or seven eggs, and continue to stir till the paste is cold enough to be worked with the hand. Frangipane Paste made with Potatoes. — Steam some potatoes, peel them, pound them in a mortar, beat into them eggs and butter according to the quantity of potatoes, and flavour with salt, pounded bitter macaroons, a little grated citron, and sugar. The sugar may be omitted. Frangipane Shape.—Crush three or four macaroons, put them in a basin, and mix with them 3oz. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, and three well-beaten eggs. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, set it on the fire until on the point of boiling, then stir it gradually into the above ingredients. Turn the mixture into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but do not let it boil, or the eg'gs will curdle. Take the mixture off the fire, flavour it with a few drops of any kind of essence, turn it into a mould, leave it until cooled, then pack it in ice until wanted to serve. Frangipane Tartlets.—Peel and blanch 3oz. of almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound them to a paste with 3oz. of sugar, adding one egg. Mix in 2oz. of warmed butter, j table- spoonful of ground cinnamon, six drops of orange-flower water, another egg, and 1 wineglassful of rum, and stir well for ten minutes. Have ready six tartlet-moulds lined with puff paste, fill them with the preparation, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. When done, put them to cool, and glaze the surfaces with thin syrup and rum. Arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve. FRANKFORT PUDDING.—See Puddings. FRANKFORT QUENELLES.—See Quenelles. FRANKFORT SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. FRASCATI CAKE.—See Cakes. FREEZERS AND FREEZING. —The range and variation of temperature included in culinary processes extend from freezing to incineration; that is, virtually, from the lowest to the highest degree to which culinary ingredients can be subjected without destruction or anni- hilation. Under this heading attention is drawn to the lower temperature, which is, as all the world knows, accountable for some of the luxuries of the table. See Ices. The art of Freezing has occupied the attention of confectioners for many years, with the result that the process has been brought to perfection. Freezing renders fluids solid by converting their watery particles into ice. This, however, can only be done by subjecting the mass to a temperature some degrees below the freezing-point of water, and it may be effected through the influence of freezing-mixtures which give a lower temperature than ice (32deg. Fahr., Odeg. Cent.), or by evaporation. A little alcoholic perfume spread over the forehead causes a refreshing coldness by its rapid evaporation, and upon this principle machines have been invented which, for the manufacture of ice, have given satis-645 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Freezers and Freezing—continued. factory results. For culinary purposes an apparatus is used which consists of a pewter freezing-pot (see Fig. 794) and a wooden bucket (see Fig. 795), to contain the freezing material, into which the freezing-pot is plunged. The ingredients to be frozen are placed in the freezing- pot, and this is put into the bucket containing a mixture of ice and salt pounded to- gether in the proportion of two parts of ice or snow to one part of salt (chloride of sodium). The dissolving of the salt and ice causes an extraordinary reduction of temperature, which brings the mass in the freezing-pot to a lower temperature than 32deg. At this temperature the watery particles solidify; it is therefore necessary to keep the contents intimately blended by working either with a spatula (see Fig. 796) or patent revolving mixer (see Fig. 797). Several very excellent machines have been invented to freeze “ ices ” with the least possible delay, the principle being the same, of a freezing-pot fitted inside with a removable mixer, worked direct by means of a raised or concealed Fig. 794. Freezing-pot (Mathews and Son). Fig. 795. Wooden Bucket (Mathews and Son). crank (see Fig. 797), or as shown in section (see Fig. 798). They are also made with a twin action for working two pots at the same time, or two kinds of ices in the Fig. 796. Spatula, Spaddle, or Spattle. same freezing-mixture. This number might be extended to three, four, or more; but experience shows that two are quite as many as can be conveniently worked by one action. The object of the mixer is to save the laborious use of the spatula, some sort of continuous stirring being imperative during the freezing, lest the water of the contents freezes out from the cream, sugar, or flavouring. Some excellent receipts and instructions for making Ices will be found under that heading. Freezers and Freezing—continued. A very excellent Freezing-machine, invented by C. F. Kirchhof, combines all the improved features of the most Fig. 797. Patent Freezer (Mathews and Son). perfect ice-making machines, combined with one that is peculiar to itself. It is covered in as a safe, and thus preserves the ice from too rapidly melting, the result being an extraordinary saving where ices are frequently or continually in demand. Mr. C. Reichert, on the staff of this Encyclopaedia (14, Rock Street, Finsbury Park, London), is the sole agent for the sale of these freezing- Fig. 798. Patent Freezer (Temple and Crook). machines, they being highly recommended by confectioners either for large quantities or small, hand-working or steam power. FREEZING MIXTURES.-Beyond those which consist of pounded ice, or snow and salt, very few are known to confectioners. The following, from experiments made by Professor Walker, are known to give reliable results: 1 | Snow or pounded ice | Common salt i Snow or pounded ice 2-! Common salt ( Sal ammoniac Parts. 2 l 1 f Reduces Temperature to — 5deg. to —12deg.G46 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauers, ic., referred to, sec under their special heads. Freezing Mixtures—continued. Reduces r<l L ’ Temperature Snow or pounded ice 12 3 Common salt 5 to —25deg. Nitrate of ammonia 5 4 Snow ! Concentrated hydrochloric acid 8 5 + 32deg. to —27deg. 5 ' Snow ( Crystallised chloride of calcium 2 3 to —50deg. , j Sal ammoniac 5 I 6 Nitrate of potassa 5 > + 50deg. to + lOdeg. 1 Water 16 s 7 j Nitrate of ammonia ( Water 1 1 j + 50deg. to + 4deg. ( Nitrate of ammonia 1 1 8 Car'bonate of soda 1 . + 50deg. to + 7deg. ( Water 1 s ( Phosphate of soda 9 ) 9 - Nitrate of ammonia 0 + 50deg. to — 21deg. ( Diluted nitrous acid 4 s 10 ( Sulphate of soda j Hydrochloric acid 8 5 ^ + 50deg. to — Odeg. 1 11 ( Snow | Diluted nitrous acid 3 2 j + Odeg. to —46deg. ( Snow 2 ) 12 < Sulphuric acid ... 1 l —20deg. to —60deg. 1 Water 1 j 13 | Snow j Crystallised chloride of calcium 1 2 J + Odeg. to —66deg. 14 ) Snow | Crystallised chloride of calcium 1 3 | + 40deg. to -—73deg. j Snow 8 ) 15 < Sulphuric acid 5 v —68deg. to —91deg. (Water 5 f The signs + and — signify that the degrees are above ( + ) or below (—) zero. FRENCH BEANS.—See Beans. FRENCH BEERS.—These differ in no degree from British, German, or Austrian beers. FRENCH CHARLOTTE.—See Charlottes. FRENCH CIDER.—This is in no way superior to well-made British cider, although much larger quantities are made in France than in any other country; and, indeed, by excellent judges it is pronounced greatly inferior—other juices than apple occasionally finding their way into the fermenting-tun. FRENCH CUSTARD.—See Custards. FRENCH G ALETTES.—See Galettes. FRENCH GAUFFRES.—Sec Waffles. FRENCH GINGERBREAD.—See Gingerbread. FRENCH MUFFINS.-See Muffins. FRENCH PANCAKES—See Pancakes. FRENCH PICKLES.—See Pickles. FRENCH PLUMS.—See Prunes. FRENCH ROLLS.—See Bread. FRENCH RUSKS.—See Rusks. FRENCH SAUCE—See Sauces. FRENCH SOUFFLES.—See Souffles. FRENCH SOUPS.—See Soups. FRENCH WINES.—See Wines. FRESH-WATER FISH.—See Fish. FRIAR’S OMELET.—See Omelets. FRICADELLES.—These are also erroneously called Fricadilloes and Fricatelles. They are hashed meat made into balls and fried. The following are good receipts for their preparation, and they can be formed either into Fricadelles—continued. balls or egg shapes, or cut out in any design, like ovals, rounds, or cutlets. (1) Mince any cold cooked meat, and add a slice or so of onion, also finely chopped, and, if the meat is very lean, a slice or two of bacon may be added ; season with salt, pepper, sage, thyme, lemon-juice, and parsley, using a little of each, and add a quarter as much breadcrumbs or boiled rice as there is meat: beat up one egg and add it, with sufficient water or stock to Fin. 799. Fricadelles. form a paste. Make this into balls or egg shapes, put them into a frying-pan with butter or dripping, and fry to a brown colour; or they may be dipped in breadcrumbs, brushed over with egg, then dipped in crumbs again, and fried in boiling fat. When done, drain, and serve on a folded napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 799). (2) Finely mince some cold meat, and season it to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Make a light paste, roll it out rather thinly, spread the mince thickly all over it, and fold the paste over ; then roll it out smoothly with the rolling-pin, and cut it out with a tin cutter Fig. 800. Fricadelles. in the shape of cutlets. Melt a lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put the Fricadelles in it, and fry them until brown on both sides. Drain them for a few minutes on a sheet of paper, arrange them neatly on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper spread over a hot dish, and serve. See Fig. 800. (3) Finely chop lj-lb. of veal and lib. of fat bacon; soak lib. of crumb of bread in water, then squeeze it well, and mix it with the minced meats, seasoning with salt, pepper, the juice and grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs. Work the mixture thoroughly, and blend with it sufficient well-beaten eggs to make it consistent. Butter a baking-dish that will hold double the quantity of the above mixture, put in it the mixture, and bake it. In an hour’s time mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with a little more than J- pint of gravy or broth, pour it over the Fricadelle, and bake for some time longer. When the Fricadelle is cooked, strain off the gravy that is on the top, mix it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, pour it again over the meat, and put it in the oven for two or three minutes longer to set the eggs. Servo hot. FRICANDEAU. — Of this peculiar word some amusing suggestions are made by Kettner. He says: “ Fricandeau is a Provencal word meaning something nice. Fricandela is a nice girl; Fric, or Frique (allied to the English freak), meant brisk; Fricand, dainty; Fricot, a dainty dish; and here is Fricandeau belongingTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 647 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fricandeau—continued. to the same series, and applied especially to a dainty dish of veal, which was invented by one of the cooks of Pope Leo X.” Perhaps this is about the best definition that can be given to it; but it is difficult to connect this word with the Fricassee. Receipts for its preparation will be found under Veal and Turkeys. FRICASSEE. — A sort of stew, the word being- derived from the French fricasser—to waste or stew down. Fricasseur is a term of contempt for a bad cook. Numerous receipts for Fricassee will be found under special headings. FRIEDRICHS HALL.—The name of certain famous mineral waters supposed to be obtained from a spring at a place of that name. See Aerated Waters. FRIJOLES.—The name given in Central America to black beans, which form a very important article of food amongst the inhabitants. See Beans. FRITTERS (Fr. Beignets ; Ger. Krapfen ; Ital. Fritelle; Sp. Fritillas).—The English term is evidently derived from the French frire—to fry, hence it is only correct to assume that all Fritters are necessarily fried. They are described as a sort of pancake, containing fruit, sweetmeats, poultry, meat, or fish; but modern customs have extended the signification almost indefi- nitely. Numerous receipts for these will be found under special headings. Aiguebelle Fritters. - Peel and boil five large potatoes, put them into a basin, and mash them with 8oz. of butter, a little Gruyere cheese, salt and pepper to taste, and work all into a paste by adding ten well-beaten eggs. Form the mixture into round flats like biscuits, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Baked Fritters with Custard. -Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of potato-flour in a basin, and mix slowly with it 1 pint of milk ; beat up the yolks of six eggs, stir them in with the milk, sweeten with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla or any other flavouring. Stand the basin in a stewpan containing boiling water, and stir the contents over the fire until thickened. When ready, move the custard from the fire, and leave it until cold. Mix gradually with 1 pint of boiling water in a saucepan over the fire as much flour as will make a thick paste, stirring it continually with a wooden spoon; add saltspoonful of salt, loz. of butter, and sugar to taste, also the grated peel of one lemon. When well thickened, remove the paste from the fire, and leave it until a little cooled ; then work in gradually four well-beaten eggs. Thickly butter a baking-dish, drop the paste on it in small quantities, leaving a short space between them, and put them in a moderate oven ; when browned, take them out, dust them over with caster sugar, and return to the oven for a minute or two to glaze. When ready, make an incision under each Fritter, insert in it some of the custard, pile them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Bell Fritters.—(1) Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with Goz. of sugar ; mix with them about ^ saltspoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and lqt. of milk; then beat in, in small quantities and alternately, Jib. of self-raising- flour and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a froth; continue beating for three or four minutes after all the ingredients are mixed. Drop table-spoonfuls of this batter into boiling lard, fry them brown, drain on a warm sieve, and when all arc done put them on a hot dish and sift powdered sugar over. Serve hot with lemon sauce. (2) Set 1 pint of water over the fire with ^oz. of butter, and stir into it gradually ^lb. of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt. When stirred quite smooth, pour it into a bowl and let it cool. Beat six eggs very light, yolks and whites separately, and work them into the paste. Make the paste up into small balls, drop them into plenty of boiling lard, and fry a light brown. Serve hot. Berryville Fritters.—Mix together ooz. of flour, lqt. of milk, eight well-beaten eggs, and four large apples, peeled, ' Fritters—continued. cored, and chopped fine. Fry in table-spoonfuls in plenty of boiling lard. Serve very hot with powdered white sugar. Break-of-Day Fritters.—Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour to a paste with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet wine and 1 table- spoonful of brandy. If the wine and brandy are not sufficient to mix the flour, add some warm milk. Mix into this paste a little chopped candied orange- and lemon-peel and citron, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Beat these well into the paste, drop it in lumps through a wide tin funnel into boiling lard, and fry. Serve with powdered white sugar sprinkled over. Danish Fritters.—Thoroughly beat five eggs; put 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 table-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and 2oz. of finely-shred mixed candied peel; then stir in the beaten eggs and sufficient milk to bring it to the consistency of a stiff batter. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt it slightly, move the pan about to well cover the bottom with it, then put in the batter, and cook it over a slow fire, occasionally passing a knife between the batter and the pan to prevent it sticking. Take the paste out of the frying-pan, put it on a plate, cut it into 3in. lengths, then cut them across at each end to make them rise when fried ; put a large lump of butter in the frying-pan, put in the pieces of paste again, and fry them till lightly browned. When cooked, drain the Fritters, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, dust over caster sugar, and serve. EligTish Fritters.— Beat seven eggs and stir in by degrees i pint of milk; throw in 1 saltspoonful of salt and work in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, or use a smaller quantity of flour and some cold stewed apples. A table-spoonful of yeast is an improvement. When the batter is mixed, let it stand for at least an hour. Fry in lumps in plenty of boiling- lard, and serve hot with wine and sugar. French Fritters.—(1) Mix lib. of sifted flour to a paste with 1 pint of milk. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, and as soon as it boils mix it with the paste of flour and milk ; stir it over the fire till it boils, let it boil ten minutes, stirring constantly, pour it then into a good-sized bowl, and let it cool. Beat the yolks and whites of ten eggs separately till very light (the whites should be a stiff froth), add and stir them into the batter when it is cool, 1 table- spoonful at a time, stirring in also 1 teaspoonful of salt. Take for each Fritter nearly 1 table-spoonful of batter, drop them into boiling lard sufficient to cover them, and fry to a light brown. Lift them out with a skimmer, and drain on hot paper in a colander. Serve hot with sweet sauce. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan with the grated rind of a large lemon, 2oz. of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a small quantity of salt. Place the saucepan over the fire, and when the water boils stir in gradually with a wooden sjpoon sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Remove the paste from the fire, let it cool a little, then mix in the yolks of six and the whites of three well- beaten eggs. In a few minutes’ time stir in the remaining whites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and let the batter rest for two hours. Next put a large piece of lard into a flat stewpan over the fire, and when boiling drop the batter into it in dessert-spoonfuls; as each Fritter is browned, take it out of the fat and put it on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an648 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. referred to, sec under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.. Fritters—continued. ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Fritters on it, sift caster sugar over them, garnish with quarters of lemon (see Fig. 801), and serve without delay. Fritters a la Bonne Femme.—Put loz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, melt it, and mix in 2oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and 1 tumblerful of water. When the liquor boils, sift in sufficient potato-floirr to make a stiff paste, and stir well until the mixture adheres to the saucepan. Turn the pre- paration into a basin, let it cool, but not get cold, add the yolks of six egg's, singly, beating each one in for about four minutes before another one is added. When all the yolks are worked in, spread the mixture on a dish, keeping it about lin. in thickness, and let it get cold. Take it up in small lumps about the size of walnuts, drop them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and shake the pan well until the Fritters are swollen and of a golden colour. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Fritter Cakes.—Warm 4oz. of butter in a basin, then beat it up with three eggs and ^ pint of milk, put in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and sift in sufficient flour to make a soft flexible paste. Dredge flour over a board, turn the paste on it, and work with the hands for a few minutes; then roll it out, and cut it into diamond-shaped cakes. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the cakes, and fry them over a gentle fire until lightly coloured. Drain the cakes to free them as much as possible from the fat, arrange them in a pile on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. See Fig. 802. Fritters flavoured with Vanilla.—Infuse half a vanilla bean in 1 breakfast-crrpful of boiling milk in a saucepan, and reduce it to half its original quantity; remove the bean and put in loz. of butter. Bring it to the boil, add 2oz. of sifted flour, and with a spoon stir briskly, to form a paste so stiff that it will leave the sides of the saucepan. Turn it into a basin, and add loz. of powdered sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and § saltspoonful of salt. Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, mix with it J table-spoonful of whipped cream, and add it to the paste. Boll the paste on a floured board, sprinkle lightly with flour, cut out pieces the size of walnuts, take them up with a skimmer, drop them into very hot but not boiling fat, and cook quickly for three minutes, or until they are of a golden colour; arrange them upon a folded napkin, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over. German Carnival Fritters.—Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast in 1 teacupful of warm milk, then mix with it two well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 2oz. of warmed butter, and a small quantity of salt. Beat these ingredients well, then mix in gradually lib. of flour ; more milk can be added if the dough is too stiff. Beat the dough thoroughly with a wooden spoon, and leave it covered with a cloth in a warm place until well risen. Put a good-sized lump, of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in small quantities of the dough, about the size of walnuts, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain the Fritters when cooked, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, dust caster sugar over, and serve. German Fritters.—(1) Cut some slices of bread about £in. in thickness, trim off the crusts, and cut the bread into finger- lengths about lin. thick. Pour over them two eggs, beaten in Fritters—continued. a little milk, and let them soak. Melt a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, put in the pieces of bread, and fry them. When browned, take them out of the fat and put them on a sheet of paper to drain for a minute or two ; roll them in caster Fig. 803. German Fritters. sugar, arrange tastefully on a dish with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and serve. See Fig. 803. (2) Pare, core, and cut into slices six large apples. Put a pint of brandy into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of pounded sugar and a little cinnamon ; place the slices of apple in this liquor, and set them over a gentle fire, stirring often, but taking care not to break them. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling lard or butter; drain the apples, dip them in flour, and plunge them into the frying-pan. Sprinkle some sugar over a dish, set it near the fire to melt, lay in the apples piled up, strew sugar over them, glaze with a hot salamander, and serve. Hollow Fritters.—Put 1 pint of water in a saucepan with the peel of one lemon, saltspoonful of salt, and 1 dessert- spoonful of moist sugar, and simmer for a few minutes ; mix fib. of flour with sufficient water to make a smooth paste ; strain the water in which the peel has been boiled, mix it gradually with the flour, turn all into the saucepan, and stir over the fire till thick enough for the spoon to stand in it without further support. Turn it into a basin, stir in slowly four beaten eggs, and let it remain till cold. Put some butter in a frying-pan; when boiling, take up 1 dessert-spoonful at the time of the paste, and fry them ; when the Fritters are puffed and browned, take them out, drain, and dish them, sifting caster sugar over before serving. Indian Fritters.—(1) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into a stiff paste with boiling water, keeping it quite smooth ; when the paste has somewhat cooled, break into it the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, then beat all well together. Put a good-sized lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then drop in a dessert- spoonful at a time of the batter. Fry until browned all over and well risen, then take them out of the fat, and drain them for a minute on a sheet of paper. Mask half of the Fritters with marmalade, and lay the others over them. Garnish a dish with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, arrange the Fritters on it, dust a small quantity of caster sugar over them, and serve. (2) Goolgoola.—Put lib. of flour into a saucepan, mix in a little yeast and milk, and add sufficient water to make a thick paste. Pour in gradually lib. of sugar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk (less the quantity already used), stir well over the fire, add six small sticks of cinnamon, and continue to stir until the mixture is again thick. Bemove the pan from the fire, let the preparation cool, form it into small balls, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. Take them out, drain, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Italian Fritters.—(1) Put i pint of stock in a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling strew in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiffish paste, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Leave the paste until nearly cold, then pound it in a mortar with two eggs. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling drop in the mixture in table-spoonfuls, and fry them a pale golden colour. When cooked, drain the Fritters on a sheet of paper, then pile them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve.ARTISTIC SUGAR WORK. 1.—Lilt Stand, for holding preserved fruits or sweets. Stems and leaves in boiled Sugar, flowers in sugar paste. Lilies round base of stand holding sweetmeats. 3.—Wheat-sheaf Stand, made of boiled Sugar, with band of sugar paste; sickle and rake of caramel. Filled with preserved fruits and sweetmeats. Surrounded by smaller sheaves filled with preserved cherries. Base made of boiled Sugar straw. 2.—Norse Battle-ship, made of boiled Sugar, sugar paste, and piping. Vessel filled with fruits arranged as a cargo. 4.—Peacock Vase, holding preserved fruits. Bodies and tails of birds moulded in boiled Sugar, finished off with coloured piping. Stand and vase of boiled Sugar piped over in design.649 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fritters—continued. (2) Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick from a stale loaf, cut them into rounds with a paste-cutter, put some butter in a frying-pan, and when it boils, fry the bread in it to a golden colour ; take them out, let them drain on paper till dry, and arrange on a dish. Have ready some hot orange- or lemon-syrup, pour it over the Fritters, and serve. Italian Fritters with Cheese. — Grate 4oz. of Parmesan cheese, mix with it half a cooked and cooled calf’s brain, and a salpiyon prepared with 8oz. of cold lean ham; shape this mixture into little balls of an equal size, flour them, dip them into batter, and fry in boiling fat. When well and evenly browned, take them out, drain, and pile them on a folded napkin laid on a dish. Garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Light Fritters.—Scald 1 pint of milk and pour it over ooz. of sifted breadcrumbs, beat it to a soft batter, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and salt and nutmeg to taste, and then mix in smoothly 3 dessert-spoonfuls of self-raising flour, and whisk in lightly and quickly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Fry the batter in table-spoonfuls in boiling lard, lay the Fritters on kitchen-paper to drain, and serve them hot with sweet sauce. Marie Louise Fritters.—To Urbain Dubois we are indebted for these beautiful Fritters. Make a sponge with a little flour and 1 teacupful of milk in which loz. of German yeast has been dissolved ; set it in a warm place, and when risen to double its original volume knead it; add the remainder of lib. of flour and Jib. of warmed butter, and when these are well worked in, add gradually six beaten eggs. Pound 1 teacupful of sugar with little more than J teacupful of peeled and blanched Jordan almonds, add 1 pinch of salt, and mix these with the paste ; put it into a basin, cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place ; break it, let it rise again twice, breaking each time. Roll the paste out thin on a floured table, and cut it in twenty-six rounds with a plain tin cutter. Fig. 801. Marie Louise Fritters. Strain and reduce some raspberry jam till firm, put a small quantity in the centres of half the rounds, cover them with the other half, moistening slightly round the edges to make the paste layers adhere. Cut the rounds again with the same tin cutter so as to trim off irregularities. Spread a floured cloth on a baking-tin, put the Fritters on, and let them rise. Put plenty of lard in a frying-pan, and when just melted but not boiling, drop half of the Fritters into it, and keep them covered for three or four minutes ; take the cover off, allow the fat to cool a little, take the Fritters out, and proceed with the frying of the remainder. When nicely browned they are done. Drain them of the fat, sprinkle caster sugar over the tops, pass a salamander over to give a glaze, and serve on a folded napkin laid over a dish (see Fig. 804). Mixed Fritters.—Have ready and separately cooked, brains, sweetbreads, calf’s feet, calf’s head, and artichokes. Divide them into pieces of equal size, brush them over with egg, breadcrumb or flour them, put them into a pan of hot butter, and fry brown. Put the pieces of meat on a dish, add a little chopped parsley and lemon-juice to the butter, and serve all together. Mogador Fritters.—Put a thick piece of ox-marrow into water to soak, take it out, put it in a saucepan with a little broth that has not been skimmed, then place the pan on the fire, and boil for two minutes; remove the pan from the fire, and let it cool for fifteen minutes or so. Take out the marrow, drain on a napkin, and cut it transversely into rather thin slices; dust these over with cayenne and salt, take them Fritters—continued. up separately, dip them into brown sauce reduced with a little wine, and glaze. Drain off the sauce, put the slices of marrow on some cooked and finely-chopped truffles, and cover them completely with them. Place them on a thin baking-sheet, put it on the ice, and let them remain until wanted. Take them up, dip each one into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until the batter is of a light colour. Drain them, put them in a pile on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve very hot. Portuguese Fritters.—Cut six slices of bread Jin. thick, remove the crusts, and shape the crumb in rounds the size of the top of a tumbler, with which they can be marked out. Lay them in a dish, with J pint of milk, but do not allow the milk to cover them; let them soak for half-an-hour, then lift them, and drain for ten minutes on the side of the dish. Dip the slices of bread in well-beaten eggs, and fry them in butter to a rich brown. Drain them, and serve on a folded napkin with crushed loaf sugar sifted over. A squeeze of lemon- juice is a great improvement. Fuff Fritters.—(1) Mix smoothly with 1 pint of milk 8 table- spoonfuls of flour. Put it into a well-greased pan, set it over the fire, and scald it, stirring all the time. Take it from the fire, and when cold mix in fourteen well-beaten eggs. Beat the eggs and batter well together till quite smooth and light, and then, taking 1 table-spoonful for a Fritter, drop them into plenty of boiling lard and fry a light brown. Drain on paper, and serve at once. (2) Put 1 pint of water in a saucepan, add 3 large table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 7oz. of butter ; when boiling, add quickly lOoz. of flour, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes, till the flour is cooked ; turn it into a basin, and when slightly cooled beat in six eggs, one at a time, and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla flavouring. Shape the paste into Fritters, and fry them lightly in boiling lard over a slow fire; take them out, drain, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Regal Fritters.—Pour 1J pints of new milk into a saucepan on the fire, bring it gently to the boil, and add f pint of port wine. Remove from the fire, let it remain for six or eight minutes, then skim off the curd, put it into a basin, and with a whisk beat in five eggs, a seasoning of grated nutmeg, 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and sufficient sifted flour to form a stiffish batter. Put lib. or so of butter or lard into a frying-pan, boil it, drop in table-spoonfuls of the batter at a time, fry them, take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, garnish with sweetmeats, and serve. Spanish Fritters.—(1) Cut the crumb of a French roll into slices of an equal size ; beat an egg with some cream, and flavour it with sugar, powdered cinnamon, and grated nutmeg; pour the cream over the slices, and leave them till well soaked. When ready, put the Fritters into a frying- pan with butter, and fry them till browned. Stir 1 teaspoonful of flour over the fire with 4oz. of butter till well mixed, then pour in gradually J pint of milk, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar ; continue stirring the sauce till thick, then take it off the fire, and mix 1 wineglassful of sherry and J wineglassful of brandy in it. Drain the Fritters, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut some slices of bread, remove the crusts, and cut the slices into any shapes liked ; moisten each with a few drops of brandy. Beat up two eggs with J pint of milk, and mix in smoothly sufficient flour to make a batter. Pour the batter over the pieces of bread, and leave them for an hour. Melt a lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put in the pieces of bread, and fry them a pale golden brown. Drain them when taken out of the fat, spread a small quantity of any kind of preserve over them, arrange on a hot dish garnished with a dish-paper or folded napkin, and serve hot. (3) Mix together lib. of flour, a well-beaten egg, 1 table- spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make a dough rather softer than for muffins. Cover it with a cloth, set it in a warm place, and let it stand for several hours. When it has risen well, work into it 2oz. of butter warmed till very soft. Make the dough up into small balls, fry them a light brown in plenty of boiling oil or lard, drain them on paper, and serve hot with sweet sauce. (4) Trim the crust off a stale French roll, cut the crumb into four slices, and soak them in a little milk. Prepare650 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fritters—continued. a batter with two eggs, £ pint of milk, and sufficient flonr to make it of the proper thickness. Put a few table-spoonfuls of oil in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire until the smoke rises ; then dip the soaked slices of roll in the batter, put them in the oil, and fry them for two or threx minutes; drain them, dip them again in the batter, and fry again until lightly browned. When cooked, put the Fritters on a sheet of paper to drain off as much of the fat as possible, then place them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew coloured sugarplums over them, and serve with clarified sugar. Sponge Fritters.—Boil 1 pint of water with lib. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, add a heaped breakfast- cupful of flour, and stir quickly over the fire for five minutes. Turn the paste into a basin, mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls more of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, five eggs beaten and flavoured with a little vanilla or ratafia, and 1 teacupful of water. Melt some lard in a frying-pan, and -when it is boiling, put in dessert-spoonfuls of the paste, and fry until browned; then dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with wine or brandy sauce. Turkish Fritters.--Put lib. of flour in a basin with 1 salt- spoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of four eggs, then stir them into the flour, with sufficient milk to make a light batter. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then pour in the batter, and stir it with a wooden spoon until it boils. Turn it on to a dish, spread it out, and leave until cold. When ready, cut the paste into 2in. squares, and roll them round with the hands. Beat the white of an eg'g, and mix 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon with breakfast-cupful of sugar. Put a good- sized lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises. Dip the Fritters in the beaten egg, roll them in the cinnamon sugar, then put them in the boiling butter, and fx-y. When cooked, take them out of the fat, lay them on a sheet of paper near the fire until well drained, pile on a hot dish with a napkin or dish-paper, sift caster sug'ar over, and serve. FROGS (Fr. Grenouilles; Ger. Frosclie; Ital. Rane; Sp. Ranas).—Altliougli each Continental country has its own popular name for the Frog, it is doubtful if it appears in the kitchen under any other name than its French one. Blytli informs us that Frogs are eaten in many countries, and that to associate them always with France is a mis- take, for in America they are considered a great luxury, and when better known will be sure to find favour in England. The edible Frog of Europe is the Green or Fig. 805. Preparing Frog. Gibbous Frog (Rana, esculenta). The Bull Frog (Rana j Catesbiana) is greatly esteemed in America, and said to be in no wise inferior to turtle. These are being introduced into France, and ought to find a ready market. In South Africa a large Frog is eaten, which, when prepared for the table, looks like a chicken, and is known by the euphonious name of Matlametlo. The Chinese and the natives of Australia are also large consumers of Frogs, the flesh being delicate and gelatinous. Frogs are in season during Lent, at which time they are i Frogs—continued. to be seen at the poulterers strung on skewers, having been prepared as follows : The Fi-ogs being killed, lay them on their backs (see Fig. 805), make a long incision from the neck along the side of the belly, make another at right angles across the middle of the belly, dissect out the entrails, and cut away the head, leaving only the back and legs. Skin the Frogs and chop off their feet, thoroughly wash them, and blanch in scalding salted water, and they are then ready for use. For the convenience of cooks, Frogs can be obtained preserved in tins. Broiled Frogs.—Prepare eighteen Frogs as described above, lay the liind-quarters on a dish, and pour over 2 table- spoonfuls of sweet-oil, seasoning with salt and pepper, and squeezing over them the juice of a lemon. Roll the Frogs round several times in this seasoning, place them on the broiler, and broil for four minutes on each side. Take them off, arrange on a hot dish, pour over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve immediately. Fricasseed Frogs.—Prepare twelve saddles or hind-quarters of Fi-ogs as above, and put them in a flat-bottomed saucepan with a little butter and a very small quantity of finely-minced shallot. Place the pan on the fire, and cook until the butter begins to bi-own; then pour over 1 teacupful of shei-ry, cover the pan, and stew for twenty minutes; now skim off most of the butter, and add cayenne and salt to taste. Put the yolks of four eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream in the stock to thicken, mixing the eggs in a little of the hot liquor before adding them, and as soon as the contents of the pan begin to show signs of boiling, remove it from the fire. Place the Frogs on a dish with their legs sticking out all round, and the thick part forming a circle in the centre; strain the sauce, and pour it over them. The wine and eggs are not always used in the cooking. Fried Frogs.—(1) Prepare eighteen Frogs as above, and put them in a bowl with a marinade composed of 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and sweet-oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix well together in the bowl, immerse them in frying-batter, plunge them singly into very hot fat, and fry for five minutes. Di-ain, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Serve with any desired sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Get a tin of Frogs, and roll them in beaten egg ; season some breadcrumbs with salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and cayenne, and coat the Fi-ogs with it, repeating the process. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fix-e ; when blue smoke rises, put in the Frogs, and fry them a golden brown. Dx’ain for a minute on a sheet of paper, then put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, gaimish with fried parsley or watercress, and serve. (3) Parboil the required number of saddles or hind-quai-ters of Frogs in fish stock, or steep them in cold water. When they are ready, take them out, roll them in flour, brush OA'er with egg beaten up with water, and dip them in cracker- meal or breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating; plunge them into a frying-pan of hot lard, and fry them for from four to eight minutes. Have ready some pieces of toast, cut them into triangular shapes, place them on a dish in twos with the thick bases together, and dish the Frogs up on them in like manner, with their thick parts together. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Frogs au Blanc.—Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed, but not browned; pour in 1J pints of stock and | teacupful of cream, and stir until boiling; then move it to the side, and simmer for an hour or more, keeping it well skimmed. Empty a tin of Frogs into a basin, season them with salt and pepper, put a plate over the basin, and stand it in a saucepan of hot water. Leave the Frogs until very hot, then pile them in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the sauce well over them. Garnish with a border of green peas and rings of lemon, and serve. Frogs au Gratin.—Prepare and clean one dozen Frogs; put a thick layer of minced mushrooms and sifted brown bread-651 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Frogs—continued. crumbs in a gratin-disli, lay the pieces of Frogs on them, season with salt and pepper, strew a few sweet herbs over them, also more sifted crumbs, put two or three small bits of lemon-peel on the top, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and pour in about 1 breakfast-cupful of brown gravy. Cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake for half- an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, brown them under a salamander, and serve in the same dish. Frog Salad.—Soak some Frog’s legs in salted water for lialf- an-hour, then drain them, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil gently by the side of the fire. When tender, drain the water from the Frogs, cover them with milk, and let it come slowly to the boil. Take the legs out of the milk, leave them till cool, then bone them. Wash a head of celery, cut it into lin. lengths, put them in a salad-bowl, place the legs on the top, garnish the salad with young tops of celery, chopped hard-boiled eggs, and shrimps or prawns (or, if preferred, lobster claws), and serve with a mayonnaise dressing. Stewed Frogs.—(1) Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of dried flour, and stir it over the fire until browned ; mix in gradually lj pints of brown stock, and continue stirring it until boiling ; then move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an 'hour. Open a tin of Frogs and turn them gently into a basin, which should be stood near the fire in a saucepan of hot water; season them with salt and pepper, cover with a plate, and leave them until hot. Make a border of green peas round a hot dish, put on them here and there some small rings of lemon- peel, and place the Frogs in the centre; mix a wineglassful of port wine with the sauce, pour it over the Frogs, covering them, and serve. (2) Cut off the claws of |lb. of cleaned Frog’s legs, cut these into pieces at each joint, place them in a saucepan on the fire with |oz. of butter, season with salt and red pepper, and cook for five minutes ; then add 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, with two finely-minced truffles, and reduce for three minutes. Put the yolks of three eggs in a basin, add j pint of sweet cream, beat well, and pour it into the pan with the Frogs ; gently shuffle the pan in opposite directions until "the sauce thickens, which will take two-minutes-and-a-half, pour it into a hot soup-tureen, and serve. (3) Take eighteen Frog’s legs, trim off the claws, place them in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, seasoning witli salt and pepper, add 5 wineglassful of white wine, cover over the pan, and cook on a brisk stove for five minutes; then add 1 pint of Dutch sauce, 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and a little lemon-juice, and mix well for two minutes, but do not let the liquor boil again. Turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) American.—Melt |oz. of butter in a saucepan on the fire, and in it brown one chopped onion, about loz. of raw ham cut into dice, half a green pepper-pod cut small, table- spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper ; moisten with lqt. of ■white broth or consomme, add 1 table-spoonful of rice, six sliced gumbos, and one sliced tomato, and cook thoroughly for about twenty minutes. Five minutes before serving add Jib. of prepared Frogs cut up into small pieces. Turn out on to a dish, and serve. One green pepper and two tomatoes may be substituted for the gumbo. FRONTIGNAC.—The name of a sweet French wine, made from Muscat grapes. Known in France as Vin de Frontignan. FROST AND FROSTING. — These terms are frequently used by foreigners practising in this country for freezing and sugar icing. FROST FISH.—An American name for the Smelt. FROZEN MEATS.—Sec Australian Meat. FRUIT (Fr. Fruit; Ger. Obst; Ital. Frutta; Sp. Fruta).—The distinction drawn by the cook between “ Fruit ” and “ vegetables ” is somewhat erroneous accord- ing to the botanist, who pronounces Fruit to be the mature ovary or pistil of a plant, containing the seeds. To call the stalks of a leaf (rhubarb) Fruit merely because Fruit—continued. it is used like a Fruit to make pies, puddings, jams, and other sweet dishes is evidently wrong, for it is certainly not the seed-bearer; and a similar objection is raised to calling a cucumber or vegetable marrow a vegetable because the cook serves them as vegetables. Correctly speaking, the term vegetable applies to all members of the vegetable kingdom, whether plants, shrubs, or trees, and equally therefore to their edible parts, such as leaves, stalks, or Fruit. Fruits are very much used as food either for man or animals, and are often regarded as a luxury. As a rule they do not yield much nourishment, their solid parts rarely exceeding, excepting in the case of grain, 13 per cent. Cooley says : “ The Fruit of the cereals furnishes our daily bread; that of the vine gives us the well- known beverage, wine; whilst other varieties enrich our desserts, and provide us with some of our most valuable condiments and aromatics. The acidulous and sub-acid Fruits are antiseptic, aperient, attenuant, diuretic, and refrigerant. They afford little nourishment and are apt to promote diarrhoea and flatulency. They are, however, occasionally used medicinally. The farinaceous Fruits (grain), as already stated, furnish the principal and most useful portion of the food of man. The oleo- farinaceous (nuts, &c.) are less wholesome and less easy of digestion than those purely farinaceous. The saccha- rine Fruits, or those abounding in sugar, are nutritious and laxative, but are apt fo ferment and disagree with delicate stomachs when eaten in excess. Stone-Fruits are more difficult of digestion than the other varieties, and are very apt to disorder the stomach and bowels.’ Whether, therefore, we regard Fruits as food, medicine, or luxury, it is apparent from their exquisite beauty, so entrancing to the eye, perfume, and flavour, that they were intended for the delectation of man. Fig. 806. Basket of Fruit. All Fruits should lie gathered in warm dry weather, and when the mid-day sun is upon them, for they will then hold the maximum of sugar, and any dew or moisture will have evaporated and dried off. They should be quite ripe when gathered, and not allowed to remain on the tree after ripening, except in certain cases when they are intended to be dried. When gathering Fruit for a dessert-dish, such as a basket (see Fig. 806), it is of the first importance that they should not be handled, lest they lose any of the bloom which is almost essential to the beauty of their appearance in groups.652 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fruit—continued. The Fruits sold in our markets may be divided into three groups: 1, those which are grown in the open air in Great Britain; 2, hot-house Fruits ; 3, imported Fruits ; and these again may be broken up into classes innumer- able. But as no useful purpose would be served by such an arrangement, we pass on to the consideration of numerous receipts which admit of no special classification. For further information concerning special Fruits, see those headings. When a quantity of fresh Fruit has been gathered, it should be carefully looked over, and those damaged picked out and thrown away ; then lay the Fruit on a board, not touching each other, and place it in a dark store- cupboard where a current of air will blow upon it. Every few days the Fruit should be sorted out, and those re- moved which show signs of decay. Almost all Fruits are capable of being preserved either in tins, by drying, by boiling with sugar, or by storing in spirits or vinegar, and for these preparations some very practical receipts are given hereunder: Bottled Fruits.—(1) For every pound of Fruit allow 6oz. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 5 teacupful of water. Prepare the Fruit by removing the stalks, &c., put it into a pan with the sugar and water, and boil it over a slow fire for ten minutes. Warm some wide-mouthed glass bottles near the fire, then dip a thin stick in sulphur, light it, and hold a bottle mouth downwards over it. The bottle will become full of smoke, and by this means all the air in it will be exhausted; then fill the bottle at once with the Fruit. Pro- ceed the same with the other bottles, filling them first with smoke and then with Fruit. Cork or cover the bottles, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight, and put them away in a dry cupboard. (2) Clarify 101b. of loaf sugar ; when it comes to the boil put in 181b. of picked Fruit (either raspberries, black or red currants, gooseberries, or any of these Fruits mixed, or plums or cherries), and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring the Fruit as little as possible, and taking care not to bruise or break it. Let it get quite cold, then put it into glass jars, and tie them down with bladder. Brandied Fruits.—Select equal quantities of ripe and sound Fruits, such as apricots, peaches, and plums, and prick them several times with a fork through to the stone. Put loaf sugar in a lined vessel, allowing lib. of sugar to lib. of Fruit, pour in a small quantity of water, just about as much as the sugar will absorb, and place it over the fire until small transparent bubbles rise to the top. Put the mixed Fruits into the syrup, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until just beginning to soften; then take it off, as the Fruits must still remain firm. Leave them in the syrup until cold, or until the following day; then take them out and place on a wire sieve to drain. Boil the syrup until somewhat thickly reduced, and when it is cold, mix with it an equal quantity of pale brandy. Place the Fruits in jars or glasses, and pour the syrup over them. Fruit Preserved in Ginger Syrup.—Put lib. of finely- broken white ginger into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, and boil until the water is highly impregnated with the ginger ; now add any firm Fruit, boil until done, turn all into a jar, and leave for four or five days, giving it a frequent stir. Put lib. of loaf sugar, £ pint of brandy, the peel of a lemon and juice of half a one in a saucepan, pour in a little of the ginger-water, and boil to a syrup. Skim well, add the Fruit, boil for ten or twelve minutes, remove from the fire, and leave for a week ; then strain off the syrup, add more sugar, boil up again, put the Fruit back, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Turn the preserve into pots, cover with paper soaked in brandy and then with wet parchment, and leave for a month before using. Greening Fruits before Preserving or Pickling.—Any kind of Fruit, such as apricots, pears, plums, &c., can be used in this process. Put a layer of vine-leaves at the bottom of a preserving-pan, put in the Fruit, intermixed with radish- pods or French beans and thin slices of cucumber, cover with more vine-leaves, pour over sufficient cold spring-water to cover them, put on the lid, hermetically seal it with paste, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Fruit—continued. set it on the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently ; then remove from the fire, and take out the Fruit. Leave them for a day, and repeat the process. The Fruit should be peeled before using. Pickled Unripe Fruit.—Gather any kind of Fruit, such as cherries, apples, plums, almonds, apricots, peaches, pears, nectarines, currants, gooseberries, &c., before they are ripe, mix all together, put them in stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them with strong vinegar. Put a piece of thick leather over the jars or bottles, tying it tightly down, place them in a dry cupboard, and leave for a month before using. Preserved Fruit Juice.—The juice of Fruit may be kept for some considerable time by putting it in tins, the same as whole Fruit. Mash the Fruit, press it to extract as much of the juice as possible, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Measure the juice, and put it in a pan with 31b. of crushed preserving-sugar to each quart. Fill some jars with the syrup, cover them, stand them in a saucepan with cold water to three-parts their height, and boil for half-an-hour. Leave the jars in the water till cool, then seal, and put them away for use. Tinned Fruit.—Only perfectly ripe and sound Fruit is fit for canning. It may be cut or kept whole, whichever may be preferred. Put it into tins or glass jars, the covers of which should be of glass, or, if not, should be porcelain-lined, and they should have rubber bands so as to completely exclude the air. Place the tins in a pan of cold water, not deep enough to cover them, with some hay or a folded towel or something of that sort under them, and put them on the stove to heat. When hot, put in the Fruit, which has been previously scalded, either with or without sugar. Keep the tins or jars in the pan of hot water until the Fruit is added and the covers screwed on, when they may be allowed to cool. Screw the covers tighter if they will allow of it, as they should be closed as tightly as possible, and put them in a cool dark place. If without sugar, the Fruit, when ready, should be put into the jars, which should then be placed on a rack of wooden slats in a large deep covered pan, sufficient cold water poured in to reach half-way up the sides of the jars, but not more, covered over with a cloth, and then the cover put on. Place the pan on the stove and let the water boil. In quart jars, large berries, such as grapes or cherries, ought to cook in about twenty minutes; plums, pears, cut apples, pineapples, and almost every other kind of the larger Fruits will also take the same time; quinces, however, and hard pears, take half- an-hour ; while small berries require only a quarter-of-an-hour. When the Fruit is done, lift the pan off the stove and un- cover it. Directly the jars can be handled, which with the help of a dry folded cloth will soon be possible, the covers must be screwed on tighter, and when cold the covers must bo made as tight as possible, and the jars at once stored in a cool dark place. Fig. 807. Chaudfroid of Fruits. Tlie following receipts have been collected and inserted under this heading as being of general application, that is, suitable to various kinds of Fruits, of which those specially mentioned are typical in a culinary sense. Utensils, Sauces, efcc., referred to, sec under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 653 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. Those dishes which are specially illustrated are open to considerable variety, according to circumstances and the Fruit used. See also Jams, Jellies, and Marmalade. Chaudfroid of Fruits.—Line a plain border-mould packed in ice with warmed orange jelly, then decorate the bottom and sides with alternate layers of slices of pineapple cooked in syrup, quarters of preserved apricots, and halves of green- gages, fill up the mould with more of the jelly, and let it set firm. Peel eight cooking apples, cut them in quarters, core them, and stew them in syrup: when done, drain, and let them cool. Turn out the mould on to a cold dish, heap the apples in the centre, arranging them in rows, and pouring over each row a little half-set almond blanc-mange, and letting one row get firm before another is put over. Cut half an apple to represent as nearly as possible a cock’s comb, stone a large plum by cutting it into halves, and put together again to imitate a truffle. Garnish an attelette with the half apple and plum, mask them over with apple blanc- mange, place the attelette in the middle of the rows of apples, and serve. See Fig'. 807. Compote of Fruits.—(1) Wash ^lb. of rice, and boil it till quite soft, then beat it to a stiff paste, and press it into a round flat mould. Strain off the syrup from a tin of preserved apricots into a stewpan, and boil it with £lb. of loaf sugar for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put the apricots in the syrup, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire so that they may simmer for five minutes without fear of breaking. Put in another saucepan a small pot of red-currant jelly and 2oz. of crystallised cherries, and boil for five minutes; when done, drain the cherries and apricots, and let them cool. Turn the rice out of the mould into the centre of a glass dish. Cut the apricots in quarters, and put a row of them round the rice ; fix another row on the top of the first one, and so on, keeping' each row of apricots narrower than the preceding one. When this is done, place between each quarter of apricot a cherry and some shreds of angelica cut in the shape of leaves, pour the apricot and cherry syrups over, and serve. (2) Put lib. of stoned cherries, lib. of picked raspberries, and lib. each of picked white and red currants in a basin, cover them with caster sugar, and pour in 2 wineglassfuls of pale brandy; stir the Fruit about, and leave it till all the sugar is dissolved. Fill a border-mould with a sponge-cake preparation, and bake it; when done, turn it out on a round dish, fill the hollow with the Fruit, and serve. Compote of Fruits with Iced Champagne.—Peel, core, and cut in quarters two fine cooking pears, put them in a sugar-boiler with syrup at lGdeg. (see Syrups) and enough prepared cochineal to make the pears a good pink. Peel, core, and cut in quarters also two large cooking apples, and boil them in a sugar-boiler with more syrup at lfideg., and cook some stoned g'reengages in the same way. When all the Fruits are ready, put them on a wire sieve to drain till cold. Pour i bottle of champagne in a freezer, together with 1 tea- cupful of syrup at 30deg.. and let it freeze. Arrange the cold Fruit in a compote-dish, pour over the frozen champagne and syrup, and serve. Croquenbouche of Fruits.—Butter or oil the inside of a plain mould. Prepare and glaze with sugar equal quantities of plums, apricots, and small oranges, and line the mould with the Fruit, sticking them together with the sugar. Make a tuft or plume of spun sugar. Turn the croquenbouche out of the mould, put the spun sugar tuft on the top, and serve. Dried Fruit Fickle (Indian Style).—This is prepared from dry dates or Arabian apricots, Arabian plums or damsons, English prunes, and Normandy pippins, using them in equal proportions. Well wash and dry the Arabian Fruits. Put the dates into a saucepan with a little water, stew them, and cut them up into rings, rejecting the stones. Prepare a syrup, using 4oz. of sugar to each quart of vinegar. Cut the pippins in quarters, put them together with the other Fruits, in layers, in large wide-mouthed bottles, sprinkle each layer over with salt, finely-sliced ginger, peppercorns, and small sticks of cinnamon, pour over sufficient of the vinegar syrup to cover, cork up the bottles, put them in the sun for a few days, and in a month’s time the pickle will be ready for use. Flawn of Fruits a la Viennese.—Line a scalloped flawn- circle with tartlet-paste ; decorate the edge of the border Fruit—continued. with leaves of paste, and brush them over with egg. Cover the bottom and sides of the mould with paper, fill up the centre with flour, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for forty minutes. This is what is called cooking it a blanc. Take it out, empty out the flour, remove the paper, let it cool, turn it out, and mask inwardly with a layer of apricot marmalade. Place the crust on a dish, and fifteen minutes before using fill the centre with a bavarois mixture of rice and almond milk thickened on the ice, putting it in the flawn Fig. 808. Flawn of Fruits A la Viennese. in layers alternately with apricot marmalade, and raising it up in the centre to the shape of a dome. Place it on the ice for a few minutes to get firm, then put a circle of green- gages at the base of the bavarois dome, then a circle of halves of glazed peaches below. Put a pile of cooked cherries on the bavarois in the centre of the circle of peaches. Cover all of the Fruits over with some of their own syrup when quite cold, using a paste-brush for the purpose, and serve. See Fig. 808. Fruit-and-Batter Pudding1. — Any kind of ripe Fruit may be used, prepared in the usual way. Mix 4oz. of finely- chopped beef-suet in lib. of finely-sifted flour and 1 salt- spoonful of salt; stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of milk to make a thin batter, then beat in the required quantity of Fruit. Turn the whole into a well-buttered shallow dish, and bake in a good oven. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Fruit Bowl.—Cut off all the outside pithy part from a quarter of a large pine-apple, cut it up into slices and then into small squares, put them into a basin, and add five or six ripe peaches cut into halves and then into slices, also the same quantity of apricots peeled and cut into slices, 1 or 2 handfuls of stoned cherries, and double the quantity of raspberries and red currants. Pour over 1 wineglassful of syrup and 2 wineglassfuls of claret, and set the basin on ice. Put the cuttings from the pine-apple into a mortar, pound it well, put it into a sieve with lqt. of strawberries, rub them through into a basin, and mix in a quart bottle of champagne mixed with 1 wineglassful of syrup. Pack a thin china basin in ice, pour in the champagne mixture, and stir for twenty minutes; then add the strained juice of two oranges and the mixed Fruits. When the whole is quite cold, serve with small fancy biscuits. Fruit Cake.—Put 2oz. each of flour and ground rice into a basin, and mix with it 2oz. of butter; rub it with the fingers until well mixed with the flour, then put in loz. each of chopped preserved cherries, ginger, and candied citron peel, 4oz. of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of blanched and powdered sweet almonds. Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, beat the yolks first, mix them with the above ingredients, then whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Line a buttered cake- tin with sheets of buttered paper, pour the mixture in, and bake it in a good oven. When cooked, remove the paper from the cake. Serve it cold. Fruit Charlotte. — (1) Line a charlotte-mould with sweetened short-paste, mask the paste all round the inside with paper, fill it with flour, and bake; when done, take it out of the oven, turn out the flour, remove the paper, turn the paste out of the mould, spread a layer of apricot marmalade inside it, and put it back into the mould, having previously wiped this out with a cloth. Prepare a coarse salpicon with some preserved Fruits, and let them soak in maraschino for three654 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fruit—continued. hours. Boil a stick of vanilla and 7oz. of caster sugar with 1 pint of milk, and beat in the yolks of seven eggs. Strain this cream, and when it is cool freeze it in a freezer ; when frozen, mix in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of maraschino and 6 table-spoonfuls of whipped and sweetened cream. Drain the Fruits, and fill the charlotte-mould with alternate layers of the Fruits and cream. Shut the mould, lute its junctures with paste, and pack it in salted ice for two hours. When ready, turn it out on to a fancy dish, mask it all over with apricot marmalade, ornament the top with a variety of different-coloured preserved Fruits, and serve. (2) Tastefully arrange in the inside of a charlotte-mould some preserved Fruits of various kinds, dipping them first into unset jelly so that they will stick to the mould, and stand the mould in ice. Beat together the yolks of five eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Put 1 pint of milk in a stewpan with 5oz. of isinglass, and boil it for ten minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent it sticking; take it off the fire, put in two sticks of vanilla, place the cover over, and leave it till three-parts cold. Take the vanilla out of the milk, stir in the beaten yolks and sugar, and continue stirring over the fire till the custard thickens and coats the spoon, but do not let it boil. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand it on ice, pour in 4 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and keep stirring until it is on the point of setting; then mix in f pint of well-whipped cream. Fill the mould containing the Fruit with the cream, and keep it in the ice till set; then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cake on to an oval glass dish. Fruit Cheese or Cake. -Put in a mortar, in equal quan- tities, dried preserved Fruits, such as grapes, plums, oranges, and peaches, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, and pound them all together. Pass the pounded mixture through a fine wire sieve, and mix with it sufficient caster sugar and beaten yolks of eggs to form a smooth stiff paste. Mould the mixture like a cake, lay it on a sheet of white paper spread over a baking-tin, and bake it in a moderate oven, serving when cold. Fruit Cobbler (American).—Press the juice out of any kind of Fruit, strain it, and sweeten with caster sugar. When ready to serve, half-fill the glasses with the syrup, and fill to the top with small lumps of ice. Serve with straws to drink through. Fruit-and-Cornflour Jelly.—Put 1 pint of the juice from a tin of any kind of Fruit into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of caster sugar, and place it over the fire to boil. Mix 1 teacupful of cornflour until quite smooth with a small quantity of water, and stir it in with the boiling juice until thick. Kinse out a fancy mould with cold water, turn the jelly into it, and keep it in a cold place until well set. Turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, garnish with preserves, and serve. Fruit Cream.— (1) Put loz. of gelatine in a saucepan with li pints of milk and sugar to taste, stir it over the fire till the gelatine is dissolved, and strain it through a hair sieve; press sufficient juice from any kind of fresh Fruit (red Fruits are the best) to make i pint ; strain and mix the juice with the milk and gelatine, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and whisk with an egg-whisk till quite stiff. Pack a mould in ice, pour in the mixture, and leave it till set. Wipe the mould, turn the contents out on a fancy dish, garnish round the base of the cream with preserved Fruits, and serve. (2) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of cornflour smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, pour it into a stewpan, mix with it 1 pint of tinned Fruit juice, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick and boiling. Pour the liquor into a large bowl, and leave it until cold. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the cream, and serve. (3) This is made either witli the expressed juice of Fruits or the pulp rubbed through a fine sieve. To each quart of pulp or juice add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and to each quart of this—that is, juice or pulp and water—add ilb. of powdered loaf sugar made into simple syrup (see Syrups), the juice of half a lemon, and the white of an eg'g beaten up with a little water; stir well, and freeze. Add to each quart of ice a meringue composed of the white of an egg beaten to a froth and mixed up with loz. of Fruit—continued. sifted crushed loaf sugar. The cream will be rich, smooth, and delicate. Fruit Cream-Ice.—Dissolve jib. of caster sugar in the strained juice of three lemons, and mix with it 1 wineglass- ful each of sherry and grape syrup, and 1 pint of cream. Stir the mixture well, then turn it into the freezer, and work it until frozen. Mix with the cream jib. of preserved Fruits cut into small pieces, turn all into a mould, cover, and pack it in pounded salt and ice for an hour or two. Dip the mould quickly into hot water, to loosen the cream, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Fruit Crusts. —(1) With an oval cutter cut pieces Ain. thick out of slices of stale bread, also some others of a round shape; scoop out a small hollow in the centre of them, fry in butter until lightly browned, and mask them inside with a little orange marmalade. Mix some preserved cherries with a salpii^on of preserved Fruits, thicken it with a little apricot marmalade, and add a little Madeira. Put some Fruit in the hollow of each crust. Fry a thick round flat block of bread, put it in the centre of a dish, and arrange the oval crusts, almost upright, leaning round it; put the round crusts on the top, stick some Fruits on attelettes, and fix them in the top of the bread support. Mask the bottom of the dish and the crusts with a little apricot sauce to which has been added a little Madeira, and serve with more sauce in a sauceboat, with a few Smyrna raisins that have been boiled in syrup for two minutes mixed up in it. See Fig. 809. (2) Cut three moderately thick slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and out of each slice cut two round or diamond- shaped pieces; lay them on a plate, pour over the juice out of a tin of any kind of Fruit, and leave them until well soaked. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan over the fire; when it boils, put in the soaked bread and fry it, turning- it carefully over when browned on one side. Drain the crusts, mask half of them with the tinned Fruit, put the remaining half on the top, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over, and serve hot. Fig. 810. Fruits with Crusts. Fruits with. Crusts.—Wash 1 teacupful of dried Smyrna raisins, put them in a stewpan with an equal quantity of preserved whole cherries, add a few slices of pine-apple, some preservedTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. 655 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Fruit—continued. green almonds, 1 teaeupful of preserved citron cut in dice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped orange-peel, cover the Fruits with Madeira, and boil them ; then take the stewpan off the fire, stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, and stand the stewpan in the bain-marie. Cut out with a round paste-cutter twelve slices of household bread, about Jin. thick, fry them brown both sides in clarified butter, drain them, arrange in a circle on a round dish, mask them with a little of the sauce that the Fruits were cooked in, put the Fruits in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 810), and serve. It is a great improvement to put slices of pine- apple alternately with the crusts of bread. Fruit Darioles.—Pack in ice twelve large dariole-moulds, garnish them at the bottoms and round the sides with pre- served Fruits, angelica, or candied peel, each piece being dipped in half-set jelly; when set, mask them with a thin coating of blanc-mange, fill the centres with a preparation of Bavarian cream with rice, mixed up with a salpb’on of preserved Fruits, let them set thoroughly, turn them out, arrange in the form of a pyramid on a dish, and serve. Fruit Dumplings.—Boll out sufficient suet crust to make twelve dumpling's, cut it into rounds 4in. in diameter, fill each one separately with different kinds of Fruits, put on the top of each a little mixture made with 1 tabic-spoonful of sifted breadcrumbs mixed up with an egg, sweetened with sugar and flavoured with grated lemon-peel, roll up to form balls, tie each one separately in a cloth, and boil for forty-five minutes. When done, turn out, pour over a wine sauce, and serve. Fruit Foam.—Mix together, in equal quantities, strawberry jam and red-currant jelly, also an equal quantity of caster sugar. Beat the whole until well mixed, then add the whites of three or four eggs, and continue beating for half-an-hour longer. Pile the mixture up on a glass dish, and serve. Fruit Fritters (Parisian). — Put 2oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in 4oz. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of brandy, 1 pinch of salt, sufficient water to make a creamy paste, and work in the whites of two eggs, beaten to a very stiff froth. Cut any kind of Fruit into pieces or quarters, dip them into the batter, and fry them in butter to a light golden colour ; take them out when done, drain them of all the fat, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve. The Fruit should be quite ripe, and if it is not, it should be partly boiled in syrup. The pieces should not be too large. Fruit Gateau.— (1) Butter a shallow tart-tin, line it with good short-crust, and cover with a thick layer of well-sweetened stewed fresh Fruit. Blanch and pound 2oz. of almonds, adding occasionally a small quantity of white of egg to prevent them oiling. Beat two eggs, and mix with them the pounded almonds, 2oz. of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon ; and stir in sufficient sour cream to make a smooth liquid mixture. Pour the mixture over the cake, and bake it in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Serve hot or cold. (2) Butter a shallow mould, line it with a paste made of bread dough, cover it with any kind of mixed fresh or pre- served Fruit, so arranged that no spaces are left between them, sift sugar over, put in two or three small pieces of hutter, sprinkle a little boiling water over, and bake in a moderate oven, taking care to keep it a light colour. When it is cooked, take it out of the oven, leave it till cold, turn it out of the tin on to a dish, and serve. Fruit Gimblettes.—(1) Boll out a sheet of puff paste, mask it thickly with any kind of Fruit marmalade, cover with another sheet of puff paste, stick the edges together, cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter 2in. in diameter, and then cut out the centres of them with a cutter lin. in diameter. Finely chop 4oz. of blanched almonds or pistachios, and mix with them 2oz. of caster sugar and a little white of egg; brush over the gimblettes with beaten yolk of egg, dip that side in the almond mixture, place them with this side upwards on a baking-sheet, dust over caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve plain, or with thick cream. (2) Boll out two rounds of Genoese paste of equal size and about iin. in thickness, and bake them. Have ready any kind of Fruit, soaked in maraschino-flavoured syrup and a little cream, cover one round of paste with this, and place the other quickly on the top. Leave till cold, then mask Fruit—continued. it with chocolate icing, decorate with more coloured icing forced through a cornet, and serve when cold and set. Fruit Ice.—Make two preparations, one of sweet white Fruit ice made with pine-apple or lemon, and the other of red ice with raspberries, strawberries, or red currants. Fill a few moulds in the shapes of apricots, peaches, and pears with these ices, and also one representing a pine-apple ; close them tightly, wrap them up in paper, put them one at a time in a layer of pounded ice and saltpetre, sprinkle them over with salt, and cover with more ice and saltpetre. In the mean- time, spread a flat-bottomed pyramid mould with paper, set it on salted and saltpetred icc, and pack it well round with it. When quite cold, begin to fill it with regular and alternate layers of the prepared ices, commencing and finishing with the white. Put the cover over the mould, hermetically close it with paste, put a little salt on the top, and cover with more salted ice. Let it remain for an hour, then turn it out after wiping the outside of the mould with a cloth dipped in warm water. Arrange it on a napkin in the centre of a dish, surround it with the pears, peaches, &c., and place the pine-apple on the top, with a few green leaves at its base. Fruit Jelly.—(1) Boil in lqt. of water Jib. of American apple rings, also loz. of tamarinds and lib. of prunes in another saucepan with the same quantity of water. Peel and core lib. of pears, and stone lib. of dates and Jib. of raisins. When the tamarinds and prunes are tender, remove the stalks and stones, put them with their cooking-liquor into a preserving- pan, and add the apple rings, also their cooking-liquor, together with the pears, dates, and raisins. Put in with the above 41b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and lqt. of water. Stir the whole over the fire, and boil until the liquid is reduced to a thick syrup ; then put in Jib. of gelatine that has been soaked in water for several hours, and continue boiling until very thick. Turn the jolly into small jars, and cover them while hot. (2) The Fruit should be thoroughly ripe, and should bo gathered in dry weather. Pick it clean, put it into a jar, and cover it closely. Put the jar into a saucepan three-quarters full of cold water, set it over a moderate fire, and simmer for half- an-hour or longer ; then strain the contents of the jar through a jelly-bag twice. Do not squeeze the bag, simply allow the juice to drip through. Add to each pint of juice 1 Alb. of powdered white sugar ; when the sugar is melted in the juice, put it over the fire in a preserving-pan, and boil slowly, stirring and skimming all the time till it is quite clear and no more scum rises. It will take about half-an-hour or forty minutes. Bemove the pan from the fire, let it stand to cool, and then put the jelly into pots. When quite cold, lay over each a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the pots air-tight. One dessert-spoonful of this jelly dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of vinegar or brandy makes very good Fruit vinegar or brandy. (3) Soak loz. of gelatine in water until soft, then put it in a saucepan with Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and J pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Whip the whites of three eggs to a froth, put them in with the gelatine, add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and boil it a minute or two longer, stirring continually. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag until quite clear, and let it get cool. Prepare lqt. of mixed Fruit, cutting it into slices, put it into a stewpan with water to cover and lib. of sugar, and stew gently until tender; then take the Fruit from the fire, and leave it until cold. Mix J pint of champagne with the jelly, pour a layer of it about lin. thick into a mould, and leave it until set; then put in a layer of the stewed Fruit, and cover it with a layer of the jelly. Continue in this way until the mould is full, and then stand it in ice for an hour or two. Dip it in warm water to loosen the con tents, wipe it, and turn the jelly quickly out on to a fancy glass or china dish. (4) Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water for half-an-hour, strain it, put it into a lined saucepan with 6oz. of caster sugar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the juice from a tin of any kind of Fruit, and boil gently until the gelatine is dissolved. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the Fruit into a mortar and pound it to a pulp, then mix it with the juice. Turn the jelly into a basin and leave it until cold. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, turn them in with the jelly, andTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 656 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. beat well together, thus breaking the jelly up into small pieces. Pile the jelly in custard-glasses, and serve. (5) Soak l-j-oz. of gelatine in a small quantity of cold water, strain it, put it into a lined saucepan with lqt. of any kind of tinned Fruit and its juice, sweeten with 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stew gently until the Fruit is soft and the gelatine dissolved. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and put it in a cold place until well set. Whip to a stiff froth 1 pint of thick cream, with sufficient red Fruit juice to tinge it, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, pour the cream over it, and serve. A well-flavoured custard may be used instead of the cream. Fruits in Jelly.—(1) Make 1 pint of clear calf’s-foot jelly, pour half of it into a mould, and leave it until stiff; then put in a bunch of purple grapes, and around those put some peaches, with their stalks upwards. Pour in the remainder Fig. 811. Fruits in Jelly. of the jelly, whicli should fill the mould, and stand it in a cold place until the following day. Dip the mould for a few minutes in a bowl of hot water to loosen the contents at the side, then turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, and serve. See Fig. 811. (2) Pack a mould in ice, and line the bottom of it with a layer, about lin. thick, of half-set jelly flavoured with mara- schino. When set, put in a group of preserved Fruits, fixing it up at the sides with more jelly, and putting a layer of jelly on the top. Leave the mould in the ice till the jelly has set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy glass dish. Fruit-Juice Granito.—Boil Mb. of syrup to the twenty-eighth degree (see Syrups), then mix it with 1 pint of Fruit juice. Put the mixture into the freezer, and work it with a spatula or wooden spoon ; as it becomes frozen at the sides, scrape it, and work it to the middle. When half-frozen so as to resemble snowy water, turn the granito into glasses, and serve. Fruit-Paste Fritters. — Make lib. of pulp with any kind of Fruit by putting it in a preserving-pan with ^lb. of crushed preserving-sugar and sufficient water to reach to the height of the Fruit, putting the pan over a slow fire, and boiling gently, stirring constantly till the Fruit is reduced to a stiff mass. Turn the pur<Se on to a baking-sheet, and make it smooth and level; then place it in a screen of moderate heat, and dry it for several hours, turning it when it has been in some time. When dry, leave the paste till quite cold, then stamp it out into circular pieces about 2in. in diameter. Cut out of some stiff jelly half as many rounds as there are of paste, having them the same size. Place each piece of jelly between two rounds of paste, dip them in half-grained sugar, and place each one as it is done on wire trays placed in a screen. When quite dry, take them out of the screen, and serve. Fruit Fie.—Mix £ table-spoonful of arrowroot with a small quantity of cold water until smooth, put it into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of juice from a tin of any kind of Fruit, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened. Put about Fruit—continued. 2 breakfast-cupfuls of tinned Fruit and juice into a pie-dish, and pour the thickened juice over it. Put 1 teacupful of well-washed rice into a saucepan with 1^ pints of milk, and boil it until reduced to a pulp. Beat two eggs with 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stir them in with the rice when it is cooked. Spread the rice out on a dish, leave until cool, then work it up with a small quantity of flour ; mould it into a flat cake that will just fit in the pie-dish, lay it on the top of the Fruit, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake in a brisk oven until browned. Serve hot or cold. Fruit Pilau.—Prepare a syrup with 8oz. of sugar, flavouring it with joz. each of ground coriander-seeds and ginger, and simmer for about ten minutes so as to extract the flavour; then strain it, and put it on one side (see Syrups). Parboil lib. of rice in water, take it out. drain it, put it into the syrup, and complete the boiling. In the meantime, prepare a simple syrup with another pound of sugar, add the strained juice of two or three lemons and about twelve each of cloves and cardamoms, and simmer gently for fully ten minutes; then put in eight or ten bananas cut lengthwise into halves or quarters, and stew until done. Put the sugared rice in a heap on a dish, over this place the bananas, strain the syrup over all, and serve. Any other Fruit besides bananas can be used for this dish. Fruit Pudding1.— (1) Put \ pint of milk and J pint of the juice from any kind of tinned Fruit into a stewpan with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and place it over the fire until boiling-; then move it to the side, and stir in quickly the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Butter a pie-dish, and put in 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of the tinned Fruit. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, stir them lightly in with the custard, and pour it over the Fruit. Put the pudding into a brisk oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. Serve hot or cold. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of any kind of tinned Fruit and juice into a basin, mix with it sufficient finely-grated stale breadcrumb to give it a consistency, and add also 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with suet crust, pour in the Fruit mixture, cover it with a flat of the crust, moistening and pressing the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, put it into a saucepan of boiling- water, and boil it for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of any kind of tinned Fruit and juice into a lined saucepan, and stew it g-ently until the Fruit is tender; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, mix with it J pint of milk and two well-beaten eggs, and stir over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it to the side. Butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of thin slices of bread- and-butter, pour a layer of the Fruit mixture over it, then cover with another layer of bread-and-butter, and so on until the dish is full, the last layer being of bread-and-butter. Let the pudding soak for an hour, then bake it for half-an- hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. (4) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of flour into a stewpan, and stir in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and any kind of tinned Fruit juice ; continue stirring the mixture over the fire until boiling and thick, then turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the Fruit in a tinned saucepan, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stew until tender. Beat well four eggs, then mix them in with the batter ; mash the Fruit, and add it also. Thickly butter the interior of a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, smooth over the surface with the blade of a knife, strew over caster sugar, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour. When the pudding is evenly browned on the top, take it out of the oven, and serve hot or cold. (5) Cut four greengages, four peaches, and four apricots in halves and take out the stones, peel and core two large cooking apples and cut them in quarters, put the Fruit in a basin, and sprinkle caster sugar over it. Roll some pudding- crust into a flat round, place it on a buttered cloth, stand it in a basin so as to keep it up all round, put in the Fruit, tie the cloth tightly round, plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two hours, adding occasionally more boiling water, but putting the lid on the saucepan again directly. Turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, sprinkle657 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. caster sugar oyer it, and serve with a sauceboatful of Fruit syrup. (6) Cut about one dozen thin slices of bread-and-butter, and soak them in just as much tinned Fruit juice as they will absorb. Thickly butter a pie-dish, put in about 2 breakfast- cupfuls of the Fruit and juice, then strew a thick layer of grated breadcrumb and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar on the top, and baste them with 1 teacupful of cold water; then lay over them the soaked slices of bread-and-butter, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake until browned. When cooked, sift caster sugar over, and stand the pie on a flat dish. It may be served hot or cold. (7) German. — Press sufficient juice out of raspberries and red currants to fill 3 breakfast - cups, the rasp- berry-juice predominating; mix 1 heaped table-spoonful of maizena smoothly with a little cold milk or water, and stir the Fruit juice into it, adding sufficient water to make up lqt.; sweeten to taste, turn it into a lined saucepan, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling; pour the mixture into a mould, and leave it until cold. Boil § pint of milk with half a vanilla bean in it ; beat the yolks of two eggs in a little cold milk, and stir the boiling milk quickly into them. Pour the sauce back again into the saucepan, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire until thickened, but do not allow it to boil. Turn the sauce into a jug, and leave it until cold. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Fruit Pudding1 with Sum Sauce.- Butter a quart pudding- mould 4in. high, and line it with |lb. of paste. Put 4oz. of stoned cherries into a basin with 3oz. each of stoned plums and apricots, sift over ilb. of powdered loaf sugar, mix well, and turn it into the mould. Pour \ pint of water in a sauce- pan, add 6oz. of granulated sugar, place it on the stove, and boil for five minutes ; then fill up the mould with this syrup, and bake in a very hot oven for thirty minutes. Turn it out, pour over rum sauce, and serve. Fruit Ratafia.—Stone 51b. of ripe cherries, pick 2|lb. of red and lib. of black currants, pick and hull lilb. of red rasp- berries, mix them all together, and strain the juice from them. Measure the juice, and allow to every quart ^lb. of loaf sugar and ^ pint of brandy. Let the sugar completely melt in the juice, and then add the brandy, together with 2 drachms of cloves and 1 drachm of mace. Let it stand for several days, then filter, bottle, and cork securely. Fruit-and-Rice Shape.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed rice into a saucepan with 6 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 3 pints of milk, and boil gently until tender, stirring it occasionally. Binse out a mould with cold water, then line it round the bottom and sides with tinned Fruit; pour the rice gently into the prepared mould, being very careful not to disarrange the Fruit, and set it in a cold place. Whip 1 pint of thick cream with the juice of the Fruit. When quite set, turn the contents of the mould out on to a fancy dish, pour the whipped cream over and round it, and serve. See Fig. 812. The cream should not be whipped until half-an-hour before being wanted. Fruit Salad.—Bemove the stalks and stones from jib. of very ripe cherries, pick ^lb. each of red and white currants, and Fruit—continued. pick and hull ^lb. each of raspberries and strawberries; sprinkle over the Fruit plenty of powdered white sugar and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Stir and shake the Fruit about lightly till the sugar is dissolved, and serve. Fruit Sauce.—(1) Stew 1 breakfast-cupful each of cherries, plums, and greengages with a very little water and loaf sugar to taste ; rub the Fruit through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, crack the stones, pound the kernels, and blend them with the Fruit. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cornflour with a little water, stir it in with the Fruit, and continue stirring over the fire till the sauce boils and thickens ; pour in also 1 wineglassful of port wine and the juice of half a lemon. This sauce is very nice served with puddings, pies, blanc-manges, &c. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar into a saucepan with double the quantity of any kind of jam or Fruit jelly, and add 1 teaspoonful of cornflour and 1 teacupful of water. Stir well over the fire until it boils, and serve. Should jam be used, it is advisable to strain the sauce before serving. Fruit Sauce for Batter Pudding's.—A simple sauce can be made by mixing with a fork equal parts of warmed butter and granulated sugar, together with enough Fruit juice or essence to flavour the sauce palatably. Fruit Syrup, suitable for making Fruit Drinks.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water and ^lb. of sugar into a porcelain- lined saucepan, boil for five minutes, add 1 pint of any kind of expressed Fruit juice, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for forty-five minutes, carefully removing all the scum. Let it get cold, bottle it, cork securely, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. Used with iced water this makes a delicious beverage. Fruit Tablets.—(1) Pick, and put in a preserving-pan sufficient Fruit to make lib. of pulp, and stir it over the fire till reduced. Clarify 41b. of crushed preserving-sugar, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling). Put the Fruit into the boiled sugar, boil up again to the feather degree, then move it from the fire, and let it stand for five minutes. Work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a spatula or wooden spoon till quite glossy, then stir it gently in the middle. Pour the syrup into a case shaped out of cartridge- paper to resemble a shallow pan. When slightly cooled, mark the surface of the syrup across with the point of a knife into the shape of tablets. When quite cold, break it where marked, and keep the tablets dry in tins. (2) Extract 1 pint of any kind of Fruit juice by pressing the Fruit on a fine hair sieve, allowing the juice to drop through into a basin placed underneath. Boil 21b. of loaf sugar to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), then mix the juice with it gradually, working it at the side of the pan with a spoon. Brush over a shallow tin dish with oil of almonds, then turn the sugar into it. When cooled, mark the surface in tablets with a knife, and when quite cold snap them asunder where marked, and pack away in boxes. Fruit Tart.—(1) Boll out some short-paste to a round, put it on a buttered baking-dish, moisten the edges, and fix round a ring of puff paste about lin. wide ; brush over the top of the puff paste with egg, prick the surface of the flat of short- paste to prevent it swelling when baked, and bake in a moderate oven; when nearly done, sprinkle caster sugar over, and put it back in the oven. When done, take it out, and let it cool. Fill the lioilow with a mince of mixed Fruits, cooked as for a compote, put it on a round dish, mask with flavoured syrup, and serve. (2) Any kind of tinned Fruit can be used. Butter a shallow dish, line it with a rich short-crust, then put in the Fruit and its juice. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated stale bread- crumb into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat them with sufficient water to make a stiff paste. Spread the crumb mixture over the Fruit, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for tliree-quarters-of-an-hour. When the tart is cooked, strew caster sugar over the top, and serve hot or cold. Fruit Trifle.—(1) Put 21b. of tinned Fruit into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of caster sugar, and stew it until tender; cut lib. of sponge cake into round slices; strain off the juice, mash the Fruit with a wooden spoon, spread it over the slices of cake, and place them on the top of one another 3 ETEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 658 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. in a glass or fancy china dish. With a sharp knife cut out a piece from the middle, leaving a wall about 2in. thick, but do not remove it from the centre of the cake, then pour the juice of the Fruit over it, and let it soak for half-an hour. Take out the middle of the cake, put it in a basin with three or four ratafias, 2 table-spoonfuls of the Fruit juice, and 1 heaped table-spoonful of powdered chocolate. Beat the mix- ture until quite smooth, then put it hack in the centre of the cake. Put 1 table-spoonful of cornflour into a lined saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stir in gradually 1 V pints of milk ; continue stirring it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in quickly the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. When cold, pour the custard over the cake. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow with f table-spoonful of caster sugar, then spread it over the top of the custard. Decorate the top of the cake with crystallised Fruit, sugar-plums, or anything that may be fancied, and serve. (2) Stew lib. of cherries and lib. of red currants separately. Put at the bottom of a glass dish a layer of fresh strawberries; soak some slices of stale sponge cake in sherry, put a layer of them over the strawberries, then a layer of the stewed red currants, a layer of ratafias, and on the top the stewed cherries, covering with a custard. Whip some cream, pile it over the custard, and the dish is ready to be served. Fruit Vinegar.—For 4galls. of vinegar use 2 bushels of any kind of rijie juicy Fruit. Crush it with a stamper, put it into a large vessel with 4galls. of boiling water, stir well, and keep it in a warm temperature for a week. As the fermentation pro- gresses, skim off all the impure matter that rises to the top. At the end of the week strain the liquor and Fruit through strong fine linen, pressing the pulp well to extract all the juice. Pour the liquor into a 4gall. barrel, mix in 1 pint of yeast, and put in a piece of bread. Fix the bung in loosely, spread a piece of flannel over it, and stand the cask in a warm temperature. In about six weeks’ time draw the vinegar off into bottles, cork tightly, and put them by for use. Fruit Wine.—Take equal quantities each of black, white, and red currants, cherries, and raspberries, bruise them, and to every 41b. pour over lgall. of water. The more black currants that are used, the better the wine. Stir frequently for three days in an uncovered vessel, and then strain through a fine sieve. To each gallon of liquid add 31b. of sugar, and let it stand for three days longer, stirring frequently. Skim off the scum, pour it into a cask, and let it ferment for a fortnight. To each 9galls. add lqt. of brandy, bung up the cask, and bottle off when clear. Should it be a long time in fining, add a little dissolved isinglass. Glazed Fruits.-—Put lib. of loaf sugar over the fire in a copper sugar-boiler with 1 gill of cold water, and boil until the top is covered with large bubbles, then drop a little of it into cold water ; if when it is cold it breaks with a snap, it is ready. The sides of the boiler must occasionally be wiped with a wet cloth to free them from sugar, and the sugar closely watched lest it boil beyond the point indicated. Take the boiler from the fire, and glaze the Fruits by dipping them into the sugar and then laying them on a dish slightly coated with salad-oil. Macedoine of Fruits.—(1) Take two dome-shaped moulds with fluted sides, one mould being 2in. larger in diameter than the other, and fully lin. higher. The smaller mould must have four hooked handles at the sides, by which it may be hung exactly in the centre of the larger mould. Make a transparent strawberry jelly. Set the larger mould as level as possible in pounded ice, hang the smaller one inside, and pour the strawberry jelly into the larger mould, nearly filling it. Let it remain in the ice till the jelly is quite stiff. In the meantime, hull about twenty white strawberries, the same number of red ones, and twenty or thirty white raspberries; pick from their stalks a handful of red currants and the same quantity of white, and if they are not perfectly clean, wash them, but handle them as little as possible. When the jelly is quite set, remove the smaller mould by pouring hot water into it, when it may be lifted out without difficulty ; but raise it carefully, that its shape may be preserved smoothly on the jelly underneath. Arrange at the bottom of this space some of the white currants, surround them with a ring of Fruit—continued. white strawberries, and lay round them white raspberries. Pour in very carefully (so as to leave the Fruit undisturbed) a few table-spoonfuls of jelly, and let it stand till quite set; then arrange some of the red Fruit, again adding jelly, and letting it stand till set; add red and white Fruit alternately, pouring in jelly each time and letting it stiffen till the Fruit is all used ; fill up the mould with jelly. When quite set, dip the mould into hot water for an instant, and turn the jelly out. See Fig. 813. Fig. 813. Macedoine of Fruits. (2) Strain the syrup off some preserved pears, apricots, plums, and cherries, and put it into a stewpan with a few drops of brandy and a little loaf sugar, stir over the fire till it thickens, and skim off any scum that may rise to the top. Arrange equal quantities of the Fruit tastefully in a fancy dish, pour the syrup over it, and serve cold. Muscovite Dish of Fruits. Make 1 pint of apricot puree, and mix with it \ pint of syrup, four dissolved leaves of French gelatine, the juice of an oraug'e, and a little grated orange-peel; pour this into a plain border mould, surround it with salted ice, and leave it to set for half-an-hour. Whilst this is setting, get ready a mixed mince of Fruits, either fresh or crystallised ; if the crystallised are used, they should be first'•softened in warm water. Fill a dome-shaped mould with the mixture, pour in a little flavoured syrup, and surround the mould with ice till wanted. Dip the border mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a round dish. Drain the Fruit mixture, fill the hollow of the border with it, and mask it with a purde of fresh Fruits that have been sugared and cooled on ice. This dish makes an exceedingly pretty entremet. Raisinet.—For this capital children’s preserve, take, say, 181b. of Fruit, which may be made up of apples, pears, peaches, apricots, cherries, plums, currants, grapes, or any other fresh Fruits, taking them all in equal quantities as nearly as possible. Prepare the Fruits by stoning and peeling those that require it, and keep each kind separate from the others. Put 101b. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with water, and boil it to a syrup of 22deg. (see Syrups). Pour this into a pre- serving-pan, and simmer each kind of Fruit in it, one sort at a time, until nearly cooked ; then put them into a large sieve over a bowl, and let them drain. When all the various kinds of Fruit have been treated in the same way, pour in 6qts. of currant- or grape-juice (or cider will do), and boil quickly until the liquor becomes stringy and hangs from the spoon. Put in all the Fruits, taking great care not to bruise them, stir very gently for ten minutes, turn the raisinet into jars or pots, and it is ready for use. This may be eaten with rice, cornflour blanc-mange, or other farinaceous food. Suedoise of Fruits -with Jelly.—Pack a high-shaped char- lotte-mould in ice ; procure some white apples and reddened pears that have been previously boiled in syrup and cooled on ice, prick them with a larding-needle, and dip them in half-set white jelly; stick them round the sides of the mould, alternating the shades by two and two so that they form diagonal stripes; mask all round the inside, when the Fruit is arranged, with a layer of orange-jelly about |in. thick, fill the hollow with a strawberry bavarois mixed with a salpiijonTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 659 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fruit—continued. of preserved Fruits, and keep the mould in the ice for one hour. When about to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on a bordered slab of gum-paste on a dish. Ornament the top with a rosette of preserved Fruits, and garnish the base with chopped jelly. Timbale of Fruits.—Rub 2oz. of softened butter into 6oz. of flour, mix in 1^ pints of milk and 1 pinch of salt, and stir it over the fire in a saucepan for fifteen minutes ; then turn it out, and let it cool. Butter a plain timbale-mould, pour in the batter, and bake it; when done, cut it flat on the top, hollow the inside, and fill it with orange ice mixed with preserved Fruits. Tux-n it out on to a round dish, mask the outside with orange icing, and garnish with a circle of halves of preserved greengages stuck round the top of the timbale, and stand upright round the base some strawberry- jam tartlets. An elegant supper dish. Vol-au-Vent of Fruits.—Prepare a vol-au-vent case of puff paste, bake it in a moderate oven, and cover with l'oyal icing. Scald and sweeten 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, stir in twelve preserved cherries and six apricots cut in halves, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Put 2oz. of macaroons at the bottom of the case, pour in the cream mixture, also two bananas cut in slices and three rings of angelica, put another 2oz. of macaroons on the top, and serve. FRUMENTY.—This is a great dish in some parts of the British Isles, especially in Somersetshire, where it is more often known as fnrmenty, or furmity. The term is derived from the Latin frvmentum—wheat, and is therefore most probably a dish of the ancient Romans, bequeathed to us by them during their stay here. Several receipts are extant for its manufacture, of which the following have been found to give satisfactory results: (1) Wash J pint of wheat, put it in a saixcepan with just sufficient water to keep it moist, and boil it slowly till tender. When done, remove the pan from the fire, and mix with it beaten eggs or cream. Sweeten to taste, add a small quantity of grated nutmeg, aixd flavour it with a few drops of vanilla, rose- or orange-flower water. Sei-ve hot or cold. (2) Put i pint of wheat in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and let it simmer gently at the edge of the fire until it bursts and is soft. Mix about ^ table-spoonful of flour smoothly in 1 pint of milk, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with a small quantity of grated nutmeg or powdered cinnamon, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Stir in with the milk about 1 table-spoonful of the wheat, boil all together for two or three minutes, and serve. (3) Soak the requisite quantity of wheat for thirty-six hours, anti boil it until tender the day before it is wanted. It will take about six hours to cook. Drain it, and on the following day put it in a saucepan with milk to cover it, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for two hours. Make a custard with the yolks of six eggs, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour it with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Mix 1 teacupful of well- washed currants with the wheat, and stir in the custard. Turn it on to a dish, and serve. Somersetshire Frumenty.—Put igall. of cold water into a lai-ge stone jar with ig-all. of bruised wheat, and cook in the oven until quite soft. Put Jgall. of fresh milk into a saucepan, add as much of the wheat as will make it of the consistency of thick custard, add also Jib- of well-cleaned currants, and stir over the fire until the currants are cooked. Put the yolks of three eggs into a bowl, beat them well, season with nutmeg, and pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk ; add these when well mixed to the wheat, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then sweeten to taste, and serve hot or cold in a deep dish. Turkish Frumenty.—Put the required quantity of hulled wheat in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it until the grains begin to crack, skimming off with a wooden spoon any pulp that may rise to the top, and put it in a basin ; pour more water in with the grains, continue boiling them, and skim until all the goodness has been extracted. Strain all Frumenty—continued. that is left of the grains through a fine hair sieve. Put lqt. of the pulp into a saucepan with 1 teaoupful of well- washed eui-rants and 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup, stir the mixture over the fire till it begins to boil, then flavour it with rose-water and musk in small quantities, stirring for two or thi-ee minutes longer. Blanch, skin, and cut into long shreds 2oz. each of almonds and pistachios. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it till cold; then arrange the almonds and pistachios tastefully over it, and serve. FRY.—A dish of anything fried, but applied nowadays to the internal parts of a lamb or a pig when cooked together, generally by baking or stewing. FRYING.—Some very mistaken notions have crept into culinary use concerning this, which is one of the most effective of all cooking processes. The modern acceptation of the term has probably originated with the shallow frying-pan, which was invented for what might more fittingly be termed “ pot-broiling.” A small quantity of fat at the bottom of the pan, and upon that a chop, steak, kidney, or rasher of bacon might be deliciously prepared for table; but when we speak of frying fish, then the meaning of the term undergoes a complete change. Frying, correctly speaking, is not merely frizzling in a little fat, but cooking by absolutely immersing the article to be fried in boiling or nearly boiling fat. This Fig. 814. Pan for Frying. requires a pan with straight sides (see Fig. 814) and some inches deep, together with a quantity of fat that might astonish a parsimonious housekeeper. And yet there should be no waste whatever ; the same fat, if discreetly worked, being used over and over again. Besides this, the best fat for frying is undoubtedly the dripping of roasted joints, together with the rended- down scraps of fat that might otherwise be wasted. See Fat. Fat for frying should be almost boiling; a very good sign as to when it is ready to receive the article to be fried being, not bubbling, as some would suppose, but smoking—hence cooks talk of the fat as being “smoking hot.” If any doubt should exist as to the heat of the fat, drop a piece of bread into it and keep it there Fig. 815. Iron Wire Frying-basket. for a minute; if the fat browns it, quenelles and croquettes may be cooked in it. When fat is ready for frying, the heat of it is very great, being more than twice that of boiling water ; so that no time is lost in cooking, a minute or two being ample for cold meat croquettes, quenelles of cold fish, oysters, or small fish, such as whitebait, which need little more than immersing.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 660 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Frying—continued. Thick slices of raw fish, fritters, rissoles, and such like, require some time longer. A very important adjunct to the frying-pan is a wire frying-basket (see Fig. 815). It is most useful for whitebait, croquettes, and other small things which require speedy removal when done. The articles to be fried should be arranged at the bottom of the basket, so that they do not touch each other, and will thus be cooked all round. The basket should be first heated in the fat, and charged quickly with a few at a time—an overcharge would chill the fat, and prevent the articles being cooked from browning all round. Larger fish require a vessel called a fish-fryer (see Fig. 816. Fish-fryer. Fig. 816), which is fitted with a perforated or wire strainer. Everything to be fried must be thoroughly dry upon the surfaces that are to be exposed to the fat, other- wise a coating of steam forms between the fat and the surface. Slightly warming the outsides first is a good plan; or slices of fruit, such as apples, may be first soaked in rum or other spirit, the spirit blending with the fat, and dispersing rapidly in the heat. Other watery surfaces are better coated with egg-and-bread- crumbs, or a thick batter. All fried foods must be thoroughly drained before being served. FUEL.—It is not possible to go very deeply into this subject in this Encyclopaedia, for the plain reason that good cooks will adapt their requirements to the Fuel that is at their service. Ooal gas is now a favourite Fuel, and has been so scientifically applied to culinary purposes that it may be considered not only exceedingly service- able but economical and cleanly. These matters are treated of elsewhere (see Ovens, Ranges, Stoves, &c.), and varieties of Fuel are described under their special headings. Of patent Fuels there is little enough to say in their favour so far as kitchen use is concerned; if they are ever to be used for cooking, they will possibly require a special arrangement of the stove. FUMET.—This is a French word much used in Continental kitchens as applied to a “ flavour ” of game (fumet de gibier) given to certain dishes. The process is more fully described under Game, Mush- rooms, Truffles, and other characteristically scented viands. FUN PUDDING-.—See Puddings. FUSEL OIL.—The technical term for this is amylic alcohol, or alcohol derived from starch of potato or grain. Hence it is also known as potato-spirit or oil, grain- spirit oil, &c., and is described by Blyth as follows: “An offensive, strong-smelling oil, produced along with alcohol during the fermentation of grain, potatoes, &c., on a large scale, and which gives the peculiar flavour and odour to raw whisky.” When swallowed it occasions nausea, vomiting, delirium, and in any great quantity is a narcotic poison. GALANTINES. — This word, like many others, appears to have a certain amount of doubt attached to its derivation and meaning. It is, by some etymologists, confounded or confused with gelatine, but this is evidently erroneous, as Kettner explains, for the term is used in a cookery book compiled by King Richard II.’s cooks (1390), in consultation with the physicians and philoso- phers of the Court. The book is entitled the “ Forme of Cury,” and gives, amongst some two hundred receipts, the following “Galyntyne”: Take crusts of bread and grind them small. Do (add) thereto powder of galyngale, of canel (cinnamon), gyngynes (ginger), and salt it. Temper it with vinegar and draw it up through a strainer, and mess (dish) it forth. This would appear to be the sauce for seasoning Galan- tines, whether of lampreys, pork, or any other food, and as in all cases the galingale is mentioned, it is more than probable that galingale originated the word Galan- tine. The galingale is described by Saverly as a plant of the Sedge family (allied to ginger), the root having “ an agreeable spicy odour, in which it resembles the roots of some East Indian grasses that, w'hen moistened, are used by the English to perfume their houses.” Parkinson, in 1650, mentions it as employed in cookery and confectionery, but he also states that its culinary use was then dying out. The change from galin-gale to Galan-tine is simple enough, the terminal “gale” signifying growing in marshy places, and the word “tine” is readily associated with a fork. But it may be argued that the Galyntyne of King Richard’s cooks could not allude to forks for several reasons: first, because they were not invented in those days, and secondly because the Galyntyne was merely a sauce or seasoning. Then we refer to the obsolete word “ tine,” which signified a prickly hedge; the Galyntyne was of a sharp, prickly, or stinging character, almost as hot as some curry powders, and thus again the derivation of Galantine from galingale is established. Fig. 817. Galantine. As we have before shown, the original Galantine was little else than a hot, spicy sauce; as we know it now it is a dish of solid, boned, freely-seasoned meat, tied in a cloth (see Fig. 817) and served cold. Some fine receipts for preparing these will be found under numerous special headings. GALETTES.—Flat cakes or biscuits, which are made either to correspond with a hard, plain sea-biscuit, or, more recently, a rich, light paste cake. The French have a custom of eating Galettes on Epiphany Day, and it is then usual to hide a bean in the cake, the finder being affected with certain luck or privileges. The following receipts are contributed by French pastry- cooks : (1) Sift 1 Jib. of flour on to a board, make a bay in the centre, put in Jib. of slig-htly-warmed butter, a little salt, and J pint of cold water. Work the butter well with the water, gradually mixing in the flour so as to give it the consistency of puff paste. Let it remain for fifteen minutes, and in the meantime work Jib. of butter in a cloth until it is quite firm, then give it a flat square shape. Make the paste into a flat square shape also, put the square of butter on it, and cover it over with the edges of the paste that project; give it five turns like puff paste, and at the lastTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 661 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Galettes— continued. turn make it about lin. in thickness. Cut it into a round shape with scalloped edges (see Fig. 818), put it upside down on a baking-sheet, brush it over with egg, and mark it in lines with a sharp knife. Bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes, and just before taking it out sprinkle over with sugar-glaze, and it is ready for use. fSIz'F-. Fig. 818. Galette. (2) Dissolve 3oz. of butter in 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and mix in lib. of flour to make a smooth paste. Warm another teacupful of milk, stir into it loz. of German yeast, pour this into another ^lb. of flour, and work to a dough. Put the two together into one basin, add thi-ee or four eggs, one at a time, and mix well with the hand for a-quarter-of-an- hour, until it is quite light. Cover over and put it in a warm place to rise for an-hour-and-a-half or two hours. Turn it out on to a well-floured board, work it well again, and add 2oz. each of sugar, citron-peel, and sultana raisins cut up small. Butter some baking-tins, put in the mixture, brush over the surface with milk, decorate with slices of candied citron, dust over a little sugar, and put them in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently light, set them in the oven and bake until done. (3) Put H teacupfuls of milk and 1 teacupful of water into a small saucepan, and place this over the fire until warm; put loz. of German yeast with \ table-spoonful of sugar into a basin, pour in the milk and water, and stir them until dissolved; then mix in slowly sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. Cover the basin, and stand it in a warm place until the dough has well risen, which will take two or three hours. Place lib. of flour in another basin with seven eggs and 1 teacupful of milk, and beat all well together with the hand for twenty minutes. Put the dough when sufficiently risen in with the flour and eggs, and work the whole together until incorporated. Cover the basin, and set the contents to rise for two hours in a warm place; then turn it on to a paste-board, and knead it slightly with a little more flour. Divide it into small quantities, mould them to an egg shape with the hands, mark them across with the blunt edge of a knife, lay them on a floured baking- sheet, a short distance from each other, and let them rise for about fifteen minutes. Bake them in a brisk oven for ten minutes, strew caster sugar over, and bake for ten minutes longer. Serve hot or cold. (4) Rub 6oz. of butter in jib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt and two well-beaten eggs. Knead the mixture, put it on a floured paste-board, and roll it out to about fin. in thickness and of a round shape. Butter a baking-sheet, place the Galette on it, and bake in a brisk oven. Slightly warm loz. of butter, and beat into it one egg and 1 teacupful of cream. When the Galette is nearly cooked, spread the cream mixture over, return it to the oven, and finish baking’. Serve cold. GALL.—Those cooks who have accidentally made the acquaintance of this bitter fluid will have some knowledge of its terrific pungency. If in cleaning a fowl or any other creature possessing a liver, the Gall-bladder happens to be broken, it is next to impossible to rid the flesh of its taste; the greatest care therefore is neces- sary when handling a liver, and the cook must use the knife unsparingly to cut away all the liver that is stained by proximity to the Gall-bladder, which is intimately connected with it and situated immediately beneath it Gall—continued. (see Fig. 819). At one time the Gall of various animals was administered to patients for the supposed cure of sundry diseases. Fig. 819. Liver and Gall attached. GALLIMAWFRIES.—This is said to be a corrup- tion of the French word galimafree (hotch-potch), but an enthusiastic etymologist, who has found it sufficiently interesting to spend much time in tracing back the origin of obscure kitchen terms, pronounces the French word to be a corruption of the English. In either case the modern meaning may be considered to be the same, namely, a combination of many things without regard to order or reason. The following receipt may be regarded as a very fair specimen of a Gallimawfry: Cut up any cold batter or suet pudding, bacon, ham, and any vegetables into small pieces, put them all into a frying- pan with a little hot dripping, together with lib. of cold meat cut moderately small, a seasoning of pepper and salt, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, chopped onion, vinegar, flour, and sugar. Mix well over the fire, fry, and serve hot. GALLING.—The Italian for a very delicious dish of curds and whey, the milk being turned by using an infusion of the gizzards of turkeys or fowls. The term is derived from gallina—a hen. The Gallino liquor is prepared as follows : Take the rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys or fowls, clean them free from sand and pebbles, rub them with salt, and hang them up to dry. When required for use, break off bits of this skin and put it over the fire in boiling water for eight or nine hours, then the liquor is fit to be used as other rennet. GALLON.—A measure of capacity equalling 4qts. See Weights and Measures. GALONJ.—The Spanish term for small cakes, gene- rally used for garnishing entremets. They should be thin, light, and cut in fanciful shapes, so as to have the appearance of lace when set round as a garnish. They are best prepared as follows: Rub jib. of butter into ^lb. of flour, and mix in two well- beaten eggs and a little salt. Work this thoroughly for forty-five minutes or so, put it on a floured board, roll it out thin, and cut it up with fancy-shaped biscuit-cutters. Plunge the pieces into a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry till done, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, dust over with sugar, and they are ready for use. GAME (Fr. Gibier; Ger. Wildpret; Ital. Cacciagione ; Sp. Caza).—This may be correctly described as anything that has been hunted by sportsmen, the term being one of very ancient use in this country as applied to sport or amusement. Any bird or annual which is shot or snared for amusement belongs by right to the title of Game, but according as such birds or animals have proved their gastronomic value, so in proportion have they com- manded the attention of land-owners, by whom the laws of the country are greatly influenced, resulting in Game Laws which afford the greater protection to those birdsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. G62 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. or animals which are most prized for the table. Correctly j speaking, the term Game should be applied to all wild J animals, wild birds, and fish; but at present in England 1 rabbits are not reckoned Game ; sea-fisli are exempt from the title, and so also are a number of wild birds that are quite entitled to the name if their being shot for sport is of any consequence at all, very few of them being shot for any other purpose. What is strictly speaking Game is defined by the Game j Laws, without regard to culinary merits; but, as before explained, it is to their culinary merits that certain kinds of Game owe their prominence in the laws made for their protection, hence we are not surprised to read in the pages of a severely technical Cyclopedia that, “ The flesh of Game is believed to possess strengthening qualities superior to that of poultry (or other birds). It also con- tains less fat. Game is tender and easy of digestion, and it has a delicate and marked flavour. It forms a valuable diet for the invalid, by reason of its easy diges- tibility.” It is evident that the writer uses the term Game as applied to a select few, rather than in a general sense of sport, and this has become the order of the day, the sense of taste having influenced the laws of the country to narrow the intention and signification of an English word until its application has become more select than accurate. For any further description of Game, the times when they are in season, and their culinary preparation, refer- ence must be made to special headings; but there are so many receipts in which any kind of flesh with a gamy flavour can be used that it has been found advisable to give them under this heading. Those celebrated Game pies, for instance, which are so justly famous all over the civilised world, contain all sorts and conditions of Game, hence they cannot possibly claim to come under any special heading. They are usually put into ornamental crusts ; but as the crust is not always eaten with the meat, a clever inventor has manufactured earthenware Fig. 820. Fire-proof China Game Pie-Moulds with Loose Covers (Temple and Crook). dishes (see Fig. 820) to resemble pie-crust, in which the Game can be cooked almost as a galantine. These are really excellent imitations, and cause much amusement when the guest attempts to cut through the “crust” rather than lift the lid. But the cook should be careful to point out the deceit to the host or hostess, that the pie may not be discarded and the cook discredited. Modern Continental cooks are very fond of using what they term “ fumet de gibier” (flavour of Game); and so important does this fumet appear to be that they have extended the application almost indefinitely. See Fumet. Game fumet may be of either partridge, pheasant, hare, or venison, and it would require a very delicate sense to distinguish one from the other, seeing that until cooked Game has little or no flavour and not much smell; but when cooked what is termed the Game flavour is to be distinguished, modified according to the style of cooking. Moreover, the strength of the Game fumet depends upon the advance of decomposition, so that a good “ fumet de gibier ” may safely be obtained from any Game available. Game—continued. Bouchees of Game.—Put 2\ breakfast-cupfuls of Game sauce into a stewpan with the flesh of any cold cooked Game cut up small; stir them over the fire till hot, season with salt and a small quantity of sugar, then move the pan to the side. Roll out lib. of puff paste to fin. in thickness, cut out some rounds with a fluted tin cutter about l|in. in diameter, sprinkle water over a baking-sheet, lay the rounds on it, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. With a plain tin cutter, a size smaller than the one previously used, mark a ring on the top of each piece of paste, dipping the cutter into hot water every time. Bake the paste in a quick oven for twenty minutes, keeping the oven-door closed. When cooked, take the bouchees out of the oven, and with a sharp-pointed knife lift off the lids as carefully as possible so as not to break them ; scrape out the soft paste, thus leaving a hollow, fill them with the Game, put on the lids, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve. Cliaudfroid Game Sauce.—Boil 1)- pints of Spanish sauce with £ breakfast-cupful of essence of any Game. When stiffly reduced, mix with the sauce 2 table-spoonfuls of brown aspic jelly cut up into small pieces, stir the sauce till the jelly is dissolved, then strain it through a silk sieve, and it is ready for use. Cream of Game.—Chop and remove the skin from about 21b. of any boiled Game ; pound it to a paste in a mortar, then put it into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, a bunch of sweet herbs, a dozen peppercorns, three or four cloves, 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and 3 pints of broth. Boil for half-an-hour, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and mix 1 teacupful of cream with it. Serve in a tureen with about 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked Game cut into small pieces. Devilled Game.—(1) Clean and prepare any Game in season, and half roast it. Mix equal quantities of salt, cayenne, and curry powder, and then add double this quantity of powdered dried truffles. Put the entrails and brains of the bird in a mortar, crush them well, and add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, the grate 1 rind of a lemon, 1 dessert-spoonful of chutney, a little soy, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 wine- glassful of Madeira, and the juice of half an orange or lemon. Dust the bird over with the powder, put it in a dish with the brain mixture, place the dish over a spirit-lamp, cover tightly, and cook until the flesh is thoroughly incorporated with the mixture. Now add a little salad-oil, let it get hot, turn out on to a dish, and serve as soon as possible. (2) Any kind of Game, such as snipe, wild duck, woodcock, &c., can be used. Mix 1 teaspoonful of salt with 1 dessert- spoonful of cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, and sufficient made mustard to form a paste. Split the bird, and cover it with the mustard paste. Take out the brains of the bird, put it in a mortar, and make it into a mass by adding the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, half a blade of mace, 1 salt- spoonful of grated lemon-peel, also a little essence of anchovies, ketchup, or any other flavouring; then add 1 wineglassful of wine, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne, 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar, and the juice of a lemon or orange. Put this mixture into a dish, place the bird on it, add a small lump of butter well rolled in flour, put a cover over the dish, and shake it over a very slow fire or lamp until the greater part of the sauce is absorbed. Place the bird on a dish, pour round the sauce, and serve. Fillets of Game in Cases.—(1) Make some cases of white paper, butter them, and put a piece of bacon-fat in each. Cut any cold roasted Game into slices, put them in the cases, place a little bacon-fat over each, strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and bake them in a brisk oven until browned. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, arrange the cases on it, placing here and there small bunches of fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut into fillets as much cooked Game as is required ; put them separately into cooked paste cases, lay them in pyramid form, sticking them together with glaze, decorate with shapes of different coloured aspic jelly, and serve. (3) Cut the flesh of any Game into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over the fire until half cooked ; then take them out and let them get cold. Grease some sheets of paper with butter orTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 663 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. lard, put a slice of bacon on each, then a slice of meat, next a layer of Game forcemeat, and lastly another slice of bacon. Fold the paper carefully over the meat, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire until browned on both sides. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fumet of Game.—Peel one carrot and half an onion, cut them into slices, and put them with half a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, a little chopped raw lean ham, and the carcase of any kind of raw Game in a covered saucepan. Let them brown, add 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and boil; then moisten with lqt. of white broth or consomme, and add 1 pinch of salt and twelve whole peppers. Cook well for forty-five minutes, then pass through a broth-napkin, and preserve in a jar. Game in Aspic Jelly.—Put into a saucepan 21b. of knuckle of veal, one lean rasher of ham, a sprig of thyme, a couple of sprigs of parsley, half-a-dozen white peppercorns, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and one shallot chopped up fine ; pour over them 3 pints of cold water, put the saucepan over the fire, and simmer till the liquor is reduced to 1 pint, then strain it through a sieve and let it stand all night. Next day take off all the fat. Put loz. of isinglass into a basin, pour over it i pint of cold water, and let it soak three hours; then pour over it nearly lqt. of boiling water, stirring it quickly till quite dissolved. Add the veal gravy, which should be a stiff jelly, and when this also is dissolved add 1 table-spoon- ful of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of lemon-juice and red- currant jelly dissolved in a little cold water and strained through muslin. Keep stirring till all these are thoroughly mixed, then strain through a jelly-bag without squeezing or shaking. Have ready some hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and some slices of cold roasted Game sprinkled with a little salt. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour in a thin layer of jelly, and when it stiffens lay over it rings or slices of the eggs overlapping one another like a chain, then pour in more jelly; when stiff enough, lay over slices of meat, then more jelly, and so on till the mould is quite full. Let it stand ail night, turn it out next day, and serve. Game and Chestnut Forcemeat Balls with Supreme Sauce.—Mince some cold roasted Game, and mix with half its quantity of minced ham. Peel fifty chestnuts, and boil them in white stock until tender; then pass them through a fine wire sieve, and mix with the mince ; stir in also a beaten egg and a small quantity of cream; if the mixture is not thick enough, add a little flour. Dredge flour over a table or board, and divide the mixture into balls. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs, roll the balls in them, then in sifted biscuit-crumbs, and fry in boiling butter or clarified fat. When browned, drain them on a sheet of paper; season the whites of the eggs with salt and whip them to a stiff froth, cover each ball with it, and put them in the oven for a minute or two to set the egg. Cover the bottom of a hot dish with supreme sauce, strew minced parsley over it, and lay the balls carefully on. Serve hot. Game Consomme.—Prepare a rabbit and two partridges 01- other Game, remove their flesh in strips, and put them into a stoekpot with 21b. of knuckle of veal and 5qts. of stock. Set the pot on the fire and let its contents boil, skim well, and put in two carrots, two onions, one stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, three leeks, one head of celery, and |oz. of salt. Place the pot on the side of the fire, simmer for two hours, then pass the consomme through a cloth, and clarify it with the meat of the Game pounded. Strain again, and it is then ready for use. Game Cromeskies. -(1) Cut the meat off the bones of any kind of cold Game into small pieces, and pound them in a mortar with a small quantity of butter; when smooth, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered mixed spices. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the pounded mixture and stir well over the fire. Mix in, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs beaten up together with the juice of half a lemon; spread the mixture on a dish, and when cold, divide it into small equal-sized portions, and Wrap each tightly up in a thin rasher of partially-boiled Game—continued. bacon. Prepare a good frying-batter with the yolks of two eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and a sufficient quantity of cold water. Put a good-sized lump of lard or butter in a flat stewpan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises dip the cromeskies in the batter, put them into the fat, and fry until equally browned. When they are cooked, take them out of the pan and lay them on a sheet of paper to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot Fig. 821. Game Cromeskies. dish, arrange the cromeskies on it (see Fig. 821), and serve very hot. (2) Free from skin and gristle any cold remains of Game, and chop the flesh; put it in a stewpan with two or three finely-minced truffles, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; moisten with a small quantity of stock, and stir the mixture over the fire until hot. Move the stewpan to the edge of the fire and stir in the yolk of one eg-g beaten up together with a small quantity of lemon-juice. Spread the mixture on a dish, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Trim off all the skin, fat, and gristle from some fillets of cold Game, and cut the flesh into small pieces; cut an equal quantity of truffles in the same way, and mix both together with some Spanish sauce that has been stiffly reduced with essence of truffles. Boil an udder of veal in a stoekpot, leave it till cool, then trim and cut it length- wise into thin slices. Put portions of the Game about 2in. long and lin. wide on the slices of udder, wrap the udder Fig. 822. Game Cromesky. round them, and roll into shapes (see Fig-. 822). Dip them in frying-batter, coating them well with it, and proceed as for No. 1. Game Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop the white flesh of any cold roasted Game; melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, and mix with it 1 scant table-spoonful of flour, then put in the minced Game, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity, of grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire until very hot, then move it to the side, and mix in the beaten yolks of one or two eggs and the strained juice of half a lemon. Spread the mixture on a dish and leave it until nearly cold. Divide and mould the mixture into small balls, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in fine breadcrumbs, covering them. Put a large piece of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when the fat boils put in the croquettes and fry them until nicely and equally browned. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the croquettes on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Take as much meat of cold grouse, quail, or any other wild birds as will with their giblets fill a breakfast- cup. Pound the giblets in a mortar, first removing all skin and gristle, moisten with gravy, and continue pounding till quite smooth; season with pepper and salt, and then mix in a well-beaten egg. Mince the meat and mix it in, then work in loz. of sifted breadcrumbs. Form this paste into rolls about the thickness of two fingers, and about 3in. long; brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted664 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling dripping. Serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. Game Cutlets.—(1) Cut the flesh from any cold cooked Game into dice. Soak -Joz. of gelatine for an-hour-and-a-half in a breakfast-cupful of water. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan; when it is hot, add 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix well until brown and quite smooth, add 1 pint of rich stock, one egg, four cloves, 1 table-spoonful of onion-juice, and salt and pepper to taste; simmer for ten minutes, and pour it over the Game. Return all to the pan and simmer for a- quarter-of-an-hour longer. Beat one egg in a basin, add it to the gelatine, stir it into the mixture, and remove from the fire at once. Put the pan into a larger one with cold water, so that it will cool, stirring well. Turn the mixture when cold into a shallow baking-dish, smoothing it to about tin. in thickness, and set it on the ice to get hard; cut it into cutlet shapes with a knife that has been dipped in water, then place the dish in another one of warm water to loosen the cutlets from the bottom. Prepare lqt. of Game forcemeat, cover the cutlets over with it, and return them to the ice again. Beat two eggs in a basin, remove the cutlets from the ice, and cover them over with the eggs and afterwards with breadcrumbs; put two or three at a time into a frying-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry for two minutes; take them out, drain, and put them on brown paper until drained. Stick a bone in the end of each Fig. 823. Game Cutlet. (see Fig. 823), garnish it with a paper frill, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, and serve with parsley. (2) Take any cooked or uncooked Game, the latter for preference, cut it into large pieces, remove the bones, egg the pieces over first, and then cover with breadcrumbs; put them over a brisk fire, and broil; or fry them in butter. When done, pile them on a dish, pour over a little lemon- juice, and serve with gravy (made with the trimmings and bones) poured round. Game Forcemeat.—Take any cold cooked Game, remove all the flesh from the bones, weigh it, and for every pound of meat add 4oz. of fat bacon, a little shallot, capers, a few leaves of tarragon, and a little lemon-peel, all finely minced. Put some crumb of bread into a basin with a little milk ; when it has absorbed sufficient of it, take it out and squeeze dry, adding it to the mixture with the yolks of three eggs. Sprinkle over pepper to taste, and mix in the whites of three eggs whipped to a froth. It is then ready for use. If unsalted bacon is used, very little dried salt must be added. Game Glaze.—Bone about 31b. each of fillet of veal, knuckle of veal, and gravy-beef; fasten each round securely with string, put them into a stockpot with three partridges, plucked, drawn and singed, and two skinned and cleaned rabbits. Pour over 5qts. of stock, bring it to the boil, add a seasoning of Jib. each of carrots, leeks, and onions, together with a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until all the meat is thoroughly cooked. Remove the meat from the pot, strain the liquor through a cloth into a glazing-stewpan, place it on the fire, and boil until it is reduced to one-third its original quantity, then pour it into a bowl. Leave it for a day, scrape off the surface to about Jin. in depth, take out the clear glaze, leaving the sediment at the bottom, put it back into the glazing-stewpan, and boil over a quick fire until it is reduced to the thickness of Spanish sauce, taking care to stir con- tinually. Pour it into a basin, and it is then ready for use. None of the ingredients need be wasted, for the meat can be used as hash or fricassee, or any other desired way, and the trimmings of the glaze for preparing stock. Game—continued. Game Gravy for Mutton.—Pluck and draw a very high woodcock or snipe, cut it in pieces, together with its entrails (with the bag taken out), put it in a saucepan with sufficient plain and unseasoned meat-gravy to a little more than cover, and simmer gently for several hours ; then strain, and serve. This gravy if used for mutton that has been kept for some time will give it a strong venison flavour. Game Pie.—(1) Rub 4oz. of butter into 12oz. of flour, and make it into a paste by adding one egg, half of which may be beaten up with water sufficient to make the paste firm and consistent. Knead it thoroughly, and cut off a piece about the size of a large apple to form the lid of the Fig. 821. Raised-pie Moulds (Adams and Son). pie. Butter a raised-pie mould (see Fig. 824), line it with the paste, pressing it into shape, and cut it round at the top, leaving about Jin. above the mould. Clean and wash any Game, such as grouse, partridge, pheasant, or hare, cut them up, and take out all the bones; chop up the hearts and livers, mix in lib. of sausage-meat and 2oz. of bread- crumbs, blend all together, working with the hand, and adding pepper and salt to taste. When thoroughly mixed, put a layer of it at the bottom of the mould, then half of a bird, and sprinkle it over with 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper and J salt- spoonful of grated nutmeg ; cover with another layer of the sausage-meat, together with a few halves of truffles and square pieces of cooked ox-tongue, then another half bird, and continue in this order until the mould is quite full. Damp the edges of the crust with a wet paste-brush, cover over with the paste lid, press the edges together to anneal them, trim round the edge, decorate the top with paste leaves or flowers, brush over with egg, make a hole in the centre, and put the pie in a moderate oven for about an-hour-and-a-half. Put the bones in a small saucepan with a little water or bi-oth, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half, that is, whilst the pie is baking; strain this gravy, and pour it into the pie, when it is done, through a funnel inserted into the hole ; remove the mould shape, and when the pie is cold, take off the lid, fill it up with chopped aspic jelly, put it on a dish, garnish with more of the jelly, and serve. (2) Bone some Game, such as partridges, woodcocks, and snipe, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, and lard all the breast pieces with thin fillets of fat bacon. Partially boil the livers of the birds, then chop them, put them in a mortar with an equal quantity each of bacon and lean cooked veal, also chopped, and pound the whole until smooth, adding about 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs moistened with clear stock, a small quantity of partially-boiled and chopped onion, and loz. of butter. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, then work in with it sufficient beaten yolks of eggs to bind it. Butter the interior of a raised pie-mould, line it with short-paste, crimp the edges at the top, mask all round and at the bottom with thin rashers of bacon, fill up with the pieces of Game, truffles cooked in white wine, mushrooms cooked in lemon-juice, and fill up the spaces with the forcemeat. Cover the pie with paste, make a hole in the centre, put a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and bake for about four hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour in through the hole at the top of the pie some liquid aspic jelly, and carefully665 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respiting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. remove the mould. On the following day lift the cover off the pie, and place over the top a layer of chopped aspic jelly. Serve on a dish garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. (3) Bone a partridge and a quail, and prepare a rich force- meat as used for stuffing turkeys. Make a good rich paste. Select a raised pie-mould, and spread it very thickly with cold butter. Roll out a large round of the paste about Jin. thick, set the mould on a buttered plate, and lay the paste in it, using the fingers to press it quite firmly into every depression of the mould; trim it just above the upper rim, so that the upper crust may be laid against it. Line the bottom and sides of the mould with forcemeat, fill the quail with the forcemeat, and put it into the partridge, filling the space between the two birds with more of the forcemeat; then lay the partridge in the mould, and fill the empty portion with more forcemeat. Wet the upper edge of the side crust with cold water where it lies, over the rim of the mould, and put on a thick upper crust. Cut or ornament the surface, making holes for the escape of steam, brush it with beaten egg, and cover with buttered paper. Bake slowly for three hours, then brown it, and serve either hot or cold. (4) Prepare and bone a partridge, a grouse, and a medium- sized rabbit, and fillet them. Place the pieces of meat in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter, season with salt, pepper, and thyme, and cook on a brisk fire for one minute on each side. Add J wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce to one-half its original bulk, which will take about five minutes; turn the whole into a bowl and let it cool. Chop the bones into pieces, place them in a saucepan with one medium-sized sliced onion, a small sliced carrot, one bay-leaf, three cloves, twelve whole peppers, and a blade of thyme; cook with loz. of butter until the mixture is of a light brown colour, and add 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, half a medium-sized lemon cut in slices, lqt. of white broth, and 2oz. of gelatine. Cook for one hour longer; strain through a napkin or fine sieve into a bowl, and set it aside to cool. Chop fine Jib. of very lean veal, Jib. of pork (not salted), and 6oz. of larding pork, and season with salt and pepper. Cut into dice-shaped pieces eight truffles and 3oz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue ; mix well, and it will be ready for use. Knead well together on a table or board Jib. of Fig. 825. Game Pie. flour and Jib. of butter, gradually add 1 gill of cold water, mixing well for five minutes at least without ceasing ; put it in a cool place, and leave for ten minutes before using. Lightly butter the interior of a plain mould, roll out three-quarters of the paste to Jin. thick, and with it evenly line the inside of tho mould, taking special care not to make any holes. Cut some very thin slices of larding-pork, and mask the paste all round with it. Put in one layer of the forcemeat and one layer of the Game, and so on, until all is used. Make a hollow in the centre down to half the depth of the pie. Roll out the other quarter of paste to an equal thickness, and with it cover the pie, making a small hole in the centre. Decorate the surface with leaves made out of paste, and glaze it with the yolk of an egg beaten up with J gill of cold water. Place it in a moderate oven to cook for two hours ; remove it, pour in the cold gravy through the hole in the top, and set it away in an ice-box for six or seven hours. It must be served as cold as possible, and may be elaborately garnished with aspic jelly, or Game tim- bales, &c. (see Fig. 825). Game—continued. (5) Roll out the required quantity of paste to lin. in thickness, forming it into two oval pieces, one for the top and the other for the bottom, and the remainder into a long strip to form a wall for the pie. Brush the bottom piece over with well-beaten white of egg, place the wall piece round the edge, pinching it so as to make it adhere, and taking care to have it firmly joined all round. Parboil a smoked ox-tongue; bone a goose and fowl, and season with grated nutmeg, powdered mace, and salt and pepper. Place the goose in the pie, then put in the fowl, and lastly the tongue, filling up the spaces between them with any pieces of Game, but without bones. Cover over with 8oz. of butter cut in thin slices, and put on the top crust, keeping it ljin. bnlow the wall crust. Fix the sides to tho top, decorate the pie all over with flowers and leaves made of paste, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, fasten round with two folds of white paper, and bake for four hours. In cold weather the pie, if kept from the air, will keep good for three weeks. (6) Russian.—Put lOoz. of rice into a saucepan of water, boil it until quite soft, drain off all the water, add a lump of butter, and stir well for about ten minutes. Put a thin flat of short-paste on a well-buttered round baking- sheet, cover this over with a layer of veal, bacon, and calf's liver in equal proportions, all finely minced and cooked, over this put a layer of the rice, then again a layer of minced and cooked fillets of partridge or phe.isant, cover this over again with a layer of the minced veal and bacon, and lastly with a flat of puff paste. Decorate the sui'face with leaves cut in paste, brush over the top with egg, channel the edges, put it in a quick oven, and bake for about three-quarters-of- an-hour. Slip it carefully on to a dish, and serve with rich brown sauce in a sauceboat. Game in Rice Patties.—Thoroughly wash lib. of rice, and boil it in salted water until soft. Afterwards strain off the water, leave the rice at the edge of the fire, and moisten occasionally with milk or stock until it will not absorb any more. Mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, season with a small quantity of pepper, and beat it to a paste. Turn the rice on to a dish, spread it out to about 2in. in thickness, and leave it until quite cold. When ready, cut the rice into rounds with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread- crumbs. With a smaller tin cutter, one about l|in. in diameter, cut half through the centre of each round. Put a lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, and when it is boiling put in the patties, and fry them until browned. Drain them, lift up the piece marked by the smaller cutter, and scoop out some of the rice. Fill them with a puree of Game arrange them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Game Rissoles.—Put 12oz. of brioche paste or puff paste on a board, roll it out very thin, and place over it, about 2in. apart, some small pieces of Game forcemeat. Fold the paste over so as to cover the forcemeat, cut the rissoles asunder with a tin cutter, brush them over with egg, put them on a baking’-sheet, and let them rise. When ready, plunge them into a frying-pan with boiling fat, and fry until they are well coloured. Take them out with a skimmer, drain on a cloth, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with parsley for garnish. Game Salad.—(1) Chop separately the required quantity of beetroots, carrots, and whites of hard-boiled eggs. Rub the bottom of a salad-bowl with onion, and pour over a little lemon-juice. Chop and pound some watercress, mixing it with an equal quantity of butter, and form into small balls ; repeat the operation with 1 table-spoonful of the chopped carrot and 2oz. of butter. Put some slices of cold cooked Game at the bottom of a dish, decorate with the chopped vegetables, including a good supply of lettuce-leaves and other vegetables in season, pour over a tartar sauce, sprinkle over the chopped egg, over this put a few slices of beetroot, decorate the edge of the dish with the balls of butter, pour round a mayonnaise dressing, and serve. (2) Trim off all the skin from the flesh of any kind of cold roasted Game, cut the meat into small pieces, put it in a basin, mix with it a moderate quantity of chopped herbs and oil, and season with salt and pepper. Stir all well together,666 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—continued. turn the mixture on to a dish, garnish round with a circle of chopped aspic jelly, and pour a mayonnaise dressing over . it. Decorate tastefully with fillets of anchovies, pickled gherkins, capers, slices of hard-boiled eggs, and branches of tarragon and chervil. Serve as soon as completed. Game Salad a la Polonaise.—Trim off the skin from the required quantity of cold roasted Game, and cut it into small squares ; put them in a salad-bowl with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced chives, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, salt and pepper to taste, and vinegar and oil in equal quantities. Boil three eggs for three minutes, peel off the shells, and put the yolks in with the meat, stirring well; finely chop the whites, and strew them over the top. Garnish round the salad with endive, or white leaves of lettuce, and serve. Game Souffles.—Out off about 21b. of flesh from any cold roasted Game, trim off the skin, chop the flesh, pound it in a mortar, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix f pint of Spanish sauce with 1 teacupful of essence of fowls, and boil it till reduced one-third. Mix the pounded Game in the sauce, and leave it till cold. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, and mix them with the puree ; whip the whites of the egg's to a stiff froth, add them to the mixture, and season with a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Fill some small paper cases with the mixture, put them into a quick oven, and bake for Fig. 825. Game Souffles. fifteen minutes. Place the cases on a dish, garnish with fried parsley and slices of lemons (see Fig. 826), and serve immediately. Game Soup.—(1) Put the carcases and remains of any cold cooked Game into a stewpan with two or three peeled carrots and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices. Cover the whole with plenty of stock, and simmer gently for three or four hours. When sufficiently boiled, strain the liquor into a basin; pick off all the meat that can be got from the bones, and pound it in a mortar ; soak half its bulk of breadcrumbs in a little of the liquor, and when soft mix them with the meat. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, put it in a saucepan with the strained liquor, add more seasoning if necessary, and boil. Beat the yolks of two eggs and 1 wineglassful of sherry, strain them, and stir in with the soup, first moving the sauce- pan to the side of the fire. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried in butter. (2) Put the remains of any kind of cold cooked Game into a saucepan with a cow-heel cut up into moderate-sized pieces, a knuckle of ham, two or three onions and carrots, a stick or two of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf tied together, a blade of mace, five or six cloves, and salt to taste. Pour in plenty of cold water, and when boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for three or four hours. Skim and strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and place it over the fire. When boiling, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of coarsely-chopped beef and 1 wineglassful of sherry, simmer for two or three minutes, then strain it into a soup-tureen, and serve with pieces of toast or bread fried in butter. (3) Cut up any remains of cold Game, provided it is not high, put them in a saucepan with two or three peeled carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, including a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper, a few cloves, and half a blade of mace, pour in a sufficient Game—continued. quantity of veal or fowl stock to cover, leave it over the fire until it comes to the boil, then move to the side, and simmer for two hours. Skim and strain the soup, return it to the saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of coarsely-chopped fowl’s liver, and boil for five minutes. Strain the soup through a napkin until quite clear, boil it up again, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve hot with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (4) Cut off the meat of any cold cooked Game, put the trimmings with the bones into a stewpan, add 2oz. of chopped lean ham, three g'reen onions, salt and pepper to taste, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 3 pints of clear veal stock. Keep the whole boiling gently at the side of the fire until all the goodness is extracted from the bones, then skim the soup, and strain it into another saucepan. Put the pieces of meat into a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pound them until smooth ; next mix in gradually with them 1 pint of strong beef gravy, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into the soup. Stir over the fire until boiling again, then turn it into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. (5) Take the meat from the breasts of any cold cooked Game, and pound it. Break the legs and bones to pieces, and boil them in stock for an hour. Peel, wash, and boil half-a-dozen turnips, mash them, and, with the pounded meat, rub them through a fine sieve: strain the broth from the bones, &c., and keep adding a little to the turnip and pounded meat in the sieve, to assist it through. When it is all strained, put it into the soup-kettle near the fire where it will keep hot without boiling. Mix and beat up the yolks of six eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and just before serving put the soup over the fire ; let it get very hot but not boiling, stir in the eggs-and-cream with a wooden spoon, let it almost but not quite boil, pour into the tureen, and serve. Game Stock.-—Put two Game carcases and 1 pint of mirepoix in a saucepan, cover with water, add 1 pinch of salt, cook for twenty minutes, and it is ready for use when needed. Minced Game.—(1) Mince any cold cooked Game, season it highly with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, put it into a saucepan with a few table-spoonfuls of stock, not making it too liquid, and add one egg; stir over the fire until it be- comes a thick paste, making it a rich brown with a little burnt sugar or caramel. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and pour over it some rich thickened brown gravy. Pass the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs through a wire sieve over the mince, garnish with cocks’ combs coloured red by boiling them in water and cochineal, small bunches of watercress, and slices of lemon. Serve hot. (2) Trim off the skin and sinews and finely chop the breast of any cooked Game. Put it into a saucepan with a little cold water and salt, stir until boiling, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Serve hot. Minced Game with. Tomato Sauce. -Finely chop any white flesh of cold cooked Game ; put loz. of butter in a stewpan, and when melted mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, add the Game, moisten with a small quantity of rich gravy, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Simmer gently at the side of the fire, then mix with it some tomato sauce. A beaten egg may be stirred up with the Game if liked. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Potted Game.—(1) Free the remains of some cold cooked Game from skin and outside parts, chop the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound quite smooth. Mix with it about a third of its bulk of fresh butter, and season to taste with pounded mace, pepper, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into small jars, cover, and tie down. (2) Any remains of cold cooked Game can be used. Pick out all the tender meat, free it from skin and bone, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of finely-chopped fat ham, and pound well. Season to taste with powdered mace, allspice, cayenne, salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of caster sugar. Butter may be used in place of the ham if more convenient. Bub the mixture through a fine wire sieve, pack it tightly in earthenware jars, pour over melted lard, and keep in a dry cupboard.667 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. Game—co n tinned. Ravioles of Game in Consomme.—Remove the skin and sinews from two fillets of any uncooked Game, chop them up, and pound in a mortar with half their bulk each of cooked calf’s brains, raw ox-marrow, and grated Parmesan cheese. Add the yolks of two eggs to form the mass into a stiff paste, and with it prepare sixty or seventy ravioles. Plunge them into a saucepan of boiling wrater, boil for one or two minutes, remove the pan from the fire, cover it over, and let the ravioles remain for another two or three minutes. Take them out, drain, put them in a soup-tureen, pour over 2qts. or 3qts. of hot Game consomme, and serve. Salmis of Game.—(1) Cut the meat from some cold roasted Game into small pieces; break the bones and put them with the trimmings in a stewpan, add 1 pinch of sweet herbs, two cloves, two peppercorns, and some cold water, set them on the fire, and boil. Fry two small sliced onions in butter till brown, sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir till cooked. Strain the liquor in which the bones were boiled, mix with it the flour and onions, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester- shire sauce, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, 1 pinch of salt, and the pieces of meat. Simmer for fifteen minutes, and add a few button-mushrooms. Fry some slices of bread without crust in butter, put them on a hot dish, pour over the salmis, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Take off all the skin and cut the meat from any cold roasted Game into neat joints or slices. Put all the skin, fat, and trimmings into a saucepan with 1 pint of gravy, a couple of onions sliced and fried in butter, a bunch of parsley, savory and marjoram, four or five cloves, a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and simmer for an hour. Take it from the fire, and let it stand till the fat rises; then skim, strain, and return it to the saucepan on the fire, and when it is very hot stir in l|oz. of butter and sufficient browned flour to thicken it. Continue to stir till it boils, and let it boil hard for five minutes; then put in the pieces of Game, and do not let it boil again, but place the saucepan in a pan of boiling water or bain-marie for ten minutes. Lay the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with pieces of fried bread, and serve hot. (3) Cut off the legs, wings, and breasts of any half-roasted Game, and trim them, taking off every bit of skin. Cut Jib. of lean raw ham into very small squares, put it into a saucepan with two dozen button-mushrooms, 2oz. of sliced carrot, four chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, a couple of sprigs of thyme, sixteen or eighteen peppercorns, four cloves, and a bunch of parsley, also 2oz. of butter; put the saucepan over the fire, and stew, stirring frequently for a short time ; then mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, let it brown a little, and add by degrees £ pint of veal broth and J pint of sherry. Bruise the carcases of the birds, put them and the trimmings of the joints into this gravy, and boil for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Strain the gravy, skim off the fat, pour it over the Game, place it over the fire, let it get very hot, but remove from the fire before the gravy boils. Lay the meat on a hot dish, pour over the gravy, garnish with small pieces of fried bread placed round the edge of the dish, and serve hot. Vol -au-Vent of Cold Game.—Cut the meat from any cold cooked Game into small pieces, and mix with it an equal quantity of cold ham or ox-tongue also cut into small pieces. Break up the bones of the bird, and put them with the trim- Fig. 827. Vol-au-Vent of Cold Game. mings into a saucepan ; add a blade of mace, two or three allspice, a small quantity of salt and nutmeg, and about | breakfast-cupful of white stock, and boil gently for half- an-hour. Rub the skin off a few small button-mushrooms Game—continued. with a piece of flannel dipped in salt, put them in a stewpan, strain the gravy from the bones over them, and stew gently. When they are nearly cooked, put in the meat, with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of minced truffles, 1 teacupful of thick cream, and loz. of butter worked into 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir the whole over the fire until boiled and quite thick. Prepare a vol-au-vent case by rolling out some paste, lin. thick, laid on a greased baking-sheet, and cutting a round as large as a dinner-plate; mark out with the point of a knife an inner circle about lin. from the edge, and not more than Jin. deep, bake it, and after removing the thin inner circle pile up the centre with the Game preparation. Cut up the thin slab from the centre into shapes, and lay over the Game -mixture, previously brushing over with white of egg each place where the ornament is to be laid. Pass the sala- mander over the top, and serve on a hot dish. See Fig. 827. GAMMON.—A term applied to tlie thigh of a hog when pickled or dried. See Bacon. GARBURE.—Some of our Continental cooks hailing from the South of France are very fond of not only using this term hut also of preparing the dish, but unfortunately the word seems to suggest so decidedly a reference to our garbage that it is not, popular in this country. The word is probably derived from gerbe— a sheaf, which in the old French was spelt garbe. Wheatsheaves are called garbs in heraldic language, and as garbs or wheatsheaves require a fork to remove them out of a field, Kettner considers that Garbure signifies a soup containing garbs, or Bits of food that require a fork to lift them. Ude gives instructions for a Garbure to be prepared somewhat as follows: Put into a large saucepan 61b. of flank of beef, a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, and two or three carrots and onions, one stuck with two cloves; pour in J pint of broth, put the lid on the pan, and let the contents sweat over a slow fire. When the meat is cooked, pour in sufficient boiling water to cover it, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours. Thoroughly wash and blanch two cabbages, put them in a saucepan between layers of bacon, and braise them ; moisten the cabbages with the strained broth from the meat. Put some smoked sausages in with the cabbages, and stew gently till cooked. Cut some slices of brown bread, lay them in the bottom of a deep dish, put over them a layer of the cabbage after draining it in a cloth, pour over a little of the broth, and cook in a slow oven for a few minutes. When the bread is sufficiently moistened, put in some more layers of bread and cabbage, and return to the oven for a few minutes longer. Put the ham in the centre on the cabbage, arrange the bacon and sausages round, and serve with the soup in a tureen. GARDEN PARTIES.—These may be sufficiently described as “picnics at home,” having one very great catering advantage over picnics abroad: the facilities at hand for preparing the necessary refreshments are immeasurably greater, and lead visitors to anticipate something of a very tasty and pleasing character. A clever hostess will understand that very much of the success of a Garden Party depends upon the quality of the refreshments. Solid food is not desirable, there being no set table to sit down to; and if there were, those guests who were bent on garden recreation might feel indisposed for further excitement after a heavy meal. But it is astonishing the amount of light, sweet, and tasty food that a Garden Party will consume. A good plan, where the hall is sufficiently capacious, is to erect a temporary buffet therein, providing small tables and plenty of comfortable chairs outside on the terrace, verandah, in summer-houses, or under trees. Let there be a few attendants, but have the gentlemen principally to wait upon the ladies, rather than servants on both, for therein consists one of the great charms of a Garden Party—freedom of formality and liberal intercourse. At a Garden Party appetites are exceedingly irregular, so that it is advisable to have the buffet covered all the668 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dx., referred to, see under their special heads. Garden Parties—continued. time with those pleasing little bonnes bouches, either savoury or sweet, that can be seized and demolished almost unconsciously. The refreshments suitable for a Garden Party will be found bountifully described under Biscuits, Bouchees, Canapes, Panchonettes, Fruit, Galantines, Ices, Jellies, and innumerable other small articles that are pretty and tasty. There will be no need for sandwiches, slices of cake, and such like old-fashioned foods if the hostess can familiarise herself with the good things to be found in every page of this Encyclopedia. Let every care be taken over the garnishes—-not too much of it, but just enough, and a free floral display amongst the dishes. The wines and other liquors will, of course, be of a light and sparkling character, which, with champagne, claret, or other cup, cold and refreshing, will provoke a general feeling of contentment and pleasure, to the credit of the hostess and pride of the host. GARFISH (Fr. Orphie ; Ger. Hornbecht). — The Anglo-Saxon for spear was gar, to which it may be supposed this fish (Belone vulgaris) bears some resern- Fig. 828. Garfish. blance (see Fig. 828). It has been styled Gar, Gerrick, Greenback, Greenbone, Gorebill, Hornfish, Longnose, Mackerel Guide, Sea Needle, and Sea Pike, the meaning of some of these names being sufficiently obvious. It is a European fish of the Tylosurus tribe; but there are numerous very large varieties found along the shores of the Atlantic. By some persons the Garfish is considered a great delicacy. It requires very little cleaning, and is generally boiled as follows : (1) Clean and wash two or three Garfish, cut them up, put them in a dish with a small quantity of finely-chopped sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and a flavouring' of any desired kind; pour over sufficient vinegar, oil, or white wine to moisten, and let them remain for an hour or so. Put them with their liquor into a saucepan, add a little gravy if the liquor should not be sufficient, cover over the pan, set it in a bain-marie, and cook gently until the fish are done. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Prepare and marinade the fish as for No. 1, put them into jars, pour in the liquor to cover them, adding gravy if it should not be sufficient; stand the jars in a saucepan half full of boiling water, and boil until the fish are done, which will take about thirty minutes. Turn the fish out of the jars on to a dish, and serve with anchovy-flavoured butter sauce poured over. GARLIC (Fr. Ail; Ger. Knoblauch; Ital. Aglio ; Sp. Ajo).—There is no other article used in cookery that is so valuable and yet so much despised. It has numerous friends on the Continent, amounting in some provincial parts to enthusiasts, or Garlic gourmands ; but in England the tastes are decidedly inclined towards onions in preference. Garlic (Allium sativum) is a bulb (see Fig. 829) which amidst several membranous sheaths is divided into what are termed cloves—from the word cleave, and not from clavus, a nail, from which the spice i; clove ” is derived. The French call these cloves of Garlic, gousses (pods) d’ail. Garlic—continued. The great art of using Garlic is to so apply it to the dish that it cannot be individually detected, even though supplying the basis of the special flavour desired. Extract of Garlic. -Peel 1 tea- cupful of cloves of Garlic, put them in a bottle, pour in 5 pint of spirits of wine, and cork tightly. Shake the bottle occa- sionally for eight or ten days, and the extract will then be fit for use. A very small quantity of the extract will be found sufficient for flavouring. Garlic Butter. -See Ayoli. Garlic Butter Sauce. — Peel and boil a couple of Garlic as for Garlic Flavouring for Gravies, drain, pound them to a paste in a mortar together with loz. of butter, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and ^ salt- spoonful of pepper; rub the mass through a fine hair sieve, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of butter warmed to melting and the strained juice of a lemon, and it is then ready for use. Fig. 829. Garlic. Garlic Flavouring1 for Gravies. — Peel a few cloves of Garlic, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for five minutes, take out and put them into another pan containing boiling water, and boil for five minutes longer. Continue in this way until the cloves of Garlic are quite tender. Add 1 pinch of salt to the liquor, mix it in with gravy in equal proportions, and it is ready. Garlic Flavouring for a Salad (Chapon).—Cut a thin crust, 2in. long by lin. wide, from a loaf of bread, and sprinkle over a little salt. Rub a peeled clove of Garlic over both sides of the crust, lay it at the bottom of the salad-bowl, place the salad over, and stir it about. Garlic Sauce.—(1) Remove the peel from some Garlic, separate them into cloves, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil ■for five minutes ; change the water three times, boiling for five minutes in each. Strain off the water, add white sauce to the cloves, boil up, and serve. The strength of the flavour is determined by the length of boiling, as the longer it boils the weaker it will be. The Garlic, if properly cooked, will have an almond taste. (2) French.—Pound the peeled cloves of Garlic in a mortar, adding sweet-oil to give it the appeai-ance and consistency of cream ; it is then ready for use, and is generally eaten with roasted or boiled meats. Garlic as a Vegetable. -Peel some Garlic, divide them into cloves, and boil for five minutes in water; change the water and boil again, repeating the process twice more, or four times in all. Drain, and serve hot in a vegetable-dish. Garlic Vinegar.— (1) Peel and chop foz. of Garlic, pound three cloves, and grate half a nutmeg; put them all into a bottle, pour over 1 pint of vinegar, cork the bottle, shake it every day for a week, strain, put it into small bottles, and cork securely. It is then ready for use. (2) Chop 2oz. of Garlic, put it into a large bottle, and pour over lqt. of vinegar. Cork the bottle up, and let it remain for ten days, giving- it a shake daily. Let it settle, and pour off the clear liquor into smaller bottles. It is a very powerful flavouring, and a few drops will be quite sufficient to flavour 1 pint of gravy. Pickled Garlic.— (1) Remove the skin from lib. of Garlic, divide them into cloves, put them on a flat dish or board, and sprinkle over with salt. Let them remain for two or three days ; then wipe, and put them in the open air to dry. Put loz. each of peppercorns and bruised mustard-seed into a saucepan with lqt. or more of vinegar and a little salt, set the pan on the fire, boil, skim well, and plunge the Garlic in, taking care that it is entirely covered with the vinegar. Let it remain in for three minutes, allow the liquor to cool, and put it in a large jar. Tie the jar down securely with skin or wet parchment, and it can then be stored ready for use.669 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Garlic—continued. (2) Put 4oz. of ginger into a bowl with strong brine, leave it to soak for fully five days, then take out, cut it into slices, dry in the sun, put it into a stone or earthenware jar, and pour over lgall. of white-wine vinegar. Remove the peel from lib. of Garlic, cover it with salt, and let it remain for three days; wipe on a cloth, dry also in the sun, and add it to the ginger, together with Jib. of long pepper previously soaked in salted water and dried, tjlb. of turmeric, and lib. of crushed or bruised mustard-seed. Cover over the jar, give it a shake, and leave it for a year before using. Any dried herbs in season may be added. GARNISHES (TV. Embellissements; Ger. Gavningen). —When a viand is set upon a dish, it may be very good in itself and yet possess little attraction for the eye. Garnishes are the ornamentation that set it forth, just as a lady wears her jewels to give piquancy to her natural charms. The Old English word garnischen—to pi-ovide, strengthen, or prepare, is the evident progenitor of Gar- nish, but custom has given a stronger meaning to the term, so that we now speak of Garnishes as varieties of ornamentation used in preparing dishes for the table. These Garnishes are very numerous, ranging over an ex- tensive list of small articles, and adding more or less to the flavour of the viand they are used to accompany; but it does not always follow that a Garnish should contri- bute to the taste, or be served to each guest with the viand, for some contribute little more than appearance (see Plate). Numerous Garnishes and modes of applying them suit- aide for special dishes will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia; the following are a few to which special names have been given by cooks, and under these names they are generally recognised. See Attelettes. Admiral Garnish (a l’Amiral).—This a fish Garnish made up of boiled crayfish-tails and prawns, mussels masked with villeroy sauce, covered with breadcrumbs, and fried in fat and parsley, all placed in groups round the dish. Bayard Garnish (a la Bayard).—This is made up of truifle, tongue, mushrooms, artichokes, Madeira, Spanish sauce, bread, and goose’s fat liver, prepared as follows : Cut a truifle into very thin round slices, also a little cooked smoked ox-tongue, three mushrooms, and two artichoke-bottoms. Put them all in a saucepan on the fire with | wineglassful of Madeira, boil for about five minutes, or until reduced to one-half its original bulk. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Surround the dish with croutons of bread covered with thin slices of cooked goose’s fat liver. Bordeaux Garnish (a la Bordelaise). — This is composed of shallots, wine, Spanish sauce, and ox-marrow, prepared as follows : Finely chop a peeled shallot, put it in a saute-pan with f wineglassful of red wine, and cook for five minutes; then add £ pint of Spanish sauce, a small quantity of cayenne, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve it poured over fillets of beef or steaks, place over six slices of ox-marrow, pre- viously parboiled for half-a-minute, and serve. Cliambord Garnish (a la Chambord).—This consists of mushrooms, fish quenelles, Geneva sauce, truffles, crayfish, carp’s soft roes, and villeroy sauce, prepared as follows: Cook some whole mushrooms and prepare small fish quenelles, moulding them with teaspoons, and when these are ready mask with Geneva sauce. Boil some whole truffles and cray- fish, remove the flesh from the tails, keeping it whole, and cook also some carp’s soft roes in villeroy sauce. Arrange these Garnishes in heaps, alternately with whole crayfish, round the dish. Cliipolata Garnish, (a la Cliipolata).— (1) This is made up of chestnuts, onions, mushrooms, and chipolata sausages, prepared as follows : Blanch and cook in rich broth some chestnuts, glaze a few small onions, and cook some mush- rooms in butter and lemon-juice. Arrange them with the sausages rmind the dish, and mask with Madeira sauce. (2) Or it is made up of salted pork, carrots, onions, mush- rooms, chestnuts, chipolata sausages, Spanish and tomato sauces, prepared as follows: Cut £lb. of salted pork into dice, fry for two minutes in a saucepan, add 1 breakfast- cupful each of carrots (cut like corks with a vegetable- Garnishes—continued. cutter), onions (browned and glazed in the oven), and cooked mushrooms, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of blanched and peeled chestnuts, and six small chipolata sausages cut in pieces. Pour in 2qts. of Spanish sauce, 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, and sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 piled teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for half-an-hour, and use when required. Chivry Garnish (a la Cliivry).—Tlrs is made up of oysters, potatoes, crayfish, mussels, villeroy sauce, and breadcrumbs as follows : Prepare some small oyster bouchees and potato croquettes; boil some crayfish and remove the tails, leaving the shells on; mask some mussels with villeroy sauce, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat. Arrange in ^mall heaps roirnd the dish. Commodore Garnish (a la Commodore).—This contains crayfish, truffles, mussels, villeroy sauce, and breadcrumbs as follows : Prepare equal quantities of crayfish croquettes and quenelles, the latter highly seasoned with cayenne and masked with matelote sauce, and boil some large whole truffles. Dip the required quantity of mussels into villeroy sauce, cover them with seasoned breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or other fat. Arrange the Garnish in small heaps round the dish. Durand Garnish (a la Durand).- This is made up of bacon, ham, sweetbreads, Spanish sauce, truffles, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, olives, cocks’ combs, ox-palates, chicken livers, eggs, crayfish-tails, oysters, gherkins, and sweet herbs, prepared as follows : Place a large slice of fat bacon in a saucepan ; when melted, remove any lean that there may be, and add a slice of ham cut into small fillets, a lump of fresh butter, and either a calf’s or lamb’s sweetbread cut into large dice; moisten with Spanish sauce and the dripping from a roasted leg of mutton, carefully skimmed and passed through a tammy. Add thick slices of truffles, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, stoned olives stuffed with truffle forcemeat, boiled blanched cocks’ combs and ox-palates, the latter cut into dice, and, lastly, some chicken’s livers; simmer by the side of the fire, and just before serving, add the yolks of six hard- boiled eggs, a few crayfish-tails, and four dozen oysters, blanched and warmed for a minute in mutton gravy, and season with gherkins and mixed sweet herbs; when done, clear off all grease, and pour the Garnish over the joint it is about to be served with. D’TJxelles Garnish, (a. la d’Uxelles).—This is composed of fine herbs and Madeira sauce, prepared as follows : Reduce 1 breakfast-cupful of cooked fine herbs with 1 teacupful of Madeira sauce in a saucepan on a moderately-heated stove for about ten minutes, or until it is thick. Fermiere Garnish (a la Fermiere).—This is made up of small rounds of potatoes fried in butter, glazed carrots, and very small cabbages and lettuces braised. Arrange in groups round the dish. Financiere Garnish (a la Financiere).—(1) For this, cocks’ combs, sweetbreads, forcemeat quenelles, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, and truffles, prepared as follows, are used: Blanch three cocks’ combs by steeping them in boiling- water, dry, and rub off the skin; soak them in water for several hours. Dry them, and stew in butter, lemon-juice, and a little salt, moistening them with a small quantity of stock. When boiling, add three lamb’s sweetbreads, six forcemeat quenelles, five artichoke-bottoms, six mushrooms, and six truffles, sliced, and the Garnish is ready for use. (2) Or it is made up of cocks’ combs, small quenelles, sweetbreads in small pieces, and button-mushrooms, prepared as follows : The cocks’ combs are generally bought in bottles. If taken from the bird, they must be so trimmed at the edges as to allow of the blood disgorging, and the skin must be rubbed off with a cloth dipped in boiling water and salt. It takes about eight hours’ soaking in cold water to dis- gorge them properly. They must be simmered in broth with lemon-juice and butter till three-parts done, and then the other ingredients added, with a rich white sauce, and the cooking- completed in this sauce. The Garnish is principally served with a fricassee of chicken, or to fill vol-au-vents. (3) Or it may be composed of goose’s fat liver, kidneys, cocks’ combs, truffles, and fowl quenelles, all cooked inTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 670 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Garnishes—continued. Spanish sauce, with the addition of a wineglassful of sherry. It is principally used for garnishing fowls or fillets of beef. (1) Made up also of sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, olives, forcemeat quenelles, chicken livers, and Madeira sauce, pre- pared as follows : Blanch a sweetbread, cut it into dice, put it in a saucepan with two truffles, six mushrooms, twelve stoned olives, six godiveau forcemeat quenelles, and two blanched chicken livers cut in pieces. Moisten with f wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; pour in 1 pint of Madeira sauce, cook for ten minutes, skim, and use when required. Flemish Garnish (a la Flamande).—(1) This is made with a cooked knuckle of ham, boiled bacon, sausages, German sausage, boiled carrots and turnips, and glazed onions. The larger part of the Garnish is composed of well-boiled white cabbages which have been thoroughly dried in a saucepan ; Brussels sprouts may also be used. This is an excellent Garnish for rump steak, fillet of beef, or a roasted ham. (2) Made up also of bacon, cabbages, carrots, and turnips, as follows : Blanch and boil the required quantity of squares of smoked bacon; braise some small cabbages, and blanch and braise equal quantities of carrots and turnips cut as nearly as possible to imitate pears. Arrange in alternate groups. Forest of Senart Garnish (a la Foret de Senart).—This is composed of parsley tied up in bunches and fried in butter. Place them as close as possible round the joint, so as to give the appearance of a forest. Garnish for Game.—This is made up of calf’s kidney, ham, parsley, tarragon, and seasoning, prepared as follows: Scald half a calf’s kidney and two small slices of ham, and cut them into little pieces. Put 3oz. of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is hot lay in the meat ; add a little parsley and tarragon, salt and pepper to taste, and three slices of lemon. Pry until the liver is of a light colour and a little gravy has run from it. Godard Garnish (a la Godard).—(1) This contains truffles, cocks’ combs, sweetbreads, and forcemeat quenelles, seasoned and prepared as follows : Boil the required quantity of truffles, cocks’ combs, and sweetbreads studded with fillets of truffles, separately in rich stock seasoned with salt and pepper, and boil also in the same liquor some large forcemeat quenelles. Arrange this Garnish in small heaps round the dish. (2) Or it may be made with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, cocks’ combs and kidneys, and Madeira sauce, prepared as follows: Put six forcemeat quenelles into a saucepan with two truffles cut in dice, six cocks’ combs, six cocks’ kidneys, and three mushrooms cut into squares; pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and season with salt and pepper. Boil for five minutes, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Madeira sauce, boil for five minutes longer, and use as desired. (3) Or it is made up of forcemeat quenelles, truffles, fillet of beef, mushrooms, and sweetbreads, prepared as follows : Decorate some large forcemeat quenelles with pieces of truffles, and cook them in stock. Lard, broil, and glaze some thick slices of fillet of beef, and boil in stock some large whole truffles, mushrooms, and small sweetbreads. The quantity of each to be used depends upon taste or fancy. Before using, the quenelles and mushrooms should be slightly masked with appropriate sauce and the truffles should be glazed. Gourmet Garnish (a la Gourmet).—This is made up of artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, ox-palates, and Madeira wine and sauce, prepared as follows : Cut a cooked artichoke- bottom, either fresh or canned, into six pieces of equal size, put them in a saucepan with four mushrooms, two truffles, and a small quantity of cooked ox-palate, all cut into dice ; add f wineglassful of Madeira wine, and cook for five minutes. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of Madeira sauce, cook for five minutes longer, and it is then ready for use. Greek Garnish (a la Grecque).—For this, okra gumbos are prepared as follows, with Madeira and bearnaise sauces: Cut off both ends from a dozen okra gumbos, parboil them in boiling water for five minutes, drain, and put them into a saucepan with a little Madeira sauce. Cook for ten minutes longer, and serve arranged in groups, with 1 teacupful of bearnaise sauce. Hussard Garnish (a la Hussard).—This consists of mush- rooms, godiveau quenelles, ox-tongue, prepared with Madeira Garnishes—continued. and tomato sauces as follows : Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of Madeira sauce into a heated saucepan on the fire, add 1 tea- cupful of tomato sauce, six mushrooms cut into small pieces, 4oz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into rounds, and a dozen godiveau quenelles. Cook for about five minutes, and it is ready for use. Journeaux Garnish (a la Journeanx).—This is composed of chicken livers, seasoned and cooked with Madeira sauce, as follows : Cut the gall away carefully from twelve chicken livers, wash them clean, wipe dry, put them with loz. of butter in a frying-pan, and fry for three minutes. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper. Turn them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Madeira sauce, and boil for five minutes. Mariniere Garnish (a la Mariniere).—This fish Garnish is composed of mussels, crayfish, truffles, and fish quenelles, prepared as follows: Blanch some mussels and trim them; boil some truffles and crayfish, removing the tails and keep- ing them whole ; and prepare some fish quenelles, highly seasoned with cayenne. Put some veloute sauce into a frying-pan, with a little of the liquor in which the mussels were blanched, let it thicken over the fire, then add the mussels, &c., and stir until hot. Matelote Garnish (a la Matelote).—This is made up of carps’ soft roes, mussels, crayfish, mushrooms, truffles, and onions, prepared as follows: Boil some soft roes of carp, blanch some mussels, cook also some crayfish, and take out the meat from the tails, keeping them whole ; glaze some truffles, mushrooms, and small onions. Should the Garnish be required to be dished in heaps, matelote sauce must be served in a sauceboat; but if to be served otherwise, all the ingredients should be put into a saute-pan with some matelote sauce, and stirred over the fire for a few minutes, so as to thicken the sauce.* Milanese Garnish (a la Milanaise).—This is composed of truffles, mushrooms, ox-tongue, rice, and cheese, cooked as follows with Madeira and tomato sauces: Cut two truffles, six mushrooms, and an equal quantity of cooked smoked ox-tongue into pieces, put them in a saucepan with 2 break- fast-cupfuls of boiled rice, f pint each of tomato and Madeira sauces, 1 table-spoonful of salt, a little pepper, and 3 table- spoonfuls of grated cheese (either Parmesan or Gruyere). Cook for ten minutes before using. Montebello Garnish (a la Montebello).—For this, truffles with tomato and bearnaise sauces are prepared as follows : Pour 1 pint of tomato sauce in a saucepan, and add an equal quantity of bearnaise sauce and three sliced truffles; place the saucepan in the bain-marie, warm up without boiling, and it is ready for use. Normandy Garnish (a la Normaude).—(1) This consists of fish quenelles, mussels, oysters, crayfish-tails, mushrooms, and Normandy sauce, as follows : Prepare the required quantity of quenelles, moulded with teaspoons, made of any kind of fish forcemeat, also blanch as many mussels and oysters as are wanted; cut some cooked mushrooms in rather thick slices, and have ready some boiled crayfish-tails, taken out of the shells. Put the whole of these into a frying-pan with sufficient thick Normandy sauce to moisten, and stir them over the fire until hot. The Garnish is then ready for use. (2) Or it is made up of celery, carrots, onions, and white broth and cider, prepared as follows : Peel and well wash twelve heads of celery, drain them, put six of them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, salt and pepper to season, and 1 teacupful of white broth, and cook for twenty minutes on a moderate fire ; mash, and set them in a warm place till wanted. Take the other six heads of celery, and cut out the centres with a vegetahle-scoop, leaving about fin. uncut at the bottom to prevent burning; season with salt only. Stuff them with the warm mixture, and place them in a saucepan with half a scraped aud sliced carrot, half a peeled aud sliced onion, and 1 table-spoonful of butter; cook for three minutes on a moderate fire, add 1 wineglass- ful of cider and 1 teacupful of white broth, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Arrang'e the mashed celery that is not used in the centre of a hot dish, place the meat to be served over it, surround tho dish with the stuffed celery, strain over the gravy, arrange a floret of cooked cauliflower on top of each piece of celery, and serve hot.671 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Garnishes—continued. Parisian Garnish (a. la Parisienne).—This consists of Madeira, mushrooms and truffles, prepared as follows : Put § wineglassful of Madeira into a saucepan with six sliced mush- rooms and three sliced truffles, and cook for four minutes ; then add 1 breakfast-cupful cf Madeira sauce, cook for five minutes longer, and use as required. Paysanne Garnish (a la Paysanne).—This is made up of carrots, cucumbers, and smoked sausages, prepared as follows : Peel some large carrots, cut them into slices about Jin. thick, and blanch and braise them. Have ready also some small broiled sausages and cooked stuffed cucumbers, all cut into thickish slices. Arrange the slices alternately, overlapping one another round the dish. Provencal Garnish (a la Provenpale).—(1) Prepared with cooked mushrooms and stuffed tomatoes arranged round the dish in alternate groups. This Garnish can be served with almost any entree, and should be accompanied with Madeira sauce. (2) Or it is made of small onions, garlic, and cheese, cooked ' as follows : Peel and chop two small onions, put them in a saucepan of boiling water for five minutes to prevent them getting brown, drain, put them in a saute-pan witli loz. of butter, and cook for five minutes. Add a very little white wine, a small quantity of crushed garlic, 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 gill of bechamel sauce, and season with salt and pepper. Stir well until it comes to the boil, and then put it away to cool before using. Providence Garnish (a la Providence).- This is made up of cooked mushrooms, small truffles, fowl quenelles, and rounds of goose’s fat liver, also stoned and blanched olives. Put them, when ready, into a saute-pan with Madeira sauce, and stir over the fire until thickened. The Garnish is then ready for use. Reform Garnish (a la Reforme).—This is made up of shred cooked ham, boiled carrots in slices, truffles, and white of hard-boiled egg, and is attributed to the celebrated Soyer. Regency Garnish (a la Regence).— (1) This' consists of fish quenelles, truffles, crayfish-tails, cocks’ kidneys, and mush- rooms, as follows: Prepare some large fish quenelles deco- rated with truffles, also some cocks’ kidneys and crayfish- tails. Cook some mushrooms, mask them with sauce a la Regence, and glaze some whole truffles. Arrange in separate heaps round the dish. (2) Or it is made up of German sauce, mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat quenelles, sweetbreads, and cocks’ combs and cocks’ kidneys, prepared as follows: Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of hot German sauce into a saucepan, and keep it on the side of the fire. Cut six mushrooms into large pieces, peel two truffles, prepare six godiveau or fowl quenelles, and have ready a few pieces of sweetbreads and six each of cocks’ combs and cocks’ kidneys. Put them all into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine seasoned with salt and pepper; cook for six minutes, add them to the sauce, cook for three minutes longer, and the Garnish is then ready for use. Rouen Garnish (a la Rouennaise).—This Garnish is com- posed of turnips, seasoned and cooked with Spanish sauce, as follows : Cut three turnips into six pieces each with a vege- table-cutter, put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, put on the lid, and cook in the oven for ten minutes, shaking the pan frequently. Moisten with 1 pint of Spanish sauce, add salt and pepper to taste, cook for twenty minutes longer, skim off the fat, and use when required. St. Nazaire Garnish (a la St. Nazaire).— This Garnish, usually served with fish, is made up of fine herbs cooked as follows: Put 3 table-spoonfuls of court bouillon into a sauce- pan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 1 table-spoonful of cooked fine herbs, 1 breakfast-cupful of German sauce, salt and pepper to taste, and warm them. Pour the sauce over the fish it is to be served with, and garnish with six hot clams. Scarlet Garnish (a l’Ecarlate).—This consists of ox-tongue cooked in tomato and Spanish sauces, as follows : Pour 1 breakfast-cupful each of tomato and Spanish sauces into a saucepan, adding a little finely-chopped cooked smoked ox- tongue ; cook for about six minutes, and use as required. Garnishes—continued. Soubise Garnish (a la Soubise).—This is made up of onions prepared in broth and bechamel sauce as follows: Cut up three onions, put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, £ breakfast-cupful of white broth, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 level saltspoonful of white pepper, cover the saucepan, and cook for twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bechamel sauce, and boil for five minutes longer. Strain through a cloth, pour it back into the saucepan, add more seasoning if necessary, also a little grated nutmeg, and a little warm milk should it be too thick ; warm up again, and use as required. Supreme Garnish (a la Supreme).—This is made up of rice, fowl, and truffles, seasoned and cooked as follows : Well wjish 2oz. of rice, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white broth or stock. Pound the flesh from the wing of a cooked fowl in a mortar, add it to the rice, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of white pepper, and cook on a moderate fire for thirty minutes ; strain through a fine sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, add Joz. of butter and 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and warm slowly on the stove without boiling. Arrange this Garnish in an artistic crown-shape round a hot dish, place the supremes in the centre, and ornament the garn'shing with thin slices of truffles ; with a light hair brush drip a little meat glaze over it, and serve. Supremes of partridges, quails, or sweetbreads can all be served with this Garnish. Toulouse Garnish (a la Toulouse). — (1) This consists of goose’s fat liver, mushrooms, sweetbreads, sheep’s kidneys, and truffles, prepared as follows : Cut some slices from a cooked goose’s fat liver, having them of uniform size and shape, keep them hot over the fire in a buttered saute-pan, and before using slightly glaze them. Cook some mushrooms in butter and lemon-juice, braise some sweetbreads, and poach (or cook in water) some sheep’s kidneys, masking all of them, when ready, with veloute sauce. Trim some truffles as round as possible, boil them in wine and a small quantity of meat or fowl glaze, and afterwards brush them over with butter. A tureenful of Toulouse sauce should accompany. (2) Or it is composed of collops of goose’s fat livers, truffles, whole mushrooms, cocks’ combs and livers, and lamb’s sweet- breads. The collops are made from previously cooked fat livers; the truffles being boiled in glaze and white wine, the mushrooms blanched with butter and lemon-juice, the cocks’ combs trimmed, washed, and boiled until they are blanched, the livers boiled, and the lamb’s sweetbreads fried. All these ingredients are placed round the dish, the fat livers slightly glazed, the cocks’ combs, mushrooms, livers, and lamb’s sweet- breads covered with veloute sauce, and the truffles strongly glazed. Turtle Garnish (a la Tortue).—(1) This is made up of mushrooms, truffles, brains, ox-palates, olives,, gherkins, and chicken quenelles, as follows: Prepare and cook some mush- rooms, large whole truffles, and brains, also small rounds of ox-palate, chicken quenelles moulded with teaspoons, stoned olives, and small balls of gherkins, cut out with a cutter. Put the mushrooms, truffles, ox-palate, quenelles, and olives into a saute-pan with a little of the liquor from the turtle it is to be served with, let it thicken over the fire, and it is ready for use. The brains and gherkins are arranged on the top of the other ingredients. (2) Or it is made of chicken livers, olives, truffles, mush- rooms, and sweetbreads, prepared as follows : Boil three cleaned chicken livers in water for three minutes, let them get cool, cut each one into three pieces, put them in a sauce- pan with six stoned and blanched olives, two truffles, four mushrooms, and a sweetbread, all cut up into dice ; add 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cook for five minutes, then put in ^ pint of Madeira sauce, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve with six croutons of fried bread and six fried eggs. Valencia Garnish (a la Valencienne).—This is made up of a truffle, mushrooms, ox-tongue, and rice, prepared as follows: Cut a truffle, three mushrooms, and a very little cooked ox-tongue into shreds, add 3 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, put them all in a saucepan with 3 table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce, j table-spoonful of salt, 1 level teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of grated cheese. Boil for five minutes, and use when required.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 672 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Garnishes—continued. Vanderbilt Garnish (a la Vanderbilt).—This is prepared with green peppers, tomatoes, and shrimps, as follows : Peel and chop a green pepper, put it in a saucepan with a tomato cut into small pieces, loz. of butter, and eighteen picked and minced shrimps; season with salt and pepper, cook for ten minutes, and it is ready for use. This Garnish has been christened after the name of the famous American millionaire by a grateful cook. GAEUM.—This word is not used in modern cookery. Originally it was the name given by the ancients to a sauce made of small fish, from the Greek garos; the word being applied afterwards to gravy, in which sense it is used in some ancient cookery books. According to Pliny, it was a kind of pickle or sauce prepared of fish in a state of incipient putrefaction, strongly salted and seasoned with aromatics, and a great favourite at the tables of the Romans. GAS.—The use of Gas as the fuel or heat-giver in kitchens has been rapidly gaining favour, as much for the nicety with which it can be regulated, as for its cleanliness and freedom from dust and smoke. There are, however, some cooks who are ready to declare against Gas for reasons that are fraught with prejudice. These prejudices will be overcome in course of time, and then Gas will become indispensable to all well- regulated kitchens. These matters will be duly dis- cussed under Stoves and Ranges ; it is merely necessary here to observe that it is usual to mix air with Gas for heating purposes, and that in this condi- tion it is explosive, requiring careful management and reliably-constructed apparatus. For covered cooking, such as baking, boiling, and even frying, Gas has proved very effective; but in spite of many laudable efforts to use it for roasting and grilling, nothing has yet been invented of an entirely satisfactory character. GASCONY BUTTER.—See Butter. GASFACHO.—This is described by some authorities as a famous nutritive drink of Spain, a cold soup compounded of tomatoes, garlic chopped fine, oil, and vinegar; and a salad. Urbain Dubois (who dubs it Gas- pachio) considers it to be a sort of raw vegetable salad, which the Andalusians partake of daily, consider- ing it to be very refreshing. The following receipts are given for its preparation: (1) Finely chop some chives, and cut plenty of cucumber into small squares; put these into a bowl, mqisten well with a little water or cold stock, season with salt, and add lemon-juice and oil to suit the taste ; toss up together, and sprinkle some breadcrumbs over the liquor. Have ready a pinch or two of finely-chopped marjoram, sprinkle over the surface with it, and serve. (2) Mince a large Spanish onion and a large freshly-cut cucumber. Split three fleshy tomatoes into halves, take out the seeds, and cut them into pieces. Put onion, cucumber, and tomatoes in layers into a bowl, dusting each layer with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs. Pour over sufficient vinegar and oil—one part of vinegar to four of oil —until all is moist. Set aside in a cool place for a few hours, and it is then ready to serve. (3) Put 5 teacupful of oil into a mortar, season it with salt and crushed garlic, rub them well together with the pestle, and add slowly a sufficient quantity of breadcrumbs to form a mass. Sprinkle in a very small quantity of water, and then add green capsicums, tomatoes, and cucumbers, all finely chopped; pound these well, and fill up the mortar with more water; now turn this into a bowl, add more cold water if required, sprinkle in more breadcrumbs, let it soak, add a little finely-chopped onion, pour in sufficient vinegar to give it an acid flavour, and stir well with a wooden spoon. The proportion of vinegar and oil to be used is one of the former to three of the latter. Care must be taken to serve immediately the vinegar is added, otherwise the breadcrumbs will absorb part of it and become sour. Iced water should be used. GASTRONOMY.-—The art or science of good eating. GATEAUX.—This is the French for cakes, but varies somewhat in the application, being more correctly used in connection with fruit or even savoury compounds formed in moulds (see Fig. 830)—such as Gateau de prune—or some cake which is constructed out of others. Indeed it is almost impossible to define the word, and give to it a precise meaning. GATTINARA.—A Pied- montese wine which more often finds its way into South Ame- rica than into England. GAUFFRES or GAUF- FERS.—These will be better understood if described under the more appropriate head of Waffles. The term is obtained from the irons called gauffering-irons used in their manufacture; the process resembling that of stamping patterns on velvet, which is called gauffering:. Fig. 830. Gateau-mould (Temple and Crook). GAZOGENES.—At one time, when aerated waters were very expensive, a machine was invented by which in a form they could be prepared at home in very small quantities. Recent improvements, such as the charged syphon, have rendered their use troublesome and un- necessary. GEESE.—See Goose. GELATINE (Fr. Gelatine; Ger. Gallerte; Ital. Gelatina; 8ft. Gelatina).—This is described as jelly obtained from animal tissues, such as tendons, bones, and ligaments, by prolonged boiling. Glue and size are coarse kinds of Gelatine procured from skin, hoofs, &c. Isinglass is a purer kind obtained from the air bladders of fish, especially the sturgeon, and sometimes from their bones and skins. Liebig has pointed out that although Gelatine in a certain proportion is valuable with meat foods, yet it possesses little or no nutritive properties ; nevertheless, it answers so many useful purposes to the cook and con- fectioner, that it is likely to be valued for the properties that it does possess. Philosophers have puzzled their heads to make out the use of Gelatine in the animal economy, urged thereto by the fact that if omitted from the food for any length of time the constitution of the individual suffers. The fact that certain tissues possess so much Gelatine in their substance would surely point out that it is required by the tissues possessing it, pro- bably giving to them something of their strength and tenacity. Several kinds of Gelatine are known in the market, some good and some spurious. Confectioners have been known to use French glue; but it may be accepted as a general truism by all interested in genuine cookery that the best is the cheapest in the end. Isinglass is specially i referred to under that heading; but the term Gelatine is mostly used in this Encyclopajdia as indicative of the raw material, giving the cook the choice of using either that or more refined qualities, such as isinglass. French Gelatine is sold in thin cakes, or “ leaves ” as they are called, and it is said that much of it is prepared in Paris from the cuttings of kid gloves. Rough Gelatine may be refined and clarified by boiling, and straining repeatedly through a cloth or jelly-bag. The following are a few of the uses to which Gelatine may be applied : Gelatine Cream-Ice.—Put loz. of Gelatine to soak in 1 pint of milk, and after about an hour pour 3 pints of boiling' ' milk over it, and stir until the Gelatine has dissolved. Let itN ? 1 N°2 N° 3 N"4. N<?5 ARTISTIC Scalloped Oysters Roasted Oysters . Fried Oysters & Champignons Snails . Frogs fried . N ° 11 Scallops LUNCHEON DISHES. ~N° 6 Stewed Oysters .plain Butter 8c Black Pepper . N° 7 Fried Scallops. FI? 8 Fried Mussels Stuffed. N? 9 Stewed Oysters, Coral dressing 8c c. i N°10 Frogs in thick Cream Sauce, stewed in while Cream Sauce' ■673 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gelatine—continued. get cold, and then add jgall. of cream, sweeten it with caster sugar, and flavour according to taste. Whisk it well, put it into the freezer, freeze, turn it out, and serve. Gelatine Ice.—Put loz. of Gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, and let it remain for an hour; then pour over it 3 pints of boiling water, with ljlb. of moist sugar, pints of wine, the juice of three and the rind of two lemons. Stir well, pour it into the freezer, freeze, and serve. Gelatine Jelly.—(1) Put ljoz. of Gelatine into a saucepan with lqt. of water, boil over a good fire to reduce the quantity by half, and strain through a jelly-bag into a mould; when it is cold, turn it out, and use. This jelly may be used for many purposes, being readily liquefied by warming. (2) Soak and dissolve ioz. of Gelatine in 1 gill of cold water, pour over it J pint of boiling water, and stir till the Gelatine has quite melted; then add sugar to taste and a flavouring of thinly-pared lemon-peel. When it is quite cold, set it over the fire with the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and let it come to the boil, but do not stir it; as soon as it boils, take it from the fire, and gently pour in 1 table- spoonful of cold water; let it stand for five or ten minutes, and then run it through a jelly-bag. If it is not quite clear, run it through the bag again. When quite clear, mix with it 1 gill of wine, let it stand till nearly cold, and pour it into the mould ; when set, turn out and serve. (3) Put ljoz. of Gelatine into 1 pint of cold water together with the rinds and juice of three lemons, and let it steep all night. Next day pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, add J pint of sherry, sugar to taste, and the beaten whites and shells of three eggs, and boil for ten minutes. Do not stir it after it is put over the fire. After it has boiled for ten minutes, strain through a jelly-bag into a mould, let it stand till perfectly cold and firm, and then turn it out. (4) Put loz. of Gelatine into a bowl, pour over it lqt. of cold water, and let it steep for two hours; add to it lib. of loaf sugar, let this dissolve, and then put in a piece of stick cinnamon, three blades of mace, the strained juice and thinly-pared rind of two lemons, and the well-beaten whites of four eggs. Stir all well together, place the bowl over the fire, and let it boil without stirring for twenty minutes ; then add very gently 1 pint of white wine, take it from the fire, and strain through a jelly-bag, being careful not to shake it, or the jelly will not be clear. (5) Put loz. of Gelatine shavings into a small saucepan with three-dozen-and-a-lialf Jamaica peppers, a small piece of brown bread crust and lqt. of water, and boil quickly until the liquor is reduced to 1 pint. Strain it, and keep in a cool place. A table-spoonful in wine and water, or tea, milk, or soup, makes a very agreeable drink. Gelatine Puddings. — Put joz. of Gelatine in teacupful of cold water, let it remain until soft, and then add boiling water to make the quantity up to l pint. Beat up the yolks of three eggs in a basin, mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar and a little salt, to make a custard. Pour this into a double boiler, add 1 pint of boiling milk, and boil until it thickens. Fig. 831. Gelatine Puddings. Pass the Gelatine water through a fine strainer into the double boiler with the custard, and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract and the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Dip six small moulds into cold water, pour in the mixture, and pack them in pounded ice to harden. Turn them out of the moulds on to a glass dish, and serve with wine or other sweet sauce. See Fig. 831. GENEVA—The name erroneously given to Gin and Hollands, from their association with genievre, which is the French name for the juniper. GENEVA BISCUITS.—.See Biscuits. GENEVA BUNS.—See Buns. GENEVA CAKES.—See Cakes. GENEVA PASTE.—See Pastes. GENEVA SAUCE (i, la Genevoise). — This is oftentimes confounded with Bordeaux sauce and another style, a la Bourguignonne, because a red wine is used in all three. Geneva sauce was invented for the purpose of being served with the trout for which the Lake of Geneva is famous. See Sauces. GENOA CAKE.—See Cakes. GENOA SALAD.—See Salads. GENTIAN.—The dried root of Gentiana lutea is sometimes used in the manufacture of Bitters, as described under that head. GERANIUM.—The oil of this plant is sometimes used for flavouring confectionery. It resembles attar of roses, for which it has been substituted. By some autho- rities it is believed to be the spikenard mentioned in the Scriptures as l! very precious.” GERMAN SAUCE (& l’Allemande).—See Sauces. GERMAN SAUSAGE—See Sausages. GERMAN YEAST.—See Yeast. GHEE—This is a sort of butter much used in India, and is prepared as follows: The milk is slowly boiled in large earthen pots for a couple of hours. It is then left to cool, a little curdled milk called dliye being stirred into it to induce coagulation. In time the contents of the jars are transferred to a large earthenware crock, in which they are slowly and patiently worked with a piece of split bamboo. After about half-an-hour’s careful working, hot water is thrown over the mass, and in the course of another half-hour or so, the churning being continued, the butter forms. This butter is then left until it turns rancid. It is then put into an earthenware vessel and boiled until all the water has evaporated, and mixed up with a little salt or betel-leaf. The Ghee is then considered made, and is poured off into bottles. GHERKINS (Fr. Cornichons ; Ger. Pfeffergurken).— These are a kind of small prickly cucumber much in demand for pickling. Small undergrown cucumbers are considered nearly as good, and are less difficult to obtain. Gherkins may be pickled as follows: (1) Put some Gherkins into a stone jar, and cover them with strong brine, adding a small piece of alum to prevent them losing colour. When they have been soaking for seven or eight days, take them out, put them into fresh water, and leave for two or three days in that. Boil some malt vinegar in a saucepan, and let it get nearly cold. Take the Gherkins out of the water and put them into a large pan, pour the cold vinegar over them, and they are ready for use. Cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and mustard may be added to the vinegar before boiling if desired. (2) Put 500 Gherkins into a large earthenware pan, and add sufficient salted water to cover them well. Two pounds of salt to every gallon of water will be sufficient, but it must be well stirred before being poured over the Gherkins. Let them remain for two hours, wash them well in it, drain, and put them in jars. Turn lgall. of vinegar into an enamelled saucepan, and drop into it |oz. each of cloves and mace, loz. each of allspice and white mustard-seed, half-a-dozen bay- leaves, a stick of horseradish cut into slices, two or three pieces (called races) of ginger-root, a grated nutmeg, and 1 handful of salt. Boil these well, and pour them on to the Gherkins. Cover the jars, tie them down tightly, and leave them for a day ; turn all out back into the pan, and simmer 3 F674 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gherkins—continued. gently on the side of the fire until the Gherkins are green. Care must be taken not to let them boil, for if they do they will turn brown, get soft, and spoil. Replace them in the jars, cover them again, and when quite cold, tie over first with bladder and then with leather, and put them in a cold place until wanted for use. (3) Cut off the ends of 21b. of Gherkins, wipe them, put them in a napkin or cloth with 2 handfuls of salt, and mix up thoroughly with it; hang up the cloth in a cool place with a basin underneath to catch the drippings, and let them remain for twelve hours. Add another couple of handfuls of salt, and repeat this in twelve hours’ time. Put the Gherkins (freed from salt) into jars, and cover them over with hot vinegar mixed with 1 wineglassful of spirits of wine, a dozen cloves, mace, allspice, and a few tarragon-leaves. Cover over the jars when cold, put them in a cool place, and in three weeks they will be ready for use. (4) Put igall. of vinegar into a lined saucepan with 3oz. of salt, J table-spoonful each of mustard and allspice, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and mace, a sliced nutmeg, and a moderate quantity of sliced horseradish. Boil the vinegar with the other ingredients for fifteen minutes, then skim it well, and leave until cold. Next pour the vinegar over the Gherkins, cover them, and let them steep for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time turn the vinegar and Gherkins into the pan, and keep them simmering until they turn green. When cold, put the pickle into jars or wide-mouthed bottles, cork, and tie them over with bladder. Keep them in a dry cup- board until wanted. (5) Use small Gherkins. Strew them plentifully with salt, and let them pickle for twenty-four hours. Dry them on a cloth, and pack in layers in jars, putting between the layers the following ingredients in small quantities: mace, shallots, tarragon-leaves, bay-leaves, and old pepper. Cover them with boiling vinegar, leave for four days, then strain off the vinegar, and boil it up again. When the vineg'ar is cold, pour it over the Gherkins, and tie a piece of stout paper over each jar. (6) Wash the required quantity of small Gherkins in cold water, cover them with cold brine—strong enough to float an egg—and leave for three days; then drain. Line a preserving- pan with green grape-leaves, put the Gherkins into it in layers, with leaves between, and cover them with more; sprinkle a little pulverised alum between the layers (a piece of alum the size of a small grain of corn will be enough for each pound of Gherkins), pour into the pan just enough cold water to cover the top layer of leaves, spread a cloth over the top of the pan, and put on the cover, placing a weight on it to keep it down; put the pan at the back of the stove, where its contents will heat gradually, and let them steam, with- out boiling, for three hours. Lay the Gherkins in cold water for an hour, and if one treatment does not green them suffi- ciently, repeat it. After the Gherkins are green, pack them in earthenware jars. Put in a saucepan over the fire sufficient vinegar to cover them, allowing Jib. of sugar and loz. of mixed whole cloves, allspice, peppercorns, mace, and cinnamon to each quart of vinegar, and as soon as it is hot, pour it over the Gherkins. When they are cold, seal them from the air. They will be ready to use in about a week. The sugar and spice may be omitted. Fig. 832. Gherkin Toasts. Gherkin Sauce.—Put a sprig of. thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, two finely-chopped shallots, a little cayenne, pepper, and salt into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar. Place the pan on the fire, and when the contents have boiled Gherkins—continued. for thirty minutes, add 1 breakfast-cupful of stock or good broth. Strain it through a fine sieve, and stir in ljoz. of liquefied butter mixed with a little flour to thicken it. Place it back in the saucepan, and when it boils stir in 1 tea- spoonful or so of parsley very finely chopped, two or three minced pickled Gherkins, and a little salt if required. A very favourite sauce for savoury dishes. Gherkin Toasts.—Finely chop eighteen Gherkins; cut eight 3in. squares of bread, and fry them in butter or clarified fat until a pale golden brown ; then drain them on a sheet of paper placed near the fire for a few minutes. Strew grated Parmesan cheese over each square of bread, and then the chopped Gherkins; dust them over with salt and a small quantity of cayenne, arrange them on a dish, and serve. See Fig. 832. Preserved Gherkins.—Steep some sound Gherkins in cold salted water for a couple of days ; take them out, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes or so. Take them out of this, put them into a pre- serving-pan with a little thin syrup, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until they are done. Arrange the Gherkins on a glass dish. Boil some sugar to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), add to it the thin syrup in which the Gherkins were cooked, and boil up again for a few minutes. Skim frequently, and when ready pour it over the Gherkins ; let them remain for a day, then take them out, thicken the syrup as before, replace the Gherkins in it, and simmer gently. Turn the syrup on to a dish, and let it remain for three days; then replace it in the pan (with the Gherkins), and repeat the process. When done, put them in jars, cover them over, and tie down. When wanted for table, arrange them in a compote-dish, and serve with the syrup. GIBELOTTE.—Fr. for a ragout generally prepared from Rabbits, under which heading it will be found fully described. GIBLETS.—The origin of this name is very uncer- tain. It is found in Old English and Old French spelled Gibelets, and signifying game, but that does not seem to give any reason for its present application. The inmeats, or edible viscera of birds, together with the feet, joints of pinions, head, and neck are known to the modern Fig. 833. Giblets. cook as Giblets (see Fig. 833). Before cooking them it is necessary to thoroughly cleanse them all, and plenty of water is required for this. The head should be chopped off the neck, the neck skimied, and the pipe drawn away. The pinions require to be thoroughly plucked, and the feet skinned by scalding and wiping with a rough cloth. The toe-nails must also be chopped off. The heart should be well squeezed, the gall-bladder carefully re- moved from the liver, and all stained parts cut away. The gizzard has to be cut open and turned inside out, when the gritty contents can be washed off, and the thick lining membrane torn away. There are many uses to which Giblets can be applied, and some very tasty dishes are prepared from them. Giblet Pie.—(1) Prepare and stew three or four sets of Giblets, and when they are done place them in a dish with the meat from the neck and pinions, arranging them in layers with a few slices of boiled bacon between them; pour in a little gravy, cover the dish with a good pie-crust, and put it in the oven for thirty minutes. If desired, mashed potatoes675 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Giblets—continued. may be put on the top instead of pie-crust, and a little mush- room or walnut ketchup poured into the dish. Celery and sweet herbs are sometimes used. (2) Bemove the livers from a couple of sets of Giblets, blanch the Giblets (including the livers), trim them, and put them in a saucepan with a little butter, a little onion finely minced, and Jib. of streaky bacon cut in slices; sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and fry very gently over a slow fire for thirty minutes; pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira or white wine, and boil until the wine has all disappeared. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of beef, put the Giblets and bacon on it, dust over with a little parsley, and add the livers. Put a little game broth into a sauce- pan, boil quickly for five minutes, skim it, and add a little kneaded butter to thicken; pass it through a fine sieve, and pour it into the dish. Wet the edges of the dish, cover them with a strip of puff paste, damp the top of this, and cover the pie over with some more paste rolled out thin. Notch the edges, decorate the centre with leaves made of paste, cut a hole in the top, and bake in a slack oven for an-hour-and- a-quarter. It will then be quite done, and may be served either hot or cold. (3) Well wash some Giblets, put them in a saucepan over the fire with a small bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a little whole black pepper ; pour over a small quantity of water, not quite enough to cover them, and stew gently till nearly done. Take them up, strain the liquor, and let both Giblets and liquor stand till cold. If there are not sufficient Giblets to fill the pie-dish, lay some mutton, veal, or beef-steak at the bottom of the dish, then put in the Giblets with the liquor they were stewed in, a few slices of peeled raw potato, and a few slices of apple peeled and cored; cover the pie with puff paste or short-crust, and after it is baked pour in 1 pint of cream. Giblet Sauce.—Put the Giblets of any bird into a sauce- pan with sufficient stock or water to cover them, and boil for three hours, adding an onion and a few peppercorns while cooking. Take them out when they are quite tender, strain the liquor into another pan, and chop up the gizzards, livers, and other parts into small pieces. Take a little of the thickening left at the bottom of the pan in which a chicken or goose has been braised, and after the fat has been taken off, mix it with the Giblet liquor, and boil until it is dissolved. Strain this sauce, put in the pieces of Giblets, and serve hot. Giblet Soup.—(1) Put 1 pint of dried green peas into a sauce- pan with Igall. of water, and boil them slowly for seven hours; add lib. of thoroughly cleaned Giblets, twelve cloves, a small piece of red pepper, and a little salt to taste, and boil for two hours longer. When the peas are reduced to a mass, rub them with the liquor through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Cut the Giblets up into small pieces, return them to the soup, boil up again, and serve hot with toast cut into dice. (2) Put the Giblets of any bird in a saucepan with the pinions chopped in halves, the feet scalded and the skin and claws removed, the neck cut into small pieces, the head split in halves and the eyes and beak taken out, the livers cut in halves, and the gizzards well cleaned and the hard white skin peeled off the inside. Put in the pan sufficient water to cover them, and stew until the gizzards are done, as they take the longest time to cook. A few carrots and onions should also be added before stewing, and a little salt and pepper sprinkled over all. Take the Giblets out, thicken the soup with flour, boil it up again, strain it, add the Giblets, and serve. (3) Put the Giblets from two or three birds in a saucepan with Igall. of water, and boil them gently until the liquor is reduced to lqt.; then take out the Giblets. Cut off the tough parts from the gizzards, add to them the livers and hearts, chop them all up into rather coarse pieces, put them into the liquor in which they were previously cooked, and add the quart of Giblet stock. Take a large onion, two slices of carrot, one of turnip, and two stalks of celery, chop them up fine, put them in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and fry for a-quarter-of-an-hour, taking care that they brown but do not burn ; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and keep on the fire until it is brown. Put this into the soup, and sprinkle in a little salt and pepper to taste. Strain the Giblets—continued. soup previous to putting in the vegetables, then put in the Giblets, and serve. If any bones of birds are used, they must be put into 3qts. of water with the Giblets, and in every other respect proceed as before. (4) Thoroughly clean a set of Giblets, and cut them into small pieces. Boil lqt. of white beans in salted water until soft, then drain them, put half of them on a wire sieve, and rub through with a wooden spoon. Cut a head of celery into small pieces, put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of broth, and boil until tender; then put the mashed beans in the soup, and stir it over the fire until quite smooth. Put the Giblets in the soup with a bunch of parsley -and sweet herbs tied together, and boil them. When the Giblets are nearly cooked, put the whole beans in the soup, season it moderately with salt and pepper, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. When ready, remove the bunch of herbs and parsley from the soup, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Clean and scald two sets of Giblets, cut the gizzards into pieces, or quarter them, and put all in a saucepan over the fire with 5 pints of water, together with 21b. of gravy- beef, several shanks of mutton or a scrag of mutton or knuckle of veal, a good bunch of sweet herbs, three onions, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and let all simmer slowly till the gizzards are quite tender, keeping it well skimmed. When the gizzards are done, take the Giblets out and strain the soup, return it to the fire, mix in sufficient flour and butter to thicken it, and stir till it boils ; then boil for ten minutes, and add 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom powder. When the soup is thickened, add the Giblets, and either 2 wineglassfuls of sherry or J pint of cream, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, and a small quantity of cayenne. Let it boil up, pour it into the tureen, taste it, and if it requires more salt, add it the last thing. (G) Chop up into small pieces Gib. of knuckle of veal (with the bones) and lib. of lean ham ; put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and add three onions, one carrot, two turnips, two heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, six cloves, a blade of mace, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Place the pan over a quick fire, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring frequently. When there appears a white glaze on the spoon with which it is stirred, add 2galls. of broth or water, and as soon as it boils remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer. Throw two sets of Giblets into a little boiling water, and scald them for five minutes ; take them out, cut them in pieces and the gizzards into quarters, put them into the stock, and let them simmer for two-hours-and-a-half, when they should be quite tender. Take them out, and strain the stock through a cloth. To clarify it, beat up the whites and shells of six eggs, add lqt. of cold stock, mix well, and strain. Bring the Giblet soup to the boil, pour in the egg mixture, and whisk all over a clear fire until the soup begins to simmer again and the eggs separate from the broth; it will then be quite clear. Take some carrots and turnips, and scoop them out with a vegetable-cutter, and cut two heads of celery into small pieces ; warm them with a little butter and sugar, put them into the soup, and boil gently until quite tender. Skim the soup, and sprinkle in a little salt and moist sugar. Place the Giblets and some cooked French beans or Dcas in the tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (7) Scald the Giblets' of two geese or ducks, cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with I Alb. of gravy-beef also cut into pieces, two peeled onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper in moderate quantities ; pour in sufficient cold water to cover, and place them over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side, and let the liquor simmer until the gizzards ar-e tender. Next strain the soup through a fine sieve, return it to the saucepan, and mix with it loz. of butter kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and boil for ten minutes longer. Skim the soup, add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of cayenne, and put in the Giblets again. When the Giblets are hot, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Giblet Soup witb Leeks.—Blanch a couple of either turkey or goose Giblets, trim and divide them, and put them in a saucepan with enough broth to cover: set the pan on the fire, and boil gently until the meat is half cooked. Cut five 3 f 2676 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, rbe,, referred to, see under their special heads. Giblets—continued. or six leeks in pieces, blanch in salted water, drain, and add them to the broth. When the leeks and Giblets are thoroughly cooked, skim the broth, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve hot. Giblet Stuffing' for Turkeys.—Put the Giblets in a sauce- pan over the fire with boiling water to cover, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of salt and J saltspoonful of pepper and boil gently until they are tender. Save the water in which the Giblets were boiled to use for gravy. Chop the Giblets quite fine, put them in a frying-pan over the fire, with 4oz. of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs, and a good seasoning of ' salt, pepper, and any powdered sweet herb except sage; stir all these ingredients together until they are light brown, add 1 wineglassful of sherry or Madeira wine, and the forcemeat is ready for use. Haricot of Giblets.—Wash the Giblets of any bird, and scald and blanch them in a pan of hot water; take them out, drain, wrap up in slices of bacon, put them in a sauce- pan, pour over a little broth to moisten them, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve with brown sauce. Stewed Giblets.—(1) Clean, wash, and dry the Giblets from three or four birds, flour them all over, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry. Take the gizzards, clean them, remove the inside hard skin, cut up into slices, and put them into a saucepan with six onions cut up and fried, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper; add the other Giblets and sufficient stock or water to cover them, place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour or so until they are quite done. Take them out, strain, and skim the stock. Pass the onions through a fine sieve, and mix them with 1 table-spoonful of boiled flour ; stir this into the stock, boil up again, add the Giblets, and when they are quite hot, serve either with a few force- meat balls or a puree of green peas or haricot beans, or plain. (2) Clean some goose or duck Giblets, put them into a saucepan with a small onion, some black pepper, and a bunch of sweet hei'bs; pour over a little water, and let them stew slowly till nearly done; add salt to taste, and a very small quantity of mace, and, if they require it, a little more pepper. When the Giblets are quite tender, give them one boil in | pint of cream thickened with flour and butter, and serve hot. (3) Clean a set of Giblets, cut them up, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of gravy, a seasoning of allspice, salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, sage, and a chopped onion ; stew till tender, take them out, plunge into cold water, and trim off any objectionable parts. Strain the gravy back into the saucepan, thicken with a liaison of flour and butter, pour in a wineglassful of sherry, put back the Giblets, warm them up, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Any Giblets may be used. Prepare them, cleaning thoroughly, put them in a stewpan with sufficient well- flavoured clear beef stock to cover, and let them simmer gently until tender. Put the Giblets on a dish and strain the stock into a basin. When the liquor has cooled, skim off all the fat, pour it into a saucepan, put in a sufficient quantity of dried split peas, and boil until very soft. Put the Giblets in with the peas to warm up again, and season with salt and pepper to taste. When ready, turn the Giblets and peas on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. GIGOT.—This term is commonly used in Scotland, and is the French for a leg of mutton. It is probably derived from the Old French gigue—a fiddle, in allusion to its shape. Sometimes the word is spelled Giggets, signifying small slips or slices of any kind of flesh. GILANG.—A Malayan fermented liquor made from rice. GILXAS.—This is the German term for delicately- flavoured kirschwasser and liqueur drinks, mostly affected by German ladies. They are so called after a celebrated manufacturer of liqueurs in Berlin named Gilka. GIMBLETTES. — These are very tasty French biscuits made in the form of rings. Beat up three eggs, mix them thoroughly with 4oz. of sifted sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls of rasped lemon-peel, and then add 6 table-spoonfuls of flour, making a paste neither too stiff nor too soft for rolling well; roll this out |in. thick, stamp out rounds 2in. in diameter with a paste-cutter, and cut out the centre with a lin. diameter cutter, so as to form rings. Have ready a large stewpan of boiling water, and throw the rings in one at a time, removing with a skimmer as soon as they rise to the surface ; drain them on a napkin, and put them on oiled baking-sheets to bake in a moderately hot oven. When nearly done, lightly brush them over with white of egg, and put them back into the oven for a few minutes to dry. GIN.—This word is a contraction of Geneva, by which term it is also known as a corruption of genievre, the French for juniper. The original Gin, we are informed by Blyth, is a soft rich spirit, flavoured chiefly with juniper-berries, and for some time wholly obtained from Holland, and known as Hollands, or Hollands Gin. The Gin now met with in commerce is a very different liquid to that formerly imported. In Holland it is made solely from unmalted rye and barley malt, rectified with juniper- berries. In Britain Gin is for the most part obtained from a mixture of malt and barley; molasses and corn being sometimes employed, particularly when there is a scarcity of grain ; and it is not only flavoured with juniper-berries, but with oil of turpentine, creosote, fusel- oil, various aromatic substances, liquorice powder, orange- peel, and several other matters. Sulphuric acid may also be added to give the spirit a sparkling appearance, tech- nically termed a “ bead.” Cooley tells us that turpentine conveys a plain-gin flavour; juniper-berries or oil gives a Hollands flavour; creosote imparts a certain degree of smokiness, or whisky flavour; lemon and the other aromatics, a creaminess, fulness, and richness. The flavour imparted by carda- moms, when used judiciously, is peculiarly agreeable and appropriate; that from caraways is held in general esteem; cassia in extremely small proportions also tells well. Fusel-oil gives a whisky-gin flavour; and in conjunction with creosote or crude pyroligneous acid, a full whisky flavour. The only danger in the employment of all these ai-ticles, Cooley further observes, is in using too much of them. Creaminess in Hollands results from age, and the English distiller tries to imitate this by adding sugar; hence we have “sweetened” and “unsweetened” Gins. Other Gins take their names from certain traits in their manufac- ture or localities: thus, we have in addition to the two already mentioned, Cordial Gin, Fine Gin, Grog Gin, London Gin, West Country Gin, and Old Tom. Genuine Gin is made by distillation, but there are some kinds in the market made by dissolving flavouring ingredients in plain spirit. The following receipt gives instructions for preparing a very fair imitation: Steep 4oz. of angelica and 11 lb. of juniper-berries in a bottle with lgall. of spirit, leaving them for a fortnight ; then filter the liquor into another bottle, and add |oz. each of spirit of capsicum and spirit of coriander, mixing them well in. Turn this into a cask containing figalls. of over- proof silent or plain spirit, add a little alum finings reduced with water, bung up, and use in a few weeks’ time. Should the Grin be required sweet, add before the finings lgall. of syrup made with 81b. of sugar boiled in lgall. of water, taking care to have it well skimmed, and adding it when quite cold Gin and Cloves Nip.—Clove cordial and Gin in equal propor- tions to fill a wineglass. Gin Punch.—(1) Put 3qts. of thin syrup into a bowl, drop in Joz. of essence of lemon, stir well, and add in the order given, \oz. of essence of Gin, 1 breakfast-cupful of clarified lime-juice, and goz. of tincture of cloves. (2) Put the rind of a lemon in £ pint of old Gin to infuse, and then add 1 gill of maraschino, the juice of677 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Gin—continued. two lemons, lj gills of syrup, and lqt. of seltzer water. Mix well, put it on ice, and let it remain for an hour or so. (3) Bub off the rinds of twelve lemons with lib. of loaf sugar, pound it in a mortar, add the strained juice of the lemons, pour over 1 pint of boiling water, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. In the meantime, infuse 4oz. of tea and 1 dessert-spoonful of coriander-seeds in 1 pint of boiling water in a closed vessel for twenty minutes. Strain this liquor and add it to the lemon-juice, pour in lgall. of Gin, let the mixture get cold, and bottle. It must be kept in a cool place until used. (4) Drop six drops of essence of lemon on 2oz. of sugar, grind it in a mortar, then add \ pint each of lime-fruit syrup and maraschino, and stir them well together; now pour in 1 pint of old Gin, and set it on ice to get cold; then pour it into a cold punch-bowl, pour over all two bottles of lemonade, and serve. Gin Sling.—(1) Put 2 teaspoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar into a glass, stir in J wineglassful of water, and when the sugar has dissolved, add 1 wineglassful of Gin; then put in a lump of ice, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve. (2) Pour a liqueur-glassful of maraschino into a large tankard or glass, half fill with small pieces of ice, put in a few pieces of the outer rind of a lemon, and as much unsweetened Gin as is required; over this pour a bottle of soda-water, and stir well until mixed. It should be drunk through straws. A very small quantity of borage may be added to improve the flavour. (3) Put a little grated lemon-peel in a large jug with a good teaspoonful of sugar, three or four leaves of mint, 1 wineglassful of Gin, and 1 liqueur-glassful of maraschino; pour in a bottle of lemonade, or if preferred a bottle of seltzer water, add plenty of crushed ice, and serve. Gin Smash..—Put 1 dessert-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar into a i-pint glass, pour in 1 dessert-spoonful of water, and stir round until the sugar has nearly or quite dissolved ; then pour in 1 wineglassful of old Gin, put in a few lumps of ice, and give the glass a shake; then fill up with more ice, put a few thin slices of orange on top, and serve with straws. GINGER (Fr. Gingembre; Ger. Ingwer; Ital. Gen- giovo; Sp. Gengibre).—This is described in the British Pharmacopoeia as the scraped and dried rhizome (root- stock or underground stem) of Zingiber officinale. Black or East Indian Ginger is the unscraped rhizome prepared by scalding; white, or Jamaica Ginger, is the scraped rhizome dried in the sun. Cooley tells us that the best Ginger is that known in commerce as “unbleached Jamaica Ginger,” which is an uncoated pale variety, occurring in large, bold fleshy pieces, which cut soft, bright, and pale-coloured. The inferior varieties occur in smaller pieces, and are dark coloured, flinty, and shrivelled. The dealers frequently “ dress up ” the common dark-coloured Gingers by washing them in water, drying them, and then “rouncing” them in a bag with a little calcined whiting or magnesia, and this they term “washed Ginger or they bleach them by dipping into a solution of chloride of lime, or by exposing them to the fumes of burning sulphur, which they then style “bleached Ginger”; or they dip them into a milk formed of quicklime or whiting and water, and call this very appropriately “white- washed Ginger.” The latter has a peculiar chalk-white surface which cannot be mistaken for the natural one. Powdered Ginger is very rarely, if ever, quite pure, being commonly adulterated with wheat-flour or arrowroot, and sometimes plantain-meal, but these adulterants are easily detected by dissolving in hot water, and tasting. Fresh green Ginger is now sometimes imported from the East Indies. Ginger is much used by confectioners, as the following receipts will show: Essence of Ginger.—(1) Put lib. of bruised white Jamaica Ginger into a jar with lqt. of over-proof spirit, and let it remain for fully three weeks, giving the jar a shake daily. Strain and filter. The jar should be kept in a temperature of 70deg. during the infusion. Ginger—continued. (2) Pour lqt. of brandy into a largo bottle, add 2oz. of very thinly-cut lemon-peel and 3oz. of ground Ginger, and give the bottle a shake daily for a fortnight. Strain through a very fine cloth, and bottle. Gingerade.—Put jib. of ground Ginger in a saucepan with Jgall. of water, and boil for half-an-hour; strain it through a cloth, put it into another saucepan, add 31b. of sugar, and boil it to a syrup (see Syrups), skimming it occasionally so as to have it quite clear. When it is cold, stir in loz. of citric acid, and put it into bottles. Two table-spoonfuls in a tumbler of water, with a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it, makes a pleasant summer drink. Ginger Beer.—(1) Steep 3oz. of pounded Ginger in 4galls. of boiling water, and when cold strain it through flannel. Dis- solve in the liquor 51b. of loaf sugar, put in ^ pint of yeast and 2j0z. of cream of tartar. If the weather is cold, stand the cask near the fire, so as to excite brisk fermentation. As soon as this subsides, rack off the clear liquor, wash the cask, put the liquor in again, and allow it to work for two or three days. Draw it off, bottle, and cork tightly, fixing the corks down with wire or string. (2) Tie up in a muslin bag loz. of sliced Ginger and Joz. of dried orange-peel; put them in a pan with lgall. of water, and boil for an hour. Take the bag out, and mix with the liquor foz. of tartaric acid, 20 drops of essence of lemon, and ljlb. of loaf sugar. When cool, add i teacupful of fresh yeast. When the beer has worked for twelve hours, bottle, and cork down tightly. Tie the corks down with wire or string, and store in a cool place. (3) Put in a large copper pan 31b. of loaf sugar, 2joz. of bruised Ginger, and 3.jgalls. of water. Boil for twenty minutes; take it off the fire, stir in the juice and rind of two lemons, and loz. of cream of tartar. When cool, pour in 1 pint of fresh yeast, cover over, and let it work for three days, skimming occasionally. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into a cask, pour in J pint of brandy, and fix the bung down tightly. It will be ready for bottling in two or three weeks’ time. (4) Put in a saucepan over the fire l|galls. of soft water, 3oz. of powdered Ginger, foz. of cream of tartar, three large lemons sliced, and 31b. of loaf sugar broken small. Let this simmer over a slow fire for half-an- hour. Take it from the fire then, and when nearly cold stir in 3 or 4 dessert-spoonfuls of yeast. When it has fermented, bottle it for use. (5) Pour 4galls. of boiling water over 41b. of brown sugar, 3oz. of ground Ginger, and 3oz. of cream of tartar. When well stirred and mixed, put it into a small cask, add to it, when cooled to milkwarm, 1 pint of good yeast. Stop the cask close, shake it well, and in twenty-four hours the Ginger beer will be fit to bottle. Three or four lemons cut in slices and added are a great improvement. Cork the bottles well, and in ten days’ time it will sparkle and be fit for drinking. (6) Bruise coarsely in a mortar 6oz. of Ginger, and put it into a tub with 51b. of loaf sugar and four sliced lemons ; pour in 7galls. of boiling water and leave it until nearly cold. Next put in 3 table-spoonfuls of yeast, stir the mixture thoroughly, and let it ferment for twenty-four hours. Dis- solve about -goz. of isinglass in a small quantity of vinegar, and stir it into the beer when fermentation ceases. Leave the beer for two days and nights, then skim it well, and bottle, being careful not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. Cork the bottles tightly with corks that have been steeped in boiling water for ten minutes, tie them down with twine or wire, and pack away in a cool cellar. (7) Put 2oz. of root Ginger into a pan with 2galls. of cold water, and boil it for fifteen minutes ; then turn it into a tub, put in 21b. of loaf sugar, loz. of cream of tartar, and two thinly-sliced lemons. Leave it until nearly cold, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast spread on a piece of toast. Cover the tub and let the contents work for twenty- four hours, then skim off the yeast, and bottle, being very careful not to disturb the sediment at the bottom ; cork and wire the bottles securely, and in two days’ time the beer will be ready for use. (8) Indian.—Put loz. of well-bruised peeled Ginger into a saucepan with loz. of cream of tartar, lib. of loaf sugar,678 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. a small quantity of toddy, the juice and a little of the rind of a large lime; pour in 4qts. of water, and boil for about twenty minutes. Let the liquid get nearly cold, pour in a claret-glassful of fresh toddy, let it stand for six or eight hours, pour into bottles, and it is ready for use. (9) Put into a large bowl loz. of bruised Ginger, 3oz. of cream of tartar, loz. of lemon-juice, and l|lb. of loaf sugar ; pour over l.J galls, of boiling water, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of yeast. When the whole is thoroughly mixed and cool, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and keep in a ccol place until wanted. Ginger-Beer Powder.—Mix thoroughly 51b. of sifted pounded loaf sugar with ljlb. of tartaric acid, lib. of bicarbonate gf soda, ljoz. of powdered or ground Ginger, and goz. of essence of lemon ; then pass the whole through a very fine sieve, and tie it up in small parcels as required for use. The air must not be allowed to get to it, otherwise it will spoil. Ginger Biscuits.—(1) Hub 4oz. of butter into Jib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in Jib. of caster sugar and £ table-spoonful of ground Ginger; beat the yolks of two eggs with | teacupful of cream ; stir them in with the dry ingredients, mixing thoroughly, and adding more cream or milk if necessary to bring the paste to the proper consistency. Put it on a paste-board or table, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. With a small paste-cutter, about 11 in. in Fig. 834. Ginger Biscuits. diameter, cut as many rounds as possible out of the paste, constantly dipping the cutter in flour to prevent it sticking. Dredge a baking-sheet lightly over with flour, lay the biscuits on it a short distance from each other, and put them into a very slow oven. When cooked, the biscuits should be crisp, but not browned, or they will be spoilt; take them off the baking-sheet, lay them on a dish until cold, when they should be packed away in biscuit-tins, and kept in a dry place. See Fig. 834. (2) Take Jib. of biscuit-flour, and rub loz. of softened butter into it. When the butter is absorbed, put in 2oz. of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, and mix all together, adding the yolk of an egg beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of cream (or milk) to make the mixture into a stiff paste. Roll this out on a board to gin. thick, cut it into round shapes, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Put 8oz. of caster sugar into a copper basin with three eggs, and work them well with a spoon until the mixture is quite thick ; break three more eggs, and work in one at a time, beating thoroughly before another is added. Continue to work this mixture over the fire for ten minutes longer; then take it from the fire and stir in gradually 4oz. of flour mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger and a few drops of essence of lemon. Butter some oblong-shaped tin moulds, dust them with potato-flour, put the mixture in, set them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven for twelve minutes. (4) Rub 4oz. of butter in lib. of flour until quite smooth, then mix in Jib. of moist sugar, 1J table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and a very small quantity of cayenne; dissolve J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in J pint of molasses, and stir it in. If necessary, add more flour or treacle to bring the whole to a stiff dough, and work it until quite smooth. Cover the dough and let it remain for nine or ten hours in a warm temperature. When ready, divide it into three equal-sized pieces, and roll each piece out as thinly as possible; with a biscuit-cutter 2in. in diameter cut the flats of dough into rounds, dredge some baking-tins with flour, and lay the rounds on them, lifting them up by means of a broad knife. Bake in a quick oven until lightly browned, then take them out, and when slightly cooled, remove from the baking-sheets. The biscuits should bo kept dry in tins. Ginger—continued. (5) Warm lib. of butter, beat it to a froth, then add 1 jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of ground Ginger, one grated nutmeg, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Roll it out thin on a floured board, cut it into shapes, and bake in a sharp oven. (6) Rub ljlb. of moist sugar in with an equal quantity of warmed fresh butter, and then work in eight well-beaten eggs. Sift 2gib. of flour with Joz. of ground Ginger and loz. of volatile salts; add them to the sugar mixture to form a paste, roll it out to the required thickness, cut it into fancy shapes with tin cutters, and bake in a moderate oven until crisp. Ginger Brandy.—(1) Stone 21b. of raisins, put them in a large earthen jar, with the thinly-pared rind of two lemons, 1 .Voz. of ground Ginger, and 2qts. of pale brandy. Cover the jar, and let the contents steep for fourteen days ; then strain the brandy, and sweeten it with 21b. of caster sugar. Pour it into bottles and cork tightly. (2) Bruise 2oz. of Jamaica Ginger, put it into a large earthen jar, with 2qts. of brandy, and steep it for fourteen days. Boil 3 pints of water with 1 Lib. of loaf sugar to a thin syrup (see Svrups), leave it until cold, then mix it with the brandy. Filter the brandy until quite clear, then pour it into bottles, and cork. It will take some time to clear. (3) Wash 81b. of grocers’ currants, put them in a jar with Jib. of ground Ginger, and pour over 2galls. of brandy. Let it stand for a week or ten days, stirring often. When ready, strain the liquor through a silk sieve, and return it to the jar. Put 81b. of loaf sugar in a large pan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Let the sugar get somewhat cool, then stir it into the liquor. Leave it for a week longer, stirring occasionally, then leave it untouched for some time. When all the sediment of the liquor has settled, pour the clear fluid care- fully into bottles, cork down tightly, and pack away in a dry cellar. Ginger-Brandy Liqueur.—Put into a glass bottle l gall. each of syrup and brown brandy 40deg. under proof, add loz. of essence of Ginger, and it is ready to use as required. Ginger spirit may be substituted for the essence of Ginger if preferred. Ginger Buns.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, and work it to a cream with Jib. of sugar; add half a nutmeg (grated) and 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger. Mix these thoroughly, and beat in two eggs; then add lib. of flour, and stir in Fig. 835. Ginger Buns. sufficient milk to make it of such consistency that it can be easily worked. Put the paste on a board, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, cut it into buns, sprinkle broken sugar over the tops (see Fig. 835), put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. Ginger Cake. — (1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar, molasses, and butter (or half lard and half butter) into a basin with three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table- spoonful of butter-milk, and mix in 2J breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Add a little allspice if desired. Pour the mixture into a mould, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Mix together lib. of molasses, 6oz. of brown sugar, Joz. of cinnamon, eighteen cloves, three dozen allspice, all finely powdered, 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger, Jib. of butter, and sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. Bake in a moderate oven, and watch it carefully to prevent burning.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 679 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. (3) Put lib. of treacle and 6oz. of butter into a saucepan, and beat it oyer a gentle fire until the butter is melted. Mix jib. of sugar with 21b. of sifted flour, stir in the melted butter-and-treacle with 1 teacupful of cream, and mix the whole smoothly. Butter some sheets of white paper and line a cake-tin with them, pour in the mixture, put it into a slow oven, and bake for an hour. Take the cake out of the tin when cooked, and remove the paper. (4) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar, molasses, sour cream, and warmed butter in a basin, and add three eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Stir these well together, and work in with a spoon sufficient flour to make it a light paste, so that the spoon will almost stand upright in it. Pour it into a mould, and bake in a moderate oven until done. A little ground cloves and cinnamon may also be added if desired. (5) Put lib. of flour and fib. of butter on to a board, work them well together, and add fib. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and 2oz. of ground Ginger. Mix these thoroughly, working them with the hands. Make the paste up into one lump, and divide it into four parts. Roll these out to about -Jin. in thickness, and with a tin cutter cut them into shapes. Put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and place in the oven to bake. When about half done, brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle over some sugar, and let them finish baking, when they should be a light golden colour. (6) Take 3oz. of ground Ginger 'and sprinkle it into .j pint of water in a saucepan. Put the pan on the fire and boil for a few minutes, remove it to the side, and let the liquor cool. Pile ljlb. of flour on a paste-board, make a bay in the centre, and rub six pieces of candied orange-peel through a sieve into it, and mix in witli the Ginger-water to form a stiff paste; roll it out to fin. thick, and cut it into shapes with a biscuit-cutter. Dock them all over, and set in the oven to bake. (7) Put fib. each of treacle, moist sugar, and butter into a lined stewpan, and stir them at the side of the fire with a wooden spoon until hot and mixed; then turn them into a basin, and stir in ljlb. of sifted flour mixed with 1 heaped table-spoonful of ground Ginger and 3 teaspoonfuls of bicar- bonate of soda. Beat four eggs, and mix them with the other ingredients, working the whole into a smooth dough, adding, drop by drop, 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Butter a baking-tin; pour the mixture on to it, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooke 1, cut the cake into squares or diamonds, and when cold put it in tins where it will keep dry. (8) Rub fib. of butter in lib. of sifted flour until quite smooth, then mix in with it 1 heaped table-spoonful of ground Ginger, 2oz. of moist sugar, fib. of treacle, and 1 table- spoonful of cream. Beat two eggs well, and stir them in with the mixture, add also about f teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of warm water. Butter some small tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. When cooked and cold, keep them dry in tins. (9) Beat 3oz. of butter to a cream, work in 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, beating vigorously for a few minutes; add one egg, beat again, sift in 8oz. of flour with foz. of ground Ginger mixed with it, and form the whole into a paste with milk. Roll this out rather thin, cut it into rounds with a biscuit- cutter, put the cakes on a baking-sheet (not greased), and bake in a quick oven. Take them out, and use when cold. (10) Work fib. of butter into lflb. of flour until quite smooth, then add fib. of caster sugar, If table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; beat two eggs well, stir them into the above ingredients with a sufficient quantity of warm milk in which a very small piece of ammonia has been dissolved, and form the whole into a stiff paste. Roll it out to about fin. in thickness, and with a round tin cutter, 2in. in diameter, cut the paste into cakes. Lay them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, let the cakes get cold, then put them into biscuit-tins. Ginger Candy,—(1) Boil lib. of sugar with 1 breakfast-cupful of water in a sugar-boiler until it comes to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Stir in 1 table-spoonful of essence of Ginger, and then work the sugar against the sides of the pan with Ginger—continued. a spatula or smooth piece of wood until it granulates or turns white. Have ready some oiled tins, put them on the stove,- pour in the syrup, and let it get cold. A little vegetable yellow should be added whilst the syrup is boiling, to give it a good Ginger colour. (2) Put 3oz. of coarsely-powdered Ginger into If pints of boiling water, and let them macerate in a warm temperature for two hours ; strain, add 51b. of moist sugar and 51b. of lump, and boil to a candy (see Sugar-boiling). (3) Grate foz. of Ginger, put it into a preserving-pan over a slow fire with fib. of powdered white sugar and just enough water to melt the sugar, keep stirring till the sugar boils, add another fib. of sugar, and stir till it thickens; take it from the fire, drop it on earthenware plates, and set in a warm place to dry. The pieces of candy should be white, hard, and brittle. (4) Put loz. of grated Ginger into a sugar-boiler with lib. of crushed loaf sugar and sufficient water to dissolve it. Stir the contents of the pan over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil, then mix in another pound of crushed loaf sugar, and continue stirring until thick. Take the pan off, and drop the candy in small cakes upon earthen dishes. Put the candy in a warm place till it dries hard and white, when it may be taken off, and put by for use. Ginger-Candy Tablets.—Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with only just sufficient water to dissolve it, and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Add a few drops of acetic acid and 1 dessert-spoonful of essence of Ginger. Rub a little of the sugar against the sides of the boiler with a spatula, to whiten it, and pour into small square tins or moulds slightly smeared over with oil of almonds. Place the moulds in a screen to dry, and let them remain for thirty minutes, when the candy should be perfectly hard. A little orange sugar or wet gamboge may be added when boiling to give it a good colour. Ginger Cordial.—(1) Cut 8oz. of Ginger into small pieces or bruise it in a mortar, put it into a pint bottle, and fill it up with brandy. Let it remain in this for a month, shaking frequently; then strain off the brandy into another bottle, let it stand to get clear, and it is ready for use. A little of this cordial is very nice in 1 wineglassful of syrup, or it makes a good stomach tonic by putting 1 teaspoonful into a wineglassful of sherry or Madeira. Gin is sometimes used to make the cordial instead of brandy. (2) Macerate 20oz. of bruised Jamaica Ginger in a jar with 2qts. of white-wine brandy, and add the rind of ten lemons, cut very fine. Shake the jar every day, and after ten days strain it. Pour 2 pints of boiling water over 2Hb. of loaf sugar to form a syrup, and when it is cold add it to the brandy ; filter the whole through filtering-paper, and it is then ready for use. (3) Bruise jib. of whole Ginger and put it in a basin; remove the stalks from 21b. of red currants, and put them in with the Ginger, also add 1 table-spoonful of blanched sweet almonds, the juice of two small lemons, and the thinly-pared rind of one. Pour in igall. of whisky, put a plate over the basin, and stand it in a cool temperature. In about twelve days’ time, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan, put in 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and stir the whole over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved. Take the pan off the fire and leave the cordial until quite cold. Pour it into bottles, and cork tightly. (4) Crush and mash 41b. of white or red currants, strain the juice out through a coarse straining-cloth, wringing it well; add to the juice 21b. of loaf sugar broken small, and stir till it is quite dissolved ; put it into a stone jar with the strained juice of two lemons, 4 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and 1 pint of whisky. Let it stand in a cool place for a week, keeping the jar well corked and shaking well every day. Then strain and bottle it, cork well, seal and wire the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides in a cool dry place. Two table-spoonfuls of this Ginger cordial in a tumblerful of iced water makes a refreshing summer drink. (5) Pick the stalks off 81b. of white currants, bruise them, put them in a large crock with the thinly-pared rinds of eight large lemons, 4oz. of ground Ginger, and lgall. of brandy or whisky. Let the mixture remain in the crook for twenty*680 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under thru• special heads. Ginger—continued. four hours, then strain the liquor and sweeten it with 51b. of pounded loaf sugar. Bottle the cordial, cork tightly, and keep in a cool cellar. Ginger Cream. — (1) Put foz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of boiling milk and let it soak. Take ljoz. of preserved Ginger and cut it up very small. Put J pint of double cream in a basin, whip it until it is stiff, add 2oz. of caster sugar, a little at a time, then 1 table-spoonful of syrup of Ginger, Fig. 836. Ginger Cream. next J teaspoonful of essence of Ginger. Mix thoroughly, and then add the milk and gelatine, and lastly the preserved Ginger. When the mixture is cool, put it into a rook-shaped mould and place it on the ice to set. Serve on an orna- mental glass dish. See Fig. 836. (2) Strain the syrup from lib. of preserved Ginger into a basin, and mix with it 1 pint of thick cream in which loz. of isinglass has been steeped ; turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, add loz. of caster sugar, stir it until the isinglass is dissolved, turn it into a basin, and stir occasionally until cold. Cut the preserved Ginger into very small pieces, mix with it the strained juice of a small lemon, stir the Ginger gradually in with the cream, turn it into a mould, and stand in a cool place or on ice until quite firm and cold. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and serve. Ginger Cream Ice.—(1) Put 1J pints of cream or milk into a saucepan with fib. of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, 6oz. of preserved Ginger (well pounded), and 1 pinch of salt. Place the pan on the fire, and stir frequently until the mixture begins to thicken. Pour it out, let it get cold, put it in the freezer, and freeze. (2) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with Jib. of preserved Ginger well pounded in a mortar, set the pan on a brisk fire, and stir well. Just before it boils, remove the pan from the fire, strain the mixture through a cloth into the freezer, and freeze. (3) Indian.—Put fib. of preserved Ginger in a mortar and beat it until well bruised; then mix with it lib. of caster sugar, the strained juice of one large lemon or two small ones, and lqt. of thick cream. Beat the whole well together for a few minutes, then strain it through a hair sieve. Turn the mixture into a freezer and work it well until frozen. Afterwards it may be served in glasses, or packed up in moulds, and kept in ice until wanted. Ginger Cup-Puddings.—Mix a small quantity of grated nutmeg and Ginger with 1 table-spoonful of flour, add 1 pinch of salt, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream and one beaten egg. Turn the mixture into a> cup or small basin, tie it up with a cloth, and boil for half-an-hour. A few currants may be added if liked, but they should previously be well washed. One of these puddings should be made for each person. Ginger Drink.—In 5galls. of water mix Jgall. of molasses, lqt. of vinegar, and 2oz. of powdered Ginger. This will make not only a very pleasant beverage, but one highly invigorating and healthful. Ginger Drops.—(1) Put loz. of candied orange-peel in a mortar with a small quantity of powdered white sugar, and pound to a paste. Mix Joz. of finely-ground white Ginger Ginger—co ntinued. with Jib. of powdered white sugar, wet it with a little water, mix it with the pounded orange-peel and sugar, boil all together to a candy (see Sugar-boiling), and let it fall in small drops on paper. When quite cold, take them off the paper and dry on sieves on the stove (2) Put lib. of sugar in a sugar-boiler with 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and place it on the fire. Boil until it comes to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), and then add a little citric acid and 1 table-spoonful of essence of Ginger. Con- tinue to boil until it comes to the caramel degree, add a few drops of essence of lemon, and pour it while still hot into small hollows made in powdered starch. When the drops are cold, take them out, and they are ready for use. Gingerette.—Mix 7 J minims of oil of bitter orange with Jgall. of Ginger syrup, filter until quite bright, adding a little silica or magnesia if required; add to this 1 fluid ounce of essence of raspberries, J fluid ounce of acetic acid, and J fluid ounce of sugar colouring. The raspberry essence should be quite soluble. Bottle and use as required. Ginger Gin.—This is prepared in the same way as Ginger- Brandy Liqueur, substituting gin for the brown brandy. Ginger Ice.—Put the yolks of eight eggs into a saucepan with fib. of sugar, and work it with a wooden spoon until quite frothy; stir in 1 pint of boiling milk and a little orange or lemon flavouring. Let it get cold, and place it in the freezer until it thickens. Put Jib. of preserved Ginger in a mortar, pound it well, pass it through a fine sieve, and add first a few table-spoonfuls of rum and then a few table-spoonfuls of the ice. When these ingredients are exhausted, place it again into the freezer, work it, and when firm place on a paper on a dish, in the form of rocks, and serve. Ginger Loaf.—Rub 6oz. of butter or dripping into lib. of flour, put it in a basin, and adl Jib. of moist sugar, Joz. of ground Ginger, and half the latter quantity of mixed spice, or a little powdered cloves and nutmeg. When it is well mixed, add three well-beaten eggs and fib. of treacle. Work this vigorously, add 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 wineglassful of warm water, and turn it into a well-buttered shallow square tin, only half filling it to allow for rising ; 2oz. of candied peel finely minced or Joz. of caraway-seeds may be added if desired. Put the tin in a moderate oven, and bake slowly until done. See Fig. 837. Ginger Lozenges.—Put loz. of powdered Ginger and lib. of caster sugar into a basin, and mix it into a paste with dissolved gum, made by dissolving 2Jib. of gum arabic and loz. of gum dragon in 2J pints of water. Add a little vegetable yellow for colouring, roll the paste out about Jin. thick, cut it up into lozenges, dust them over with starch- powder and sugar to prevent them sticking to the slab, place them on wooden trays, and put them in a screen or on a stove to dry. Ginger Lump.—Put 1 teacupful each of flour and brown meal into a basin, and rub in 2oz. of lard; when smooth, mix in J teacupful of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of baking-powder and ground Ginger, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, and a small quantity of warmed milk to moisten. Beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, then pile it up in a buttered tin, and bake for nearly an-hour- and-a-half. The cake should not be cut on the same day that it is made.681 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. Ginger Pancakes.— (1) Put in a mortar jib. of preserved Ginger and pound it, then mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of frangipane, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with jib. of sifted flour, 4oz. of caster sugar and a little salt; then stir in six beaten eggs and j pint of milk. Melt jib. of butter, add that and the grated peel of half a lemon, and work the mixture till quite smooth. Put jib. of butter in a small stewpan and melt it; dip a paste-brush in the butter, and brush over the bottom of a small omelet-pan; put in 2 table-spoonfuls of the batter at a time, fry both sides, then turn the pancake on to a baking-sheet. When all the batter is used, cover the pancakes one by one with a thin layer of the Ginger preparation; fold them lengthwise, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, ornament with meringue, and stand the dish in a moderate oven for a short time. Put a circle of preserved greengages round the pancakes, decorate the meringue with preserved fruits, or dried fruit pastes, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs together, then mix them in lqt. of milk. Put 6oz. of flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of grated Ginger and 1 pinch of salt in a basin, and stir in the milk and eggs, pouring it in gradually to prevent the flour becoming lumpy ; add also 1 wineglassful of brandy. Fry the pancakes and put them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Ginger Pastille Drops.—To make these drops successfully, only a little of the ingredients should be used at a time. Put 3ioz. of caster sugar into a small long-spouted saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of water, place it over the fire, and stir until the sugar begins to dissolve at the bottom of the pan ; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice and 1 teaspoonful of essence of Ginger; when this is mixed, remove the pan from the fire and drop the mixture in rows close together on a stiff sheet of paper. Let it get firm, turn the paper upside down, damp it, and shake it a little, when the drops should fall off. Any that still remain can be eased off with the point of a knife. Put them on a sieve, roll the sieve about over a slow fire so that the drops may dry, pack them in glass bottles, cork down tightly, and store in a cool place until wanted for use. Ginger Pudding.—(1) Trim off all the skin and finely chop jib. of beef-suet, then put it into a basin, and mix in jib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mix these in- gredients well, then stir in 1 teacupful each of milk and treacle and one beaten egg. Thickly butter the interior of a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper, tying it round the rim of the basin. Put the basin into a saucepan of boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for two hours, taking care that the water does not enter the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crumbs of French rolls in a basin with just as much milk as they will absorb, and let them soak for an hour or two. Then mix with the soaked bread jib. of finely-shred preserved Ginger, 1 table-spoonful of the syrup, and jib. of caster sugar. Beat these ingre- dients well for half-an-hour, mixing in, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs. Beat the whites of the eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Thickly butter the interior of a channeled mould, pour the mixture into it, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper ; stand the mould in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the pudding for five hours. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust it over with caster sugar, and serve. (3) Put j pint of milk into a saucepan with 3oz. of butter, and boil, stirring well; mix in 3oz. of flour and stir until it is perfectly smooth. Take the pan off the fire and let it cool for about ten minutes ; then add the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, mixing each one in thoroughly before adding another. Cut 3oz. of preserved Ginger into very small pieces, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup of the Ginger, add it to the egg mixture, and work it well. Put three eggs in a basin, whip them to a stiff froth, add them, and mix again. Butter a plain pudding-mould, dust it over with sugar, pour in the mixture, and place in a saucepan of boiling Ginger—continued. water for an hour. When done, serve it with a little sweet sauce. (4) Trim off the skin and finely chop jib. of beef-suet, put it in a basin with jib. of flour, jib. of breadcrumbs, 1 table- spoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, and a small quantity of finely-shred lemon-peel. Mix in jib. of treacle, Fig. 838. Ginger Pudding. turn the mixture into a buttered mould, tie a cloth over it, and boil for four hours. When ready, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve with or without rhubarb jam round it. See Fig. 838. (5) Put 4oz. of flour into a basin with jib. of coarse brown sugar, 1 table - spoonful of ground Ginger, and j table-spoonful of ground allspice. Warm slightly 4oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then work in gradually jib. of treacle, and mix it with the flour. Dissolve j tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teacupful of warm milk, mix with it three well-beaten eggs, and pour it into the other ingredients. Work the whole into a smooth dough. Butter a shallow baking-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the tin on to a hot dish, and serve. (6) Finely chop jib. of beef-suet, and mix with it 6oz. of grated stale breadcrumb, 2 scant teaspoonfuls of ground Ginger, 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and a little less than jib. of treacle. When these ingredients are well mixed, turn them into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with or without a sweet sauce. (7) Put jib. of good dripping into a saucepan with lib. of treacle, and heat it over the fire until the dripping is dis- solved. Mix joz. of ground Ginger and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with lib. of flour, then stir in gradually the treacle - and - dripping. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the pudding mixture into it, tie a floured cloth over the top, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, keeping the pudding well under water. When it is cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish, dust caster sugar over, and serve. (8) Wash jib. of rice, and boil it in 1 pint of milk ; when cooked, turn it into a basin. Drain off the syrup from a small jar of preserved Ginger, and finely mince the Ginger; mix it with the rice, and beat the whole well with a wooden spoon for fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, strain them into the rice mixture, and beat for ten minutes longer. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, put a sheet of buttered paper on the top of the mould, and steam for an-liour-and-a-half. Strain the Ginger syrup through muslin into a small saucepan, mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy, and stand it at the side of the fire until hot, but do not let it boil. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour the Ginger syrup round, and serve immediately. (9) Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until creamy together with 4oz. of caster sugar; beat four eggs well, mix them with the beaten butter, add 1 teaspoonful of ground Ginger, sift in slowly 4oz. of flour, and beat the whole for a few minutes longer. Butter the interior of a fluted mould, pour the mixture into it, and bake for forty minutes in a good oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (10) Free jib. of beef-suet from skin, and mince it finely mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale grated crumb ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 682 For details respecting Culinary Processes* Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. bread, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, and sufficient warmed treacle to bind all together; stir until thoroughly mixed. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about three hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. Ginger Sauce.—Bruise one or two pieces of whole Ginger, put them into a saucepan with 3oz. of loaf sugar and 1 pint of water, and boil for several minutes ; then skim and strain the liquor. Mix 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, stir in the above liquor, return it to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until thickened and boiling ; it is then ready for serving. Ginger Snaps.—(1) Put 1 pint of molasses into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, and Jib. of butter, and boil until all are thoroughly mixed. Let it cool, and then add sufficient flour to make it into a soft dough; work it well, cut it into small cakes, and bake in a slow oven until done. (2) Put Jib. each of butter and lard into a basin, and mix in an equal quantity of brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Ginger, 1 pint of molasses, and lqt. of flour. Put 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda into J pint of butter- milk, and mix up to form a soft dough. Boll it out, and cut it with a biscuit-cutter into small cakes, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a slow oven. (3) Put J pint of molasses into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and when it is hot pour it into a basin over a teacupful of sugar; mix it well, and add 1 table-spoonful each of ground Ginger and bicarbonate of soda, 1 teacupful of butter slightly melted, and sufficient flour to make a paste. Work it well, roll out very thin, cut it into shapes, and bake in a very quick oven. (4) Warm Jib. of butter till quite soft, and beat it to a cream with fib. of sugar; beat up the yolks of three eggs with 3 teaspoonfuls of powdered Ginger and 1 saltspoonful of powdered cloves and cinnamon mixed, and beat them into the creamed butter and sugar. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and lightly mix them in, working in lastly lib. of flour. Boll the paste out as thin as possible, cut it into small cakes, and bake them crisp. When quite cold, put them in a tin box with a close-fitting lid till required for use. (5) Mix together lib. of flour, Jib. of molasses, Jib. of brown sugar, Jib. of lard, Joz. of powdered Ginger, and Joz. of bicarbonate of soda or pearlash. Boll out very thin, cut in rounds, and bake. Fig. 839. Ginger Souffle. Ginger Souffle.—(1) Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, and mix in gradually 3oz. of flour, J pint of milk, and Jib. of sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until thick and perfectly smooth, then move it to the side, and mix in the beaten yolks of five eggs and Jib. of preserved Ginger cut into small squares. Whisk the whites of the five eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly with the other ingredients. Ginger—continued. Line a souffle-mould with buttered paper, and pin a band of buttered paper round the outside, allowing it to rise quite 2in. above the rim of the mould, to prevent the souffle coming over. Pour in the mixture, and bake it for a little more than half-an-hour. When cooked, remove the band of paper from around the rim, and serve the souffle at once in the mould on a raised dish. Garnish round the dish with candied fruits (see Fig. 839). (2) Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; then add gradually 1 pint of milk, and continue stirring it until boiling and thickened. Sweeten the mixture to taste with caster sugar, and when nearly cold mix in the beaten yolks of eight eggs, flavouring with a few drops of essence of Ginger. Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff foam, and stir them in lightly with the souffle; turn it into a soufflbmould, which should be large enough to leave a clear space for the souffle to rise, put it into a brisk oven, and bake for twenty minutes, or until well risen and browned on the top. When cooked, pin a napkin round the mould, sift caster sugar on the top, and serve. Ginger Sugar.—Put lib. of caster sugar in a mortar with 2oz. of ground Ginger, mix well, pass it through a sieve, bottle, cork down tightly, and it is ready for use. Ginger Syrup.—(1) Put 2oz. of Ginger and 21b. of sugar into a saucepan with 1J pints of water, place the pan on the fire, and boil to the small thread degree (see Sugar-boiling). Strain the syrup through a sieve, and it will then be ready for use or bottling. (2) If fresh Ginger-root is used, it must be cut into thin slices; but if dried Ginger is used, bruise it. Prepare Jib. of Ginger, put it into a basin, pour over lqt. of boiling water, cover the basin, and let the contents steep for one day in a warm temperature. Afterwards strain the liquor into a sugar-boiler, put in with it 41b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, place the boiler over a moderate fire, and stir the contents until reduced to a syrup (see Syrups). Let the syrup get cold, pour it into bottles, and cork tightly. (3) To the required quantity of stock syrup (see Syrups) add a flavouring of essence of Ginger and a few drops of spirit of capsicum. Bottle, and cork securely. Ginger Tablets.—Clarify 31b. of loaf sugar and boil it to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add 2oz. of powdered Ginger, remove the pan from the fire, and with a smooth round stick stir the sugar, leaning the stick towards the sides of the pan, and taking off with a spoon the sugar that sticks to the edges, and putting it into the liquid sugar. Keep on alternately stirring with the stick and scraping the solid sugar from the edges and putting it into the liquid sugar about four times, or till all is thick and pretty firm, then pour it about Jin. thick into paper cases. With a fork mark the surface while still warm into lozenge shapes, and afterwards deepen some of these lines with the point of a knife; when quite cold, separate them where the lines have been deepened. The tablets will keep for a long time in a warm dry place. Fig. 810. Ginger Wafer with Whipped Cream. Ginger Wafers.—(1) Put Jib. of flour, Jib. of treacle, and 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, mix them well, and drop in 1 teaspoonful of essence of Ginger, 2oz. of butter, and a little salt. Place the pan over the fire, stirring continually, and boil quickly for three minutes. Put a bright copper baking-sheet over a clear fire or charcoal stove fire, and make it moderately hot. Take 1 table-spoonful of theTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 683 For details resecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. mixture at a time, drop it in two or three different places on the sheet, spread it out with a spoon to about 4in. in diameter, and as any bubbles come up flatten them with the tip of the spoon. When they are a little dry and crisp, put a knife under them, lift them off, and roll in shapes like a horn or pointed sugar bag. Put them in a dry warm place, and they are ready for use. They may be made very small, say about 2in. in diameter, and after they are rolled and dry they may be filled with whipped cream, and a strawberry or preserved cherry put on the top (see Fig. 840). (2) Mix joz. of ground Ginger with 8oz. of sifted flour, stir in 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and form the whole into a paste with cream. R ill this out very thin, cut it into shapes with a biscuit-cutter, prick them all over with a fork or docker, put them on a baking-sheet dusted with flour, and bake for a few minutes in a moderate oven. Take them out, and when cold they may be packed in tins for future use. Ginger Water-Ice.—Pound (11). of preserved Ginger in a mortar together with 1 table-spoonful of ground Ginger, and add 1 teacupful of water. Take a few lumps of loaf sugar and rub off the rinds of two lemons with them, and put them into 1 pint of syrup. Into this stir 1 breakfast- cupful of lemon-juice and the same quantity of water ; then put in the pounded Ginger, and when it has been left for an hour or two to soak, pass it all through a cloth into a freezer, and freeze. Ginger Wine.— (1) For every 4galls. of water allow 121b. of moist sugar, 5oz. of bruised Ginger, eight oranges and eight lemons. Put the water, Ginger, sugar, and thinly-pared rinds of the fruit into a large pan, and boil for forty-five minutes, keeping it well skimmed. Turn the liquor into a tub, allow it to cool, then put in a small quantity of yeast on a piece of toast, and leave it to work for three or four days. Afterwards turn the wine into a barrel, putting in with it the juice of the oranges and lemons, and lib. of chopped raisins for every gallon. Bung the cask closely when fermen- tation has ceased, and let it stand, slightly tilted, for six months. Procure the necessary number of pint bottles, put in each table-spoonful of powdered sugar-candy and the same quantity of brandy, fill them with the wine, cork them tightly, and put by until wanted. (2) Put ilb. of bruised Ginger into 5qts. of boiling water, and boil until reduced by 2 pints; strain the liquor, mix with it Gib. of coarse brown sugar and the beaten whites of five eggs, return it to the pan, and boil for about fifteen minutes; next pour in 1 pint of cold water to bring the scum to the top, which must be taken off as it rises. Move the wine from the fire and leave it all night ; on the following day, mix with it 1 pint each of rum and whisky, and squeeze in the juice of ten large lemons and five or six Seville oranges; peel off thinly the rinds of half of the fruit, cut it into small pieces, and mix it with the wine, adding three drops of oil of cinnamon. Pour the wine into a cask that will just hold it, and bung tightly. In six months’ time, the wine may be drawn off and bottled. (3) For this, the best white Ginger should be used. Put 31b. of it, after it has been bruised, into a pan with the thin rinds of three lemons and twelve oranges, pour in a syrup of 201b. of loaf sugar and lOgalls. of water (.see Syrups), and boil well. Now pour the whole into a tub, add a little yeast to start it fermenting, and let it remain for two days. Skim well, pour it off into a cask, add the whites and shells of six eggs beaten up in a little of the wine to fine it, taking care not to add these until the after fermentation has ceased, bung up securely, and bottle in three months. (4) To every gallon of water add 31b. of sugar, lib. of Ginger, the paring of one lemon, and Jib. of stoned raisins; boil all together for half-an-hour or so; then let it stand until it is lukowarm, put it into a cask, with the juice of a lemon, j add 1 table-spoonful of fresh yeast to every gallon of wine, and stir it every day for ten days ; then add ( pint of brandy to every 2galls., (oz. of isinglass to every Ggalls., bung down, and in about eight weeks it will be fit to bottle. (5) Peel two lemons, and slightly bruise loz. of whole Ginger in a mortar, put them in a pan with lqt. of water, i Ginger—continued. and boil for half-an-hour. Half fill a barrel with cold water, put in 31b. of loaf sugar and (lb. of Valencia raisins cut into halves but not stoned, loz. of sugar-candy, the juice of the lemons and the peels, and the water in which they were boiled, then fill up the barrel with cold water. Leave the barrel open for two days, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast. Let the wine work for a fortnight, putting 1 tea- spoonful of sugar into the barrel every day. Afterwards bung it up tightly and leave for six weeks. It may then be drawn off and bottled. Put a lump of sugar soaked in brandy in each bottle before pouring in the wine. Cork the bottles, and stow them away. (G) Put 4galls. of water into a large pan, dissolve 31b. of ■ loaf sugar in it, and add lOoz. of Ginger and the rinds of eight lemons. Boil for an hour, and when it has cooled, put it into a cask with the juice of the eight lemons, a little yeast, and lib. of raisins finely chopped. Let it work, stirring it up from the bottom occasionally. When the fermentation has ceased, add 1( pints of brandy and a little isinglass. Bung up the cask, and in about three weeks’ time the wine will be fit for bottling. (7) Put 61b. of loaf sugar, 2oz. of bruised white Ginger, and the thin rind of three lemons into a saucepan with 9qts. of water, and boil for half-an-hour, skimming frequently. Chop fib. of stoned raisins, put them in a cask, pour over the water when only warm, and add the strained juice of two lemons and lj table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast. The water should be strained free of the lemon-peel before being poured in the cask. Stir daily for several days, add 1 tumblerful of brandy and .joz. of isinglass, bung up tightly, and in six or seven weeks’ time the wine will be fit for bottling. Green Ginger Beer.—Put some green Ginger into a mortar, bruise it, put it into a tankard, pour over 1 pint of iced beer and ( pint of Ginger beer, strain the liquid into glasses, and serve with crushed ice. Green Ginger Juice.-—This is obtained by pounding green Ginger in a mortar with a little water or brandy, and straining or squeezing it through muslin. Very useful in confectionery. Imitation Preserved. Ginger.—(1) Peel off the outer skin or coating of the stalks of lettuces running to seed, cut them in pieces of about 1 (in. or 2in. long, weigh, and put them into cold water, adding 1 teaspoonful of cayenne and a small quantity of salt to each pound of lettuoe-stalks, and let it stand for forty-eight hours ; drain, and wash it in clean oold water. Clarify lib. of loaf sugar for each pound of lettuce- stalks, allow to each pound l(oz. of Ginger, soak it in boiling water, cut it in slices, and boil in the sugar for fifteen minutes. Have the lettuce-stalks well drained, strain the syrup over them while boiling hot, cover, and let it stand for three days; drain the syrup off, put the Ginger into it, and repeat the process; let it stand for two or three days, and again drain the syrup off. Put the Ginger into the syrup as before, add the strained juice of two or three lemons, boil it up, and pour it boiling hot over the lettuce. When cool, pack in jars, and cover closely. (2) Wash and dry two vegetable marrows, selecting them not over ripe but just getting so, cut them into quarters, take off the outer peel rather thickly, and remove all the seeds and inner part. Put the peel, seeds, and inside parts into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, boil for half-an-hour, and strain off the liquor. Weigh the marrows, and cut them up into pieces 2in. long and lin. wide. To each pound of marrow put lib. of sugar into a preserving- pan together with 1 teacupful (to each pound) of the liquor from the peel; boil up, add the grated rind and the strained juice of a lemon to every 21b. of sugar, put in the pieces of marrow and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence or strong tincture of Ginger, and boil until the pieces of marrow become nearly transparent; then pour the preserve into jars, and cover them over in the usual manner. (3) This is made with cucumbers or pumpkins. Remove the peel and cut them up into shapes like green Ginger, and throw them into syrup made as follows : Put lib. of sugar and £ pint of water into a sugar-boiler, add 1 table-spoonful of essence of ground Jamaica Ginger and the juice of a lemon, and boil up three times. Put it into jars, and it is ready for use.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 684 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger—continued. (4) Take some salsify and cut it up into knotted shapes and different lengths to look like green Ginger; peel round the stalk without scraping it, and parboil in a little water and lemon-juice. Take it out, drain, and put it into a sugar- boiler with a little syrup at 32deg. (see Sugar-boiling) ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of Ginger and the juice of a lemon, place the boiler on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Boil it up twice more, and turn it out into jars for use. (5) Skin some rhubarb, cut it up into convenient lengths, put it in layers in an earthen dish with sugar between, allowing lib. of sugar to every pound of rhubarb, and leave for forty-eight hours. Afterwards strain the juice from the rhubarb into a preserving-pan, and boil it quickly until reduced to a thick syrup ; put in the rhubarb, move the pan to the side of the fire, and let the rhubarb simmer gently until soft, shaking the pan occasionally, but do not stir the contents. Move the rhubarb off the fire, flavour it strongly with essence of Ginger, and leave it until cooled. Put it into jars, cover and tie down, and keep in a dry cupboard. (6) Large old vegetable marrows may be used. Peel them, and if very large cut first across in three and then into strips. Pack them into a large vessel, and cover with boiling syrup made of brown sugar and water. Let the marrow steep for three days, then drain it, put it into a preserving- pan with lib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound of fruit, loz. of ground Ginger tied in a bag, the rind and juice of one lemon, and about J teaspoonful of cayenne for every 31b. of the preserve. Boil the whole over a slow fire until the marrow looks clear, then pour in 1 wineglassful of whisky for every 21b. of marrow, and boil for two or three minutes longer. Turn the preserve into jars, and when cold cover them. Preserved Ginger.— (1) Sort out some green roots of the plant just as it has been dug up; separate the small from the large roots, cutting the latter into pieces of a convenient size, clean, and drop them into cold water. Take them out, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and boil; let them cool, boil again, and continue in this way three times in all, when they should be quite tender. Take them up, and dip them into cold water with vinegar in it. Remove the peel, put them again into cold water, and let them remain for four or five hours ; take them out, dry on a sieve, put them in an earthen pan, and pour over some cold syrup of the small thread degree (see Sugar-boiling). Let it remain for three days, drain off the syrup, and put in more boiled to the large thread degree when cold. Let it remain three days longer, and repeat this twice more, taking syrup of another degree each time, and pouring it over while hot. Now put the Ginger in the pan and boil up once more, by which time it should be quite clear and well saturated with the sugar. (2) With a sharp knife peel some green Ginger, and as it is peeled throw it into a basin of cold water; when the required quantity is done, boil it until tender, changing the water three times, each time putting the Ginger into cold water to take out the spirit. Prepare a syrup, using 41b. of sugar for every 3jlb. of Ginger. Drain and put the Ginger into an earthen jar, pour the syrup, when cold, over it, and leave for two days; afterwards drain the syrup from the Ginger and boil it up again, pour it hot over the Ginger, and at the end of three days boil again. Proceed like this until the sugar enters the Ginger, removing the scum from the syrup as it rises. If the syrup is poured hot over the Ginger in the first place, the Ginger would shrink. Pack the preserve in jars, cover tightly, and keep in a dry cupboard. Tincture of Ginger.—Put into a jar lflb. of unbleached, powdered and sifted Jamaica Ginger, pour over lqt. of spirits of wine 20deg. under proof, and let it macerate for three days, shaking the jar slightly now and then. Turn the whole into a deep percolator or filter, let it drain, and pour over another quart of the spirits; when the Ginger is drained, press it close together, pour over 1 pint of water, and continue to filter until igall. in all has run through. Bottle, and in a few days’ time it will be ready for use and quite bright. GINGERBREAD (Fr. Pain d’Epice; Ger. Pfeffer- kuchen; Ital. Pane di Gengiovo; Sp. Pan de Gengibre).— This household favourite requires but little explanation, it being one of the charms of infantile life, and too Gingerbread—continued. often used, alas, to beguile the young stomach into taking nauseous medicines, such as magnesia or Epsom salts. In all civilised countries Gingerbread has been regarded as of medicinal value, either as a carminative due to the spices it contains, or as a stomachic stimulant. It is to be feared that a persistent introduction of large quantities of magnesia, and a reduction of the quantity of spices, has tended to reduce the demand for what should be a most valuable remedy for constipation. The following receipts may pei'haps rouse up some fresh enthusiasm in favour of Gingerbread. Wholesale makers of Gingerbread mark the tops of the bread with a stamp in the pattern of herring-bones. American Gingerbread (Southern). — (1) Put 1 pint of molasses into a copper basin, warm it, and melt ^lb. of butter in it; then mix in ^lb. of moist sugar and three well-beaten eggs, add ground ginger to taste, 1 pint of milk, and 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder mixed up with lib. of flour. The Fig. 841. American Gingerbread. milk and flour should be added alternately and a little at a time. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into small oval buttered pans, and bake in a moderately quick oven. Turn them out when done, and serve either hot or cold. See Pig. 841. (2) Whisk together with an egg-whisk, till light and creamy, jib. of slightly-warmed butter, ilb. of molasses, also slightly warmed, and jib. of sugar. Add as many beaten eggs as will weigh ilb., 1 saltspoonful of powdered mace and powdered cloves mixed, 1 saltspoonful of cinnamon, 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, and 1 gill of loppered milk or butter-milk. When the eggs and spice are well mixed in, stir in jib. of flour, and then 1 heaped saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water. Beat hard for a minute or two, mix in jib. of raisins, stoned and cut in halves, and bake. (3) Beat well together 2oz. of warmed butter, jib. of sugar, |lb. of molasses, 1 saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger; when these are beaten together light and creamy, mix with them quickly 1 gill of sour cream and then ^lb. of flour, adding lastly 1 heaped salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water. Beat hard for a couple of minutes after the soda is added, and then bake in small tins in a quick oven, but be careful that it does not burn. (4) Slightly warm ^ breakfast-cupful each of butter and molasses, beat them together to a cream with j breakfast- cupful of sugar, i table-spoonful of powdered ginger, and I teaspoonful of cinnamon. When thoroughly beaten, add the yolks of as many eggs as will weigh jib., beat the whites separately to a stiff froth, and reserve them. With the beaten yolks add j breakfast-cupful of sour milk, then mix in in small quantities and alternately jib. of flour and the whites of the eggs; but if the batter is not stiff enough, add a little more flour; then stir in j dessert-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water. Mix in lastly J breakfast- cupful of raisins, stoned, cut in quarters, and well floured, and bake in one piece. (5) Richmond.—Beat together lib. each of butter, sugar, and molasses, and 1 dessert-spoonful of mixed powdered ginger and mace. When quite light and creamy, add the beaten yolks of two eggs and I pint of fresh milk with 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it; mix in quickly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and ilb. of flour. Bake at once in small tins. Canadian Gingerbread.—Beat 1 teacupful of butter together with 2 teacupfuls of moist sugar till creamy, and mix with it 1 teacupful of molasses, 1 table-spoonful of cinnamon,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 685 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. and 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger; next stir three well- beaten eggs into 1 teacupful of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved ; sift in gradually 2f breakfast-cupfuls of flour, and mix with the milk and eggs ; when this is quite smooth, work in lib. of well-washed currants. Spread the preparation on two buttered baking- sheets, and bake in a hot oven for thirty-five minutes. Take them off the sheets, and set aside to cool before using. Excelsior Gingerbread.—Warm lib. of butter, and beat it to a cream with lib. of caster sugar; mix with 21b. of flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of ground ginger and one grated nutmeg ; then work in the butter and sugar, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and 1 wineglassful each of wine and brandy. When these are thoroughly incorporated, spread the mixture in layers about fin. thick on buttered baking-sheets with edges, and bake in a slack oven. When cooked, cut into squares, but let it get cold before putting it away. It will keep a long time if stored in a dry place. Fig. 842. Fairy Gingerbread. Fairy Gingerbread.—Slightly warm 1 breakfast-cupful of butter and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of moist sugar, and rub them together in a basin to a cream. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Make it into a paste like very thick cream. Spread a thin coating of butter on a baking-pan, let it get quite cold and set, spread the paste on it no thicker than a card, barely covering the pan from sight, and bake in a slack oven. When done, cut the sheets immediately into the shape and size of ordinary cards, some of which may be curled (see Fig. 842) and others kept flat. This is known in America as euchre Gingerbread, and the flat ones are placed on the table Fig. 843. Euchre Gingerbread. in packs (see Fig. 843), to be eaten as the fancy takes the player during the game of euchre. French Gingerbread.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger and f table-spoonful each of ground aniseed and ground cloves with lflb. of flour; then mix in lib. of treacle, and work it till quite smooth. Cover the paste over with a cloth, and leave it till the following day; then roll it out, and with a round tin cutter about 2in. in diameter stamp the paste out into rounds. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the Gingerbreads on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake for half-an-heur in a moderate oven. The cakes should be kept in biscuit-tins in a dry place. Gingerbread with Cocoa-nut.—Put 9oz. each of wheat- and rice-flour into a basin, and mix in 8oz. of moist sugar, loz. of ground ginger, the grated rind of two lemons, and lfoz. of candied citron cut up small. Put fib. of butter into a sauce- pan with lib. of treacle, make them both hot, pour them into the flour mixture, and stir well. Let it all cool, add 7oz. of cocoa-nut, grated and pounded in a mortar, beat well for a few minutes, put the mixture in small lumps on a buttered baking-sheet, place them in a slack oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. Take them out when done, and use either hot or cold. Gingerbread Fingers.—Put 21b. of flour in a basin with fib. of butter, and rub it smoothly in with the hands ; mix in foz. of caraway-seeds, loz. of finely-sifted ginger, and fib. of treacle. Work the paste well, let it rise in a warm tem- Gingerbread—continued. perature, then roll it out, and cut it into pieces about the size of a finger (see Fig. 844). Lay them on a baking-sheet, leaving a short space between, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked leave the cakes until cold; then pack them away in biscuit-tins, and keep them in a dry place until wanted for use. Fig. 844. Gingerbread Fingers. Gingerbread with Molasses.—(1) Mix 1 teacupful of liquefied butter with 1 pint of hot molasses; stir in gradually 2 break- fast-cupfuls of flour, and, when smooth, two well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger. Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda in f pint of milk ; mix with the other ingredients the peel of a lemon cut in small dice, and make into a dough with the milk ; if not stiff, add more flour. Put this into a deep buttered baking-dish, and bake for about half-an-hour. (2) Eub 1 teacnpful of butter in lqt. of flour; stir in 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 breakfast-cupful of water in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been mixed, and 1 pint of molasses; if not stiff enough, add more flour. Eoll it out, mark the top into cakes with a knife, brush over with thick syrup, and bake on a buttered baking-sheet in a moderate oven. (3) Eub lib. of fresh butter into 2flb. of sifted flour in which 1 teacupful of ground ginger has been mixed ; then stir into it 1 pint of milk, lib. of molasses, and 1 teaspoonful of pearlash dissolved in a little vinegar. Add them in small quantities and alternately. Stir all together for some time till quite light, then put the dough in small portions on a floured paste-board; flour the hands well, with them roll the pieces of dough into long rolls, lay them side by side, touching each other, on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Be careful not to scorch in baking. Gingerbread Nuts.—(1) Eub fib. of butter in lflb. of flour until quite smooth; mix in fib. of moist sugar, loz. of ground ginger, and lib. of treacle. Warm another fib. of butter, and beat it well with fib. more sugar ; when frothy, add it to the other ingredients, and mix. Eoll out the paste to about fin. in thickness, and cut it out with a tin cutter lain, in diameter. Lay the cakes on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave the cakes until cold; then put them into biscuit-tins, and keep in a dry place. (2) Put 2 teaspoonfuls of ground allspice, 1 teaspoonful of ground cloves, foz. of ground cinnamon, and 2oz. of ground ginger into 2 fib. of sifted flour, and mix them thoroughly. Then cut up and rub in lib. of fresh butter, and with 21b. of molasses mix this to a dough, working it well together with a knife. Add 1 saltspoonful of pearlash dissolved in vinegar, put the dough, a large handful at a time, on a well-floured paste-board, and knead it into separate cakes; then put them all together and work it well for a long time in one large lump; when it is very well kneaded cut it into halves and roll the two pieces evenly out in two sheets about fin. thick. Cut the paste into cakes with a very small cutter, lay them on buttered baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven. Be particularly careful that they do not scorch. Gingerbread being very liable to burn. (3) Eub 2oz. of butter into fib. of flour, and when smooth mix in 3oz. of moist sugar, f table-spoonful of ground ginger, i teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, a few drops of essence of lemon, loz. of finely-shred candied peel, and fib. of treacle. Work the whole to a stiff dough, cut it into pieces about the size of walnuts, then with floured hands mould them into small round cakes. Butter a baking-tin, lay the cakes on it leaving a good space between, brush them over with a paste- brush dipped in milk, and bake them in a rather slow oven686 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ginger oread—continued. for half-an-hour. When cold, put the cakes into biscuit-tin?, and keep them in a dry place. (4) Rub 3oz. of butter or beef-dripping into Mb. of flour : mix in 2oz. of moist sugar, %oz. of ground ginger, and i salt- spoonful of mixed cloves and mace well pounded. When these are all well stirred together, mix them into a stiffish paste with 6oz. or more of treacle. Roll out the paste, cut it into rounds, lay them on a tin sprinkled with flour, and bake in a slow oven. (5) Rub Mb. of butter into 1 Mb. of flour ; when smooth put in Mb. of moist sugar, 2oz. of finely-chopped mixed candied peel, 2 table-spioonfuls of powdered allspice, 1 table-spoonful of powdered ginger, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and ioz. of powdered caraway-seeds (the seeds should be quite fresh, for if they are at all musty they will spoil the Ginger- bread). When the ingredients are well mixed, stir in 1Mb. of treacle. Shape the dough into nuts, put them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake for about twenty minutes. When they are cooked, take them off the tin, and let them cool before putting away. These nuts should be kept in biscuit- tins in a dry place, for if they get at all damp, they will become sodden. (6) Rub lib. of softened butter in 31b. of flour till the butter is entirely absorbed; then mix in lib. of caster sugar, 2oz. of ground ginger, and one grated nutmeg. Put lib. of treacle and 1 teacupful of cream in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till warm ; mix 1 table-spoonful of freshly-powdered saleratus (carbonate of ammonia) with the flour, and work all together into a stiff dough ; roll this out quite thin, cut it into rounds with a 3in. biscuit-cutter, put them on buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven. Take them out of the tins, and let them cool before putting them away. (7) Wash fib. of butter in a little rose-water, put it in a saucepan with lib. of treacle, and place it over the fire until hot and dissolved ; then move it off and let it get cool. Put lib. of dried flour into a basin with fib. of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped candied orange- and lemon-peel, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and thinly-cut sweet almonds, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of powdered mace, and one grated nutmeg. Beat two eggs well, stir them in with the butter- and-treacle, then mix all together. Work the mixture until thoroughly incorporated, then divide it into small equal-sized quantities, mould into round cakes, lay them a little apart from each other on floured baking-tins, and bake in a brisk oven. Fig. 845. Gingerbread Squares. Gingerbread flavoured with Orange.—To lib. 2oz. of flour add 14oz. of treacle, (Joz. of moist sugar, 3oz. of chopped candied orange-peel, foz. of ground allspice, and foz. of ground ginger. Molt 6oz. of butter to oil, and mix it with the other ingredients. When all are thoroughly stirred and well mixed, let the dough stand for twelve hours. Then roll it out about fin. thick, using as little flour as possible on the board, cut it into pieces 2in. wide and 3in. long, mark them with the back of a knife into diagonal checks, and lay them on a baking-sheet about Mn- apart. Brush them over with a brush dipped in the yolk of an egg- beaten up with rather less than 1 gill of milk, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. When taken from the oven, brush them over lightly with more of the beaten egg-and-milk, and should the pieces of Gingerbread have run together during the baking, divide them with a knife. Gingerbread—continued. Gingerbread Squares.—(1) Mix with 1Mb. of finely-sifted flour, lfoz. of freshly-ground ginger, i table-spoonful of ground caraway-seeds, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Put 6oz. of butter in a stewpan, and place it over the fire ; when dissolved, pour in 1Mb. of treacle, and stir the whole until warm. Break six eggs in a basin, pour the treacle over them, and beat the whole well. Stir this mixture in with the dry ingredients, and work them with a wooden spoon until thoroughly incorporated. Butter a shallow baking- dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. When cooked, take the cake out of the tin, lay it on a sieve until cold, then cut it into squares (see Fig. 845), and keep them dry in tins. (2) Sift lOoz. of flour into a basin, and mix with it 2 piled table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 2oz. of chopped citron, and a small piece of lemon-peel finely chopped. Mix to a firm paste with fib. of treacle and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Roll the paste out to about |m. in thickness, cut it into squares, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve cold. Honeycomb Gingerbread.—Rub fib. of butter in Mb. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in Mb- of the coarsest brown sugar, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, f table-spoonful of allspice, the grated peel of half a lemon and the juice of a whole one; next mix in gradually Mb. of treacle. Butter Fig. 846. Honeycomb Gingerbread. some baking-tins, spread the paste thinly over them, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, take the Gingerbread out of the oven and cut it into pieces about 4in. square, rolling each piece round the finger as it is lifted from the tin. See Fig. 846. The Gingerbread should be kept in tins in a dry place. Lafayette Gingerbread.—Beat Mb. of fresh butter and Mb. of moist sugar to a cream; then add lib. of treacle, two large sticks of cinnamon ground to powder, 36grs. of allspice, thirty-six cloves, both allspice and cloves ground to powder, and 4 table-spoonfuls of ground ginger, stirring all very well together. Then add five beaten eggs and 1Mb. of flour in small quantities and alternately. Continue to stir and mix for some time after all the eggs and flour are in, and then add and stir well in the strained juice and grated peel of two lemons. Or instead of the lemon-juice and peel, J tea- spoonful of pearlash dissolved in vinegar may be added, but in this case caution must be exercised, and the dough tasted as the dissolved pearlash is stirred in, as too much of it would spoil the flavour. If dissolved pearlash be used, some raisins stoned and cut in halves or quarters may be added. When the dough is ready, put it on a buttered baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour or more if very thick. Be careful that it does not burn. Nuremberg Gingerbread.—Blanch and split lengthwise into halves Mb. of sweet almonds, and chop 2oz. of mixed candied peel. Beat well four eggs, then mix with them Mb. of sugar, ^oz. each of powdered cinnamon and white Ginger, ^oz. of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; sift in gradually Jib. of flour, and stir it with sufficient warm milk, in which 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, to make a smooth stiff batter. Mix the almonds and shredded peel with the dough, and beat it well. Cut some long strips of wafer-paper, lay them on baking-tins, cover each with a thin layer of the mixture, and bake them in a687 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <1c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. slow oven until lightly browned. Keep the Gingerbread crisp in tin canisters. Parliamentary Gingerbread.—Crush jib. of whole ginger, put it in a saucepan with nearly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then move it off the fire, and let it get cold. Put lib. of flour in a basin, and mix with it 8oz. of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and j table-spoonful of ground caraway- seeds. Put jib. of lard into a stewpan, melt it over the fire, add 1 table-spoonful of treacle, and strain in the ginger-water; mix well, and pour the liquor over the other ingredients. Stir the whole until thoroughly incorporated. Dredge flour over a paste-board, lay the paste on it, and roll it out to jin. in thickness. Cut it into rounds or fancy shapes with a tin cutter, lay them on a floured baking-sheet with space between, brush them lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in treacle thinned in a little water, and bake for fifteen minutes. When the cakes are cooked, put them on a sieve until dry, and keep them in a dry place. Queen’s Gingerbread.—Mix lib. of moist sugar with 31b. of flour; cut Jib. of candied orange-peel into thin slices, blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, and mix them with the flour and sugar; grate in the rinds of two lemons, add loz. of cinnamon, and joz. each of powdered cloves, Ginger, mace, and cardamom-seeds. Fig. 847. Queen’s Gingerbread. Put 21b. of honey in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water; when hot, mix it with the other ingredients. Let it stand till the next day, shape it into cakes (see Pig. 847), and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked, ice them over roughly with sugar icing. These are very delicious. Rich. Gingerbread.—Put 1111). of butter in a lined stewpan with 1 jib. of golden syrup and 3 teacupfuls of milk, and stir them over the fire until hot and the butter dissolved. Put ljlb. of finely-sifted flour in a basin, and mix well with it 3 table-spoonfuls each of brown sugar and ground ginger, and 3oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel. Stir the treacle mixture gradually in with the dry ingredients, and when quite smooth stir in four well-beaten eggs and 2 scant teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Warm a shallow baking-tin, grease it well with butter, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, cut it into squares. Soft Gingerbread.—(1) Sift lib. of flour and rub 4oz. of butter into it; when quite smooth, mix in 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, two well-beaten eggs, and Jib. of golden syrup. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon, making it into a soft paste. Butter a square shallow tin, turn the paste into it, and bake in a moderate oven, being very careful not to let the Gingerbread burn. When cooked, turn it out of the tin and cut it into shapes. . (2) Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of saleratus (ammonia) in 1 pint of butter-milk. Bub 2oz. of softened butter in Jib. of flour; stir in 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, three beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of thick cream; when quite smooth, pour in the milk. Butter a shallow baking-tin, put in the preparation, and bake in a slack oven. When cooked, turn it out of the tin and leave till cold. Spiced Gingerbread.—Prepare a dough with lib. of butter melted in lqt. of warm molasses, Jib. of brown sugar, six eggs, jib. of ground ginger, jib. of ground allspice, 2oz. of ground cloves, 6jib. of sifted flour, and 4 table-spoonfuls of saleratus. Boll it out, form into cakes, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. If preferred, it may be baked in loaves in buttered pans. It should be eaten cold. Sponge Gingerbread.— (1) Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, and mix with it 1 pint of molasses and 1 table-spoonful Gingerbread—continued. of caster sugar. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in j pint of milk, and mix it with the molasses. Mix 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger with lqt. of flour, stir in gradually the molasses, &c., add more flour if the paste is not stiff enough to roll out easily, roll it out about lin. thick, put it on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Put jib. of butter in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk made warm enough to melt the butter; then add 3 piled table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of molasses; when well mixed, beat in three eggs, 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder, and 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger; beat again, and then sift in lib. of flour. Butter a pan, spread the mix- ture lin. thick in it, and bake for about twenty minutes. Sweet Gingerbread.—(1) Beat jib. of butler and Jib. of sugar to a cream ; then mix in two eggs beaten very light with 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, 1 saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Mix in the strained juice of a lemon and 1 gill of sour cream, then jib. of flour, and lastly 1 salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water. Bake it in a loaf. If wrapped in a thick cloth it will keep several days. (2) Beat 6oz. of warmed butter with lib. of caster sugar, and stir in four well-beaten eggs; mix with 1 Jib. of flour 3 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, and sift it in gradually; dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 wineglassful of milk, and mix it with the rest. Turn it into a deep buttered baking-dish, and bake. Tbin Gingerbread (German).—Put J pint of the best honey into a lined stewpan with 6oz. of sugar, and place it over the fire until boiling. Cut 2oz. of sweet almonds into thin shreds but without peeling them, put them in with the honey, and boil them gently for two or three minutes; then turn the mixture into a basin and put in jib. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel, the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon, joz. of powdered cinnamon, j drachm of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Leave the mixture until cool, then add to it 1 wineglassful of rum, as much bicarbonate of soda as will lie on a sixpence, dissolved in a small quantity of water, and jib. of finely-sifted flour. Work the dough lightly to mix it, then put it on a paste-board that has been dredged over with flour, and roll it out as thinly as possible. Cut it into strips 3in. or 4in. long, lay them closely together on floured baking-sheets, and leave them all night in a cool place. Next morning, lay a sheet of white paper over them, and bake in a moderate oven. Do not allow the Ginger- bread to brown. When cooked, cut through with a knife where the cakes have stuck together, and leave them on the tins until cold. Boil some moist sugar in a small quantity of water until reduced to a thick syrup that will hang in threads from the spoon. Coat each of the cakes on one side with the syrup, and leave them until dry. Keep the cakes in biscuit-tins in a dry place. Transparent Gingerbread.—Bub 5oz. of butter into jib. of flour, and mix in jib. of sugar, a little grated orange-peel, ground ginger and cinnamon, and jib. of treacle. Put this Fig. 848. Transparent Gingerbread. mixture into a biscuit-forcer, and squeeze it out on to a buttered baking-sheet in lumps the size of walnuts (see Fig. 848) a few inches apart; place the sheet in a moderate oven, and bake until done. Wafer Gingerbread.—Pour 7 fluid ounces of treacle into a basin, and with a wooden spoon mix in 2oz. each of warmed butter and moist sugar, half that quantity of ground ginger, andFor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. lastly, 8oz. of sifted flour. Stir well until quite smooth, turn it out on to a slightly-greased baking-sheet, rolling it out very thin, put it into a slow oven, and bake. Take it out, cut it into squares while still hot, and roll them into shapes. Let them get cold. Wellington Gingerbread.—Sift lib. of flour into a basin, and mix in an equal quantity of moist sugar, half the quantity of warmed butter, and loss, each of ground ginger and cinnamon. Stir well with a spoon, then add 4oz. of chopped mixed candied peel, 1J wineglassfuls of brandy, and 2 fluid ounces of treacle. Form the whole into a stiff paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into shapes with a small round biscuit-cutter. Put them on a baking-sheet slightly dusted with flour, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out, and use when cold. White Gingerbread.—(1) Put Jib. of honey in a stewpan with Jib. of caster sugar, and stir it over a slow fire until dissolved ; then take it off and leave it until slightly cooled. Stir slowly into the honey lib. of finely-sifted flour, 2oz. each of powdered ginger, powdered almonds, and finely- [ shred candied peel, J teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little | milk. Stir the mixture until quite smooth. Cut some strips of wafer-paper about 4in. long and 2in. broad, cover each | with a thin layer of the mixture, and lay them on baking- tins. Bake the Gingerbreads in a moderate oven, keeping them a pale colour. When cooked, leave the Gingerbreads until j cold; then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in [ thin icing, and dry them in a cool oven. (2) Bub 2oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, and mix in ljlb. of crushed loaf sugar, Joz. of volatile salt, Joz. of ground j ginger, -Joz. each of ground mace, nutmeg and cinnamon, and j Joz. of caraway-seeds. Make a bay in the centre, pour in ! 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and work the whole into a dough. Let it stand for several hours, until next day if possible, form it into cakes, and bake in a moderate oven on tins. Take them out when done, and use cold. (3) Put lib. of flour in a basin and mix with it lib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred candied peel, and 1 table- spoonful of ground ginger. Beat one egg well with J tea- spoonful of essence of lemon and Joz. of volatile salt. Warm Jib. of butter, beat it until creamy, then mix it in J with the flour, and add the beaten egg. Work all the ingre- dients together until thoroughly blended. Butter a baking- sheet, and with a table-spoon drop the mixture on to it in small quantities. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven. When cooked, let them get cold before serving or packing them away in tins. The following receipts are entitled Gingerbread, although no ginger is used in their composition. They answer more correctly to the French pain d’epice, or spiced loaf. Imitation Gingerbread. — (1) Cut into thin slices 4oz. of almonds, but they should not be skinned; also cut into thin shreds Jib. of mixed candied peel and the peel of one lemon. Put 1 pint of honey into a saucepan with fib. of sugar, and place it over the fire ; when boiling, put in the almonds, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for five minutes. Mix the shredded peels with the honey, also | half a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a small quantity of powdered cloves. When the honey mix- ture has cooled, mix in with it ljlb. of sifted flour in which 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been mixed, stir it thoroughly with a wooden spoon until quite smooth, then mix in 1 wineglassful of rum. Dredge flour on to a paste- board, roll the dough out on it as thinly as possible while it is still warm, and cut it into strips between 4in. and 5in. long and 2in. and 3in. broad. Butter baking-sheets, lay the strips on them, and leave all night in a cool place. On ( the following day bake the strips in a brisk oven, but without allowing them to get too brown. When cooked, take the strips of Gingerbread off the baking-sheets and leave them to get cold. Boil moist sugar to the thread degree (see Sugar- boiling), and glaze the strips of Gingerbread on one side only with it. Dry them in a cool oven. (2) Sift lib. of flour into a basin and mix in Joz. of carbo- nate of magnesia; add 6oz. of melted butter, lib. of treacle, j Joz. of tartaric acid dissolved in water, and any desired | spices. Knead well to form a dough and let it stand for I about an hour. Make it into cakes, bake in a moderate oven, take them out when done, and use hot or cold as desired. After the dough has been made, it should not be allowed to stand more than three hours at the most before being baked. (3) Put 1J pints of honey in a stewpan over the fire, and dissolve in it Jib. of fine moist sugar. When the honey has slightly cooled, stir in gradually 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, a small quantity of powdered cloves, 4oz. of finely- shred mixed candied peel, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, cut them into thin fillets, and mix them in the dough. Dredge flour on a paste- board, put the dough on it, and roll it out to about Jin. thick. Cut the dough into fancy shapes with small tin cutters, lay them on floured baking-tins, and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, the cakes should not be too much coloured. Keep them crisp in tin canisters. (4) French.—Make a bay in lib. of finely-sifted Vienna flour on the table. Peel and chop finely 5oz. of almonds, put them in the bay, with 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, the same quantity of ground cloves, 4oz. of powdered sugar, and 7oz. of honey. Knead the ingredients well for five minutes, then mix into the flour; work the preparation with the hands for thirty minutes without ceasing, and finish by forming it into a ball. Lay this on a dish, cover it with a napkin, and place it in a temperature of about 60deg. for six hours. Lay the paste on a floured table, and roll it out 18in. long by 12in. wide. Well butter a baking-sheet, lay the paste on, and put it in a very slow oven to bake for forty-five minutes. Eemove, lay the baking-sheet on the table, cut the cake immediately into small lozenge-shaped pieces, ljin. long by lin. wide, or any other shape desired ; let them cool thoroughly for about twenty minutes, place them in a glass bowl, and serve. The cakes can be glazed with a thin syrup, and served in the same way. (5) German.—Put 21b. of treacle, or treacle and honey, in a saucepan with Jib. of moist sugar, and put it over the fire until it commences to boil, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Take the treacle off the fire and stir in Jib. of butter; when the butter has dissolved, mix in slowly 21b. of flour, J table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a small quantity of powdered cloves. Blanch and cut into thin fillets 6oz. of almonds, thinly shred the peel of a lemon and 4oz. of mixed candied peel, blend all the ingredients with the dough, and at the last mix in 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of water. Let the dough stand in a cool place for twelve hours, then knead well, put it on a floured paste-board, and roll it out to about Jin. thick. Dredge a baking-sheet with flour, put the dough on it, and bake slowly, if possible in an oven in which bread has just been baked. When cooked, brush the Gingerbread over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and cut it into squares. (6) Blanch and cut into thin fillets Jib. of sweet almonds ; then mix them with lib. of sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred candied peel, the grated peel of one lemon, half a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Put 1 pint of honey into a small lined saucepan, place it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then pour it in with the other ingredients. Work in slowly ljlb. of flour, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and knead the whole thoroughly. Boll the dough out as thinly as possible, and with a small round tin cutter cut it into cakes. Butter some baking-sheets, lay the cakes on them, leaving a short space between, and bake them in a slow oven until lightly browned. Prepare a glazing with beaten whites of eggs and caster sugar, and when the cakes are cooked brush them over with it. Leave them on the tins until cool, then keep dry in canisters. Imitation Gingerbread Cake.—Slightly warm fib. of fresh butter, and beat it well with Jib. of moist sugar; then mix in while still beating 2qts. of treacle, 4 table-spoonfuls of caraway-seeds, Jib. of finely-shred candied orange- and lemon- peel, four well-beaten eggs, J table-spoonful of pearlash, and sufficient flour to form a stiff batter. When well worked, cover the mixture with a cloth, and leave it until the follow- ing day. When ready for baking, stir the mixture up again, turn it into a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Imitation Gingerbread Nuts.— Put Jib. of treacle in a saucepan with Jib. of butter, and place it over the fire until 688 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Gingerbread—continued.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 689 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc,, referred to, see under their special heads. Gingerbread—continued. hot. Put lib. of flour in a basin with 4oz. of sugar, tea- spoonful each of pounded cloves and pounded cardamom- seeds, and one beaten egg, and mix them all with the flour, also 2 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of water ; pour in the hot butter and treacle, and knead the mixture well. Cover the basin containing the dough with a cloth, and stand it in a cool place for four or five hours. Butter some baking-sheets, take the mixture up in small quantities, lay it on the buttered tins, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. When cooked, the cakes should be dry and crisp, but not too darkly coloured. Keep them in biscuit-tins. GIRASOLE ARTICHOKES. — See Artichokes (Jerusalem). GIZZARDS (Fr. Gesievs ; Ger. Magen).—These are the second or true muscular stomachs of poultry, in which the food is crushed and ground after being softened in the crop. It usually contains a number of stones and other hard matters, which whilst assisting in grinding the food, are scarcely capable of being digested. The Gizzard of a bird is not considered of any particular value in cookery; it is hard and tough, and is usually employed for preparing sauce or gravy. In Italy the lining membranes of some Gizzards are used for making curds and whey. See Gallino. GLACE(E).—Fr. for iced, or glazed. GLAIR.—White of egg used for glazing pastry. GLASS.—Since the introduction of this wonderful material into this coimtry it lias steadily gained ground for the manufacture of all sorts of elegant and useful ware, especially for the table. Several of its adaptations are referred to under special headings, such as Bottles, Decanters, Tumblers, Wine and Liqueur Glasses, and other vessels in which art has combined utility with ornamentation. These are manufactured of different kinds of glass known by specific names, such as Flint, Bohemian, Crystal, &c., which admit of exquisite work- manship and colouring. Toughened Glass, manufactured by dipping the hot Glass in cold oil, has not at present gained much favour. GLAZE, and GLAZING.—Whatever may be the appropriate terms for Glaze in other languages, it is certain that the English or French word Glaze or Glace are alone used in modern kitchens, and these words are used with three distinct meanings. To Glaze a sauce, or boil it down to a Glaze, is really to roast it, for the moisture is so much reduced that the residue “ catches the pan ” and is browned. To Glaze meat is to varnish it with Glaze, and to Glaze cakes or pastry is to varnish them in a similar manner with sugar or white of egg. Meat Glaze is very strong gravy or meat stock boiled quickly down until it is a brown liquid jelly or bright Fig. 849. Glazing-pan. brown paste. Of course, all fat and sediment must have been removed from the stock. It should be kept in a well-covered metal vessel, called a Glazing-pan (see Fig. 8491, ready to warm up at a moment’s notice; or it may be poured into a pot (see Fig. 850) for standing in a bain-marie, and kept hot, ready for use at any time. Glaze, and Glazing—continued. The Glaze is usually applied warm over cold meats, laid on with a soft brush, and the operation has generally to be repeated if a high Glaze is required. A sugar Glaze for cakes is described under Icing ; but that which is commonly used for sweet pastry is a thin syrup brushed over before the baking is finished; for savoury pastry, white of egg or simple beaten egg brushed all over is used. Fig. 850. Glazf.-pot. Varieties of Glazes are prepared as follow, the receipts being contributed by famous cooks : Glace de Viande (Meat Glaze).—(1) Peel and slice an onion, put it in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water and a small bunch of parsley, and boil for half-an-hour; then strain it. Return the liquor to the saucepan, with 2 tea- spoonfuls of extract of beef and Joz. of gelatine, and boil it until the gelatine is dissolved; then move it from the fire and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Turn the Glaze into a basin, and let it set firm. (2) Put lqt. of clear veal and lqt. of clear beef stock in a stewpan, and boil it very fast till reduced to a thick cream. Then pour it into a bladder, and tie up tightly. In this way it may be kept a considerable time. (3) When properly made this Glaze will keep in perfect con- dition for any length of time. It is advised that 4 pint be made at a time in the following manner: Place in a large sauce- pan lOqts. of broth, or 9qts. of consomme, and reduce it on a moderate fire for fully four hours, by which time it should be reduced to 4 pint. Transfer it to a stone crock, put a cover over it—many cooks do not, but they ought to—and keep it in a cool place for general use. (4) Bind up 31b. each of knuckle of veal and veal fillets with 31b. of gravy beef, all the bones having been removed from the veal; put these in a stockpot with llgalls. of water and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then put in Jib. each of carrots, leeks, and onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; move the pot to the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer till the meat is done to rags ; take it out, strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, pour it into a Glazing-pan, and reduce to one-third ; then pour it into a basin, and leave till the next day. When the Glaze is set, trim it at the top, removing all the scum that may have risen, turn it upside down out of the basin, cut off the sediment that has settled at the bottom, put th^glaze into a stewpan, and stir it over a sharp fire till reduced to the consistency of Spanish sauce. Pour it into jars, and cover them with paper, to keep the dust out, till wanted for use. (5) Take a ham of beef, a cow-heel, and a fowl, or a piece of veal, a little salt, and a few peppercorns, and put them in a pot, cover with cold water, and boil slowly for ten or twelve hours. Strain the liquor, and when cold skim very clean. Put the stock into a saucepan, set it upon the fire, and let it boil slowly without a cover till it is reduced to a small quantity. When it is done sufficiently, dip a spoon in it, and touch it with the thumb and finger; if it causes them to stick together, it is ready. Put it into jelly-pots. (6) Boil some very strong clear gravy or jelly over a quick fire to the thickness of cream, stirring it constantly until it will adhere like jelly to the spoon. It must then be im- mediately poured out of the stewpan. The greatest care is required during the time of thickening to prevent it burning. 3 GTTTE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PE AC TIC AL COOKERY. 690 For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Glaze, and Glazing—continued. (7) Take a knuckle-bone of veal, some of the skin-bone of beef witk a little meat on it, any bones of cooked meat and poultry, a kam-bone, and some rind of bacon, and simmer tkem in a little water for twenty-four kours. Reduce to tke pro- portion of 4 pints to 1 pint. Tke stock must be very carefully skimmed at intervals. A very little seasoning- of pepper and salt only is required, but tke stock must be kept clean and clear. Strain through a hair sieve, and pour it into a pot or jar. This Glaze will keep for any length of time in a dry cold place. Glaze for Cold Fowl.—Put into a saucepan five parts of veloute sauce to one of chicken stock, reduce to a Glaze, thicken witk yolk of, egg, pass through a sieve, and it is ready for use. If too thick, stir in a little veal'jelly. Glaze for a Cold Ham.—The skin having been peeled off a boiled ham, let it get cold, then brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg-, sprinkle thickly over it some grated crumb of stale bread, cover it with a thick cream, and brown in a hot oven. Glazing in this way gives a delicious flavour to a ham. Glaze for Cold Hams and Tongues.—Put half a shin of beef in a saucepan with lgall. of water, and boil it for twelve hours. Boil a knuckle of veal in water until all the goodness is extracted. Strain the liquors from the beef and veal, mix them together, seasoning with moderate quantities of salt, pepper, and cloves, and boil until reduced to 1 pint. Strain the Glaze through a fine hair sieve, and pour it into a jar. When cold, tie it over and keep in a dry place. The Glaze will keep good for ten or twelve months. When using it, a small portion should be warmed, and with a feather brushed over the article intended for glazing. Glaze for Cold Partridges or Woodcocks.—Put into a saucepan five parts of Spanish sauce with one part of game stock, reduce it, pass through a sieve, and stir it into a little brown meat jelly. If kept in a jar in a cool place it will remain good for a long time. Glaze for Turkeys.—Skim off the fat from some meat jelly, put it in a stewpan, and stir over a sharp fire till it is of the consistency of thick cream. Skim it, and strain it into jars, in which it may be kept till wanted for use. Before using, it should be made hot, and brushed over the bird with a paste-brush. Half-Glaze (Demi-glace).—Put 1 pint of veal broth, 1 pint of Spanish sauce, and 3oz. of meat Glaze in a saucepan, and stir J it over the fire. Boil for five minutes, strain it through a fine hair sieve, pour it into jars, cover them with paper, and keep till wanted. Half-Glaze Sauce.—(1) Put 1 pint of clear concentrated veal gravy in a saucepan, mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira and a bunch of sweet herbs, and set the broth over the fire till boiling. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of potato- flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, then mix it in with the broth, and stir till thick. Move the pan to the side of the fire, and let the sauce boil gently till reduced to two-thirds its original quantity. Skim it well, pass it through a silk sieve, and it is then ready for use. (2) Add 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor to 1 pint of Spanish sauce, also 1 wineglassful of Madeira, a bouquet of herbs, and 1 small teaspoonful of pepper. Remove the fat caffefully, and cook for thirty minutes, leaving the sauce in a rather liquid state; then strain, and use when needed. This is used as a substitute for Madeira sauce. Poivrade Glaze.—Put .jib. each of carrots and onions into a stockpot with 1 joz. of shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, a stick of celery, a few sprigs of thyme, two or three bay-leaves, four cloves, loz. of mignonette pepper, two whole cloves of garlic, and lqt. of vinegar. Boil till the vinegar is all reduced, and then pour in ljgalls. of stock. When this boils, move the saucepan to the side, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain it through a fine hair sieve, and finish as directed for other Glazes. Yellow Glaze for Cakes.—Beat up the white of an egg with 4*oz. of powdered white sugar, add to it by degrees the strained juice of half a lemon, and beat it well, for the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be. When it is white enough, add to it a small quantity of strained infusion of saffron. Grate I Glaze, and Glazing—continued. the yellow rind of a lemon on lumps of sugar, or if the flavour of lemon-peel is liked, the rinds of two lemons may be used. Scrape off the yellow sugar, pound it, and beat it in, being careful however not to put too much, or it will make the Glaze bitter. Some other Glazes will he found under special headings, such as Fowls, -Fish, Game, &c. GLOBE ARTICHOKES.—See Artichokes. GLORIA.—See Coffee. GLOUCESTER CAKES.—See Cakes. GLOUCESTER JELLY.—See Jellies. GLOUCESTER PUDDING.—See Puddings. GLUCOSE.—The technical term for grape-sugar. It is manufactured in large quantities from rice or other starchy matter, and is used to adulterate cane-sugar and make cheap confectionery. GLUTEN. — A peculiar sticky substance found in grains of wheat. It gives by its presence tenacity to flour, and assists in the manufacture of macaroni, vermicelli, and other similar pastes. It is exceedingly nutritious, and flour containing an unusually large proportion of it is made into loaves (see Bread) and delicacies suitable principally for persons of weak digestion. Gluten Gems.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Gluten in a basin, mix into it one egg, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and make it into Fig. 851. Gluten Gems. a light paste with 1 pint of milk or water. Put the mixture into well-buttered small pans, place them in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When done, turn them out, and serve. See Fig. 851. Gluten Mush.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Gluten in a basin, mix in j teaspoonful of salt, and make it into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Add l pint of boiling water, stir it in well, pour it into a saucepan, and boil for twenty minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve with cream. Gluten Wafers.—Dissolve 1 saltspoonful of salt in 1 teacupful of milk, and stir in sufficient Gluten to make a stiff paste. Knead it well, roll it out very thin, and cut into round shapes with a biscuit-cutter; put these on a tin (not greased), bake a delicate brown colour in a moderate oven, and serve. GNOCCHI.—These famous Italian “ dumplings ” are now accepted as general favourites in all civilised coun- tries. As will be seen by the following receipts, they admit’ of great diversity of manufacture: French Gnocchi.—Put -jib. each of chicken forcemeat and choux paste into a basin, and work it well with a spoon, adding gradually a little grated Parmesan cheese. Take it out in small quantities with a table-spoon, drop it on to a board with a little flour sprinkled over it, and roll these into the shape of quenelles. Put them into a saucepan of boiling- water, and when they are thoroughly poached place them on a vegetable-dish in layers. Grate over a little Parmesan cheese, pour a little gravy and melted butter over each layer, and especially over the top one, set them to heat in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and serve. Fried Gnocchi.—Mix jib. of flour smoothly with 1 pint of milk and four well-beaten eggs, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with powdered cinnamon, and add a small quantity of salt. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire in one direction until thickened; then691 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, sec under their special heads. Gnocchi—continued. spread tlie paste on a board or dish, and leave it until cold, when cut it into pieces about tin. square, and dredge them lightly over with flour. Put a good-sized piece of lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the Gnocchi, and fry them quickly. When cooked, drain them for a second on a sheet of paper near the fire, then pile them on a dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew grated Fig. 852. Fried Gnocchi. Parmesan, sugar, and a small quantity cf cinnamon over them (see Pig. 852), and serve. Gnocchi with. Cream.—Beat the yolks of six with the whites of two eggs, then beat in smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, li table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 1 pint of milk, and flavour to taste with any essence liked. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire in one direction with a wooden spoon. When thickened, spread the paste on to a dish, and leave it until cold. Divide it into small equal-sized portions, put a layer of them on a baking- tin, strew over grated Parmesan cheese, sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, put a few small pieces of butter here and there, and cover with another layer of the Gnocchi. Proceed as before with the cheese, &c., until all is used. Put them in a brisk oven until browned on the top. Serve the Gnocchi while hot. Gnocchi with Potatoes.— Boil ten or twelve potatoes in water without removing their skins, and when they are done peel and pass them through a fine sieve. Tut this puree into a pan, dust over with a little salt and popper, and work into it a little butter, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and 1 handful of grated Parmesan cheese. Pour it out on to a floured board, work into it one-third of its bulk of flour, cut it into pieces, roll them out to the thick- ness of a finger, cut again transversely round the parts that are cut, put them in a saucepan with a little salted water, and poach over the fire. When done, and quite firm, take them out, drain, put them into another saucepan, g'rate a little Parmesan over, pour a little liquefied butter and gravy over, warm them, turn out on to a dish, and serve. Gnocchi with Potato-flour.—Put lib. of potato-flour in a lined saucepan with Ooz. of caster sugar, and stir in gradually lqt. of milk, keeping it quite smooth; stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of six and the whites of two eggs. Flavour with grated lemon-peel and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and continue stirring the mixture at the side of the lire until thick. Sprinkle a dish or paste-board with a little water, spread the paste on it, and leave until cold. Cut it into small squares, arrange them in layers on a baking-dish, strewing over each layer grated Parmesan cheese, sugar, a small quantity of cinnamon, and putting a small lump of butter on each square. Bake the Gnocchi for an hour in a moderate oven, and serve hot. Gnocchi with Semolina.—(1) Put A pint each of milk and water in a saucepan over the fire, and when commencing to boil sprinkle in gradually Alb. of semolina, and stir it over the fire until cooked; then spread it on a dish sprinkled with cold water, and leave until cold. Cut the paste into small pieces about lin. square, lay them on a baking-dish, grate Parmesan cheese over, and dust lightly with caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon; put a Gnocchi—continued. small lump of butter on the top of each, and bake them for an hour. Serve while hot. (2) Put from lqt. to 3 pints of milk into a saucepan, boil it, and add Jib. of semolina. The quantity of milk used must be sufficient to keep the preparation quite light. Sprinkle in a little salt and sugar, and work it with a spoon until the semolina is cooked and stiff. Whip three or four eggs in a basin together with 1 teacupful of milk, and pour it in, stirring well all the time. Pour the mixture ’ten to a baking- sheet, and when cool cut it up into rounds : put these at the bottom of a well-buttered dish, grate a little Parmesan cheese over, cover with a little butter, and set them in the oven to dry. Gnocchi Soup.- Pour in a saucepan a sufficient quantity of stock, clear and well freed of fat, to make the soup ; flavour to taste, add any vegetables liked, and keep it simmering at the side of the fire. Put lioz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 pint of water and salt to taste ; when boiling, stir in gradually as much flour as will make a stiff paste ; strew in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, then move the saucepan to the side of the Are, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. It is advisable to use a wooden spoon when making this paste. Squeeze the paste through a biscuit-forcer into the boiling stock, cutting it off in pieces lin. long. Boil the soup for two or three minutes longer, then turn it into a tureen, and serve very hot. Milanese Gnocchi.—Mix 1 teacupful of flour with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and stir in a sufficient quantity of beaten yolks of eggs and milk to form a smooth paste ; turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until sufficiently thickened. Divide the paste into small parts, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling broth, and boil. When cooked, pile them on a hot dish, strew plenty of Parmesan cheese over, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, brown under a salamander, and serve hot. Sweet Gnocchi. — Put the yolks of five and the whites of two eggs into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, add 1 table-spoonful of sugar and a little salt, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Pass this mixture through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add a little butter, and place the pan on the fire ; as soon as it thickens and gets lumpy, put it on the side, and work it well with a spoon until quite smooth; then place the pan on the fire again, add a little more butter, and boil for five or six minutes, working it vigorously all the time. Pour it out into a basin, mix in the yolks of two eggs and a little grated orange-rind (zest), and with a spoon take a little at a time and drop it on to a well-floured board. Boll these with the hand into balls, flatten them with the handle of a knife, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water for two minutes ; remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let them remain for five minutes ; then take them out, drain, and put them on a sieve. Arrange on a dish in layers, dust them over with cinnamon sugar and 3 table- spoonfuls of fried breadcrumbs, brush over with a little softened butter, and serve. Fig. 855. Timbale of Gnocciii. Timbale of Gnocchi. -Urbain Dubois gives the following receipt in a slightly different form: Make a little choux paste with IV gills of milk, without using sugar or zest, and put it 3 G 2692 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gnocchi—continued. • in a saucepan on tlie fire; when it is sufficiently reduced, add about 1 handful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg to taste. Sprinkle a little flour on a board, pour the mixture on it, add 1 teacupful of flour (or a little less), and work it well; roll it out, cut it up into strips double the thickness of macaroni, and cut each one transversely into pieces |in. long; place these on a sieve with flour, shape into rounds, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them bubble up two or three times. When quite firm, drain on a colander, put them in another saucepan, and sprinkle over with grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese in equal proportions. Pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of reduced bechamel sauce to which has been added a pat of butter and 1 teacupful of glaze. Have ready a timbale-mould lined very thinly with a flat of good paste, pour in the mixture, put the mould into a moderate oven, and bake for forty-five minutes. Turn it out on a dish, garnish with potato cro- quettes, ornament with glaze, and serve. See Fig. 853. Venetian Gnocchi. ■— Stir fib. of flour in sufficient boiling water over the fire to bring it to the consistency of dough, and add about loz. of lard and a small quantity of salt. When sufficiently cooked, move the paste from the fire, and when cold mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs and 2oz. of ricotta. Divide the paste into small equal-sized portions, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain the Gnocchi, pile them on a hot dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over, brown under a sala- mander, and serve very hot with rich brown gravy. GOAT.-—Tliis animal is not much known in the culi- nary world excepting for its milk. The young are some- times eaten, but are not reckoned very savoury unless wild. See Kid. Goat’s milk is considered to be very nutritious ; but after standing a very short time assumes a musky smell and taste that is not very pleasing to the palate. GODARD GARNISH (a la Godard).—See Gar- nishes. GODARD SAUCE (k la Godard).—See Sauces. GODIVEAU.—This word is probably a corruption of the French verb tricoter—to knit or cudgel, and veau— veal. It is applied to veal forcemeat, but as it has a distinctive character it is inserted as a special heading. The best receipts for preparing it are as follow: (1) Remove the skin and gristle from lib. of noix or fillet of veal, chop it up, and put it into a mortar with l|lb. of beef-suet, also finely chopped; pound them well, and add loz. of spiced salt to season. When it is of a smooth paste, add two eggs, one at a time, and mix them well in. Care must be taken not to let any whole pieces of veal or suet be visible. Place the mixture in a basin on the ice, or in any cool place. In the meantime, put loz. of butter, two eggs, f pint of milk, and a little salt into a saucepan, and stir it well over the fire until it boils ; then take it off, and put the pan into a large bowl of cold water to cool. Place the forcemeat back into the mortar with the butter - and - egg mixture, add two more eggs and fib. of clean rough ice, and pound all together, adding these ingredients slowly to the forcemeat, and pounding well upon each fresh lot being added. Put a little of the forcemeat into some boiling water; if it is too stiff, add a little more ice; and if too thin, a little more egg. Keep the forcemeat in a cool place until wanted. (2) Remove the stringy tissue from fib. of veal-suet, and pound it in a mortar. Chop an equal quantity of lean veal, add it to the suet together with lib. of stiff choux paste, and pound all together until well mixed. Season highly with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and f teaspoonful of nutmeg; add the yolks of six eggs and whites of two. When well blended, strain through a sieve, and put it on ice to he used when required. Poach it for three minutes before serving. This forcemeat can be prepared with poultry or game instead of veal. (3) Chop as fine as possible lib. of knuckle of veal and Gib. of beef-suet; mix in a seasoning of any kind of spice, pound the whole well in a mortar, add four eggs, and continue Godiveau—continued. to pound until every trace of the veal and suet is gone. Take care to make the forcemeat smooth and firm, and use it as required. Gocliveau Pie.—Finely chop fib. each of veal and chicken, put them in a mortar, pound them, and mix in one egg. Trim off the skin and discoloured parts of 21b. of veal- kidney suet, chop it fine, and pound; then mix it with the pounded meats, and pound them all together till a smooth paste is obtained. Season the mixture, and stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of unsweetened choux paste and another egg. When quite smooth, place it over ice and leave for one hour. Butter a hot pie-mould, line it with short-paste, then cover it with about a third of the forcemeat, mould the remainder of the forcemeat into quenelles on a floured table, and poach them in salted water. When firm, drain the quenelles, and arrange them in two superposed garlands in the mould, placing between them slices of raw truffle. Cut some sweetbreads into collops, and fry them lightly in butter ; then fill the hollow of the pie with them, intermingling them with slices of truffles, and piling them in a dome. Put some thin slices of bacon on the top, and then cover the pie with a flat of short-paste, trimming it round the edges, and moistening and pressing them together. Roll out the trimming's of the paste, and cut it to imitate leaves; damp them slightly at the bottom with water, arrange them on the top of the pie, and make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put it in a hot oven, and bake for an hour, covering it after the first ten minutes with a sheet of paper to prevent its taking too much colour. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, place it on a hot dish, lift off the paste cover and remove the pieces of bacon, pour in a small quantity of thin Madeira wine, replace the cover, and serve immediately. GOLD CAKE.—See Cakes. GOLDEN ICING.—See Icing. GOLDEN PUDDING.—See Puddings GOLDEN SAUCE.—See Sauces. GOLDEN SYRUP.'—See Treacle. GOOD-FRIDAY BUNS.—See Buns. GOOSE (Fr. Oie; Ger. Gans; Ital. Oca; Sp. Ansar). —According to some cooks tlie Goose (Anser domesticus) is considered to be the king of the poultry tribe, but it is of very little repute on the Continent, being regarded as coarse and unwholesome. The livers, especially fatted livers, and thighs of Geese, are thoroughly appreciated, and formed into pies with truffles—pates de foies gras— are deservedly esteemed all the world over. At one time extraordinary virtues were attributed to roasted Goose; it was thought to promote longevity and cure hydro- phobia. The fat, mixed with honey, was used to anoint the bites of mad dogs. The association of Goose with Michaelmas appears to have been of very ancient practice, it being usual, some centuries back, for tenants to present their landlords with a Goose at the September quarter. At this time, too, the green Goose may be considered to have out- grown the youth which entitled it to be called green, and should be just in its prime. Young Geese fed on oats and green refuse, such as lettuce- and cabbage-leaves, soon till out and fatten; but green Geese require some- thing more powerful in its fattening action, such as oatmeal or peas, mixed with skimmed or butter-milk. Such a diet, with occasionally oats and barley, is supposed to prepare them for the table within four weeks of hatching. The age of a Goose is easily tested by breaking the upper bill with the finger and thumb. The feet, too, give some strong indications of age, being coarse and worn in the old Goose and comparatively smooth in the young one. The following receipts will give ample instructions for the culinary preparation of Geese, and other informationTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 693 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. will be found under Trussing and Carving. See also Wild Goose. Baked Goose.—(1) Select a large fat Goose, draw and singe it, wash it inside, and wipe with a cloth. Pare and core eight or nine cooking apples, put them in a basin, and add 7oz. each of sultana raisins and currants, washed in warm water and wiped dry in a cloth ; season with a little finely- powdered cinnamon and add 3 handfuls of breadcrumbs and two eggs ; mix these, stuff the Goose with it, sew up the gap, truss the bird, and put it on a baking-dish with a little water. Cover over well with butter and then a piece of Fig. 854. Baked Goose. thick paper (see Fig. 854), place it in the oven, basting fre- quently, and bake for two hours. Finely chop a red cabbage, put it in an enamelled saucepan with a little salt and broth, set it on the fire, and cook gently, taking care to keep it quite firm. When about three-parts done, add half-a-dozen pork sausages slightly fried in Goose-fat, and when quite done, pour a little vinegar over it. Remove the string and paper from the Goose, put it on an oval dish, and garnish with the cabbage and sausages. Stir in a little broth to the stock, boil for a couple of minutes, strain it, skim off the fat, and serve in a sauceboat. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw the bird, and wipe it dry with a cloth. Take a little fresh pork, two onions slightly fried, parsley or sage, and chop them all to a mince ; add a few breadcrumbs and two eggs, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and stuff the inside of the bird with it. Sew it up, truss it, and place in a pan on the top of the fat taken from it, and cut in pieces. Put a few table-spoonfuls of hot water in the pan, sprinkle the Goose over with a little salt, cover with a piece of buttered paper, tie it round, and then put it into a slack oven, basting frequently and turning it often; when done (it will take about one-hour-and-a-quarter), take it out, drain, remove the string- and paper, and place it on a dish. Pour a little gravy into the pan, boil it up for a minute or two, skim off the fat, strain it, and serve in a tureen. Garnish the dish with small savoy cabbages, sour- crout, or chestnuts boiled in gravy, and serve. (3) Prepare and clean a Goose, remove the pin-feathers, and wash it thoroughly in warm soapsuds to open and cleanse the pores ; then draw it, wash the inside in cold water, and wipe it dry with a cloth. Make a stuffing with mashed potatoes, seasoned with sage, onion, salt, and pepper ; or with breadcrumbs, finely-chopped apples, and boiled onions in equal proportions, and seasoned with sage, salt, and pepper. Stuff the Goose, sew it up, truss it, put it on a trivet in a pan, cover the breast over with slices of fat salted pork, and bake in the oven for forty-five minutes. When a good quan- tity of the oil has run from the bird, take the pan out of the oven, pour the oil into a basin, take the pork off the breast, and replace the Goose in the oven. Flour it well, and when browned add a little hot water to the pan, and baste frequently. When well browned and quite tender, take it out, put it on a dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with apple sauce in a boat. Collared Goose.--Procure a plump Goose, a small fowl, and a pigeon; split the birds down the back, and bone them carefully. Prepare a rich forcemeat with the livers of the birds, some sausage-meat, cold ham, mushrooms, and breadcrumbs, all finely minced, well seasoned, and bound together with beaten egg. Season the interior of the birds with salt and pepper, spread a layer of forcemeat inside the Goose, put in Goose—continued. the fowl, spread that also with forcemeat, and then put in the pigeon, with a layer of forcemeat inside it. Roll the Goose up round the two other birds, sew it, and dredge it over with flour. Put the Goose on a baking-dish, and bake it in a good oven, basting it occasionally with butter. When cooked, place it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, dredge in a small quantity of flour, add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and small quantities each of salt and cayenne. Stir the gravy over the fire until hot, then pour it over the Goose, and serve. Devilled Goose.—Singe and draw a good-sized Goose, plunge it into a pan of boiling water, and leave for thirty minutes or so; then stuff it with a mixture made of mashed potatoes, butter, onions, parsley, thyme, and a little black pepper. Put a few slices of fat pork in a pan, place the Goose on it, and pour in a pint of broth. Put a little butter on the breast of the bird, and pour over it a mixture made with 2 table-spoonfuls each of pepper, vinegar, celery-vinegar, made mustard, and half that quantity of any acid fruit jelly. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, dust it well over with flour, and put it in a quick oven, basting frequently; when done, take it out, lay it on a dish, skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over, and serve. Devilled Leg1 of Goose.—Remove all the water from 1 table- spoonful of fresh butter by beating it up with a little salt, add to it 1 saltspoonful each of dry mustard and white pepper, I saltspoonful of dried salt, and any kind of chutney, also a small quantity each of sugar and cayenne. Work these to a paste, spread it over the leg of a cold cooked Goose so as to cover it, put it on a gridiron, and broil on both sides over a clear fire. Serve at once. Goose in Aspic Jelly.—Cut up three calf’s feet, put them in a saucepan with 2qts. of water, and boil until the flesh leaves the bones. Singe, draw, and clean a Goose, put it into a saucepan, strain the liquor of the feet over it, put in two or three small onions, two bay-leaves, a small bunch of thyme, basil, and tarragon, 1 teaspoonful of bruised allspice, three or four cloves, and half a lemon. Pour in more water to bring the liquor nearly to the height of the Goose, put the lid on the stewpan, and place it over the fire until the liquor boils ; then move it to the side, and simmer until the Goose is tender. When cooked, take the Goose out of the saucepan, cut the meat off in slices, put the Bones back into the liquor, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Dust a small Fig. 855. Goose in Aspic Jelly. quantity of cayenne pepper into the liquor, give it a sharp flavour by adding lemon-juice or vinegar, strain through a jelly-bag until clear, and skim off all the fat. Pour a thin layer of the jelly into a rather shallow mould, leave it to set, then arrange on it pieces of beetroot cut into various shapes, the whites and yolks of hard-boiled eggs, sliced separately, and a few green pickles. Pour carefully over these another thin layer of the jelly, and leave it until firm. Arrange the slices of Goose on the top of the jelly, then pour in carefully the remainder. Pack the mould in ice, or stand it in a cool place until the contents are quite firm. When about to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a dish, and garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 855). Goose Pie.—(1) Cut the meat from the bones of a cold cooked Goose, put the bones with the skin and stuffing (if any) into a saucepan with a little water, and boil for two hours.694 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., tvferred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. Sufficient water should be used so that when boiled there will be at least 1 pint of gravy. Let it cool, and skim off the fat. Put a layer of apple sauce at the bottom of a pie- j dish, lay the meat on this, cover it ‘Over with another layer j of sauoe, and fill the dish up with as much gravy as it | will conveniently hold. Sprinkle over with pepper and salt. J cover the dish with a good suet crust, and bake in a moderate oven until the crust is done. If uncooked meat is used, it should be first stewed for an hour or so. Onions, boiled and minced, may be used in place of the apple sauce, if preferred. (2) Singe and draw a fine large Goose, and cut off the legs and wings close to the body. Thoroughly clean the giblets, put them with the Goose into a saucepan, add a large onion stuck with five or six cloves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs with a few sprigs of parsley. Pour in sufficient cold water to cover the bird, put the lid on, and place the saucepan over the fire until the water boils ; then move it to the side and simmer for two hours, seasoning when half done with salt and pepper. Boil jib. of chestnuts, and when soft peel them, put them into a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound them; then mix in sufficient beaten yolk of egg to make a smooth but stiff paste, and add a small quantity of salt. Form the chestnut mixture into small egg-shaped balls. Cut all the meat in slices from the bones of the Goose, and scrape off what remains on the neck and bones. Chop the scrapings of the flesh with an equal quantity of bacon, and season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of minced herbs. Bind the mixture with egg, divide it into small, equal-sized quantities, and lay them on a plate. Return the bones, with the feet and gizzard, to the gravy, and stew them a short time longer. Butter a deep pie-dish, line it with short-paste, put in the meat alternately with slices of the giblets, and the meat and chestnut balls between the layers. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, seasoning with salt and pepper and a small quantity of lemon- juice, just sufficient to give it a slight acidity ; pour part of the gravy in the pie, cover it with a flat of the same paste, trim it neatly round the edges, moisten and press together, and make a hole in the centre. Put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake it a deep yellow colour. When cooked, take it out of the oven, fix a funnel in the hole in the paste, pour in the remainder of the gravy, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Raised.—Bone a small Goose and a young fowl, season them interiorly with beaten mace, salt, and pepper, put inside of the fowl a boiled, skinned, and sliced neat’s tongue, and put the fowl inside the Goose. Butter a larg-e raised pie- mould, line it with a good light paste, put in the Goose breast upwards, season it well, and put in about |lb. of butter in small pieces ; cover the pie with paste, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut out some imitation leaves, moisten them slightly underneath with a little milk, orna- ment the top of the pie with them, and brush the leaves over with beaten yolk of egg. Bake the pie for three hours in a good oven, and if it takes colour too quickly, cover it with a sheet of paper. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, and leave it until cold. When about to serve, spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, cut the pie across in slices, arrange these on the dish, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. If the pie is to be served hot, prepare the following gravy, which should be poured in the pie two hours after it has been in the oven : Put the bones and trimmings of the birds into a saucepan with lqt. of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper to taste, and boil them gently until the water is reduced to half its original quantity; then strain, and use it. Goose K.ag'O'fit.—Peel and chop two onions, put them in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of Goose dripping (or fat), and fry until soft and lightly coloured; then dredge with flour, brown them, and stir in 1 pint of clear broth. Cut up any cold remains of Goose, put it into the sauce with 1 wineglassful of white wine or strong beer and 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the lid on the pan, and stew the contents for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the ragout on to a hot dish, and serve with any kind of vegetables on a separate dish. Goose Sandwiches.—These sandwiches are made with the smoked breasts of Geese cut into very thin slices. Cut some 1 Goose—continued. thin slices of bread-and-butter, lay the slices of Goose on them, with a few thin slices of hard-boiled eggs, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and cover them with slices of bread-and-butter. Cut the sand- wiches into fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Hashed Goose a la Lyonnaise.—Cut the legs of a Goose into small pieces, and fry them in Goose’s fat. When done, take them out, and fry some slices of onions in the same fat until brown; then drain, and put them on the pieces of Goose, which must be piled up on a dish. Pour over poivrade sauce, and serve. Indian Dunipode Goose.—Clean and bone a tender fat Goose, and pour in, or rub over the inside, a mixture composed of 1 dessert-spoonful each of mustard, sweet-oil, and mixed sauces. With the bones and giblets (without the liver) prepare a rich gravy, well seasoned with bay-leaves, sweet herbs, salt and pepper. Take the liver of the Goose, together with 31b. of beef and 4oz. each of fat bacon and beef-suet, mince them very fine, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of chopped sweet herbs, Fig. 856. Indian Dumpodf. Goose. 1 dessert-spoonful each of black pepper, salt, and finely- powdered mixed hot spices, 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted bread- crumbs, and about 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies. Stuff the Goose with this mixture, put it into a saucepan in which 5oz. of fat or lard has been melted, pour over the strained giblet soup, and cook until quite tender. Glaze the Goose, put it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of pickles and glazed vegetables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, and potatoes (see Fig. 85G). Mock Goose.—Boil a boned leg of pork until half cooked, drain it, and trim off all the skin; then fix the meat in front of a clear fire, and baste it frequently with butter. Boil and chop two or three onions, and mix with them some bread- crumbs, finely-powdered sage, and salt and pepper. When the meat is nearly cooked, spread the breadcrumb mixture over it, and let it brown. Place the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with balls of forcemeat fried brown in butter, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Pickled Goose (German).—(1) Draw, singe, and truss a Goose, place it in a saucepan with a layer of minced vegetables at the bottom, surround the Goose with pieces of shin of beef, a boned calf’s foot, and a few blanched pork rinds, sprinkle over a little salt, and put in a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a few peppercorns and cloves; then pour in broth, with a wineglassful of white wine added, to half the height of the Goose, and place the pan on a quick fire ; skim well, and when it shows signs of boiling, cover the pan closely, remove it to a moderate fire, and place a few hot embers on the top. When the Goose is done, take it out, let it get cold, cut up into pieces, and put them into a basin. Pass the stock through a sieve, remove the fat when cold, and clarify it with a little finely-chopped raw meat and eggs, adding tarragon-leaves, sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of vinegar. Pour this through a fine sieve over the Goose, and when it is set, put the pieces of Goose on a dish in the form of a dome, and garnish with the jelly and lemons cut in slices or triangles. (2) Cut off the legs of a Goose, and divide the breast from the back by cutting through the middle of the body; rub the pieces with salt and saltpetre, pack them closely together in a dish, and set them in a cool place. In four days’ time put the back and legs in clear chicken broth, season to taste, and stew until the flesh is tender. The breast should be695 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Por details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. dried, covered with paper, and smoked. Cut the breast into thin slices, and serve it raw with bread-and-butter. (3) Cut off the breast and leg’s of a Goose, and rub them well with plenty of salt and a small quantity of saltpetre. Rub and turn them well every day for three or four days, then roll them in plenty of bran, giving each piece a good coating. Bind each piece of Goose separately in thin paper, and smoke them for six days; then remove the paper and rub off the br-an with a cloth. Cut the meat into thin slices, season with salt and pepper, arrange them on a dish over whicli has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve raw with thinly-sliced bread-and-butter. Potted Goose. — Singe and draw a Goose, and remove the bones. To fill a potting-pan 7in. in diameter the Goose should weigh about 41b. when cleaned and without the giblets. Lard the breast with strips of fat bacon, and sprinkle over with a little salt and pepper. Remove the sinews from the thighs, cut off the flesh, add to it 8oz. of fillet of veal and lib. of fat bacon, chop them all up, and pound in a mortar together with loz. of spiced salt. Put a layer of this mix- ture at the bottom of the pan. Spread out the Goose with the skin part downwards, dust it over with a little more spiced salt, put another layer of the veal mixture in the inside of it, roll it round, and put it in the pan ; cover over with more of the veal mixture, put a few slices of bacon on the top, place a bay-leaf on this, put the lid on the pan, and set it in a large saucepan. Pour in water to about 2in. in depth, place the saucepan in the oven, and cook for three hours. When the Goose is done, which can be ascertained by putting a trussing-needle into it, take it out, let it get cold, and cover over in the dish with a layer of the melted fat of the Goose. Let it remain for a day, and it will then be ready for use. Potted Legs and Wings of Geese.—Take the legs and wings of some cold roasted Geese, and trim them. Put a large piece of lard in a stewpan over a slow fire, and boil for ten minutes, taking care it does not burn. Into a large jar put a few sprigs of thyme and a couple of laurel-leaves, dust the legs and wings of Geese over with salt, and x>ut them, one at a time, in the jar, pouring in after each some of the hot lard. Leave a clear inch space at the top, and fill this up with lard. When the lard is cold, tie a piece of stout paper over the jar. Roasted Goose and Chestnut Stuffing.—(1) Peel fifty chest- nuts, chop them up as small as possible, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, Jib. of sausag-e-meat, half an onion finely chopped, a little minced parsley, and a very small quantity of garlic. Set the saucepan on the fire, and cook for ten minutes. Scald and finely chop the liver of the Goose, add it to the chestnut mixture, and cook gently for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Prepare a Goose, stuff it with the mixture, and roast it before the fire. Boil gently fifty more chestnuts in white wine, adding any required seasoning, and cooking them until tender but not broken. When the Goose is done, put it on a dish, garish with the boiled chestnuts, and serve. (2) Trim lOoz. of fillet of veal, remove the gristle, chop it up with lib. of fat bacon, and season with loz. of spiced salt; moisten with 1 teacupful of broth, put it in a mortar, and pound well for ten minutes or so. Roast and peel forty chestnuts, put them in a basin, add the veal mixture, and mix together. Pluck, singe, and draw a Goose, stuff it with the chestnut mixture, truss it, put it on a spit before a moderate fire to roast, and baste well. When done (it should take forty minutes), remove it from the spit, cut off the string with which it was tied, and set it on a dish. Skim off the grease from the gravy, pour it on the dish, and serve. (3) Roast a sufficient quantity of chestnuts, peel them, taking off the inner skin, and pound to a paste, together with chopped parsley, shallots, a bit of butter, the beaten yolks of two or three eggs, a little pepper and salt, and the liver of the Goose. Stuff the Goose with the mixture, and then roast it as above. Roasted Goose with Haricot Beans (German).— Soak 2 breakfast-cupfuls of haricot beans in water for twelve hours, then boil them in rich broth with a clove of garlic, salt and pepper to taste, and a Goose’s liver. When the liver is done, take it out and chop it, also take out the garlic and Goose—continued. drain the beans. Put the latter in a well-buttered baking- dish, sprinkle with the chopped liver, and squeeze over the juice of a lemon (or 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar). In the meantime the Goose should be roasted before the fire; when nearly done, put it over the beans and cook gently in the oven for about thirty minutes. Place the beans on a hot dish, with the Goose on top (see Pig. 857), and serve. The Goose should be nearly roasted before being placed over the beans, otherwise the beans will become sodden with fat, and be overdone. Smoked Goose. —(1) Pluck a Goose as soon as killed, remove all the back, together with the bone attached to it, take out the inside of the remainder of the bird, wash and dx-y it, open it out flat, rub well with a mixture of salt, salt- petre, and honey, and leave for a couple of days ; then rub it over with powdered thyme, allspice, gai-lic, and white pepper, and leave it for another two days ; now sew it up, first in muslin and then in thick cloth, and hang it for a week over a wood fire. Take it down, remove the thick cloth, and put it in a cool current of air for three days ; then remove the muslin, sew up in more muslin, and place it in a cool room until wanted. The back part that was taken away may be used for stew or broth. (2) Select three Geese as fi’esh as possible, singe and draw them, l'inse them inside with strongly-salted water, and wipe quite dry with a cloth. Put into a pan lib. of bay-salt, ljoz. of saltpeti-e, 1 table-spoonful of powdered sage, two shallots, and three or four broken bay-leaves, anti pour in sufficient water or vinegar to cover the Geese. Boil the liquor for ten minutes, then move it to the side and simmer for twenty minutes. Put the Geese in a large pan, and when the pickle is quite cold pour it over them. Leave them thus for three days, then take them out and hang up to drip. When well drained, rub a large quantity of cayenne over them, and hang for three days and three nights iix cool smoke. At the end of that time the birds should be tied up separately in calico, and hung up in a cool, dry place till wanted for use. The best way to cook them is to cut them into pieces and boil. (3) Singe and draw a Goose, split it open down the back, and wash and dry it thoroughly. Rub it over inside and out with Joz. of saltpetre, and then with plenty of common salt and coarse brown sugar. Leave the bird in pickle for a fortnight, or twelve days in the summer-time, and keep it well rubbed and turned every day. When ready, cover with sawdust, and smoke it in wood-smoke for fourteen days. Stewed Goose. —(1) Singe and draw a Goose (one that is too old for cooking otherwise will do), timss it as if for roasting, and put it in an oval pan that is just large enough to hold it, with a few slices of veal and bacon placed at the bottom; cover the Goose over with slices of bacon, surround it with parsley, chives, half a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and basil, and four shallots, all very finely minced, and spi’inkle over gx-ated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Pour over lqt. of water, 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy, and J pint of white wine. Put the lid on the pan, hermetically close it with paste, place it over a slow fire, and stew gently for five or six hours. When done, put it in a deep dish. Remove the fat from the liquor, and if it is stiff enough to form a jelly when cold, pour it over; if not, it must be reduced until it is. Serve cold. (2) Select a young Goose; singe, draw, and truss it, and put it in an oval pan with a few thin slices of bacon atTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 696 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose—continued. the bottom. Cut a calf’s foot in pieces and place it round the bird, with a bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, onions, and carrots, cut in slices, a few blades of mace, and a little salt and pepper; add 1 pint each of water and stock, 1 liqueur- glassful of brandy, and 1 wineglassful of wine. Close the lid tightly with paste, and stew slowly for five or six hours. Place it on a dish with the calf’s foot, bacon, &c., and serve hot. (3) Half roast a Goose, then take it from the fire and skin it. Put it over the fire in a stewpan with a few leaves of mint and one or two leaves of sage chopped fine, a little chopped onion, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and 1 pint of beef gravy; cover the stewpan closely, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Skim it quite free from scum, and put in about lqt. of green peas ; cover the pan again, and simmer for twenty minutes; then stir in a piece of butter and sufficient flour to thicken, boil it gently for ten minutes longer, and serve hot with the peas laid round the bird and the gravy poured over. (4) An old Goose does well for this. Lard the breast with strips of bacon rolled in chopped parsley, thyme, sage, and bay-leaf, tie it up in a good shape with thick tape, put it into a saucepan that will only just hold it, cover with a few slices of fat bacon, season with salt and pepper, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of cold water and wine, and 1 wineglassful of brandy, cover over the pan securely, and stew slowly for fully four hours. It may be served either hot or cold. If in the former way, the liquor should be poured over ; and if in the latter, the liquor should be clarified with beaten white and shell of egg, boiled up after the bird is taken out, skimmed, strained until clear, and allowed to get cold to form a jelly; then cut into pieces or shapes, and the dish garnished with them. Stewed Goose with. Sour-crout. — Take a middling-sized Goose, pick, singe, draw, and truss it as if for boiling, and put it in a saucepan. Plunge 41b. of sour-crout into boiling water, and let it blanch for ten minutes; when cold, take it out, drain, squeeze out all the water, and put it into a lgall. saucepan with lqt. of broth, 1 pint of fat skimmed off the top of the stockpot, and a little pepper ; cover, the pan, close it all round with paste, put it over a slow fire, and simmer gently for eight hours. Put the Goose in this with jib. each of fat streaky bacon and uncooked Bologna sausage, and one onion with a couple of cloves stuck in it; place the pan on the fire, boil up, and then remove it to the side where it can simmer for two hours. When the bacon and sausages are done, take them out; remove the rind from the bacon, cut it into slices ljin. long, lin. broad, and iin. thick ; cut the sausages up into slices of a similar thickness, and put them on one side until wanted, but still keeping them hot. As soon as the Goose is cooked, take it out, and cut off the string with which it was tied. Put the sour-crout in a colander and squeeze it dry; place it on a dish with the Goose, and garnish with the slices of bacon and sausage alternately. Goose Fat should not be thrown away, as it may be clarified as follows, and used for many purposes: Take all the fat that has been stripped off the intestines of the Goose, and any superfluous fat from the inside, put it into a basin of cold water, and leave until the following day, changing the water occasionally; then drain the fat, cut it into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with two peeled and sliced juicy apples, put the stewpan over a slow fire, and melt the fat. Strain it through a fine sieve into a jar, stir in a small quantity of salt, and leave until cold. Fasten a stout piece of paper over the jar, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. Goose’s Giblets.—For cleaning and preparing them, see Giblets. They are considered very delicious dressed as follows: Forcemeat of Goose’s Liver. — Put 2oz. of finely-chopped onions into a basin, and pour boiling water over them ; cover the basin, and let them stand for a few minutes ; then pour off the water, and add to them their weight of breadcrumbs, a parboiled Goose’s liver, and five or six clean sage-leaves, sprinkling in a little cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste. Some cooks prefer the onions to be boiled, but this is con- Goose—continued. sidered to be a mistake, as it takes off the freshness of the flavour. A little butter may be used with the forcemeat, but it is not compulsory, as the Goose’s liver has generally fat enough of its own. Goose’s Giblets stewed, with Apples.—Clean the giblets thoroughly, cut them up, put them in a stewpan with an onion stuck with three cloves, a small bunch of parsley, and a small quantity of water ; dust in salt and pepper, and stew them gently. Peel six apples, cut them into quarters, and core; put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, a slice of lemon-peel, brown sugar to taste, and cook them gently until soft, but without breaking. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until brown; then mix in a small quantity of the cooking-liquor of the giblets. Strain the syrup off the apples, mix it in with the sauce, and stir over the fire until thick and smooth. Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of currants, and put them in boiling water until plump. Remove the onion and parsley from the giblets, pour the sauce in with them, and colour darkly with caramel; mix the currants, previously draining them, and the quarters of apples in with the giblets, and make all hot together. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Goose-Giblet Gravy for Roasted Goose.—Skin the head and neck of the Goose, remove all pin-feathers from the tips of the wings, scald and scrape the legs and feet, after cutting off the claws, clean the heart and gizzard, and cut away the gall from the liver. Put them all into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover, with salt and pepper in a palatable quantity, and boil until the Goose is nearly done. Remove all the bones from the giblets, and chop them all up small. Save the water in which they were boiled. Put over the fire in a saucepan 1 piled table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until they are brown, gradually stirring in the chopped giblets and broth. If there is not enough broth to make a gravy of the proper consistency, add a little boiling water, season with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and it is ready for use. Goose-Giblet Hotch-potch. —Clean some giblets, scald them in boiling water, refresh them in cold water, then drain and wipe them. Put the livers on one side ; skin the necks, put them with the other pieces in a saucepan with some clarified fat, and fry over a brisk fire till coloured; dredge in a small quantity of flour, stir them over the fire for a minute or two longer, then pour in gradually, while still stirring, plenty of rich broth. Add a bunch of parsley, and when the liquor boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering'. Cut 7^1b. of streaky bacon into small squares. Peel and wash some young carrots, turnips, and onions, and if very large cut them into halves or quarters, and scald them in boiling water. When the giblets are about half cooked, add the other ingredients to them ; ten minutes later, put some small peeled potatoes in, and finish cooking. Wash a small cabbage, trim off all the outside leaves, cut it into quarters, scald it in boiling water, then drain and braise it. Cut the livers into moderate-sized pieces, and cook them with the g'iblets for ten minutes. When cooked, put the giblets in the middle of a hot dish, place a group of the cabbage on each side and at the top and bottom, putting the other vegetables in groups between the cabbages, remove the bunch of parsley, pour the cooking-liquor over the giblets, and serve. Goose’s Giblets stewed with Pears.—Clean and wash a set of Goose giblets; put three or four thin slices of freshly-pickled pork in a saucepan, add the giblets, pour in sufficient cold water to cover them, and season with salt and pepper. Place the saucepan over the fire until the water boils, then move it to the side, and let it simmer until the giblets are tender. When they are cooked, strain nearly all their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan; mix with it a few cloves and a small quantity of ground allspice, then put in lib. or more of pears that have been peeled, cut into quarters, and cored. Stew them gently until tender, stir in a small quantity of sugar, and colour the sauce a rich brown with caramel. Put the giblets and slices of pork on a hot dish, arrange the pears in a circle round them, pour the sauce over the top, and serve hot. Goose-Giblet Pie.—Singe and scald the wings and head of a Goose, cut off part of the beak, and remove the eyesTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 697 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Goose—continued. skin the feet and head, cut open and cleanse the gizzard, cut the neck into moderate-sized pieces, and the liver and heart into halves. Put the giblets into a stewpan with a sliced onion, a few peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs; moisten to height with water, and keep them gently simmer- ing at the side of the fire for about an-hour-and-a-half. Leave the giblets until cool, then cut them into smaller pieces. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of tender steak and the giblets, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Strain in the cooking-liquor of the giblets, and cover the whole with a good plain crust, trimming off neatly round the edges, and making a small hole in the centre. Lay a sheet of paper over the top of the pie, and bake for an- hour-and-a-half in a brisk oven. It may be served hot or cold. Goose’s Giblets cooked in Westphalian Style.—Clean and prepare the giblets, lay them on a dish, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and leave them for twenty- four hours. When ready, put the giblets in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of stewed and stoned prunes, three onions, two bay-leaves, a few cloves and peppercorns, and a lump of salt; pour in sufficient water to cover the giblets, and stew them gently at the side of the fire. Put loz. each of butter and flour in a frying-pan, and stir it over the fire until browned. When the giblets are tender, mix a small quantity of their cooking-liquor with the browned flour, then stir the whole in with the giblets, and boil gently for ten minutes longer. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Goose Livers.—Thoroughly wash and clean six Goose livers, put them in a saucepan with two or three shallots, a piece of parsnip, a small bunch of sweet herbs with a few sprigs of parsley tied up in it, two or three cloves, salt and pepper to taste, and about J pint of clear stock. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently until the livers are tender. When cooked, take the livers out of the saucepan, being very careful not to break them, and cut them into slices. Take some of their cooking-liquor to make the sauce, strain it into a small stew- pan, thicken it with a small quantity of flour kneaded with butter, and stir it over the fire until boiling ; next put into it a few sliced mushrooms and the sliced livers, and let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Turn the livers and mushrooms, with the sauce over them, on to a hot dish, garnish with thin rolls of fried bacon and small croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Green Goose, or Gosling.—The modes of trussing and preparing this for cooking are precisely the same as for Goose. Baked Green Goose.—(1) Select a gosling—not very young, for the flesh is then flabby—and after it has hung for a day or so, pluck, singe, and draw it; then put it into water with a vei-y little salt, and let it remain for several hours, to remove the strong taste. Wash and wipe the inside, and fill it with a stuffing made with finely-mashed potatoes, a little lump of butter, a pinch of salt or fresh pork chopped very fine, a minced onion, and a small quantity each of chopped parsley, thyme, and sage. Sew it up, truss, and grease it all over with butter or lard. Put it on a trivet in a baking- dish with the giblets ; pour into the dish 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and put it in a quick oven. . Baste frequently, turning it round every now and then so as to brown on both sides. When thoroughly cooked, put it on a dish with gravy, and serve with onion sauce. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw a gosling, wipe the inside with a cloth, and stuff it with small apples, kept whole and with the peel left on, but with the cores removed (which can be done with a corer), and add a small bunch of mugwort (or motherwort) ; then sew it up, truss it, and put it in a roast- ing-pan covered with the Goose-fat. Put 1 teacupful of water into the pan, sprinkle a little salt over the Goose, cover it with buttered paper, and put it in the oven; turn and baste frequently, and let it remain for three hours, when it should be quite done. Sprinkle over a little more salt, remove the string, and place the Goose on a dish. Remove the fat from the pan, stir in a little gravy, boil it up, strain, and serve in a sauceboat. Goose—continued. Braised Green Goose. —Pluck, draw, and singe a Green Goose, and stuff it with a forcemeat made with pork, slightly seasoned and mixed with a little parsley and breadcrumbs ; sew it up, chop off the leg-bones and pinions at the joints, and truss it. Put the fat from the Goose at the bottom of a saucepan with a few vegetables cut in slices, place the Goose on these, and pour in 1 pint of broth, with a little salt, and reduce the liquor over a brisk fire; pour in J- bottle of wine, and a little more broth to half the height of the bird; drop in a few cloves and peppercorns and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil up, remove the pan to a moderate fire, cover the Goose with Fig. 858. Braised Green Goose. buttered paper, baste often, and put the lid on the pan. Place a few hot ashes on the top, and braise for three hours. When done, pour off the stock, skim off the fat, put the fat back with the Goose in the pan, keeping it hot, and reduce the stock to half-glaze in another saucepan; add a little brown sauce to thicken it, reduce again, stir well, add 1 teacupful of Burgundy, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. Untruss the Goose, place it on a dish, and garnish with cooked glazed chestnuts, arranged alternately in groups with small cooked sausages. Pour a little of the sauce over the Goose, put a paper ruffle on each leg, and serve with the rest of the sauce in a boat. See Fig. 858. Green-Goose Pie. — Take two young but good-sized Gi’een Geese, and be careful that they are well plucked and singed ; wash them perfectly clean, bone them, and season with a mixture of allspice, pepper, salt, and mace, all in fine powder; then put one bird inside the other, drawing the legs inwards and pressing them as close as possible; put them into a pie-dish with plenty of butter, and cover with short- crust or puff paste. Or they may be put into a baking-dish that has a tight-fitting cover, with plenty of butter, and baked. Boasted Green Goose. —Season the inside plentifully with salt and pepper, but do not stuff it, fix it on a spit in front of a clear brisk fire, and roast for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, place it on a hot dish, pour rich brown gravy round, and serve with a sauceboatful of sorrel or gooseberry sauce. GOOSE’S FAT X.XVEK, (Fr. Foie Gras).—The cele- brated Strasburg Goose’s Fat-Liver pies (pates de foies gras) are too well known to require much description. Most purveyors of preserved meats import them, and although the demand is ever so great, it is certain that the supply is equal, if not superior to the occasion. The question naturally arises as to whether some sub- stitutes are not occasionally introduced; that is, if the process by which the fat livers are said to be produced is faithfully observed in all genuine cases. “ To obtain these livers,” says Grimod de la Reyniere, a famous French cook and gourmet, “it is necessary to sacrifice the personal comfort of the animal. Crammed with fattening foods, kept without water, and set near to a fire, before which it is nailed by its feet to a plank, this goose passes, it must be acknowledged, a very un- happy existence. The torment would indeed be almost intolerable if it were not encouraged by thoughts of the honourable lot which awaits it. This anticipation makes it bear its sufferings with fortitude, for when it reflects that its liver, bigger than itself, larded with truffles, and clothed in a scientific pate, will spread all698 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. over Europe tlie glory of its name, it resigns itself to its fate, and suffers not a tear to How.” Pates do foies gras are imported in terrines for keep- ing purposes; but it is generally admitted that the real paste pates imported fresh in October and November are incomparably superior. The livers are also preserved plain in tins for culinary use at a distance, in which state many cooks prefer to receive them, believing, as they have every right to do, that many of the so-called pates de foies gras contain fat livers that are quite foreign to the Strasburg goose. As the pies are well seasoned witli truffles, and truffles are very abundant in Perigord, the names are sometimes associated. Some very excellent dishes besides pies can be pre- pared from Goose’s Pat Liver, of which the following selected receipts are evidence. Very good imitation Goose’s Pat Liver can be prepared, it is said, by stewing pluck, fowl, rabbit, pork, or even lamb’s liver in pork-fat or beef-marrow. Attereaux of Goose’s Fat Liver. Take half of a cold, cooked fat liver, divide it into Jin. squares, Jin. thick; put them into a kitchen basin, add an equal quantity of same- sized squares of cooked pickled ox-tongue, season, sprinkle over 1 handful of minced truffles, and pour over a few table- spoonfuls of hot villeroy sauce. Roll them in this sauce until they are thoroughly masked with it, and then let them cool. Thread the squares of liver and tongue alternately upon Fig. 859. Attereaux of Goose’s Fat Liver. small Avooden or metal skewers (see Fig. 859), and roll them in breadcrumbs; dip into beaten eggs, roll in breadcrumbs again, then plunge them into plenty of boiling hog’s lard, and fry to a bright brown colour. Remove, drain, and serve on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, with lemon cut into quarters set all round. Baked Goose’s Fat Liver. -Take a large liver (without being put into water), cut off the gall and parts surrounding it if at all green, and cloute or lard it in the inside and underneath with small pieces of truffles. Sprinkle over with salt and pepper, place it in a basin, and cover with 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion into a frying-pan with some rasped bacon and a few mushrooms also finely chopped, and fry them until their moisture is reduced. Add two or three truffles also chopped, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, remove the pan from the fire, and when the mixture is cool add half its bulk of raw ham cut up into small pieces or squares, an equal quantity of bacon as of the mushrooms, onions, &c., also cut up small, and a little grated nutmeg and finely-minced parsley. Spread the preparation on the bottom of a gratin-dish, then place the livers on the top of it, put a layer of thin slices of fat bacon on this, cover over with a piece of buttered paper, and place the dish in a moderate oven to bake for forty-five minutes or so. It will require to be basted, and the fat that comes from it will be sufficient for the purpose. Pour off the fat when the liver is done, remove the bacon, and glaze it with a little thick Madeira sauce. Chaudfroid of Goose’s Fat-Liver Cutlets.—For this dish a jar of Strasburg fat livers will be required; remove the fat, and keep it on ice for a few hours. When quite firm, divide the preparation into three equal portions, trim, and cut them crosswise into slices, giving each the shape of cutlets as nearly as possible. Coat the cutlets .with transparent chaud- froid sauce, and leave them till it has cooled. Fix a support of fat in the centre of a pain-vert, and surround it with chopped aspic jelly. Trim the cutlets, fix some paper frills ■on the thin ends, and arrange them in an upright circle on the pain-vert, supported by the chopped jelly. Decorate the top of the support with an ornamental attelette, or fix the For details respecting Culinary Processes,' Utensils, Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. pain-vert on a dish, having previously garnished it with a fine border of fat. Forcemeat of Goose’s Fat Liver.—Put lib. of fat liver into a mortar with 3oz. of boiled and cooled calf’s udder and 7oz. of bread panada, and pound them well together; add a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Return it to the mortar, pound it again, and add the yolks of five eggs, one at a time, taking care to mix one in thoroughly before another is added. The forcemeat should then be put in a basin in a cool place until wanted for use. Fried Collops of Goose’s Fat Liver.—(1) To the Alsatians the following- receipt is attributed by Dubois: Take a small fat liver and cut it transversely into slices, sprinkle these over with salt and pepper, dust with flour, place them in a sauce- pan with a little butter, and fi-y them, turning them so as to have both sides browned. When cooked, take them out with a fork, and place them on a dish. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and onions into the saucepan in which the fat livers were cooked, and fry them until done ; add five or six chopped mushrooms, and cook until they are dry ; sprinkle them over with a little salt and pepper, add 1 table-spoonful of Madeira and 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and place the pan again on the fire. Boil for a few minutes, replace the fat livers in the saucepan, and warm them through. Arrange them on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. (2) Separate a Goose’s fat liver into two parts, and cut them into slices of equal size and thickness. Beat them slightly with a rolling-pin, trim them into regular shapes, and sprinkle over with flour, salt, and pepper. Place them in a flat saucepan with a little warmed butter, and fry over a good fire until they are done, turning them frequently so as to cook on both sides. Take them out, drain off the fat, place them on a dish in a circle, and serve with a little brown sauce poured over them. Fried Collops of Goose’s Fat Liver with. Game Puree.— Cut some fat livers into collops, trim them to an equal size, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, dust well with flour, place them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until well cooked. Prepare a border of chicken forcemeat, place it on a dish, put the collops on it, decorate it with a few cooked truffles, fill the centre of the border with game puree, and serve. Fried Collops of Goose’s Fat Liver with Truffles.— These are prepared the same as for Fried Collops op Goose's Fat Liver (No. 2), with the exception of mixing them (after draining) with a little Madeira sauce and some sliced truffles, and serving on a crouton of bread placed on a dish. Fried Goose’s Fat Liver served with Truffle Sauce (a la Perigueux).—Take a large liver, and without steeping it in water cut it up into slices as near of a size as possible. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, dip them into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs. Put Fig. 850. Fried Goose’s Fat Liver served with Truffle Sauce. Jib. of butter into a flat saute-pan; when it is warm, add the slices, and fry them over a brisk fire, turning them over so as to cook on both sides. When done to a light brown, take them out, drain, put them in a circle on a dish, and stand a boat of perigueux sauce in the centre. Garnish with slices of lemon (see Fig. 860), and serve hot. Goose’s Fat Livers in Aspic.—Sprinkle over the required number of fat livers a little cayenne and salt, roll them up luces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.099 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. b'vr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, «0c., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. into balls, mask them with bechamel sauce mixed in a little warmed aspic, and decorate with slices of cooked black truffles cut in various ornamental designs. Put as many- small moulds as there are balls of fat livers on ice, pour in a little warmed aspic jelly, let it set firm, put in the fat livers carefully so as not to disturb the decorations, fill up the moulds with more of the warmed aspic jelly, and let them set. Finely chop a few lettuce-leaves, mix them up with oil and a slight seasoning of salt and pepper, put a layer of this on a dish, turn the contents of the moulds on to it, and serve with a garnish of shapes of coloured aspic jelly put round the base of them. Goose’s Fat-Liver Cloutes witli Truffles.—(1) Cut some raw truffles into fillets, having them flat at one end and pointed at the other, insert them into small holes made in a fat liver, the same as if larding, sprinkle salt and pepper over, and cover with strips of fat bacon and then with buttered paper. Place the liver on a baking-sheet with the rim turned up, put a little butter over it, and bake in a slow oven for forty minutes or so, continually basting with more butter to keep the paper moist. Take it out when done, remove the paper and bacon, and place it on a dish with a garnish of quenelles, : mushrooms, and truffles. Put a little brown sauce reduced with wine at the bottom of the dish, and serve with a little more in a sauceboat; or if perigueux sauce is used, it must be poured all round the fat liver and not served in a boat. (2) Prepare a fat liver as for No. 1. Put it in a saucepan with some mirepoix, cover over with a piece of buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, and place it on the side of the fire to simmer rmtil quite done. Take it out, drain it, and dish on a croustade of bread ; pour a little Madeira sauce over, and serve. (3) Procure a fat liver weighing about 21b. (or if one at that weight is not obtainable, get two or three smaller ones), j Remove the gall, and eloute the liver with truffles. Place some bacon-fat in a frying-pan, and when melted put in with it a little mirepoix of vegetables and fine herbs; fry them, and when done, take them off, and let them cool. Spread the preparation of vegetables on the liver, and cover it with thin layers of fat bacon. Roll out some paste, then wrap the liver in it, damping the edges of the paste to make them stick, put it on a fiat baking-dish, and bake for one hour. Select fifteen black raw truffles, pick them carefully but do not peel them, put them in a stewpan with a little Madeira, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Take out the truffles, and mix with the wine J pint of boiling brown sauce; boil it till sufficiently reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. When done, unwrap the liver, put it on a hot dish, mask it with forcemeat, arrange the truffles round the liver, pour the sauce over, and serve. Goose’s Fat-Liver Croquettes.— (1) Take Mb. each of truffles and fat liver, cut them into small pieces of equal size, and put them into lqt. of hot Spanish sauce reduced with a little essence of truffles and made quite thick. Take out when cool, separate the pieces, roll them into little balls or shapes like corks, dip them into egg beaten up with oil, salt and pepper, and then roll them on a board covered with breadcrumbs. Plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown colour. Take them out, drain, dust over with salt, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with parsley for a garnish. (2) Mix joz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue with 1 breakfast- cupful of fat-liver forcemeat; put it into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or sherry wine, and 1 table-spoonful of meat glaze. Reduce for ten minutes, stirring well; then turn out on to a cold flat dish, cover with buttered paper, and put aside to cool. Divide this into six parts, shape each one like a pear, roll them in breadcrumbs, dip in beaten egg, and put a slice of truffle on the top of each. Again roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat for four minutes. Remove them, drain them well, and serve on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin. Any garnish may be used. Goose’s Fat-Liver Fritters.—Put a handful or so of semo- lina into a sauoepan with a little broth, and boil until it is of the consistence of thick paste. Pour it out on to a board, and when it is cold line some tartlet-moulds with it to the thickness of jin. Chop equal quantities of truffles and fat Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. livers into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, put them in the moulds, cover over the top with a layer of the semolina paste, close the edges, remove them from the moulds, brush over with egg, then cover them witli bread- crumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Goose’s Fat Liver in Paper Cases. -Select a few fresh and firm Goose’s Fat Livers, and cut them up into slices jin. thick. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry lightly ; take out, and let them cool. Meanwhile take an equal bulk of truffles cooked in Madeira, and cut them up into slices jin. thick. Put a little Spanish sauce into a saucepan with a small quantity of essence of truffles, reduce it, and mix in the livers and truffles. Have ready some paper cases slightly oiled, fill them with the mixture, and serve. Goose’s Fat-Liver Quenelles (German).— Finely chop a Goose’s Fat Liver. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, stir in four well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of finely - clioppcd parsley, a little salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken; then move it off, and stir in the crumb of a roll that has been soaked in milk and squeezed until almost dry. Add the chopped liver and 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs to the other ingredients, work the mixture well, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix in two more beaten yolks of eggs. Shape the mix- ture into quenelles, using two table-spoons for the purpose. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying'-pan, melt it, then put in the quenelles and fry them. When evenly browned, drain, arrange them on a hot dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, and serve very hot. Goose’s Fat Liver in Shells (en Coquilles).-Chop half or three-quarters of a fat liver into small dice or squares, and put them into a saucepan with half their bulk of chopped mushrooms. Sprinkle over these a little salt and pepper, and place the lid on the pan. Put f pint of bechamel sauce into another saucepan, and place it over a quick fire to reduce it, keeping it stirred continually and adding slowly a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze until the sauce is soft enough without being too thick ; then add it to the fat- liver mixture in the other saucepan, and place the pan on the side of the fire where it will warm without boiling. Fill ton table-shells with the mixture, smooth the surface, cover them with breadcrumbs, and salamander, or place them in a slow oven to brown. Put a folded napkin on a dish, place the shells on it, and serve. Goose’s Fat Liver in Timbale.— (1) Butter a large dome-shaped mould, place three strips of nouille-paste round the inside of it, and then line the mould with short-paste. Cut up a fat liver into large squares, put them into a saucepan with half their bulk of raw truffles cut up into quarters, sprinkle over salt and spices, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and pour 4 table-spoonfuls of Madeira over them. Place the pan over a good fire to reduce the liquor quickly, then remove to the side and let it cool. Take jib. of raw chicken-meat and the same of bacon, chop them up very fine, and add this to the trimmings of the liver and truffles and a few chicken livers. Put these in a mortar and pound them well, season with pepper and salt, and pass the whole through a fine sieve. Take a little of this forcemeat and mask the bottom and the sides of the mould to about j in. in thickness, then put in the fat liver and truffles in layers, alternately with the forcemeat mixture. Continue this until the mould is full, finishing off with a layer of the forcemeat. Place a flat of paste over this, make a small hole in the centre, and put the timbale in a baking-dish with hot ashes round to support it. Place it in a moderate oven, cover it with buttered paper, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out, and after it has stood for fifteen minutes, pour in through the hole in the crust j pint of Madeira sauce with a little aspic jelly dis- solved in it; let it remain for twelve hours or so, then turn it out on to a large round of fried bread, garnish with chopped aspic jelly round the base of the timbale, and round the bread put croutons of aspic jelly. Garnish an attelette skewer with a truffle and a cock’s comb, and place it in the top of the timbale.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 700 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. (2) Put ljlb. of chicken forcemeat into a basin, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of puree of cooked goose’s or poultry livers. Put a dozen timbale-moulds in a pan, fill them up with the forcemeat, place the pan in the bain-marie, and let it remain until the forcemeat is firm. Turn out the timbales, dip them into beaten egg' and then breadcrumbs, and mark them round on the top with a small paste-cutter, so that when they are cooked an opening may be easily made. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry; take them out, drain oft' all the fat, open them where they are cut, remove all the inside, and fill each one with a mixture of cooked fat liver and truffles, thickened with a little brown sauce reduced with the trimmings of truffles. Place the lids or plugs on the timbales again, arrange them on a dish in the form of a pyramid, and serve. Goose’s Fat Livers with Truffles.—Select four Goose’s Pat Livers, sprinkle with salt and pepper, wrap them round with slices of fat bacon, put them in a saucepan with a little mirepoix with the fat left on it and a little wine added, and cook them until done. Remove from the fire, let them cool in their stock, take them out, remove the bacon, trim, and mask them with a little transparent light-brown chaudfroid sauce or jelly. Place the livers on a square piece of fried bread about lin. thick, having a crouton support in the centre of it, mask the support with a thick layer of chopped aspic Fig. 861. Goose’s Fat Livers with Truffles. jelly, and lean the livers against it. Decorate them with pieces of truffles dipped in aspic jelly, and in the spaces between them on the fried bread put some cooked and glazed round truffles. Garnish an attelette with a cock’s comb and truffle, and place it in the top of the crouton support. Put a circle of butter balls round the base of the truffles, and another circle of chopped aspic jelly outside the circle of butter and round the livers, to cover up any part of the bread that might be exposed. Finish with sprigs of parsley and slices of lemon (see Fig. 861). Imitation Fates cle Foie Gras.—(1) Wash a calf s liver, put it in a saucepan with salted water to cover, and boil until tender; also boil a calf’s tongue in another saucepan. When cooked, drain the liver, cut it into small pieces, and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar, moistening with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. When quite soft and smooth, season the paste with a few pounded cloves, 1 teaspoonful each of Worcestershire sauce and mustard, half a grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne; add 1 table-spoonful of warm water, and a few drops of onion-juice. Beat the mixture well until all the ingredients are mixed. Skin the tongue, slice it, and cut it up into small squares and three-cornered pieces; work them in with the liver mixture, and press the whole into well-buttered pate-jars; pour in each jar a layer of clarified butter. When cold, put on their lids, and keep them in a very cool cupboard. In the winter time they will keep fresh for several weeks. (2) Boil the livers and gizzards of four or five fowls till thoroughly done, then drain, and wipe them dry. Peel an Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. onion and chop it fine, put it into a saucepan over the fire with 3oz. of butter, and simmer slowly for ten minutes. Put the livers of the fowls into a mortar, and pound them to a paste. When the butter and onions have simmered, strain the liquor through a piece of muslin, squeezing it well to get out all the flavour of the onion ; work this strained butter by degrees with the pounded livers, together with 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce and salt and pepper to taste. Cut up the gizzards (they must be very well boiled and tender) into little squares. Butter a small glass jar, and press into it the pounded livers, putting in here and there little bits of the boiled gizzards instead of truffles. When all the paste is pressed in, cover it with warmed butter. (3) Boil 21b. of calf’s liver in salted water until cooked, then drain, and when cold grate it. Mince 21b. of cold roasted pork-fat, and mix it with the liver in a mortar; add 1 table- spoonful of minced truffles, J table-spoonful of minced button- mushrooms, and ljoz. each of ground allspice and black pepper. Pound the mixture until perfectly smooth, and put it into small pots, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top. Melt some butter, pour a little into each pot, tie them over with stout paper, and keep them in a cool dry cupboard. If they are to be kept for any length of time, the space in each jar should be filled up with melted paraffin-wax instead of butter. Fate de Fois Gras.—(1) Take a good-sized Goose’s Fat Liver and carefully remove the gall, put the liver into a pan of boiling- water to set, taking care that it does not boil, then take it out and let it cool. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion into a saute-pan with a little rasped bacon, and fry, but without allowing it to colour. Cut the liver into large squares, put it into the pan with the onions, and add 8oz. of raw truffles cut up into small squares or dice; sprinkle over a little salt and add a few spices to season. Place the pan over the fire for eight minutes or so, tossing it frequently, then take it off the fire and let the ingredients cool. Finely chop Jib. each of lean veal and fat bacon, mix in with them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, soaked in milk and squeezed thoroughly dry, mince it up a little more, and season with salt and pepper. Place Fig. 862. Pate de Foies Gras this mince in a basin, add some trimmings of truffles and the fat liver, also chopped very fine, and Jib. of lean ham cut into small dice or squares. Butter a hot pie-mould, place it on buttered paper on a baking-sheet, line it with short-paste, put a layer of the mince at the bottom and sides, then fill it with a round flat of paste; decorate, leave a hole in the centre, brush it over with egg, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. As soon as the paste begins to colour, place a piece of buttered paper over it. When it is done, remove the top of the pie, wipe off as much of the fat as possible, mask the contents with brown sauce reduced with Madeira and trimmings of truffles, and serve very hot. See Fig. 862. (2) Rub lOoz. of butter into lib. of flour, add the yolks of two eggs and a little salt, make it into a soft paste with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, stir until quite smooth, and place it in a basin on the ice to set. Put it on a paste-board and roll out thin. Line one-dozen-and-a-half small pie-moulds about ljin. deep and 2in. in diameter with the paste, fill them701 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Goose’s Pat Liver—continued. with flour, cover over the top with a layer of paste, join the paste at the edges, cut them round evenly, brush the top over with egg, and put them into a moderate oven to bake. Take them out, turn out the flour, brush the crusts all over, inside and out, with egg, and dry them in the oven for a minute or so. Fill them up with cooked livers and truffles in equal parts cut up into small squares, pour in a little Spanish sauce, ornament the outsides with coloured glaze, arrange on a dish with an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley sprigs, and serve. The truffles and livers should be moistened with a little of the sauce before being put in the patties. (3) Put into a saucepan a little chopped shallot and garlic, a small quantity of sweet herbs rubbed to a powder, white and red pepper, salt, powdered mace, grated nutmeg, and a large lump of butter; as soon as the butter is melted, put in the Goose’s fat livers, using as many as required for the size of the pie, and toss them over the Are until they are cooked. Turn the whole into a mortar, and pound it well, adding the yolks of six or eight eggs to each pint of the mixture ; pound well again, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Line a mould with thin slices of larding-pork, taking care that there is no saltpetre in it, put in some of the mixture to about Jin. thick, place over some pieces of uncooked liver and slices of truffles, cover with another , layer of the mixture, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Cover over with a solid piece of larding-pork, put the pate into a pan half-full of cold water, and bake in a moderate oven for from one to two hours, according to its size. Lift up the cover. When the pate is taken out, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry or brandy, and serve. (4) Cut the fat livers into slices, put them in a stewpan with some sliced truffles and well-flavoured brown sauce, and stew gently at the side of the fire. Line some buttered patty-pans with puff paste, and fill them with uncooked rice; put a cover of paste over each, trim evenly round the edges, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake. When the patties are cooked, lift off the covers and empty out the rice. Fill the patties with the liver mixture, and replace the covers. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, garnish them with parsley, and serve. Potted Goose’s Fat Livers.—-(1) Finely chop 1 Jib. of Goose’s Fat Livers and Jib. of calf’s liver, put them in a mortar, pound until quite smooth, and pass them through a fine sieve. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan with the pounded livers, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes ; next mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, a few drops of rose-water, salt to taste, a small quantity of cayenne, and stir the mixture over the fire for five minutes longer; then put in a few chopped truffles and 1 teaspoonful of brandy. Let the mixture stew gently at the side of the fire until very thick, then pack it in small jars, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top. When cold, fill the jars up with clarified butter, tie them over with parchment, and keep in a dry cupboard. (2) Put a layer of forcemeat of fat livers at the bottom of a potting-pan, then a layer of slices of truffles, next a layer of livers also cut into slices, and season with spiced salt. Continue in this way until the pan is full, finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Cover the top over with a few slices of fat bacon, put a bay-leaf on the top, place the cover over the pan, and cook in the bain-marie. Take out when done, let it get quite cold, and it is then ready for serving. Potted Goose’s Fat Liver -with Jelly. — Take a jar or tin of Strasburg fat liver, and place it on the ice for two hours or so; then take off the fat from the top, and with an iron spoon dipped in hot water cut out the contents of the jar into oblong-shaped pieces, not too thick. Fill a border- mould with aspic jelly, and place it on the ice ; when it is quite firm, turn it out on to a dish. Place the pieces of fat liver in a pyramid shape in the centre of the border, and serve. Raised Pie of Goose's Fat Liver.—Line a raised pie-mould with light paste, place a layer of fat-liver forcemeat at the [ bottom, next a layer of truffles cut into slices, then one of fat livers also cut into slices, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Put a layer of paste over the top, pinch the edges together, place another layer of puff paste over ' Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. that, brush it over with egg, decorate it, make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Take it out, let it cool, then pour in a little meat jelly mixed with a little reduced essence of chicken, and cover the hole over with a small leaf or piece of paste. Put it on a dish, and serve. Great care must be taken to remove any parts of the livers that are in the slightest way tainted by the gall. Rissoles of Goose's Fat Liver. — Put G table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce into a flat saucepan with an equal quantity of brown sauce, and reduce them till thick. Add 4 table- Fig. 863. Rissoles of Goose's Fat Liver. spoonfuls of Madeira and about 3oz. of truffles, peeled and finely chopped. Stir well while it is reducing, and add gradu- ally a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. When this is done, take it off the fire and mix in lOoz. of fat liver, cooked and finely chopped. There should be only just suffi- cient of the sauce to thicken the mixture, for if it is too thin Fig. 864. Cutting out Rissoles of Goose’s Fat Liver. it would run out of the rissoles while cooking. Roll out ljlb. of short-paste on a board sprinkled with flour, form it into a square, and place small balls of the mixture at equal distances from one another over one-half of the paste (see Fig. 863). Damp between and around the balls, and lay the other half of the paste over all. Press with the fingers Fig. 865. Rissoles of Goose’s Fat Liver ready for Serving. between the balls, and then cut them out with a scalloped paste-cutter about 2Jin. in diameter (see Fig. 864). Dip the rissoles in egg-and-breadcrumb or pounded vermicelli, and fry in boiling fat until they are done. Drain them, arrange on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley and lemon. See Fig. 865.702 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Goose’s Fat Liver—continued. Sandwiches of Goose’s Fat Liver.—Remove all the crust from a tin-loaf, cut the crumb into slices about -Jin. in thick- ness, butter them well, and cover half of them with potted fat liver; place the other half on the top of them with the butter inside, press slightly together, and cut them up into fingers 2tin. long by ljin. wide. Surprise Pate de Foies Gras.—Put fib. of almonds in water to swell. Take them out, blanch, drain, pound them in a mortar, and then pass them through a fine sieve. Put a stick of vanilla in a saucepan with lib. of sugar and J- pint of water, and boil it to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; place the pan on the side of the fire, and pour in the almonds, mixing to a thick paste. Put this into a mortar, and work it quite smootli; then take it out, and work it on a board dusted over with a little caster sugar. Divide it into several | parts, and colour a few of them red, veined with white, to represent ham; others yellow, like fat liver; some black, with chocolate or caramel, in imitation of truffles, and one lot | the colour of paste when baked. Take this last one, roll j it out very thin, and with it line a small plain mould as if for pate de foies gras. Damp the inside of this imitation J paste and cover it with a coating of white paste, so as make it appear like underdone crust. Take some of the red paste 1 veined with white and also some of each of the other two, \ and chop them up together to represent forcemeat; thicken it with a little apple jelly, and spread a layer of it on the bottom of the imitation crust. Cut some large squares of the yellow mixture, and put some square pieces of the black paste into small holes made in them, to imitate larding the livers with truffles. Cut some square pieces off the white paste and the | red paste, and work them together in a basin, mixing in a few small preserved nuts, a few preserved apricots and pears, | all cut up, and a few small pieces of apple or quince paste, j Place this mixture inside the pie, arranging the different shades artistically. Leave a little space between the meat and the crust, and pour into it some soft liqueur jelly rather firmer than usually prepared, and of a darker colour. As | soon as the jelly is set, make the preparation in the shape | of a dome; cover over with a paste flat, fix the rim to the i mould, cut it straight with the mould, and pinch it all round as for ordinary pies. Cut a hole in the centre of the dome, and decorate with imitation leaves. Take away the mould j and pinch the edges of the paste. Colour the paste all round and on the top with caramel, reduced to a syrup as | thick as treacle, which will give a light brown colour i to the pie. Send it to table with a piece cut out of it, to show the inside ; or it may be placed on a dish and surrounded with croutons or chopped jelly. To the ingenuity of M. Urbain Dubois we are indebted for the above. GOOSEBERRIES (Fr. Groseilles; Ger. Stachel- beeren; Ital. Uva spina; Sp. Grosellas).—The fruit or berry of the liibcs Wrossitlaria, the English term being a corruption of Groseberry, ancl not in any way con- nected with goose, beyond that a sauce made from the green berries is sometimes served with roasted goose. The following is taken from Nicholson’s “ Dictionary of Gardening ”: “ The Gooseberry is a hardy, deciduous shrub, native of various parts of Europe, including Britain, where it is either indigenous or has been introduced at an early period and become naturalised. Its cultivation is neglected in France, Italy, Spain, and Southern Europe, but is much practised in Britain, where the fruit has been highly esteemed since the time of Henry VIII., and is still one of the most popular grown. Plants, under favourable conditions, are re- corded as having attained an age exceeding forty years. Two remarkable ones are stated to have been growing about the year 1821 against a wall in the garden of the late Sir Joseph Banks, at Overton Hall, each measuring upwards of 50ft. from one extremity of the branches to the other. Gooseberrries succeed well in the North of England and Scotland, and the fruits attain a higher flavour in these parts, where the temperature is moderate and comparatively cool, than in the hotter climate of the South, where they frequently become prematurely ripened Gooseberries—continued. by scorching sun and an insufficiency of moisture. In Lancashire, Cheshire, and neighbouring counties, the raising of Gooseberries has received special attention; more, perhaps, by encouragement offered for very large fruit than for their superior quality when ripe. These large-fruited varieties are, however, valuable in a green state for cooking, being sufficiently grown for the purpose before the smaller sorts, which are, as a rule, of the highest flavour when gradually and properly ripened. The crop is a valuable and usually remunerative one in the neighbourhood of large towns, where there is a demand for the fruit both in a green and ripened state. It is one of the earliest in use for cooking, bottling, or preserving. “ Gooseberries are divided into classes that are dis- tinguished from each other by the colour of the fruits and the absence or presence of hairs on the skins. Varieties in each colour are very numerous, many of the smaller fruits being of the highest flavour, while the larger ones are fit for cooking earlier in the season. Those having red skins are variable in flavour, a large quantity being more or less acid. On account of their late-keeping properties the best red sorts are most valuable for dessert-fruit in autumn, after the majority of the others are past. The highest flavour is attaiued in the amber and yellow varieties, which are very tender in the skin, and mostly early in ripening. Many of the green ones are large, and contain but little pulp in pro- portion. Others of the same colour are small, but re- markably thin-skinned and rich in flavour when ripe. Amongst white sorts there are several of good quality, but they are not so generally cultivated as the others. Subjoined is a selection from the leading varieties in each class: “ Class I.—Fruit with Red Skin. Conquering Hero, Crown Bob, Dan’s Mistake, Dr. Hogg, Henson’s Seedling, Ironmonger, Keen’s Seedling, Lion’s Provider, London, Miss Bold, Monarch, Plough Boy, Raspberry, Red Champagne, Red Turkey, Red Warrington, Rifleman, Rough Red, Wilmot’s Early Red, Wonderful. “ Class II.—Fruit with Yellow Skin. Brown Girl, Catke- rina, Criterion, Drill, Early Sulphur, Fanny, Garibaldi, Gipsy Queen, High Sheriff, Leader, Leveller, Lord Rancliffe, Moreton Hero, Mount Pleasant, Peru, Rumbullion, Smiling Beauty, Sulphur, Yellow Ball, Yellow Champagne. “ Class III.—Fruit with Green Skin. Glcnton Green, Green Gascoigne, Green London, Green Overall, Green River, Green Walnut, Gregory’s Perfection, Heart of Oak, Hebburn Prolific, Jolly Anglers, Keepsake, Laurel, Lord Eldon, Pitmaston Greengage, Random Green, Roseberry, Shiner, Stockwell, Tele- graph, Thumper, Thunder.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 703 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. “ Class IV.—Fruit with White Skin. Abraham Newland, Adams’s Snowball, Antagonist, Bright Venus, Careless, Cheshire Lass, Crystal, Early White, Hero of the Nile, King of Trumps, Lady Leicester, Mayor of Oldham, Princess Boyal, Queen of Trumps, Boyal White, Snowdrop, White Champagne, White Fig, White Lion, Woodward’s Whitesmith.” The Barbadoes Gooseberry, which grows on a climbing plant, is not found in this country, although its fruit is considered very good. The Coromandel Gooseberry is another edible variety known as Carambola; but those known in this country have already been described. Bottled Green Gooseberries.—(1) Cut the tops and stalks off a large quantity of green Gooseberries, wipe them all perfectly dry, pack them in wide-mouthed glass bottles, and put in. 1 table-spoonful of powdered sugar to each breakfast-cupful of Gooseberries. Stand the bottles in a deep saucepan, having laid cloths between them to prevent their knocking against each other and cracking. Fill the saucepan with salted water, and keep it boiling fast; put more fruit in the bottles as that which is in sinks down, and when the steam begins to come out of the bottles, and while the saucepan in which they are is still on the lire, put the corks in. When cold, seal them over with wax. The reason for bottling- Gooseberries in this way is to ensure their being- preserved without air in the bottle. When the bottles are corked, take the saucepan off the fire, and leave them in till the water is cold; then take the bottles out, wipe them, and put by in a dry cupboard till they are required for use. (2) Cut the tops and stalks off the Gooseberries, wipe, and pack them carefully in wide-mouthed glass bottles. Boil some sugar to 22deg. (see Sugar-boiling), pour it over the Gooseberries, filling- the bottles to the necks, cork them, and tie down. They should be kept in a dry cupboard till wanted. Bottled Biipe Gooseberries.—These are bottled in the same way as green Gooseberries, but the fruit is gathered when it is much riper. Compote of Green Gooseberries.—(1) Cut each Gooseberry at one side, squeeze out the seeds, and scald the jackets in hot water till they rise to the top. Take them out and put them in salted cold water to make them green. Place them in clarified syrup (see Sugar-boiling) and simmer, letting them remain in this syrup some time to sweeten them well. When they have remained long- enough, take them out, and arrange in the compotier. Let the syrup continue to boil gently till thick, pour it over the Gooseberries, and servo. (2) Take 2qts. of green Gooseberries, pick off the stalks and the stems, throw them into a larg-o saucepan of water boiling on the stove, and let them remain two minutes; take them out and drain, put them into a basin with sufficient cold water to cover, let them remain for two minutes, and then drain again. Put 21b. of white sugar and J pint of water into a preserving-pan, and boil till it is clear, taking off all the scum as it rises. When the syrup is clear, put in the Gooseberries and let them simmer till they are tender, but not long enough to let them burst. As soon as they are tender, take them out of the syrup, and put into a glass dish. Boil the syrup till a little of it put into a saucer jellies as it cools, then remove the pan from the stove, let it cool, and pour it over the Gooseberries. Let them stand till cold, and serve. Gooseberry Cheese.—(1) Select quite ripe Gooseberries, put them into the oven, bake till tender, rub them through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and boil gently. Sprinkle over caster sugar in the proportion of 3oz. to each pound of fruit, adding- only a little at a time, and continue to boil until quite thick. It will take several hours. (2) Snip off the tops and stalks from some green Goose- berries, steep them for a few hours in cold water, drain them, put them in a mortar, and bruise. Put them in a preserving- pan over a gentle fire and cook until tender, stirring fre- quently. For every 31b. of Gooseberries allow 2^1b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, put it in with them, and boil the whole until thickly reduced. Press the Gooseberry pulp into jars or moulds, and when cold cover and tie them down. Gooseberry Chutney.—(1) Make lib. of moist sugar into syrup with 1 pint of vinegar, and boil two dozen unripe Gooseberries—continued. Gooseberries in lqt. of vinegar. When cold, mix the Goose- berries and their vinegar with the syrup and 1 pint of cold vinegar; add lib. of salt, fib. of French garlic, fib. each of onions and ground ginger, 2oz. of cayenne, 6oz. of mustard- seed, and lib. of chopped raisins. The garlic and onions should have been peeled and bruised, and the mustard-seed washed to remove loose husks. Mix the ingredients well, turn them into small bottles, cork, and tie them down. (2) Pick off the tops and stalks of lqt. of green Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with f pint of brown vinegar, and boil them. Make a syrup with lib. of brown sugar (see Syrups), mix the Gooseberries with it when they are soft, and add f pint of vinegar, lib. of stoned and chopped raisins, 3oz. each of pounded and dried garlic and bruised mustard- seeds, and loz. of dried and pounded chillies. When all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, put the mixture into a cool oven for several hours. If in a month or two it is too dry, it may be moistened with a small quantity more vinegar. Put the chutney into small, wide-necked bottles, and cork them down tightly. (3) Snip the tops and stalks off 3 pints of green Goose- berries, and chop them; stone and chop lib. of raisins, and mince as finely as possible two onions and 2oz. of garlic. Mix these together in a saucepan with 4 table-spoonfuls each of ground ginger, ground mustard-seeds, and salt, If breakfast-cupfuls of raw sugar, and 3 pints of vinegar. Also add a small quantity of cayenne, and a sufficient quantity of turmeric to colour. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, pass it through a sieve, and put it into small, wide-mouthed glass bottles. When cold, cover them .with stout paper, and tie down. Gooseberry Cream.—(1) Pick 21b. of green Gooseberries, put them in a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil them until they will easily mash; strain the juice through a fine sieve, and weigh it; to every pound add lib. of loaf sugar, return to the pan, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan with 1 break- fast-cupful of cream, stir it over the fire until dissolved, but not letting it boil, and then let the cream cool, stirring constantly. Let the Gooseberry syrup get nearly cold, add the cream and the juice of a lemon, turn it into a mould, and set it on ice. This cream should be made fully twenty- four hours before being wanted. (2) Pick 3 pints of green Gooseberries, put them in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, and boil quickly. When nearly done, stir in 2oa. of butter; and when they are quite cooked, mash them to a pulp with a wooden spoon, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Sweeten the pulp to taste with caster sugar, and beat it up well with the yolks of four eggs. Turn it into a mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to about three- parts its height, and steam for half-an-hour. When cold, turn the cream out of the mould, and serve. (3) Pick 1 quart of unripe Gooseberries, plunge them into boiling- water for a minute, drain the water from them, and rub them through a sieve. Put them over the fire in a saucepan, and boil till they arc reduced to one-half their original bulk ; then sweeten to taste, and add to them 1 pint of cream. Dissolve 2oz. of isinglass in a very little water, strain it through a cloth, and stir into the mixture. Pour it into a mould, let it stand till set, and then turn out on a glass dish. Gooseberry Cream Ice.—Pick and wipe 1 quart of Goose- berries, put them in a preserving-pan with a little water and a pinch of salt, and let them simmer at the side of the fire till tender; then strain, put them in a stewpan with ■jib. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir the pulp over the fire for ten minutes. Pass it through a sieve, mix with it 1J pints of cream and a little caster sugar, turn it into a freezer, and as it freezes at the sides, work it to the middle with a spatula. When the cream is smooth and frozen, fill a mould with it, put the cover on, and embed it in ice till about to serve ; then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a cold glass dish. Gooseberry-and-Cream Tarts. —Line some small patty-pans with puff paste, and bake them gently in the oven; turn them out when done, half fill them with well-whipped cream,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 704 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. cook them for a few minutes until the cream is firm, put ripe Gooseberries glazed with syrup oyer the top, and serve either warm or cold. See Fig. 867. Gooseberry-and-Curra nt Jam.—(1) Pick off the stalks and tops of 61b. of ripe red Gooseberries and 21b. of red currants, put them into a preserving-pan on the stove, and let them get hot gradually, stirring every now and then to keep them from burning. When the Gooseberries begin to burst, add 61b. of sugar, and stir more frequently, boiling steadily for about thirty or thirty-five minutes, or till a little cooled on a saucer thickens sufficiently. Take the pan from the stove, let the jam cool, and put it into jars. (2) Use perfectly ripe red Gooseberries; pick and put them into a preserving-pan with 1 teacupful of red-currant juice for every 31b. of fruit, and boil over a moderate fire until the fruit is reduced to a pulp, mashing it with a wooden spoon or spatula. Afterwards mix in lib. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar for each pound of fruit, continue stirring, and let it simmer until reduced. Turn the jam into pots, and when it has got quite cold, sift in a small quantity of caster sugar and tie over with egged paper. Gooseberry Pool.— (1) Pick and wipe 2qts. of green Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with fib. of moist sugar, and cook till quite tender; then mash and press them through a coarse sieve. Warm lqt. of milk, add the beaten yolks of two eggs and 1 teacupful of cream, and continue stirring over the fire till the milk is thick, but do not let it boil. Take it off when ready, and let it get cold. Mix more sugar with the Gooseberries, stir them in with the milk, pour the fool on a fancy dish, and serve. A little nutmeg grated over the top and a garnish of sweet biscuits, such as ratafias, is an improvement. See Fig. 868. (2) Cut off the tops and stalks of lqt. of green Gooseberries, put them in a stewpan with a little water, and cook till tender ; then press the pulp through a fine hair sieve. When the pulp has cooled a little, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and sift in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour to thicken it slightly. Boil 1 pint of milk with a little grated lemon-peel, crushed coriander-seeds, and ground cinnamon, and sweeten with moist sugar. Beat the yolks of four eggs, strain the milk, pour it back into the saucepan, add the beaten eggs, and whisk them over the fire till thick, but do not let the mixture boil. When cold, mix it with the pulp of the Gooseberries, pour all into a glass dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve. (3) Put lqt. of unripe Gooseberries into a saucepan with f pint of water, and simmer until they begin to plump and turn yellow; then drain them, press through a fine wire sieve on to a dish, and sweeten the pulp to taste with loaf sugar. Whisk lqt. of thick cream to a stiff froth, flavour it with a wineglassful of brandy and a small quantity of Gooseberries—continued. nutmeg, and when the Gooseberry pulp is cold, pour the cream over it. It is then ready for serving. (4) Put lib. of unripe Gooseberries into a stone jar, together with fib. of sugar and 4 pint of water; cover the jar, stand it in a pan of boiling water over the fire, and stew till the fruit is in a mash; then rub it through a sieve, stir into the pulp another fib. of sugar, and mix with it f pint of cream and f pint of milk. (5) Stew lqt. of green Gooseberries with 2oz. of sugar till very soft, then rub the fruit through a sieve, and mix with the pulp sufficient sugar to sweeten it. Whip into 1 pint of milk, either warm from the cow or warmed over the fire, the beaten yolk of an egg and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and stir it over the fire till it thickens just a little, but do not let it boil. Take it from the fire, and stir it till nearly cold. When quite cold, mix it in with the pulped fruit, and serve. (6) Snip the stalks and tops off lqt. of green Gooseberries, put them in a stone or earthenware jar with plenty of moist sugar, add a small quantity of water, stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and keep it boiling gently until the Gooseberries are tender. When cooked, mash them through a rather coarse sieve, and mix with them 1 pint of thick cream. Put the mixture over ice, and stir it occasionally until very cold, but not frozen; then pile it on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. Gooseberry Jam.— (1) Weigh out 71b. of Gooseberries, wipe them well with a cloth, cut off the stalks, put them into a preserving-pan with 71b. of sugar and 1 pint of water, and boil over a clear fire. When the Gooseberries are soft, re- move the scum that forms at the top, pour them into jam jars, cover them first with paper dipped in brandy and then with bladder or parchment paper, tie down tightly, and keep them in a dry cupboard till wanted for use. (2) Pick over and clean 121b. of small, red, rough Goose- berries, put them in a preserving-pan on the fire, and as they commence to cook, crush them to extract the juice. When all the juice is out, boil for ten minutes, remove from the fire, stir in 41b. of sugar, return to the fire, and boil for two hours, stirring continually. Take a little up in a spoon, and drop it on a plate ; if it jellies, it is sufficiently done. Turn into jars, and cover over when cold. (3) Use freshly gathered, perfectly ripe, large white Goose- berries ; pick off their stalks and ends, put them in a preserving-pan over a moderate fire, and mash them well with a wooden spoon; then put in gradually for each pound of the fruit lib. of sugar, and continue stirring until reduced to the proper consistency. Great care must be taken against letting the jam burn, for should it catch in the least it would bo spoilt. Turn into jars, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) Choose green Gooseberries, take off the tops and stems, wash them, put them into a preserving-pan with f pint of water to each 41b., set on the stove, and let them get a little soft; then to each pound of Gooseberries add lib. of sugar, and boil till a little of the jam dropped on a saucer jellies as it cools. It will require boiling for about three- quarters-of-an-hour, and must be constantly stirred to prevent burning. Then proceed as for No. 1. Gooseberry Jelly.—(1) Pick and wipe the required quantity of ripe Gooseberries, put them in a preserving-pan with a little water to keep them from burning, and let them stew at the side of the fire till they are tender; then mash them, strain the juice through a sieve, and for each pound of it use fib. of crushed loaf sugar. Put it in a stewpan, reduce until it will drop from the spoon in lumps, and turn into jars; tie these over tightly, and keep them in a dry place until wanted for use. (2) Cut the tops and sfalks off some ripe Gooseberries, mash them through a coarse wire sieve, put the pulp in a preserving-pan with a little water, and stir over the fire till boiling; then pass it through a sieve. Measure the juice, and to every pint allow lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Boil the sugar, and when the syrup reaches the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), add the Gooseberry-juice; skim, and boil it till the jelly will coagulate on the spoon. Turn it into jars, cover them with paper, and tie down. (3) Put 31b. of either ripe or unripe Gooseberries in a preserving-pan, pour in 3 pints of water, and boil gently705 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. until done. They must not burst too much. Turn them into a basin, put a plate over, and leave them for twenty-four hours. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag. For every pound of juice allow lib. of crushed loaf sugar, and boil them together for half-an-hour; then skim the jelly well, put half a stick of vanilla into it, and boil it for another half-hour. Turn the jelly into small jars, removing the vanilla, and when cold, tie down. Gooseberries in Jelly. — Pick the stalks and tops off the Gooseberries, pick out the largest ones, and lay them aside; put the smaller Gooseberries into a preserving-pan with water in the proportion of 1 breakfast-cupful to each quart of berries, let them simmer till they go to a pulp, put them into a jelly- bag, and let them drain in a warm place. Put the large Gooseberries into a good-sized saucepan on the stove with cold water to cover them, and simmer gently till tender; then carefully take them out of the water and lay them in a pan of cold water. Measure the juice that has drained through the jelly-bag, and to every breakfast-cupful of juice allow Jib. of sugar; put this sugar and jnice into a preserving- pan, stir till it boils, and boil till clear, taking off the scum as it rises. When the syrup is ready and perfectly Fig. 869. Gooseberries in Jelly. clear, take the large Gooseberries out of the cold water, drain them, put them into the syrup, and boil till they look clear; take out, and put them into a mould shaped like a gigantic half Gooseberry. Keep the syrup on the boil till it jellies. When a little put on a saucer will set it is boiled enough and may be taken from the Are, allowed to cool slightly, and then poured into the mould over the Gooseberries; when quite cold and set, turn the jelly out on to a glass dish, cut a piece of angelica to imitate the stalk and a piece of brown paper for the snuff, put stalk and snuff into their places, and drop whipped cream all round the dish. See Fig. 869. Gooseberry Pancakes.—Put a lump of butter in a frying- pan ; when it is melted, put in lqt. of Gooseberries, previously snipped, and fry gently till tender; then take them out, and mash them in a saucepan. Beat the yolks of six eggs, and whip three whites to a stiff froth ; mix them with 1 teacupful of cream and finely-grated stale breadcrumb and 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, pour them in the saucepan with the Gooseberries, add sugar to taste, and stir over the fire till thick. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, and fry the preparation like pancakes; put them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Gooseberry Pie.—(1) Line the edges of a buttered pie-dish with rich puff paste, fill the dish with cleaned and picked Gooseberries, and put Jib. of moist sugar on them ; pour in a little water, cover the pie with more puff paste, moistening the edges so that they will stick to the under-crust, cut it evenly all round, make a slit in the top with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take it out, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with a good custard. (2) Pick and wipe 31b. of Gooseberries, and put them in a stewpan with 31b. of loaf sugar and enough water to keep them from burning. Cook over a clear fire till they are like a jelly. Make some fancy shapes with puff paste, and bake them ; when done, take them out of the oven, pour in the Gooseberry jelly, and serve with cream or custard. Gooseberry Pudding1. — (1) Pick 1J pints of green Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently until soft but not broken. Drain and mash them through a fine hair sieve, using a wooden spoon. Gooseberries—continued. Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it well together with fib. of caster sugar; then beat in the Gooseberry pulp, eight eggs, and four pounded L'aples biscuits. Pour the mixture when quite smooth into a pie-dish, and bake it for half-an- hour. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Put lqt. of Gooseberries in a saucepan with a little water and some moist sugar, and stew gently till tender. Line a pudding-basin with slices of bread, strain off the juice from the Gooseberries, and put them in the basin ; cover the top with slices of bread, put a cloth over the basin, and let it stand till cold. In the meantime, boil the juice that was strained from the fruit with a little more sugar, and then let it get cold. Turn the pudding out on to a dish, pour the syrup over it, and serve with a custard. (3) Make a puff paste of Jib. of butter, 5oz. of sifted flour, and as little water as possible, and roll it out into a round piece thin in the centre and thicker towards the edges, and just the size to cover a soup-plate; lay the paste over the plate, press it to its shape, trim the edges with a sharp knife, and crimp or notch them. Put the paste into a cold place till the pudding is ready. Wash and pick sufficient green Gooseberries to fill a pint measure when stewed, put them over the fire with very little water (just enough to prevent them burning), and stew till quite soft. Let them get cold, mash with a spoon, and stir into them 2oz. of pow- dered white sugar. Beat 2oz. of butter to a cream together with 2oz. of powdered white sugar. Beat three eggs till very light. Mix with the sweetened Gooseberries 2oz. of sifted breadcrumbs. Now stir into the beaten butter-and-sugar a small quantity of the eggs, and then a small quantity of the Gooseberries-and-breadcrumbs; continue adding and mixing in alternately eggs and Gooseberries till all are mixed in, and stir well for a little longer. Pour the pudding into the soup-plate lined with puff paste, and bake for half-an- hour. Gooseberry Sauce.—(1) Pick lib. of green Gooseberries and put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to keep them from burning; when soft mash them, grate in a little nutmeg, and sweeten to taste with moist sugar. This sauce can be served with roast pork or goose instead of apple sauce. It is also very delectable with boiled mackerel. A small piece of butter makes the sauce much richer. (2) Put lqt. of Gooseberries in a stewpan with just enough water to cover them, and boil till quite tender. Bub them through a strainer or sieve, add sugar to taste, loz. of butter, and 20 grains of ginger. Mix all well together, and boil up again. (3) Pick J pint of green Gooseberries, boil them in water till soft, drain well, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of melted- butter sauce and a little grated lemon-peel. Serve in a sauce-tureen. (4) Pick 1 pint of green Gooseberries, boil them in water till soft, and sweeten with brown sugar. Gooseberry Sauce for Geese.—(1) Pick the tops and stems from 1 pint of green Gooseberries, put them over the fire in a porcelain saucepan, with 1 teaenpful of boiling water and four lumps of white sugar, and stew gently until tender, then rub through a sieve with a masher, and return them to the saucepan. While the Gooseberries are being stewed, pound in a mortar 2 breakfast-cupfuls of spinach or sorrel- leaves, put them in a towel, and wring to extract the juice. Add this juice to the Gooseberry pulp, together with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 wineglassful of Madeira, heat the sauce, and serve at once. (2) Prepare and cook the Gooseberries as for No. 1. Put over the fire in a saucepan 1 piled table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir until smoothly blended, then gradually mix in 1 pint of boiling water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and J saltspoonful of white pepper. Let the sauce boil for a minute, add the Gooseberry pulp to it, and serve. Gooseberry Shape.—Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in 1 teacupful of hot milk. Beat the yolks of three eggs to a cream with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and pour over them 1 pint of boiling milk; turn the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and stir until thick without boiling ; add gradually the dissolved isinglass, and lastly 1 breakfast-cupful of the stewed pulp of green Gooseberries. Take the pan from the fire, and stir the mixture slowly until nearly cold. Pour it into a mould, 3 H706 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes,'Utensils, Sauces, tie., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. pack in ice, and when quite cold and set it is ready to be r turned out and served, either with or without whipped cream. See Fig. 870. Fig. 870. Gooseberry Shape. Gooseberry Souffle.—Scald the required quantity of Goose- berries, sweeten to taste, them pass through a sieve into a tart-dish, and let them get cold. Cover over to 2in. in depth with rich custard, then with the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, piling it in lumps, dust over with caster sugar, and bake in a very slack oven for a few minutes. Gooseberry Tart.—(1) Pick over lqt. of green Gooseberries, removing the tops and stems, wash them in cold water, and drain. Make a good paste and line a deep earthen pie-dish about tin. down the sides; then put in the Goose- berries mixed with 1 teacupful of Sultana raisins and lib. of sugar; cover the tart, wetting the edges of the paste to make them adhere, pressing the finger, slightly curved, all round the top of the tart, just inside the edge of the crust, to form a groove; in this groove make three or four cuts with a small, sharp knife, and then bake the tart until the crust is evenly browned. Serve it hot or cold, with plenty of powdered sugar. Whipped cream may be served with this. (2) Put a flawn-ring on a baking-sheet, lay a thin covering of short-crust over it, and fit it carefully inside the ring; cut it evenly all round the edge, fill the hollow with uncooked rice or flour to keep the paste in its place, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Cut the tops and stalks off the required quantity of Gooseberries, put them in a saucepan, pour in a little water to keep them from burning, and sweeten with moist sugar; when boiling, drain off the syrup, take the Gooseberries out, put the syrup back in the j saucepan, and boil it for ten minutes; then mix in the Gooseberries, turn the whole on to the tart crust, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve. (3) Put li pints of Gooseberries into a basin with 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and mix together. Line a pie-dish with rich paste, spread over this a little apple sauce, and place the Gooseberries on the top of that. Moisten the edge of the tart with beaten egg, put a rim of paste round, brush over with more of the egg, and bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes or so. Take out the tart, sprinkle over powdered sugar, melt or glaze this in the oven, spread over a few ounces of sweet jelly, and serve. Gooseberry Tartlets.—(1) Cut the tops and stalks off the re- quired quantity of green Gooseberries, put them in a saucepan with boiling water, and let them bubble for two or three minutes ; then put them in a basin, sprinkle caster sugar over, and let them cool. Bub fib. of butter in lib. of flour, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt; beat together the yolks of three eggs and a little water, and with them mix the flour to a smooth paste. Line about fifteen buttered tartlet-moulds with the paste, take the Gooseberries out with a skimmer, and put some in the centre of each tart. Put the liquor from the Gooseberries in a saucepan, pour in a little syrup, and reduce till quite thick. When cold, pour a little over each of the tarts, arrange them on a dish, and serve with a little whipped cream on the top of each. (2) Mix 1 pint of ripe Gooseberries in a basin with 2oz. of powdered sugar. Line six fluted tart-moulds with ^lb. of puff paste, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, equally distributed, place the Gooseberries on top, and dust them Gooseberries—continued. over with more sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, then sprinkle the edges with more of the sugar, melt it in the oven for two minutes, take out the tarts, and cool them. Turn them out carefully, cover with a slight coating of apricot or apple jelly, place them on a napkin, and serve. Gooseberry Trifle.—(1) Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, then mix with it the well-beaten whites of two eggs, 1 wineglassful of raisin wine, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Set this in a cool place, and- leave it until the following day. Cut the heads and tails off lqt. of green Gooseberries, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently until tender; then strain and rub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Spread the pulp at the bottom of a dish. Beat the yolks of the two eggs with 1 pint of milk, sweeten with caster sugar, turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until on the point of boiling ; then move it off directly, or the eggs will curdle. When cold, pour the custard over the Gooseberries, cover with the whipped cream, and serve. (2) Snip the tops and stalks off a quantity of Goose- berries, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew them. When tender, pulp the Gooseberries through a fine hair sieve, sweeten to taste, grate in a little nutmeg, and add a small quantity of brandy. Spread the Gooseberry pulp in a thick layer at the bottom of a dish. Put | pint each of milk and cream and the beaten yolk of one egg in a saucepan, and stir over the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil; sweeten with sugar, and leave till cold. Spread the thickened milk and cream over the Goose- berries, using a spoon, cover with whipped cream, and serve. Gooseberry Vinegar. -Select if possible red and green hairy Gooseberries picked when quite ripe; put them into a tub and mash them; then stir in 21b. of lump sugar to each 41b. of Gooseberries, and let them remain for a couple of hours. Now turn all into a preserving-pan, and make the juice quite hot ; then strain it through a jelly-bag into a jar, and mix in 1 pint of plain spirit to each gallon of liquor. Add next an equal quantity of white-wine vinegar, and bottle. Gooseberry Wine.—(1) Pick off the tops and stalks of the Gooseberries, and bruise them in a large crock. For each pound of fruit pour over lqt. of cold water, and leave for three days, stirring two or three times a day. Then strain the liquor, and for every 4galls. mix in 121b. of loaf sugar and a bottle of French brandy. Turn the wine into a barrel that will just hold it, and suspend through the bung-hole a small quantity of isinglass tied up in a piece of muslin. Back the wine in six months’ time, and if the sweetness is suffi- ciently gone, pour it off into bottles, cork tightly, and pack them away in a cool dry cellar. (2) Crush 121b. of Gooseberries in the hands, put them in a tub, pour over 8 breakfast-cupfuls of cold spring water, stir well, and leave for twenty-four hours. Strain into a cask, add 8 breakfast-cupfuls more water, with 41b. of sugar dissolved in it, and leave it for twenty-four hours longer. Skim well, putting the scum into a flannel bag, and returning the liquor that runs from it to the wine. Leave it for two or three days, bung down securely, and bottle off in four months’ time. In drawing off, the sediment must not be disturbed. (3) Spring water should be used if possible. Put 12qts. of it into a saucepan, boil up, and let it get cold; pour it into a large tub over 4qts. of crushed Gooseberries, leave it for two or three days, stirring frequently, strain through a flannel, and add lib. of coarse moist sugar for every gallon of the liquor. Pour it into a cask, put in a piece of toast smeared with yeast, cover over the bung-hole, place the cask in the sun or in a warm temperature, and leave it for several days, giving the cask an occasional shake. It is ready for bottling when clear. (4) Take some fresh-gathered ripe yellow Gooseberries, mash them well in a wooden tub with a wooden pestle, and add to each gallon of Gooseberries lgall. of water; stir well together, and let them stand for three weeks, stirring thoroughly two or three times every day. Strain the liquor through a hair sieve, and to every quart add jib. each of treacle and moist sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of fresh yeast. Beturn the liquor to the tub it was inTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 707 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Gooseberries—continued. before (after it has been well washed), and let it work for three or four days; then run it into an iron-hooped cask, and let it stand twelve months before bottling. Preserved Gooseberries.—(1) Put 51b. of Gooseberries into a preserving-pan with lib. of sugar dusted over them, and set the pan on the fire ; when the juice commences to come out, take off the pan. Repeat this process for two days more ; then take the Gooseberries out of the syrup, drain them on sieves, and place them to dry either before the fire or in the sun, the latter for preference. After being taken out of the pan, they may be dipped in fine sugar and packed away in boxes. (2) Put a layer of rough-skinned dry ripe Gooseberries at the bottom of a preserving-pan, put over a layer of sugar, and continue in this way until sufficient fruit is used. Pour in a little water to moisten, and boil quickly until clear; then take out the fruit, and pack in jars. Boil the syrup until thick, pour it over the fruit, cover over with brandied paper, and then with parchment, and keep in a dry cupboard. (3) Snip the snuffs and stalks off some large green Goose- berries, prick them with a needle in two or three places, and cover with cold water. Place a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, put in the Gooseberries, and when they rise take out and put them in cold water with a little salt mixed in to make them a brighter green. Take out of the cold water, and put them in a preserving-pan with syrup that has been boiled to the small thread degree (see Sugar - boiling), boil them for a few minutes, and skim off the scum that rises. Pour the Gooseberries into another pan, and keep them covered for twenty-four hours. Drain the syrup into the preserving-pan, mix some more syrup with it, and boil to one degree more; then put the fruit in and boil again. This operation must bo performed daily for four or five days, adding a little more syrup each time, which must be boiled one more degree each day till it reaches the large pearl (see Sugar-boiling). When it reaches that degree, do not boil any more, or it would candy the fruit. The scum should be removed as it rises. Turn the fruit into jars, cover them with wet bladder, and tie down. Gooseberries—continued. (see Fig. 871). When cold, oover as for jams, carefully excluding the air. (5) Pick the Gooseberries when the weather is quite dry and they aro full-grown, but not ripe. Cut off the tops and tails, but be v&ry careful that the skin is not broken at all, or they will not keep. Put them into wide-mouthed bottles, cork loosely, put thorn in a slack oven, and leave until shrunk. Afterwards take them out of the oven, fix the corks in tightly, and resin them over. They should be kept in a dry cupboard well secluded from the air. The Goose- berries should be gathered while the seeds are small. GOOSE PUDDING. — In some parts of England, especially in Yorkshire, the people prepare a pudding which they term Goose Pudding, to be served with Goose. It is made in a variety of ways according to means and circumstances, but the following receipt will be found equal to any: Soak four slices of bread until soft in sufficient water to cover them, then drain off the superfluous water, and beat the bread to a pulp with a wooden spoon. Trim off the skin and discoloured parts of 3oz. of beef-suet, and chop it as finely as possible. Mix the suet with the bread, also 3 table- spoonfuls of cooked and finely-chopped onion, J teacupful of milk, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of powdered sage. Mix these ingredients well together, then turn them into a pie-dish, and bake for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. This pudding is generally served hot with roasted Goose. GORGONZOLA CHEESE.—See Cheese. GOTHAM PUDDING.—See Puddings. GOTHIC SAUCE.—See Sauces. GOURAMI.—Au East Indian fresh-water fish (Osphro- menus gorami), which is reared in private fish-ponds in tropical countries and used extensively as a food. It grows to a prodigious size, and often weighs more than a hundred pounds. All efforts to introduce this fish into English water have hitherto proved unsuccessful. Fig. 871. Preserved Gooseberries (Whole Fruit). (4) The Gooseberries must be quite sound and ripe. Pick the stalks and tops off, wash and dry them, then weigh, and to each pound of Gooseberries allow lib. of sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, adding for every pound 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil till clear, taking off the scum as it rises; then put the Gooseberries into an earthenware bowl, and pour tho boiling syrup over them, laying a plate on the Gooseberries to keep them under the syrup, and letting them stand all night. In the morning, empty the bowl of Gooseberries and syrup into a preserving- pan, set it on the stove, and let it boil gently till the Goose- berries look clear; then take the pan off the stove, let it cool a little, and turn tho preserve into large glass jars GOURDS. —This is the name given to a very ex- tensive tribe (Cucurbita) of fruit, which numbers in its ranks some of the most delicious, largest, and most useful natural growths in existence. Cucumbers, melons, pump- kins, and vegetable marrows are all Gourds; and so, too, are others which, when emptied of their seeds and pulp, scraped and dried, form cups, bowls, spoons, and other useful vessels, and the natives of the places where they are grown expend much time and labour in carving and painting them with elaborate devices. Gourds may be classed as those which are edible and those which are not, the former class being described under their various headings. The growing tops of all edible Gourds form a capital vegetable when boiled, pressed, and served with lemon-juice and butter. GOURMANDS and GOURMETS. — For conve- nience sake these two words are grouped together, not because they by any means correspond in their modern signification, but because they are in a sense antitheses and yet boast of a common parent—the love of eating and drinking. Gourmands are literally gormandisers, or gluttons; Gourmets, on the other hand, are epicures and refined judges of good eating and drinking. Gourmets are gentlemen as compared with Gourmands, and this difference is more correct than at first sight appears, especially as by the ignorant the two terms are frequently confounded. Gourmands derive their appellation from the provincial French gourmer—to sip or lap up, the first syllable having for its progenitor the Icelandic gormr—mud, mire. In some parts of this country the term gorm is used for to smear. Gourmet, on the other hand, is sup- posed to be the diminutive of groom—the r having met with a not uncommon transposition. “ The word,” saysTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 708 For details respect-inn Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Gourmands and Gourmets—continued. Kettner, “ is really a diminutive of groom—a young man, a lad. In its broadest sense it survives in bridegroom. It is peculiarly applied to the young man who looks after horses; and gromet, or grummet is an old sailor’s word for a cabin-boy. In French the word was transposed to gourme, the diminutive being Gourmet—a lad in general, then the wine-merchant’s lad, then a wine-taster, next a good judge of wine, whether professional or not, and lastly anyone with a fine taste and delicate in his feeding.” GOURMET’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. GOURMET’S SOUP.—.See Soups. GRAHAM-FLOUR.—This is a kind of flour that has not been “ bolted,” or passed through a refining sieve after grinding. It is named after one Sylvester Graham, a lecturer on dietetics in America, who argued that the most nutritious part of the wheat was removed by bolting, and others have believed so to this day, preferring coarse-ground, unbolted meal to flour, either for bread-making or any other purpose where nutrition is of consequence. Being somewhat more difficult of digestion than fine flour, it has not met in this country with the favour that it has in the United States. Graham-Flour Bread.—See Bread. Graham-Flour Cakes.—Mix some Graham-Flour with boiling milk to form a light paste, add a little salt, and roll it out about fin. thick; cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter, and bake in a hot oven for ten or twelve minutes. If the oven is not hot, the cakes will be heavy. Graham-Flour Crackers. —Mix in lqt. of Graham-Flour 1 breakfast-cupful of Indian-meal and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and stir in sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Boll this out very thin, cut it into squares, and lay them on a baking-sheet; dock them, and bake in a quick oven. The crackers may be sweetened if desired. Graham-Flour Gems. — (1) Put i saltspoonful of salt into 1 pint of water, mix smoothly into it sufficient Graham-Flour to make a stiff batter, add jib. of molasses and 2 table- spoonfuls of the best yeast, and let it stand till it has risen Fig. 872. Graham-Flour Gems. well and is quite light; then put the batter into muffin- rings, and bake in a quick oven. Break them open (see A, Fig. 872), butter, quarter, and serve hot (b), with a cover (c) over. (2) Break six eggs, and stir them till yolks and whites are mixed together, but do not beat them ; then mix in 3 pints of lukewarm milk, and stir in Graham-Flour, adding it 1 spoonful at a time, till it is of a sufficiently thick consis- tence ; then mix in nearly ^lb. of butter warmed very soft and 1 heaped saltspoonful of salt. Continue to beat the batter hard for some time. Bake, and serve as for No. 1. (3) Mix .together pints of milk with enough Graham- Flour to make a batter (warm the milk before mixing the flour with it, but it should not be hotter than lukewarm) ; then mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, loz. of butter warmed very soft, and three well- beaten eggs. Pour the batter into heated muffin-rings. Bake, and serve as for No. 1. Graham-Flour—continued. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Graham-Flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of sugar and l- teaspoonful 'of salt. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of milk ; then stir it gradually into the flour, &c., also 1 breakfast-cupful of water, mixing the whole to a smooth paste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients. Butter some gem-pans, fill them with the mixture, put into a very hot oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the gems out of the tins, and place them on a dish. Graham-Flour Griddle Cakes.—Mix 1 pint of milk, scalded and cooled, with 1 breakfast-cupful each of Graham-Flour and wheat-flour and I breakfast-cupful of liquid yeast. Set this to rise overnight. In the morning-, add % teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of molasses, and I saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. If too thick, add a little warm water. Form the paste into cakes, and cook them on a griddle. These are considered more wholesome than buckwheat cakes. Graham-Flour Muffins.—See Muffins. Graham-Flour Mush.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Graham- Flour in a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and form it into a smooth paste with a small quantity of cold water; then mix in gradually nearly lqt. of boiling water. Turn the whole into a saucepan, and boil it for twenty minutes, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. When cooked, turn the mush on to a dish, and serve it with cream and sugar. Graham-Flour Soup.—Wash and trim one head of celery, scrape three carrots, and peel three onions and four turnips ; chop these, put them in a saucepan over the fire with 3qts. of water, and let them simmer. Parboil a small head of cabbage in water in which a piece of common soda the size of a pea has been dissolved, then chop it fine, and when the other vegetables have simmered for half-an-hour add it to them. Let all simmer for a-quarter-of-an-liour longer, add 1 pint of stewed tomatoes and a small bunch of sweet herbs, and let the whole boil hard for twenty minutes. Strain it through a colander, put the soup into the pan again, stir in loz. of butter and 1 teacupful of milk thickened with Graham-Flour, and sprinkle in pepper and salt to taste. Let it boil up, and it is ready to serve. Graham-Flour Wafers.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of wheat and Graham-Flour into a basin, and rub 1| teacup- fuls of butter in it. IVhen quite smooth, add 1 saltspoonful of salt and f breakfast-cupful of sugar, stirring in g-radually sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Sprinkle some flour over the table, place the dough on it, roll it out very thin, and then cut it into squares. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the squares of dough on it, and bake them in a quick oven. Graham-Flour Waffles.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat- flour in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of Graham-Flour. Mix § breakfast-cupful of yeast in 1 pint of milk, then stir it gradually in the flours, mixing till quite smooth. Beat the yolks of two eggs, mix them in the batter, then add the well-whisked whites, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, also 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter. Let the mixture stand for several hours. Heat some waffle-irons and grease them, placing sufficient of the mixture in each of the compartments to about two-thirds fill them ; cover, and cook for one minute on one side, then turn and cook a little longer on the other. Serve the waffles with butter while hot. GRAINS OF PARADISE.—These are also known as “ Guinea grains,” “ Malaguetta pepper,” and other names. They are the seed of the Amomurn Melegueta, an African plant of the ginger family. They are hot, acid, and aromatic, and in other properties somewhat similar to other peppers. In some parts of the world they are used as a condiment, but are chiefly used in this country to give a fictitious taste of alcoholic strength to wine, beer, spirits, and vinegar. GRAND CHAMPAGNE. — The name given to the finest Cognac, or Eau de Vie Superieuse.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 709 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. GRANDS VINS.—The first class of French wines, as compared with (2) Yins Fins, (3) Yins Ordinaires, (4) Yins Communs. See Wines. GRANITO.—The name given to an iced drink com- posed of fruit juices mixed with syrup, and also to various kinds of punch. Coffee Grand to is a great favourite, and so also are those compounded with lemonade, orangeade, and orgeat. Italians are very fond of them, and consume them freely in hot weather. At balls and evening parties they will be found piost welcome. Receipts for them will be found under certain special headings, but the only instruction necessary beyond that which taste will dictate is to have the juice quite clear, and thoroughly sweetened. Other flavourings are added at discretion. GRAPES (Fr. Raisins; Ger. Weinbeeren; Ital. Uve; Sp. Uvas).—The French for a bunch of Grapes is Une Grappe de Raisin, hence we have our word Grape; the word vine having its origin in the Latin vinum—wine. Although in the strict sense of the word Great Britain cannot be called a Grape-growing country, it is admitted that, under cultivation in our hothouses, there is no country in the world which produces such splendid and luscious fruit. The chief of these are grown for dessert purposes, our hothouse supplies being insufficient for wine-making, and too good into the bargain. Fig. 873. Black Hamburgh Grapes. According to Nicholson in the “ Dictionary of Garden- ing,” “ records of the cultivation of the Grape, and of the making of wine in Egypt, go back 5000 to 6000 years. The introduction of the vine into this country is generally credited to the Romans, in the reign of the Emperor Augustus, about a.d. 10. Vineyards existed in England at a very early period of our history. They are mentioned in the ‘ Domesday Book ’ and also by Bede, who wrote in a.d. 731. The Isle of Ely was called the Isle of Vines by the Normans, the Bishop of Ely, shortly after the Conquest, receiving as tithes wine made from the vines grown in his diocese. In the reign of Henry III. we read of vineyards. Malmesbury mentions the county of Gloucester as being, in his time, very rich in vineyards; and there still remain traces of them at Tortworth. The first Earl of Salisbury planted a vineyard at Hatfield, which is noted as being in existence when Charles I. was I Grapes—continued. taken there as a prisoner. There are records of vine- yards existing in various parts of Surrey, and a notable one, which is still partly in existence, once flourished at Bury St. Edmunds. Vineyards seem to have been com- mon to all monastic establishments; but the suppression of the latter, and, subsequently, the fact of cheap foreign wines becoming more easily accessible, led, no doubt, to neglect in Grape cultivation.” The following are the principal Grapes grown in this country: Black.—Alicante, Alnwick Seedling-, Black Hamburgh (see Fig.- 873), Black Morocco, Gros Cohnan, Gros Guillaume (sometimes known as Barbarossa), Gros Maroc, Lady Downes, Madresfield Court, Mill Hill Hamburgh, Mrs. Pince, Muscat Hamburgh, and Trentham Black. White. — Buckland Sweetwater, Cannon Hall Muscat, Duchess of Buccleuc.h, Duke of Buccleucb, Foster’s Seed- ling, Golden Queen, Muscat of Alexandria, Trebbiano, White Frontignan, and White Tokay. Kettner observes that it is strange that the Grape is of no use in cookery, save in the form of raisins, wine, vinegar, and verjuice. In its natural condition it is nothing save when an occasional Grape appears in a macedoine or medley of fruits. Whether Grapes are useful for culinary purposes or not, will be seen by the following receipts. For dessert there is no fruit so much valued for its quality, appearance, and flavour. See Currants (Grocers’), Raisins, Wines, &c. Compote of Grapes.—(1) Cut the stalks off a bunch or two of fine Grapes, make a little slit in the side, and pick out the stones with the point of a quill. Boil some syrup to the large pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling), put in the Grapes, and boil them up three or four times. When cold, skim off any SGum that may have risen to the top, arrange the Grapes in a compote-dish, and serve. (2) Select some of the finest of either black or white Grapes, pick the stems off carefully, so as not to tear the fruit, then drop them one by one into hot syrup of 22deg. (see Sugar-boiling), and let them simmer, without boiling. Pour them carefully into a basin, and when cold arrange them like a pyramid in the middle of a compote-dish, and pour the syrup round. This makes a very pretty dish for dessert. See Fig. 874. (3) Pick about 31b. of unripe green Grapes, put them into a preserving-pan with 2qts. of water, set it over a very slow fire, and leave till the verjuice turns a yellowish hue. The water must not even simmer. Take the Grapes carefully out with a skimmer, and drop them into a pan of cold water. When cool, open the Grapes carefully with a sharp-pointed knife, and pick out the seeds; put the Grapes in the preserving- pan containing the water in which they have been scalded, stand the pan over a slow smothered fire, and leave them till they resume their green colour again. Take the pan off the fire, set it in a cool place, cover the Grapes with vine- leaves,. and leave them till the following day. Drain the Grapes on a sieve, put them in a pan with some thin syrup, and simmer for a minute or two; then cover them with more vine-leaves, and set the pan aside till the following day. When ready, arrange the Grapes in a compote-dish in the form of an elevated cone, pour some of the syrup round the base, and serve. Frosted Grapes.—Dip the required quantity of bunches of Grapes into the white of an egg, and dust them well withTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 710 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Grapes—continued. caster sugar; if any are overcharged, blow it off. Hang 1 them up over a sheet of paper in a dry closet or screen, I and leave until the sugar is firm. Place them on a glass dish, and serve. See Fig. 875. Fig. 875. Frosted Grapes. Grape Drink.—Pick 41b. of Grapes from their stalks, bruise them, and squeeze well in a straining-cloth. When all the juice is squeezed out stir into it 6oz. of white sugar, and when this is quite melted add 1 pint of cold water. Let it stand in ice till very cold. Put a lump of ice into a large glass jug, pour the mixture over it, and serve. Grapes Glazed with Caramel.—Select some bunches of white and purple Grapes, divide them into small clusters of four or five on each, dip into boiling syrup, and let them drain till cold. Arrange in a dish, and serve. Grapes Glazed with Sugar.—Boil some syrup as for candy- ing (see Syrups) with the addition of teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Divide a few bunches of Grapes into clusters, dip them into the candy, and lay them till dry on dishes slightly greased. Grape Ice.—(1) Pick some ripe Grapes from their stalks and rub them through a sieve ; then mix with them some strained lemon-juice, and add sufficient powdered white sugar to sweeten ; when the sugar is quite dissolved and thoroughly mixed with the juice, pour it into a mould, put it into a refrigerator, and freeze. (2) Out of 41b. of fine ripe Grapes pick about lib. of the finest, and mash the rest. Make a syrup with ljlb. of sugar to 1 pint of water (see Syrups), and pour it while hot over the mashed Grapes; rub the pulp through a strainer, and pour a little water over the skins while pressing; add the juice of one lemon and one orange, then pour the prepara- tion into the freezer and freeze. Beat the whites of four eggs very firm, and when the ice is nearly frozen mix them with it, also the raw Grapes, and finish freezing. Grape Jam.—(1) Procure the required quantity of ripe Grapes, free them from the stalks, and wipe them over with a damp cloth to remove any impurities; then put them into a pre- serving-pan, and stew over a gentle fire until reduced to a soft pulp. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, weigh it, and return it to the preserving-pan with an equal quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Stir the jam over the fire, and boil it for about twenty minutes longer. When ready, turn the jam into jars, leave it until cold, then put into each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, and tie down. Keep in a dry store cupboard. (2) Pick over some green Grapes carefully, throwing away any that aro injured, dip them in a little warm water, and wipe them. Put them in layers in a preserving-pan with sugar over each layer, allowing fib. of sugar to lib. of fruit. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and stir the contents continually to keep them from burning; skim off the Grape- stones as they rise to the top. When boiled to the consistency of jam, turn it into jars, and tie them down when cold. (3) Peel and stone 61b. of green Grapes, put them into a sugar-boiler with 61b. of sugar boiled to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), and let them boil gently for a little while; remove from the fire, take off all the scum, pour the preserve into pots, cover them when cold, and put away until wanted. Grape Jelly.—(1) Pick off the stems and put the Grapes into a large stone jar, stand the jar in a saucepan of warm water Grapes—continued. over the fire, lot the water come gradually to the boil, and keep it boiling till the juice flows freely from the fruit, stir- ring it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When the juice is out of the skins, empty the jar into a jelly-bag, and let the juice drip through without squeezing the bag. To every quart of juice add lj-lb. of loaf sugai-, broken small, and let it dissolve in the juice; then put it over the fire in a pre- serving-pan, and boil till clear, skimming off all scum as it rises. Take from the fire, let it cool a little, put it into jars, and when.quite cold cover air-tight. (2) Pick green or ripe Grapes off the stalks, put them in a pan, and stew gently until they can be bruised; then pass them through a jelly-bag. Return the liquid to the pan, mix with it an equal quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil until reduced to a jelly, removing any scum that may rise to the top. When sufficiently boiled, turn the jelly into small glass jars, cover, and tie down. (3) Pick some ripe Grapes from their stalks, mash them a little with a spoon, put them in a preserving-pan over the fire, cover the pan, and lot the Grapes boil for ten minutes; then put them into a jelly-bag, and squeeze out the juice. Put the juice in a preserving-pan over the fire, adding at the same time lib. of loaf sugar to evei’y pint of juice, and keep stirring till the sugar is quite melted and it comes to the boil; let it boil for twenty minutes, skimming off all the scum as it rises. Remove the pan from the fire, let the jelly cool a little, and put it into glasses. When quite cold, lay over the jelly in each jar a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the jars air-tight. Grapes in Jelly.—Pour a little warmed sweet jelly into an ornamental mould packed in ice, decorate it with muscatel Grapes, pour in a little more jolly, then add more Grapes, Fig. 876. Grapes in Jelly. and continue in this way until the mould is full, finishing with jelly, and allowing one layer to set before another is added. Turn it out on to a dish when ready, and serve. See Fig. 876. Grape Pudding. — Butter an earthen baking-disli and fill it with alternate layers of ripe Grapes, sugar, and stale bread- crumbs, making the top layer of crumbs. Bake it in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, and serve hot with powdered sugar. Grape Ratafia. — Pick from their stalks some fine Grapes, bruise them, and squeeze through a cloth to get all the juice from them ; add to each pint of juice lOoz. of sugar and 1 pint of brandy, and allow the sugar to dissolve in the juice before adding the brandy; put in some cinnamon to flavour it, then cover the liquor, and let it stand for fifteen days. Strain it, and bottle. Grape Trifle.—Pick the Grapes off their stalks, put them in a basin, dust over plentifully with caster sugar, and put by for a few hours; then pass them through a very fine sieve so as to keep back all the stones. Flavour with curacoa sufficient thick cream to cover the Grapes, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; whip it vigorously with an egg-whisk, skim off the froth as it rises to the top, and plaoe it on a fine sieve to drain. When all the cream is frothed, put the Grape pulp on to a glass dish, pile the cream high on the top, and serve. Grape Wine.—(1) Gather the Grapes when quite ripe. Remove the stalks and crush the fruit, but take care not to crush the stones as they will impart an unpleasant flavour. Squeeze the mass through a ooarse cloth, and to every gallon of juiceTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 711 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under tlieir special heads, Grapes—continued. mix in 31b. of moist sugar ; then pour it into a vessel, and keep in a temperature of 60deg. When fermentation com- mences, pour the wine into a cask. If the fermentation is scarcely perceptible before the wine is turned into the cask, mix a small quantity of yeast with it. When fermentation has ceased, clear away all impurities from around the bung- hole, fill up the cask, and drive the bung in tightly. The vent-peg should be put in loosely for a few days to allow the carbonic-aeid gas to escape. When the hissing noise has stopped, drive the peg in tightly. In about six months’ time the wine may be drawn off and bottled. A lump of sugar put into each bottle makes the wine sparkle. (2) The Grapes should be gathered when full grown and beginning to change colour. Bruise them in a tub, pour in lqt. of water to every quart of Grapes, and leave for three days, stirring each day; then pass the liquor and the fruit through a coarse cloth. Let it stand until settled, then pour it carefully off the sediment, and mix with it 31b. of loaf sugar for every gallon of juice. Pour it into a cask and leave until it has finished working (it will take about three weeks). Dissolve in a little of the liquor foz. of isinglass for every 5galls. of the wine, mix it with the wine, and stir every day for three days; then pour in 1 pint of brandy to every 2Jgalls. In about four days bung the cask down tightly, and leave it untouched for six months, when it may be drawn off into bottles and corked securely. Green Grape Sauce.—Scald about 1 breakfast-cupful of sour Grapes, and remove the stones. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a very small quantity of flour, a small piece of butter, 1 teaspoonful or so of finely-chopped parsley, and a good seasoning of cayenne ; turn all into a saucepan with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and boil for a minute; then put in the Grape pulp, and warm without boiling, stirring continually, wheu it will be ready for use. It should have a very sharp taste, and be highly seasoned. Pickled Grapes.—(1) Cut into small bunches large but not ripe Grapes, and fill a stone jar with them, putting vine- leaves between the bunches ; dissolve lib. of bay-salt and a little common salt in lqt. of cold water, put it into a copper pan, boil it, and remove the scum as it rises to the top. When it has boiled for a-quarter-of-an-liour, let it stand till cool. Pour the liquor over the Grapes, put more vine-leaves on the top, and tie down with a folded linen cloth. Boil 2qts. of vinegar together with lqt. of water and lib. of brown sugar for a few minutes, skim, and let it stand till quite cold; strain the Grapes. Dry the jar,eput fresh vine-leaves at the bottom, between the layers of the Grapes, and on the top, and pour the clear pickle over all. Tie a thin piece of board in a piece of flannel, lay it on the top of the jar, cover it with bladder and then with leather, and tie it down tightly. (2) Select 51b. of Grapes, not too ripe. Boil lqt. of vinegar in a pan with 21b. of brown sugar; in ten minutes put in the Grapes, and simmer for half-an-hour. Strain the Grapes, place them in a jar, and put the syrup in the pan again with 1 table-spoonful of mixed cloves, allspice, and mace, tied up in a piece of muslin; boil for ten minutes, then pour it over the Grapes in the jar. In two days strain off the syrup, boil it again for ten minutes, then pour it over the Grapes. Cover the jar with bladder, tie it down, and keep in a cold dry place. (3) Pick out the best from several bunches of black and white Grapes. Squeeze the bruised ones, pass the juice through a fine hair sieve into a perfectly clean stewpan, and boil for a few minutes. Wash the selected bunches, lay two or three of them in a jar, sprinkle over some mustard-seed, then put in more Grapes, then seed, and so on until all are used; pour the boiled juice over them, and cover the jar tightly to exclude the air. In a month the Grapes will be fit for use. They will have an agreeable acid taste, will be found very refreshing, and keep for a consider- able time. Preserved Grapes.—(1) The Grapes must be ripe and quite sound. Pick the stalks from the fruit, and weigh it, to every pound of Grapes allowing lib. of sugar. Squeeze the pulp out of the skins, putting the pulp into one bowl and the skins into another. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with Grapes—continued. 1 breakfast-cupful of water to each pound, and let it boil till clear, taking the scum off as it rises. When it !is quite clear put the pulp of the Grapes into it, and boil for two minutes ; then turn it out into a hair sieve, and rub it through with the back of a wooden spoon to get the pips out. Put it back into the preserving-pan without the pips, add the skins, and boil for two or three minutes, or till the skins fill and look plump ; then let it cool, and put it into jars, covering so as to keep out the air. (2) Select close and not over-ripe bunches of Grapes, lay them in a jar, sprinkling over a good supply of crushed white sugar-candy, fill up the jar with brandy, tie down tightly, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted. Before the Grapes are put in the jar, each one should have three or four small holes made in it. In this way Grapes can be kept from autumn until after Christmas, and will form an excellent dessert-dish. (3) Pick the stalks from 61b. of unripe green Grapes, put the Grapes in a preserving-pan with 4qts. of water, and stand the pan over a slow fire, but do not let the water simmer; when the Grapes turn yellow take them out with a skimmer, and put them into a basin of cold water; when cool, slit them slightly with the point of a sharp knife, then pick out the seeds with the point of a quill, dropping each Grape as it is done into the pan containing the water in which they were scalded. Set this pan over a very slow fire, and let the Grapes heat gently, so that they may become green again. Take the Grapes out, put them in a cool place, and cover with vine-leaves. On the following day boil some syrup, made with 51b. of sugar, to 22deg. (see Sugar-boiling) ; drain the juice of the Grapes (verjuice), mix it with the syrup, put in the Grapes, and simmer; take the pan off, cover it with vino-leaves, and let it remain till the next day. Put the pan over the fire, let the contents simmer again, take out the Grapes, drain, and put them into jars or bottles; boil the syrup to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), skim it, pour it over the Grapes, and let them stand till cold; then cover the jars with bladder, and tie down tightly. Grapes pre- served in this way are generally used for decorating pastry and confectionery. (4) Swiss Style.—Arrange several lines of pack-thread or fine string not far from the oeiling of a cool room. Cut off the bunches of Grapes before they are quite ripe, remove all the unsound ones, taking care that their juice does not touch the others, seal the ends of the stalks with beeswax to prevent them drying, and hang up the bunohes on the thread. In this way they will keep for several months. GRAPE - FRUIT . — See Shaddock. GRATERS.—A very useful, almost indispensable, article for kitchen use is the Grater, espe- cially one of those which combines two or more varieties in one (see Fig. 877), such as a large coarse grain for bread and cheese, and a finer grain for nutmeg, ginger, and other spices. Some other varieties of Graters are manu- factured, all acting more or less upon the same principle; but that shown in the illustration is inex- pensive, and answers every pur- pose that can be required of it. GRATES.—See Stoves and Ranges. GRATIN.—The literal signi- fication of this French word is the scraping of a dish or saucepan, and therefore the culi- nary term “ au Gratin ” is applied to certain dishes which admit of tasty morsels being scraped from the dish. In Kettner’s description of au Gratin this peculiarity is entirely lost sight of, and the au Gratin is considered to apply to grated breadcrumbs. Fig. 877. Combination Grater.712 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Gratin—continued. To cook anything an Gratin properly requires a shallow metal dish (see Fig. 878). These dishes differ sometimes in shape and ornament, but all answer the same purpose of promoting the “ Gratin ” better than earthenware or glass. Several receipts will be found scattered through this Encyclopaedia. GRATZER BEER.—The name given to a German white beer brewed at Gratzer from wheat-malt. This beer is fit to drink within two or three days of brewing, and remains good for some years. GRAVIES.—The literal meaning of Gravy is the sediment of that which drains from cooked meat; that is, the juice of the meat, which being heavier than the hot fat sinks to the bottom, just as greaves, which word has the same origin, sinks to the bottom of tallow when being melted for manufacturing purposes. The French term for Gravy is jus, so that meat served au jus is served with its own Gravy, and not with a made sauce. As the inclination of the French cook is generally towards some rectification or elaboration of plain foods, they are very much inclined to operate upon plain Gravies; to them it seems as though to serve plain Gravy or meat-juice with a dish, whether a roasted joint or ragout, would be desecrating, by neglect, the fine art of cooking; to obviate such a culinary error, and yet use that which must be acknowledged to be the legitimate sauce of the meat, its own juice, they have instituted a jus lie, which means thickened juice, or Gravy combined with something to make it stronger. When roasting meat, the dripping-pan catches the juice and fat that exudes in the process, and when the meat is cooked the plain cook pours off the fat from the dripping, carefully leaving the juice. To this pepper and salt are added, and as much hot water as the juice will bear without impoverishing the Gravy too much. The tin is then stood over the stove until the water or Gravies—continued. Gravy is boiling hot, stirring with a fork or knife until the juice is taken up in the water. This is poured over the meat through a conical (see Fig. 879) or flat (see Fig. 880) Gravy-strainer. Some meats, such as veal and lamb, and sometimes mutton, yield vei-y little juice, or juice of a very light colour only, it is then usual to add to the Gravy a little colouring, and for this purpose burnt.sugar is generally used; but the cook’s art is extended also to colouring Gravies, and so we find a variety of preparations with which a little flavouring is also combined, such as a taste of onion, shallot, or garlic. Some of these will be found described under the head of Browning.; and others, such as Tomlinson and Hayward’s Granular Browning, King and Co.’s Gravina, the latter named being said to contain also a proportion of dried meat juice, thus giving richness and colour at the same time, will be found useful and reliable, as well as the following : Colourings for Gravies. —(1) Put a little burnt Spanish onion into a basin, pour some boiling water over it, and work it with a spoon. Put it into the Gravy, and boil up together. This gives a decided flavour to the Gravy. (2) A simple method is to put an old iron spoon in the fire and make it very hot, and then a little moist sugar dropped into it gives a caramel that only requires to be mixed in the Gravy to give the latter any tinge of brown desired. (3) Baked raspings from bread thicken and brown all kinds of Gravies, but will not colour satisfactorily without thickening. (4) A little flour baked until quite brown in a tin dish is a colouring that can always be kept ready for use, but has the same objection to its general use as bread raspings have. (5) Put lib. of raw sugar into a frying'-pan (an old one is generally used for this purpose), place the pan over the fire, and stir until the sugar is dissolved, taking care that when it browns it does not boil over; then add lj- pints of water, mix well, and boil it up. Take it from the fire, and when cold put it into jars or bottles. A few drops will be sufficient for colouring any Gravy. A very important feature of Gravy-making is to have at hand a good base or stock, in case of its being required. The following will be found to answer all such purposes: Gravy-Stock. — Put lib. of minced beef (lean) into a flat stewpan, put the cover on, and toss the pan over the fire until the meat is browned. Pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of hot water, and let this boil until half of the liquor has evaporated; then pour in another J pint of water, and add a thick slice of lean ham, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ground mice, and salt to taste. Let this boil until the liquor is again reduced to less than 5 pint, then pass the liquor through a strainer, or squeeze it in a broth-napkin, and when all the liquor possible is squeezed out set it away to cool. There should not be any fat, but if there doesTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gravies—continued. Gravies—continued. happen to be any it will collect and harden at the top. This Gravy stock is useful at all times for making Gravy at a minute’s notice. It is almost impossible to draw a distinctive line necessity to the useful application of the following receipts, and that adopted here is “ Plain Gravies,” “Gravies made without Meat (an maigre),”“Thick Gravies (Jus lies),” which are almost sauces, and “ Gravies for Special Purposes.” Several receipts are given hereunder for making a large variety of Gravies, plain, thickened, and compounded, and their application, unless specified, can be left to the taste of the cook, provided it be first remembered that the meat from which the Gravy is made is the kind of meat with which it should be served. See Sauces. Plain Gravies. — The following receipts embrace some of the simplest and best modes known to cooks of preparing Gravy : (1) Put lib. each of veal and gravy-beef into a stewpan with a slice of ham, one clove, one onion, some celery, 1 liqueur-glassful of sherry, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little grated lemon-peel, and sufficient water to cover them all; put on the lid, place the pan on the fire, and boil the contents until they are nearly dry, turning the meat frequently; next add 1^ pints of boiling water, and boil for two hours longer;, then skim and strain it. Rub loz. of butter into loz. of flour, put in a little Gravy to moisten it, and add this to the Gravy. Place the pan by the side of the fire, and simmer for thirty minutes. Remove it from the fire, skim the liquor, and pour it through a conical strainer. A good Gravy for any purpose. (2) Add a little water to the Gravy that has dropped from the meat when being cooked, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of butter and ^ table-spoonful of flour. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, boil up for a few minutes (sufficiently long to cook and brown the flour), strain, and it is ready for use. (3) Put a layer of bacon cut in thick slices at the bottom of a saucepan, then four large onions cut in halves on the top of them, and cover with a few slices of beef; add stock to half the height of the meat, and put the pan on the side of the fire. When the liquor has reduced, put a knife into the meat to let out all its juice. Continue to simmer until the liquor is a light brown coloirr, taking care not to let it brown. Add a little more broth if necessary, a bunch each of green onions and parsley, a peppercorn or two, and a pinch of salt. Boil for one hour longer, skim off the fat, strain, and it is then ready to serve with almost any meat or roasted birds. (4) Remove the bones from 2ib. of lean fillet or leg of veal, tie it up with string, and put it into a saucepan with £ pint of water; place the pan on a slow fire, and reduce the liquor gradually until a lig'ht brown glaze forms at the bottom of the pan. Turn the veal about so that it may be coloured evenly all over, and add 3 pints of water, a faggot of sweet herbs, about ^lb. each of carrots and onions (the latter stuck with two cloves), foz. of salt, and a little pepper. When it begins to boil, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour. If it is allowed to boil con- tinuously it will not turn out clear. Pass it through a sieve, remove the fat, and it is ready for use. Should it be required to set as a jelly, before it commences to boil a calf’s foot will have to be added, and at the end of an hour’s cooking the veal must be removed and the liquor boiled until the calf’s foot is quite tender, then strain it, and put it away in jars in a cool place to set. (5) Put some bones cut from a piece of streaky bacon in a saucepan and fry them to a light brown, add a few chopped onions, also fried to a brown colour, and a young turnip cut in small pieces ; pour in 1 pint of water or stock, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain it well, remove all the fat, and it is ready for use. (6) Cut into small pieces 21b. of lean shin of beef, lib. of veal, and 31b. of scrag of mutton ; put the beef into a sauce- pan, then the mutton, cover these over with slices of fat bacon, add a carrot and onion cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and a little black pepper, and cover with the veal. Place the lid on the saucepan, and toss it gently over the fire for a few minutes. Sprinkle over a little flour, pour in sufficient water to cover, and cook gently, with the lid on, for about three hours. Strain and skim it, and it is ready for use. (7) Cut a piece of beef taken from any part except the shin or leg into pieces, put it in a frying-pan, and fry to a light brown. For every pound of meat used put two chopped onions into a frying-pan, and fry them also. Put both of these in a saucepan with lqt. of water, a few pepper- corns, 0 teaspoonful of salt, and 2oz. of ham, and boil for two hours. Remove the scum as it rises, and when it is reduced to one-half its original quantity strain, skim off the fat, and thicken with 1 teaspoonful each of wheat-flour and potato-flour made into a smooth paste with a little stock or water for each pint of Gravy; boil for a few minutes longer, and it will be ready for use. (8) Put 6oz. of lean bacon or ham cut into small pieces in a saucepan with a small quantity of butter, brown them, and add 21b. of shin of beef, also cut up small, dredged over with flour and pepper, and slightly fried. Brown an onion and two shallots in a little butter, place them on top of the meat, pour over 5 pints of water, and bring the liquor gently to the boil. Take off all the scum, add two or three dozen peppercorns, five or six cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, half a head of celery cut in pieces, an onion cut in slices, and salt to taste. Place the saucepan on the fire, and boil gently until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity ; strain it, let it get quite cold, take off the fat, and when wanted for use add, while warming it, 1 table-spoonful each of capsicum vinegar, and mushroom ketchup, and a little butter well kneaded with flour. (9) Cut up into small pieces 41b. of leg of beef and the same of veal taken from the shoulder or scrag of the neck, and put them in a saucepan with a little clarified skimmings from broth, called “toppings,” and place the pan on the fire, stirring frequently; when the meats are set, add £ pint of white wine, and reduce to a glaze. Now add from 7qts. to 8qts. of hot broth, skim frequently, and as soon as it begins to boil remove the pan to the side of the fire; add a few bones from any roasted meat, a few vegetables cut up, and a bunch of parsley garnished with chervil and sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns and cloves. A little coriander and cinnamon may also be used if desired. When all the meat is done and quite tender remove it with a skimmer, take off the fat from the Gravy, pass the latter through a sieve, and it is ready for use. (10) Cut 21b. of shin of beef and three slices of ham or bacon into small pieces, put them into a stone jar, with alternate layers of shallot, half a head of celery, and one carrot cut into slices; add a blade of mace, a little salt and whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, chopped up ; pour in lqt. of water, tie the jar closely down to prevent the steam escaping, and set it in a moderate oven for eight hours. Strain the Gravy, and stir in 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup and soy, or 1 wineglassful of port wine. When cold, take off the fat carefully from the top, and it is ready for use. (11) Put lib. of shin of beef into a saucepan with a sheep’s milt cut in slices, dust over with flour, add a small quantity of butter, and brown them; then pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of hot water, add a small onion, a few pieces of celery, salt and pepper to taste, and stew slowly for about two hours. Skim off all the fat and scum, pass the liquor through a strainer, mix in 1 table-spoonful of mush- room or other ketchup, and the Gravy is ready for use. (12) Fry three sliced onions in butter till browned, put them into a stewpan with a large slice of well-browned toast, any trimmings or bones of meat, season to taste with sweet herbs, pour over the required quantity of water, and cook over a moderate fire until all the goodness is extracted from the meat and the Gravy is thick. Add salt and pepper to taste, strain into a basin, and use as required, keeping it in a cool place. When it is desired to thicken a Gravy (jus lie), this can be done by a judicious use of flour, or the additionTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 714 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Gravies—continued. of some other starchy material; but for all ordinary purposes, so far as bona fide roasted meats are concerned, the plain Gravy is mostly preferred upon our English tables. Gravies made without Meat (an maigre).—To the vegetarian these Gravies are of the first importance; as flavourings they are useful for many purposes where it is difficult to get Gravy stock and there is no yield from the meat. (1) Cut a large onion into slices, dust over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter or lard, and brown them; then put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful each of beer or ale and water, add 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup and a little grated lemon-peel, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Cover over the saucepan, and simmer slowly at the side of the fire for about twenty minutes. Pass the liquor through a sieve into a basin, let it get cold, remove the fat or scum, and it is ready for use. (2) Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till browned; then put in 2 table-spoonfuls each of walnut pickle, mushroom pickle, and mushroom ketchup, two sliced onions, two skinned and boned anchovies, two or three blades of mace, and five or six whole peppercorns ; next pour in 1 pint each of water and mild ale, and stir over the fire till on the point of boiling ; then move the stewpan a little to the side, and let the contents cook for twenty minutes. Before serving, the Gravy should be strained. (3) Chop rather small a few carrots, turnips, onions, and a little celery, put them into a frying-pan with some butter, and brown them ; pour in sufficient liquor from boiled beans or peas to moisten, season well with salt and pepper, and boil until the vegetables are done and tender. Pass the whole through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. (4) Put | pint of ale, not very bitter, into a saucepan, add | pint of water, 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom and walnut pickle and mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of salt, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, an onion cut in slices, an anchovy, and some browned butter and flour. Set the saucepan over the fire, and boil all together for twenty minutes, and then strain. Thick Gravies (Jus lies).—We are indebted to the French for these elaborations of Gravies, some of which are very commendable, but others mere attempts to destroy or swamp the natural flavour of the meat with a rich sauce. Thick Gravy with Anchovies (Jus lie aux Anchois).— Put 1^ teacupfuls of brown sauce with 1 teacupful of broth and 1 table-spoonful of Gravy into a saucepan over a clear fire, and when they boil stir in 2oz. of anchovy butter. The liquor should not boil after the butter is added. This Gravy sauce should be served at once. Thick Gravy with Cucumbers (Jus lie aux Concombres). —Peel and split three large cucumbers, cutting the fillets into short lengths. Place a lump of butter in a saucepan over the fire; when melted, put in the cucumbers, with 1 tea- spoonful of sugar and 1 pinch of chopped onions; turn the cucumbers about on the fire till tender and slightly coloured, then take out, and lay them on a cloth. Put into another saucepan 2j breakfast-cupfuls of half-glaze and f breakfast- cupful of broth, and reduce till it coats the spoon, then put in the cucumbers, and boil for two minutes, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Thick Gravy (Jus lie) with Curry.—Peel and cut in slices a carrot, a turnip, two apples, and one large or two small onions; put them in a saucepan with three or four slices of lean ham, a blade of mace, one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, two cloves, a little parsley, and about loz. of butter. Stand the saucepan on a slow fire, and stir the contents till slightly browned; then mix up well with them 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, pour in \ pint of good broth and nearly 1 pint of half-glaze, and boil all together; then strain through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put it on the fire, and reduce till it sticks to the spoon, skimming occasionally. Mix with it a little sugar and cayenne, pour it into a saucoboat, and ■serve. Gravies—continued. Thick Gravy with Fine Herbs (Jus lie aux Fines Herbes).—Chop up small one large onion, put it in a saucepan with a pat of butter, and stir over the fire till lightly coloured; then put in 2§- breakfast-cupfuls of half- glaze and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, and boil till reduced to two-thirds; then skim it well, stir in 1 table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, 1 pinch of sugar, and a little cayenne, and boil for five minutes. When about to serve squeeze in the strained juice of half a lemon. Thick Gravy with Olives (Jus lie aux Olives). — Fry 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped onions in a saucepan with a little salad-oil till lightly coloured, then mix with them 1 teaspoonful of port wine, 18 teaspoonfuls of half-glaze, and 6 teaspoonfuls of broth ; skim, and boil it till reduced two-thirds. Turn and stone twenty large olives, leaving them about their original shapes but smaller, put them in the saucepan with a little sugar, and boil for two minutes. The sauce is then ready for serving. Thick Gravy (Jus lie) Stock.—This is Spanish sauce in a diminutive form, and is prepared as follows : Cut from 41b. to 61b. of shoulder of veal into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan; place the pan on the fire, and fry the contents lightly, stirring occasionally with a spoon for from twelve to fifteen minutes; add a large carrot and two onions cut in slices, and continue the cooking for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer ; then add 2 pints of broth, put the lid on the pan, and reduce to a glaze, taking care not to let it burn; now add 6qts. or 8qts. of boiling broth and | pint of white wine; skim well, and as soon as it begins to boil remove it to the side of the fire. Put in a ham-bone, a fowl coloured in the oven, and a few chicken giblets, cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of- parsley and sweet herbs. When the meat is about three- quarters cooked, skim off the fat from the liquor, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed with a little cold water to thicken it. Boil for lialf-an-hour longer, skim, and strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, boil up again, put it at the side of the fire, and let it clarify for twenty-five minutes or so, adding occasionally a few table-spoonfuls of good broth. Skim it again, pour it into a basin, and let it get cold, occasionally stirring it. Thick Gravy with Truffles (Jus lie aux Truffles).—For this the French preserved truffles may be used. Put 10 table- spoonfuls of consomme and double the quantity of half-glaze into a saucepan, and reduce until it becomes again half- glaze ; then add six of the above truffles cut in slices and a little sugar, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, simmer gently for ten minutes, and it will then be quite ready to serve. Thick Gravy with Turnips (Jus lie aux petits Navets). —Peel, wash, and dry four large turnips, cut them in rounds, using a scoop about double the size of a pea. Put a little moist sugar in a saucepan, and place it on the fire till it melts and becomes slightly coloured; then put in loz. of butter and the turnips, and brown them slightly over a slow fire. Place in another saucepan breakfast-cupfuls of half- glaze and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth, put in the turnips, and simmer at the side of the fire till the turnips are done, skimming occasionally. Add more seasoning if required. Turn all into a sauceboat, and serve. Gravies for Special Purposes.—Although a good compound Gravy may he considered good enough for auy dish, there are some cooks who like to prepare special Gravies for certain dishes ; but with the following very few exceptions these partake so decidedly of the character of sauces that many of them will be found under that head. Gravy for Cutlets. — Work 1 teaspoonful of flour smooth with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold plain Gravy, and when the pan in which the cutlets have been cooked has been thoroughly drained of fat, pour it in, and stir over the fire until it gets thick ; add a little Worcestershire or Harvey sauce, and serve. Gravy for Roasted Beef.—When the meat is quite roasted, put it on a plate and keep it hot while making the Gravy. Hold the corner of the dripping-pan over a bowl; let the liquid in the pan settle, then pour off all the fat into the bowl and save it. When no water is used in baking, andTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 715 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Gravies—continued. the oven is very hot, this liquid will be the fat from the meat and the brown juice which will settle, and some will adhere to the pan. Pour 1 pint of hot water or stock (stock preferred) into the pan, and rub off the sediment at the bottom, so that it shall be dissolved in the stock or water. Pour this into a stewpan or saucepan, and place it on the stove to heat. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of the hot fat into a small frying-pan, and when browned stir in 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of dry flour, or enough to absorb all the fat. Stir until the flour is brown and well mixed, then add the hot liquid gradually, and stir as it thickens. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer for five minutes. Strain through a Gravy-strainer till perfectly smooth. Gravy can be made in the dripping-pan, but such pans are usually large, inconvenient to handle, take up more space than can be spared on the top of the stove, and are much harder to wash when the Gravy has been made in them. To make it in the pan, pour off nearly all the fat, put the pan on the stove, and add dry flour until the fat is all absorbed; then add hot water or hot stock, and stir as it thickens. Cook for five to eight minutes, and strain. Pour the Gravy into a dish, not over the meat, as is the custom of inexpe- rienced cooks. Gravy for Roasted Goose.—When the goose is roasted or baked, turn nearly all the fat out of the pan, but do not pour away the brown part of the drippings. Put the pan over the fire, stir into it 1 piled table-spoonful of flour, and lot the flour brown; then stir in 1 pint of boiling water, season the Gravy with salt and pepper, boil for a moment, and serve. Gravy for Turkey.—Chop up an onion as finely as possible, put it in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till it is dark brown. Put 3 gills of stock in a saucepan, with a little ham finely chopped, a sprig each of parsley and thyme, a little Worcestershire or Harvey sauce, and salt and pepper to taste, and boil up for from five to ton minutes; then strain it into a basin or sauceboat. Gravy for Venison.—Remove all the fat from 21b. or 31b. of loin of mutton, cut it into rather thick slices, grill them for a minute or two on one side only so as to slightly brown them, put them into a stewpan, pour over lqt. of water, place the lid on the pan, and simmer at the side of the fire for an hour; then take off the lid, and boil until the liquor is re- duced to half its original quantity. When wanted for use, season with salt only. Gravy for Wild Towl.—Put into a small saucepan a blade of mace, a piece of lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls each of mush- room ketchup, walnut ketchup, and strained lemon-juice, two shallots cut in slices, and 2 wineglassfuls of port wine; put the saucepan over the fire, and boil the contents ; then strain and add it to the Gravy that has come from the fowl while roasting. If there should be a large quantity of Gravy, less wine, ketchup, &c., will be needed. GRAVY SOUPS.—These have become so universal in our restaurants, and even at private tables, that a few receipts for their manufacture are desirable under this heading. The term “ gravy ” is rather a misnomer, as the soup is not made from the gravy of meat obtained with the dripping, as previously described in the article on Gravy. (1) Take 31b. or 41b. of bones (those from a piece of streaky bacon for preference), break them up small, and fry lightly in a frying-pan. Cut 21b. of beef from the neck into small pieces, and fry them also. Cut up lib. of onions into thin slices, and fry them in a separate pan until they are a light brown colour. Turn all into the stockpot, add 3qts. of water, boil up, and skim. Put in two large turnips and a carrot cut in slices, six or eight pepper- corns, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil gently for four or five hours, and just about an hour before it is ready put in a little chopped celery or celery-seed tied up in a bag. Strain the soup through a fine sieve, and when it is quite cold skim off all the fat. Boil up again, add 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour mixed to a paste in 4 table-spoonfuls of water, sprinkle in 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and the soup is ready to serve. A few forcemeat balls might be added with advantage. (2) Cut into slices about 71b. of shin of beef, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter and two shallots cut into Gravy Soups—continued. pieces, cover the pan, and brown the meat over the fire ; add 8oz. of ham, pour over Igall. of cold water, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for about three hours, taking great care not to let it boil, and skimming frequently; now add 3qts. of warmed water, three carrots cut in slices, two heads of celery in small pieces, four or five cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer gently for another hour, then add throe turnips cut in slices, and simmer again until the meat is perfectly tender, and done to rags. Strain off the liquor, let it remain for a day, skim, put it into a saucepan, make it hot without boiling, add 2 tabic-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and a seasoning of allspice, salt, and pepper, turn it out into a tureen, and serve with small squares of toast floating on the top. (3) Cut bullock’s, calf’s, or sheep’s milt into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 21b. of bones and lib. of onions, fry till they are a light brown, and pour over 3qts. of water; when this boils, skim it, then add three carrots and turnips, 4oz. of Scotch oatmeal, and a few sweet herbs. When it has boiled for four hours, pass it through a fine sieve, remove all the fat, place it back in the pan, and boil again, adding 2oz. of cornflour made into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Season well with salt and pepper, and serve plain or with croutons of fried bread. (4) Lay at the bottom of a saucepan £lb. of loan ham, over it 31b. of lean beef, and cover this again with 31b. of veal, all cut in slices; if there arc any bones, break them, and put them on top of the meat. Put in also a bunch of sweet herbs, a head of celery cut up, two peeled and sliced turnips, two sliced carrots, four peeled onions, four cloves, a blade of mace, and lqt. of water. Cover the pan, and set it over a moderate fire till the meat browns ; then turn it over, and let the other side brown. Pour in 3qts. of boiling water, and boil gently for an hour, skimming off the scum as it rises ; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, throw in 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and simmer for four hours. Strain through a sievo and let it stand till cold; carefully remove the fat, then pour it carefully into the saucepan to warm it up, without dis- turbing the sediment. This soup should be perfectly clear and the colour of amber. (5) Cut 31b. of neck of beef and a slice of ham into small pieces, and put them into a stockpot with a little butter; cover the pot, and put it on the side of the fire, where the juice will be extracted from the meat without burning; when there is about £ pint of juice put the pot a little farther over the fire, so that the watery portions may evaporate. When the meat is covered with a thick rich glaze add £ pint of water, and boil up so as to reduce it quickly. Now add 2qts. of water, boil again, skim well, and let it remain with the lid a little raised for three hours. Put a large carrot, two turnips, eight onions cut up in slices and fried, 1 salt- spoonful of celery-seeds, and two or three peppercorns tied up in a muslin bag into another saucepan ^ith 1 pint of water, and boil until quite tender. Strain off the liquor into the soup in the stockpot, sprinkle in a little pepper, strain the whole again, and let it get cool. Remove the fat, and if it is at all thick warm it, and stir in the well-beaten whites and shells of three eggs, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Remove it from the fire, and in five minutes strain it through a very fine sieve or flannel bag, and it is ready for use. The addition of £oz. of dissolved gelatine will make this Gravy Soup very strong, or a little glaze added before clarifying enriches it. Fig. 881. Grayli.nu. GRAYLING.—This favourite fisli (Thymallus vul- garis) is allied to the trout; it has a very broad dorsal I fin (see Fig. 881), and is found in cold mountain streams.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 716 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i;c., referred to, see under their special heads. Grayling—continued. The Grayling is sometimes known as the umber. It varies in size, attaining as much as a foot in length, especially the Grayling found in American rivers; and all alike are esteemed as game fish, of fine flavour, and primest in July and August They may be cooked like trout, baked, or broiled, and served with lemon; but the smaller fish are usually most appreciated prepared as follows : Fried Graylings.—Scale and clean two or three Graylings, wash them well, dredge over with flour, put them before the fire to dry, then plunge them into a frying-pan of lard or dripping, and fry for about five minutes. When done, drain, place them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted- butter sauce. GREASE.—This term, although generally applied to all kinds of fat, is not much used in the kitchen excepting as a term of contempt. What the cook denominates Grease may be anything that is considered worthy of relegation to the Grease-pot, and has a very broad meaning in consequence. GREEN BUTTER.—See Butter. GREEN-COD.—See Pollock. GREEN CORN.—Sec Indian Corn. GREEN-CRABS.—Edible shore-crabs of Europe and America, known in New England as Joe-Rockers. Not very plentiful in this country. GREENGAGES.—These constitute a variety of plum (Primus domestica) that are perhaps more highly esteemed than any other for their firm flesh, delicate flavour, and sweetness. The term Gage was given to this fruit by a family of that name, who imported it from France into Eno-land about the end of the eighteenth century. In France ami other Continental countries it is known as Reine Claude, after the queen of Francis I. Fro. 882. Greengages. The Blue-gage, Frost-gage, Golden-gage, and some j others are probably sub-varieties of the Greengage. See Fig. 882. Bottled Greengages.—Select Greengages that are not quite ripe, make small holes all over them, put them in wide- mouthed bottles, fill the bottles with thin syrup, cork, and tie down; place them in a saucepan of water, bring it gently to the boil, and simmer until the fruit turns brown. Remove from the fire, leave the bottles in the water for a day, boil again for ten minutes, and the fruit is ready for use. Greengages—continued. Candied Knots of Greengage Paste.—Put sufficient ripe Greengages in a copper preserving-pan to produce lib. of pulp; add 4oz. of coarsely-crushed preserving-sugar and sufficient water to cover them, place the pan over a slow fire, and let the contents simmer gently for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Take the pan off the fire, cover the Green- gages with vine-leaves, and leave in a cool place till the following day; remove the leaves, stand the preserving-pan over the fire, and stir the contents till reduced to a rather stiff pulp, then pass it through a cane sieve. Boil 14oz. of sugar to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), put the Greengage pulp in it, and stir over the fire till reduced, Fig. 883. Candied Knots or Greengage Paste Packed in Box. so that when passing the spoon to and fro the bottom of the pan can be seen. Pour the mixture on to a bright sheet of tin to about jin. thick, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and set it in the screen to dry for four or five hours. Slip the blade of a knife under the paste, then turn it over and leave it to dry on the other side for an hour longer. When quite cold, cut the paste into thin strips about 6in. long and gin. wide, and tie these into true-lovers’ knots. When all the paste is used in this manner, put the knots on a wire tray, set it in a screen of a moderate heat, and dry them. Pack the knots of candied paste in boxes between sheets of white paper (see Fig. 883). Compote of Greengages.—(1) Select twenty large and per- fectly sound Greengages, wipe them, and put them in a copper sugar-boiler with Hb. of loaf sugar and j pint of water; when it has boiled cover the pan, move it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Take the Greengages out, strain the syrup, put it back in the sugar-boiler, and reduce to 30deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Arrange the Greengages tastefully in a compote-dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve. (2) Prepared as for No. 1, only an equal proportion of pale brandy should be mixed with the syrup when they are being finished off. Dried Greengages.—Procure some fine perfectly sound Green- gages, cut off the brown end of the stalks, but leave the remainder on; prick them all over with a pin, then put Fig. 884. Greengages on Wire Drainer. them in a pan with sufficient syrup of 22deg. (see Syrups) for them to float in; set them over a smothered fire, and leave for ten minutes. Turn the Greengages and syrup intoTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 717 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Greengages—continued. a large jar, and cover them with vine-leaves ; on the following day strain off the syrup, boil up again, skim it, and pour j it back on the Greengages. Repeat the operation of boiling for the two following days. Take the Greengages out of the syrup and lay them a short distance from each other on a wire drainer placed on a baking-sheet; put them in a screen, and dry them slowly. Boil 111b. of sugar to the pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling), squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and work it against the sides of the pan with the bowl of a spoon until it has a dull white appearance, then throw in the dried Greengages. Toss them about to give them a good coating, then lift them carefully out with a fork and place on the drainer, the stalk sides upwards (see Pig. 884). Dry the Greengages slowly in a screen, then pack them away in boxes between layers of paper. Greengage-and-Apricot Jam.—Put 21b. of stoned Green- gages into a preserving-pan with 21b. of stoned apricots. Blanch the kernels of the apricots, add them to the fruit, together with 21b. or 31b. of loaf sugar, and boil gently over a slow fire until a clear jam is obtained. Put it away in pots, covered over with pieces of paper dipped in brandy, and then again with wet parchment, or thick paper. Greengage Bouchees.—Make some Savoy-biscuit batter. Spread a sheet of white paper on a baking-tin, squeeze the batter through a biscuit-forcer on to the paper, forming Fig. 885. Greengage BouchiSes. rounds 1 .jin. in diameter; sift caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a moderate oven, keeping them as light a colour as possible. When done, put the half of a preserved Greengage on each (see Pig. 885), glaze them with transparent icing flavoured with maraschino, and they are ready to serve. Greengage Cream-Ice.—Peel one dozen Greengages, put them in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and stir over the fire till reduced to a pulp. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 pint of thick syrup and an equal quantity of thick cream; colour with a few drops of extract of spinach. Put the mixture into a freezing-pot, and work it over ice till stiff, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice for two hours. When ready, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn its contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. A little lemon-juice added to the cream is an improvement. Greengage Jam.—Select sound ripe Greengages, split them down the sides and remove the stones ; put the fruit in a preserving-pan with a little water, stew them till quite tender, then rub the fruit through a sieve, put the pulp in the pre- serving-pan again, and for every 61b. of fruit put in 4jlb. of sugar ; stir with a wooden spoon, and boil very fast, skim- ming off the scum as it rises. When the jam drops from the spoon like a thick jelly it is done. Pill jars with it, let it cool, then cover with rounds of writing-paper dipped in brandy, and then with bladder. This jam should be kept in a dry cupboard till wanted. Greengage Paste.— Select the required quantity of Green- gages, stone them, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water, and simmer till they form a thick pulp ; pass this through a hair sieve, put it back again in the preserving-pan and reduce it by gently heating. Weigh the pulp, and use lib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound of pulp. Boil the sugar to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), then stir in the Greengage pulp, and continue stirring over the fire until it is thick. Turn it out on to an oiled baking-sheet, and dry it both sides in a very slow oven. Dust caster sugar over, and when firm and dry cut it up and pack away in tins or boxes, with paper between the layers. Greengages—continued. Greengage Souffle.—(1) Put 11b. or so of Greengages in a preserving-pan on the stove, cover them with syrup, and when quite soft pass the pulp through a sieve. Put 1 table- spoonful of flour in j pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till thick ; take it off, let it cool, then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and sufficient Greengage jam to make a stiff paste; beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in with the souffle; pour the preparation into a plain dish, and put it in the oven; when it rises turn it out on a dish, and serve. (2) Put lib. of Greengages in a saucepan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew them gently. Put 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour in a small saucepan, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; allow it to cool a little, then stir in the well- beaten yolks of three eggs ; pass the stewed Greengages Fig. 886. Greengage Souffle. through a fine hair sieve and mix them in also. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the mixture. Pour the whole into a plain metal dish, and bake in a quick oven. When well risen take the souffle out of the oven, pin a folded napkin round the dish, and serve immediately. See Fig. 886. Greengage Tart.—(1) Cut the fruit into halves, and stone it ; put it in a stewpan with plenty of caster sugar and a very small quantity of water, and stew gently. Whisk the yolks of three eggs along with the white of one and a small quantity of water, then beat in 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, I5 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and a sufficient quantity of flour to make a stiff paste. Work it well, put it on a floured table or paste-board, and roll it out to jin. in thickness. Butter a flat tart-mould, line it with the paste, join the ends together, first moistening them with beaten white of egg, spread a sheet of white paper over it, fill with uncooked rice, and bake. When the Greengages are tender, pour in with them 1|- wineglassfuls of pale brandy. Empty the rice out of the tart-crust, removing it with the paper, fill the crust with the Greengages, and serve hot or cold. (2) Cut into halves a dozen ripe Greengages, remove the stones, put the fruit into a basin, and mix in 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Line a pie-dish with rich paste, cover with a little apple preserve, and put the Greengages over this. Brush the edges of the tart with beaten egg, put a rim of paste round, brush over with more egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifty minutes. Take out the tart, sprinkle over caster sugar, melt this in the oven, spread over some sweet jelly, and serve. Fig. 887. ..Greengage Tartlets. Greengage Tartlets.—(1) Cut into quarters twelve ripe Green- gages, and remove the stones. Roll out ^lb. of puff paste toTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 718 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Greengages—continued. about 12in. long by 8in. wide, cut out six pieces with a paste- cutter, and put them in six scalloped tart-moulds, 3|in. in diameter. Press down the paste so as to have the impression of the moulds, but avoid pressing down the edges, so that in baking they will swell and rise. Cover the bottoms of each of these with Joz. of apple marmalade, arrange the Greengages on this, sprinkle over 2oz. of powdered loaf sugar, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Pull them to the oven door, dust the edges with more powdered sugar, and bake for two minutes longer. Take them out and let them cool, spread over each a little apple jelly, turn them out carefully on to a napkin or dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 887. (2) Stone the required quantity of Greengages, put them in a stewpan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew until tender. Butter some patty-pans, line them with short-paste, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake. When the tartlets are cooked, empty out the rice, and fill them with the Greengages. Pile in each tart a small quantity of well-whipped cream, arrange them on a dish over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve hot or cold. (3) Prepare a paste with lib. of flour, 2oz. of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and a small quantity of water. When well mixed, put the paste on a floured table, and roll it out to about lin. in thickness. Butter some patty-pans, line them with the paste, fill with uncooked rice to keep them in shape, and bake. Stone the selected quantity of Green- gages, put them in a stewpan with loaf sugar to taste and a small quantity of water, and boil until tender. When cooked, turn the rice out of the tart-crusts, and fill them with the Greengages. When cold, put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper and serve, accompanied by cream or custard. Greengage Toast.—Procure the Greengages when they have just ripened, cut them into halves and remove the stones. Put plenty of loaf sugar in a saucepan with some cold water, boil it until thickly reduced, then strain. Lay 'the halves of Greengages in the saucepan, turn the syrup over them, pour in some sherry, and simmer gently for about ten minutes. Cut as many slices of milk roll as there are halves of Greengages, and trim off the crust, leaving a round of crumb a little larger than a Greengage. Put a lump of butter into a flat stewpan; when it has molted put in the rounds of bread, fry them a pale golden cokmr on both sides, drain them, arrange in a circle on a dish, and put half a Greengage on each, the cut side of the fruit upwards. Crack the stones, put half a kernel in each half of the fruit, and pour the syrup over. Pile whipped cream in the centre of the dish, and serve. Greengage Water-Ice.—Put two dozen ripe Greengages in a stewpan with a little water and cook them till soft, then pass them through a hair sieve, colour with a little extract of spinach, and put in the juice of one lemon and about £ pint of syrup. Put the preparation into a freezing-pot, and when frozen turn it into a mould and cover and pack in ice. When wanted for use dip the mould into tepid water, wipe it round, and turn the ice on to a cold glass dish. Greengage Wine.—Stone 20qts. of ripe Greengages, press the fruit to a pulp, pour 5galls. of water over, and let it stand till the next day. Boil the Greengages for half-an- hour in the water and dissolve 101b. of loaf sugar in it, removing the scum as it rises. Beat the whites of six eggs, mix them in with the Greengages, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Crack the stones and put them with the kernels into a cooler, strain the liquor through a hair sieve on to the stones in the cooler, cover it down closely, and let it remain till cold. Generally this will ferment by itself, but if fermenta- tion does not set in during the course of a couple of days or so, cover a piece of toast with pure fresh yeast, put it in with the wine, and let it ferment for four or five days, stirring two or three times a day. When settled, skim the wine, pour it into a cask, add 3oz. of white sugar-candy, the thinly-peeled rinds of two lemons and two Seville oranges, and 31b. of stoned and finely-chopped raisins. Filter the lees, and add the liquor to the rest, filling the cask ; put a sheet of paper and a weight over the bung-hole, and let the wine Greengages—continued. work. When the fermentation has ceased, pour in 1| pints of pale brandy (or this may be omitted), fasten the bung down securely, and let it be for twelve months. Rack it off, filter the lees, and fill the cask again; crush 3oz. of white sugar-candy, put it in the wine, with Joz. of dissolved isinglass, and fasten the bung down securely again. Decant the wine in due time. Preserved Greengages.—(1) Select the required quantity of Greengages, not quite ripe, prick each as far as the stone in two or three places, and put them in a copper preserving- pan ; cover with salted water, and stir them about over the fire, with a wooden spoon, till hot through, then turn them into a tub, pour the same liquor over, and leave them to soak. Scald them again the next day in the same liquor, and on the following day scald again till the stones will move easily in the fruit and the colour is changed to a bright green ; then take the Greengages out of the liquor and put them in cold water; afterwards take them out, one by one, put them in a preserving-pan, cover with a weak syrup, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Lay the Greengages care- fully on a large flat dish, cover them with syrup, put a large sheet of paper over the top to keep out the dust, and let them remain for three days. Arrange carefully on sieves, so that they may drain; put the syrup in the preserv- ing-pan again, add some sugar boiled to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), boil it for a few minutes, and skim. Put the Greengages on the dish again, pour the syrup over, and let them remain in it for two days longer. Proceed as before, adding more boiled sugar to the syrup, then put in the Greengages; simmer for a few minutes, take them out, put them in jars, pour the syrup over, and let them be till cool. The jars should be covered and tied down, and kept in a dry cupboard till wanted for use. (2) Prick over with a fork 31b. of Greengages, put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover, simmer gently for a few minutes, remove from the fire, and drain the plums. Prepare a weak syrup, made with 31b. of sugar and the water the fruit was boiled in (see Sugar-boiling), boil very quickly until the syrup falls in short drops from the spoon, skimming continually, then put in the plums, which should be warm, and boil until large bubbles appear in the syrup. Turn all into a pan and leave it for a day, then drain the fruit, boil up the syrup, pour it o-ver the fruit, and continue in the same way twice more. Now boil the syrup up again, put in the plums, boil for a few minutes, turn all into warm jars, and tie down. Care must be taken that the sugar is not boiled to candy (see Sugar-boiling). (3) Procure 250 ripe Greengages, selecting those which break easily from the stones ; wash them well in cold water, drain thoroughly, divide equally into glass jars, and fill up with 5qts. of syrup. Put on the covers, which should screw in tightly, and place them in a large saucepan, seeing that they do not touch each other, otherwise they might break, and pack a little hay or straw between them. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, place it on the hot stove, and boil for eight minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, laying them in a dry but not cool place. Let them remain until thoroughly cold, then put them away in a dry place and use as required. (4) Wash the Greengages in cold water, and dry them well. They should not bo quite ripe, but must be sound and good. Have ready plenty of vine-leaves or peach-leaves washed clean and drained; weigh the Greongag'es, and to every pound allow a piece of alum about the size of a pea. Put into a preserving-pan a layer of leaves to cover the bottom three thick, then a layer of Greengages, with some of the alum powdered to a fine powder and sprinkled among them, then a layer of leaves, then Greengages with the powdered alum, and so on, taking care that the last layer of Greengages has a layer of leaves over them. Put in enough cold water to just cover them, place a clean cloth over the top of the pan, and put over that a tight-fitting cover to keep the steam in. Place the pan on the stove, let it heat gradually, and steam for two hours. It must not boil or the Greengages will get soft and burst. When they are a good green, drain, let them cool, and put them into glass jars. Make a syrup, using lib. of sugar for every 21b. of plums, and add for every pound of sugar 2 breakfast-cupfuls ofTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 719 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Greengages—continued. water; put the sugar and water into a preserving-pan and boil and skim till it is quite clear, then let it cool, and when cold add to it an equal part of brandy. When syrup and plums are both quite cold, fill up the jars with the syrup, and cork and fasten them air-tight. Preserved Greengage Pulp for Ices.—Stone the required quantity of ripe Greengages, put them in a preserving-pan with a little water and stir over the fire till reduced to a pulp, then rub them through a hair sieve; weigh the pulp, and for every 21b. add |lb. of broken loaf sugar. When the sugar is well mixed in, put the pulp into wide-mouthed bottles, and tie them down; stand the bottles in a deep preserving-pan, with a little straw or hay between to prevent them breaking; surround them, almost to the necks, with boiling water, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Leave the bottles in the water till cold, then take them out, cork them, and wax over the tops. Keep them in a dry store-closet. This preserved Greengage puree or pulp is very useful to confectioners and pastry-cooks, and if nicely coloured with spinach-green may be made to answer innu- merable purposes. Stewed Greengages.—Peel eighteen or twenty ripe Green- gages, cut them into halves, stone and put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, adding |lb. of sugar. Place the pan on the stove, and when boiling skim well. Cook for five minutes, stirring slowly from the bottom to avoid mashing the fruit; remove from the fire and immedi- ately add 1 g'ill of reJ cura^oa, mixing well together for about half a minute. Pour the whole into a bowl, let it get cool, turn it on to a dish, and serve. GREEN GOOSE.—A common term for a gosling. See Goose. GREEN ICING.—See Icing. GREENING.—A vegetable colouring matter made by expressing the juice of spinach. Occasionally used in confectionery and for other culinary purposes. See Colourings. GREEN LAVER.—See Algal GREEN MACAROONS.—See Macaroons. GREEN PEAS.—See Peas. GREENS.—This term is commonly used as applying to all kinds of cabbages. GREEN SAUCES.-See Sauces. GREEN TURTLE.—See Turtles. GRENADES.—In times of revolution and anarchy Grenades were in great vogue for dealing death and destruction at close quarters. They were shells con- taining combustibles, and were thrown by the hand, hence the term “hand-Grenades” and the origin of our Grenadier Guards, whose badge is the emblem of a flaming Grenade. But Urbain Dubois sought in his day to treat the subject with culinary satire, and accordingly served up the following dish: Fig. 888. Grenades with Cherry Sauce. Grenades with Cherry Sauce. —Cut some small stale rolls in halves, trim off the crusts, and shape the crumb like eggs. Beat a few yolks of eggs with a small quantity of cream, sweeten with caster sugar, and flavour with essence of vanilla; soak the rolls in the mixture. When well steeped, drain the rolls, taking care not to injure the shapes, dip them Grenades—continued. in beaten eggs, and cover with finely-grated stale bread- crumb. Put some clarified fat into a deep frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the rolls and fry them till browned. Put 1 breakfast-cupful or so of sour stoned cherries into a small saucepan, add 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the peel of half a lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and 1 wine- glassful of red wine. Let the liquid boil quickly for a few minutes. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, then mix it with the sauce, and stir by the fire till thick. When done, diain the Grenades, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle vanilla-flavoured sugar on them, pour the cherry sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 888. Other fruit sauce may be substituted for the cherry sauce. GRENADINES. — A small kind of Fricandeaux ; some receipts for making them will be found under various headings of meat, poultry, &c. GREY MULLET.—Sec Mullet. GREY PLOVERS.—See Plovers. GRIDDLE.—This is described as an iron plate or pan used for cooking cakes (see Fig. 889). It is some- times mentioned in the lowland districts of Scotland as a Girdle, but this is merely a corruption of Griddle, which dates its pedigree back as far as the time when Scotland and the North of England were inhabited purely by Celts. GRIDDLE CAKES.—See Cakes. GRIDIRONS.—Correctly speaking these are irons for broiling meat or fish over coals (see Fig. 980), although they derive their origin from the same source as griddle, the iron having seemingly cropped in to distinguish them from wooden grids, or gratings. Since the intro- duction of the French word griller — to broil or grill, the French for a Gridiron, “ a grill ” and “ to grill,” seem to have taken the place of the older phraseology. See Broiling and Grilling.720 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tec., referred to, see under their special heads. GRIGNOLINO. — A Piedmontese wine which is largely exported to South America. GE.ILLADE. — Fr. for anything grilled, such as broiled ham. GRILLING.—“It is curious,” says Kettner, “that the most ancient and the most simple mode of cookery should be in some respects the most perfect, and in England certainly the most esteemed. The first cooked Fig. 891. Beef-steak Grill for Kitchener Stove (Wilson’s Design). food that man ate was a broil; and in England the steak or chop from the gridiron is in more request than any other form of food.” This statement has been disputed by French cooks, who declare that the use of the grill was not understood in this country until introduced by them. Be that as it may, there are certain distinctions between the two kinds of grilling that by a judicious association might lead to perfection in this mode of cooking. For instance, the British cook rarely prepares a piece of meat for the grill, whereas the French cook sprinkles it with pepper and salt, and brushes it over with oil or soft butter. When breadcrumbing is advisable, the French cook rolls the meat in oil or butter and then into bread- crumbs; whereas the British cook smears it over with egg, and then rolls it in crumbs, the egg forming too hard a crust over the meat. Fig. 892. Grill. The grill may be placed either over (see Fig. 891) or before the fire (see Fig. 893); but unless the fire can be specially prepared for the grill, and all smoke and gas- flaming kept down, grilling over would destroy the flavour of the meat, and introduce those that are not any too pleasing. Grill-stoves are now made (see Fig. 892) in which a very hot glowing fire can be kept up, by means Grilling—continued. of which grilling is much simplified. • In a large range the stove of a fire can be prepared for grilling by spreading over it a thick layer of charcoal and cinders. Grilling in front of the fire requires a hot fierce glowing fire in front, and then some such apparatus as shown Fig. 893. Reversible Adjustable Grii.ler (James Dickson). in Figs. 893 and 894 answers admirably. The first (Fig. 893) is a reversible griller, so constructed that the article cooking can be turned either side to the fire without unhinging the grill. The second (Fig. 894) is that mostly in use in large kitchens—the broiler turns round upon a spindle. Both of these can be placed, by a sliding movement, as near or far from the fire as desired. Whether grilling over or before the fire, the first great principle is to get as close to the glow as possible. In this the British grill cook differs from the foreigner; Fig. 895. Beef-steak Tongs. and, secondly, let the grilling meat be turned as often as possible—this the English cook regulates by counting ten, and then turning, whereas the French cook declares that the meat shouid only be turned once, in which he decidedly is in error.