V\The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark:Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://arch i ve. org/detai Is/b21532461tZort'lon, fT. Zr// v' /THE /Mf iSstp COOK’S DICTIONARY, AND HOUSEKEEPERS DIRECTORY: A NEW FAMILY MANUAL OF COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY, ON A PLAN OF READY REFERENCE NEVER HITHERTO ATTEMPTED. BY RICHARD J)OLBY, LATE COOK AT THE THATCHED HOUSE TAVERN, ST. JAMES'S STREET. INCLUDING NEW EDITION, CAREFULLY REVISED; numerous new receipts, the MOST APPROVED modern and fashionable plans for laving out the table, BILLS OF fare, LONDON: HENRY COLBURN AND RICHARD BENTLEY NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 1832.t UNIVERSITY LIBRARY# LEEDS. raioADVERTISEMENT TO SECOND EDITION. The present edition of The Dictionary of Cookery and Con- fectionary has been carefully revised, and improved by many valuable corrections and additions. J * vcuucum5 As complaints have been made that there were no Bills of Fare nor Plans for lajnng out the Table, in the first edition, the Editor lias now supphed two or three specimens of each for the use of those who may be inexperienced. ' London, May 1832; trifr]INft,E the Publ,cation of the first edition of this work, the Editor has Mr d Lopresti^DnaSaUCeS and .:pouring condiments manufactured by D„vJ3 nt (many years principal cook to his Royal Highness the femdL Gloucester)J and begs to recommend themto tiTZice of families economists, and culinary practitioners. f jjSsasMBStt t ^ Pecial]y a‘tei having once been exposed to the air Lopresti sPortable Sauce, Sauce Nonpareil and Duke of rim, i » bauce, are also excellent substitute fn,. r, • « • ot tMoucester’s old sauces generallyor Cavici and a11 the other calculated to save much trouble e various seasonings are likewise well flavour toforce-Tears ’ P f6’ and Waste in ^parting a fine Sen S com- extensively £“‘^7 ”7!“ E”‘°r’ L7ADVERTISEMENT TO FIRST EDITION. In presenting this system of Cookery to the Public, the Editor begs leave to state, that the Work is not only substantially new, but com- posed upon a plan entirely original. The arrangement is alphabetical, at once the simplest and best for reference; yet it has never hitherto been adopted by writers on Cookery. To all other arts and sciences this mode of arrangement has been successfully applied ; and Dictiona- ries of these have been found to be the most convenient and popular compendiums of knowledge. Perhaps oi all works that teach the arts of civilized life, Cookery"Books most require to be easy of reference; the preparation of a single dish will often compel a cook to turn to a dozen receipts; and the plan of all the systems hitherto existing is so confused, that when this is the case, much time must be lost in searching for them. The difficulty of finding, with sufficient dispatch, the various receipts which are often required, has long been complained ot; and it is therefore singular that the plan of the present Work, apparently so obvious, and certainly so well calculated to save time and abridge labour, should not have been sooner adopted. With regard to the contents of this volume, apart trom its plan, the Editor begs to state, that he has enriched his Dictionary of Cookery and Confectionary with numerous excellent receipts, most oi winch have seldom or never appeared in print before ; and these have a star ( ) prefixed to note them. The number of asterisks throughout the will abundantly prove that novelty of matter, as well as of plan may be claimed for this volume. To the important subject ot Confec- tionary, so much neglected in other Cookery Books, much attention has been paid ; and u?on the whole, the Editor ™^*ha***t he will be allowed to have given to the Public a valuable V ork. Among other novelties, will be found an alphabetical^ list. of Jhe va- rious kinds of Fish, Flesh, Fowl Fruits, months when each is in season; and original instructions for choosing the several kinds of food. The Editor has only further to observe, that so far fi ^ much to himself of the credit which may be he is free to confess himself largely indebted to the5 tale . ^ { of numerous friends in the profession, to whom he takes this oppoitumty of returning his grateful acknowledgements. London, May 30, 1830.BILL OF FARE FOR SIX OR EIGHT PERSONS. (See Plate). FIRST COURSE. DECEMBER OR JANUARY. Potage de Gihlotte Giblet Soup JJorf garni avec des filets de Soles frites. John Dorey with fillets of Soles fried. RELEVES Gigot d’Agneau bouilli, &c. Longe de Veau farcie, &c. REMOVES Leg of Lamb with Spinach Loin of Veal stuffed, &c. ENTREES ENTREES Quenelles de Lapereau Salmi de Bficasses Emince de Mouton Fricassee de Poulets Quenelles of Rabbit, veloute sauce Salrm of Woodcocks with croutons Emince of Mutton in small timballs Fncassee of Chickens, Polonaise fashion SECOND COURSE. Sarcelles roties Perdreaux Truffes entieres Gelee de Maraschino Champignons etuves Corbeille d’Orange, &c. Teal roast Partridges Whole Truffles Maraschino J elly Stewed Mushrooms Basket of Orange quarters, and whipped cream r RELEVES Fondue Petits Gateaux de Crgme glacfie REMOVES Fondue Cream Cakes glazedBILL OF FARE FOR TWELVE PERSONS, (See Plate). FIRST COURSE. OCTOBER. Potage it la Reine Potage a la Jardiniere RELEVES Turbot Truite SaumonGe Selle de Mon ton Deux Poulets garnis avec une Langue de Boeuf ENTRIES Un Fricandeau a la Macedoine Timbale de Napolitaine Escallopes de Faisants, &c. Cotelettes d’Agneau glacees, &c. Petits Pates aux Huitres Attelettes de Ris de Veau Soup h la Reine Soup a la Jardiniere REMOVES T urbot Salmon Trout Saddle of Mutton Two Chickens boiled, served with a Tongue ENTRIES Fricandeau of Veal, Macedoine sauce Neapolitan Timball Scallops of Pheasants, sauce supreme 1 Lamb Cutlets glazed, and tomata sauce Oyster Patties Attelets of Sweetbreads, Italienne sauce SECOND COURSE. Trois Grousses Quatre Perdreaux Salade de Gibier en Mayonnaise Une Tourte de Fruits et caramel Haricots verts ii la Poulette Artichauts k l'Espagnole Panier de MGringues Gratinee d’Homards en coquilles RELEV^S SoufflGe de Gingembre Boudin de Cabinet Three Grouse roast—Cogs de bruyere Four Partridges Salad of Game in Mayonnaise Tart of Fruit decorated, and caramel cover French Beans in Poulette sauce Artichoke bottoms, Espagnole sauce Basket of Meringues Lobsters gratinee in the shells REMOVES SoufflGe of preserved Ginger Cabinet PuddingBILL OF FARE FOR EIGHTEEN PERSONS. (See Plate). Puree de Gibier Potage A l’Allemande Tranches de Cabilleau, &c. Matelote de Carpes FIRST COURSE. JANUARY. Puree of Game Consomme with Nouilles Slices of crimped Cod and Smelts Matelote of Carp RELEVES Tete de Veau a la bechamelle Bceuf roti Dindon a la financiers Langue de Bceuf en chartreuse REMOVES Calf's Head, bechamel sauce Roast Beef Turkey with financier sauce I'ongue en chartreuse ENTREES ENTRIES Vol au Vent d’Homard Perdrix aux Choux Filets de Volaille piques Turban Filets de Lapereau, See. Cassolettes d’un Salpicon, &c. Cdtelettes de Mouton a la Soubise Tendrons de Veau, &c. Pate d’Alouettes aux Truffes Patty with ragout of Lobster Partridges with Cabbage, &c.' Fillets of Fowl larded Turban of Fillets of Rabbit, Espagnole sauce Cassolettes of Salpicon of Beef Palates Mutton Cutlets, Soubise sauce Tendrons of Veal puree of Endive Lark Patty with Truffles SECOND COURSE. Quatre Becasses Deux Faisants Un Chapon au cresson Perdreaux rdtis Petits Pates garnis de conserves Salsifis d l’Espagnole Champignons ii la poulette Gel6e de Ponche Sufidoise de Pommes Qlufs poches aux dpinards Friture d’Huitres Creme d’Orange Four Woodcocks roast Two Pheasants Capon garnished with cresses Partridges roast Fancy Pastry garnished with conserves Salsify Espagnole sauce Mushrooms poulette sauce Punch Jelly Suedois of Apples Poached Eggs on dressed Spinach Friture of Oysters Orange Cream RELEvfes REMOVES Petits Ramaquins de Fromage Vanille Soufflee Boudin de Citron Tourte de conserves de Prune Small Ramaquins of Cheese A^anilla Soufflee Lemon Pudding Tart ot preserved green gages The Soups and Fish to be served first the Entries and Removes next, and after the Second Course the four Removes in place of the Roasts.BILL OF FARE FOR TWENTY PERSONS. (See Plate). FIRST COURSE. JUNE. r Though the Soups, Fish, and Entries appear here to be on table at the same time, it is preferred to send the Soups and Fish first, shortly after them the Entries, and then the Removes for the Soups and Fish. The last course being served, the four Removes will take the places of the Roasts as seen above. When Turtle is served, it is well to have a plain Soup on the side table. The Plateau remains down the middle of the table throughout the dinner. There must be plenty of plain boiled vegetables on the side table. Deux Terrines de Potage a la Tortue Two Tureens Turtle Soup Un Dore, sauce aux homards Dorey boiled, lobster sauce Filets de Soles avec du Chambord, &c. Fillets of Soles, Chambord sauce Merlans frits, sauce de cbevrettes Whitings fried, shrimp sauce Tranches de Saumon it la Genevoise Slices of Salmon, Genevoise sauce RELEVES Une Hanche de Venaison Une Longe de Veau farcie it la creme Poitrine de Bceuf it la Macedoine Trois Petites Poulettes aux clioux-fleurs, &c Croustarde de Mouton aux pommes de terre, &c. Quenelles eu Casserole gamies de filets de Lapereaux, &c. ENTREES REMOVES Haunch of Venison, sauce of port wine and currant jelly Loin of Veal stuffed, sauce a la creme Stewed Beef, Macedoine sauce Three Chickens, cauliflowers, sauce veloute Raised Pie, saute Mutton, potatoes, sauce Italienne Quenelles of Rabbit in Casserole of Rice, with fillets larded ENTREES Cailles aux truffes Quails with truffles Trois Ris de Veau piques auxpois franqais Sweetbreads larded, stewed peas Cotelettes d’agneau, glacees aux epinards Lamb Cutlets saute, with spinach stewed Filets de Cannetons au jus de Bigarade Fillets Ducklings, with Seville orange Petites Timbales de Laitances de Maquereau Timbales, or Patties, of soft roes of mackarel Escallopes de Poularde aux filets de con- Escallops of Fowl, with Fillets ofCucumbers combres Soupe Julienne Turtle Soup SIDE TABLE.'. Saddle Mutton Shrimp Patties Cold Raised Pie of Pheasant Ham braised SECOND COURSE. Levraut roti au cresson Dindonneaux, &c. Deux Canards, £tc. Des Cailles rflties Gel6e de vin avec des fraises Creme de Cederatte Gelee de Mosaic T’ourte de Cerises Artichauts it la barigoule Haricots verts it la pouletto Une Salade Italienne Petits Pois it la franqaise RELEVES Fondue au Parmesan Gftteax de Creme Punier de Chantilly Leveret roast, with cresses Turkey Poults, ditto Ducklings, ditto Quails, ditto Jelly garnished with strawberries Cederrtte Cream Mosaic Jelly Cherry Tart Artichokes it la barigoule French Beans, sauce poulette Italian Salad Stewed Peas REMOVES Fondues of Parmesan Cream Cakes Chantilly BasketBILL OF FARE FOR SIX OR EIGHT PERSONS. DECEMBER OR JANUARY. [Fil'St CoUl'Se.BILL OF FARE FOR TWELVE PERSONS. OCTOBER Cfttelettes d’Agneau glac6es, sauce tom ate Petits Pates aux Iluitres Attelettes de Ilia de Veau a 1'Italieane Potage & In Jardiniere, relevc Truite Saumon£e, relev6e Selle Ae MoutonBILL OF FARE FOR TWELVE PERSONS. OCTOBER. [Second Course.January. [First Course. BILL OF FARE FOR EIGHTEEN PERSONS.BILL OF FARE FOR EIGHTEEN PERSONS. January. [Second Course.BILL OF FARE FOR TWENTY PERSONS. June. [First Course. Des Lscal- lopbs de Poulardes aux filets de con- combres Sr/ Des f/ tranches de V ' Saumon ala ' Genevoise, re- Levees par des Quenelles en Casserole garnie , de filets des - A JLapreanx , |V\ piques / Des Timbales de Lai- tances de Afaque- reau f/ Des V / Merlans frits, ' releves par une poitrine Baut'a la Ala . ccdoine Filets des iCannetons au jus I de I Bigarade Potage X it la Tortue, relev6 pnr une ; Longe de Veau fame a la cremeJune. [Second Course. BILL OF FARE FOR TWENTY PERSONS.iA DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, CONFECTIONERY, <SfC. $C. ALM ACID Sauce.—Pound the yolks of three hard eggs, one anchovy, with a pinch of salt and spices, half a glass of vineo-ar, and butter rolled in flour; add a little veal gravy, and thicken it like white sauce. ADMIRAL’S Sauce.—Chop an anchovy, seven or eight green rocamboles, simmer them on the fire with a little consommet salt, pepper, nutmeg, and butter rolled in flour. When ready, add a little lemon juice, or verjuice. ALMOND Biscuits.*—Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine sugar; then beat them up for a quarter of an hour with an ounce of flour, the yolks of three eggs, and four ounces of fine sugar, adding afterwards the whites of four- eggs whipped to a froth: have ready some paper moulds made like boxes, about the length of two fingers square; butter tbem within, and put in the biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities of flour and powdered sugar : bake in a cool oven, and when the biscuits are done of a o-00d colour, take them out of the papers. Bit- ter almond biscuits are made in the same manner, with this difference, that to two ounces of bitter almonds must be added one ounce of sweet almonds. Almond Biscuits.*—Take eight ounces teenWei Vnd “V"™7 bitter a|monds, fif- teen whites, and eight yolks of ego-s two ounces of flour and two pounds of powder sugar pour boiling water on your almonds, and almost immediately after turn that away and pour cold water on them; rub off the skins one by one with a napkin, then pound them to a paste in a mortar, moisten- ing them with the whites of two e-crS ALM Beat the fifteen whites to a snow, and the eight yolks with half the quantity of the sugar, and then mix them with the almond paste; put the remainder of the su»-ar into a basin; sift some flour over it; stir the mixture till all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, and pour it into small paper cases, glaze them with the sugar and flour sifted over them. Bake them in a pretty warm oven. Almond Biscuits (small).*—Beat up the yolks of three eggs for ten minutes with tour ounces of powder sugar and one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded • then add a w-hole egg, and beat it up five minutes longer. Whip the whites to a strong froth ; mix them and ail ounce and a half of fine sifted flour with the yolks - work this paste well, and then pour it into small well-buttered copper moulds melon- shaped; glaze them; sprinkle them with powder sugar, and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Almond Biscuits (souffles).* — Blanch ball a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into dice and dry tbem in the oven. Make a glaze with the whites of two new-laid eggs and powder sugar; mix the almonds and a pinch of crisped orange-flowers into tins, and put it into very small paper cases ; do not fill them above half full as they rise considerably in the oven, and would otherwise fall over and spoil their appearance; bake them in a moderately heated oven. As soon as they are pretty firm, they are done. 1 ^ Almonds (blown). _ Scald a few al- monds, and pound them to about half as fine as for biscuits, beat them with lemon juice, whites of eggs and powder sugar;ALM ALM 2 drop them on paper, about the size of al- monds, and dry them in a stove or gentle oven, Almonds (blown') a la Royale.*—Choose four ounces of small thick almonds, and put them into an oven until they are slightly coloured. Whilst they are cool- ing-, mix four ounces of sugar with an eg-g; beat them up for ten minutes ; add a little carmine to make it a line rose colour; dip the almonds into this; take them out; dis- engage them from the egg, so that they may he only just covered with it; lay them two and two on a sheet of strong paper ; three quarters of an inch between each pair; they may also he placed in threes to form the trefoil, on which may be added a fourth. Bake them in a cool oven. Almond Bread.—Take a pound of the best almonds, slice them the round way, beat and sift a pound of double-refined su- gar, and strew it over the almonds as you cut them, stirring them frequently to pre- vent their sticking together ; when all the sugar is used, put them into an earthen ba- sin, with a few caraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dissolved in rose water and strain- ed) , three grains of musk and ambergris dis- solved in fine sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a very light froth, and two spoonsful of fine flour : when well mixed, lay them on wafers the size of macaroons ; open them with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three pieces stick together; the quicker you lay them, the better they will look; put them into a well-heated oven, taking care they do not scorch ; when half baked, take them out, wash them with the white of an egg beaten to a froth, grate a little fine sugar over them, and bake them about half an hour longer. Almond Butter.—To a quarterof a pound of blanched almonds, well beat, put some new milk and rose water; take a quart of thick cream, and the yolks of twelve eggs, beat well, with alittle of the cream; thon add the rest of the cream ; put a quarter of a pint of new milk to the almonds, and strain them into the cream till there is no strength left: strain altogether into a skillet, set it over a charcoal fire, and stir it till it becomes a tendercurd ; ‘put it into a strainer, and hang it up till the whey is drained out; then take six ounces of fine-sifted sugar and a little rose water, and beat it all into butter with a spoon. Almond Cuke*—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet, and two large bitter al- monds, pound them very fine, with a little white of egg ; add to them about a quarter of a pound of fine powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, a macaroon, the yolks of two eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream : mix these ingredients well together with a little salt. Make an under crust of puff paste, and after having rolled it seven or eight times, cut it round, and put it in a cake-tin ; moisten the edges slightly, and pour on it the almond paste, and cover it with the puff paste, and join them closely. Wash it over with a very clear dorure, and with the point of your knife mark what or- nament you please on the surface. Let it bake in a moderately hot oven for about an hour; take it out and sprinkle it with sugar. Almond Cake.—Take eight ounces of Jordan, and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanch and pound them very fine; then beat in with the almonds the yolks of eight eggs, and whisk up the whites to a solid froth. Then take eight table-spoonsful of sifted sugar, five spoonsful of fine flour, a small quantity of grated lemon peel and pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingredients. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh but- ter, fill it with the mixture and bake it of a light colour. Almond Cake.*—Put a quartern of flour upon a pie-board, and make a hole in the middle to receive a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and six ounces of sweet al- monds pounded very fine; knead thewhole, and form it into a cake; bake, and glaze it with sugar and a hot salamander. Another way.—Weigh three eggs in their shells, take the same weight of flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated loaf sugar. Pound with these ingredients three ounces of sweet almonds blanched; add a little grated lemon peel, or orange-flower water, and the whites and yolks of three eggs. Continue pounding till the whole forms a smooth paste. Butter the bottom of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with fire above and below. fi his cake may be served either hot or cold, with grated sugar over it. Almond (bitter) Cuke.*—Pound three ounces (half bitter and half sweet) of al- monds, put them into an earthen pan with six ounces of powder sugar; the same of sifted flour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, a spoonful of brandy, and a grain or two of salt; work these up together for five mi- nutes, and then add six ounces of fresh butter which is slightly warmed, work that in for four minutes longer. Then, having whipped the whites of two eggs, mix them into the paste. Butter a well-tinned cop- per mould or paper case, ten inches long,ALM ALM i) 2 five wide, nnd two high ; pour in j’our preparation, and bake it in a cool oven. While baking, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix two ounces of powder sugar with them, and cut four ounces of sweet al- monds into slips (shortwise) ; mix them also with two ounces of powder sugar and a spoonful of white of egg whipped. In three quarters of an hour take out the cake, and if it be firm and well coloured, cover it with the whipped egg and sugar, and on that strew the almonds equally, pressing them in, that all may be coloured alike. This operation must be performed as quick as possible, and when done, turn the cake out and cut it in four slips (lengthwise), and then divide each into six parts lozenge- shaped ; this will give you twenty-four cakes, which must be arranged in stars on jmur dish, six to every star. They may also be cut in two lengths instead of four, and these divided into fifteen small pieces’ and then, with a paste-cutter, formed into crescents. The ingredients, and the pro- per quantities for this cake, are as follows : six ounces of flour, the same of powder sugar, three ounces of sweet and bitter almonds, six yolks, and two whole eggs, six ounces of butter, two of sugar mix'ed with the whites of two eggs whipped, four ounces of cut almonds added to the sugar and eggs, a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. Almond Small Cakes. (Spanish.)*— Two ounces of bitter almonds blanched and beaten to a paste with a little white of egg; add to them one pound of flour dried, one pound of sugar pounded fine and five ounces of butter, mix them well together and let it stand some time before tlie fire: then add three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; drop 'them WetEl!” 'Umi“ "th “ “• *» Almond (small) Cakes.*—Blanch half a pound of almonds, pound them to a paste pound of powder sugar, one of orange flowers pralmce, nnd about two ounces of creme pdtnsiere ; tgko some puff paste rod tt out very thin, cut it into^maH square pieces, lay them on a baking-plate? and put some of the above mixture on each moisten the edges, cover them with the puff paste, c ores, prick and bake them in a hot oven, when done, ice them with sumir Almond (solid) Cake.*-T ako C pounds of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them wit]! a pound them with the whites’of four egBe ■ then add the zestes of two lemons sided,’ two pinches of orange flowers pralinde, a little salt, two pounds of powder sugar, a quarter of a pound of potato flower, and twelve whole eggs ; mix all together wed, and put it into a buttered mould, and bake it in a slow oven. Almond Candy.*—Blanch a pound of new Jordan almonds, and cut them very tlnn lengthwise, put them into a pound of clarified sugar to crisp them, stir them over the fire till boiled to souffle ; then take them off and keep stirring till the sugar is dry like sand; then sift it, so that the almonds may be left, divide them into four parts to colour them differently one part red, the second yellow, the third green, and the fourth left white as they come from the sugar. To colour the first, soak a small quantity of carmine in clari- fled sugar, and lay your almonds in it; do the same with a little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and spinach juice for the green. Place the coloured almonds on a sieve in a stove ; when dry, mix all t.o^e ther, adding the white ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould will require fo souffle, pUt it in, and when the almonds are quite dry, garnish the surface of the sugar with them ; do not, however, lay them too thick, and just press them down with a fork; put the mould into a moderate oven for five hours, then drain it well, and in another two hours it may be taken from the mould. Almond Cheesecakes.* — Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, lay them in cold water all night; the next morning blanch them in cold water ; then take them out and dry them on a clean cloth, beat them very fine in a little orange-flower water - then take six eggs, leave out four whites’ with a little beaten mace ; beat them well in a marble mortar ; take ten ounces of fiesh butter, melt it, add a little grated ^ernon pee1 and put them in the mortar with the other ingredients ; mix all well S tl1' anC •fi/1 i7°Ur Patt7*Pans, having fined them with tlnn puff-paste. Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few bitter' with a spoonful 0f water; then add four ounces n Sp°°nful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten • mix •dl ns quick na possible ; put into’ very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm oven twenty minutes. 1 ' ' Almonds (Cinnamon). — (Spanish.)* Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of nutter tied in n piece of cloth, rub the pan and brown them. Have ready some4 ALM ALM clarified sugar, with powdered cinnamon stirred in it, put in the almonds, and when well covered with the sugar and cinnamon, lay them separately on tins, and dry in a slow oven. Almonds (To Colour).*—Almonds (rose coloured.)—Blanch and cut sweet almonds in small pieces, put them on a baking-plate, and pour on them a little of any vegetable liquid, of an infusion of cochineal, or carmine ; then ruh them in your hands, to mix them well with the colour; when all are so done, dry them in a stove or in the oven. Almonds (violet).—Are done in the same way, the colouring ingredients are cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved in water, put hut a small quantity of the latter at a time, as it is very powerful. Almonds (green).—The same proceed- ing : the colour is made with two liandsful of fresh spinach, well washed, drained, and then pounded; when very fine, press it through a napkin ; let the juice drop on a dish, which place on a hot stove; as soon as it begins to hoil, take it off, stir- ring it constantly, till the green curdles, then pour it through a horsehair sieve, and when well drained ruh it through a silk sieve or tammy; the juice thus ob- tained, will give the almonds (which must he put in a few at a time) a clear and even green colour. Almonds (blue).—Dissolve a little in- digo in water, strain it through a cloth and use it as above mentioned. _ Almonds (orange coloured).—Mix alittle liquid red, and a little infusion of saffron together, and proceed with the almonds as Almonds (lemon coloured).—Infuse a small quantity of saffron in nearly boiling water for a few minutes ; strain and follow the above direction. Almonds (chocolate coloured).—Are dyed with chocolate dissolved in water and strained. The almonds mag he cut in slips, dice, &c. according to fancy. Observe that the colour of your almonds should be light and delicate ; when done, place them, either separately or mixed together, in paper cases. r t»i i Almonds ([burnt) Conserve of. Blanch and cut six ounces of sweet almonds into small strips, lay them on paper and put them into an oven ; when they arc brown, take them out, and throw them into two wounds of sugar boiled to petit casse ; stir the mixture well until it begins to blow, and then pour it into paper cases or moulds. Almond Coupeaux.*—Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, with the whites of three eggs, into a very fine paste, add to it six ounces of powdered sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; when tho- roughly mixed together, pour over it about four spoonsful of orange-flower water: stir up the paste (which ought to be rather thin) once more, and then lay it with a spoon on a plate of bright copper, in an oval form, about three or four inches in length. The plate being quite full, take it up by both hands, and strike it steadily upon a table, so that the paste may be ex- tended, but not much ; then bake them until they become of a deep yellow. Take them from the copper with a knife, and whilst hot put them on a wooden roller, about the thickness of an arm, and press them with your hand, that they may ac- quire the form of the wood, and when cool place in a box, and keep them dry. These coupeaux are very brittle. Almond Cream*—Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds and pound them very fine ; whip up the whites of two eggs with a pint of milk and four ounces of powder sugar; boil the milk over a gentle fire till reduced to a quarter, then add the almonds, let it boil a minute or two; pour in a spoonful of orange-flower water. 11 hen cold, “■arnish it with almonds au caramel. Almond Cream.—Put a pint of milk and a pint of cream, with a small bit of lemon peel, into a stewpan, to boil very gently for twenty minutes; in the mean while, blanch and pound very fine, three ounces of sweet almonds and half an ounce of bitter almonds ) then take the milk and cream from the fire, into which (while hot) stir the pounded almonds with the yolks of two or three eggs and clarified sugar (boiled to caramel height) enough to sweeten it; then put the whole into a tammy, and, with a wooden spoon, well rub and squeeze it through ; do this a second time, then squeeze into the cream two ounces of well-clarified isinglass, the whole being together in a basin, have your mould ready in ice, into which put the cream ; when set, turn it out as any other ^Almond Cream.*—Take six ounces of sweet almonds, a pint of good milk, and five ounces of sugar; blanch the almonds and throw them into cold water; when well drained, pound them with a little water. Beat up in the milk the whites5 ALM ALM of two eggs, in w-liicli dissolve the sugar, and then boil it on a slow fire; when about a quarter of the quantity is wasted away, add to it the almond paste, boil these toge- ther once, put in a little orange flower, and strain it. Let it stand, and when cold serve it, garnish it with almonds au caramel broiled, disposed according to your taste. Almonds (Crisped).*—Rub a pound of the best sweet almonds in a cloth to take oft' all the dust, and then put them, with a pound of sugar, half a glass of water and a little carmine, into a preserving-pan ; put them on a fire, and let them remain • when the almonds crackle take them oft" and work them about until the sugar is detached from the almonds, then take away part of the sugar, put the almonds on the Are again, and stir them lightly with a spatula (be careful that the fire be not too quick); and when they have taken the sugar, add that which had been removed, and continue to burn them till they have imbibed that also. Place a sheet of paper on a sieve, throw your almonds on it, separate those which adhere together, and let them cool. Almond Custards.—Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoon- ful of water; beat a pint of cream with two spoonsful of rose water, and put to them the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet, then add the almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness, but not to boil. Pour it into cups. Another way.—Add to a pint and a half ot cream a small stick of cinnamon, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon peel, some nutmeg and sugar to the taste ; boil them together ten minutes, and strain it; then blanch and pound three ounces of Jordan and eight single bitter almonds ; after which rub through a hair sieve, add the me pulp to the cream, likewise a little syrup ot roses and the yolks of six eggs beaten up, and put the mixture into small rim nj- °rw milJ' be bilked in 11 dish with a nm ot puft paste round it. Almonds (Devilled). — Blanch half a pound of Jordan almonds, and wipe them dry; then put into a fryingpan two ounces of fresh butter, make it hot, add the almonds, fry them gently till of a good brown colour, drain them on a hair sieve ;:rc^«ne pepper and salt, and servo them up hot. Almond Dragees.—Take of the best and largest almonds what quantity you please, and having washed them in cold water, let them drain and dry on a sieve for twenty-four hours. The next day weigh them, and for each pound of almonds take three pounds of sugar; clarify the latter and boil it to the degree petit lisse; then let it cool a little. Have your tossing- pan ready; on your right hand, a chafing- dish to keep your pan containing the svrup constantly warm; and on your left band, a table with a mixture of powder and flour (of each half a pound to a pound of almonds). All being ready, put the al- monds into the pan, and pour over them one or two large spoonsful of the syrup, and shake them so that all the almonds may be wetted with syrup ; then take a handful or two of the flour and powder, and strew it over the wet almonds ; shake them again, that the flour may adhere all round the almonds. After this, swing- the pan backwards and forwards, by which means the almonds roll about in every di- rection ; continue this motion until they become dry; then moisten and powder them as before ; swing the pan again, and when dry, repeat the process a third, fourth, and fifth time, or more, until they are oi proper size ; then pour over them the syrup for the last time, without the powder, and, having swung and dried them, take them out and place them on sieves in a warm place, that they may dry perfectly before you put them by for use. Observe, that after a few layers of the syrup, the superabundant parts of that and the powder form a white crust at the bottom of the pan ; as soon as it acquires any degree of thickness, the pan must be taken from the fire, the almonds carefully removed witli an iron spatula, and the crust broken otf; when the pan has been well washed and dried, replace the almonds and proceed with your work. This must be strictly attended to, not only with this, but in making all kinds of sweetmeats. 1 be sugar thus cleared away maybe made useful for many purposes. Common Almond 13rag6es are made in the same manner; the only difference consists in having ingredients of an in- terior quality. Almonds, English Fashion. — Mix al- monds and filberts scalded in equal quan- tities ; chop one half very fine, cut the rest each into two or three slices; put the whole in double their weight of sugar, prepared a la grande plume, with some lemon peel rasped ; stir the almonds veryALM ALM well in tlie sugar, taking it off the fire, and add one or two whites of eggs ; pour it in paper large enough to contain the •whole, and cut it in slices for use as you think proper, when baked as usual. Almonds (Milk of) Fanchonnettes.*— Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet and one of bitter almonds, and when the paste is very fine, add to it three glasses of nearly boiling milk, then press this mixture through a napkin to draw out the milk. Put into a stewpan four yolks of eggs, three ounces of powder sugar, one of sifted flour, and a grain of salt, mix them well together, and add by degrees the almond milk, put this on a moderate fire, stirring it constantly. Line about thirty tartlet moulds with thin puff paste, and put on them a little of the above pre- paration, and bake them in a moderate oven. When properly done, take them out and let them cool. Mix with the whites of three hard eggs, four ounces of powder sugar, stir it well to soften the egg, and make it work easily ; put some of the remainder of your preparation on each of the fanchonnettes, and cover them lightly with the egg; put some white of egg on the blade of a large knife, and with a small one as quick as possible take off seven meringues about the size of a filbert, and arrange them in the form ot a crown on each funchonnette; when you have done five or six, cover them with powder sugar very equally, and then bake them in a cool oven. When of a reddish brown they are done and may be served. Almond Flummery.—Boil three ounces of hartshorn in two quarts ot spring wa- ter; let it simmer six or seven hours, till half the water is consumed; strain it through a sieve ; beat halt a pound ot al- monds very fine, with a quantity of orange- flower water ; mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar with it; strain it with the rest of the jelly, stirring it till it is a little more than blood warm ; pour it into basins or cups, and stick in almonds cut small. Almond Frase.—Blanch n pound of Jor- dan almonds, and steep them in a pint ot cream, ten yolks, and four whites ot eggs ; take out the almonds and pound them fine in a marble mortar ; then mix them again in the cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated bread, and stir them all together; then put some fresh butter into the pan, let it bo hot and pour it in, stirring it in the pan till they are of a sufficient consistence; and when enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over it, and serve it up. Almond Fritters.—Pound half a pound of sweet almonds, and six or eight bitter ones, orange flowers, chopped lemon peel, sugar in proportion, a handiul ot flour, and two or three whites of eggs ; pound all together sometime, adding a few drops of water, or more whites of eggs, to make it of a proper suppleness to roll into little balls; roll them in flour to fry as force- meat balls ; strew a little fine sugar powder upon them when ready to serve. Almonds (bitter) Fromage Bavarois of .* — Peel, wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and one ounce of hitter almonds, pound them to a paste, moistening with two spoonsful of water. Put them into an earthen pan, with two glasses of nearly boiling milk, in which eight ounces of sugar have been dissolved ; let this stand an hour, then strain it through a fine sieve, and put to it six drachms of isinglass lukewarm ; place the whole in ice, and when it begins to set, add some whipped cream; pour it into a mould which has been kept in ice, put it in ice again for half an hour, and then take the fromage from the mould. Almond Garlands.—lake half a pound of marchpane paste, the whites ot two or three e°*gs, some powdered cinnamon and a little "flour, knead them into a paste, and roll them into the form of sausages with your hand on the table, first strewing the table with almonds minced, but not very fine ; so that they may adhere to the sau- sages, which ought to be about the size ot vour finger ; then form them into rings or garlands of what size you please, fixing the"ends together with water: place them on paper, and bake them in a quick oven until they are of a clear brown colour. Almond (bitter) Petits Giiteaux royaux.* —Pound six drachms of bitter almonds. Strain them through a sieve, and mix them in an earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an e<rg, and six ounces ot sugar; stir these with a silver spoon for a few mi- nutes. Take three quarters of a pound of puff paste, roll it to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cut out of it thirty oval cakes (two inches and a half long by- two and a quarter wide) pointed at the ends ; put on each a quarter of a spoonful of the almond glaze, and with the blade of a knife spread it equally oyer the surface for about the eighth of an inch, and then let. them stand for half an hour before you put them into the oven, which must beALM 7 ALM moderate. If you bake them immediately after putting on the glaze, it wrinkles and shrivels up, which spoils their appearance, as they ought to be quite smooth and even ; the cakes also require considerable care in the baking; they should be slight- ly coloured on the top and the lower part reddish. Almond ('bitter) Genoises.* — Blanch two ounces four drachms of sweet, and two ounces and a half of bitter almonds, pound them to'a paste and then put them into the following preparation: Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and when perfectly smooth mix them in an earthen pan with six ounces of flour, the same of powder sugar, six yolks and two whole eggs, a spoonful of brandy and a grain of salt. Stir the whole for six mi- nutes, then add six ounces of butter slightly warmed but not melted; work the butter well into the paste for four or Jive minutes. Butter two moulds, or pa- per cases, about nine or ten inches square, pour in your preparation, smooth it with the blade of a knife, and then put them to bake in a moderate oven, first strewing on them four ounces of sweet almonds minced and mixed with two ounces of powd el- sugar, and a little White of egg. When done, cut them into all possible forms, then replace them into the oven to dry ; when brittle, take them out, let them cool' and decorate them to your fancy, Almond (brou-n) Gingerbread.—Beat a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds with thin gum water, a few drops of le- mon juice, a little powdered cinnamon, and some ginger finely grated and seered to give it a brown colour; sweeten and smooth it well, roll it out thin, and cut it into squares; dry it in a stove or before the fire. Almonds, Grillage of.*-Blanch half a pound of almonds, cut them into four or hve slips, lengthwise, pralinez them with three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand them when they begin to crackle ; then put them on the fire again till they aro wel nuxed together and form a mass, lJ fj,114 ,on wafer Paper Hghtly oiled, lay it flat, strew over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or white nonpareils, and then cut it m pieces. Almonds, Grillage of* ~ Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into mur pieces longwise; put them on the of w a ‘ e? WK C *?“; With four ounces of water, and a pound of sugar ; when tho almonds crackle, take them from the (ire and with a wooden spoon, stir them about to cover them well; add some lemon peel grated; cover the fire and put the pan on again, stirring the almonds constantly until they have taken the ca- ramel colour ; then place a layer of non- pareil on a dish, spread over it a layer of the grilluge, then the nonpareil and gril- lage alternately, until all your preparation is used : dry it then in a stove. Almond Hog’s Pudding.—Chop fine a pound of beef marrow; blanch and beat fine a pound of sweet almonds with a lit- tle orange flower or rose water; grate fine half a pound of white bread, wash and pick half a pound of currants, a quarter ot a piound of sugar, equal quantities of mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, making altogether a quarter of an ounce, and halt a pint of sack or mountain wine. Mix all well together, with half a pint of good cream and the yolks of four eggs. Bill the guts half full, tie them up and boil them for a quarter of an hour, prick them as they boil to keep the guts from bursting. The cur- rants m ay be left out, in which case a quartet- of a pound more sugar must be added. Almond Icing for Bride Cuke The whites of six eggs, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, a pound of Jordan almonds blanched and pounded with a little rose water; mix altogether and whisk it well for an hour or two, lay it over the cake and put it in the oven. Almond Knots.—Take two pounds of almonds, and blanch them in hot water; beat them in a mortar, to a very fine pasted with rose water, be careful to' keep them from oiling. Take a pound of double-re- fined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out some to make up the knots, put the rest in a pan upon the fire, till it is scalding hot, at the same time have the almonds scalding hot in another pan ; then mix them together with the whites of three eggs beaten to froth, and let it stand until it is cold ; then roll it with some of the sugar left out for that purpose, and lay them in platters of paper. They will not roll into shape, therefore lay them ns well as may be, and bake them in a slow oven. Almond ( Bitter) Macaroons.*—Take ft pound of bitter almonds, rub them well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste with the whites of three or four eggs ; then put them into an earthen pan with three pounds of powder sugar, mix them together well, and if the paste should be too dry, moisten it with white of egg. Brop it on sheets of paper in lumps aboutALM 8 ALM the size of a walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. Almond (sweet) Macaroons.* — Are done in the same way. But two pounds of sugar are sufficient for a pound of al- monds. Almond Milk.*—Take six ounces of sweet almonds, and a pint of milk, four drachms of orange-flower water, and five ounces of sugar. Blanch and pound the almonds to a very smooth paste, moisten- ing them occasionally with a few drops of milk; when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk and mix them well, and boil it till reduced to half, then let it boil up once more ; let it cool, and serve. Almond Milk, as prepared at Mexico.* —Pound blanched almonds as fine as pos- sible, with a small quantity of loaf sugar ; keep adding a little water whilst pound- ing. About twelve almonds carefully beaten will produce a pint of milk. A marble mortar must be used. Almond Rice Milk. (Spanish.)*—To half a pound of rice boiled to a pulp, when the water is drained, add five pints of almond milk ; put it in by degrees, stir- ring it with a wooden spoon whilst boiling slowly, till it is of the consistence of clotted cream. In the last boiling, which should be an hour and a half, at least, from the commencement, add powdered sugar. Almond Mirlitons.*—Blanch an ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter almonds, and dry them in an oven; when cold, pound them with a little white of egg to prevent their oiling; then put them into an earthen pan with two ounces of bitter macaroons, five ounces of powder sugar, four whole eggs, and a grain of salt; when these are weil mixed together, add two ounces of butter, lukewarm. Make a proper quantity of puff paste, roll it out thin, and cut it into thirty round pieces about two inches and three quarters in diameter, and put each oi these into a tartlet mould buttered ; put the mirlitons on this, and when all are equally full, co- ver them with powder sugar sifted over them through a tammy ; as soon as that is dissolved strew more (but not such fine) powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Almond Monceaux.* — 1 eke halt a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into thin slips (lengthwise) and roast them on an iron until they are of a deep yellow colour, inclining to brown; beat up the whites of six or eight eggs with a spoon in an earthen pan. Pour over the almonds a pound of sugar finely powdered, four ounces of candied orange peel, the same of candied lemon peel, also cut into thin slips, half a spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and six or eight cloves pounded; mix these ingredients well in the pan, and place it on paper in little heaps of a pyra- midal form, and bake them in a well-heat- oven. Almonds (bitter) Mosaic Tartlets.*— Pound three ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds, to a fine paste, and put it within the tartlets made as directed under that article. Almond Paste.*—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold water for twelve hours, then dry them in a napkin, and pound a quarter of them to a veiy fine paste with a little water and lemon juice, pass them through a sieve, and then pound the remainder (half a pound at a time). When all are done, mix them with a pound of sifted sugar; place them over a gentle fire, stirring it continually, until the paste will flow from the spoon ; then pour it into a mortar, and when it becomes lukewarm, pound it again with an ounce of gumdragon previously dissolved in a glass of water and strained, the juice of two lemons, and a pound of sifted sugar. As soon as your paste is of the proper consistence, take it out and lay it on the slab, sprinkled first with sugar; divide your paste into three parts, and colour each part according to your fancy. The colouring of dyes are made of the same materials as are used for almonds. Almond Paste (to keep six, or even twelve months).* — Blanch and pound a pound of sweet almonds, moistened occa- sionally with water, to prevent their oil- ing ; when well beaten, add half a pound of fine powdered sugar, and mix the whole into a paste to use when you have occa- sion. When wanted, mix a piece about the size of an egg with three gills of wa- ter, and strain it through a napkin. Almonds a la Praline (dried, preserved, or burnt).* —A pound of the best almonds must be washed in cold water; when thoroughly dry, put them into a preserv- ing-pan with a pound of sugar and a pint and a half of water, keep them on the fire, stirring them continually, until they crackle and fl v about, and the sugar begins to colour, stir them about gently to gather the sugar, and leave them in the pan to drv about two hours, in a stove or any moderate heat.ALM ALM 9 Almonds a la Praline Rouge.—Prepare them as above until they have taken the sugar and are ready to be taken off the the fire, put the almonds upon a sieve with a dish under, take the sugar that drops, and put it into the same pan, add- ing a little fresh ; refine it till it comes to the twelfth degree (au cassd), then take cochineal, colour sufficient to tinge the almonds, and put them therein; give them a few turns over the fire in the sugar, and finish as at first. Almond Pudding (to bake'). — Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, in warm water; pound them in a marble mortar with two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and two of rose wa- ter, and a gill of sack; mix in four grated Naples biscuits, three quarters of a pound of melted butter; beat eight eggs, and mix them with a quart of cream boiled, grate in half a nutmeg, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; mix all well toge- ther ; make a thin puff paste, and lay all over the dish. Pour in the ingredients, and bake it. Almond Pudding (baked).—Steep foui ounces of crumbs of bread sliced in a pirn and half of cream, or grate the bread ; ther beat half a pound ofblanclied almonds very fine, till they become a paste, with two tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water: put in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar^ and stir in three or four ounces of melted butter; put it over the fire, and keep etiirmg until it is thick; lay a sheet oi paper at the bottom of a dish, and pour in the ingredients. To bake half an hour. Almond Pudding, as prepared at Mexico. One pound of blanched almonds, one pound of powder sugar, twelve yolks of ep and eight whites well beaten to^e- ther, and baked in a flour and water crust. ■1 bis is also used for puffs. Almond Pudding.*—Blanch and beat a pound of sweet almonds with a little rose water, mix a pound of bread grated, a vnU™68/ -la f a p0Und of butter. and the ioure,l°f S!f eg8S ; boil il pint of cream co- loured with a very little saffron, add it to eggs and a little flour, knead it well and then put in the almonds, beating it up till al! is mixed together. Boil it for half an hour in a buttered cloth. Almond Puffs.-Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, and beat them fine with orange-flower water, whisk the whites of three eggs to a high froth, strew in a lit- tle sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and add more sugar till as thick as paste. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool oven. Almond Puree.*—Boil the crumb of a very light roll in a pint of fish broth, boil it slowly until nearly dissolved, then mix in with it a few sweet and two bitter al- monds, and three yolks of eggs pounded, and moistened with the same broth. Stir altogether, pass it through a tammy, di- luting it with more broth when too thick. Almond Rice.—Blanch sweet almonds and pound them in a marble mortar; mix them in a little boiling water; press them as long as there is milk in the almonds, adding fresh water every time; to every quart of almond juice, put a quarter of a pound of rice and two tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water; mix them all to- gether, and simmer it over a slow charcoal fire; stir it repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at pleasure; serve it with beaten cinnamon strewed over. Almond (bitter) Rolls.*—Blanch and pound eight ounces of almonds (five of sweet and three of bitter) to a vffry fine paste; then place eight ounces of flour on your slab; make a hole in the middle, and put into it eight ounces of powder sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and a grain of salt; mix them all well together into a firm, smooth paste; roll it out and cut it into four equal parts; roll each piece to the same length; cut them into pieces about the size of a walnut, and form them to the shape of a turnip, and as you do them put them on a baking-tin lightly buttered; dorez them and bake them of a proper colour in a moderate oven. When they are taken from the oven, let them stand a little while to dry. Almond (bitter) Souffle Francis.*— 1 ound four ounces of bitter almonds to a fine paste as usual, then throw them into boiling milk (nine glasses) and three quarters of a pound of sweet macaroons; cover this for a quarter of an hour, and then strain it through a napkin. lu the mean time wash a pound of Carolina rice in several waters, warm; put some cold water into a saucepan, and when it has boiled a few minutes, add to it the rice in a sieve and the infusion of almonds; when well boiled, put the saucepan on hot ashes, that the rice may burst gradually. In threo quarters of an hour''put to it ten ounces of powder sugar, three quarters of a pound of good fresh butter, and a pinch of salt, stir them in well, put fresh cinders under the saucepan, and let it boil gently for an hour; then, if the lice is quiteALM ALM 10 tender, press it through a tammy as for puree, and put it again on hot ashes to keep it hot. Whip up sixteen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and when pretty firm, take your rice cream from the lire and stir into it the sixteen yolks ; this mixture should be of the consistence of creme patissiere, if it be thicker, dilute it with a little liquid whipped cream. Take at first a quarter of the whipped eggs, stir it as lightly as possible, then, by degrees, mix in the rest. Have ready a croustade eleven inches in diameter, and three inches and three quarters high, but very thin ; wrap round this three sheets of buttered paper, and bake it; when your preparation is thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into the croustude, and bake for about one hour and a half in a moderate oven. When nearly ready to serve, place hot cinders on a large baking-plate, take the souffld from the oven, put it on them, and while there cover it with powder sugar, and glaze it with the salamander. Carry it to the dining-room as quick as possible, remove it carefully from the cinders, and place it in the dish with a napkin underneath, take away the buttered papers, and the souffle is then ready. Almond Milk Soup.*—Take half a pound of sweet almonds, put them on the fire with some water until near boiling, then blanch and throw them into fresh water ; drain and pound them. Boil a pint of water, a little sugar, salt, cinnamon, cori- ander, and lemon peel, for a quarter of an hour, and rub the almonds through a sieve to this. Lay some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and pour the milk of almonds on it, as hot as possible without boiling. Almond (yellow) Sweetmeats.*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, wash them in cold water, and when quite dry, pound them with a sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs, into a fine hut rather stiff paste : add to them a pound of powdered sugar and the rinds of two lemons grated ; knead the paste well witli your hands, first sprinkling the table with sugar. Form the paste into what figures you please, such as fleur-de-lis, trefoil, &c., each being about the size and weight of a macaroon. Place them on white paper and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- derately hot stove. If they are of a deep yellow, they are sufficiently done.—'these sweetmeats may be still further orna- mental in the following manner: Boil some sugar in orango-flower water to the degree called grande plume, and ns soon ns the sweetmeats are taken from the stove or oven, wash them over with a light brush dipped in the syrup ; this will give them a delicious perfume, and they may then be called a la glace. When cold, take them from the paper and put them into glasses for the table. Almonds d la Terra Alicante (Spanish).* —Clarify honey, and stir into it as many blanched almonds as you can entangle. Leave it to cool. This makes a pretty crystalline ornament for the dessert; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar, Almond Tumbles.—Blanch and pound three ounces of almonds very fine, when almost beaten enough, take the white of an egg beaten to froth, one pound of double- refined sugar well beaten, and put it in by degrees, working it into a paste with your hands; roll it out and bake it on buttered plates in a hot oven. Almond IVafers.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, add a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of orange flowers pralinee, put them into a basin, and moisten them with a sufficient quantity of whites of eggs to enable you to spread the paste on wafer paper with the blade of a knife (the wafer paper must be rubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil) ; lay the preparation on as thin as possible; chop some sweet almonds very small, mix them with sugar, and strew them over the wafers, and put them into a hot oven; when about half baked, take them out and cut them in squares ; replace them a minute in the oven, take them out again, and press them on a stick to give them the proper form; as soon as they are cold, put them on a sieve. J ust before they are served they should be slightly warmed. Almond (green) Compote of*—lake the peel very carefully from your almonds, and put them 'with water on the fire till they are tender ; then take them off and add a little more water ; when nearly cold put them on the fire again, but do not let them boil; as soon as you find the head of a pin will penetrate easily, they are then suffi- ciently done, and may be thrown into cold water; and when the truit is quite cold drain them. In the mean time put some clarified sugar on the fire, and when it boils put in the almonds ; boil them in the sugar about twenty times, then remove them, and let the almonds stand to take the sugar: in about two hours time put them on the fire again, and boil them up a dozen times ; after which, take them off, skim, and let them cool. M hen quite coolALM 11 ANC drain andputtho fruit in a compotier. If the sugar should not be sufficiently done, boil it as much more as you may think necessary ; squeeze in the juice of an orange, boil it once again, and when nearly cold strain it through a cloth into the compotier over the almonds. Almond (green) Marmalade.*—Take the down from green almonds as below; boil them till tender, throw them into cokl water, and then set them to drain; break and pass them through a sieve; put the marmalade on the fire to dry it, and for each pound put a pound of sugar, and half a pint of water; boil and skim it, until, on dipping your finger first in cold water, then in the sugar, itcomes off clean ; when you put it in the water again, add the mar- malade; heat, but not boil, both together, and then put it into pots. Almond (green) Nonpareils. — Drain some green almonds that have been pre- served in brandy ; dip them one by one in sugar prepared au casse, and roll them in white, or any other coloured nonpa- reils, and dry them in a stove, or gentle oven. Almond (green) Pickle.*—Boil vinegar according to the quantity of pickle you wish to make; skim it well, and add to it mace, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper; cut your almonds, (which should be quite young and soft,) in halves ; put them into jars, and pour the vinegar over them. Take care to have in each jar sufficient liquor to cover the almonds. Almond (green) Preserved.*—Put some water into a saucepan, with two handsful of bran, and when it has boiled up twice, throw in some green almonds; let them boil up once, then take them out with a skimmer, and rub them well in your hands to take off the down; as you do this, throw them into cold water; then boil them in water till, on pricking them, a pin easily enters and they shrink : then clarify some sugar, a pound to a pound of fruit; boil up the syrup four or five successive days inorung !md evening, without the fruit! which you leave to drain upon a sieve • lastly, put the fruit into a pan, and when rather more than lukewarm, pour the syrup r.;L”XS.loot >o'”re“ Almond (green) Tarts.—Pull almonds from the tree before they shell; scrape off the down with a knife, and put them into a pan with cold water as fast as they are done; then put them into a skillet with more spring water, over a very slow fire, till they simmer. Change the water twice, and let them lie in the lust till tender; put them between two dry cloths and press them dry. Make a syrup with double-re- fined sugar, and put them to simmer a little ; repeat this the next day; put them in a stone jar and cover them close, as they turn black if exposed to the air. The yellower they are when in the water, the greener they wil 1 be afterwards. Put them into a sugar crust, lay the lid close, and cover them with syrup, and bake in a mo- derate oven. Almond (green) Tarts may also be made like any other fruit tart, but the almonds must be very young and cut in half. AMBER Pudding.—Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, witli three quar- ters of a pound of powder sugar; when melted and well mixed together, add the yolks of fifteen eggs beaten, and as much candied orange beaten to a paste as will give colour and flavour to it. Line the dish with paste for turning out, and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten hot or cold. AMIENS Pie.—Make a paste with about half a pound of flour, a pound of butter, salt, and warm water, and let it stand two hours before you use it. Truss a couple of ducks as for boiling; singe them well on a charcoal fire, and lard them with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, laurel powder, thyme, basil, nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon, and coriander; make a pretty thick raised pie, and cover the ducks in it with slices of bacon and plenty of good butter; finish the pie, and bake it about three hours in a middling oven, then let it cool some time : mix three or four spoons- lul of rich jelly broth, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and one spoonful of good brandy ; boil these up together, and when the pie is about halt cold, pour in the sauce, shake it well to disperse the gravy properly. The ducks should be stewed “ la braise before thev are put into the pie ANCHOVIES.*—Wash half a dozen anchovies, and take the meat from the bones; cut them into four fillets, place them on a dish with some sweet herbs, chopped fine ; and the yolks and whites of hard eggs, also cut small. Anchovy Butter.*'—Wash your ancho- vies carefully, take out the bones, and dry them ; then pound them in a mortar until they are reduced to a paste ; and mix this paste with double the quantity of fresh butter.ANC ANC 12 Anchovies (Essence of).—A pound of the best anchovies, two quarts of water, two bay leaves, some whole pepper, a little scraped horseradish, a little thyme, two blades of mace, six sbalots chopped small, a gill of port wine, half the rind of a lemon, a gill of catsup; boil them together for twenty minutes, then rub them through a tammy with a wooden spoon. When cold, put it into pint bottles, cork them close, and keep in a dry place. Anchovies (Farce fine of).*—Clean, take out the salt and bones from as many large anchovies as will afford you ten ounces of fillets, which simmer in four ounces of butter, with two spoonsful of sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and five drachms of spiced salt. When cold, pound the anchovies for ten minutes with six ounces of milk panada ; after that, add to them the butter and herbs, pound them to- gether for five minutes longer; then put in four ounces of crayfish butter and the yolks of three eggs ; pound them with the rest of the ingredients well, and then put it aside for use. Anchovies (Fried).—Make a batter of hour, a spoonful of oil, and a little white wine; take care that the batter is not too wet: having taken the salt from the an- chovies, dip them in the batter, and fry them of a good colour. Anchovies in moulds.—Rub the inside of your moulds with butter, cut the an- chovies in narrow slips and soak them ; lay them in the moulds with well seasoned farce, and the breast of a roast fowl cut in slips, and bake them ; turn them into a dish with a little cullis sauce under them. Anchovy Omelet*—Wash the salt from a dozen anchovies, and lay them in cold water for a quarter of an hour; cut them in slips and place them on thin slices of bread fried in oil. Beat up a dozen eggs and season them well, put somo olive oil in a frying- pan, and when it begins to boil, put in half the eggs to form the omelet; when done, place it on a dish, and lay the anchovy toast on it; then form a second omelet with the jest of the eggs, and put it over the toast. Serve with any sauce you please. Anchovies with Parmesan.—Soak your anchovies well, and split each into four parts ; cut some bread to the same shape and size, and fry it; put a little cullis in the dish with chopped parsley, shalots, and grated parmesan; place the bread in this, and lay the anchovies on it. Pour over it a little cullis, and add a little lemon juice, cover it with bread crumbs and parmesan, and bake of a good colour. Anchovies (Petits Pates of).*—Roll out three quarters of a pound of puff paste into two thin layers, and cut them with a round paste-cutter, about two inches wide ; take up the cuttings, put them in the remain- der of the paste, roll it out tliin as before, place them on a baking-tin, slightly wetted, a quarter or half an inch apart; moisten them a little, and lay on each some farce fine of anchovies ; wash and scrape as many fillets of anchovies as you have petits pates, roll them into little balls, and place one on every p&te, then lay over it the puff paste, and press it down with another paste-cutter, half an inch less in diameter than the former; turn up the edges of the paste, dorez them highly, and bake them of a reddish colour in a quick oven. Anchovy Powder.—Pound the fish and rub them through a sieve, make into a paste with dried flour; roll it into thin cakes, and dry them before a slow fire. Pound it very fine, and put into well-corked bottles ; it will keep a long time. Anchovy Salad*—Dress young cos- lettuce as usual, garnished with eggs boiled hard and sliced, and herbs, &c. cut small. Add a dozen of anchovies well cleaned and cut in slips. Ancho.vies Stuffed.—Split, wash, and take the bones from the anchovies, and fill them with a good farce; dip them in a batter and fry of a good colour. Anchovy Sauce.—To about half a pint of melted butter, put two table-spoonsful of good essence of anchovies, with the juice of half a lemon. Serve very hot. Anciiovy Sauce au beurre.*—Reduce some sauce Espagnole, and just before you want it for table, put into it a piece of an- chovy' butter, about half the size of an egg, and some lemon juice : take care that the butter is warm, and keep stirring it, to mix it well with the sauce. If you should have no Espagnole, any brown sauce you please may' be used. Anchovy Toast.—Wash and bone as many anchovies as required, wipe them dry, and chop fine ; have ready some thin slices of bread nicely toasted and buttered, then spread your anchovies on, cut them into neat pieces, pass a hot shovel or salaman- der over them at a little distance, and serve very hot immediately. Anchovy Toast.*—Cut some thin slices of bread about the length and breadth ot a finger; fry them in oil. Place them on a dish, and pour on them a sauce made ofANG 13 oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsley, scal- lion, and shalots, cut up together. Then cut the anchovies into thin slices, and lay them on the toast. ANDAYE Brandy.*—An ounce of bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised co- riander seed, two ounces of powdered Florence iris, the zestes of two oranges; put them with three quarts of distilled brandy into the alembic bain-marie; dis- solve two pounds and a half of sugar in two pints and a half of clear river water, add them to the distilled liqueur, pass the whole through a strainer, and put into bottles. ANGELICA Cakes*—Take fourounces of angelica powder, and two pounds of fine sugar. Beat up the white of an egg with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the su- gar in a skillet and skim it; when it has boiled a little, throw in the angelica, and boil the sugar to petit cassd, then take it from the fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten egg, and stir it quickly till the sugar rises, then stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till it rises a second time; it may now be poured into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and sprinkled with sifted sugar. Angelica (essence of) Jelly.—Havino- washed and well dried two ounces of an- gelica roots ; cut them in pieces and throw them into boiling syrup, (three quarters of a pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised angelica seeds; cover the mixture olose aud when cold, add to it half a glass of mrschwasser, and pass it through a tammy ; then filter, and afterwards put to it an ounce of isinglass: stir it lightly with a silver spoon; pound ten pounds of ice and put it into a large sieve or pan, place your mould in the middle of the ice, takino- care that it touches the ice in every part” pour the jelly into the mould, cover it wt!fSTrePA lld’Putice on that, and have If] " ‘ ^ h°UrS 5 after that time in the mnyiaiSaUCuPanlargeenou&h t0 take wamZ^ eaSllyi fiU 11 "ith water so in ite III, 7 \fn scarcely bear your hand the wafer tf6 ‘e m°uld ln so as to allow le water to pass over the whole, but as qmckly as possible, and then turn the jelly into your dish for table. This last operation should be performed with gle agility. Observe, in making these kinds of jellies, that no tinned or pewter vessels or spoons should be used, as they Impart to? 6 .1!"^ *9 your jellies, which ouglu to be of the colour of the ingredients em- ANG ployed, as for instance the above should be a clear light green colour. Angelica Liqueur *—Wash, scrape, and cut in small pieces, twelve ounces of fresh, or half the quantity of Bohemian angelica roots, and infuse them for a week in six pints of brandy and one of water, with a drachm of mace, two drachms of cinnamon and twelve cloves; at the end of that time distil it, then dissolve three pounds of sugar in three pints of water; mix it with the liqueur, strain it through a jelly-ba°- or filter it through paper. Observe, that the best brandy for liqueurs is that which is made at Montpelier, as it yields more m distillation than the Cogniac. Take notice also that the first drops which fall from the alembic after it is placed on the stove, must not be mixed with the liqueur. A glass should, therefore, be placed under the mouth 0f the alembic to receive them and when about a quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and place your bottles or matrass. The phlegm, as these drop- pings are called, is good for nothin o- Angelica Paste— Take young and pithy angelica stalks, boil them till tender dram and press all the water out ■ beat them in a mortar to a paste, and rub it through a sieve. Next day dry it over the fire, and to every pound of paste put a pound of powder sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, stirring it tilT tho- roughly mixed, over a gentle fire. Drop it on plates, dust a little sugar over them and dry them in a stove. ’ Angelica (preserved)Take the stalks thevba 1Ca When °f ]g0od size- but before they have run to seed ; clear off the leaves and as you cut the stalks into p— lengths throw them into water and W tz 2 ? ”»»ft • tiom the fire, and put them into cold water; take off the skin, and ao-ain Tut them into cold water ; then drain” and put them into an earthen pan, and pour over a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to float the angelica. In twenty-four hours boH e sugar ten or a dozen times, and when ukenaim pour it over the stalks. pro_ ceed in the same way for four succeeding d.iys, after which, drain the stalks, and in the mean while boil the sugar (adding perld’ putethe8arj)rt0 ** ^ ^ perte, put the angelica to this, cover it Take itT1 6t, ltcb°U f,V° 0r six times, in pots. m re’ scum> and i,ut 11 by fiJli,GEvTCA. preserved dry).*— Proceed as lor the liquid, until you have pourod theAN! ANI 14 sugar an grand perle over tlie angelica; leave it for a day in the sugar, then drain and dry it on slates, or iron plates, in a stove. Angelica (Ratafia of).*—Take six pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three pounds of sugar, two ounces of fresh gathered angelica roots, the same quantity of angelica seeds; mace and clove, a drachm of each. Wash and dry the roots well, cut them in slices, and put them, with the seeds and spices bruised, into the brandy, to infuse for twenty days ; then strain it, and having added to it the sugar dis- solved in river water, filter and bottle your ratafia. Angelica Ratafia.*—Strip the angelica stalks of their leaves, and cut them into small pieces, which put into the best brandy and water, in the proportion of four litres of brandy and two of water to one pound of angelica, and four pounds of sugar to the same quantity; add cloves and cinnamon ; let it stand six weeks, then filter and bottle it. Angelica Tart.—Pare and core some good apples, peel angelica stalks, and cut an equal quantity of each into small pieces; boil the apples with lemon peel and sugar, in sufficient water to cover them, until reduced to a thin syrup, strain it, and then put it on the fire again, with the an- gelica, for about ten minutes. Lay a paste in the dish, and put layers of apples and angelica alternately till full. Fill up with syrup, and bake. Angelica Water.—Wash eight handsful of angelica leaves, cut, and lay them on a table to dry. When quite dry, put them in an earthen pot with a gallon of strong wine lees. Let it stand twenty-four hours, stir it twice in that time, then put it into a warm still or alembic; draw off into bottles, covered with paper pricked in boles, and let them stand thus two or three days. Sweeten it, and when it is settled, bottle, and stop it close. ANISE (small) Biscuits.*—Wash four drachms of starred anise, and dry it in the oven; work up the yolks ot fivo eggs and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, for about ten minutes ; whip the whites to a strong froth, and mix them lightly with the yolks ; add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted flour and the anise; pour this paste into a paper case, eleven inohos long by seven wide. Bake it in a slow oven for about forty or fifty minutes, when, if firm, take it out. As soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut the bistuits into what- ever forms you please ; dry them in the oven until they become brittle. Anise (Petites BouehUet of).—Rollout three quarters of a pound of puff paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it out with a round paste-cutter, two inches in diameter; then with a smaller paste-cutter (say the eighth of an inch less in diameter) than the first, cut thirty of these rounds into rings ; collect the cuttings of your paste and proceed in the same way. Moisten the upper side of the rounds to receive the rings, which press on lightly, and as you do them, wet them again slightly. When all your rings are so far done, sprinkle them equally and lightly with sugar, put them on a baking- tin, at equal distances, and bake them in a quick oven. When done, the bouchees should be of a clear reddish colour, some- thing like caramel sugar. Cover them with the whites of eggs whipped to a strong froth, and on this add red anise, and garnish them with cream blanche, white currant jelly, apricot or apple mar- malade. These bouchees may also be dona in a similar way with white anise, in which case they should be garnished with red currant jelly, or whipped cream a la rose. Aniseed Cahes.*—Put in an earthen pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and the yolks of ten eggs ; stir them together with a wooden spoon for half an hour. In the mean time have the whites of your eggs whipped to a thick snow, and then pour in the sugar and yolks. When thoroughly mixed, add an ounce of good aniseed, pre- viously washed and dried, and ten ounces of flour; stir the whole gently, and then with a spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about the size of a crown piece; sprinkle them with fine sugar, and bake. Remove them from the paper, while hot, with a knife. Anise Croquettes de Verdun*—Put four ounces of sifted flour, four ounces ot pow- der sugar, and the yolks of five eggs into a smnli pan, and work them well together for a quarter of an hour; then add four drachms of anise etoile, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Lay this prepara- tion (the same as directed for croquettes d la Parisienne) upon tins lightly buttered, then mask them with white anise, and let them bake in a moderate oven until they are coloured, then separate them from each other. „ Anisr petit* Dents de Loup de 1 erdun. Eut four ounces of sifted flour, four15 AN! 15 ANI ounces of sugar in powder, and the yolks of live eggs into a small pan, and work them well together for a quarter of an hour; then add to them four drachms of piiise etoile, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Put this preparation into tin moulds, in form of a jalousie, lightly but- tered, so that the dents de loup as they spread take the form of little navettes, the length and thickness of your little linger ; then mask them all over with an ounce of white anise de Verdun. Put them to bake m a moderate oven, until they are of a nice light colour ; then separate them, take them out of the moulds, and place them on a baking-tin to dry in the oven, to make them crisp. Anise etoile a la Fromage Bavarois.*— Take two drachms of green anise, two drachms of anise ttoilt, and half a drachm of fennel seeds, and half a drachm of cori- ander seeds; bruise the whole of them, put them into two glasses of scalding milk, in which you have previously dissolved eight ounces of powder sugar. Let it in- fuse for one hour, then pass it through a fine sieve or cloth. Then mix with it°six drachms of isinglass ; place it in your ice mould; as soon as it begins to congeal add to it your fromage a la creme, and finish the same as green walnuts a la fromage bavarois. ° Aniseed Genoise.*■—This is made like the Almond Genoise, with the addition of a spoonful of green aniseed ttoild, washed perfectly clean, put, instead of the almond paste, into the preparation ; and these are glazed with four ounces of sugar, with red anise strewed over to finish them. Anise (white) Madelaines.*—Grate the zestfs ot two cedrats, oranges, or lemons, upon a piece of sugar; then crush and mix It wnh powder sugar; weigh nine ounces ui it and put into a saucepan, with half a pound of sifted flour, four yolks and six , 0l® °SSs. two spoonsful of Andave wiT/dy, and,a little salt; stir this mixture th a spatula, and continue stirring ex- actly one minute after the whole is well incorporated hut no longer. Then clarify ten ounces of butter, taking care to skim it w henever the curd rises to the top • When quite clear pour it into another saucepan ; as soon as it is a little cooled fomitinto u madelaine mould, then turn it out of this into a second mould, and so on until eight moulds are buttered • then heat the butter again, and fill eight more moulds, and proceed in this manner until thirty-two moulds are thus prepared; which must be kept upright that the butter may he preserved in each. Put the re- mainder ot the butter to the paste, which place over a gentle stove, stirring it con- stantly to prevent its sticking to the sauce- pan, and ns soon as your preparation becomes liquid (this the melted butter will very soon effect) remo ve it from the fire, and put a spoonful of it into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven; in about five-and-twenty or thirty minutes try if they are firm, and if they are also a good colour take them out. Then boil a quarter of a pound of fine sugar to cassd, glaze the madelaines on one side by dipping it into the sugar, and as you take each cake out strew over it either red or white anise. Aniseed (Oil of)*—Is made like ani- seed water, the only difference is, that an additional pound of sugar is necessary to make the syrup. J Anise (Petits Pains of)*—Put two glasses of water and two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, and when the li- quid boils take it from the fire, and mix with it six ounces of sifted flour ; amalga- mate it thoroughly, so that it may °be quite free from lumps; then dry it over the fire. Take it out of the saucepan, and add to it two eggs, and two ounces of powder sugar; mix them well in, and then put in two more eggs and the zeste of a lemon minced fine: when these are also We 1 incorporated, add another egg or two if the paste (which should be rather firm) will bear them. Sprinkle your paste slab with flour, cut the paste into pieces, each the size of a walnut; roll these with as little flour as possible, to about three inches long, and as you roll them place them on a baking-tin two inches apart - dorez and bake them in a tolerably warm oven till they are firm. Then cut some anise into fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar tocasse, and the moment it reaches that degree set it by the side of the fire that the sugar may not lose its whiteness - dip the top and one side of each petit pain in the sugar as quick as possible, and as you take them out, strew the anise over hem lightly. Red anise is also used for these petits pains. Aniseed Ratnf a *-To make a quart of this liquor, boil a pound of sugar with a demisetier of water, until the simnr is quite clear ; then heat another demisetier o water, and put in it three ounces of unise; take it from the fire before it boils; Jet it stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it with three pints of brandy into theAPP APP 16 sugar; mix all well together, and then pour it into a vessel, which must be closed tight, and placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle it. Anise Rolls.*—Pound four ounces of sweet almonds in the usual manner, and make a paste according to the directions for almond rolls, with a quarter of a pound of flour; the same of powder sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of the in- fusion of green anise, and a grain of salt. Cut the paste, roll and finish as in the above-mentioned recipe; but before they are baked dorez and cover them with white Verdun anise. The ingredients for these rolls are a quarter of a pound of almonds, the same of flour, ditto powder sugar, two yolks of eggs, four ounces of white anise, and a drachm of infusion of green anise. Aniseed Water.*—Choose eight ounces of new green anise, sift it well to free it from the dust, and then infuse in six pints of brandy, with the zestes of three le- mons, and half an ounce of cinnamon ; in a week’s time distil it over a moderate fire, put a pint of water into the alembic; take care to collect the phlegm before you draw off the aniseed water. Dissolve three pounds of sugar in three pints of water. As the anise contains an acid salt, which renders this liquid milky, the following proceeding is necessary : Re- serve a pint of the water from that in which you dissolved the sugar, and mix with the white of three or four eggs, well whipped, and while the syrup is hot put to it this egg-water and the aniseed wa- ter ; stir it over the fire until the whole is hot without boiling; then put it into a glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the next day bottle and filter it. Anisette de Bordeaux* — Take two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and the same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put them, with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alembic bain-marie. Then dissolve thirteen pounds of sugar in two quarts of river water, which must be put to your liqueur when distilled. 1 ilter and bot- tle it. APPLES.*—Cooks, in choosing apples for culinary purposes, should always be guided by the weight, the heaviest being always the best; and those are particu- larly to be taken, which upon being press- ed by the thumb, yield with a slight crackling noise. Large apples possessing these qualities should be taken in prefer- ence to small ones, as there is less waste in peeling and coring. The following is a good selection of large kitchen apples, ar- ranged in the order of their maturity:— Manx Codlin, called also Irish Pitcher, and Irish Codlin. Hawthornden. Hollandbury Pippin, called also Kirke’s Scarlet Admirable. Wormsley Pippin. Blenheim Orange, called also Wood- stock Pippin. Dutch Codlin. Beauty of Kent. Dumelow’s Seedling, called also Wel- lington. Yorkshire Greening. Royal Russet. For very early use the Carlisle codlin is the best, but it is not large : for very late use the London pippin, the French crab, and the Norfolk beaufin, are valu- able ; the last is well known, as furnish- ing the dried apples, which are called beefins. Apples, Black-caps. — Divide twelve large apples in halves, core them, and place them on a thin pattypan or mazarine, quite close to each other, with the flat side downwards; squeeze a lemon into two spoonsful of orange flower water, which pour over them, with a little red or white wine, shred fine some lemon peel, tlirow it over them, and grate fine sugar all over. Set them in a quick oven, and bake them half an hour. When served, strew fine sugar all over the dish. Apples (Black-cap of).—Pare them, lay them in your pan, strew a few cloves over them, a little lemon peel cut very small, two or three blades of cinnamon, and some coarse sugar; cover the pan with brown paper, set it in an oven with the bread, and let it stand till the oven is cold. Apples, to bake uhole.—Put some sound and well chosen apples into a pan, with a small proportion of cloves, a little lemon peel, some brown sugar, a glass or more of red wine, according to the quantity of fruit; put them into a quick oven, and bake them at least one hour. The sugar to be limited according to the quality of the apples. Apples au beurre, with Apple Jellp. Take out the cores and turn fifteen small red apples, and boil them twice in six ounces of clarified sugar. Then peel twelve renneting apples, and cut them into quarters. Having reduced the syrupAPP 17 to a souffle, put in your renneting apples, with two ounces of lukewarm butter, and one fourth of a pot of apricot marmalade. Mix tlie whole well together, and boil them the same as in the receipt for ap- ples an beurre a la minute. Whilst they are boiling, take your small red apples and cut each of them in half; then put them into a mould ("in the form of a dome) lightly buttered, afterwards filling up the mould with the apples which -were boiled in the butter; you then turn your mould on a dish, afterwards carefully removing it. Then stick in the half of each of your small red apples, a fine cherry, or a pre- served verjuice seed, and mask your entre- met with jelly made with Rouen apples. Then serve. Apples an beurre, with Cream.*—Peel, take out the cores, and cut into quarters, twenty renneting apples; hoil ten of them with sugar, &c., the same as in the receipt of Apples au beurre a la minute, adding two spoonsful of fine sugar, two spoonsful of apricot marmalade, and three of butter made lukewarm. Make the remaining ten apples into marmalade, adding two ounces of fine sugar, and two spoonsful of apricot marmalade; then put the apples which were boiled with the hutter in a mould (the form of a dome), arranging them in such a manner as to leave a space all up the centre of your mould; then mask them with your marmalade, which should be first strained through a sieve, then fill up the space which you have left in the mould with any sort of boiling cream pdtissiere you please. Place a dish on your mould, turn it quickly over, and take it off with great care; then lightly mask your apples with a little cream, the same as_ what you put into your mould. Strew over the whole some crushed macaroons. Apples au beurre, with Macaroons* -Ibis entremet is made exactly the same as Apples au beurre with Apple Jelly, only in- stead of masking with apple jelly, you must mask with apricot marmalade, and strew your eiltremH aU 07er wlth maca_ roons cut extremely small. Apples an beurre a la minute*—Peel foui-and-twenty renneting apples, and cut them into quarters, and toss them up in a stewpan with sue ounces of sugar inpow- der („yer which should bo grated the zest of an orange,) four ounces of luke- warm butter, and the fourth of a pot of marmakde Then place your stewpan upon the stove; put fire on the lid. When the apples aro done, pour them out upon a APP dish ; pick out the best quarters and put them into a buttered mould, six inches in diameter and four in height. Then pour in the rest of the apple with the rest of the ingredients. Place a dish on your mould turn it quickly over, and carefully remove it; then mask the surface of your apples with apricot or quince marmalade, or ap- ple or currant jelly, and serve. 1 This dish should be executed as quickly as possible, to prevent the apples from getting cold. When you serve this entremet, strew either some pistachio nuts chopped small or dry currants mixed with pounded su- gar, over it. Pears may be prepared in the same manner. Apple Cake.*—Pare and core a dozen apples, and make them into marmalade with the zest of a lemon and a little cinna- mon, and pass them through a sieve ; put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of potatoe flour, half a pound of sugar, and two ounces of butter; dry it over the fire and when cold add six eggs, stir them well w, and having buttered a mould pour your preparation into it, and bake it in a slow oven ; when done, turn it in a dish and serve it. Apples Charlotte of* (See Charlotte.) Apple Cheesecakes*-Pare, core, and boil twelve apples with sufficient water to mash them; beat them very smooth, add six yolks ot eggs, the juice of two lemons, and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and. sweetened with powder sugar, beat it in with the apples. Bake in a puff crust and serve open. hairPnLES’ £°mpote*~Cut some apples in half, core them, prick the skins with a tmfe, and throw them into cold water - then put them into a pan with some cla- rified sugar, and strew them gently till tender ; place the apples in a dislif and them 16 SyrUP tljl'°Ugh a sieve over Apples (Compote of)*-Pare very even and core your apples (which should be of such sort as stand the fire best, such as golden pippins), and put them into water ran” wT3 i'nd l)eelinS‘s l)ut into a stew- 1 ail, with a large glass of white wine, half a pound of lump sugar, the peel and juice clovl? T8’ • httie S^S-er, cinnamon, foXlV a Plnt ?' ",uer; stew them tor half an hour gently, and strain it into a small preserving-pan ; then put your ap Pies even into it; simmer them very gently and turn them over with a fork, that bothAPP 18 'APE sides may be done alike; as soon as they are tender take them up with a slice on to a sieve, reduce the syrup to a good con- sistence, place your apples on the dish, pour over the syrup, and garnish as fancy directs with cherries, preserved orange, greengages, &.c. The apples should be kept as whole as possible. Apples (Compote of).*—Pare and cut half a dozen fine apples in half, and put them into a pan with a little water and lemon juice ; then clarify half a pound of 6ugar, and when you have skimmed it put in your apples, and the juice of a lemon ; turn the apples frequently. As soon as you find the fork will penetrate them, they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out; strain and reduce the syrup; strain it again, and then pour it over your apples, which may be served either hot or cold. Garnish with the peel of a very red apple, cut into various devices, and laid on the apples. Apples, Whole* — The proceeding is the same as the last, except that the apples, when pared, are not divided, and the cores are taken out with a piercer. Apples, Stuffed with Apricots.*—Choose ten fine sound apples, and with an apple- ecoop pierce out the cores and great part of the pulp, taking care that the apples preserve their firmness ; then pare and throw them into cold water, after which boil them as above directed; when soft, take out the apples carefully, arrange them in the compotier, and fill each with apricot marmalade, covering the holes with round pieces of lemon peel cut extremely thin ; in the mean while, clarify and boil the syrup to petit lisse, and when it has cooled a little pour it over the apples. Apples ( Croquettes of).*—Prepare your apples as for Apple Cake, divide it into email pieces, roll them into balls, and dip them into an omelet; cover them with bread crumbs, and fry them; as soon as they are of a good colour take them out, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them imme- diately. Apples era Croustade.*—Form some crott- stude (raised crust) in abasket seven inches in diameter and three in height; line the basket, with buttered paper, and fill it with flour or beef suet chopped ; then or- nament it, gild it, and let it bake to a nice light colour; when it is baked take out the flour or suet and the paper, and half fill the basket with apple marmalade (thirty apples made into marmalade, tho same as iu the receipt for Apples Merin- guees inform of a Hedgehog). Then peel, take out the cores, and turn eight apples; boil them quite white, and then fill up the place of the core with apricot marma- lade, and put them in the marmalade on your basket, placing one in the centre of the basket, and the other seven round it; filling up the spaces between with more apple marmalade, arranging it in such a way that your apples are half incrusted in the marmalade; place upon the top of each apple a fine cherry, then mask your entremet with apple jelly, which gives it a beautiful transparent appearance. Serve this entremet either hot or cold, and gar- nish with apricot marmalade. Apple Costard, with butter and cedrat* —Pare and cut a dozen fine apples into quarters; put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of sugar, upon which 3-ou have grated the zest of a cedrat. Half boil the apples, and then let them cool. In the mean time, roll out some puff paste and cut it round (about eleven inches in diameter), turn up the edges two inches and put it on a baking-tin; pinch up and decorate this lightly, and place in it the apples, ar- ranging those quarters which are most done in the form of a crown; then pour in the butter and sugar, in which your apples were done; take the remaining quarters and place them carefully on the crown, so as to make a second on that. Fix a strong paper, well buttered, round your custard, and put in a hot oven for three quarters of an hour; then remove the paper, dorez the crust lightly, and let it remain in the oven a few minutes longer. Sift the sugar over the crust, and glaze it. When it should be sent to table, mask it with apple, currant, or apricot marmalade. Serve it hot. Apple Custard d la Portugaise.*—Take thirty fine apples, and pierce out the cores of ten of them which are of an equal size ; pare and trim them neatly, and boil them in six ounces ot sugar till pretty firm. Peel and cut the remaining apples very small, and put them into the above syrup; shred the rind of an orange, and mix with them; stir the whole constantly to pre- vent their sticking to the pan; when suffi- ciently done rub the marmalade through a horsehair sieve. Prepare the crust as before mentioned; but dress the sides a little higher; mix two spoonsful of apri- cot marmalade with that of your apples, and then put four spoonsful of it into the custard ; place the whole apples (havingAPP APP put apricot marmalade in the place of the cores), and then add the remainder of the apple marmalade, talcing care not to cover the apples with it. Finish as above. At the instant of serving itmask it with apple jelly, apricot or quince marmalade, cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top of each apple with a cherry or verjuiee-berry. Serve this hot or cold. Apple Dumplings.*■—Choose six or eight good-sized baking apples, pare and core them, roll out some good paste, divide it into as many pieces as you have apples; roll and cut two rounds from each, put an apple on one piece and put the other over; join the edges neatly, tie them in cloths, and boil them. Apple Dumplings (baked).—Make them in the same way, but instead of tying them in cloths, lay them in a buttered dish and hake them. You may also add sugar, gTated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and ginger. Apples (dried or baked, or tapees). Choose the clearest of baking apples, prick them rather deep with a pointed knife in several places, and put them in a moderate oven upon a baking-plate ; when half done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, strew them on both sides with powder sugar, and put them again into a soaking oven, with some more sugar over thenn Keep them in a dry place. Apples Festooned, or en Farbalat.—Peel some golden pippins, core them whole, and stew them to three parts with sugar and a little water; make the syrup prettv rich to clog to the apples; wrap them round with a thin paste, cut with a paste- cutter, and make knots or flowers with the same paste to put on the top of the apples ; rasp some sugar over, and bake a very short time. ^ Apples (a Floating Island of).—Bake or scald eight or nine large apples: when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, ^1S UP WIth fine sugar; put to it the whites of four or five eggs Lt have witl, . Uttle role"5.,“* it a lmle at a tnne) anJ beat it tm’ u jg jelly.’ U °n a rich custw'd or on beivT f°oL~^ew aPPles as for goose- berry fool and then pulp them, prepare the milk, &c. and mix as before. 1 1 Apples a la Frangipane.—Peel and core a dozen apples, slice them into a deen dish, over which shake some powder sugar, tlunly spread it over with apricot ‘overtW Vei7thm slices °f fresh butter r that, mix an ounce of potatoc flour with a pint of cream, a small bit of butter, nnd sugar to sweeten it; stir it over the fire till it begins to boil, then lay it over the apples, and bake in a moderate oven. Apple Froze.—Cut apples into thick slices, and fry them of a clear light brown ; take them from the pan, and lay them to dram ; they may be pared or not; then make a batter. Take five eggs, leaving ■out two whites, beat them up with cream or flour, and a little white wine, make it of the consistence of pancake batter; pour in a little melted butter, mixed with nut- meg and sugar. Let the batter be hot and drop in the fritters, laying on every one a slice of apple, and then a spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of a pale brown, when taken up, strew double-re- fined sugar all over them. Apple Fritters.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, well together, strain them into a pan; then take a quart of cream, make it moderately hot, and •add two glasses of sack, three quarters of a pint of ale, and mix them well toge- ther. When it is cool, put to it the e<°rS beating it well together, then add nut- meg and ginger grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The batter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced apples, or scraped pippins, and fry them quick in butter. Apple Fritters.*—Pare, core, and' cut y°ur apples into thick slices, soak them tor two or three hours in brandy, su°-ar green lemon peel, and orange-flower wa- ter; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour of these ingredients, drain, and put them into a cloth well sprinkled with flour, and shake them so that the flour may adhere all over them ; fry them of a good colour, glaze with sugar and a hot sala- niander. Apple Fritters.* — Having prepared your apples as above, dip them into a bat- ter made with four eggs, a little milk, and the remains of what the apples were soaked m ; keep it very thick, so that it may ad- here to them ; fry in plenty of good hot bird, to a good colour, and glaze with sugar and a hot salamander. Apple Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Turn twelve small apples, cut them into halves, and boil them in syrup, then leave them to cool. When they are cold, make an lx remely thin crust with brioche paste. Make a fritter for each half apple, then vy them and finish the same as Fritters <i la Dauphine. Pears cut into quarters, are made in the same manner as the above. c 2APP 20 APP Apples and Almonds Pelils Gateaux.* •—Proceed the same as above till the mar- malade is spread over the under crust, then cover it with almonds cut in fillets, press them in lightly; mask them with powder sugar and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as cold, cut your gdteaux accord- ing to your fancy, either round, oblong, lozenge, or crescent-shaped. Apples. Petits Gateaux bandies* — Having spread your marmalade on the paste in the usual manner, take some narrow slips of paste, roll them, and lay them about three eighths of an inch apart diagonally over the marmalade ; mark out the forms of your gateaux, bake in a mode- rate oven, and cut them as usual. Apple Marmalade. Petits Gateaux.*—■ Make a marmalade of twenty-four apples in the usual way, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pot of apricots, and the zest of a lemon, shred fine. Make your paste, and proceed as directed for Petits Gateaux glacis of Apri- cots. Sprinkle them (when marked) with powder sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven and finish them. Apple Petits Gateaux with Pistachios.*— Make an under crust of the same size and thickness as directed for Petits Gateaux glacis of Apricots, and cover it with apple marmalade ; when baked mash the apples with a little apricot marmalade, and strew over a quarter of a pound ol pistachio nuts cut in small pieces, and then put it in the oven again for a few minutes to dry the apricots. When cold, cut them into the usual forms. Apples and Pistachios (Gateau Pari- sienne of).*—Prepare and toss up a dozen apples for this gateau with apples and raisins, with the addition of two ounces of sugar, and instead of the zest of an orange, grate that of a lemon, and put three ounces of pistachio nuts blanched, in the place of the raisins. Proceed in the same manner as directed in that re- cipe, strewing on the dome of the gateau pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six pieces ; and when the crown is put round the band place a pistachio nut in the middle of each meringue, bake it of a light colour in a slow oven, aud serve it hot. Apples and Raisins (Gateau Parisienne of).*—Pare and cut a dozen apples into quarters, and each quarter into four pieces, put them into a pan with four ounces of good fresh butter, two of sugar, over which the zest of an orange has been grated, and a quarter of a pound of currants well washed ; toss up these ingredients over a moderate fire for a few minutes and then let them cool. Make a round under crust seven inches in diameter, moisten the edge and put on it a band of puff paste three quarters of an inch high and half an inch thick ; put your apples, &c., in tliis, so as to form a sort of dome, cover them with the puff paste, taking care that it does not extend beyond the band, upon which it must be pressed down ; brush it over with white of egg, and bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour. When a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, whipped to a strong froth and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar, and mask with it your gdteau, sprinkling it with sifted sugar; then, having drained and dried some cur- rants, mix them with sugar, and strew them over the dome ; form a crown of small meringues with the remainder of the white of egg, and place it on the band; cover them with sifted sugar, and colour the whole of a clear yellow in the oven, and then serve immediately. Apples, Glades.—Peel a dozen of ap- ples and leave the tails; gore at the op- posite side not quite through, and boil them with half a pint of red wine, some sugar, and a spoonful of brandy, simmer slowly that they may not break ; when nearly done, take them out, reduce the syrup to a caramel, and put in the apples, rubbing them all over with it; or you. may rap them in a paste, rasp sugar over, bake a short time, and glaze with a white glaze. Apple Jelly*—Peel any kind of sharp apples, cut them in slices, and wash them in several waters; then boil them in a covered pot with a good deal of water, until it is much reduced and becomes glu- tinous ; strain it through a thin cloth, measure it, and refine an equal quantity of clarified sugar to the twelfth degree (au cassi) and pour the apples into it, boil it up and skim it, boil again until it quits the spoon clear by dropping out of it. Apple (clear) Paste is done in the same way. . . Apple Marmalade.—Boil some pippins till they begin to get tender, then put them into cold water ; pare and core them; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and put it over the fire, letting it remain till it be- comes very thick; then weigh an equal quantity of fine sugar; boil it till the sugar arises iu sparkles which cluster21 APP APP together; put the marmalade to it, and stir them well with a wooden spoon till the apple begins to boil; then take it off, and when a little cool put it into pots, but do not cover them till quite cold. Apple Marmalade.*—Pare, core, and cut jour apples into small pieces, put them into water with a little lemon juice to keep them white. Take them out after a short time and drain them. Weigh, and put them into a stewpan ; if for present use, half a pound of Sugar will be sufficient for each pound of apples, but if for keeping, double that quantity will be necessary. Add to it a stick of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon. Put the stewpan over a brisk lire and cover it; when the apples are pulped stir the mixture till of the proper consistence, then put the marmalade into pots. Apples Meringuees.—Put some apple marmalade on a dish, in a pyramid ; whip the whites of two eggs to a froth, mix with them two spoonsful of powder sugar and a little lemon peel chopped extremely small; decorate your apples with this pre- paration, glaze them with sugar, and colour them in the oven. Apple Meringue.-—-Lay a timbale paste in a tart-pan, egg and prick it all over, and bake it; lay in it a purde of apples, and finish with white of egg-, as for a la Turque: serve it hot. Apples Meringuees in form of a Hedge- hog*—Choose forty sound renneting apples; take out their cores, and turn fifteen of them, putting them as you turn them into cold water (prepared the same as for the Apples Sutdnise formant le Pont a Colonnes) ; when you have turned eight of the apples boil them in six ounces of clarified sugar; when they are sufficiently done (which is when they are a little firm), take them out of the syrup and boil the other seven, which you must turn whilst the other eight are boiling ; when these are done, add to the remaining syrup the zest of a lemon, and put into it the remain- ing five-and-twenty apples nicely peeled and cut into thin slices; cover them closely, and let them boil over a moderate fire until tlioy are quite tender; then beat them with a spatula till they are reduced to a complete marmalade. Then pass it through a sieve and add to it half a pot of apricot marmalade. When it is cold spread two spoonsful of it on a dish, then take nine of the largest of the turned apples (filling up the place of the core with apri- cot marmalade), and place them on the marmalade in the dish, putting apple mar" malade between each of them. Then fill up with apricot marmalade the place of the cores in the other six apples, and put five of them over the nine in the dish, filling up the spaces with more apple marmalade, and place your remaining apple at the top. With the rest of the apple marmalade, mask your apples in such a manner that the entremet forms a complete dome; then mix up pretty firm the whites of two eggs with two spoonsful of powder sugar, when it is well mixed, mask the apples all over with it as equally as possible, then strew it over with powder sugar, and stick it all over with pieces of sweet almonds (every almond must be cut into five equal strips), at about the distance of three eighths from each other (the best way of sticking in these strips of almonds is by piercing the meringue of apples with the point of a silver skewer). Your entremet being finished, strew over it some powder sugar. Let it bake in a moderate oven; ten minutes will be sufficient to do it of a nice light colour. Serve it hot. This entremet is very delicious, and is ex- tremely pretty in appearance, but takes a long time to prepare, and requires the greatest attention. This dish is generally garnished with pistachio nuts. Apples Miroton.—Pare neatly, and scoop out the cores of a dozen and a half of apples; cut them in very thin slices, have a pan the size of your dish ready ; butter and spread some apricot jam over the bottom ; place your apples over one another in a miroton round the pan, and fill up the centre with the odd bits; spread jam and sugar over it, then lay another circle of apples the reverse way to the first row, and so proceed till you have laid five or six rows ; spread it over with jam, and bake it in a moderate oven ; when done, carefully turn it on a dish, and serve it hot. It would be much better if you are able at once to bake it in a silver dish. Apples Pralinees a. la Vanille. (Mosaic Tartlets of.)*—Make a marmalade with a dozen apples, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a clove of vanilla, minced very small; when done and cold, mix with it two spoonsful of apricot marmalade. Fill your tartlets with this, cover them with the mosaic as dirocted (see Mosaic Tartlets), and mask them with a quarter of a pound of almonds chopped small, and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar and a very little white of egg; press theseAPP 22 APP lightly all over the surface of your tartlets, strew powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven till of a clear reddish tinge. Apples a la None.—Prepare a dozen and a half of apples as for a la Turque; let them be cold; roll out a thin tart paste, cut it in lengths of a foot and a half with a jigging-iron, and twine it round the apples ; fill them with preserved cher- ries and powder sugar, close and egg them over, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve them hot. Apple Paste.*—Pare and core whatever number of apples you may require, and having boiled them with a little cinnamon and lemon peel to a pulp, pass them through a sieve; dry the marmalade. Weigh it and boil an equal weightof sugar to petit boule ,■ then mix the fruit with it, and. boil the whole to a proper consistence ; when done put it into moulds, which place in a stove to dry the paste. ArPLE Pie with Musradel Plums*—Peel twenty renneting apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into five or six pieces; toss them in a pan with four ounces of sugar in powder (over which should be grated the peel of a lemon), four ounces of butter lukewarm, and four ounces of fine Muscadel plums. Line the edge of a deep dish with a good pufif paste, then put in your fruit, and cover your dish with a good puff paste a quarter of an inch in thickness, glaze with the white of an egg, and strew sugar over it. Let it bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve it hot. Apple (Poupeton of).—Pare some good . baking-apples, take out the cores, and put them into a skillet; to a pound and a half of apples, put a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a wine-glass of wrater. Do them over a slow fire, add a little cinnamon, and keep them stirring. When of the consistence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool; beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir in four table-spoonsful of grated bread, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; then form it into shape, bake it in a slow oven, turn it upside down on a plate, and serve it as an entreniet. Apple Pudding (Baked).—Pare and quarter four large apples; boil them ten- der, with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mortar; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste ; heat altogether and lay in a dish with paste to turn out. Apple Pudding a la Campagne*— Make a batter with two eggs, a pint of milk, and three or four spoonsful of flour; pour it into a deep dish, and having pared six or eight small apples, place them whole in the batter and bake it. Apple Pudding with Cherries.1’—Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them in quar- ters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces, put them in a stewpan with four ounces of fine sugar, four ounces of butter lukewarm, and a pot of fine pre- served cherries. When they are wanned through, pour them out upon a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould with it, put in your apples, and finish the same as in the receipt of Apple Pudding a la Franfaise. Apple Pudding it la Creme*—Peel and cut into quarters fifteen renneting apples ; stew them with three ounces of fine sugar in powder, and two ounces of lukewarm butter, when they are just warmed through, pour them into a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould with it, and put in your apples, arranging them in such a wav that you leave a space in the middle of your mould, which must be filled up with cream pdtissiere (cold), what sort you please; then finish your pudding ac- cording to the receipt of Apple Pudding a la Franfaise. When ready to serve, mask it with apricot marmalade, and strew crushed macaroons all over. Apple Pudding a la Franfaise.—To make this pudding, it is necessary to have a dome-shaped mould, four inches deep, and six in diameter, and a cover to fit the top completely, both full of holes like a cul- lender. This mould should be buttered, and completely lined with a moderate layer of paste, into which put the following pre- paration : Peel and core about three dozen rennets, cut them into quarters, toss them in a stewpan over the fire, with four ounces of oiled butter, four ounces of fine sugar, and the rind of an orange grated: and when quite cold, fill into the mould, cover it well in, put on the lid, tie it in a cloth, and boil it for two hours; strew fine sugar over it when dished up, and serve quite hot Atple Fritters raised.—Cut a dozen good baking-apples as for fritters, peel them and take out the core with a cutter; let them soak for two hours in brandy, sugar, lemon peel, grated nutmeg, and orange-flower water: drain and dip them in 3 batterAPP APP 25 made quite thick, mixed with four eggs, three spoonsful of flour, a little milk, and the remains of what the apples were soaked in ; fry them in hot lard, and glaze with sugar and a hot salamander. Dish them on pedestals made of puff paste, cut in shapes and baked. Apples (Bed Jelly of').—See the recipe for making Apple Jelly. Follow the same directions, and afterwards add a sufficient quantity of the essence of cochiuoal to colour it. Apples dried for Dessert. — Choose some sound stone-pippin apples, not too ripe ; put them into a very slack oven, on baking sheets, leave them in all night, take them out in the morning, and pinch them one by one between your thumb and finger, working it all round ; put them in again the next night, and out again and pinch them in the morning, and so on till soft enough ; then place them between two boards with a weight upon them, sufficient to press them flat but not to burst them, which -will be materially as- sisted by drying them very slow. Apple Pudding with Muscudel Plums*— Peel and take out the pips of some ren- neting apples, cut them in quarters, and cut each quarter into five pieces. Put them in a stewpan, with four ounces of fine sugar (over which should be grated the rind of a lemon), four ounces of butter, lukewarm, and half a pound of Muscadel plums, well washed and stoned. Then place your stewpan on the fire, with fire above. When the apples are warmed through, pour them on a dish, prepare your crust, line your mould with it, put in your apples, and finish according to the receipt of Apple Pudding a la Fran- faise. Apple Pudding with Pistachio Nuts.* Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces. Then put them into a stewpan with six ounces of fine sugar (over which should be grated the rind of a lemon), four ounces of butter, lukewarm, our ounces of green pistachio nuts (whole), and rather more than half a pot of apricot marmalade; let them stew till they are warmed through, then pour them into a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould, put in your apples, and finish the same as in the receipt of Apple Pudding “ la Franqaise. When it is ready to serve, mask it with apricot marmalade and strew pistachio nuts, chopped small’ over it. ’ Apples (Puree of).—Peel and core a dozen or more good baking-apples; set them over the fire to stew with some cla- rified sugar and a small bit of lemon peel, when soft stir them well with a wooden spoon, and put in a spoonful of apricot jam ; stir it at times till the jam is mixed and the apples thicken, then rub the whole through a tammy. Apples in Rice.*—Scoop out the cores, and pare, very neatly, half a dozen good- sized apples ; boil them in thin clarified sugar ; let them imbibe the sugar, and be careful to preserve their form. Make a marmalade with some other apples, addino- to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of rice previously boiled in milk, with su- gar and butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; put them into a dish for table, suiTound it with a border of rice, and place the whole apples in the rice and marmalade, and bake it. When done, put into each of the apples a tea-spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper. Apple Sauce.—Pare, core, and slice some apples; put a little water into the saucepan to prevent them burning ; add a bit of lemon peel; when sufficiently done, take out the latter. Bruise the apple, put in a bit of butter, and sweeten it. Apples aux Meringues.—Scoop the core out of half a dozen good apples, and fill them with quince marmalade; stew them tender in half a pint of water with some sugar, lemon peel, and a little more marmalade; put the apples with the liquor in the dish ; beat the whites of six eggs to a strong froth with orange-flower water, and sugar to the taste ; cover the apples with it, and hake them half an hour. Apples in a Border of Rice.—Well wmsh and cleanse a pound of Carolina rice, and simmer very gently over a slow fire, in about a quart of milk and a pint of cream, to which put a small stick of cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon ; when it is very much swelled and has soaked up all the milk, keep it well stirred lest it should burn, and add a little more milk if it re- quires it; let it remain on the fire till it has attained a very thick consistence, hav- ing previously taken out the cinnnmon and peel, and added sugar, sufficient to sweeten it, and grated nutmeg. While hot, add four yolks of eg-gs and a little brandy, mix it well, and set by to get a little cool; then raise a border of this rice round your dish, about two inches high, as tastefully ns possible, into whichAPP APP 24 put a marmalade of apples. When half- baked, put a meringue on the top, made with the whites of four eggs, whisked to a strong froth, to which you have added four spoonsful of fine powdered sugar lightly mixed; put it immediately into a mode- rately hot oven, and if it colours too fast put some paper over it. When done, send instantly to table. Apples Sauffld Parisien*—Make a mar- malade of three dozen apples, half a pound of powder sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a glass of water; dry it as much as you possibly can, for on that the good appear- ance of the souffie Parisien chiefly depends; then put it into a large stewpan. Whip the whites of ten eggs to a strong froth, with powder sugar. Mix a quarter of this at first, with the apple marmalade, then stir the whole together, and pour it into a croustade prepared as usual. (See Souf- fle.) Bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. Serve it as soon as possible after taking it from the oven. Glaze it with powder sugar. Apples Suddoise formant le Pont a. Colonnes.*-—Peel, and take out the core of forty renneting apples. Take ten of them and cut them into thin slices, and then into long squares; as you cut them throw them into four glasses of water, in which you have previously put two ounces of sugar and the juice of a lemon. By this means the whiteness of the apples will he preserved, for without the sugar and lemon they would turn red in the water; then take them out of the water drain them, and boil in six ounces of clari- fied sugar; do not let them boil too long, for if they lose their firmness you cannot preserve their shape. Whilst they are boiling, cut eight more of the apples into little columns with a tin cutter, one inch and a half in diameter, put them into the sugar and water, and boil them the same as the preceding, and then put them to drain on a large sieve, on which you should have previously placed the apples which were first boiled. Then cut the remainder of the apples, and boil them in the rest of the syrup with the zest of a lemon. Cover them closely to keep in the vapour whilst they are boiling ; after which you must keep constantly stirring until they are reduced to a marmalade, add to it half a pot of apricot marmalade, and con- tinue boiling the whole until it flows readily, pass it through a hair sieve, and put the marmalade into a pan, which must be covered with paper slightly buttered. Then form some crumb of bread into a semicircle three inches in diameter, and four in length. Envelop this bread in buttered paper, and place it in the middle of a dish and mask it in your apple mar- malade (the marmalade should be cold), placing it in such a manner as to form a little bridge ; then take away the crumb which has acted as a mould for tbe arch, round the arch place some seeds of ver- juice or preserved cherries: mask the rest of the bridge with the slices of apple; all this must be done with great care, so that the bridge may have a pretty appear- ance ; put at the four corners of the bridge, four columns of the apple prepared for this purpose, cut some of the slices of the apple into squares, and place them on tbe top of the columns so as to form a flat roof; upon this, place a brandy cherry; into this cherry you must stick a piece of angelica to form a point for a finish to your co- lumns. When you have finished your bridge, fill up the dish (underneath the bridge) with apple jelly. This entremet is usually garnished with angelica, pistachio, verjuice, cherries, apricot marmalade, gooseberries, quinces, &c. To form this entremet properly, you must carefully work from your model. Apples stewed in Jelly.—Cut your ap- ples in half, peel and core them, and as you do them, throw them into cold water; then cut two of them into small pieces, put the whole into clarified sugar with a glass of water and some lemon juice, and stew them; when sufficiently done, lay them in a dish ; make a jelly of the syrup, and pass it through a bolting-cloth upon a silver plate, and let it cool and set; and when set, slide it carefully over the fruit. Apple Syrup*—Take six apples, pare and cut them into small pieces; put them into a matrass with three quarters of a pound of sugar and two glasses ot water ; stop it close and place it in a bain-marie, mid leave it about two hours, letting the water be boiling; move the matrass fre- quently without taking it out of the wa- ter; this must be done carefully, lest it should break on being exposed to the cold air ; when done, put out the fire, and let the matrass cool before you take it out. When the syrup is nearly cold, flavour it with lemon juice, and add a spoonful of spirits of lemon and cinnamon, orange- flower water, or whatever else you may choose. If anv dregs should arise, let it stand for some hours longer, and then gently pour the syrup into bottles. GreatAPP APP 25 care must be taken to prevent its being muddy. Apple Tart.—Pare, core, and cut the best sort of baking apples in small pieces, and lay them in a disk previously lined with a puff crust; strew over them pound- ed sugar, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, and lemon peel chopped small, then a layer of apples, then spice, and so on till the dish is full, pour over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. Cover it with puff-crust, and bake it. Apple Tartlets.*—Turn a dozen small, sound rennets, core and cut them across ; put them into a preserving-pan with a glass of water, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the juice of a lemon; when sufficiently done, put the apples on a sieve to drain. Prepare your tartlets accord- ing to the directions for Apricot Tartlets; put in each, a little apricot marmalade, and on that the half of an apple previously filled with apricot marmalade, and bake them in a hot oven. In the mean time reduce the syrup to a thin jelly, and pour it on the apple tartlets wdien baked, and finish them by placing a cherry, or, if they are not in season, a preserved ver- juice-berry on the top. _ Apples a la Turque.—Neatly pare and pierce out the cores of eight or ten apples, put them on the fire with a thin syrup of clarified sugar, cover them close and let them simmer gently; turn them, that both sides may be done. When thoroughly done, lay them on a dish with a wet paper- over them. Put a paste round the dish 3r°u serve them in, then put in a layer of apple puree, over which put the apples, and fill the holes where the cores were with dried cherries or apricot jam, then cover it with the apple puree; beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, and add powder sugar till they appear quite smooth; make the apples warm, and lay the white of egg over them, smooth it neatly over, and sift some powder sugar over it; colour it in a gentle oven. ° Apple Wine.—Add to a barrel of cider the herb scurlea, the quintessence of wine, a little nitre, and a pound of syrup of ho- ney. Let it work m the cask till clear and well settled, then draw it off, and it will be little inferior to Rhenish, either in clearness, colour, or flavour. Apples, Codlings, to pickle.—Gather the codlings when of the size of a large double walnut; take a pan and make a thick layer of vine leaves at the bottom. Put in the codlings, cover them well with vine leaves and spring water, and put them over a slow fire till they are sufficiently tender to pare the skins with ease with a small sharp knife. Put them into the same water, with vine leaves as before; cover them close and set the pan at a short distance from the fire, until they are of a fine green ; then drain them in a cullender till they are cold. Put them into jars with some mace, and a clove or two of garlic, according to the quantity of the codlings, and cover them with distilled vinegar; pour over mutton fat, and tie them down with a bladder and leather very tight. Apples, green Codlings, to preserve.—. Gather the codlings when not bigger than French walnuts, with the stalks and a leaf or two on each. Put a handful of vine leaves into a preserving-pan, then a layer of codlings, then vine leaves, and then codlings and vine leaves alternately, until it is full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed on the top, and fill the pan with spring water; cover it close to keep in the steam, and set it on a slow fire till the apples become soft. Take them out, and pare off the rinds with a penknife, and then put them into the same water again with the vine leaves, but taking care that the water is become quite cold, or it will cause them to crack ; put in a little rock- allum and set them over a slow fire till they are green, then take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup and give them a gentle boil three successive days ; put them in small jars with brandy paper over them, and tie them down tight. Apples, golden Pippins, to preserve.— Take the rind of an orange and boil it very tender; lay it in cold water for three days; take two dozen golden pippins, pare, core, and quarter them, and boil them to a strong jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear; take the same quantity of pippins, pare and core them, and put three pounds of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with a pint and a half of spring water; let it boil; skim it well and put in your pippins, with the orange rind cut into long thin slips ; then let them boil fast till the sugar becomes thick and will almost candy ; put in a pint and half of pippin jelly, and boil fast till the jelly is clear; then squeeze in the juice of a fine lemon; give the whole another boil, andAPR APR 26 put the pippins in pots or glasses with the orange peel. Lemon peel may be used instead of orange, hut then it must only be boiled, and not soaked. Apples, Pippins, preserved in slices.— When the pippins are prepared, hut not cored, cut them into slices; take their equal weight of loaf sugar; put to the su- gar a sufficient quantity of water; let the sugar dissolve, skim it, and let it boil again very high ; then put the fruit into the syrup when it is. clear; lay them in shallow glasses, in which they are to he served ; then put into the syrup a candied orange-peel cut into little slices very thin, lay them about the pippins, and cover them with syrup. APRICOTS {Bottled)*— Press the quantity of ripe apricots you may require through a horsehair sieve; put the pulp into bottles, cork them very close, and tie them over; place these bottles upright in a large saucepan, with hay between to prevent their touching; put the saucepan on the fire, and fill it with water. When the water is near boiling, take it off and let it stand till the bottles are cold ; then put them in a cellar, without touching- each other, until wanted, when they will be found as good to use as fresh fruit. The apricots may also be preserved whole by the same means. Apricots in brandy .*—Choose your apri- cots when quite ripe, let them be free from spots, rub them carefully with a linen cloth, to take off the down. Weigh your fruit, and to each pound put a quarter of a pound of sugar. Clarify it, and boil it to the degree grand perle, then put in the apricots: boil them three or four times, taking care to turn them frequently, that they may take the sugar in all parts. Take them off' the fire, and put them one by one into glass bottles ; the syrup being by this time nearly cold, pour the brandy (three demisetiers to each pound) into it by de- grees, stirring constantly to mix it well with the syrup. When thoroughly incor- porated, pour it into the bottles, the fruit at first will float; but when the brandy and sugar have soaked in, they will sink to the bottom ; they are then fit to eat. Apricot Cakes.—Scald, peel, and take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots, beat them to a pulp, boil halt a pound of double-refined sugnr with a little water, and skim it well; then put in your fruit, and simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, stirring them gently all the time; put them into shallow glasses, and when cold turn them on glass plates; put them in a stove, and turn them once a day till diy. Apricots, Charlotte of*—Choose twen- ty-four fine, plump, but not too ripe, apri- cots, pare and divide them into eight parts, toss them up in a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of warm butter; in the mean time line a mould as directed (see Charlotte) ; pour in the apricots, and finish as usual. When turned on your dish, cover it lightly with apricot marmalade, and serve it immediately. Apricot Chips. — Take apricots or peaches, pare them, and cut them very thin into chips; then take three-fourths of their weight in sugar, finely sifted, and put the sugar and fruit into a dish, and place it upon a stove of moderate heat; when the sugar is dissolved, turn the chips upon the edge of the dish, out of the syrup, and so set them by. Keep turning them until they have absorbed all the syrup, but take care that they never boil. They must be warmed in the syrup once, daily, and so laid out on the edge of the dish until, by repetition, all the syrup be drank, up by them. Apricots (green) Compote of.*—Green apricots are done exactly the same as green almonds. See Almonds. Apricots, Compote of*—Peel, cnt, and take the stones from your fruit, and put them on the fire in a little water, and when they rise they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then put them into a little clarified sugar and give them three or four boilings; skim them well, and put your fruit aside ; boil the sugar alone four or five times more, and pour it over the apricots. When cold, place them in the compotier. Apricots, 11 'hole*—Choose the finest yellow, but not too ripe, apricots; take off the stalks, prick them on each side with a pin, make an incision with the point of a knife, through which extinct the stone. Then put them on the fire with as much water as will coverthem, until near boiling, when, if soft, the apricots shouldbe thrown into cold water; take care they are all equally tender. Drain them on a hurdle, and in the mean time clarify and boil some sugar to the degree you require : put in a little water, and when it boils remove it from the fire, and add to it the fruit, and having given them a few boilings togetherAPR APR 27 let them cool, then drain and place them in jour compotiers. Apricots (Conserve of) .*—Take half-ripe apricots, peel and cut them into thin slices, drjthem over a gentle fire; to four ounces of fruit put one pound of sugar, boiled to the degree la plume forte; when the sugar is nearly cold put in the fruit, taking care to stir it well with a spoon, that they may be well incorporated. Apricot Cream, a laFran^aise.*—Cut into pieces fifteen ripe apricots, choose them of a nice red colour. Boil them in four ounces of clarified sugar. When reduced to a thin marmalade, beat them through a sieve; then boil four glasses of milk with six ounces of sugar and one grain of salt, and mix it by degrees with the yolks of eight eggs, constantly stirring it with a wooden 6poon, then cream it over a moderate fire ■ after which it must be strained through a sieve. Add six drachms of isinglass; as soon as it is cool, pour it gently on the apricot marmalade, stirring it gradually, until the whole is well mixed together, then pour it in a mould (which should be previously rubbed with oil of sweet al- monds) , then surround the mould with ice ; cover your cream with a piece of paper or the lid of a saucepan. After your cream has been in the mould for two hours, gently turn it out upon a dish, and serve. The advantage arising from rubbino- the moulds with oil of sweet almonds is, preventing the necessity of dipping the moulds into warm water to get the cream out easily, which is rather a long operation. Cieam with Plum de reine-chaude is made in the same manner as the above; the proper quantity of plums to make use of are four-and-twenty, and they should be very ripe. Plums de mirabelle are done m the same way, and the same number (twenty-four) made use of. Apricot Custard, glazed.*—Cut twenty hne apneots in half, take out the stones • toss up twelve apricots in four ounces of powder sugar, and place them in a cream according to the directions for apple cus- arcl; bake and glaze as therein directed, •rut a glass of water and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar with tho rest of the fruit into a preserving-pan ; when the eyrup is properly reduced, take the skin trom the apricots and arrange them in the custard ; garnish each half apricot with a kernel, and when roady to serve, pour the By Hip on it. Serve hot or cold. Apricots, Fanchonetles of.*—Make your Unchonettes (see that articlo) as usual and garnish them lightly with apricot mar- malade ; and when baked and cold fill them with this marmalade, and finish as there directed. , Apricots, Flan Parisien*—Take five dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, and put them, a few at a time, over the fire, with hall a pound of sugar and four glasses of water ; as soon as you find the peel will come off easily, take them out and drain them, and put fresh apricots into the syrup, and proceed the same until all are peeled, then reduce the syrup to the usual consistence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound of butter, the same of su<mr* on which grate the zests of four lemons’ a little salt, eight or nine glasses of milk, and three quarters of a pound of raisins,- into a saucepan, and when it boils take it from the fire and put it on hot cinders, stirring- it occasionally for an hour, when, if the rice be quite soft, mix the yolks of ten eggs with it. 1 hen make a croustade or raised crust, of nine inches diameter, and about five or six high, into this pour about a quarter of your preparation of rice, on which put a layer of apricots with two or three spoonsful of the syrup, then pour a second portion of rice, then the apricots and sy- rup, and so on twice more; tie a paper round the flan and put it in a brisk oven ; when it has been in an hour, cover it, that the yellow tinge which it has acquired, by this time, may be preserved. This dish will take two hours and a half to bake pro- perly. When ready to send to table, it may be covered with a large meringue, if you think proper. Observe that the rice and apricots should be cold when put into the croustade. Apricot Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Take twelve small apricots, cut them into halves, and boil them in syrup. Let them drain, and take off their peel. When they are cold, make a very thin crust with brioche paste, and make a fritter for each of the halves of your apricots. Then fry them, and finish the same as fritters a la Dauphine. 1 each fritters are made in tho same man* ner as the above. Apricots (Fromage of).—Peel and stone eight or twelve ripe apricots, and pound them m a mortar with a little sugar, then rub them through a tammy with a new wooden spoon ; mix in with this a little dissolved isinglass, and a pint of thick cream well beaten. Continue to whip it over ice till the isinglass is melted andAPR APR 28 blended with the fruit; then put it into a mould, round which heap ice and salt. If you do not attend particularly to the stir- ring over ice, the fruit will fall to the bottom. In winter time apricot marmalade must be used. Apricots a la Fromage Bavaroise*— Take eighteen fine ripe apricots, let them be of a nice red colour. Cut them into small pieces, and boil them in eight ounces of clarified sugar. When they are reduced to a complete marmalade, beat them through a sieve. Then add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass and a glass of good cream. Stir the preparation well together, and then leave it to ice. When it begins to set, add to it whipped cream, and finish the same as in Green Walnuts a la Fromage Bavaroise. You may likewise mix your apricots with powdered sugar, and an hour after pass them raw through a fine sieve. Peaches may be done in tbe same manner as the above ; the proper quantity of peaches to be made use of are fifteen. Apricot Marmalade Petits Gateaux fourrds.*—Roll out some pulf-paste very thin, and divide it into two equal parts, each of which should be thirteen inches long and eight wide. Moisten a baking- tin to hold one of these layers, on which pour apot of apricot marmalade, and spread it of an equal thickness to within half an inch of the edge of the paste, which moisten lightly. Then roll the other layer round your rollingpin, and begin to place it on the first: unroll it gradually and carefully, and thus cover the whole of your marmalade ; press the edges of both toge- ther : dares the upper layer, and then with a knife mark a line across the middle, tak- ing care not to go so deep as to divide the paste; with equal care mark three lines on each side, and parallel to the first, keeping them at equal distances, say two inches and a quarter between every line. Then mark it the long way, so as to make twenty-four cakes all of the same size, and bake it in a quick oven, and when tho under side is of a clear yellow you may take it out and glaze it. When your gdteuux are cold, divide them according to the marks, which may be varied to your taste; either lozenge, crescents, circles, &c. When of tho abovementioned form, with the point of a knife mark on each cake an ear of corn, or any other design you may choose, before baking. Take care in thus marking the paste to divide, but not to cut it through. Apricots Petits Gateaux glaccs*—Make an under crust of puff paste as for these gateaux fourrCs, which cover with apricot marmalade, carefully removing any parti- cles of the kernels which may be in it; put in a moderate oven, and when the paste is sufficiently done take it out, and let it cool; then cut your gateaux of the usual forms. The apricots should be of a reddish colour when glazed. Apricots (Gateaux Parisiens of).*—Pare fifteen fine ripe apricots, divide them into quarters, and toss them up (without put- ting them on the fire), with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter melted, the same of powder sugar, with the zest of a lemon grated on it. Break the stones, blanch and cut the kernels in half, and mix them with the fruit. Prepare your gateaux exactly the same as Gateaux Parisiens of Apples ; put the apricots in very carefully, and then finish as therein directed, only that sugar is strewed over the top. Apricots, Petits Gateaux Royaui.*— Make two layers of puff paste, about fourteen inches square ; mask one of them with apricot marmalade, on which put tho other layer; cut out and finish your gateaux royaux in the same way as those made of almonds (see that recipe). Apricots and Filberts (Gimblettes of).* —Prepare some puff paste, spread apricot marmalade over it, and cover that with paste, as if for petits gateaux fourres, but making it thirteen inches square ; then with a circular paste-cutter about two inches diameter, cut out the gimblettes; then with another, only one inch across, take out the centre; cut a quarter of a pound of filberts very small, mix them with two ounces of powder sugar and a little white of egg; dorez your rings or gimblettes, and lay them that side down- wards on the filberts; then turn them tho right way, place them on a baking-tin, sprinkle powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. These may be served either hot or cold. Apricot Ice.*—Choose about thirty ripe plump apricots, cut them in half, and take out the stones, and press them through a sieve; and for a pound of this pulp boil a pound of sugar to petit lisse ; mix them to- gether and add a dozen of the kernels pounded, and infused in a glass of cold wa- ter with the juice of two lemons, and then strained through a tammy. Put the whole into your sabotiere till wanted. See Ice. Apricots in Jelly.—Pare and stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay them in a pan, and cover them with clarified sugar;APR APR 29 next day drain the syrup, and boil it smooth, then add the apricots and boil to- gether; the following day make a jelly with codlings, boiling some apricots among them, to give a better flavour. When the jelly is done, put in the other fruit with the syrup, and boil altogether; skim it well and put it in glasses. Aphicot Jelly.* — Take eighteen fine apricots, let them be of a nice red colour, stone them, and cut them in pieces into some syrup (usually made with twelve ounces of sugar, but for apricot jelly it should be rather more liquid than for other jellies). When the fruit is done, put it into a napkin, to express out all the juice you possibly can; which you must add to the syrup in which the apricots have been done, and which has been pre- viously strained through a silk sieve, and after having mixed with it a proper quan- tity of isinglass to thicken it, finish the same as all other jellies. Apricots (Petits Livrets of')* — Are made the same as apricot puffs, the only difference is, that they are cut of an ob- long; form with a knife, instead of being semicircular; they are usually about two inches and a half long, by two and a quar- ter wide. Apricot Marmalade.*—Peel the apri- cots, and take out the stones; to each pound of fruit put three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to the de- g-ree gros boulet, then put in the apricots, boil both together: when it flows readily it maybe put into pots. Apricot Marmalade.*—Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them those which are of the deepest yellow and the ripest (they must not be too ripe). Peel them, take out the stones, and chop them up ; weigh twelve pounds of them and put them into a preserving-pan, with nine pounds of powder sugar; place your pan over a quick fire, and keep your pre- paration constantly stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, let a few drops fall into a glass of cold water, and if t iey do not spread in the water your mar- malade is ready to put into pots. Add the kernels when blanched. Another method of ascertaining when your marmalade is done is by taking some on the end of your finger and thumb, and just rub them together, and if on separat- ing them you find the marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficiently done. Apricot Paste.*—Take the stones from as many apricots as you may require, and reduce them to a marmalade over the fire ; then rub them through a sieve, dry and weigh the marmalade, and boil an equal quantity of clarified sugar to petit boule, then add the fruit, and mix it well in; put them on the fire and boil them together till sufficiently done ; then pour the paste into moulds, and dry it in a stove. Apricot Paste.-—Peel and stone two pounds of ripe apricots, soak them pretty dry on the fire, and mash them very fine ; add a pound of sugar prepared d la grande plume; stir them well together on the fire till the paste quits the spoon; finish it in moulds and dry it quick. Apricot Pickle. — Apricots must be gathered just before they are ripe. Cover them with spring water well salted, and an equal quantity of bay and common salt; lay a thin board over to keep the fruit under water. When they have lain three days in water, take them out, wipe care- fully, and put them in a jar. Take as much white wine vinegar as will fill the jar, and to every gallon put a pint of the best well-made mustard, two or three heads of garlic, plenty of sliced ginger, and half an ounce of cloves, mace and nut- megs. Mix the pickle well together, and pour it over the apricots; tie it up close, and it will be fit to eat in two months. Apricot Pie*—Line a dish with puff paste, and then put in eighteen fine apri- cots (cut in halves and the stones taken out), with four ounces of sugar in powder, and four ounces of butter lukewarm. Then lay on the upper crust, glaze with the white of egg, and strew sifted sugar all over. Let it bake in a moderate oven to a nice light colour. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve it cold, you must leave out the butter. Apricots a la Portugaise* — Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them in half, and take out the stones ; place them on a silver plate, and pour over some clarified sugar, with a little water; put them on a stove without covering them; when suffi- ciently done, take them from the fire, and strew sugar over; then put on the lid of the baking-pan, and place them under the fire, to make them of a good colour. Apricots, to preserve.—Pare your apri- cots, and stone what you can whole, then give them a light boiling in water propor- tioned to the quantity of fruit, only just enough; then take the weight of the apri-30 APR APR pots in sugar, and take tlie liquor in which they have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till it comes to a syrup, and give them a light boiling, taking off the scum as it rises. When the syrup jellies it is enough; then take up the apricots and cover them with the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay them down when cold. Apricots, to preserve Green.— Gather the apricots before they have stones, which you may discover by passing a pin through them; then coddle them in several waters until they become quite green ; peel them and coddle them again; then take their weight in sugar, and make a syrup; put to the sugar some water, then put in the apricots, and set them upon the fire to boil slowly till they he clear, skimming them often, when they will be quite green. Put them in glasses, and keep them for use. Apricot Pudding.—Whisk up a pint of milk or cream, six eggs, four table-spoons- ful of fine flour, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon. Rub the apricots well through a hair sieve, and add a sufficient quantity of the pulp to make the whole a little thicker than batter; sweeten, and put it into a buttered basin, and boil an hour and a quarter. Serve with melted butter. Apricot Pudding a, la Frangaise.*— Take six-and-thirty nice fine red apricots, cut them in halves, and take out the stones, and roll them in a pan with four ounces of powdered sugar. Prepare your crust, line your mould with it, put in your apri- cots, and finish the same as in the receipt for Apple Pudding a. la Frangaise. Apricot Puffs.*—Roll out some puff paste to about fifteen inches long, the eighth of an inch in thickness, and five or six inches wide: then lay on at equal dis- tances, two inches from the edge of the paste, a small quantity of apricot manna- lade ; moisten the paste round each bit of marmalade, and turn the two inches of paste over, press it down round the pre- serve so as to unite the upper and under crusts, and to keep the marmalade from spreading ; and then with a circular paste- cutter, using half of it only, cut them out into semicircular turnovers; place them on a baking-tin, dorez and bake them in a hot oven. When nearly done, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. Apricot liaiajia.—Peel and cut into pieces as many ripe apricots as you may require, and boil them in white wine (about a pint to four dozen); strain and mix it with an equal quantity of brand)'; put the whole into a jar, with the kernels bruised, add a quarter of a pound of sugar to each pint. Let it infuse for three weeks, then filter and bottle it. Apricots (Souffle Parisien of).9—Take forty-six fine ripe apricots cut'in half and stoned, three quarters of a pound of sugar in syrup, make a dry marmalade and pass it through a sieve. Whip eighteen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and mix two spoonsful of it with the marmalade, and when it has sufficiently softened the latter, mix all together lightly and pour it into a croustade, and finish as directed for Souffle Parisien of Apples. Apricot (Liquid) Sweetmeat or Preserve.* '—Green apricots are done in the same way as green almonds: the fruit must be taken before the stone is formed; when you can put a pin through them. Apricot Sweatmeat whole and drv.*— Choose fine firm apricots, make a little opening at the top to take out the stone, put them into cold water, then blanch them over the fire ; when they begin to boil, take out those which are soft, throw them into cold water, and drain them. In the mean time, prepare some clarified sugar to petit lisse. When it boils, put in the apri- cots, and boil up a few times together. The next day separate the sugar from the fruit, boil a la nappe, and then pour it over the apricots again; the following day boil the sugar petit perle, then add die fruit, and boil together; the fourth day drain them; and, having placed diem on iron plates, sprinkle them with sugar before you put them into the stove to drv; when dry, place in boxes in layers, placing a sheet of paper between each layer. Apricot Syrup.—Take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots ; peel and cut the kernels into small pieces ; also cut up the apricots. Boil two pounds of sugar, until on blowing it flies off in sparks ; then put in the kernels and fruit, and boil them to- gether, until it forms a thread; then strain through a sieve. The sugar must be put in proportion to the time you wish to keep die syrup ; two pounds of sugar to one pound of fruit is die quantity to keep from one year to the other. ArnicoT Tart.—Cut each in two, and break the stones; if the fruit is not ripe enough, boil a little while in water, then drain them well; put them into paste with sugar, a little preserved lemon, and a fewAPR SI AQU ,of the kernels; cover it, strew sugar over, <md glaze it. Apricot Tartlets.*—Put a quarter of a pound of sugar, two glasses of water, and ■six fine ripe apricots cut in halves; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, take out the fruit with a fork and put it into a plate ; and do twelve more halves in the same sugar; take them out also, and pare the whole number. Pass the sugar through a napkin, and then put it again into your preserving-pan to reduce the syrup and make it a little thicker. Di- Jute half a pound of flour, and make it into a fine hut rather firm paste, roll it out very thin (to about the eighth of an inch); turn it over and cut from it twenty-four narrow slips; then spread out the re- mainder of your paste, and, with a round •paste-cutter, two inches in diameter, cut twenty-four cakes, and put them upon as many tartlet moulds lightly buttered; do this with as much care as possible, that no air may get between the mould and the paste. Roll each hand or slip of paste on •the slab with your hand, double and twist it into a cord, and having moistened the edges of the tartlets, put the cords round like frames; when all your tartlets are thus embellished, dorez the twisted bands, put in a small quantity of powder sugar in each tartlet, and on that lay an half apri- 'cot, the kernel side downwards. Bake them in a quick oven, and when they are of the proper colour, which should be rather yellow, take them out, put on each a spoonful of the abovementioned syrup, and finish them by placing half an apricot kernel on the top. • Apricots Glazed (Tourte of)*—Lay down a puff paste, and having moistened the edge, put a band round it, rather higher and thicker than that of the ga- teaux (see Gateaux Parisians of Apri- cots); take care to make this band join neatly, the best manner of doing which, as to cut the two ends bias, and then place tnem on each other, moisten, and press them together. Strew a spoonful of fine sugar over the bottom of the tourte, and place on that twenty-four quarters of apri- cots, each rolled m sugar; take care that none of the sugar falls on the band, as it would spoil the appearance of it; dorez the outside of it, and put in a quick oven in ten minutes see if the band rises equally* and if n he compressed in any part (which will sometimes occur, either from the heat of the oven or inattention in making the paste), detach it with the point of a knife, and then replace it in the oven as quickly as possible; when the tourte is quite done, sift sugar over and glaze it. Then take eight fine plump apricots, and boil them in a syrup made with a quarter of a pound of sugar and a glass of water ; when suffi- ciently done, drain, take off' the skin, and divide the apricots; and having taken out the stone, arrange them on the tourte like a crown, with a kernel on each ; and just before serving mask it with the syrup. Apricot Marmalade Praline. Tourte of* —Prepare the crust for the bottom of your tourte as above directed : then roll out another layer of puff paste very thin, and cut it out according to your fancy. Pour a pot of apricot marmalade on the under crust, and spread it equally over it, leaving an inch all round, which must be slightly wetted ; put the outer crust on the "mar- malade, press it down carefully, dorez the paste which covers the preserve, and cover it with two ounces of filberts cut extremely small, and mixed with two ounces of fine sugar and a very small quantity of white °f egg- Then place your band round the lower crust as above’described, dorez that also, and hake it in a quick oven. If the filberts colour too quickly, lay a double paper over them. When the tourte is done, glaze it as usual. Another way*—Make your under crust as usual, and spread the marmalade over it; roll out the puff paste very thin, sprin- kle it with flour, and cut it in slips a quar- ter of an inch wide; lay some of these slips at equal distances across your mar- malade, and others across them so as to form a. network over the preserve. You may also lay the strips of paste so as to form a star of as many points as you think proper. Apricot Wine.—Pare, and take the stones from ripe apricots, bruise and put them to six quarts of water and one of white wine, simmer gently for a consider- able time : when the fruit is soft, pour the liquid to apricots, prepared as the otheis ; let it stand twelve hours, stirring occasionally; pour off the liquid, and press tlie remains through a fine hair bag and put them together in a cask to ferment• put in about a pound of sugar to each gal- lon. Boil an ounce of mace, and halfau ounce of nutmeg, in a quart of white wine, and while hot pour it into the fermenting wine, and hang a hunch of fresh borage in the cask for three days. Draw it off and keep in bottles. AQUA Mirabilis,—Take cloves, mace*ART 32 ART nutmeg, cinnamon, galingal, cubebs, and cardamums, of each four drachms; put to them two pints of the juice of celen- dine, one pint of the juice of spearmint; balm juice, flowers of melilot, cowslip, rosemary, borage, bugloss, and mari- golds, of each one drachm; caraway, coriander, and fennel, of each four drachms; four quarts of sack, and two of white wine; the strongest brandy, angelica water, and rose water, of each a quart. Bruise the ■spices and seeds, and steep them with the herbs and flowers in their juices, waters, sack, wine, and brandy, all night. Next day distil it, and from these quantities may be drawn off two gallons. Sweeten it with sugarcandy. Keep it in a cool place in bottles. ARTICHOKES and Almonds, a me- lange.—Take half a pound of sweet al- monds blanched and beat fine, with two tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water ; then take a quart of cream, and boil it with a small quantity of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it with fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds ; stir them together, and strain it through a sieve. Let the cream cool, and thicken it with the yolks of six eggs; then garnish a deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom; then put in shred ar- tichoke bottoms, being first boiled; and upon these a little melted butter, shred citron, and candied orange ; repeating the same until the dish is nearly full, then pour in the cream, and bake it without a lid. When it is baked, grate sugar over it, and serve it hot. Half an hour will serve to bake it. Artichokes (i la Barigoule*—Cut the ends of the leaves from three artichokes, and blanch them for about twenty mi- nutes in boiling water; let them cool, take out the chokes and drain them ; then fry them in very hot butter. Put into a sauce- pan half a pound of grated bacon, as much butter and oil, chop some mushrooms very small, with a spoonful of shred shalots, the same of parsley, a little spice, salt and pepper ; do these all up together, let the mixture cool, and then, having drained the artichokes, fill them with it, tie them up and braise them for three quarters of an hour. Take off the string and place the artichokes in your dish, with a little Espagnole or Italienne. Artichokes a la Barigcule.*—Take two or three artichokes, according to the size of your dish, cut away the stalk and half the leaves; put them into a stewpan with p little stock or water, two spoonsful of good oil, a little salt and pepper, an onion, two roots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil the whole until the sauce is nearly consumed; then fry the artichokes to make them crisp; next, put them in a baking, dish with the sauce that remains; take out the choke, and colour the leaves with a salamander or in a hot oven; serve with a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Artichokes Boiled.—Take six or eight young artichokes, cut and neatly trim them, throw them into cold water as you do them. Boil them for half an hour in boiling water, with a handful of salt, then drain, and place them on a dish: serve with melted butter. Artichoke Bottoms en Canape .*—Rub as many artichoke bottoms as you may re- quire with lemon juice, and boil them in water with butter, salt, and lemon or ver- juice ; when done, take them out and drain them. Garnish them with hard yolks of eggs, fine herbs minced, truffles boiled and cut very small, capers, gherkins, filets of anchovies, and carrots; place these with the artichoke bottoms, in the table- dish, seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar : to be served cold, and garnished with cresses. Artichoke Bottoms a, Vecarlate *—Turn and boil fourteen artichoke bottoms the same as for artichokes a la magnonnaise, then cut off one third from each of your artichokes. Then place them upright on the cut side two by two, in a dish in the form of a crown. Cut seven slices from beef or ox palates, cut these again into semicircles and ornament the outer ridges a dents de loup, or notch them. Place these semicircles between the artichoke bottoms. Then cut the remainder of the artichokes and the cuttings of the palates into dice, which must be tossed in a mag- nonnaise d la ravigotte. Pour this into the centre of the crown, or rather into the middle of the dish. You may also mask the artichoke bot- toms with a white magnonnaise, and serve slices of tongue in the centre of your crown. This entrcmct is usually served with oil, and with ravigotte chopped very fine. Or you may serve a good macedoine in the centre of the crown, or heads of as- paragus, or French beans <i la huile. Artichoke Bottoms in Jelly*—1 urn and boil ten artichoke bottoms the same as tor artichokes a la magnonnaise. hen they are cold, carefullv pare six of the finest, and cut the remaining four (with a root-S3 ART ART cutter two inches or two inches and a quarter in diameter); in such a manner that each artichoke bottom shall give you three circles, these circles must all be of the same thickness. Place these circles two by two in a dish, in which you have previously put a sufficient quantity of as- pic jelly to fill up the bottom of your dish. Place upon these little circles (which ought to be placed at equal dis- tances) the six artichoke bottoms, so as to form a cup, and fill up the inside of them with aspic jelly. Garnish your dish either with jelly or roots. Artichoke Bottoms a la MacMoine, are prepared in the same way as for artichokes a la Magnonnaise, but you garnish them on a dish en pyramide with a dessert spoonful of prepared macedoine, or small green Trench beans (three quarters of an inch long), or heads of asparagus. The artichokes for these entremets must be marinated in salt, herbs, oil, and tar- ragon vinegar, for two hours, they must then drain on a plate. Artichoke Bottoms d la Magnonnaise .* •—Strip off the leaves from eight arti- chokes, and turn them ; as you turn them rub them over with the half of a lemon, and throw them into cold water. When your artichokes are thus prepared, put them into a middling-sized stewpan with boiling water, two ounces of butter, the juice of two lemons, and some salt; as soon as they boil, place the stewpan by the side of the stove ; cover the artichokes with a round piece of buttered paper, and leave them to simmer. When they have simmered until they are tender, drain them, take out the core, and dress them all round. Then let them marinate in a pan with oil, vinegar, salt, and whole pep- per, for two hours ; you must then drain them ; after this, cut each artichoke into two parts, one part a little larger than the other; take the largest of the two parts, and cut them into two equal parts, and place them on a dish in the form of a crown ; then take the other parts, and cut them into two equal parts, the same as you cut the others, and place them in the lorm of a crown, over the others; this forms a double crown, and is a very pretty manner of serving this vegetable cold as an entremet. When it is served, you pour into the middle of your crown a magnon- nuise, either white or green. Artichoke Bottoms (ragoAt of). Trim them and boil them with some good o-ravv mushroom ketchup or powder, cayenne pepper and salt, thickened with a little Hour. Artichokes. Blondins .*■—Half boil some artichokes, and put them into a stewpan with a slice of veal, a little bacon, and some broth ; let them stew till tender, then pour over them the yolks of three e§fCs diluted with cream, and a little chop- ped parsley; let it thicken, but not boil, and serve it hot. Artichokes en Caisson—’Trim and boil young artichokes, take off the leaves and separate the bottoms ; pound together streaked bacon and sausage-meat, and lay a little on an artichoke bottom, and cover it with another; dip them in batter or eggs beaten; strew them with bread crumbs, and fry them of a fine colour * place fried parsley under them. Artichokes dried red.—Boil your arti- chokes in water till soft, then take them out, pound some cochineal very fine, and mix in fresh water; boil the artichokes with this a quarter of an hour, and then put them in bags to dry. Artichokes fried. — Cut your arti- chokes, according to their size, in four or eight pieces ; take out the choke and clear away the large leaves, wash them well in two or three waters, drain and then dip them m a paste made with flour, cream and yolks of eggs ; fry in oil or dripping! When you take them out of the frying- pan sprinkle them with salt, and serve on inecl parsley. Artichokes glazed,—Blanch your arti- chokes, dry and place them in a stewpan, with some onions sliced, some veal and lean ham and bacon ; let them sweat gen- tly till they begin to stick to the bottom then moisten them with a little broth in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled • when sufficiently done, pass the liquo? through a napkin. Let it cool, and when it has become a jelly, pour it over the arti- chokes and glaze them. Artichokes d I’ltalienne.—Mix a little veal gravy with some butter and a little Hour, crumble some bread into a dish and pour some of the sauce, and grate parme- san cheese over it; place your artichokes on this; pour over the remainder of the sauce, and sprinkle over the whole grated bread and parmesan cheese. Bake it of a good colour and serve very hot. Artichokes a la Lyonnaise.* — Take three large artichokes, and divide each into eight pieces, removo the hard parts, the choke, and nearly all the leaves; trim "" u,t remains and throw them into cold D34 ART ART water as you do them; wash and drain them well, spread half a pound of butter on the bottom of a stewpan, and lay your artichokes on it, sprinkling them with salt and pepper : half an hour before they are wanted, put them over a brisk fire, cover the stewpan and put fire on that also, taking care they do not burn. When they are of a nice light colour serve them, pouring the butter over them. Artichokes pickled.—Boil some arti- chokes till you can pull the leaves off, take out the choke and cutaway the stalk ; he careful that the knife does not touch the top. Throw them into salt and water; when they have lain an hour, take them out and drain them, then put them into jars or glasses, and put a little mace and sliced nutmeg between; fill them with the best white vinegar and spring water boiled. Cover your jars close. Artichoke Pie.—Boil twelve artichokes, break off the leaves and chokes, and take the bottoms clear from the stalks ; line the dish with puff paste, and lay on it four ounces of fresh butter. Place a row of artichokes, strew over them pepper, salt, and beaten mace, then a layer of arti- chokes ; strew on more spice and a quar- ter of a pound of butter cut in small pieces. Boil half an ounce of truffles and morels, chopped small, in a quarter of a pint of water, and pour it into the pie, with a gill of white wine. Cover your pie and bake. Artichokes preserved the Spanish wap.— Take the largest artichokes, cut off the tops of the leaves, wash and well drain them ; to every artichoke pour in a table- spoonful of Florence oil, and season them witli pepper and salt. Bake them in an oven, and they will keep for ten or twelve months. Artichokes preserved whole*—Choose middle-sized artichokes, take off all the useless leaves and trim them, plunge them into boiling, and then into cold water; when drained, put them into bottles, make them air-tight, surround the bottles witli cloths, and place them in a kettle full of cold water, cover the lid also with wet cloths. When it has been boiling about two hours, take the kettle from the fire; in a quarter of an hour draw off the water and uncover the kettle ; do not take out the bottles in less than an hour; the next day tar the bottlos. Artichokes, a la Provenfale*•—Take five or six young artichokes, take away the largest leaves, and clear away the sharp edges. Blanch them in boiling water until you can take out the choke ; put into its place the following :—pound streaky bacon with some pig, or the white part of poultry or game. Place them at the bottom of a stewpan with some slices of bacon, parsley, and morels cut small, salt, pepper, and a little salad oil. Let them stew until the under leaves are crisp. Serve with a little veal gravy. Another icay.*—Prepare three artichokes as for barigoule. Divide a dozen onions into quarters, which cut into thin slices ; put them, with half a pound of butter, into a stewpan; when lightly coloured, mix with them three pounded anchovies ; stuff your artichokes with this and braise them. Serve them with espagnole sauce. Artichoke Salad*—Trim and boil your artichokes ; drain, cut them in quarters, and put them in a dish ; garnish the spaces between each witli sweet herbs, and dress it with the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of vinegar, two spoonsful of oil, sweet herbs chopped fine, salt, and pepper. Artichokes a la St. Cloud.—Trim and boil them till the chokes come out; then drain and let them cool; have ready as many small pigeons, stewed and well sea- soned, as you have artichokes, each of which must be stuffed with a pigeon; dip them in good batter made of flour, eggs, a spoonful of oil, and a little salt; fry in a very hot pan with plenty of dripping. Artichokes aux Verges.*—Trim three or four artichokes, season and dress them a la braise, let them drain and take out the choke; serve them with the following sauce—a bit of butter rolled in flour, the yolks of two eggs, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper ; when it has thickened over the fire, put in a few sour grapes, pre- viously boiled in a little water, and pour the whole over them. Artichoke Suckers, the Spanish trap.— Clean and wash them, and cut them in halves, boil them in water, and put them into a stewpan with a little oil, a little water, and a small quantity of vinegar; season them with pepper and salt; stew them a short time, and then thicken them with yolks of eggs. Or the following: Clean them, and half boil them; then dry them, flour them, dip them in yolks of eggs, and fry them. Artichoke (Jerusalem).—They must be neatlv peeled, and boiled very gently by the side of the stove, with a little salt in tlie water ; when done (hut not too much, or the}- will not look well) place them on the dish, and serve with plain butter, orASP oo ASP any other sauce you please, white or brown. ASPARAGUS boiled.—Scrape and tie them in small bundles; cut them even, boil them quiet in salt and water; lay them on a toast dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in; pour over them melted butter, or oil, pepper, &cc. Asparagus bottled.*■—Clean the as- paragus as for boiling. Before you bottle them plunge them first into boiling, then into cold water; place those which are unbroken carefully into bottles, the heads downwards, proceed in the same manner as in doing the artichokes. Asparagus in Cream.*—-Choose the finest asparagus, and dress it as usual; parboil half a pint of cream and a little butter and flour, shake it about, and when the butter is melted, season it moderately, and pour it over the asparagus. Asparagus en Croustade*—Mix up the yolks of four eggs in some paste a. nouille, then form it into an under crust, cut it into a band nineteen inches long, and two inches and a quarter wide. With the cuttings of your paste form a round ten inches in diameter, and around this put your band in form of a croustade, pinch up your paste into proper shape, and ornament it lightly round ; dorez and put it to dry in a slow oven; this done, take a fine head of as- paragus and place it, standing upright, in the middle of your croustade, surround this with six more heads of asparagus nine inches in length, surround these -with twelve more, eight inches in length ; round these put seventeen more, seven inches in length; add two more rounds of as- paragus heads, the one six inches, and the other five inches in length. Great attention should be paid to the boiling of asparagus for this entremet, as it should be of a very nice green colour anrt the moment it is sufficiently boiled it ?p'ouli be put into cold water to cool it this is an extremely pretty and ornamental way ot Semng this vegetable cold. It should be eaten with oil. broASrAKR»US and Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish; butter some eggs thus: Take four eggs ■beat them well, put them into a saucel pan with two ounces of butter, and a little salt, until of a sufficient consistence, ana lay them on the toast; meanwhile boil ■some asparagus tender, cut the ends small and lay them on the eggs. Asparaous and Eggs.*—Blanch some isparagus; cut it as for asparagus pease. and stew it in a little cream and butter; beat up a dozen eg-gs and fry them as for an omelet; and when they begin to set, mix the asparagus in it; when of a good colour on both sides, serve it very hot. Asparagus Fritada*—Take young as- paragus, break off the green heads, boil them till tender, then drain on a sieve. Beat up eggs, pepper, and salt; stir up the asparagus intlie eggs, and fry ia frit- ters. Do them in oil. Asparagus forced in French rolls. Take out the crumb of three French rolls, by first cutting a piece of the top crust'off aud be careful that the crust fits again the’ same place. Fry the rolls brown in fresh butter; then take a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg; stir them well together over a slow fire till it begins to thicken. Have prepared a hundred of small grass boiled then save tops sufficient to stick the rolls with, the remainder cut small and put into the cream, fill the loaves with them. Be- fore frying the rolls make holes thick in the top crust, and stick the grass in ; then lay on the piece of must, and stick the grass in, that it may look as if it were growing. AsrARAcus Italian fashion.—Take the asparagus, break the tops in pieces, then boil them soft, and drain the water from tiem; take a little oil, water, andvine°ur let it boil season it with pepper and salt - throw m the asparagus, and thicken with tiie yolks of eggs. Endive done this way is good; the Spaniards add sugar, but that spoils them Green pease done as above are very o-ood - only add a lettuce cut small, and two or three onions, and leave out the e™s Asparagus IW.*-Cut some asparagus to the form and size of pease, blanch them in boiling water, then put them into a stewpan with melted butter, parsley, scal- hons and tarragon; moisten them with it wilb ti?am’,idd ?°mo suSar> an<l thicken it w itli tiio yolks of e^^s. Asparagus pickled.—Cut and wash the green heads of the largest asparagus ; let them lie two or three hours in cold water warn'! ,Ven; cnrefully in salt and water, then lay them on a cloth to cool. Make a pickle according to the quantity of your asparagus, of white wine vinegar and bay salt, and boil it. To a gallon^ pickle put. two nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce ol mace, the same of whole white peppei, and pour the pickle hot, over them. Gover the jar with a thick cloth, and lot n 2ASP ASP 36 it stand a weelc, then boil the pickle; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time: when cold cover the jar close. Asparagus Ragout.—Scrape and clean some asparagus, use the prime part only ; wash a head, or two of endive, and a lettuce; cut them small; fry altogether till nearly dry in butter with a little sha- lot; shake in some flour, stir them about, put in some cullis, pepper, and salt; stew all till the sauce is thick enough ; garnish with a few of the asparagus heads plain boiled. Asparagus Salad.—Scale and cut off the Leads of large asparagus ; boil them till nearly done ; strain and put them into very cold water for five minutes, and drain them dry, afterwards lay them in rows on a dish; garnish with slices of lemon, and dressing as other salads. Asparagus Soup with Green Pease.— Make a good soup of roots, and, when strained, boil a pint of green pease. Choose some middling-sized asparagus ; cut them in pieces about three inches long, blanch them in boiling water, and then throw them into cold water; drain and tie them in small bundles ; split the tips and boil them with the pease, when done make a puree of them, and mix it with the root soup, and garnish with the asparagus. Use good meat broth for the root soup. Kiln-dried green pease may be used, if you cannot procure fresh new pease, and if your soup fails in colour, green it with some spinach that has been boiled nearly enough, squeezed dry, and passed through a tammy. ASPIC.*—Take a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and if they will not make your jelly stiff enough, add two calf’s feet; put them into a saucepan with a pint of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four cloves, two bay leaves, and a clove of garlic ; let the whole stew for seven hours, then strain off the liquor or consomme. Break four eggs into a stewpau, and put to them the con- sommd when cold, the juice of two lemons, and two spoonsful of' tarragon, and beat it with a whisk over the fire till near boil- ing, and when it does so, remove your stewpan to a smaller fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour ; then pass it through a jelly-bag, or wetnapkin doubled, taking care to return back to the bag the first that runs out. If the jelly is not suffi- ciently clear, clarify it a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, about half an inch thick, at the bottom of an aspic mould, garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, pour in another half inch of the jelly, while liquid, with great care, so as not to discompose your garnish, then put either calf’s brains, breasts of fowl, veal sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, kidneys, fat livers, or game. Be sure to lay whatever you may use, as equal and smooth as pos- sible, then fill up your mould with jelly, and let it stand till set. When wanted dip the mould in hot water an instant, place your dish on the top and turn it over. This jelly may also be used much in garnishing cold things. Aspic (clear).*—Put a little mirepoi, a glass of vinegar, a little whole pepper, and a handful of tarragon into a saucepan, boil them to a jelly, and then dilute it with two ladiesful of fowl consomme; set it by the side of the stove, take off the fat; clarify it with an egg and a little cold water, and pass it through a double napkin. Put the aspick in a bain-marie. Serve it with blanched tarragon leaves cut in lozenges. It is used as a sauce for fowls, fried fish, &c. Aspic of Chickens’ breasts.*—I rim up four breasts of chickens seasoned with salt and pepper, and then leave them to cool. Put four ladiesful of veloutd, and four spoonsful of jelly into a stewpan, and reduce them to half; then add the yolk of an egg, a little shred parsley, a bit of but- ter the size of an egg; mix them all toge- ther well and pour it over the chickens ; when cold put them in the aspic mould in layers with cocks’ combs, kidneys, fillets of chickens dressed like the breasts, and put in cold ; dissolve your jelly, fill up tlio mould with it, and let it cool and set. Turn it out as usual. Aspic (little) ii la modern e*—Have ready eight small timbale moulds, two inches and a half in diameter, and three high ; fill and decorate them as the large aspic. Turn them out, and place one in the centre of your dish, six round it, and the eighth on that which stands in the centre, Garnish with a border of jelly, or coloured butter. Aspic Sauce.—Intuse chervil, tarragon, bumet, garden cress, and mint, in some cullis for about an hour; then strain, and add to it a spoonful of vinegar, garlic, pepper, and salt. Serve it cold in a sauce- boat.BAB yr BAC AUSTRIAN Soup.—Cut a large chicken BACCHIC Cream*—Put a pint and a in pieces; try it in butter with sweet half of white wine, with some lemon peel, herbs ; boil it in good broth, and then roll coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and it in crumbs of bread and Parmesan cheese; three ounces of sugar, into a stewpan, and colour it with a salamander. Lay thin let them boil a quarter of an hour ; then slices of bread with grated Parmesan mix half a tea-spoonful of flour with the cheese on them, then a layer of cabbages yolks of six eggs in another stewpan, and with more slices of bread ; add the broth, stir in by degrees the other previously and stew till it catches a little at bottom ; boiled ingredients. When about half cold, grate on a little more cheese ; hrown it, strain the whole through a sieve, and put it add a little more broth, and serve the in a dish or mould in hot water, over the BABA.—Take three pounds of flour, stock, and a pint of white wine, boil them one quarter of which put apart and mix together till reduced to nearly half; then into dough, with a gill of good yeast and put in some shalots, garden cress, ’tarra- a little warm water ; cover it close in a gon, chervil, parsley, leeks, &c. all shred stewpan and set it by the fire to rise; when very fine, season with whole pepper and you see the dough rise and nearly ready, salt. Boil up the whole together once ; form the other parts of the flour in a circle serve with a little cullis. This sauce is’ on the table, in the centre of which put good with any meat. half an ounce of salt, one ounce of sugar, BACON to broil'.— Make up a sheet of a pound and a half of butter, and twelve paper into the form of a dripping-pan ; cut ®88s> w*th a table-spoonful of saffron your bacon into thin slices, cut oft’ the (mix the butter and eggs well together rind, lay the bacon on the paper, put it on before you put it to the flour) ; when all is the gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will mixed spread it out, and put the dough broil cleanlv. chicken at the top. fire, till the cream is set; lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool place till ready to serve. B. Bacchic Sauce.*—Put a spoonful of fine oil into a saucepan, with half a pint of good “'“uiu, uiuve in a luieraoiy not oven, brick oven is the best. a in the middle. The cabbages should be 1 ~OJ having buttered a mould, preparation and bake it. ’ J)ac°n, vajmnoit, to bake.—Lay it to I r in your steep all night in water, scrape it olean. and stuff it with all manner of sweet38 BAL BAD herbs, as thyme, sage, savory, sweet mar- joram, pennyroyal, parsley, and onions ; chop these small, and mix them with the yolks of hard eggs, pepper, and nutmeg, beaten, and boil it until tender. When it is cold pare off the under side, pull off the skin, season it with pepper and nutmeg, and put it in a pie or pasty, with whole cloves and slices of raw bacon laid over it; close it, and bake it. Bacon (to make).*—Rub the flitches well with common salt, and let them lie so that the brine may run from them. In about a week rub oft’ all the salt and put them into a tub. Then rub into the flitches a pound of saltpetre, pounded aud heated; the next day do the same with common salt, also heated. Let them lie a week, often rubbing, then turn and rub them; do the same for three weeks or a month. At the end of that time dry and hang them up for use, and dust it well all over, as it dries, with malt dust. Bacon Omelet.*■—Cut some streaky bacon, which has been hoiled for half an hour, into dice, and fry it simply with a bit of butter. When it begins to get crisp, pour into the fryingpan a dozen eggs (previously beaten), stir them well with the bacon, gather up the edges of the omelet, to keep it of a proper thickness, and season with pepper. Bacon Tart.—Melt a pound of fat ba- con in a fryingpan, and strain it with the bottoms of two or three artichokes, two macaroons, and the raw yolks of a couple of eggs; season with salt, pepper, beaten cinnamon, and sugar; then set it on the fire, stirring it continually with a spoon, then put it into a pattypan upon a very thin sheet of paste, bake it for half an hour without any covering or paste, then ice it over with icing made of sugar and orange- flower water. Bacon Toast.*— Cut off the ends of a stale large roll, and lard the middle with streaked bacon; then with a very sharp knife cut the roll in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, dip them in egg, and fry gently in a very hot pan, until of a good colour. Serve with clear sauce, with a little vinegar and pepper. I he bacon must first have been boiled. \ou may vary it by adding fine herbs chopped, and pepper, with the egg. _ , . . BADIANE, Indian*—Take a pound of starred anise, pound and infuse it in six quarts of good brandy for a week, when add to it a pint and a half of water, and distil it. Dissolve seven pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, and add it to the distilled liquor. Stir it well, strain and bottle it. This is also called Badiane Cream. Some persons colour it with a little cochineal, it is then called Oil of Badiane. BAIN Marie.—A flat vessel, containing boiling water, meant to hold oilier sauce- pans, either for purposes of cookery, or to keep dishes hot. The advantage of pre- servingthe heat of dishes by the bain-marie is this, that no change is effected in the flavour of the ingredients, and they neither discolour nor reduce. BAKING.—The following useful ob- servations, written by Mr. lumer, Eng- lish and French Bread and Biscuit Baker, at the instance of the author of the Cook s Oracle, are printed in that very popular work: “ Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of dressing a dinner in small families; and I may say, that the oven is often the only kitchen a poor man has, if he wishes to enjoy a joint of meat at home with his family. “ I do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roasting, to baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly ap- proach to the same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the table, and eaten as such with great satis- faction. “ Legs and loins of pork, legs of mut- ton, fillets of veal, and many other joints, will bake to great advantage if the meat be good, I mean well fed, rather inclined to be fat; if the meat be poor, no baker can give satisfaction. “ When baking a joint of poor meat, before it has been halt baked, 1 have seen it start from tire bone, and shrivel up scarcely to be believed. _ • “ Besides those joints above-mentioned, I shall enumerate a few other dishes, which I can particularly recommend^ See Pig, Goose, Buttock of Beef, Ham. BALM IPtne.—Boil twenty pounds of lump sugar in four gallons and a half of water gently for an hour, and put it in a tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the tops of green balm, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeast, and when the syrup is nearly cold pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently; brin<'r it up, and when it has stood for six weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into each bottle ; cork it tight. The longer it is kept the better it will be.39 BAR BAR BALSAM (Syrup of).—Put an ounce of balsam of Tolu into a quart of spring water, and boil them two hours; add a pound of white pounded sugarcandy, and boil it half an hour longer. Take out the balsam, and strain the syrup twice ; when cold, bottle it. BAMBOO (English).—Cut the large young shoots of elder, take off the outer peel or skin, and lay them in strong salt and water one night. Dry each piece separately in a. cloth. Have ready a pickle made as follows: To a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, the same of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, pour this boiling hot on the elder shoots, in a stone jar, stop it close, and set it by the fire two hours, turning it often. If not green when cold, strain off the liquor, boil, and pour it on as before. BANBURY Cakes. Make some dough with two table-spoonsful of thick yeast, a gill of warm milk, and a pound of flour; when it has worked a little, mix with it half a pound of currants washed and picked, half a pound of candied orange and lemon peel cut small, allspice, ginger, and nut- meg, of each a quarter of an ounce ; mix the whole together -with half a pound of honey. Put them into puff paste, cut in an oval form, cover and sift sugar over: bake them a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. BARBADOES Cream.*—Take the zests of three fine cedrats, two" drachms of cinnamon, and two of mace, and put them into three quarts of brandy; close the vessel hermetically, and let it infuse lor a week, then distil it in an alembic. Dissolve over the fire three pounds of sugar in a quart of pure river water, add to it half a pound of orange-flower water work the mixture, and filter it through a straining bag into bottles for use. Barbadoes Water.—Take the outer nnd of eight large florentine citrons, half an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and a gallon of rectified spirit; distil in the bain-mlT- dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water; mix it with the distilled liquor • filter and bottle it for use 1 ' In&D0ES„Water (amber-coloured)._ Infuse the yellow nnd of six bergamots dlf an ounce ot cinnamon, and two drachms of cloves bruised, for six clays ,n apl'on of rectified spirit; then add^a drachm of saftron, and let the whole stand six days longer. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add it to the infusion, and filter for use. BARBEL boiled.—Boil them in salt nnd water: when sufficiently done, pour away part of the water, and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, some nutmeg, mace, and the juice of a lemon ; thicken it a little with rouse, boil these well together with two or three anchovies, then put in the fish, simmer a short time, and serve it with the sauce strained over it. Shrimps or oysters may be added. Barbel broiled.—Do them in white paper, with sweet herbs chopped small, and butter. Barbel broiled with Sauce a. VHuile.* —Take a barbel; gut it, scrape off the scales, wash it, let it drain; wipe it dry, and split it down the back. Then' ma- rinate it in oil, with salt and whole pep- per ; broil it whole, being very careful not to let it burn. Sprinkle it with oil; turn it, and take care that the white side is of a nice colour ; when it is broiled, dress it in a dish, and garnish with slices of lemon (taking out the pips and the white) ; and serve with Sauce a I’huile. Barbel, ait court Bouillon.—Take a good-sized barbel and draw it, but not scale it; lay it on a dish and throw on it vinegar and salt, scalding hot; then put into your fishpan, white wine, verjuice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, bay leaves, onion, lemon or orange peel, set it on the fire, and when it boils very fast, put in. your barbel, and when boiled enough, take it up and serve it dry upon a clean napkin, with anchovy sauce and capers. Barbel, Poupeton of.—Scale, bone, and skin two or three barbels of a moderate size, lay the flesh on a table with the flesh of a good-sized eel, some mushrooms, parsley, and slialots, minced and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet basil shred; pound three or four cloves, with a dozen coriander seeds in a mortar and sift it, then put in the minced fish, with a good piece of butter, and pound all together; set these simmering in milk or cream, and about a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread ; beat up in it the 3-olks of four eggs when it is thickened enough, and let it stand to cool; then put into a mortar the yolks of four raw eggs, and the bread and cream when it is cold, and pound it well together. Then make a ragout of slices of barbel ns follows ; first peel small mushrooms, cut some slices of barbel, rub them with melted butler and broil them; set a saucepan over the firoBAR BAR 40 ■with a piece of butter, when it is melted, put in a little flour, and brown it; then put in the mushrooms, and let them have two or three turns ; put in a little fish broth to moisten them, and salt, pepper, and a faggot of sweet herbs. When your barbel is broiled, take oft'the skin, cut the flesh into long slices, put them among the mushrooms in the same pan, with tails of crayfish, and asparagus tops blanched ; let them simmer over a gentle fire. When all is enough, take the fat off your ragout, and put in some cullis of veal and ham; then take it off the fire, set it to cool; rub a saucepan with fresh butter, spread of the farce over it an inch thick, or more; beat up an egg, and rub it over it to make the farce lie the smoother, place your ragout in the bottom, cover the poupeton with the same farce, rub it over with beaten eggs, and bake it in an oven, or baking-cover, with fire over and under it, when it is baked turn it upside down, make a hole in the middle of the farce, the bigness of a crown piece; pour in some cullis of crayfish, and serve it hot. Barbel stewed.-—Scale and gut a large barbel, wash it first in vinegar and salt, afterwards in water; put it into a stew- pan, with eel broth sufficient to cover it; add some cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, let them stew gently till the fish is done, then take it out, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, and pour over the fish. Barbel, to stew.—Scald and draw the barbels, then put some wine, fresh butter, pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs into the stewpan, and put in the fish; knead a bit of butter with, a little flour; and when they are ready, put it in to thicken the same, and serve it up. Another way,—Some use no butter, but otherwise dress them as above; and when they are stewed, they serve them with a ragout made of mushrooms, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, fresh butter, pepper, and salt, broth made of fish, or juice of onions. BARBARY Biscuits.—Press the juice through a sieve from two pounds of bar- berries, and mix with it five pounds of sifted sugar; whisk the whites of four eggs and add them to the fruit; prepare some square paper cases, fill them with the jam, make them quite smooth, lay them on sieves, and put them into a stove, and let them remain six or eight days. W hen perfectly dry, take away the papers: keep them in a dry place. Barberries, to Candy. — Take the barberries out of the preserve, and wash oft the syrup in warm water; then sift over them some fine sugar, and set them in an oven, often moving them, and strewing sugar upon them until they are | dry. Barberry Conserve.*—Put a pound of ripe barberries and half an ounce of I powdered fennel seed into a silver vessel, with a glass of water; boil them three or four times, and press the juice through a sieve. Replace the vessel on the fire with the juice, and add to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au casst. Boil to- gether a few times, and then pour the conserve into cases. Barberry Conserve.*—Take out the seeds from a pound and a half of very ripe barberries, put some water into a deep silver dish or pan, and put in your barberries as you seed them; after this boil them with one ounce of powdered fennel seed until the barberries are broken; then squeeze them in a sieve or through a cloth, to extract the juice from them; clean the vessel in which you put your barberries at first; and put into it the juice just extracted from the fruit, and pour on it two pounds of sugar boiled au casst; then boil this preparation until the sugar is done to petit casst; take it off the fire and stir it with a spoon until the sugar bubbles up, and pour it into moulds. Barberry Drops.—Cut off the black tops, and roast the fruit before the fire till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin, then set the basin in a saucepan of water the size of the top of the basin, and stir the barberries till they become thick. When cold, put to every pint, a pound and a half of the best sugar pounded as fine as possible. Beat the fruit and sugar together for two hours and a half (or more for a large quantity), then drop it on sheets of white thick paper. If, when you drop, it runs, there is not sugar enough, and it will look rough if you put too much. Barberry Ice.—Put some barberries into a pan without water, set it over a gentle fire, stirring them constantly; when warm, pass them through a sieve, into a pan, add to the liquor clarified sugar; if too thick, put a little water, but no lemon juice, as the barberries are sufficiently acid without; then put it into the sabotiere to congeal.BAR BAR, 41 Barberry Ice Cream.—Put a large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint of cream; add the juice of a lemon and a little cochineal; stir it well, and finish as directed, see Ice. Barberry Ice (Water). — Mix one spoonful of barberry jam with the juice of a lemon, a pint of water, and a little cochineal; pass it through a sieve and freeze it; take care that it is thick and smooth before you put in moulds. Barberry Jelly.—Pick a pint of bar- berries, and put them into a stewpan with boiling water, cover it close and let it stand till nearly cold. Set on the fire some clarified sugar with a little water, (making a quart together); when it be- gins to boil, skim it well, put in the bar- berries, let them boil an hour; squeeze the juice of three lemons through a sieve into a basin, to this pass the liquor from the barberries, and then the isinglass. Barberry Jelly *—Take some very ripe barberries (what quantity you please) and before you seed them take two thirds of their weight in sugar. Boil your sugar au perle, then put your barberries into it, and give the whole a few boilings; then pass it through a silk sieve into a pan, pressing the barberries with a spoon to extract as much juice as possible from them: this done, put it again over the fire, and when you perceive it begins to form the scum, take it off and pour it into pots. Barberry Marchpane.*—Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of bar- berries ; pound the almonds to a paste, mix them with the sugar boiled to petit boule, and then add the juice of the bar- berries strained; stir them together well, and place them on hot ashes, stirring them continually until the paste is formed; then put it on a table sprinkled with sugar and let it cool; spread it out about the thick- ness of a crown piece, cut it into various orms, place them on sheets of paper, and bake them in a moderate oven and glaze SEk pJP°eUr may USe any 0ther fluit Barberry Marmalade—Take three pounds of very ripe barberries, the same quantity of sugar, and a pound of water • put the water into a deep broad silver or copper pan and as you take the seeds out ot the barberries, throw the latter into water, then give them a few boilings over the fire: after this put them into a sieve ana bruise them to extract the pulp, which must again be put over the fire until the moisture has entirely evaporated. This done, if the pan in which you put your barberries at first was of copper, pour the pulp which was extracted from the fruit into an earthen vessel to prevent the acid of the fruit when heated from acting on the copper; but if your vessel was of sil- ver, you may safely put your pulp into it when heated, then pour upon the pulp the sugar, which must be previously cla- rified and boiled au casse; give the whole a few boilings, stirring it well with a wooden spoon, then pour your marmalade into pots. Barberry Paslile.—Dissolve half an ounce of gum dragon in a glass of water, strain it in a cloth or bag, and put it into a mortar, with a spoonful of barberry mar- malade ; mix it well, and add as much powder sugar as will make it into a malle- able paste; you may also put in a little cochineal dissolved; form it into what shapes you please. Barberry Pickle.—Bruise and strain ripe barberries, and to a pint of juice put three pints of vinegar, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of salt, and a quar- ter of an ounce of pounded ginger. Boil all together, skim it clean, and pour it while boiling into jars in which have been put bunches of ripe barberries. When cold, add a little bruised cochineal. Tie them close. Barberries preserved in Bunches.* Choose those barberries which have the largest seeds, which may be extracted care- fully with the nib of a pen. Weigh your fruit, and mix it with an equal wei°*ht of sugar boiled to petit bouli; boil them to. gether two or three times, and skim it. Set it aside in an earthen vessel until the next day, when it may be put in pots and covered. Barberries preserved.’*—Takelarve and ripe barberries of a fine red coloui-, and pick them.. Boil sugar to la plume, and then throw in your barberries, and do them together seven or eight times. Skim, and put it in pots. Barberry Syrup.—Pick the barberries, bou and pulp them, then strain them, aud clarify the juice ; then boil it up with as many pounds of fine sugar into a syrup, and if that does not make it thick enough, add more sugar. Barberry Wafers.—Press out the juice liom ns many burberries as you may re- quire, and mix it with powder sugar, and the white of one egg, and stir it up with aBAR BAR 42 wooden or silver spoon, to a fine paste. Lay a sheet of wafer paper on a baking-plate, and spread your paste over it very thin with a knife; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them round a stick (the paste up- wards), in a hot stove, to curl; when half curled, take them off carefully, and set them up endwise in a sieve ; let them stand for a whole day in a hot stove. Barberry Water. — Put two large spoonsful of barberry jam, the juice of two lemons and a gill of syrup in a basin, and dilute it with water; add a little co- chineal, and if not rich enough, more syrup; strain it through a fine sieve. BARLEY Broth.—Chop a leg of beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of water, with a carrot and a crust of bread, till re- duced to half; then strain it off and put it into the pot again with half a pound of bar- ley, four or five heads of celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a little chopped parsley, and a few marigolds. Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock, or large fowl, and put it into the pot, boil till the broth is quite good. Season with salt, take out the onion and herbs, and serve it. The fowl may be omitted. Barley Cream.—Boil a small quantity of pearl barley in milk and water, till tender, strain off the liquor, and put the barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. Then take the whites of five eggs and the yolk of one, beat them with one spoonful of flour, and two of orange-flower water. Take the cream from the fire, mix the eggs in by degrees, and set it over the fire again to thicken. Sweeten it, and pour into cups or glasses for use. Barley Gruel.—Take three ounces of pearl barley, of which make a quart of bar- ley water; if it be not white, shift it once or twice ; put in two ounces of currants clean picked and washed, and when they are plumped, pour out the gruel and let it cool a little; then put in the yolks of three eggs well beaten, half a pint of white ivine, and of new thick cream half a pint, and lemon peel; then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; stir it gently over the fire, until it is thick as cream. Baulky Posset.—Boil a pound of 1* rench barley in three quarts of milk; when boiled enough, put in three quarts of cream, some cinnamon and mace, sweeten it with sugar; let it stand until it is but just warm, then put in a quart of white wine, froth it up; to be eaten either with a spoon, or press out the liquor to drink. Baulky Pudding.*—Take a pound of pearl barley well washed, three quarts of new milk, one quart of cream, and half a pound of double-refined sugar, a grated nutmeg, and some salt; mix them well together, then put them into a deep pan, and bake it; then take it out of the oven, and put into it six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef marrow', and a quarter of a pound of grated bread; mix all well toge- ther, then put it into another pan, bake it again, and it will be excellent. Barley (French) Pudding.—Put to a quart of cream, six eggs well beaten, half the whites, sweeten to your palate, a little orange-flower water, or rose water, and a pound of melted butter; then put in six handsful of French barley that has previ- ously been boiled tender in milk, butter a dish, and put it in. It will take as long baking as a venison pasty. Barley (Pearl) Pudding.—Get a pound of pearl barley, wash it clean, put to it three quarts of new milk, and half a pound of double-refined sugar, a nutmeg grated; then put it into a deep pan, and bake it. Take it out of the oven, beat up six eggs, mix all well together, butter a dish, pour it in, bake it again an hour, and it will be excellent. Barley Soup.—Wash your barley well in warm water, then boil it in good, broth slowly, adding a little butter; give it sub- stance with either crayfish cullis a la Reine, or any other, or without any, if you like it better plain. Barley' Sugar .*■—Clarify two pounds of sugar, and boil it to caramel height, with rather more lemon in it, in a deep copper vessel rvith a lip; pour it in straight lines about an inch thick, on a marble slab pre- viously rubbed with butter. Whilst hot, take each end of the strips of sugar and twist them; when cold, cut them into proper lengths and put them by in glasses. They must be kept in a dry place. Barley' Sugar Drops.—Proceed as for barley sugar. HaY'e ready a large sheet of white paper, covered with a smooth layer of sifted sugar. Pour out the boiled sugar in drops the size of a shilling; when cold, fold them separately in paper, a few drops of the essence of ginger or lemon will improve the flavour. Barley' Syrup.'—Make of a pound of barley three quarts of barley water; strain out the barlev, and put to the water a handful of scabious, tormentil, hyssop, agrimony, horchound, maiden hair, sanicle, betont', borage, bugloss, rosemary, mari- golds, sage, violets, and cowslips, ot each43 BEA BAT a pint, when picked; a pound of sun raisins stoned, half a pound of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of dates stoned; half a pound of green liquorice, caraway, fennel, and aniseed, of each one ounce, hartshorn, ivy, elecampane roots, of eacli an ounce; the roots of fennel, asparagus, couchgrass, po- lipodium, and oak parsley, of each a hand- ful : clean,bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all into the barley water, cover close, and boil gently for twelve hours; then strain and press out the juice, and let it stand twenty-four hours; when clear, add to it rose water and hyssop, half a pint of each, and a pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, a drachm of saffron, three pints of the best honey, and as many pounds of sugar as quarts of liquor, boil tins an hour and a half, keeping it clean scummed, then bottle it, cork it well, and put by for use. Barley Water.—Put a quarter of a pound of pearl barley into two quarts of water, let it boil, skim it very clean, boil half away, and strain it off. Sweeten ac- cording to taste, and put in two glasses of white wine, or some lemon juice. Drink it warm. Barley Wine.—Boil half a pound of Trench barley in three waters, save about three pints of the last water, and mix it with a quart of white wine, half a pint of borage water, as much clary water, a little red rose water, the juice of five or six lemons, three quarters of a pound of sugar, the rind of a lemon. Strain and bottle it up. BASIL Vinegar or Wine.—Fill a wide- mouthed bottle with fresh green leaves of Basil, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days ; if you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let it steep fourteen days longer. BAIH Buns.—Rub together, with the Hand, one pound of fine flour, and half a pound of butter ; beat six eggs, and add tHem to the flour with a table-spoonful of ? ° yeast. Mix them altogether with half a tea-cupful of milk ; set it in a ™ P,lace for au h°ur ; mix in six ounces MS LI „SUgUr’ !UKl a few caraway seeds. nn n\d V**0 bMS with a table-spoon on baking-plate ; throw six or eight ca- raway comfits on each, and bake them in a hot oven about ten minutes. These quantities should make eighteen buns BATTER for Fish, Meat, Fritters', %c. —Prepare it with fine flour, salt, a little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine, and tho whites of eggs beat up; when of a proper thickness it will drop out of the spoon about the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil, or hog’s lard. Batter Pudding.—Take six spoonsful of flour, put them in a stewpan with about a tea-spoonful of salt and half a nutmeg grated ; mix this up with about a pint and a half of new milk; beat up six eggs in a basin and stir them well into the "batter; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it tight with a cloth, and boil it two hours and a half; serve with wine sauce. This puddingmay also be baked, for which three quarters of an hour are sufficient. Currants or stoned raisins may be added. Batter Pudding without Eggs.—Mix six spoonsful of flour with a small portion of a quart of milk ; and when smooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea-spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonsful of grated ginger, and two of tincture of saffron ; stir all to- gether well, and boil it an hour. Fruit may be added or not. BEANS d I’Anglaise.*—Cut, wash, and boil the beans, and then throw them into a cullender. Put a piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the beans on it, and garnish them with chopped parsley boiled and laid round like a cord; heat the dish and serve. Beans boiled.—Boil them in water, with plenty of salt in it, till tender. Boil and chop parsley, put it into melted butter, and serve it as sauce. Another way.—Boil in salt and water with a bunch of savory; drain, and then put them into a stewpan with five spoons- ful of sauce tournee reduced, the yolks of three eggs and a little salt, add a piece of fresh butter, and stir it constantly till of a proper thickness. Bean Bread.—Is made in the same way as almond bread ; leave out the musk or ambergris, if you please. Bean Cakes.—lake an equal quantity of fine sugar and blanched almonds cut in slips lengthwise; slice some preserved orange, lemon, and citron peel; beat the white of an egg to a froth with a little orange-flower water; put as much of it into the sugar as will just wet it; and with the point of a lenifo, build up your almonds, piling it round as high as you can upon a wafer ; put some ambergris also to your sugar, and bake them. Beans d la Creme.—Are done in the same way as d. la Macedoine, omitting the artichokes and wine; but not stewed, thicken with cream and yolks of eggs. Beans d la Macedoine.—Shred someBEA BEA 44 parsley, green onions, mushrooms, and savory, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter rolled in flour; moisten with stock and white w'ine; let it boil over a slow fire: then put in three artichoke bottoms, previously blanched in boiling water, and cut in small squares, with a quartern of young garden beans, the skins ofi, and parboiled; stew them, season with salt and pepper, take out the herbs, and serve the beans with the sauce thick. Beans with Parsnips.—Take two large parsnips, scrape them clean, and boil them in water. When tender take them up, scrape all the soft into a saucepan, add to them four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter the size of a hen’s egg, chop them in a saucepan well ; and when they are quite thick, heap them up in the middle of the dish, and a ragout of beans all round. Beans a la Paulette*—First boil the beans and then put them into a stewpan with some butter, parsley chopped, green onions, and a little savory; shake them over the fire, add a little flour, a lump of sugar, and a little stock. When done put in the 3rolks of three eggs, beat up with a little milk. Beans (Puree of white).—Chop some onions, and fry them lightly in a little butter and flour, and moisten with a spoon- ful or two of broth. Let the onions be thoroughly done ; boil the beans in this for half an hour, season them well without any pepper, and strain them through a tammy. Reduce the puree over a brisk fire, take off the white scum, and before you serve refine it with a bit of fresh butter and two spoonsful of thick cream : garnish with fried bread. This may be madebrowm by frying onions a deep colour, and moistening them with espagnole or veal gravy. Bean Tansey.—Take two quarts of beans, blanch and beat them very fine in a mortar; season with pepper, salt, and mace ; then put in the yolks of six eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter, a pint of cream, half a pint of sack, and sweeten according to our taste. Soak four Naples biscuits in alf a pint of milk, mix them with the other ingredients, half a pint of the juice of spinach, with two or three sprigs of tansey beat with it. Butter a pan and bako it, then turn it on a dish, and stick it all over with candied citron and orange peel cut small. Garnish with Seville orange. Bean Tarts.—Make a puff paste, and put into your pattypans ; then boil green beans, blanch them, and put into the paste a layer of various sweetmeats, but no quinces, strewing alittle loaf sugar between each layer; put in some juice of lemon, also some marrow seasoned with salt, cloves, mace, nutmeg, candied lemon or orange peel; cover the patties, make a small hole at top, and put in a little lemon juice; then bake them, and when taken out of the oven, put in some white wine thickened wdth the yolk of an egg, and a bit of butter. To be eaten hot. Beans (French) en Allumette*—Wash, pick, and blanch your beans ; throw them into cold water; cut off the ends, and finish boiling them with a little brandy; drain, then dip in batter, and fry them of a light colour; whilst hot sprinkle sugar over and glaze them. Beans (French) in Black Butter.*—When the beans are scalded, drain them well; season them with salt and pepper, and hav- ing placed them in your dish, pour some black butter (see Black Butter) over them, and serve. Another way*—Ilavingwell drained the beans, colour some butter in a stewpan, and then toss up your beans in it over a large fire; season, and then place them in a dish for table; add a little vinegar. Beans (French) a la Bretonne*—Cut an onion or two into dice, and put them in a saucepan with some butter, over a [stove ; when they begin to brown add some espagnole, or a pinch of flour; as soon as the onions and flour are sufficiently brown, moisten them with a ladleful of good[gravy, season with salt and whole pepper ; re- duce this sauce, and having boiled the beans put them into it, and simmer all together. Beans (French) en Buisson*—Choose your beans as near of a size as you can ; split, wash, and boil them as usual; when done put them into cold water, and as soon as your beans are cold, drain them in a cullender, then dry them in a napkin ; toss them up with some oil, vinegar, salt, herbs, shred parsley, and shalot. Dress the beans in a croustade, in the same way as Asparagus en Croustade. Beans (French) to keep.*—Gather them as for daily use, and string them ; put them into bottles, if largo, cut them ; shake the bottles that the beans may fall close, and proceed as with Windsor beans. White Beans are done in the same way, but they must not be gathered until the shell has turned yellowish; these must be two hours45 BEA BEA in the bain-marie. One hour is enough for the green. Beans (French) to keep.—Gather them on a dry day, and lay them in the sun. Keep them in a dry place in papers; before you use them, put them in warm water. Beans (French) Lies*—Scaldyourbeans, drain and cool them ; put into a saucepan two ounces of butter and some sweet herbs chopped fine. When the butter is hot, add two spoonsful of flour, a glass of stock, a little salt and pepper; as soon as the sauce boils, put in the beans, and toss them up; just before you serve them thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. You may add lemon juice if you think proper. Beans (French) a la Lionnaise*—Cut some onions in slices, and fry them of a good colour in oil; add to them some french beans previously boiled in salt water with shred parsley, salt, and pepper; toss them up with the onions. Place them in your dish; heat some vinegar in the frying-pan, and pour it over them. Beans (French) a la Maitre d’Hotel.* —Prepare your beans as for boiling; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, shred parsley, and green onions; when the butter is melted, add the French beans, previously boiled, turn them a few times over the fire, shake in some flour, and moisten with a little good stock, well seasoned; boil till the sauce is consumed; then put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up with some milk; and, lastly, add a little vinegar or verjuice. Cullis or veal gravy may be used instead of the eggs. Beans (French) pickled.—Lay them in salt and water for four days, then add a little vinegar, and boil them in the liquor; when they become green, drain, wipe them dry, and put the beans into a jar. Boil some vinegar, ginger, mace, pepper, cloves, and mustard seed, all bruised, and, while hot, pour it on the beans. Cover them close when cold. Beans (French') a la Proven$ale.—Boil your beans in salt and water, drain and lay them on the fire in a stewpan until perfectly dry and hot. Squeeze two small pieces of garlic on the dresser with a wooden spoon, mixed with a little fresh butter; put this and a quarter of a pound ot butter to the beans, and stir it well till properly combined. Mix some parsley shalots, and green onions, chopped fine and a little olive oil. Keep stirring, sea- son it well, and add the juice of a lemon, serve it very hot. Beans (French) Ragout of.—Do not split, but cut your beans in two, fry and drain them : shake over a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, an onion, a lit- tle pounded cloves, cayenne, and salt; some catsup ; boil them together, shak- ing it. 1 ake out the onion, and serve hot. Beans (French) Ragout of, d VAnglaise. —Take a quarter of a peck of beans, string and cut them across, but do not split them, lay them in salt and water a short time, and then dry them thoroughly in a coarse cloth. Fiy them of a nice brown, and having poured off all the fat, put in a quarter of a pint of hot water, stir it and let it boil; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of catsup, one of mushroom pickle, some good gravy, an onion stuck with six cloves, pounded mace, half a nutmeg grated, pepper, and salt; stir all together well, throw in the beans, shake them about a minute or two, take out the onion, and dish the beans with the sauce. Garnish as you please. Beans ( French') Ragout, with Cabbage. . Choose a nice close cabbage, and havin°- cleaned and trimmed it, parboil, and take out great part of the middle, which must be chopped very small with a few boiled French beans, a carrot, and a turnip, also boiled; mash altogether, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and stew them a few minutes with some butter, stirring all the time. In the mean while tie up the cabbage that it may not fall to pieces, and put it into a saucepan with four spoonsful of water, two of wine, one of catsup, the same of mushroom pickle, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little pepper: cover it close and stew it gently - when tender, place it in the table-dish, fill it with the mashed roots, and put round it the ragout of beans as above, and serve it hot. The liquor the cabbage was boiled in may be added. Beans (French) Ragm'it, with Forcemeat. '—Make a ragout of French beans, as di- rected, d VAnglaise; mash two large well- boiled carrots, season them with pepper and salt; mix with them apiece of butter and the yolks of two eggs ; put this into a dish, form it according to your fancy; bake it for a quarter of an hour in a quick oven ; when done, clean your dish, pour the ragout round, and serve. Beans (French) RagoAt, with Parsnips. - Boil two large parsnips till quite ten- der, then scrape them into a saucepan.BEC BEE 46 adding four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter the size of an egg ; mash all together well, and when quite thick, put it into a dish with the ragout of French beans round. Beans (French) Ragout, with Potatoes. —Boil two pounds of potatoes thoroughly, peel, and put them into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it con- stantly; when it becomes so thick that the spoon will hardly move, butter an earthen dish, and put in the potatoes ; flour, and pour melted butter and bread crumbs over; set it in a Dutch oven, and when brown, place it in a dish very carefully, and serve with the ragout of beans round it. Beans (French) Salad* — Boil them simply, drain, and let them cool; put them in a dish, and garnish with parsley, pimpernel, and tarragon. Dress like other salads. Beans (French) with Wine*—Brown some sliced onions in butter; and mix with them some French beans, boiled and drained as usual, add wine, and season them with pepper and salt. Beans (Garden) preserved.*—Shell the beans when-they are about half an inch long, and blanch them, put them into bot- tles with a bunch of savory in each, close * the bottles hermetically, and proceed ac- cording to the directions for preserving asparagus. Leave them in the bain-marie one hour and a half. If you wish to pre- serve them in their coats, take care to put them into bottles the moment they are shelled, as they change colour so quickly. An hour in the bain-marie is sufficient for these. Bean (green) Pudding. — Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach juice to colour it. Boil, in a basin that will just hold it, an hour; pour par- sley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. Beans (White Kidney) with Gravy.*—• Boil and drain your beans; make a light roux, and mix it with some gravy, salt, pepper, and a littlo vinegar; throw the beans into the sauce, and serve hot. BECCAFICOS.*—These birds are roasted, covered with bacon, and toast put under. Baste, while roasting, with lard, and serve with a sprinkling of lemon or verjuice. BECHAMELLE.* —- Ileduce some sauce tournee over a good fire, moisten with consomme, constantly stirring to pre- vent its catching; when of the proper con- sistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, continue stirring; pass it through a hair sieve, and serve. Bkciiamei.t.e Cake.—Boil apint of cream with a few pounded sweet almonds and a little coriander seed, then strain it; use to it about a pound of flour, three eggs, and about as much butter as will make it into a paste, finish like all other paste, and make into cakes, what shape or size you please. Bechameeee, Petits Pates of *—Roll out some puff paste, and line with it some small custard moulds, fill them up with paste, and bake in a hot oven; then roll out some more paste for the lids, and with a paste-cutter, rather larger than your moulds, cut out an equal number of pieces, dorez them, put a little lozenge on the top of each, and bake them. When these are done, take the croustades, trim and dorez them lightly, and having dried them in the oven, fill them with your preparation that has previously been moistened with be- chamelle. Bechamelix Sauce*—Put into a stew- pan some veal and ham cut into dice, carrots, cloves, onions, shalots, parsley, and scallions, all cut small; pepper, grat- ed nutmeg, a little salt and butter, veloute and consomme. Reduce it to half, and then put in some cream: mix it well with your sauce. Boil all together over a quick fire, stirring it constantly; if thick enough, strain it through a sieve. BEEF.*—To secure prime beef or any other butchers’ meet of superior quality, for the larder, it is indispensable to deal with a reputable butcher, as he will neither pur- chase nor kill inferior stock. Certain economical caterers, however, will not con- fine themselves to any particular trades- man. To such it is recommended to bear their wits about them to the shambles, for that shopkeeper that cannot secure a con- stant customer, according to the moral usages of a market is less regardless of his reputation, and there is a general feeling of exultation amongst, the shopkeepers in a market-place, when one of these shamble- hunting providers gets himself outwitted. He must be cunning indeed who is a match for the market-folks. The vigilance of three senses is neces- sary to these perambulating purveyors, the sight, the touch, and the smell; al- though the skilful provider will depend alone upon the eye, as prime meat bears its sterling character on the surface.BEE 47- BEE True well-fed beef may be known at once to the skilful eye, by the texture and colour: the lean will exhibit an open gTain of a deep coral red, and the fat will appear of a healthy, oily smoothness, inclining to white rather than jmllow. The suet firm and white. Yellow fat is generally a sufficient test of inferior beef, though it is a common error to suppose the yellow tinge is a certain sign of the beast having been fed on oil-cake. Oxen fatted for slaughter on corn.and turnips, will, when killed, frequently exhibit yellow fat. Heifer beef of prime quality is scarcely inferior to ox beef: the texture of the lean, however, is of a closer grain, of a paler coral red, and the fat whiter than that of ox beef. Cow beef is also distinguished from that ofthe ox, by the same characteristics, only that in proportion to its greater age, its texture will be still closer, the flesh more coarse to the sight, and harder to the touch. It has been a practice amongst many farmers to feed oxen and calves on oil- cake, though by no means so prevalent now as at that period when, a few years ago, experimental agriculturists sought to im- prove nature, by crossing her in all her operations, until he that had bred the most perfect monster obtained the greatest prize. That much new and useful light has been thrown upon the subject of breed- ing and feeding, is generally acknowled°-- ed, to the credit of many scientific gentle- men, who have devoted their time and lortune to these pursuits; but the artificial means resorted to, to effect these ends if pushed a little further, would have ex- cluded wholesome beef and mutton from the larder. The best beef, and that which is souHit y the most reputable butcher, is that of ie Scotch cattle, which, arriving from Manv°ern\1S ^d,in,En^ pastures. IbU l ,tlRS feed tllls st°ck, but iVor- <wentnaS th.6 Preference* where the far greater number are fed. fro!nlerVlr,'i. usual,y flt for the slaughter trom two to three years old. years old.13 Slatlghtered fr0m tbree to five The Devon and Hereford breed afford E6 ;be°f’ t0 „which the Lincolnshire breed is generally not to be compared, i be Sussex ox is not uncommonly slauo-h- tered at seven years, being previously worked at the plough. * With regard to artificial feeding, whe- on oil-cake or other nutriment, to m- crease the flesh of animals for the slaugh- ter, the result is held to he “that though generally the lean of fat animals is the most tender and palatable, yet that this is not so much the case when the fat is rapidly produced by artificial manage- ment in the feeding. (See the articles Mutton, Pour, &c.) Beef a I’Anglaise*—Take a rump of beef, or any piece you like better of the same size; tie it up neatly with pack- thread, and put it into a stewpan with two or three carrots, a parsnip, three or four onions, a hunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, a bay'^leaf, thyme, and basil; moisten with some stock or water, season, and let the beef Stew gently till half done; then put in a few small cabbages, prepared in tbe fol- lowing manner: Boil a large cabbage, and having- squeezed it perfectly dry, take off the leaves one by one, and put within each leaf a little veal or other forcemeat, sur- rounding it with three or four more of the leaves, in such a manner as to form little cabbages, something larger than an e°-o- - tie these with packthread, and let theinbe stewed with the beef. When the whole is done, clear away the outside loose fat, and put your beef in a dish, cut the little cab- bages in half, and place them round the dish, with the cut side outward. Take a little ofthe stew, strain it through a sieve, and having skimmed off the fat, add a lit- tle cullis to thicken it. Reduce this over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, serv- ing it over the meat and cabbages. Beef Amourettes or Peths in Marinade. Beef amourettes are prepared and dressed exactly the same as beef brains; when they are done, let them drain, then cut them into equal lengths, and fry them in batter. Beef baked.—Let a buttock of beef, which has been in salt about a week, be well washed and put into an earthen pan, with a little water; cover the pan tio-ht with two or three sheets of foolscap paper let it bake four or five hours in a mode- rately heated oven. Beef baked like Red Deer to be eaten cold. • Cut buttock of beef longwise with tbe grain, beat it well with a rollingpin, and broil it; when it is cold, lard it, and mari- nate it in wine vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and two or three bay leaves, for two or three days ; then bake it in rye paste ; let it stand till it is cold; then fill it up wnh butter: let it stand for a fortnight before it is eaten.BEE BEE 48 Beef Bouilli.*—Take a rump of beef, or part of one ; bone and tie it together in a neat form, and put it into a pot, with any odd bits of butchers’ meat you may happen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or mutton; you may add, also, the bones, feet, and necks of poultry or game, the meat of which has been taken for other dishes; place your pot on a moderate fire, not quite full of water, and skim gently. When it has boiled a short time, put in some salt, turnips, six carrots, and six onions, into one of which you should stick three cloves ; add a bunch of leeks. Let the whole boil gently, till the beef is perfectly done; then take it out, and serve it up either with fresh parsley, with a sauce, or with onions or other vegetables, or with haricot sauce. Beef (boiled) to eat cold.—Slice your beef as thin as possible, and also an onion or shalot; then squeeze on it the juice of a lemon or two, and shake all together be- tween two plates ; when it is well beaten, and tastes sharp of the lemon, put it into a deep dish, pick out the onion, and pour oil on it, shred some parsley and strew over it, garnish it with lemon, and serve. Beef boiled with sweet Herbs*—Line the bottom of a dish with butter, sweet herbs chopped, and bread grated fine, put upon this your beef, cut as small as possible, cover it with sweet herbs, pieces of butter, and bread grated fine, let it cook over a gentle fire, put fire also on the lid of your saucepan, when the beef is completely browned, serve it. You may add pickled gherkins or capers. Beef Brains.* — Put the brains into tepid water to cleanse them from the blood, and to take off the thin skin which covers them; take them out and put them into more tepid water; afterwards put them into boiling water to blanch them ; when they have been a few minutes in the boil- ing water take them out, and put them into fresh water ; cook them in a proper quantity of water, with the juice of a lemon, an onion cut in slices, some parsley, and some bay leaves. Beef Brains en Sauce Aurora*—Well wash four beef brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine; when they are done, divide them into six- teen pieces, splitting each half brain through the middle ; dress them on a dish in the form of a crown, and serve with Aurora sauce. Beef Brains au Beurre Noir.*—Well wash your brains to cleanse them from the blood, the skin, and fibres, that are about the brains; then put them into lukewarm water to soak for two hours; after which put them into a stewpan between slices of bacon, with bay leaves, sliced onions, carrots, parsley, a glass of white wine, and some stock; let the whole simmer for half an hour; drain them, and serve with black butter, poured all over, and fried parsley in the middle. Beef Brains au Beurre Noir*—Cook some brains in a marinade, then leave them to drain; serve them on a dish with a sauce au beurre noir, and garnish with fried parsley. Brains may be served with any sauce you please. Beef Brains fried*—Let your brains be properly marinated, then leave them to drain, make a preparation with warm water, a little butter and salt, some flour, a spoonful of oil, and the whites of eggs whipped to snow, mix all together to the consistence of butter, dip your brains into this batter, and then fry them a nice brown colour; when fried let them drain on a dry cloth ; garnish with fried parsley. Beef Brains en Marinade.*—W ell wash your brains, scald them, and put them into a marinade; then make some batter, dip your brains into it, and then fry them, taking care that the fat is not too hot. If it so happens that you wish to fry brains which have been previously dressed, you must cut them in pieces, season them with salt and pepper, then put them into just sufficient vinegar to cover them; after- wards drain them, put them into batter and fry them. Beef Brains en Matelotte.*—Have ready a little Spanish sauce, add to it a glass of red or white wine, some small onions browned in butter, and some mushrooms; then cut your brains into pieces, that have been first boiled, and put them into this preparation, give it a single boil, and then serve. Garnish with artichoke bottoms, crayfish, crusts of bread, and sweetbreads. Beef Brains a la Sauce piquante*—Pre- pare and dress your brains the same as for Brains au Beurre Noir. Drain them, put them on a dish, and pour a sauce piquante all over them. Beef Brains a la Paulette.*—Well wash some brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine, then make boiling hot a reduced German sauce, add- ing some mushrooms, some parsley, and a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, some whole pepper, stirring it wellBEE BEE 49 to keep it from oiling, sauce the brains with this preparation, and serve it very- hot. Beef Brains a la Poulette *—Put some brains into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of butter; sprinkle in a little hour, moisten with a little water, add some small onions, champignons, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; season according to taste, and let it cook over a gentle fire; when ready to serve, thicken, with the yolks of eggs beat up with the juice of a lemon. Beef Brains au Soleil.*— Well wash your brains, blanch them and cook them in a marinade of white wine. Then cut them in halves, put them in a dish, sauce and mash them with a good German sauce, well reduced, and add a little of the mari- nade and a few sweet herbs. When the brains are cold, egg and bread them ; then fry them ; when fried, arrange them on a dish in form of a crown, and serve with clear aspic sauce. Beef a la Braise.—Take two or three libs of beef, cut away only the fleshy part that is next the chine, and take away all the fat, lard it with pretty large lardons of bacon, seasoned with spices, sweet herbs, parsley, young onions, a small quantity of mushrooms, and truffles, shred very small. Having larded the beef, tie it into a neat form with packthread, and put it into a stewpan, having previously lined the bot- tom of the stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, and over them lay slices of lean beef about an inch thick, beaten well and seasoned with spice, sweet herbs, onions, bay leaves, salt, and pepper; then put in your beef, laying the fleshy side down- wards that it may take the better relish of the seasoning ; then season the upper part as you did the lower, and lay over it slices of beef, and over them slices of bacon, as you did at the bottom ; cover the beef with broth, then cover the stewpan and close it well all round ; then put fire co''®r, of your stewpan as well as stewerl l-V-len tlle kee*" ‘s sufficiently then ld takf0-lt UP,’- and let lt drain a little^ then lay it m a dish, and pour the follow- tng ragout upon it. Wilde your beef is stewing make a ra- gout as follows : Take veal sweetbreads livers of capons, mushrooms, truffles, tops of asparagus, and bottoms of artichokes; toss these up with some melted bacon moisten them with good gravy, and thicken it with a cullis made of veal and ham. Beef Broth.—Cut up a leg of beef. crack the bone in two or three parts, wash it cleau, put it into a pot with a gallon of water, skim it well, then put in two or three blades of mace, a little bundle of parsley, and a crust of bread; let it boil till the beef is quite tender, toast some bread, cut it into dice, put them in a tureen; lay in the meat, and pour the soup over it. Beef Cakes (for a Side-dish of dressed. Meat.)—Pound some beef that is under done with a little fat bacon or ham; sea- son with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or garlic ; mix them well; and make it into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide and thick; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. Beef (cold) broiled in Paper.—Soak some slices of cold beef in a marinade made of oil or butter, parsley, shalots, mushrooms, pepper and salt; roll the pieces in paper with this sauce, rub the paper with butter, broil on a slow lire, and serve in the paper. Beef (Collared).—Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it into a dish with salt and salt- petre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, beat it well, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small : a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice; roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoino- it; the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef looks and eats very well. Beef (Collared).—Lay a flank of beef in ham brine a fortnight, dry it in a cloth ; take out the leather and skin, cut it across and across ; season it with spice, two anchovies, a handful of thyme) parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savory) onions, and fennel; strew it on the meat) roll it in a hard collar in a cloth, sew it, tie it at both ends, and put it in a collar pot, with a pint of red wine, cochineal and two quarts of pump water. When cold, take it out of the cloth. Beef Collops.—’lake the fillet from the under part of a rump of beef, cut it into small thin slices, and fry them till three parts done j then add to them slices50 BEE BEE of pickled cucumbers, small mushrooms stewed, blanched oysters, some good seasoned cullis, and heat it gently. Beep Chitterlings.—Take the entrails of beef, carefully clean them, cut them, and marinate them five or six hours in a glass of Madeira, or other white wine, two cloves of garlic, thyme, bay, and basil; ut into fillets some ox palates, or ox tongue and tripe, each first three parts boiled ; also cut into small pieces, cow’s udder and pickled pork; mix the ■whole of these together, and add sliced onions, fried in butter or lard, four yolks of eggs raw, salt, and the best spices ; with these fill the entrails, and boil them half an hour in fat broth, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, three spices of cloves, sliced carrots and parsnips, and let them cool in their liquor. W ipe them well before you broil them. Beef Cullis.—Roast a piece of buttock of beef very brown ; then cut off all the brown part, and whilst hot beat it in a mortar, with some partridge (or fowl), and crusts of bread, then put it into a stewpan with some strong gravy and good broth; season with salt, pepper, cloves, thyme, sweet basil, and a piece of green lemon. Give the whole four or five boilings, then strain it for use. Beef a la Daube.—Take a round, a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with bacon, half roast it, or fry it brown ; put it into a stewpan or a pot that will just bold it; add some gravy, an onion stuck with cloves, half a pint of white wine, a gill of vinegar, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, cloves, mace, and salt; cover it down very close, let it but just simmer till it is tender; take two ox palates, two sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew them all together in some Espagnole, and pour over the beef; have ready some forced meat balls fried, make some long, others round, dip some sippets into batter, fry and cut them three-corner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay the balls round the dish. Beef Dalpettes a l’Italienne*—Take some cold roast fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop up your meat as small as possible, and put into a re- duced boiling Spanish sauce, adding a little crumb of bread, a little] grated Par- mesan cheese, some whole pepper, and two eggs; then leave it to cool. When cold, mould them into large balls; rub them over with egg, and then strew them over with grated Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, fry them in clarified i butter or batter; let them drain, serve ‘ them on a dish, with love-apple sauce over: them. Beef Ears.—Beef ears, well scalded I like calves may be made tender in ail strong braise, lull of strong herbs and spices; they should be afterwards broiled, and served with a cullis or relishing sauce. Beef a. Vicariate.*■—Take a rump of ' | beef, bone it, lard it, season it with salt ; and spices, rub it well with saltpetre. I Put it into a pan with juniper berries, | thyme, basil, garlic, cloves, and onions l cut in slices; cover the pan close, so as to exclude all air. At the end of five or six days, turn your beef, cover the pan again, and let it remain for five or six days longer; then take it out of the pan, put it in a clean cloth and tie it with pack- thread, then put it into a stewpan with some water, carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew for several hours, according to the size of your meat. When it is done, serve it in a tureen, and pour over it the liquor in which it has stewed. You may serve it the next day as a cold dish. Beef (Entre-cute of) broiled*—Take the slice of beef which is obtained between any two of the ribs, and take out the sinewy parts, then cut it to about the thickness of two fingers, beat it flat, and sprinkle it over with salt and pepper. Put it on the gridiron over a clear fire. When it is done, serve it with a sauce a la maitre d’hotel or a snuce piquante. Beef (Fillet of) a VAmiral.—Slice fiva or six onions, and fry them in butter; then take two anchovies, split them into several pieces, a little grated bacon, two yolks of eggs, a little salt, and powder of basil; scald the fillet of beef in boiling water, cut in different slices without separating, and between them put some of the stuffing; tie it up in veal caul and roast it; serve with cullis, broth, and lemon. Beef (Fillet of) and Anchovies.—Soak five or six anchovies in water about two hours, split them, and lay the fillet with them intermixed with bacon; boil it on a slow fire, with a little broth and a glass of white wine, one clove of garlic, two cloves, and a faggot; when done, sift the sauce, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of cream, and a few small capers whole; add a liaison, and serve it upon the fillet.51 BEE BEE Beef (Fillet of) en Chevreu.il *—Take a piece of the Inlet (about a pound), and cut it into four or five parts; after having cut ofi’ the fat and taken out the sinewy- parts, beat and lard your fillets, then put them in a marinade made with vinegar and a little water, sliced onioDS, salt parsley, laurel, and a clove of garlic. When they have marinated for four-and- twenty hours, take them out and squeeze them in a cloth, then put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is melted, fry your fillets in it; when they are sufficiently done and well browned, put them on a cloth to drain; serve them on a dish over pieces of fried bread, and pour over the whole a sauce poivrade, loveapple sauce, or sauce piquante. The sauce must be boiling hot Beef (Fillet of), with Endive,—Prepare the fillet the same as for roasting and larding (receipt the second), and dish it with a ragout of endive under it. Beef (Fillet of) a. I’ Intendante.—Make forcemeat with fowls’ livers, grated bacon, a little butter, parsley, shalots, mushrooms, three yolks of eggs, and fine spices; cut a fillet of beef into two, and flatten it with the cleaver, lard it through with middling lardons, then lay the forced meat upon it, and tie it in a cloth : boil it in broth, a glass of white wine, and a faggot of sweet herbs; when done, serve with it a rugout of sweetbreads, or truffles, &c. ' c ®EEP (Fillet of), with Loveapple ounce.—Prepare your fillet the same as lor roasting and larding (receipt the second), and dish it over loveapple sanpp. xx Bn* (Fillet of), in Madeira.*—Lari good' fillet of beef, the same as for roa ing join the ends together, and place m this manner in a stewpan, with soi muons, carrots, and a bouquet ear some consomme and Madeira; cover with a buttered paper; let it boil for Pu^fo ’ 111(1 aftfwards let it boil slow] WheJ h U,e t0P 0f stewpa V hen it is done strain the broth throu, a eilk sieve, reduce it, and serve it a sauce to your meat. r*tZjFvllet 0J) “ la Polonaise*. lake out the nerves and skin from fillet of beef, and mince the fillet smal as possible, mince some onio equally small (minco a sufficient numb to have exactly the same quantity “unced onions as minced beef) tin nunce some lemon peel (the same as f sauce bigarade); the whole thus pre- pared, melt some butter in a stewpan - when melted, put into it first a layer of onions, then a layer of beef, and so on till your beef is used. Between each layer put butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cinnamon, lemon, and grated bread, i hen put your stewpan into an oven, and let your preparation bake for three hours. After this, work the whole well together whilst in the stewpan; then serve it on a dish in form of a rock, and mash the whole with a reduced Spanish sauce. Beef (Fillet of ), roasted.—This fillet lies only in the inside of the sirloin next to the chine, and is the tenderest part of the ox; spit this on a small spit, but do not run it through the best part of the meat: roast it gently, and baste it with butter- catch gravy in a disli while the beef is roasting; in the mean time make a sauce for it with sweet herbs and parsley, shred fine, the yolks of four eggs, an onion, and some orange peel chopped small; put these into sweet butter, gravy, a spoonful or two of strong broth and vinegar, stew them all together. Put your beef into this sauce, and serve it hot. Beef (Fillet of) roasted and larded* Trim your fillet; lard it fine, and let it soak for twelve hours in a marinade made of good oil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, sweet fierbs, a bay leaf, and an onion cut in slices After it has soaked, take it out, and put it on the spit before a.quick fire. It must not be too much done, but should be taken off the spit with the gravy in it; serve it with a sauce made of its own gravy, a little vine- gar, shalots, salt, and pepper, put into a sauce-boat. Beef (Fillet of), roasted and larded. 1 ake off the superfluous fat, and tie the idlet ready for cooking ; lard it at each ex- tremity, leaving the middle without lard - let it soak some days in oil, seasoned with ouions, parsley, lemon juice, and pepper. 1 russ it in the form of an S, or a round and roast it till it attains a good colour! Imst ^ any sauce }’ou may think Beef, forced Meat, in the form of a Pud- ding. Mince a piece of tender beef, with as much suet, a bit of ham, and small bits ot bacon, two or three eggs, parsley, sha- lots, thyme, laurel, fine spices, and a little salt; add a glass of brandy; mix all toge- ther, and roll it into the form of a large pudding, placing round it thin slices of bacon; over the bacon put white paper, £ 252 BEE BEE and upon the paper a paste made of flour and water; bake it about two hours in the oven, and when done take off the paste and bacon. If you serve it hot, add a re- lishing sauce ; if cold, leave the paste till you are ready to serve, and send it up in a second course. Beef Fricandeau.—Take a nice bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove oi garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close; skim the sauce well, and strain it. Set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. Beef fried.—Cut your beef into steaks, beat it with the back of a shredding knife ; take out all the fat, and then put them into a fryingpan with a sufficient quantity of butter to moisten the pan; set it over a moderate fire, turn your beef often, and as the gravy runs from it, keep pouring it out; then fry the fat by itself, and lay it on the lean, then put a little anchovy, onion, nut- meg, pepper, and claret, in the gravy, and stew it a little. Beef Gobbets.—Take about six pounds of any piece of beef, except the leg or shin, cut it into pieces about the size of a hen s egg, put them into a stewpan, and just cover them with water, put them over the fire, and when the scum rises, skim it clear off, then put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole pepper, tied in a muslin, six heads of celery, cut an inch long and well washed, a carrot or two cut in slices, two turnips cut in dice, a bundle of sweetherbs, some pepper and salt, and a crust of bread; stew it till the meat is tender, and then take out the spice, herbs and bread ; have some crusts of French roll crisped before the fire, put them in a dish, and put the meat, &c. over them. Put in two ounces of Scotch barley or rice when you put iu the herbs. Beef Gobbets, stewed in the French fashion— Take any piece of beef, excepting ‘the leg, cut it in bits as big as pullets’ eggs, both of fat and lean ; stow it in water, skim it clean, and when it has boiled an hour, put in salt, wholo pepper, cloves, mace, carrots, turnips, parsnips, and whole onions ; cover it closo, and let it stew till it is tender, putting in (half an hour before it is finished) parsley, thyme, sweet marjo- ram, spinach, sorrel, and winter savory; add some claret, then dish it on sippets, and serve it hot. Garnish with barberries, grapes, or gooseberries. Beef Gravy.—Cut a piece of the chuck or neck into small pieces, strew some flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into the saucepan, with as much water as will cover it, an onion, a little allspice, a little pepper, and some salt. Cover it close, and when it boils, skim it, then throw in a hard crust of bread, or some raspings, and stew it till the gravy is rich and good ; strain it off, and pour it into the sauce- boat. Beef Gristles, of different fashions.— Cut gristles of beef to what size you please ; scald them in boiling water for a moment, then braze them with a little broth, a glass of white wine, a faggot of parsley, chibbol, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, two cloves, one of garlic, whole pepper, and salt, sliced onions, and roots; when done, take the bottom of the braze, which you strain in a sieve, and skim the fat very- clean off; then add to it a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little scalded chervil, finely chopped, and a lemon squeeze, or a little vinegar; serve this sauce upon the gris- tles. When thus brazed, you may serve upon them what ragout you please ; you may also serve with them cabbage and sausages, first brazed about an hour with the gristles. They may be served as fri- candeaui, with any sort of stewed greens ; or you may make them in the manner of pickled pork, if you will pot some of them. You may preserve them a long while by simmering them some time in fresh hog's lard, then placing them close in an earthen pan, and pouring the lard upon them till the meat is covered ; when it is cold, cover the pot, and keep it in a cool place. Beef Hams.—Take a fat leg of beef, rub it well with saltpetre and salt prunella, beat fine; then take an ounce of bay salt well dried, an ounce of saltpetre, beat fine, a pound of coarse sugar, and a pound of com- mon salt; rub this pickle well in every day for a month, then roll it in bran or saw- dust, and hang it in wood smoke, or bum horse-litter under it for ten days or a fort- night ; hang it in a dry place near the chimney, for a week, it will then keep very well, covered over with bran. Any other piece of beef may be done in the same pickle. Beet (Hashed).—Cutsome of the under- done part of the beef, in slices, with some of the fat, put it into a small stewpan, with JBEE BEE 53 some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water or stock, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, add some flour and butter, and boil it, then put the meat in. Do not let it boil; have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and put the hash into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion or raw shalot. You may add a 6poonful of walnut liquor or catsup. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces, that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Beef Heart.—Wash it carefully; stuff it the same as you would a hare; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Beef Heart, a la Poivrade.—Cut a beef heart into slices, and let it soak some days, as you would a larded fillet of beef; when you wish to dress it, broil it and dish up on a poivrade sauce. Beef (Hung).—Put a rib of beef into a strong- brine of bay salt, saltpetre, and spring water, for nine [days, then hang it up in a chimney where wood or saw-dust is burnt. When a little dry, wash the out- side with blood two or three times to make it look black, and when dry enough, boil it for use. Beef (Hung).—The proper piece is that called the navel-piece: it must be hung up in a cellar until it is a little damp, but not long enough to change ; take it down, and wash it very well in brown sugar and water, dry it with a cloth, cut it into two or three pieces; take half a pound of brown sugar, two pounds of bay salt dried and pounded small, six ounces of saltpetre dried and beat fine, rub it well into the beef, then strew common salt all over it, as much as will make it salt enough ; let it lie together ten days, changing the pieces from the bottom to the top; hang it where it may have the warmth of the fire, but not too near ; when it is dressed, boil it in hay and pump water, until tender : it will keep two or three months; when mouldy, it is dipped m water. y Beef (to keep).—The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck pieces where the shoulder clod is taken off, two from each round of beef; one in the mid- dle, which is called the pope’s eye, the other from the flap; there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and the edge bone.' As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should take out the kernels; and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. Beef Kid7ieys, a la Bourgeoise.*—Take some kidneys, cut them into thin slices, and broil them with a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions, and a clove of garlic, the whole should be shred fine; when they are sufficiently done, take them off the fire (they should not broil too long, or they will become tough) ; add, when you serve them, a few drops of vinegar and a little cullis. Beef kidneys may likewise be served a la braise, with shalot sauce, or sauce piquante. Beef Kidney and Mustard Sauce.—Fry sliced onions in butter to half; cut the kidney into small pieces, and put it to the onions in a stewpan, with pepper and salt, and stew it on a slow fire (the kidney will furnish liquor enough) ; add the mus- tard when ready. Beef kidneys make very good gravy. Beef Kidney Pie.—Cut some kidney* into thin slices, and place them in the bot- tom of your pie-dish, then sweet herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shalots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; continue this till the dish is full, then cover the whole with slices of bacon, then finish your pie; bake it in the oven; when done, take out the bacon, and skim off the fat; make a sauce with a glass of white wine, a tolerable quantity of cullis, and reduce it to the consistence of a good sauce, then squeeze a Seville orange in it. Serve your pie hot. Beef Kidneys, a. VItalienne*—Cut the kidneys into pieces, and toss them in a pan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, shalots, mushroom, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; then thicken with a pinch of flour, and moisten with half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of Spanish sauce; take it off the fire be- fore it boils, add a piece of butter and the juice of a lemon. Serve the kidney hot, and garnish with fried bread. Beef Kidney shredded—Take a kidney, braze it till very tender; shred it, then serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or any other greens you like better. It should be rather highly seasoned.BEE BEE 51 Beet Kidneys with Wine Sauce*—Cut tlie kidneys into tliin slices, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them in butter, with salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions, shred fine. When fried, moisten them with white wine, then add a little stock, and serve. Beef (Minced').*—Take an onion, chop it very fine, and put it into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and a little flour; stir it over the fire till nearly done and well browned; then moisten them with a little stock and half a glass of wine, adding some salt and coarse pepper; let them stew till they are thoroughly done, and very little sauce remains; then put in the cold beef, minced small, and let the whole simmer till it has taken the flavour of the onion. When you serve, add a spoonful of catsup, and a little vinegar. Beef (Minced).—Shred the underdone part fine; with some of the fat; put it into a small stewpan, with some, onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little stock, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sip- pets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. Beef, Minced*—Take some cold roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, and put it into a reduced Spanish sauce made boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toasted bread. Beef, Minced, d la Vinaigrette.*—Mix up some salt, pepper, and a little mustard with a spoonful of vinegar; add some sweet herbs, shalots, &c., pickled cucum- bers, cut very small; then mix the whole together, with two or three spoonsful of oil of olives; put this preparation into a dish, and serve your minced beef over it. Beef a. la Mode.*—Take a rump or piece of beef, bone it, and lard it with tat bacon, then put it into a stewpan with a calf’s foot,.an onion, carrot, a bunch ot sweet herbs, a bay lenf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, salt, and pepper; pour over the whole a little water, let it stew over a slow fire for six hours at least. A clean cloth should be placed over the stew- pan before the lid is put on, which must be carefully closed. When it is done, strain the gravy through a sieve, clear off the fat, and serve. Beef a la Mode.*—Well lard and spice a piece of beef; put it into a stewpan, with some carrots, onions, a calf’s foot, boned, and seasoned according to taste; moisten with stock or white wine (put a cloth round the lid of the stewpan), and let it cook over a gentle fire. It may be served either hot or cold. The gravy should be strained through a sieve. Beef d la Mode.*—Take some of the round of beef, the veiny piece, or small round (what is generally called the mouse buttock), cut it five or six inches thick, cut some pieces of fat bacon into long bits; take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pepper, and nutmeg, with double the quantity of salt, if wanted; mix them together; dip the bacon into some vinegar (garlic vinegar, if agreeable), then into the spice; lard the beef with a larding- pin, very thick and even, put the meat into a pot just big enough to hold it, with a a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint of red wine, some lemon peel; cover it down very close, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to prevent the steam evapo- rating ; when it is half done turn it, and cover it up again; do it over a stove, or a very slow fire: it will take five hours and a half before it is done. Truffles and mo- rels may be added. Beef Olives *—Take some thin rump steaks, cut them what size you please, make forcemeat as for veal, put some of it into each piece of steak, roll them up and skewer them, fry them brown until they are half done, then stew them in gravy an hour, with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Beef Pasty.—Take a small rump or sirloin of beef, bone it, and beat it well with a rollingpin ; to five pounds of your beef take two ounces of sugar, rnb it well into the meat, and let it lie for twenty-four hours; then either wipe it clean or wash it off with a little claret, and season it high with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put it into your pasty, and lay over it a pound of butter; close it up mid bake it. Put the bones in a pan with just as much water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, and when the pasty is drawn, if it wants liquor, put in some of this gravy. Beef d la Parjsanne*—Take a slice of lieef, cut it into little pieces, with some streaked bacon, parsley, scallion chop]>ed small, fine spices, and a laurel leaf; takeBEE BEE 55 a tureen, and first put in a layer of beef, tlien a layer of bacon, and continue first with a layer of beef then of bacon, with a little seasoning, then put in a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonsful of water, close ! the lid of the tureen, and let it stew over some hot ashes; when done, you may either clear oft' the fat or not, according as you think proper, then serve it in the tu- reen. Beef (Pickled).—Take a piece of beef, stick it all over with garlic and cloves, seasou it well with salt, mace, and all- spice, cover the meat with vinegar and turn it every day for a fortnight; as the vinegar wastes, add more; then put it in a stewpot with some vinegar and white wine, cover it down very close, stew it six hours, if a large piece ; add vinegar and white wine to it as it stews, if neces- sary: some onions should be stewed to eat with it. Beef to pickle the Jews’ Way.—Take any piece of beef without bones, or take the bones out, if you intend to keep it above a month; take mace, cloves, nut- meg, and pepper, juniper berries beat fine, and rub the beef well, mix salt and Ja- maica pepper and bay leaves; let it be well seasoned, let it lie in the seasoning a week or ten days, throw in a good deal of garlic and shalots; boil some of the best white wine vinegar, lay your meat in a pan or good vessel for the purpose, with the pickle ; and when the vinegar is quite cold, pour it over; cover it close. If it is for a voyage, cover it with oil, and let the cooper hoop up the barrel very well This is a most excellent way in a hot country, where meat will not keep; then it must be put into the vinegar directly with the seasoning, then you may either roast or stew it, but it is best when stewed; and add a good deal of onion and parsley chopped fine, some white gravy, a little catsup, truffles and morels, a little good gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, or a little oil, in which the meat and onions ought to stew a quarter of an hour before the other ingredients are put in ; then put all m, stir the-whole well, and let it stew till you think it is sufficiently done. This is a good pickle in a hot country, to keep beef or veal that is dressed to eat cold. Beef Pie a la Chaise.1*—Trim a fine W of beef. I ake a pound of lean raw hani, and cut it into lardons six inches in length,' and half an inch in diameter; then cut into lardons of the same size two pounds of fat bacon, rub the lardons of bacon over with one ounce of salt (seasoned with spices) and two spoonsful of very fine chopped sweet herbs. Weigh your beef, and according to its weight to each pound of meat take four drachms of spiced salt, and put this salt apart; then lard your beef all over with the lardons of ham and bacon (putting a lardon of ham between two lardons of bacon), and sticking these lardons at three quarters of an inch dis- tance from each other. When your beef is completely larded, tie it in as neat a round as possible. Line a stewpan with lards of bacon, adding a pound of ham cut into thin slices, then put in your beef, with two carrots, four onions (two of which should be stuck with cloves), par- sley, scallion, bay, thyme, basil, a glass of consomme, a bottle of Madeira, half a glass of brandy, and the spiced salt which you had previously put apart. Cover the whole with buttered paper. After it has boiled for half an hour, place it by the side of the stove and let it simmer for five hours ; then put it into a cool place, and let it cool in its own liquor. When it is cold place your beef upon a dish, pass your liquor through a napkin, then take the. ham and the bacon (which have been boiled with the beef), and mince them with a pound of fillet of veal, adding to this mince twelve drachms of spiced salt, four spoons- ful of finely chopped herbs, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and one spoonful of veloute. Put this farce into a pan, and add an ox palate d Vecarlate cut into little dice. This preparation finished, take some paste and form it into a round, to answer the purpose of a dish ; put half of the farce into the bottom of your paste spreading it all about; then trim your beef, so that it will easily go into the paste with- out spoiling the form of the paste ; put the trimmings of the beef upon the farce which you have put at the bottom of the paste, then place upon it the beef, strew- over it an ounce of spiced salt, and mash the beef with the rest of the farce; and cover the whole with a pound of butter, and some lards of bacon ; tlien cover with paste, or- nament your pie, and put it in an oven, and let it bake for four hours. After it is baked pour into your pie the liquor in which the beef was boiled; this liquor ought not to exceed three glasses full; if it does exceed this quantity it must bo reduced ; then close the pie very carefully with more paste. 1 hese pies are extremely delicious, and very useful in travelling; but theyBEE 56 BEE never grace the Parisian tables, they are usually made to send as presents to the different provinces, to celebrate some grand hunting-parties. Beef Pie a la Chasse,—It is usually made ■with raised pie paste, or else with what is termed ■pate brisee. Beef Pies raised with Truffles.—Bone a small fat rump of beef, daub it with slips of fat bacon, put it into a raised crust with light forcemeat and plenty of whole peel- ed green truffles round it; cover it with the paste, garnish and bake it two hours ; then add a sauce, made with a pint of veal Broth, a gill of lemon pickle, a bay leaf, a few chopped slialots and cayenne pepper; make it of a proper thickness, and strain. Two hours afterwards, cut the top off the pie, skim it free from fat, glaze the rump, and serve it to table ; when cold, serve with aspic jelly. Beef Portugal. — Take meat from a rump of beef, cut it across, flour it, and fry the thin part brown in butter ; stuff the thick end with suet, boiled chestnuts, an anchovy, an onion, and a little pepper ; stew it with good strong broth, and when tender, cut the fried in two, and lay it on each side of the stewed in the dish; strain the gravy, put to it pickled gherkins chopped, and some broiled chestnuts. Thicken with butter and flour, and boil it up two or three times ; season with salt, pour it over the beef, garnish with lemon, and serve it. Beef ( Potted).*—Take some lean beef, rub it with salt and saltpetre, let it lay three or four days, then cut it in pieces, and boil it; then beat it fine, mixing with it some fat; add spice, put it in pots, and pour butter over it. Beef (Potted).—Take two pounds of the fillet out of the inside of a rump of beef, and two pounds of best fat bacon. Cut them small, put them in a marble mortar, add to them a small quantity of parsley, thyme, savory, four slialots, chop- ped fine, some pepper, salt, two spoonsful of essence of ham, a spoonful of mush- room powder, sifted mace, cloves and all- spice, a little of each, two eggs beaten, and a gill of Rhenish wine. Pound all well together till quite fine; then fill small pots with the mixture, cover with pepper, bake it very gently for forty minutes, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Beef ( Potted).—Take three pounds of lean beef, salt it two or three days with half a pound of common salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre; divide it into pieces of a pound each, and put it into an earthen pan just sufficient to contain it; pour in half a pint of water, cover it close with paste, and set it in a very slow oven for four hours: when taken from the oven pour the gravy from it into a basin, shred the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, and pound it tho- ! roughly in a marble mortar with fresh butter, till it becomes a fine paste, season it with black pepper and allspice, or clover pounded, or grated nutmeg ; put it in pots, press it down as close as possible, put a weight on it, and let it stand all night j next day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch thick with clarified but- ter, and tie it over with paper. Beef, Potted like Venison.—Take a whole thin flank of beef, pull off the inward skin, and slash it across and across, par- ticularly in the thickest parts ; lay it for six hours in pump water, take as much hard salt, or saltpetre, as the quantity of an egg, mixed with about two pounds of white salt, and rub it well into the meat; then sprinkle upon it nearly' a pint of wine- vinegar, and then let it lay for three or four days, turning and rubbing it once a day; then rinse it out of the brine with a pint of claret, and season it with cloves, mace, and nutmeg, white and Jamaica pep- per, of each a quarter of an ounce, beaten all together with savory', thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon, shred together, and then well rubbed into the cuts and slashes and the inside ; then bind it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put in the claret, and lay the skins at the top to save it; then bake it. Beef a la Poulette.*—Mince some beef, and put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter; when the butter is melted, add a good pinch of flour; stir the whole well together, and moisten it with a little gravy; season with salt, pepper, and parsley; when ready to serve, thicken it with the y'olks of eggs and a little vinegar. Beef (Pressed).—Salt a piece of brisket .(thin part of the flank), or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre, five days, then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight, or in a cheese press, till perfectly' cold. It eats excel- lently cold, and for sandwiches. Beef (en Miroton).— Roast a tender piece of beef, lay' fat bacon all over it, and roll it in paper; baste it, and when it is roasted cut about two pounds in tbit* slices; lay them in a stewpan, and take six large cucumbers, peel them, chop themBEE BEE 57 I small, lay over them a little pepper and salt, and stew them in butter for about ten minutes, then drain out the butter, and shake some flour over them; toss them up, pour in half a pint of gravy, let them stew till they are thick, and then serve neatly round the dish one piece over another, and so on till all is served. Beef Ragout.—Take a rump of beef, cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it, pour over it a little boiling water, about a pint of small beer; add a carrot or two, an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, Balt, a piece of lemon peel, a hunch of sweet herbs; let it stew an hour, then add some good gravy; when the meat is tender take it out, strain the sauce, thicken it with a little flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little catsup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or the celery may be omitted, and the ragout enriched by adding mushrooms pickled, artichoke bottoms boiled and quar- tered, and hard yolks of eggs. A piece of flank, or any piece that can he cut free from bone, will do instead of the rump. Beef, Red for Slices.—Take a piece of thin flank of beef, and cut off the skin ; then rub it well with a mixture made with two pounds of common salt, two ounces of hay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of moist sugar, pounded in a marble mortar. Put it into an earthen pan, and turn and rub it daily for a week; then take it out of the brine, wipe it, and strew all over it some pounded mace, cloves, pep- per, a little allspice, and a good quantity of chopped parsley, and a few shalots. Then roll it up, bind it round with tape, bruise it till it is tender, press it in the same way as you press a collared pig, and when it is cold cut it in slices and garnish with pickled barberries. Beef (Rib of) a la bonne Femme.*— J run a rib of beef, lard it with pieces of Bpiced bacon; melt a piece of butter about tne size of two eggs, in a stewpan, then put in your beef, season it with salt and pepper ; and place your stewpan over a quick fire turn your beef two or three times, add some broth when it is very hot place your stewpan over a more gentle fire put fire on the top of the stewpan, then lot it simmer for an hour and a half: serve it With its own liquor as a sauce. Beef (Rib of) bruised—Trim a rib of fleet, take out the bone, and lard it witli pieces of bacon seasoned with nutmeg cinnamon, allspice, cloves, salt and pep- per; line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon, slices of veal and beef. Have ready four carrots, five large onions, three of which must be stuck with cloves, two bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley. Tie your beef into a neat form, and put it into the stewpan ; cover it with bacon, then put in the vegetables with two large spoonsful of stock; let the whole boil; after which let it simmer gently for three hours over a moderate fire; then let it drain, and untie your beef; pass a little of the liquor through a silk sieve, clear it from the fat, reduce it, and serve it over the beef. The beef must be glazed. Beef, (Ribs) with Spinach or Endive*— Take out tire bones from some fine ribs of beef, then roast your meat, and serve with spinach or endive all over the beef. Beef (Rib of) with Onions, glazed*— Trim and braise a rib of beef; when done, untie it, let it drain, and put it on a dish, surrounded with onions glazed : moisten a Spanish sauce with a little of the liquor the beef was dressed in, clear it well from fat, pass it through a sieve, then serve it with beef. Beef (Rib of) with Malaga Wine*— Prepare your beef the same as for braising (only rather more spicing the pieces of ba- con with which you lard your beef), add- ing half a bottle of Malaga wine and half as much of stock; when your beef is done, strain the liquor through a sieve (having been careful to clear it from fat), and re- duce it to a single glassful, which you should pour over the beef. Be careful that the reduced sauce is not too sharp, and that you do not season your beef with too much salt. Beef (Rib of) a la Rocambole*—Pre- pare the beef the same as Rib of Beef braised, only add a little garlic, and half a bottle of white wine; when the beef is done, drain it, and serve with rocamboles (see Rocamboles). The beef must be glazed. Beef, Round of, stewed. — Lard your round with gammon and other bacon, well seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, cinna- mon, coriander seed, and grated nutmeg, onions, parsley, shalots, all well mixed to- gether ; let as much of these as you can be stuffed into the bacon, and lard the buttock both on the top and underneath; then season it again with all your ingredients, and put it into a stewpan to bo marinated a little while with onions, garlic, shalots, parsley, sweet basil, thyme, slices of lemons, verjuice, and a little broth ; let it lie iu these two hours, then put it in a nap-BEE BEE 58 kin witli thin slices of bacon, wrapping it up close so that no fat may enter. Put a plate in the bottom of the pot to keep the napkin anil meat from being- burnt to the bottom, and boil it in the evening against the next day. To season it you may put in about two pounds of leaf fat of a hog’s belly, or beef suet, putting in some white wine, verjuice, salt, long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, slices of lemon, onion, parsley, bay leaves, sweet basil, and whole coriander, anise and fennel; when all these are put into the pot, let it be covered very close, and let the beef be stewed very gently ; when it is sufficiently done, let it cool in its own fat; then make a godiveau, put it into the dish in which the piece of beef is to be dressed, then cover it with the same godiveau, then put it into an oven and let it bake for an hour. Before you serve it to table, prepare a well-sea- soned beef cullis, and make a round hole in the top of the godiveau, and pour in your cullis so that it may penetrate into every part, and then above this squeeze the juice of a lemon. This beef may be served up cold, in thin slices, instead of beef d la Roy ale. Beef d la Royale.—Bone a rump, sir- loin, or brisket, and cut some holes in it at a little distance from each other: fill the holes, one with chopped oysters, ano- ther with fat bacon, and the other with chopped parsley; dip each of these, before the beef is stuffed, into a seasoning made with salt, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, sweet marjoram, and thyme; put a piece of butter into a frying- pan, and when it has done hissing, put in the beef, make it of a fine brown, then put into it some broth made of the bones, with a bay leaf, a pint of red wine, two ancho- vies, and a quarter of a pint of small beer; cover it close and let it stew till it is ten- der ; then take out the beef, skim ofl the fat, strain the gravy; add two ox palates stewed tender and cut iuto pieces, some pickled gherkins, truffles, morels, and a little mushroom powder ; let all these boil together; thicken the sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flower, put in the beet to warm, pour the sauce over it, and servo it up. Beef (Rump of).—Tho rump is es- teemed, in most parts, the best piece in the whole ox; it makes excellent soups, and graces the table as a middle dish. It is excellent boiled and served up plain ; or, when cleansed of its fat, it may be served with a sauce made of cullis, parsley, green onions, anchovies, capers, and a little gar- lic, the whole shred fine and well sea- soned. It may also be served boiled and garnished. Beef (liurap of) baked*—Take a rump of beef, what size you please, bone and lard it, season it with salt and fine spices, put it into a stewpan just large enough ta hold it, together with half a pint of white wine, some green onions, mushrooms, and shalots; some lean bacon is an improve- ment. Close the edges of the pan with a strong paste; let it stew in an oven for five or six hours according to the size of your meat, then serve it with its own. sauce strained. You may dress a sirloin in the same way. Beef (Rump of) boiled French fashion. —Parboil your rump of beef for half an hour, take it up, and put it into a deep dish; cut gashes in the side of your meat, that the gravy may come out, put salt and pepper into every gash, then fill up the dish with claret, and put in two or three blades of mace, set it over a chafing-dish of coals, and cover in close and let it stew for an hour and a half, turning the meat several times whilst it is stewing; then take off the fat, put in a handful of capers, five or six sliced onions, half-a-dozen verjuice. Boil all together till the meet is tender, and serve it up to table with brown bread and sippets fried in butter. Beef (Bump of) a la Braise, with Dutch Onions.*—Take a fine rump of beef, bone it, and tie it with a packthread, and put it in a braise with a pint of white wine, some good stock, a slice of veal, a rasher of bacon, a large bunch of herbs, pepper and salt; when it is half done, add about thirty Butch or large red onions. II hen die beef is done, take it out and clear off the fat; put it in a dish with the onions round ; pour over it a good brown sauce. A rump of beef dressed in diis way may be varied with different sauces or ragouts, according to your taste. Beef (Rump oj) a la Cardinale *—> Choose a rump of beef of ten or twelve pounds, and having takeu out die bone, lard it with a pound of bacon, cut it in bits, and season it with salt and spices. 'The upper part of the beef, which is covered with fat, should not be larded. Next, take four ounces of powdered saltpetre and rub into the meat, diat it may look red ; put it in a pan with one ounce ot bruised juniper berries, three bay leaves, a litde thyme and basil, and one pound of coarse salt; let it remain eight days, the panBEE BEE 59 I being well covered. When the meat has taken the salt, wash it in warm water, and put some slices of bacon upon the upper part, or that which is covered with fat, tying a linen cloth over the whole with pack- . thread; then let it stew gently for five hours with a pint and a half of red wine, a quart of water, five or six onions, two cloves of garlic, four or five carrots, two parsnips, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, four or five cloves, parsley, green onions, and the quarter of a nutmeg. When it is done, leave it to cool in its own liquor, and when quite cold, serve. The short ribs of beef may be done in the same manner. Beef (Rump of) in its own Gravy.—Boil a boned rump of beef on a very slow fire, in short liquid, about eight or nine hours, with a faggot of parsley, cbibbol, two laurel leaves, a clove of garlic, two shalots, thyme, four cloves, half a nutmeg, pepper and salt; when it is done, skim off the fat very well, and serve it with the broth after having strained it. Beef Salted. — Beef should be well sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with the salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong: it should he turned every day; and, if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and, when cold, pour it over the meat that has been sprinkled and drained. Beef Salted (for immediate use) .—The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the'pot; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close; put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Beef Sailed, (in the Dutch way).—Take a lean piece of beef, and rub it well with brown sugar (some pour treacle over it) ; let it lie at least two days, turning it very often; then wipe it, and salt it with com- mon salt and saltpetre: beat the saltpetre fine, rub it well in, and turn it every day for fourteen or fifteen days; then roll it very tight in a coarse cloth, and press it down with a large weight; hang it to dry in a chimney, but turn it the bottom up- wards every day; then boil it in pump water: it will cut into shivers like Dutch beef. Beef Salted Red, which is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang to dry.—Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it and let it drain a day, then rub it -with common salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, but only a small portion of the saltpetre; and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder; rub tlie pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen, drain it from the pickle, and let it be smoked at the oven mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s; a few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and, while hot, put it under a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. Beef Sausages.*—-Take two beefsteaks about the size of two hands, and the thick- ness of a finger; beat them well to make them flat, and pare the edges of them; then mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, green onions, mushrooms, two shalots, and some basil leaves, the whole shred fine, and mixed into forcemeat with the yolks of four eggs; spread this forcemeat on the slices of beef, and roll them up in the form of sausages ; tie them tip with packthread, and stew them with a little stock, a glass of wine, some salt, pepper, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip; when they are done, strain the liquor; and, having skimmed off the fat, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce. Take care that the sauce is not too highly flavoured, and serve it over your sausages ; or they may he served with any ragout of vegetables you please. To serve the sausages cold, to make a dish for the second course, reduce the sauce by letting it boil with the sausages till almost all the fat is consumed; then let them stand to cool with what remains of the sauce adhering to them, and servo upon a napkin. Beef (Sirloin of) in Epigram.—Having roasted a sirloin of beef, carefully take up the skin of the meat, which you must cut out and mince in line shreds; but taka caro that you donot cut the sides. Hare a strong brown sauce ready with a few mush- rooms, pepper and salt, and a little lemonBEE 60 BEE juice; put in the mince, lay it inside the beef, and cover the skin over. Serve it up hot with a strong gravy. Beef(small Sirloin of) Ragout *—Braise a hit of sirloin, larded with large lardons in broth, and a pint of white wine : add a faggot of sweet herbs, onions, and roots. When done, take it out, and serve it with a ragout of sweetbreads, of mushrooms, or any other kind of ragout. Beef Skirts.—Beef skirts eat well broiled ; they also make a most excellent pie. Take all the skin off. Beef smoked a la Hambourg*—Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan with juniper berries, thyme, basil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves, and onions cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully, so as to exclude all air : turn your meat every two or three days: at the end of a fortnight take it out, and, after (having washed it in several waters, drain it for four-and-twenty hours ; then wrap it in a clean cloth, and put it in a saucepan and let it stew for seven or eight hours ; take it out and let it drain, and serve it cold the same as a ham. Beef Soup.*—Take a shin or leg of beef, cut it in pieces, with six onions, two carrots, celery, leeks, two turnips, a bundle of sweet herbs, black pepper, and allspice to your taste; put all this, with the beef, into a stewpan, with a little water, over a brisk fire till it has drawn down to a glaze, but not to burn ; then pour over it four quarts of boiling water; let it stew till the meat is tender ; when the beef is tender enough, take out all the best parts and let the rest stew with the herbs until quite a rag, then strain all off, and add some herbs as the former, stewed in a pan by themselves with a little water; the carrots, &c. must be cut about an inch long; the water they are stewed in may be put into the soup ; then let your beef and all be stewed together; but it must not boil quite; and be nicely skimmed : be sure to keep it clear. Beef Soused.—Take either buttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, season with salt and pepper for four (lays, then roll them up as even as you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in water and salt till it be tender, then souse it in water and vinegar, and a little white wine and salt; put it into a hook frame to form it round and upright; then dry it in some smoky place, or in the air. When you wish to use it, cut it out in slices, and servo it with sugar and mustard. Beef, Spring Garden.—Cut a slice ofi 1 lean beef into thin slices like Scotch cullops, lard it thick with bacon, and put it into a pan with salt, pepper, mace, two or three if bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; bake it; then clear out all the gravy, and fill it up with clarified butter. Beef Steaks a la Bourgeoise.—Lard the steaks here and there with large lardons; < put them into the pan with chopped par- 1 sley, shalots, thyme, laurel, salt, whole I pepper, and a glass of white wine; let them ; soak two hours, then simmer them till done. You may serve them either hot or : cold. Beef Steaks broiled.*—Cut your steaks rather thick, beat them well, and marinate them in oil or vinegar with a little fine salt; then broil them on a gridiron over a clear, quick fire; but before you broil your steaks make a preparation with some fresh butter, salt, and parsley chopped fine, mixed together with the juice of a lemon; put this preparation into a dish- ! made very hot, and serve your steaks upon it. You may garnish with fried slices of potatoe, slices of pickled cucumber, and cresses ; some make use of Reading sauce instead of the parsley. Beef Steaks broiled.—The best steaks are cut from the middle of the rump ; let them be cut half an inch thick, then beat with a flatter, season them witli pepper and salt; let the fire be very brisk and clear, the gridiron very clean ; setthe dish before the fire upon a chafing-dish to keep hot; turn the steaks often witli a pair of small tongs made on purpose; when they are done enough, lay them in the dish, and rub a bit of butter over them. Be sure not to season them till they are put upon the gridiron, as it draws the gravy. Beef Steaks broiled, a V Anglaisc*— Prepare your steaks the same as for Steaks saute uu Fin de Madere, then rub them with pepper and salt; dip them in melted butter, and then with bread crumbs; broil them, and serve with a maitre d’hotel. Beef Steaks fried.—Pepper and salt some rump steaks, stew them with some water, a glass of Madeira, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy or two, an onion, a piece of lemon peel, and two orthree cloves ; cover them close ; when tender, take them out, flour them pretty well, fry them, pour oft the flit, strain the liquor that they were stewed in, put it to the steaks, with cat- sup or mushroom powder and liquor.61 BEE BEE oysters and their liquor, and lemon juice; simmer this up ; garnish with pickles. Beef Steak Pie.—Take some fine rump steaks, beat them, then season them with pepper and salt according to taste. Make 3 good crust, lay in your steaks, fill your dish, then pour in as much water as will half fill the dish. Put on the crust, and bake it well. Feef Steak Pie.—Beat your steaks, flour and season with pepper and salt; when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish, with puff paste round the edges ; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. Beef Steak Pie raised.—Take rump steaks, cut the skin from the fat, beat the steaks with achopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, pass them with a bit of fresh butter, pepper, and salt, lemon juice, and shalots chopped, and when half done, put them in a dish till cold. Blanch oysters, strain them, and preserve the liquor; raise a crust, put a layer of steaks at the bottom, some oysters upon it, and so alternately ; cover the pie, ornament, and bake it. When done, put into it a good cullis, with the oyster liquor and some catsup mixed with it, and serve it. Steaks with oysters, may be done the 1 same way, put into a deep dish, and covered i with puff paste. Beef Steak Padding.—Beat your steaks, season them, and roll them with fat between; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in ; cover with a cloth tied close, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. Beef Steak Pudding.—Take flower, chopped suet, some milk, a little salt, and one egg, and mix them well together. Roll out the paste, of half an inch thick, and sheet a basin or bowl with it; then trim the skin from the meat, beat the steaks well with a chopper, cut them into middling- sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, put them mto the basin with blanched oysters and slices of potatoes (or of onion), alternately; cover the top with paste, and tie a cloth over the basin. Boil the pudding (if of a middling size) two hours, and when it is to be served up, put into it a little cullis and catsup. Beef Steak Pudding, baked—Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed tlirougli a cullender; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, and very well seasoned; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. Beef Steaks rolled.—Take three or four large steaks, and flat them with a cleaver. Make a farce with the flesh of a capon, some of a fillet of veal, and some gammon of bacon, both fat and lean ; add to this the fat of a loin of veal, sweetbreads, young onions, parsley, mushrooms, and truffles, the yolks of four eggs with a little cream ; season all these very well with spice and herbs, and pound them, then strew them on your slices of beef, and roll it up very handsomely, that they may be firm and of a good size; then let them stew a good while. When they are sufficiently done, take them up and drain away the fat, then slit them in two and lay them in a dish, the cut side uppermost, and serve them, either with a ragout or cullis. Beef Steak saute au Vin de Madere* •—Cut out the skin and nerves from your steaks, and cut them into escaloppes egales, beat them and trim them into the form of a round; melt some butter in a sautd pan, and lightly fry your steaks in it; when they are done of a nice light colour, arrange them on a dish in form of a crown, drain the butter from the pan, and put the liquor by ; then put a glass of Madeira in, and reduce it with a little veal glaze and a little Spanish sauce, adding a little pimento butter; when your sauce is of a nice dark colour, strain it through a sieve and serve it jwith your steaks. Beef Steaks saute with Olives.*—Prepare your steaks the same as for Steaks saute au Vin de Madere, then fry with a piece of butter or lard ; when done, dress them on a dish in form of a crown, and pour into the middle of the crown a ragout of olives. Beef Steaks, a la Servante —Cut the slices thin ; lay a down of sliced lard, then of steaks, fine herbs, and spices, and so on till you have done; add a glass of brandy, and stop the pot very well with paste to keep the steam in ; let it simmor fivo or six hours, on a very slow fire. They may be served either hot or cold. Beef Stock.—This is made from the legs, shin, and scrags of beef, or any bones that are to spare; chop them into pieces, wash them, and put them in a large pot on the fire, filled half with cold and half with hot water; it must be closely attended to when it begins to boil, in order to take off the scum; then set it on one side of the stove to boil gentlyBEE BEE 62 and put in three or four carrots well scraped and washed, onions, parsley, pepper-ooms, salt, and one dove of gar- lic ; put the cover on, and mind to skim it when wanted. When the meat is done to pieces, run it through the sieve, the same as a consomme. This serves for plain hashes, or to reduce the glaze for ■vegetable soups, &c., if required. Beef Suet and Marrow, how to use.— To use suet and marrow, all the skin and sinews should be picked out very carefully. It is used for most forced meats (and the marrow is used for par- ticular- occasions), and is extremely good to put into braises, being very nourishing. If you wish to use it instead of butter, soak it in lukewarm water, turning and pressing it with your hands to render it eoft, and squeeze out the water. Beef Tansy.—Take seven eggs, leaving out two whites, and a pint of cream, some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, strawberry leaves, shred very small; add A plate of grated bread; mix all well together, and fry them the same as all other tansies are fried, but not too brown. Beef Tea.—Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices; simmer with a pint of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved ; but it has generally only salt. Beef Tendons a VAlleniunde* lake two or three pounds of the breast of beef, and cut it into three or four pieces of equal size; blanch them for a short time in boiling water; take also half a large cabbage, and blanch it for a quarter of an hour; then boil your breast of beef with some stock, a bunch ot parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a little thyme and basil. When it lias boiled an hour, put in the half cabbage, previously cut in three pieces, well squeezed and tied together, <dso four large whole onions - when they are all nearly done, add four sausages, a little salt and coarse pepper; then finish the stewing till there remains very little sauce; strain the meat and vegetables, and wipe off the loose fat with a cloth. Serve the meat in a dish, with the cabbage and onions round it, and the sausages placed upon the meat; strain the remaining sauce through a sieve, and take off tiie fat, then pour it over the meat. Beef Tripe a la Proven f ole*—lake some very thick tripe, scrape mid wash it in several waters; then stew it with a pound of grated bacon, two carrots, two onions (one of which should be stuck with cloves), bay leaves, thyme, garlic, whole pepper, parsley: moisten with a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomme; let your tripe stew for three hours over a slow fire ; then let It cool in the liquor, then heat it again, and let it drain, after which cut it into fillets. You must previously prepare twelve onions, cut in fillets, and fried in oil, with a little gallic and chopped parsley: then boil your tripe. Now it is cut into fillets, with the fried onions, add half the oil in which they were fried, and a little of the liquor in which your tripe was first dressed. Serve the tripe as hot as possible, garnishing it all over with bread, first dipped in oil, salt and pepper, and then dried upon a gridiron. Beef toasted Italian fashion.—Take some steaks, and hack them; then sprinkle them with rose vinegar, and elder vinegar, season them with salt, pepper, and coriander seed; then lay them one upon another in a dish for an hour, and broil them on a gridiron, or toast them before the fire, and serve them in their own gravy, or their own gravy nnd juice of an orange, boiled together. Beef Tripe a la Fricassee.—Let your tripe be very white, cut it into slips, put it into some boiled gravy with a little cream and a bit of butter mixed -with flour; stir it till the butter is melted; add a little white wine, lemon peel grated, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, pickled mushrooms, or lemon juice; shake all together; stew it a little. Beef Tripe a la Milanaise.*—Cut your tripe into fillets, and dress it in the same manner as for beef tripe a la Prtjvencale ; then, instead of finishing with the onions fried in oil, your tripe must be reduced, and then put a layer of it into a deep dish, the bottom of which must be previously lined with croutons, then on the tripe pu t a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, then bread, then trqie, and so on till your dish is filled ; let the whole brown to the bot- tom, and then serve. BEER (to sweeten).—To a kilderkin of beer throw in at the bung a quart of oatmeal, lay the bung on loose for two or three days, then stop it down close, and let it stand a month. Some throw in a piece of chalk the size of a turkey s egg - and when it has done working, stop it close for a month, then tap it.BER 6S BIR BEEST Custards.—Put a pint of beest over the fire, with n little cinnamon and three bay leaves, till boiling hot. Pour it by degrees on a spoonful of flour, and the same of thick cream ready mixed up. Stir all exceedingly well together; sweeten to the palate, and bake it either in tins or cups. BEET Root.*—May be either baked or boiled; it will take from an hour and a half to three hours, according to the size of the root, to cook properly. Beet Root Fricassee*—First boil, and then slice it and put in a stewpan with a little butter, shred parsley, scallions, garlic, flour, vinegar, salt, and pepper; boil a quarter of an hour, and serve with white sauce. Beet Root pickled.—Boil the roots tender, peel, and cut them in what shape you please. Put them into ajar, and pour over them a hot pickle of vinegar, pepper, ginger, and sliced horseraddish. You may add capsicums and cayenne. Beet Root preserved*—The roots should be peeled and cut in thick slices, and placed in a pan under hot ashes for about five or six minutes, before you put them into a brine made of salt and water, and a quart of vinegar. Beet Root stewed.—Boil them tender i with the skin on; slice into a stewpan, with a little broth, some small onions, and a spoonful of vinegar; simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour; take off the skin just before you serve. BENJAMIN (Oil of). Beat six ounces of benjamin into powder, put it into oil of tartar and rose water, of each a pound. Then distil in an alembic, and put it by for use. BENTON Sauce.—Grate or scrape very fine, some horseradish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonsful of vinegar." Serve cold, witli roast beef, hot or cold. Bentos Tea-cakes.—Rub into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and three spoonsful of yeast, and make into a paste with new milk; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. BERGAMOT Drops.—Mix the juice or four or five lemons, and some sifted sugar, with a wooden spoon; add to this twenty drops of essence of bergamot; mix it well in, and having stirred it over the fire three or four minutes flrop it about the size of a sixpence on writing-paper, and let them stand till cold. Bergamot Wafers.—Squeeze six lemons into a basin, nnd mix some sifted sugar, essence of bergamot, and the white of an egg with the juice ; heat them together till very white; if it becomes too thick, add the j uice of another lemon; spread your paste, and diy them as barberry wafers. Bergamot Water.—To the rinds of three bergamots, put a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water; draw off one gallon by the bain-marie, and sweeten with sugar. Bergamot Water.—Take three gills of syrup, the juice of six lemons, and when diluted sufficiently with water, add a tea- spoonful of essence of bergamot. Strain it through a fine sieve for use. Bergamot Water Ice.—Stir together the juice of three lemons, two gills of syrup, half a pint of water and half a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot; strain and freeze it. BETONY, Conserve of.—Take a pound of betony, three pounds of loaf sugar, beat them in a stone mortar; boil the sugar witli two quarts of betony water to the thickness of a syrup, then mix them, together by little and little, over a gentle fire, make it into a conserve, and keep it in glasses. Betony Flower Water.—Take betony flowers, sprinkle them with white wine or ■water, let them infuse for two days, then distil them in a bain-marie. BILBOCJUET Fritters.—Break five eggs into two handsful of flour, work them together with some milk, then put in some salt and work it again ; when well mixed, put in a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, the same of grated lemon peel, and half an ounce of candied citron cut very small: put on a stewpan, rub it over with butter, and put in the paste ; stew it gently over a stove, taking care that it does not stick to the pan. When sufficiently done, lav it in a dish, set on a stewpan with a large quantity of lard; when it is hot, cut out the paste in pieces the size of a finger, cut it across at each end, dip eacli into the lard and fry them, but not too much, as they '"’’H rise too high. Sift sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, sift over more simar, and serve. ° BIRCH Wine.—The season for procur- ing the liquor from the birch-trees is in the beginning of March, while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for when the sap is come forward and the leaves appear, the juice, by boing longBIS BIS 64 digested in the bark, grows thick and coloured, which before was white and clear. The method of procuring the juice is by boring holes in the body of the trees, and putting in fossets, winch are com- monly made of the brandies of elder, the pith being taken out. You may, without hurting the tree, if large, tap it in several places, four or five at a time, and by that means save from a good many trees several gallons every day ; if you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops must be corked close, and rosined or waxed ; however, make use of it as soon as you can. Take the sap and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time : to every gallon of liquor put four pounds of good sugar, the thin peel of a lemon, boil it afterwards half an hour, skimming it very well ; pour it into a clean tub, and when it is almost cold, set it to work with yeast spread upon a toast; let it stand five or six days, stirring it often ; then take such a cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match dipped in brimstone, and throw it into the cask, stop it close till the match is extinguished, turn your wine, lay the bung on light till you find it has done working ; stop it close and keep it three months, then bottle it off. BIRDS Ported, how to preserve when they begin to grow bad.—When birds have come a great way they often smell so bad that they can scarcely be borne from the rank- ness of the butter, by managing them m the following manner they may be made as good as ever. Set a large saucepan of clean water on the fire ; when it boils, take off the butter at the top, and then the fowls out one by one, throw them into that saucepan of water hall a minute, whipe it out, and dry it in a cloth inside and out; continue till they are all done, scald the pot clean; when the birds are quite cold, season them with mace, pepper, and salt, according to taste, put them down close in a pot, and pour clarified butter over them. c BISHOP (Essence of) or Tincture of Allspice.—Steep three ounces (apothecary s weight) of bruised allspice in a quart of brandy, for a fortnight, occasionally shaking it up, then pour oft the clear liquid. Good for gravies, mulled wine, potted meats, &c. &c. BISQUE.—A bisque is a soup m ragout, which is made either of quails, capons, pullets, or pigeons, &c. Bisque.*—Take fifty crayfish and wash them in eight or ten waters; and put them into a stewpan with some salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of butter; over a quick fire; and keep constantly stirring them with a spoon for a quarter of an hour. W hen your crayfish are done, let them drain, then take out the meat and pound it in a mortar ; then put some rice into boiling water, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour, alter which let it drain, and then pound it in the mortar with the meat of the crayfish; when the whole is well pounded, put it in a stewpan with a little stock previously- strained through a sieve; when this puree is done add to it a little more stock, taking care that it is neither too thick nor too clear. After you have prepared your cray- fish pound the shells, and when they are well pounded, add to them some gravy or the butter in which the crayfish were boiled, pass this puree through a tammy, and after you have strained it, put it into a stewpan over a moderate fire ; you must be careful not to let either of your purees boil. When the second pur£e is finished, and you are ready to serve, put soma croutons in a tureen and pour over them some boiling stock, then pour in your first puree, then upon this pour your puree made of the pounded shells, which being of a red colour will give a nice tinge to the whole. Bisque.—Take fifty crayfish, well wash them and pick out the meat; pound it and then put it in a stewpan with six ounces of butter, some salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a piece of the crumb of new bread three times the size of an egg; put the whole on a quick fire, and let them cook tor halt an hour; then strain the whole through a sieve, and when strained put it again into a stewpan over a gentle fire, taking care not to let it boil and that your puree is not too thick ; then serve with bread, the same as in the preceding receipt. Bisque.—Take what fish you please, wash and clean it, then marinate it for an hour in white wine vinegar, a handftil of salt, whole spice, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole onions, and the peel of a lemon grated. Nearly cover the whole of your fish with these ingredients, and when it has marinated in them for an hour, put it with the ingredients into a saucepan, and when it is about half boiled, add soma boiling water to it, this will make the fish very firm. Then fry the remainder of your fish, make a rich sauce with oysters, shrimps, mushrooms, copers, a bunch otBIS 65 BIS sweet kerbs, two anchovies, two onions, stuck with cloves, the yolks of two eggs, I the juice of a lemon, nutmeg grated; and some scraped horseradish; mix all theso together with two pounds of hutter, and let it be very thick; dish your fish, and pour over it the sauce.. Garnish your fried lish with parsley, horseradish and sliced lemon ; serve it hot. Biscuits.— Weigh eight eggs, an equal weight of sugar, and the weight of four in flour; beat up the yolks of five, and put them in an earthen vessel with some rasped lemon peel and the sugar, beat them to- gether for a long time, then add the whites of eleven eggs also well beaten, then mix in the flour by degrees, pour this into paper cases of whatever form and size you please ; strew powder sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. Biscuits.—Lay the rind of a lemon in boiling water, till it be tender; take half a pound of sweet almonds, and blanch them in cold water, and two ounces of gum dragon, which soak in fair water; then pound the almonds, putting in as you pound, the whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and put the gum and the lemon into the almonds, and mix them well together; then beat a pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the almonds, gum, and lemon, and afterwards add two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, and lay them upon white papers, and set them in the oven. Biscuits.—Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, knead till quite smooth, roll very thin and cut into biscuits, prick and bake in a slow oven till dry and crisp. Biscuit Bread.—Dry fine flour and powder sugar, of each half a pound, thoroughly : beat up four very fresh eggs for ten minutes, then add the sugar, beat them ten minutes longer, put the flour and continue beating ten minutes more. Butter your baking-plates and bake pleasT7 °r amS6ed ma-V he added, if you BISCO I TE de Bruxelles.*—Take two quarterns of fine flour, and divide it as in making the brioche,- take rather more than a quarter of the flour to make the leaven, , put in a little more yeast, and keep the | leaven moist; put to the other portion of Hour half an ounce of salt, a little water an ounce of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter and six eggs: wet the paste with cream, work it well five or six times, mix in the leaven, knead it twice more, and then put it aside in a floured cloth to rise. In four hours take it out and divide it into three parts, work each part up and make them into the form of sponge cakes, put them on a large baking-tin, and let them stand for half an hour to rise, dorez them with milk, and bake them; when done, take them from the oven, but do not remove them from the tin. The next day cut each cake into slices, lay them in a gentle oven to dry; when very yellow they are sufficiently clone. These biscottes are generally sent up with coffee cream. Biscuits en Caisses*—Prepare your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, and fill some little round or square cases with it. I hen writh the rollingpin crush some fine sugar, but not to a powder, and strew it over your biscuits, which place on a copper plate, and when the sugar begins to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the mouth of which put a shovel- ful of burning coals to crystallize the sugar; and when that assumes the ap- pearance of little pearls, remove the coals and close the oven. These biscuits will require from twenty to twenty-five minutes baking. Biscuit Cake.-—One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower water, beat the whole thoroughly and bake it for one hour. Biscuits en Capsule.*—Put half a pound of fine sugar into an earthen pan, and pour over it the yolks of twelve eggs; put the whites into a preserving-pan, and whisk them for half an hour; in the mean time the sugar and yolks of eggs must be stirred with a wooden spoon, and pour them on the whites; stir them gently, add six ounces of fine flour and two of powder sugar sifted, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix it all well together, but with great care, lest the snow of the whites should fall. With this fill some small buttered moulds, or paper cases, and bake them in a quick oven to a deep yellow, first sprinkling them with sugar. If they are in moulds, turn them 'out when baked; but they may remain in the paper cases, which need not ho buttered. Biscuits (St. Cloud.').*—Sift two ounces of rice flour through a fine sieve into an earthen pan, with half a pound of powder suoaii the yolks of four eggs, and a little rBIS cc BIS green lemon grated; beat tliem up together for a quarter of an hour: whisk the whites of eio-ht eggs to a froth and mix them with °the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take them from the mould while hot, and ice them in the following manner : Beat up half the white of an egg nnd two spoonsful of powder sugar with a wooden spoon, add occasionally a few drops of lemon juice; when it becomes quite white lay it over the biscuits; and place them in the oven a minute to dry, Biscuits (Prop).—Pound and sift a pound of fine sugar, take the yolks of seven and the whites of ten eggs and beat well separately for an hour. Dry and sift a pound of fine flour, and when cold mix it with the eggs and sugar, beat all together for a quarter of an hour, drop upon paper, sift sugar over, and bake them. Biscuit Drops.—Beat a pound of sugar, the yolks of four, and whites of two eggs, with a little white wine; then put in a pound of flour, and a few seeds, mix all well together. Butter a paper, lay your hatter on in spoonsful, ice them with fine sugar, and set them in a gentle oven. Biscuits (Hard).—Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk ns will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rollingpin, and work it very smooth. Roll it very thin, and cut into biscuits, prick and bake for about six minutes. . . » Biscuits (Iced).—Beat up the whites o eight, and the yolks of six eggs, with a pound of fine powdered sugar, for one hour. Have ready fourteen ounces of well-dried sifted flour; when the oven is ready nnd your plates buttered, mix the flour as quick as possible with the eggs, Sec and lay the biscuits on the plates; you may add a little musk nnd ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. Biscuit Ice Cream.—Break six eggs into a stewpan, and beat them with a wooden spoon; add a pint of cream, the peel of a lemon, two gills of syrup and a little spice ; boil it till it begins to thicken, Stirring constantly; crumble some Naples and ratafia biscuits into it, and pass the whole through a sieve, nnd put it into mould, which place in ice as directed. SBiscuit iced d la Jlomle.*—Make a Savoy biscuit of nine eggs, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and five °“ncf? potatoe flour, with the addition of a little pulverized iris and orange flower ; bake it in an octagon mould, and let it cool. Make an icing with ten ounces of sugar, nnd one and a half whites of eggs ; mix them together with a wooden or silver spoon, putting in a few drops of lemon juice occasionally; when very white, divide it into two equnl parts, to one of which add a little carmine to make it of a delicate rose-colour; with these two icings, glaze alternately each angle of the biscuit very carefully ; keep it thin and even ; smooth it with the blade of a knife. Biscuit d Vltalienne—Bake a biscuit, made like iced biscuit, in a plain, round mould; cut it across, in slices an inch thick; pour on each slice a spoonful of true maraschino, and when they have imbibed this, place them in their proper form, and mask the whole, either with white of egg and sugar, as biscuit with sweetmeats, or with apricot marmalade, on which strew pounded macaroons. Biscuits (Italian 1 la ter).—R hiskup six eo-o-s, and an equal weight of powder sucar, for half an hour. Take six more e°gs and their weight of flour, and mix all together, nnd lay this mixture on paper, in calces the eighth of an inch thick, and about two inches diameter; lay them quite flat, and do not let them touch, llie oven should be hot ; five minutes will bake them. When cold, wet the under side of the paper, and they will then remove easily. ... Biscuits (Jessamine). —The Spanish j essa- mine is the best, but if not to be procured, take English jessamine flowers, clean picked from the stalk ; beat them well in a marble mortar, and put to them the whites of eggs and powdered sugar, and lav sugar under them in a dish, or on papers; cover them with sugar, and bake them in a gentle oven. _ , Biscuits (Judge's). — Break six eggs into a basin, and whisk them well for five minutes, add half a pound of powder sugar, and whisk again for ten minutes longer; put some caraway seeds and half a P°un of dry sifted flour; mix them all together with a wooden spoon. Drop them on paper about the size of a crown piece, and {hick in the middle ; sift sugar over and bake them in a brick oven. I alee them off the paper while hot.. _ , e • Biscuits (hhhgh).-Puthalfaimundof butter into a basin and work “ well with a wooden spoon; break six eggs mid whisk them well, add half a pound of powder sugar, and whisk ten minutesBIS 67 BIS longer, and then mix thorn with the butter; stir in six ounces of currants, and the same of dried flour. When all is well mixed, drop it, the size of a shilling-, on paper, and bake in a quick oven. Take them off while hot. Biscuits (large) to cut in Pieces.*— Break ten eggs, put the whites in one, and the yolks in another vessel; add to the latter, a pound of powder sugar, a little lemon peel, orange flowers, and salt; mix these together well; whip the whites quite firm, and then put to them the yolks, lightly; sift over them three [quarters of a pound of dried flour, stirring all together carefully. Put this preparation into paper- cases, glaze and bake them in a slow oven for an hour. When cold, cut them into such forms as you may think proper, and ice them. You may vary the flavour and colour of these biscuits as you please, by mixing any colouring material with the icing, and by rubbing the fruit which they should be flavoured with, on the sugar, before it is crushed and mix with the egg. Biscuits (light).*—-Take ten eggs, put the yolks of five in a pan with a few Crisped orange flowers, the peel of a green lemon, both shred fine, and three quarters of a pound of fine sugar; beat the whole together till the sugar is dissolved and well mixed with the eggs. Beat the ten whites to a froth, and add to the sugar; stir in lightly, and by degrees, six ounces of flour, put them into buttered moulds, powdering them with fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Biscuits, Manqufy.*—Put into an earthen pan half a pound of powder sugar, three quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of pounded almonds, a little salt, and some orange- flower water, six yolks, and two whole eggs; beat up these ingredients well; whip tiie six whites, and mix them gradually with the above preparation ; make a paper «ase, butter and pour in it your biscuit Paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some almonds into either dice or slips, mix them with some powder sugar and white of • when the biscuit manque is about three ,, done’ dorez and cover it with this mature ; then replace it in the oven ami finish baking. As soon as it is done, • ™ it. out and cut it into whatever forms 3 our fancy may dictate. ^Biscuits, marbled*—Make twenty-four mnw a r°!!n<1 of Powder s»£ar, and three flour in’, ° ?.I10Und of dried and sifted ’ mto a biscuit paste, as directed for Spoon Biscuits; then beat four ounces of dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, and add to it a third of the paste ; when it is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one halt mix a quarter of the biscuit paste, which will tinge that portion a lio-ht chocolate colour. After this, mix together some vegetable red and infusion of saffron to colour half the remaining paste orange • then divide that again, and mix the last quarter -with half the orange colour, thus your paste will be coloured with two shades of chocolate and two of orange. Make two paper cases, each eight inches square and three liio-h, pour into one of these a large spoonful of the chocolate paste, and when it has spread over the bottom of the case, pour in one of the orange-coloured, on which another of the chocolate, and so on, alternately, until the case is half full; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it into a slow oven for three quarters of an hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit paste (both colours) into a pan and stir them together with a spoon till the whole is veined, or clouded with the two colours; pour it into the other case sprinkle it with flour, and bake like the former; when quite cold, cut them into slices about two inches thick, half of which should he broken, and the other half cut iii pieces of an equal size, lay them on a baking-plate, and dry them in the oven. I bese are generally used to make the rocks’ in ornamental pastry, and may be coloured with the usual materials, according to your Biscuits, Marchpane.—Beat a pound of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moisten them with water, then put them and a pound of powder sugar, into a saucepan, over a clear but not fierce charcoal fire stirring constantly, till the paste leaves adhere together ; put it on a floured slab and work it well with your hands for some time, then roll sm'all pieces of it about three inches long and half the thickness of your little finger, join the ends ot each and make them into round rings lay them on a sieve in a dry warm place or two or three days. When wanted, mix some powder sugar, with the whites of eight eggs, and beat them with a wooden spoon in each hand ; add a cup of oraime- flowor water. Put your rings into this icing, and cover them completely; lav thorn on a sheet of paper and bake iii a slow oven until the icing sets and they begin o c lunge colour. Do not remove them trom the paper till cold. •g** ¥ 2BIS Biscuits, Millefruit.—Take preserved orange end lemon peel, a quarter of a pound of each, six ounces of angelica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds; cut all the above ingredients into pieces half an inch long and a quarter wide. Make an icing with whites ot eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; put the almonds, &c. into this, and having paper on your baking-tin, lay the cakes on it, of whatever size you please ; then with a hair pencil touch them here and there with a little cochineal. Bake them, hut not in too hot an oven. . Biscuits, Monkey.—Take the weight ot six eggs in powder sugar, and mix it with the yolks and a little pounded cinnamon ; ■whisk the whites to a firm froth, and Stir them lightly into the yolks : add four whole eggs,"and their weight of dry sifted flour, mix them well together; take this mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about the size of a halfcrown piece on paper, join two together with the spoon, and when your paper is full, sprinkle powder sugar over and bake them ; a few minutes will do them. Remove them from the paper while hot and put the two undersides together. , Biscuits (Muscovy).*—Take green lemon peel, orange-flower marmalade, and apricot marmalade, of each four drachms; four whites of eggs, and three ounces ol powder sugar; whip the whites to a snow, pound the marmalades and lemon peel to a paste, and pass it through a sieve ; then add the eggs and sugar, mixing them well together, put them in paper cases (buttered) and bake them. When sufficiently done, glaze them with powder sugar and white of egg, and decorate them with non- P Biscuits (Naples).*—Put three quarters of a pound of fine flour to a pound of flne sifted sugar ; sift both together three times, then add six eggs, beaten well, and a spoonful of rose water ; when the oven is nearly hot, bake them, but not too Biscuits, Niauffes*—Make some puff paste, roll it out two or three times more than usual, then spread it in two squaro layers, about the thickness of a crown piece, put one of them on a baking-plate ; inix with some cream putissierc, a hand of pistachios pounded, two bitter, and a handful of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, a little green of spinach, powder sugar, orange-flower water, and two eggs, spread this equally over the puff paste C3 BIS for an inch thick; cover it with the other square of paste; dorez and prick it, and mark it in divisions of tlire inches long, by one and a half wide; strew over powder sugar, orange flowers prulinee, and sweet almonds cut in slips; bake them in a moderate oven, and when done divide them according to the marks. Trim and serve them as an entremets. Biscuit, the Nuns.—lake the whites t. twelve eggs, and beat them to a froth; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and beat them with the froth of the whites of eggs, as it rises; then take the yolks, and two pounds of fine sugar, and beat them well together; then mix the almonds with tho sugar and eggs; then add half a pound of flour, with the peel of four lemons grated, and some citron shred small; put the composition in little cake-pans, and bake them in a quick oven, and when they are coloured, turn them on tins to harden the bottoms: but before you set them in the oven again, sift on them some double-refined sugar. Let the pans be buttered, and fill them half way. Biscuit a la Parisienne*—-Make a biscuit as directed for that Iced a la Royale, but bake it in a plain mould of seven inches • diameter ; when cold, cut it about an inch from the edge all round, to the depth of: three inches; take away the top and at great part of the c rumb; then having: prepared the icing (as therein mentioned) - colour it green with spinach juice; mask, the whole surface of your biscuit with this, and place it in the oven a minute to dry. When wanted for table, fill the in- - teriorof the biscuit with fromage bavarois ■ of pistachios, on which place a very white sultane. , . , This kind of biscuit maybe filled with any other fromage bavarois, or a whipped cream, if you like it better. The colour of the icing may also be changed according to 3rour fancy. Biscuit Paste.*—Break a quarter of a hundred of eggs, separate the yolks and whites; to the former put two pounds of pounded and sifted sugar, and add vanilla, or any other aromatic ingredient you please; beat them with a wooden spoon, whisk the whites until pretty turn, and then put them together; mix in a pound and a half of meal by degrees.^ Butter moulds, and put in your paste, sprinkle sugar over, and bake in a cool Biscuits^preserved Fruits, or Sweetmeats.BIS 69 BIS —Take dried preserved fruit, such as apricots, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange-flower marmalade, pound them together, and sift in a sieve; mix the yolks of new laid eggs, and fine powder sugar therewith, till it comes to a paste, but not too liquid; bake upon paper in a moderate oven. Biscuits (Princess Amelia).*—Put the whites of twelve eggs into an earthen pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and add to them eight ounces of double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted ; having mixed them, put in three ounces of flour, and three of powder sugar sifted, the grated rind of one or two lemons and half a coffee-cup of orange-flower water; stir them well with a wooden spoon, but take cgre not to spoil the snow : drop them on paper of a larger size than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to a clear brown in a moderate oven. Take them from the paper while hot. Biscuit Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over three Naples biscuits grated ; cover it close ; when cold add the yolks of four eggs, two whites, nutmeg, a little brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and some sugar. Boil it an hour in a basin. Biscuits, the (Queen's).—Take a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a half of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, and the yolks of eighteen eggs, put in coriander seeds beaten small at discretion; mix these well together, and make them into a soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay this paste on paper, or in crusts about two inches broad, and four inches long-, set them in a moderate oven, and when they begin to turn brown, take them out, and lay them on paper, in a dry place. J Biscuits, Pole de Cliumhre.—Boil some sugar over a brisk charcoal fire to caramel, into this throw blanched sweet almonds, stir them with a wooden spoon till covered with sugar, then 1-ay them on a sieve to dry; take care to separate those which stick together. Make an icing with sugar, whites of eggs, and a little orange-flower water; put the almonds into this, cover them well with it, and place them on sheets of paper; do not let them touch; put them into a moderate oven. Let them be cold before you remove them from the paper. Biscuits (Savoy).*—Whip twelve whites Dt eggs to a snow; beat the yolks with a pound and a quarter of powder sugar, mix them together, with three quarters of a pound of flour and the grated rind of a lemon, into a paste, rub your mould with melted butter, and then strew over that a little fine sifted flour, mixed with pounded sugar; pour in your preparation and then bake. Biscuits (Savoy), cold.*—Take a little more than half a pound of very fine dry flour, one pound of very dry pounded sugar, and fourteen eggs; rasp the peel of two lemons or oranges on the sugar, which put to the yolks of the eggs, and. work them together with two new wooden spoons. Whip the whites in a separate vessel (with a small pinch of calcined alum to prevent their turning) ; when very firm, take half to mix with the yolks, then mix the whole, and sift the flour over: mix all together gently with a whip. Prepare a mould as above, and put the biscuit in a little at a time, to prevent the bladders at the top; put some ashes on a baking-dish, and put the mould over this in a moderate oven : one hour is sufficient. The same paste may be put into paper cases. Throw crushed sugar over belore baking. Biscuits (Savoy), with Filberts.—Blanch, wash, and dry your filberts, and then burn or roast them till of a fine yellow tinge. When cold, pound and mix them the same as the almonds. Finish the biscuits as before mentioned. Smaller Savoy biscuits are made in a similar manner. If you should not be able to procure potatoe flour, wheat flour may be used, taking care to dry it perfectly; a larger quantity of the latter will then be requisite; two pounds and a quarter will be equal to one and three quarters of the potatoe flour. Biscuits (Savoy), hot.—Break a dozen eggs into a vessel over another containing Water nearly boiling; beat them up in it with a pound of fine sifted sugar. When the eggs are no longer soft, put three quarters of a pound of flour into a silk sieve; mix the flour well with the eggs, by shaking the sieve, then add two spoonsful of orange-flower water. Rub a mould over with butter, powder some sugar over, and pour in your paste; sprinkle more sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Biscuits (Savoy), large.*—Take fifty-six eggs, four pounds of sugar, the zests of four oranges, a pound nud three quartersBIS 70 BIS of potatoo flour sifted; and make your biscuit as follows : Grate the zests of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as soon as it becomes coloured, scrape it off, and grate again until all the zest is done; then dry the sugar perfectly, crush and. sift it. Break your eggs one by one (taking care that all are perfectly fresh) ; put the yolks and whites into separate vessels; mix half your sugar with the former, stirring it in with a spatula until perfectly smooth, then add the remainder, and work it well for twenty minutes. Whip the whites till quite firm, putting in a small quantity of pounded alum ; when suffi- ciently whipped, which may be known by little points rising when the whisk is taken out, mix a little with the yolks; still, however, keeping the whites stirring; then pour the yolks on them very gentty, mixing them together as you pour, with the whisk: sift over the whole a pound of potatoe flour, stirring the mixture all the time; when ready to put into the mould, your paste should be very smooth, and somewhat of the consistence of treacle. Butter the mould, and put in a few spoonsful of your paste at first, to prevent any globules of air appearing on the top when baked; pour in the remainder care- fully. Cover a baking-plate with hot ashes, lay the mould in the midst of them, and place it in a moderate oven; keep it open for an hour, that the biscuit may be watched, and if it takes colour too quickly cover it with paper. In three hours’ time take it from the oven, and if it be of a good colour, and firm, turn it on a baking-tin, tie round it a band of double paper, and replace it in the oven for a quarter of an hour to dry. Biscuits (Savoy), large, with Almonds.* —The ingredients for this biscuit are the same as above, with the addition of four eggs, and half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the almonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in a napkin; pound them with whites of eggs in the usual way, to a fine paste, pass it through a sieve, and then mix it with the additional eggs; add this to the sugar and yolks, and proceed as above. Biscuit (Sea)* a la Fran^aise.—Mix halt a pound of flour with the grated rind of a lemon, four eggs, and a little salt ; stir them with a wooden spoon ; lay this pre- paration in two large cases, dorez and bake themin a tolerable hot oven. When done, take them out of tho cases whilst hot, and cut them in pieces the sizeof a little finger; put them again into the oveu to dry, and colour them. Biscuits (Small).—Make a paste with a quarter of a pound of flour, three spoonsful of fine powder sugar, and the same of mar- malade ; add whites of eggs to work it pretty soft. Make this paste to what shape and size you please. Biscuits (Spice).—Take three pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut in half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace pound- ed, and one pound of powder sugar; mix them altogether on your slab : boil three pounds of Lisbon sugar with some water; make the above ingredients into a paste with this, and roll it to the size of a large rollingpin ; lay it on a sheet of paper, flat it down a little with your hand, keeping it higher in the middle than at the ends ; put it into a very hot oven ; when done, take it out, and while hot, cut it across, in slices an eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. Biscuits (Fine Sponge).—Break twelve eggs, separate the yolks and whites ; to the former put three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, stir them well with a wooden spoon, till it rises in large blad- ders ; whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and then mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, and when incorpora- ted, add ten ounces of line dried and sifted flour. Stir them all together well, and pour the mixture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them from the tins whilst hot. Biscuits (Spoon).*—Break four eggs, put the yolks and whites into separate ba- sins ; add to the former a quarter of a pound of powder sugar ; having grated on it the zest of a lemon, mix these together well with a spatula for ten minutes ; then whip the whites to a froth, and put about half of them to the yolks, and when that is well mixed in, add the rest; stir it very lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper; make them about three inches long, and the breadth of a finger. Glaze them with powder sugar, and place them on baking-tins, and, as the sugar dissolves, and they shine, put the biscuits into a mo- derate oven, which must be kept open for seven or eight minutes, then close it until your biscuits are of a proper colour. M hen cold, detach them from the paper with a thin knife-blade, and lay them by in couples, the glazed sides outwards, till wanted.71 BLA BIS Biscuits (Sweet).*—Take half a pound of fine pounded sugar, and sift it through a tammy. Put the whites of twelve eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks into an earthenware tureen ; whip the whites to a snow, and then carefully pour on it the yolks and sugar; stir them gently ; place your pan over a chafing-dish; continue whipping the whole for a full half-hour, and then, if the drop which falls from the whisk lays a little while without spreading, take i it from the fire, and whisk again till it is i cold ; then add half a pound of fine sifted : flour, stir it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop them on paper, sift sugar over, and I bake them in a warm oven until of a deep j yellow; take them from the papers while i warm ; bake them as soon as possible after they are dropped on paper. Biscuits (Sweetmeut).—Cut some Naples biscuits into pieces about an inch thick, and an inch and a half square, and just crisp them in the oven. Make some icing' with whites of eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; dip one side of the biscuitinto it; cut j some preserved lemon and orange peel and angelica into small pieces ; strew them over the biscuits, and dry the icing in the oven. Biscuit with Sweetmeats*—Prepare your biscuit as a La Parisienne, bake it in a plain round mould, six inches diameter, and five or six high. When quite cold cut it across in slices three quarters of an inch thick ; cover each slice with apricot marmalade, and replace them according to their original form. Have ready the whites of three eggs whipped firm, and mixed with a quarter of a pound of fine powder sugar, inask the biscuit with this, and strew crushed sugar over ; put it in a slow oven to colour it. Serve it cold. k ou may strew over the icing, either pis- tachios cut in dice, currants mixed with sugar, and use any marmalade or jelly you may think proper. Biscuits (Syringe).—Beat a pound of sweet almonds in a very fine paste, moist- ening them with white of egg, and having grated the rinds of six lemons, mix them in two pounds and a half of powder sugar with the almond paste. Take a syringe mould, the bottom of which should be flat, and a star cut out in the centre; half fill your syringe with the paste, and press it through, on to a well-floured slab, cut in pieces about three inches in length, lay them on three sheets of paper to prevent I their burning, and bako them in a brisk ! oven. Biscuits, Toad-in-a-Hole.—Beat a pound of sweet, and an ounce and a half of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, moisten with water, and mix the paste, which should not be too thin, with a pound and a quarter of Lisbon sugar. Lay a sheet of writing paper on your baking-plate, and wafer-paper on that; lay the biscuits about the size of a halfcrown piece ; put a dried cherry in the middle of each ; sift sugar over and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, cut the wafer paper round, but do not take it away. Biscuits (Yarmouth).—Pick and wash half a pound of currants, dry them well, rub a little flour with them, and put them with half a pound of powder sugar, three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half a pound of fresh butter; mix them into a paste with three eggs, roll it out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, cut them into what shapes you jilease. Bake them of a light colourin a hot oven. BLACK Cock—Is dressed in the same way as partridge ; a small one will take thirty, a full grown one forty or fifty mi- nutes to roast. Serve with currant jelly and fried bread crumbs. Gravy and bread sauce. Black Piublings.—Boil a peck of groats for half an hour in water, then drain and put them into a tub or pan ; the hog being killed, save two quarts of the blood, and stir it till quite cold, when the groats may be mixed with it, still stirring ; season it with a large spoonful of salt, cloves, nut- meg, and mace, a quarter of an ounce of each, pounded and dried ; flavour it with winter savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, and pennyroyal, all chopped small. The next day cut the leaf of the hog into dice, cleanse the entrails well, tie them at one end, and begin to fill them, putting in plenty of fat with the other ingredients, fill them about three parts full, tie the other end of the skins, prick and boil them gently for an hour; then take them out, and lay them between clean oat straw. Black Puddings.■—Soak a quart of whole groats for twelve hours in as much boiling hot milk as will swell them, and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop some pennyroyal, savory, and thyme, salt, pepper, and all- spice pounded ; mix them with a quart of blood, half fill the skins with it, and add ns much of the leaf as will make it pretty rich ; boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, lest they burst. When suf- ficiently done, lay them in clean cloths till cold. When to be used, scald them a few minutes and broil them.BLA BLA 72 Black Puddings, Scotch Way.—Chop off tlie head of a goose, save the blood ; stir it till cold, then mix it as above directed with groats, spice, sweet herhs, salt, and beef suet, chopped; take tho skin from the neck, pull out the windpipe and fat, fill your skins, tie them at both ends. BLACKBERRY Wine.—Put full ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a cock in it, pour on as much boiling water as will cover them, and as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the hand till all the berries are broken; cover them, and in about three or four days, when the berries rise to the top, draw off the clear part into another vessel; add to every ten quarts of the liquor one pound of sugar, stir it well in, and let it stand a week or ten days to work. Draw it off through a jelly-bag. Steep four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet wine for twelve hours, then boil it slowly till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the blackberry juice, boil them together, and put altogether ; let it stand a few days, and bottle. BLANC.—A mixture of butter, salt, water, and a slice of lemon ; also as fol- lows : Cut a pound of beef suet, and the same of fat bacon into dice, half a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and pep- per, one or two onions, a hunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf and spice, and well boil it. Blanc.*—Take half a pound of the beef fat, half a pound of bacon, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two carrots, two onions cut in half, a hunch of sweet herbs, a few bay leaves, the juice of a lemon, some salt, whole pepper, and two glasses of stock, and boil the whole for some time, and strain ; it will be then fit for use. Blanc.*—Put one pound of grated bacon, one pound of fat, hall a pound ot butter, two lemons cut in slices, and the white taken out, two hay leaves, two cloves, four -carrots cut into dice, four onions, and a very small quantity of water, into a sauce- pan, and boil tho whole till it is reduced. You must take care to keep stirring to prevent your blanc from catching; when all the moisture is sucked up and tho fat is melted, moisten it with water ; add some clarified salt, let it boil, and skim it ; it is then ready for use. BLANC-MANGE.—To one ounce of picked isinglass, put a little water, boil it till the isinglass is melted, with a bit ot cinnamon; put to it three quarters of a pint of cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six bitter ones blanched and beaten, a bit ot lemon peel, sweeten it, stir it over the fire, i let it boil, strain, and let it cool, squeeze i in the juice of a lemon, put into moulds ; | and garnish to your fancy. Blanc-mange may be coloured green by i adding spinach juice ; red, by a hit of cochineal in brandy, let it stand half an | hour and strain it; yellow, with saffron. Blanc-mange, Diablotins aux Avelines.— Pound and blanch six ounces of filbert nuts, and heat them up with three glasses of scalded cream ; squeeze them through a napkin to extract as much milk as pos- i sible from your almonds ; then gradually pour it upon two large spoonsful of rice flour, and beat it well together, taking great care not to let it be lumpy, adding three ounces of sugar and a very small quantity of salt; put it to turn over a mo- derate fire, and dry it for forty minutes until it becomes quite a stiff thick paste ; then put it on a dish and leave it to cool; when cold, roll it into strips, cut them into small pieces about the size of a filbert, and as you cut them roll them into balls and lightly sprinkle them with flour. The whole being thus prepared, place some of them in a small cullender, and put the cullender into batter, so hot that the dia- blotins will immediately catch (this batter should have been standing on the stone for two hours), and become of a nice dark colour in almost an instant. Then take your cullender out of the batter, put your balls in a napkin, roll them in powdered sugar, and serve on a very hot plate. Fry the remainder of your diablotins, serving them hot and hot. Blanc-mange (Dutch).—Put a pint of cleared calf’s-foot jelly into a stewpan ; mix with it the yolks of six eggs, set it over a fire, and whisk till it begins to boil ; then set the pan in cold water, and stir the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it from curdling, and when it begins to > thicken, fill the moulds. Blanc-mange a la Fvan^aiseP—Blanch | one pound of sweet and a score ot bitter | almonds : drain them on a sieve, and after- wards dry them, by rubbing them in a napkin; pound them in amortar, continually moistening them with half a tea-spoonful of water at a time, to prevent their oiling, t When they are pounded as fine as possible, take them out of the mortar, and put them 1 into a pan; then with a silver spoon beat up youralmondsgradually, with five glasses of filtered water ; after this, spread a nap- kin over an oval dish, and put your almonds upon it; then gather up the corners of your75 BLA BLA napkin, and wring it very tight, to press out all the milk from the almonds; then put into this milk, twelve ounces of crys- tallized sugar, broken into small pieces ; when the sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a napkin ; and then add to it one ounce of clarified isinglass, rather warmer than lukewarm ; and when the whole is well incorporated together, pour it into your mould. Your mould should be pre- viously put into pounded ice ; when your blanc-mange is ready to serve (which will be in two hours after it has been put into the mould), you must take it out of the mould according to the rule prescribed in Violet Jelly. Blanc-mange Fritters.*—Put a quarter of a pound of ground rice into a stewpan, mix with it two eggs, a pint of milk, and two ounces of sugar: let it boil one hour, stirring it frequently ; when well thick- ened, take it off, and add a little grated lemon peel, some dried orange flowers, shred, and a little salt: the whole being well mixed, spread it upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and when cold, cut it into little bits, and make them into balls, with your hands floured ; fry in lard, and when dark-coloured, sugar and serve. Blanc-mange Fritters en Gimblettes.*— Prepare the paste the same as for Blanc- mange Diabloiins aux Avelines. When it is cold, cut it, and form it into your gim- blettes ; cut the pieces out from the middle vith a paste-cutter, nearly two inches in diameter. Then mask these little rounds (which you have cut from the gimblettes) all over with crumb of bread, very finely grated ; this must be done with the great- est care, for fear of spoiling their shape. After haying masked them in bread ciurnbs, dip them in four eggs beaten up ; then drain them, and again mask them in bread crumbs. In the same manner pre- pare the gimblettes, placing them upon plates ; and when you wish to serve, fry them of a nice colour; then sprinkle them all over with sugar, and place your little rounds in the centre of a dish, and arrange your gimblettes round them. Blanc-mange Fritters en Gimblettes, g uzed with Sugar.*—Prepare your gim- exac% the same as in the preceding receipt; and when you wish to serve them, jry them m butter as usual. Then drain them, after which, glaze them in caramel sugar. You may if you like, as you take them out of the fryingpan, strewthem over with pistachio nuts, cut very small, or dried orange flowers. Blanc-mange with Fruit.—Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, and when quite dis- solved, strain it. Let it cool for half an hour, skim, and pour it free from sediment into another pan ; then whisk with it a table-spoonful of cedrat, and half a pound of currant jelly, strawberry, or raspberry jam ; and when it begins to jelly, fill the moulds. Blanc-mange, Hot*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, with eight bitter al- monds ; pound them very fine, and put them into a stewpan ; then put the same quantity of cream with a quarter more into another stewpan, and boil it with some sugar ; and when it boils put in your almonds, mix them well together, and then pass them through a bolting-cloth; a quarter of an hour before you wish to serve it, put your preparation over the fire ; turn it, reduce it, and continue turn- ing, until it is thick and keeps to the spoon ; then pour it into a silver dish, and serve. Blanc-mange, the Italian Way.—Take a cold capon that has been either boiled or roasted, take off the skin, mince the meat, and then pound it in a mortar with blanched almonds ; then add some capon broth and grated bread, salt, rose water, and sugar, previously strained through a sieve; then boil the whole till it is of a good consist- ence ; then either put it into a paste, or stew it. Blanc-mange without either Isinglass or Icing*—Prepare your almonds in the same manner as in the receipt for Blanc-mange a, la Franfaise, but only using half the quantity specified in that receipt, and likewise leaving out the isinglass. Then put into a pan the whites of four eggs, and whip them till they begin to whiten ; then add your blanc-mange, and place your pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip your preparation until the egg is thoroughly mixed with the almonds, and the whole begins to turn to a thick cream; and when it is of a proper consistence, pour into little cups, and serve it either hot or cold. When you wish to serve this entremets in little cups, and of any flavour you please, you must only make use of two thirds ot the quantity of almonds named in the receipt for Blanc-mange a la Fran- $aise. Blanc-mange with preserved Orange.— Fill the orange with blanc-mange ; when cold, stick in long slips of citron, like leaves, pour blanc-mange in a dish, and when cold, place the orange in the mid-liOI BLA 74 die; and garnish with dried or preserved fruit. Blanc-mange maybe put into any shaped moulds, and garnished and coloured ac- cording to fancy. Blanc-mange (Riband).—Put into a mould some white blanc-mange, about two inches deep; and when cold, put alter- nately cleared calves’ feet, red or Dutch blanc-mange. Blanc-mange ere Surprise.*—Take the crumb from a rasped pain a cafd without injuring the crust, which ice with powder sugar and orange-flower water ; place it a minute in the oven or stove to dry; fill the inside with blanc-mange, place it in a dish, and cover it with firm blanc-mange, in the form of a pyramid. BLOND (to clarify) for the Table.— Whip the whites of four eggs in a large pipkin, and put the blond to them; set the whole on the fire in a stewpan; con- tinue to whip till near boiling, when it will have become white. Then put it in the stove, with fire over and under. When quite clear, strain it through a sieve. Blond or Veal Gravy.—Put a few slices of lean ham into a thick stewpan, and lay over it some slices of lean veal; half cover the meat with stock; stew it over a brisk fire, taking care it does not burn ; when the broth is reduced, thrust a knife into the meat, that the gravy may run out, and then stew it more gently till brown, turn- ing the meat frequently. When of a dark red colour, moisten with hot stock, season with shred mushrooms, parsley and green onion ; when it has boiled an hour, skim, and strain it through a tammy for use, to clarify. BOAR, baked.—Season the leg of a wild boar well (having taken out the bone), lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, ginger, and nutmegs pounded, or lay it in soak two days, and parboil it, put it into a good thick crust; then strew over it some pepper, ginger, and nutmeg, all pounded, and some whole cloves, and bay leaves, slices of bacon, and a good quantity of butter; then cover with crust and bake it. BoAn’s Head.—Let it be well singed, and rubbed with a piece of brick, to take off the hair ; then scrape it with a knife, and clean it well: this done, bone it, cut out the two jaw-bones, and cut off the snout; slit it underneath, so that it may stick to the skin on the top, and take away the brain and tongue; then take some salt, and rub it into all parts of the flesh ; put the head together again, and wrap it up, and tie it in a napkin ; then put it into a large saucepan of hot water, with some leaf fat of a hog, two bay leaves, all sorts of sweet herbs, coriander, and ani- seed, salt, nutmeg, and cloves, pounded, rosemary and an onion; when it is half boiled, add to it a quart of wine, and keep it boiling for twelve hours. You may also boil the tongue in the same liquor; when it is ready, let it cool in its own liquor ; when cold, put it on a dish, and serve it cold, either whole or in slices. Boar (ITild) roasted.—Lard it with lar~ dons of bacon, without cutting oft' either head or feet; roast, and eat it with vine- gar and pepper, or orange, salt and pepper. BOOKINGS.—Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea-cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it stand before the fire for about an hour, to rise; then mix four eggs, well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same way. BOILING.—The operation of boiling meat, has been too commonly treated as a department of the culinary art—that re- quired no art at all. Hence, we may pos- sibly trace in the slovenly management of the pot, the well-known adage, that a leg of mutton boiled, is a leg of mutton spaded ; whilst with due deference to good old sayings, which generally have originated in truth and experience, we are to be num- bered among those who think a leg of mutton boiled, one of the most delectable plain dishes that belong to the old English school of unsophisticated cookery. But the joint must be judiciously chosen, suffi- ciently kept, and skilfully cooked—for simple as it may appear, there is no small skill required in the management of the ar- cana of the pot. Hard water is improper for boilingmeat, and where soft water is not to be procured, the cook cannot be expected to do justice to her reputation, even with the greatest attention to her business. So with pulse, a pease pudding is an abomination, if not boiled in soft water. It is now an established point among the best authorities, that the meat should be immersed in the pot upon the fire, whilst the water is cold, that it may become pro- gressively heated with the water, and thereby gradually boiled ; lor by not im- mersing it in the water until hot, as of old, the sudden transition from cold to beat not only rendered the meat dark in complexion, but tough.BOI 75 BOI Cooks should be careful in managing the form of certain meat for the pot, either by skewering or tying, where necessary : for shapeless masses of flesh, of unequal thick- ness, cannot be equally cooked, as the thinner parts must of necessity he overdone, before the thicker portion is equally acted upon by the boiling water. All meats are best cooked, whether by steam or immersion, by being slowly or gently boiled ; consequently the fire must be properly attended to, and a vigilant eye kept upon the state of the pot. , Modern experiments, thanks to the en- lightened few who have applied the science of'chemistry to the improvement of the cu- linary art, have proved that water for all the purposes of this department of cooking, can but boil. That galloping bustle of the pot, and flapping of the cover, which alone satisfied the impatient, over-notable house- wives of the last age, is now proved to have been mere “ Hubble-bubble, Toil and trouble j” to no other end than to save a little time, at an "enormous expense of fuel, and thus converting excellent meat from the larder, into an execrable dish for the table. Hence, many domestic broils, upon unsuccessful boils, in those days when even the potent demonstrations of science were vainly op- posed to the prejudices of the boiling pot. Salted meats above all animal aliments should be slowly boiled. Indeed for these, the pot should be kept in a simmering state, which cannot be managed without vigilance, as it is indispensable that the fire should be attended to; for one act of the poker by an impatient hand, may set the pot into a too violent state of ebullition, vhilst too low a fire, from inattention, may reduce the heat of the water, so as to injure me meat, for too low, as well as too high a degree of heat will render all boiled flesh bard or tough. It is indispensable also that the water should entirely cover the meat; consequently the dimensions of the pot should be suited to the bulk of the joint. Other evil consequences arise from boil- mg too violently ; as, by the force of the steam the cover of the pot is constantly i ted up, and with the escape of the steam thus liberated, the more volatile and sa- voury particles of the meat escape also, °nd the meat is thereby deprived of its fla- vour, and rendered less nutritious. This constant opening and shutting of the lid moreover renders the pot liable to the ad- mission of smoke, and sometimes even of soot, which taints the meat and broth, be- yond endurance. Large joints, as rumps and rounds of beef, hams, &c., where there is suitable convenience, are best boiled in a copper, as it is less difficult to regulate the heat of a copper fire than that of a kitchen range. A discreet cook, will be known by her economy in the management of the fire. The waste of fuel is an evil of magnitude, proportioned to the means of every house- hold, it being an article of great expense in most parts of the kingdom. Boiling .—Meat before boiling should be washed, and it is improved in colour by soaking. For roasting or baking, however, before it is put on the spit or in the oven, it should be wiped and dried. Itis impossible to complete the operation of boiling without due care in skimming the pot. The instant the water approaches boiling heat, the scum which rises to the surface must be cleared off’; and in this early state of the process, from the opera- tion of the heat disengaging the coagulated matter, which thus floats, the skimming must be patiently followed up, or it will attach itself to the meat, and thereby spoil its appearance. The cook must not ne- glect to skim during the whole process, though the coagulum rises less frequently the longer it boils. By strict attention to this important part of the process of boil- ing, the custom of wrapping the meat in a cloth, may be dispensed with. Indeed, the only reason assigned for this, is to preserve its appearance ; whilst, if the pot be carefully skimmed, the meat will b© cooked clean and pure, and come out of tlia vessel in which it is boiled, still more de- licate, white and firm, than when so wrapped up—the flavour too is improved by the absence of the cloth. The learned in the art of boiling recom- mend different periods for the completion of the process, some allowing fifteen mi- nutes to each pound—others twenty, and some even more. All the best authorities, however, as Dr. Kitchiner, Accum, Mrs. Rundell, and others, agree in this, that the longer the boiling, the more perfect the operation. The French cuisinier may claim the honours of a scientific stew, but the English cook against the whole world for a delicate boil. It is of consequence, as before said, to suit the cooking vessel to the joint, for there should be no space for superfluous water. The scientific allowance beingBOU 76 BOU about a pint of water to a pound of meat. It is sufficient that tbe joint be entirely- covered, as tbe richness of tbe juices are best preserved in proportion to the least quantity of water. The liquor, indeed, thus becomes broth, and should be conse- quently preserved for that useful purpose, as by thus slowly boiling, or simmering, it imbibes no inconsiderable portion of sa- voury nutriment. As the water wastes whilst boiling by evaporation, the pot should be replenished, for tire water must constantly cover the meat. A little cold water, too, accelerates the rising of the scum to the surface. When taken from the pot, the meat must be carefully wiped. Some use a clean cloth for this purpose, but a sponge pre- viously dipped in hot water, and wrung dry, is more convenient. This is done by wringing and cleansing the sponge in hot water prepared at hand. Be careful not to let the meat stand, but send it to table with all convenient speed, or it will darken in complexion, and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roast, cannot be served too hot. BOUCHEES de Dames.*—Mix with six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, three ounces of potatoe flour, a little salt, and a pinch of dried orange flower: beat them together well, and having buttered a tin, lay your paste on it, and bake it in a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour ; when done, cut it in pieces, about the size of a crown piece, and glaze them, mask them according to your pleasure, and dry them in the oven. Bouchees (Petites), de Dames*—Take two ounces of spoon-biscuit paste, and lay it on paper, about the size of a halfcrown, cover them with sifted sugar, and put them in a moderate oven as soon as the sugar dissolves; take them out when properly done, and remove them from the paper and let them cool; then mask the unglazed side (that which was next the paper) with apricot marmalade; as you do two, join them together; when all are done, put a quarter of a pound of sugar and the white of an egg into a pan, and stir it about with a silver spoon for ten minutes, adding now and then a little lemon juice to keep it white ; ice the bouciiees de dames all over with this mixture, placo them on paper, and put them just within tbe oven, that they may dry, without changing colour. Bouchees (Pefites), glacees.*—Roll some puff'paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and with a plain round paste- cutter, of two inches diameter, cut out as many cakes as you may require; then with a smaller cutter, take out the middle of i half the number, so as to make rings of i them ; moisten the edges of the former, and lay the rings on them ; wet them also i so as you lay them down, sprinkle them i lightly with powder sugar, and bake them in a brisk oven. These bouchees require great attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to dissolve and colour too quickly; when done, they should be of a reddish tinge. Fill them with sweetmeats, preserves, or tvhipped cream, according to fancy. They may be cut into squares, ovals, lozenges, &c. if you think proper. Bouchees de Monsieur.*—Pound a stick of vanilla with two ounces of powder sugar, and then sift it; mix with it seven addi- tional ounces of dry powder sugar, and half a pound of sifted flour; add to this the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, and work them together till the paste is very smooth and soft. Heat two copper plates, rub them over with wax, and then wipe them; when cold lay the paste with a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, shaped quite round, leave three quarters of an inch space between each ; when the plates are full, put them on stools in an oven, so that they can receive no heat from below, then put a stove with hot coals on the top of the oven, and let them remain in this state for twenty-four hours; then put them for fifteen or twenty minutes into a moderate oven. Take them from the plates whilst hot, and as soon as cold, finish them in the same way as Bouchee de Dames ; glaze them with chocolate a la rose, with pistachios, orange, cedrat, Ac. Ac. They may also be masked with sugar, pis- tachios, currants, Ac. Bouchees (Petites), Meringuees aux Pis- taches.*—Make them the same as above, strew sugar over without wetting the rings, and bake them to a light colour in a moderate oven. Then mix a quarter of a pound of powder sugar with three whites of eggs, well whipped, and mask the bouchees lightly with it, and glaze them with sugar ; having ready a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, blanched, and each cut'acrosssloping ; place these pieces round the edge of the bouciiees like a crown ; and each piece of the pistachios being placed on the cut side, they stand out from the edge of the bouchee: this process being finished, put them in the oven again a few minutes, to colour the egg ; and in the mean time stir up the white ol egg which remains, and make with it halt as many-BRA BOU 77 mbinguees as you have bouchees, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour both sides of them in a slow oven ; and when the bouchees are ready for table, fill them with whipped cream, with pistachios, and cover each with half a meringue. Bouchees (Petites), perlees.* — Your bouchees being made and baked as above, whip the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and mis them with four spoonsful of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, mask your bouchees with it: then take some white of egg, and with the point of a knife, drop them in pearls about the size of a grape stone, round each bouchee, half an inch apart, sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and dry the egg in the oven, taking care they do not lose their whiteness. When cold, place between each pearl a smaller one of red-currant jelly. Fill your bouchees with apricot marmalade, ap- ple jelly, &c.; if, however, the jelly, or whatever else you may use, be of a red colour, your intermediate pearls should be composed of light-coloured preserve, such as apricot marmalade, Ac. These should be pearled a few at a time only. Bouchees (P elites),Pralindes.*—Having prepared the bouchees as usual, dorez and bake them in a moderate oven ; when they are of the proper colour, mask them with whites of eggs mixed with sugar, and al- monds minced very small; replace them in the oven a minute or two, and then strew red, or any other coloured sugar on them, but not so thick as to cover the al- monds entirely. Fill the bouchees as usual. Bouchees (Petites), a la Reine*—The same as above, only the paste must be cut thicker, and before you dorez, let them stand a few minutes. Bake in a brisk oven. BOUCONS.—Take the lean of a fillet of veal, cut it into long and thin slices, and lay them on a table ; place some bits of bacon, such as you use in larding, and as many of raw ham, one fat and one lean, the length of your slices of veal; then strew them all over with shred parsley and chives, and season them with spices and sweet herbs ; then roll the slices of veal, bacon, and ham, up very handsomely, and stew them a la braise,- when they are stewed, drain the fat from them ; put to them a good cullis, and a ragout of mush- rooms, truffles, &c. and serve them hot. BO UILLON de Saute.—Put into a stock- pot six pounds of beef, a fowl, and a knuckle ot veal. Moisten with cold water. Let boil so that the scum rises only by de- grees, skim it well, then throw into it two carrots, two leeks, a head of celery, two onions stuck with three cloves, and three turnips. Let the whole simmer gently four hours. Put in a little salt, and take oft all the fat, and strain very clear. BOUQUET Water.—Take the flowers of white lilies and Spanish jessamine, of each half a pound; orange, jonquil, and pink flowers, of each four ounces ; damask rose leaves, one pound; let all be fresh gathered, and put into an alembic with a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water. Place it in the bain-marie, and draw it off till the leaves begin to rise BOURGUIGNOTTE.—Cut some truf- fles into balls the size of a nutmeg ; take some small round mushrooms, and put about twenty of each into a small stewpan : pour over them a pint of red wine, with a small lump of sugar; reduce the wine to a glaze. Then throw into the stewpan six spoonsful oCespagnole, and two of consomme. Boil the whole for half an hour, taste it, and if well seasoned serve it up. BOUTONS.—Make a good, well sea- soned godiveau; lay this upon broad thin slices of bacon, such as will wrap up your whole bouton ; put to it a good rago&t of veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, truffles, and asparagus tops, dressed with white sauce ; then cover this with another layer of godiveau, and slices of bacon ; then bake it either between two fires, or dress it otherwise ; when it is done, take off the fat, add some lemon juice, and garnish with farced rolls and fricandeaux. You may make boutons of fish, by making the godiveau of carp, tench, eel,'or what fish you please, well minced and sea- soned. BRAISE (to).*—This is a method of dressing meat, poultry, &c. &c. without its undergoing any evaporation. It is done by lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, beef, or veal, upon which placejwhatever you intend to braise, and also add carrots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, pepper, salt, and spice. BRAISING Pan.—A deep, well-tinned copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which must close hermetically, and have a ledge round, so that coals or hot ashes may be placed on the top when necessary. BRANDS Cream. — Boil two dozen blanched sweet almonds, and three bitter, pounded, in a little milk. When cold, add the yolks of five eggs well beaten in a little cream, sweeten and put to it two glasses of the best brandy, and when wellBllA 78 BRA mixed, odd a quart of thin cream; set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into glasses. When cold it will be ready; if you wish it to keep, scald the cream pre- viously. A ratafia drop may be added. Brandy Pudding.—Butter a mould and line it with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then lay thin slices of French roll; next put a layer of ratafias or maca- roons, then the fruit, rolls, and cakes, in succession, until the mould he full, pouring in at times two glosses of brand)'. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites separately, put to them a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon, grated. Pour it into the mould, and when the solid has imbibed it all, place it in a stewpan with water sufficient to come halfway up the mould, cover it with white paper before putting the lid on, and steam it for an hour at least, then serve with brandy sauce. BRAWN ( Mock) .—Take four cowheels, clean and wash them thoroughly, and boil in plenty of water till very tender; then take them out and cut them in long pieces, which put in a stewpan, just cover them with stock and let them stew a little ; have ready chopped a handful of capers, half ns many gherkins, and one glass of vinegar, stir them in with the heels; put all this into a mould, and when cold, take it out. Brawn (Mock).—Boil two pair of neat’s feet very tender, and pick the flesh en- tirely from the bones ; take the belly-piece of pork, bone and roll up the meat of the feet in the pork very tight; then wrap a coarse cloth tightly round it, and tie it with tape. Boil it very tender, and hang it in a cloth till cold ; then put it in some sousing-liquor, and keep it for use. Brawn (Mock).—See Collared Veal; and proceed in the same manner, with a lean salt belly of pork, cut rather broad, instead of a breast of veal, leaving out the fat of bacon. Brawn, to souse.—Take a brawn about three years old, cut off the head close to the roots of the ears, and cut a fine collar off the side bone and hinder legs, an inch deeper in the belly than on the back, bone them ; bind them up equally at both ends, let them lie in water to soak a night and a day, put them into boiling water, keeping them continually skimmed, and alter the first quick boiling, lessen the fire by de- grees ; let them stand over it a whole night, then take them off', put them into deep hoops, and bind them with tape; and when they are cold, put them into a marinade of oatmeal and bran boiled in water; when it is cold, strain it through a sieve ; put in vinegar and salt, and close up the vessel tight, and keep it for use. Brawn (Souse for).—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour, strain, and let it get cold. BREAD.—Ovens should be constructed of a circular form, and not lower from tbe roof than twenty inches, nor higher than two feet. The mouth should not be even an inch wider than is requisite, with an iron door to shut close ; one so formed will require less fuel, and retain the heat much better than an oven of a longer form and higher roof, and, consequently, will bake every thing more completely. Those families who reside in the country, where wood is more easily procured, have the advantage over the London bakers, for al- though necessity has introduced the cus- tom of using sea-coal for baking n great cities, ovens wherein wood alone is used, bake to the greatest perfection, and with more purity. Bread.—Put a quartern of flour into a large basin with two tea-spoonsful of salt, make a hole in the middle, then put in a basin four table-spoonsful of good yeast, stir in it a pint of milk lukewarm, put it in the hole of the flour, stir it just to make it a thin batter, then strew a little flour over the top, then set it on one side of tbe fire, and cover it over; let it stand till next morning, then make it into a dough; add half a pint more of warm milk, knead it for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm place by the fire for one hour and a half; then knead it again, audit is ready either for loaves or bricks; bake them from one hour and a half to two hours, ac- cording to the size. Bread (brown) Ice.—Grate stale brown bread as fine as possible, soak a small pro- portion in cream, for two or three hours, sweeten, and ice it. Bread (brown) Pudding.—Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, the same of currants, and of shred suet, a little nut- meg and sugar, mix with four eggs a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonsful of cream, boil in a cloth or basin three or four hours. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Cut a pennv loaf in thin slices of bread and butter, ns for tea, butter a dish, lay slices79 bue BRE over it, strew currants on them, then lay tlie broad and butter, strew currants, and so on till the dish is full. Beat up four eggs with a pint of milk, a little salt, nutmeg, and sugar, and pour over the pudding. Lay a puff- paste round, and bake it; half an hour will be sufficient' Bread (common) Cake.—Take the quan- tity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lis- bon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm tlie butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. ’ Bake in a cake-tin. Bread (Diet) Cake.—Break nine eggs, separate the yolks and whites, take their weight in sifted sugar. Whisk the whites to a firm froth, add the yolks, well beaten, and then whisk them together; put the sugar and the weight of five eggs of flour and a few caraway seeds. Mix all well together, and bake in a hoop. Bread Cheesecakes.—Slice a large French roll very thin, pour on it some boilin°- cream ; when cold, add six or eight eggs, half a pound of butter melted, some nut- meg, a spoonful of brandy, a little sugar, and half a pound of currants. Put them in puff paste as other cheesecakes. Bread, to serve with Coffee.*■—Whip up the whites of ten eggs to a thick snow; add to them the yolks beaten with eight ounces of powder sugar, place it over a charcoal fire, and whip it for half an hour; then take it from the fire, and whip it again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of sifted flour. Have ready buttered two moulds lined with paper, pour the paste into them, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when done, take them out of the moulds and remove the paper; when cold, cut them in slices about the size of a finger. Place them on a plate of copper, over a charcoal fire, and when one side is brown, turn them and brown the other side.— these, if kept dry, will he good for a long time. ° Bread (rich) to. serve with Co fee.*—. Make your paste as abover but when you have mixed in your flour, add to it the I rmd of two lemons grated ; candiod lemon | and orange peel, of each two ounces chop- > at*1 them in with a wooden spoon, and finish as above. Bread Crumbs fried.—Rub bread that has been baked two days, through an iron sieve or cullender; put thorn into a stew- pan with two ounces of butter; place it over a moderate fire, and stir them with a ooden spoon till of a fine gold colour; spread them on a sieve, and let them stand ten minutes to drain, turning them often. Bread (French).—Lay half a bushel of the best Hertfordshire white flour at one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Mix a pint of good small- beer yeast with three quarts of warm wa- ter ; put it in, and mix it up well till it is tough, put a flannel over it, and let it rise as high as it will, watching carefully that it does not fall. When it is at its height, take six quarts of skimmed milk, blood- warm, the bluer the better, provided it be sweet, and one pound of salt. Be careful not to put any milk with the yeast at first, for that will prevent the yeast from rising, as any greasy substance will have that effect. Then, instead of working it with the hands, as is done with dough for Eng- lish bread, put the ends of your fingers to- gether, and work it over your hands until it is quite weak and ropy, and then cover it over with flannel. Put the fire into the oven, and make it very hot, by which time the dough will be ready. Lap the dough on the dresser, and instead of a common knife, have one made like a clioppino-- knife to cut it with. Then make it up into rolls or bricks at pleasure. The bricks (of the common size) will require an hour and a half to bake, the rolls only half an hour. Draw them out, and either rasp them with a rasp, or chip them with a knife. Some persons break in two ounces of but- ter, when working up with the second liquor. Bread (French).*—Take half a bushel (or six pounds) of flour, put it on the slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put two ounces of yeast; make your dough with warm water, to about the consistence of brioche; work it up well, adding two ounces of salt, dissolved in a little°warm water; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise ; on this part of the operation de- pends the quality of the bread. Having left the dough one or two hours, (accord- ing to the season), knead it again, and leave it as before, for two hours. Iu tlie mean while, heat the oven, divide the dough into eight equal parts, of which lorm as many loaves, into any shape you please; put them into the oven ns quickly ns possible. As soon as they are done, rub the crusts with a little butter, which will givo it a fine yellow colour. Bread (French), or Rolls.*—Take half n bushel or six pounds of sifted flour, knead it into dough, with two quarts ofBRE 80 BRE milk, three quarters of a pound of warm hutter, half a pound of yeast, and two ounces of salt; when the whole is well worked up, cover, and leave it to rise. In two hours’ time, form it into rolls, and lay them on tinned plates. Place them in a slow oven. When they have heen in an hour, put them into a very hot oven for twenty mi- nutes. Rasp them as soon as they are baked. Bread Fritters.*—Boil half a pint of milk till reduced to half, with a little su- gar, salt, half a spoonful of orange-flour water, and a little lemon peel shred fine ; Lave ready some pieces of crumb of bread, cut about the size of halfcrowns, but thicker; put them into the milk to soak a little, then drain, flour, and fry them.— Glaze them with sugar, and pass the sala- mander over them. Bread, Gdteaux*—Grate the crumb of a fresh loaf, throw it into boiling cream, keep stirring it over the fire, and let it boil some time longer ; then add to it a bit of butter, some sugar, and lemon peel, and currants, if you think proper ; butter a [stewpan well, pour the bread, &c. into it, and place it on a stove, with fire on the lid also. When the gdteaux is of a nice colour, turn it on a dish and serve it. Bread, a la Grecque.*—Put six pounds of sifted flour into a large pan, set it in the oven for about an hour, that it may be tolerably warm, then mix with it three ounces of yeast, two ounces of salt, and a sufficient quantity of milk and water to make it into dough (not too stiff). Hav- ing kneaded it well, cover, and set it on the oven or in a stove ; after it has stood three hours, divide it into eight parts, put them into as many buttered tins, place them immediately into a very hot oven, and when nearly done, take them out of the tins and place them on tin plates for a few minutes to colour the crust. Wrap them in flannel. Bread {London).—To make London bread, put a bushel of good flour which has been ground a month or six weeks, in one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm water, and mix it with one quart of good yeast • put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands; let it remain until rt rises as high ns it will go, which will take about an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefully to its ultimate height, and do not suffer it to fall ; then make up the dough with eight quarts more of warm water and one pound of salt; work it well with | your hands, and then cover it over with a sack or other coarse cloth. Put the fire ■ into the oven; heat it thoroughly, and by the time it is hot, the dough will be ready. Next make the dough into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in the loaves. Shut the oven close, and they will be baked in about two hours and a half; then open the oven, and draw the bread. In summer the water need not be more than blood-warm, but in winter it must be a few degrees higher in heat. During a hard frost, however, the water should bo as hot as the hand could bear it, though not sufficiently hot to scald the yeast, as that would spoil the whole batch of bread. Other quantities of bread are made in the same proportion. Bread {Manheim) *—Take six spoons- ful of flour, three of sugar, half an ounce of green anise, and a little salt; make it into a firm paste, with two eggs, and roll it into pieces about a foot long, and rather more than an inch thick ; lay them on but- tered tins, dorez and mark them with the point of a knife, and put them into a hot oven; when done, cut them in pieces for use. Bread Pridding*—-Cut two or three French rolls in slices, and soak them in a pint of cream or good milk; beat up the yolks of six eggs with them, and add sugar, orange-flower water, three pounded maca- roons, and a glass of white wine; tie it up in a basin or buttered cloth, let the water boil when you put in tire pudding, and boil it for half an hour. Serve with wine sauce. Bread (little) Puddings.—Steep the crumb of a penny loaf, grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat up six eggs and mix with it; add two ounces of warmed butter, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all well to- gether, and bake in buttered tea-cups; a quarter of a pound of currants, orange or lemon candied may be added. Bread Sauce.—Cut in slices the crumb of a French roll, to which add a few pep- percorns, one whole onion, a little salt, a little butter, and boiling milk enough to cover it; let it simmer gently by tin'side of the fire till the bread has imbibed the whole of the milk ; then add a little thick cream, take out the onion, and rub the whole through a sieve; make it very hot,BRE BRE 81 siul serve in a sauce-boat, either for game or fowls. Bread Sippets fried.—Cut a slice of bread a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into pieces about two inches square, and shape them to your fancy; make some very clean fat hot in a fryingpan, and fry the bread in it; when of a delicate light brown, take them up with a fish-slice, and drain them, turning them occasion- ally. BREAM, to dress.—After your bream is Scaled and drawn, notch the side of it, dip it in melted butter, and broil it; make a brown sauce with anchovies, capers, chives, and parsley, tossed up in a saucepan with a little butter; then put in a little fish broth, and thicken it with a cullis that is to be poured on the fish; but do not put the anchovies in till you are going- to serve; when it is broiled enough, serve it up with the aforesaid sauce. It may also be served with a white sauce. Bream, to stew.—Scale and well wash the bream, preserve the blood to stew it in, put to it two glasses or more of claret, a little ginger, the pulp of half a pound of prunes boiled, and strained into the stew; salt, vinegar, two anchovies, some roots of horseradish, stamped and strained, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; let there be no more liquor than will just cover the fish, and other ingredients; when it is enough, make a sauce with butter, a little of the bream liquor, beat them up toge- ther, then dish your fish, pour the sauce upon it. Garnish with lemon and bar- berries, and serve it up. BRENTFORD Rolls.—Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonsful of yeast, and about a pint of milk; knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, ?«/ set them before the fire again to rise. When of a proper size, bake them for half an hour. BRE1 TONNE.*—Take twelve large onions, and cut each of them in half; be Particular in taking out the germs; cut diem into small pieces, and brown them over the fire; then put them into a stow- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little bay, garlic, thyme, salt, and pop- per, and let them cook over hot ashes, put ashes on the cover of your stewpan ; when 'ey are sufficiently done, add a little sugar, tittle vinegar, and reduco the whole to a glaze with a little loveapple sauce; add a large spoonful of blanc, then pass it through a bolting-cloth ; afterwards put it into a stewpan with some more blanc, and a quarter of a pound of butter, and let it simmer. Serve with a white haricot. BREWING.—Much indifferent beer is made in private families, even where there is no sparing of materials, for the mere want of system and economy in the ma- nagement. In the first place, attention should be paid to the state of the utensils used in the operation, and all necessary prepa- rations made the day before the act of brewing commences ; on which day, let water be heated in the copper that it may be well cleansed; also cleanse the casks, mash-tub, coolers, &c. When this business is despatched, fill the copper, and prepare all things in readiness for next morning. The allowance of malt for Strong Beer must be ten bushels to the hogsheacf. For Ale, nine bushels to the hogshead. 'The copper for making a hogshead of beer or ale should contain full seventy gal- lons, because the hogshead of beer measure holds sixty-three gallons, and there should be the surplus measure allowed for the hops, and the working them about to ad- vantage when the water boils, to prevent waste. With this copper four boilino-s will afford two hogsheads of strong beer or table ale, and two of table beer. 1 he malt should be ground four or five days before use, and be kept very clean. The necessary ingredients being ready, the water must be made to boil rapidly, which done, the copper fire must then be damped. I he malt having been previously put into the mash-tub (reserving half a bushel) as soon as the steam from the boilino- water begins to subside, the water is poured upon it to wet the malt, so as to render it of a consistence stiff enough to be mashed ; it should then remain covered over for a quarter of an hour, when more water is added and it is mashed as before; let it stand for a few minutes, and then add the whole quantity of water, accordingly as it is intended to have the beer more or less strong. Whilst the water is lading on, the mash must be kept stirring with a pole! Wlion well mashed, run the big end of the mash-oar through the middle of it to give it air, then put the spare half bushel of malt upon the mash ; and cover the tub over with sacks to keep the steam and spirit of the malt in,,and lot it remain two hours; then let it run into the receiver, G82 BRE BRE and mask again for the second wort, in tlie same manner as tlie first, excepting that the water must be cooler, und it must not stand more than half the time. Both these worts are now mixed toge- ther, and the quantity of hops determined upon are added, when the liquor must be put into the copper, which being closely covered, let it boil gently for two hours, then let the liquor into the receiver, and the hops he strained therefrom into the coolers. When cool, the barm or yeast, which should be white and sweet, is added, and the liquor well stirred from the bottom with a wooden bowl, turning it up topsy- turvy in the middle of each tub, which oc- casions the beer to ferment. If, however, it happens that in about two hours the fer- mentation is not favourable, it has heeu checked; in which case, put the mash-oar, &c. across the tubs, and cover them witli sacks to encourage the fermentation ; when the last thing at night, and the first in the morning, should be the stirring them well up again. Be careful that the tubs be not too full to work over in the night. The next morning, skim the greater part of the yeast oft, and prepare to tun it. Let the casks be taken quite clean and warm into the cellars, which promotes the beer s working. It is recommended to fling a gallon or two of boiling water in each, and turn it out again. Examine the cork and vent holes, and when the casks are filled, reserve some spare beer, that as it woiks in the casks you may fill them up in the cellars for the waste. As soon as lull, take two pounds of fine wheat flour, and beat it up smooth with some of the new beer in a •pail, with a wisp, and divide it between the two casks, keeping it well stirred up near the bottom for a quarter ot an hour. The flour thus prepared, gives to beer and ale a fine soft quality, and, while under fermentation, adds to its flavour, its man- tlinff, &c. When this flour is put in the casks, each should be stirred with a long stick for a few minutes ; then put the tin scoop into the upper cork-hole for the beer to work through, and attend to it three or four times a day, particularly the last thing at night, and first in the morning ; and when the fermentation is done working, which is usuallv an opetation of three or four days, clean the outsides ol the casks, and put in the beer, the hops saved in the pail, equally divided into each, stirring them about, which operation fines all beers, and then bung them tight down with a piece of coarse linen cloth under the bung, if com-, pletely done working, but not else. For small, or table beer, there must be a third mashing. Reserve a pailiul of the strong beer to add to the small. Let the water, already heated in the copper, when within a few minutes of boiling, be poured on the malt, keeping it mashed as before ; then add the pail of strong, and cover it | over with sacks as before mentioned, with the masli-oar standing in the middle, and let it remain an hour. Then fill the copper with the liquor, and let it boil very gently for an hour. The same preparation of flour and beer, should in the like propor- tion be added to the table beer. For good substantial strong beer or ale, and of fine' flavour, there should be al- lowed one pound of hops for every bushel of malt. Flops that are good, and entirely free from adulteration, should be of a fine sweet smell, full of ripe seed, of a clear pal® yellow colour, and clammy, which evinces their strength ; such an article ameliorates and preserves all beers. The best hops are those produced in Kent. The great secret of fining all beers, to render them of a clear brilliant colour, is to take out three quarters of a pailful of the hops from the copper, when they have boiled an hour ; for this simple method is superior, and more congenial to beer than all the arts that are practised. If, however, beers remain stubborn, either from bad cellars or weak hops, or from ill-management, then, in order to make beer or ale transparent and fine, isinglass may be used, which may be thus prepared : If for fining a hogshead, take a quarter of a pound of isinglass, and put it into a quart of the liquor drawn from, the cask, and let them gently simmer over a slow fire for half an hour, in a clean vessel. Pour this into a can of the beer, and put it into the cask, stirring it witli a long stick for a quarter of an hour, and six hours after bung the cask close again. It is a bad practice to put raw hops into beer, as they are apt to become musty. Beers are not unfrequently sick and out of condition; when this happens, the}' should again he put into a new ferment- ation : and then balls made of a pound of fine wheat flour, mixed with a sufficient quantity of treacle, will promote their briskness. This composition soltens all beers to the greatest advantage. Bukton Ale.—For making of Burton*.BRE 83 BRE or rich Welsh Ales. In lieu of boiling of that cool, refreshing, and wholesome the wore two hours, let it boil only one hour, but without ceasing for the whole time. Have ready six pounds of treacle, which must be thrown into the copper ; this adds to the strength of the malt, and gives great richness to the flavour of the ale. The liquor must be kept well stirred up the whole time, and particularly from the bottom : but as this is not brewed for keeping, three quarters of a pound of hops to every bushel of malt will be sufficient. Before it is tapped (which may be done in three or four months), fine it as before described with the hops, when it will be found to possess that rich, full flavour for which Burton and Welsh ales are so much esteemed. This has frequently been brewed in the early part of March, and drank in perfection at the latter end of the June following. Indeed, all well brewed ales and table beer, at three and four months old, are ripe and good. Edinburgh Oat Ales—Should be made from the best white, heavy, sweet oat, made into malt the same as barley is. The Scotch oats are preferred, and the ale made thereof, is said to he of a fine soft healing quality, and is of great repute, particularly in England, where it is not common. Though this ale requires a greater quantity of malt, it is brewed at a less price than others, as ten bushels will make a hogshead of fifty-four gallons, rich, soft and delicious, as no table beer is taken from it. From four to six months old it will become fit for use, either in bottles or casks. It must be brewed, ■ hopped, &c. in the same manner as Welsh ales. Some persons who grow their own oats m England, make this ale, with a part of oat malt, and a part barley malt. PonTER.—It is generally held that 1 porter, to be good, must necessarily be i brewed in large quantities; this, however, is a popular error. Excellent porter may bo brewed in private families, and by i proper management, so ordered, that amplo time between each brewing may be allowed lor it to refine for use. Those families, therefore, who have convenient utensils for brewing strong beers and ales, and who are acquainted with the process formakino- them successfully, may also add porter to the cellar stock, and thereby supply their tables with that truly English bever- age, and regale their friends with a tankard liquor, pure, genuine, and free from those pernicious adulterations which are some- times practised by the public brewer and too often by the publican, by whose cheat- ing rapacity the health of his customers is destroyed, and the reputation of the brewer who serves his tap suffers accord- ingly. It is well known that the excise- men are instructed to keep a vigilant eye upon the breweries, to prevent the use of deleterious drugs in the composition of beer, which instructions they more readily obey, as a heavy penalty is attached on detection of such malpractices; whilst the publican, who is commonly the most cul- pable, for his share in the adulteration of beer, is generally allowed to escape detec- tion. It would be well, therefore, that the publican should be liable to an equal penalty with the brewer, as his risk is less, and his profits certain, a very liberal allowance being granted to all retailers of London porter. The brewing of porter is nearly by the same process as the brewing of ale. The mash, however, must be made of a fine, high dried, sweet, full malt (which is cheaper than the pale malt used for brewing the strong beer and ale)); and full, fine, sweet, brown hops. It is not necessary for a porter brewer to give from ten to twenty shillings per hundredweight, for colour or appearance in hops, when in actual value and strength, they may be thirty per cent, inferior for his purposes; such bright and fair hops being only necessary in the brewing of the delicate and superior ales. The hop then selected for the brewing of porter, must be stout, gross, and thick blossomed; rich in condition, tlioutrh it be dull in colour. A species of hop, admirably well adapted for this purpose, is met with in Kent; it is the produce of the plant Humulus Germanicus. Hops of tins description are most proper for the purpose, because time should be given them to mellow; and the peculiar, soft, full, hitter, requisite, will be secured to them if kept. The necessary bitter cannot be extracted from the new hop, unaccompanied by harshness and unpleasantness. Good brewers (those who brew on a large scale) give their hops eight or even twelve months age, and then they work eight or ten pounds of hops per quarter of malt. When the wort and hops aro boiling, a 2BRE 84 BRE have ready to put into the copper ("for every hogshead) one pound of bruised liquorice root, cut short, a quarter of a pound of Spanish liquorice, and six pounds of coarse, brown, moist sugar, or the same quantity of treacle, and so in proportion for every cask. Be careful to put in these ingredients when the wort and hops are boiling, and let them gently boil for two hours, keeping the liquor well stirred from the sides and bottom the whole time : and then strain the hops off, and put it into the coolers the same as the other beers. Put into some of the Warm wort, half a pound ot moist sugar, boil this in an iron pot till it becomes a black, thick liquid, and then add, before it is cold, a pint of the warm porter, with a spoonful of salt of steel, and mix them well together; this is what the porter brewers call colour, and is in quality be- tween a bitter and sweet, which gives to the liquor that fine mellow taste and colour usually admired in good porter. In six months it will be fit for use, and will have, when drawn, a fine cauliflower head. . As no table beer is required from this, eight bushels of malt, and eight pounds of hops will be sufficient. Brown Stout.—To brew brown stout, porter, or strong beer, to go abroad, allow ten bushels to the hogshead, and if in- tended for a hot climate, fourteen pounds of hops, good, strong, perfectly sweet, and full of seed. All malt liquor that is brewed for long voyages at sea should de perfectly ripe and fine, before it is put on boaul, and should be sent in the same cask it is tunned in. A thirty-six gallon cask or barrel, is the most convenient size for ship-board. For sea voyages too, in lieu of vent-pegs, vent-nails should be procui ed from the ironmongers, for they shift up and down of themselves, as the beer requires. . „ , . . After the porter is fined in the manner of the other beers, with good hops, to make it carry a fine head, lower the hand in drawing it, some distance from tiie cock, and let it run down the side of the tankard, leaving lip-room on the top. If private families would havo good casks, and of a uniform size, nono are more durable, perhaps, than the lronbouml rum-puncheons, which general vhold about one hundred and twenty gallons, "Inch is nearly two hogsheads, beer measure, und may bo purchased of any of the great dealers in Jamaica rum, and at a reason- able price. These with care, and particu- i larly if painted in oil colours, will last i many years. If new casks be purchased, those of the bell shape are preferred. All new casks i U must be filled with fresh cold water, and left to stand three or four days, and then well scalded before beer is put into - 1 them. In cleaning casks, they must be washed i with cold water : and nothing is more 1 14 efficacious and searching in getting the I dirt out of all coolers, casks, Ac. than a lump of unslacked lime flung into the | water; when well soaked, they must be ' carefully scrubbed and cleaned with a I birch broom. If the casks should happen to become I musty, employ a cooper to unhead them and burn them out. As soon as a cask becomes empty, take care to stop up the bung, and vent and cork hole tight, which will be the means of keeping them sweet. The cocks should be taken from empty casks, and immediately clean scalded with | boiling water, and put away in a dry : place. The following suggestions and notices j cannot fail to be useful: Hops of every quality should be kept in a dry chamber. The hops that are intended to be used j when brewing, should be wetted thus; let 1 the tub stand under the cock of the copper, i which, half turned, enables you to moisten them gradually. They should be rubbed between the hands to separate them, and break the lumps. To cleanse musty casks, dissolve a pound of bay salt, and half a pound of alum in water, then add as much dung from a milking cow as will render it thick, but not more so than will allow it to pass through a funnel; place it on a fire, and stir it with a stick until it nearlv "boils, then put it into the cask; bung it close, shake it about for a few minutes, and let it remain two hours— j then take out the bung, and let the 1 vapour escape; fasten it down again, give it another shaking, and let it remain two hours more. After this, cleanse the cask thoroughly with cold water, not ceasing until it comes out perfectly clean and 1 untainted. This done, have ready a liquor, made with half a pound of bay salt, and two ounces of alum boiled in water; wash the cask well with this, and cleanse the cask as before with water, after which the cask will be fit for use.BRE 85 BRE The Cellar.—A good brewer, cellar- man, &c. will take delight in the well- ordering of the cellar. Attention must be paid to cleanliness botli in his person and business; every thing in the cellar conse- quently should be kept in due order. The brewer, or cellarman to the nobleman, or gentleman, who maintains a large esta- blishment, should occupy himself every morning in the cellars. The following duties are incumbent : ■ During the summer months, have the beer-cellars and stairs clean washed weekly, and particularly under the casks. Empty the tap-tubs daily, into a cask kept for the purpose of containing the slops and grounds; for the cellars, on opening, should always smell pure and sweet. By attention to these offices, the cellars are not only plea- sant to enter, but the beer is kept fine and cool during- the hot months ; whereas, by inattention to cleanliness, a filthy cellar will cause the beer to turn sour. During the winter months, scraping and sweeping out the cellars once a week will be sufficient. Observe, all cellars, in the winter, cannot be kept too close and warm, for without great attention on this point, the liquors cannot thrive. The following necessaries should be pro- vided for cellars to large establishments. Those families who brew on a smaller soale, will apply their uses according to their proportionate convenience : Suitable shot, and lead canister, with holes in bottom, and two cloths to wash bottles, to be kept in the bottle-rack. 1 wo suitable tubs for washing bottles only, with a form to standon. Six strain-cocks! bungs, corks, vent-pegs, and a mallet. A pair of pliers, to draw pegs, and cork- ctrawer. A leathern boot to buckle on the hnee, to contain the bottles when corkim- them, for if the bottle breaks the boot saves the liquor. A strong, heavy, mahogany cork driver. Six strong prickles to be Kept ln a dry place. Coarse linen to put under the bungs ; the old hop-sacks will serve. Six tin spouts, the size of a beer- cock, made at the lower end as broad as a banker s shovel at the bottom, for the beer to work through, from the top cork-hole, !' ith Jr°wn Paper round the top. A strong iron skewer to raise bungs with. A mid- dle-sized cooper’s gimlet, the sizo of the small spigots and faucets. A quire of trong brown paper to put round cocks, ... another quire to make hop-bags with. ?tr0ng sT°nSes to clean the utsides of the casks, &c. A pair of slums to grapple the casks with, to take into the cellars, for rolling them will cause dirt to hang about them, &c. A pair of strong folding steps. Half a dozen mahogany- spigots and faucets, about the size of the little finger, to be had of the best turners (being much superior to pegs, which are wasteful), to try all liquors if they are fine, &c. A strong hammer and iron driver, such as the coopers use, to drive down the hoops with, which have loosened from tubs, casks, &c. Two split sticks, for cellar can- dlesticks. Six ironbound tap-tubs, and brush to clean them with. A whisk, for the yeast, wine finings, &c. A six-gallon tub for the yeast, and pour the beer from it daily, then whisk the yeast up in the tub, and it will be fit for use. Delph labels to hang on the tops of all the liquor bins, as claret, champaign, sherry, calcavella, porter, cider, perry, port, rhenish, &c. A pewter crane, and valench. Four, or six ice-pails, for wines, &c. in summer. A wine basket, made to bold the bottles that are crusted on their sides, to bring from the cellar in that posi- tion. A raising-jack, to raise wine in casks upon their stands. A pulley and ropes to let wine and liquor down into the cellars. A wine-bit of various sizes, to bore the casks with. A flogger to beat up the wine bungs with. Two strong ironbound pails. A gunter’s gauge rule. A stamped bushel measure, to measure the malt with a strike. A small cooper’s adze. A pair of steel- yards to weigh the hops, or scales, with stamped lead or iron weights, to be kept dry. Two tin funnels, to put in spare bottles when bottling off. A. large wood ditto, for all beers. Two low stools to sit on. A leathern apron, with a pocket before, ior pegs, &c. and bib to button upon the waistcoat. A flannel bag, with hoop on top, made as a jelly-bag, to run the lees of all wine through. A common corkscrew. An ironbound wine-can, for fining wines iu. A hoe, a spade, six good stiff birch brooms, and the same number of strong rag mops. ° 1 he use of the iron skewer is to raise up the bung by degrees, first giving it vent, for drawing it up with the hands is a dan- gerous operation. Have a large cupboard made and fixed in the cellar, or near it, in a dry spot, to bold most of the small tools, so that every thing may be at hand when wanted, kucli tools as are too large for the cupboard, may be kept in the brewhouse. Malt.—In choosing the malt, take espe„BRI 86 BRti cial care that it is not peat or straw dried : and procure it of a pale colour, for they are the best of all malts, and more balsamic, also soft and smooth, and highly agreeable to the palate. Every gentleman who studies his own interest, would do wisely to purchase the malt unground: for iu grinding your own malt, you have not only the satis- faction of knowing that it is not adul- terated, but there is another advantage, for of ten bushels of malt in the grain, there will be a saving of nearly two bushels. JVIalts should not he ground too fine, but on the contrary, broke or made into a kind of coarse meal. Good malt is known by a simple test, namely, by chewing it; for if well made, it will he nearly as sweet as sugar, delight- ful to the smell, of a mellow flavour, round body, and thin skin. Hops.—When hops are purchased, let them not be loose in the bags, but very tight packed, for that preserves them. Be careful that no soap or grease gets about the tubs or pails, for either will pre- vent the beer from working, and waste the whole. Never suffer the brewliouse to be used but for the operations belonging to the brewery, nor any of the tubs and pails for other purposes, nor suffer them to be taken from the brewbouse. Take care that the liquor-stands he quite steady, for if they rock they injure the beer. They should be made sufficiently stout, and of oak, when they will last for many years. Fine strong beer for bottling, should be six months old. Observe—never bottle in the cellar, either wine, beer, cider, &c., but on a fine clear day. Let the bottles be well inspected, and use none hut the best velvet corks; for to purchase inferior, low- priced corks, is mistaken economy, as, besides other bad effects, they will cause all liquors to taste of them. Beer, cider, and perry, for home con- sumption, should stand in the bottles six or eight hours before they are corked. Cider and perry should have the corks ■wired, and be packed in a bin with sand ; the beer should be well corked, and packed in a bin with dry deal sawdust. Some beers require to be wired. Bottled beer for sending a voyage, should be drawn in the bottles, and left, to stand forty-eight hours to flatten, before it is corked, and then wired with brass wire, cut for the purpose into proper lengths. As cool, fine, bottled, transparent table beer is esteemed in the heat of summer, always during that season have some bot- tled off', and packed in dry deal sawdust; the old corks will serve, "it is best to use two-quart bottles (Scotch pints), and when used at table, pour it gently down the side of the glass, or decant it off in a japan jug, to prevent much froth. It is the custom with the butler or cel- larman at great houses, where the family pride themselves on the superior quality of their malt liquors, a fortnight before ale, or strong or table beer is used at the master’s dinner-table, to peg a cask, or two, of each, in order to select those of the best quality and flavour (for every cask is apt to differ, from some hidden cause, though brewed alike), and two or three days before it is wanted, let it be tapped, and draw off a quart or two of each, which will greatly help to fine it; make use of strainer-cocks, and keep the vent-pegs tight in. In tho summer months, however, they may be eased, particularly it the hear frets ; and never neglect to have a tap-tub under each cock. By attention to these rules, the butler may secure to his master the proud satisfaction, which has long been the boast of one of our oldest peers, in the elegant hospitalities of his castle, ot giving to his guests, a sparkling glass of “ British Cham- pagne.” BRILL—Is dressed in the same manner as turbots. BRIOCHE.*—Divide half a quartern of flour into three parts, and knead into one of them half an ounce of yeast and a little warm water, wrap it in a cloth and set it hv, in summer time for a quarter of an. hour, and iu winter for a whole hour. When it has risen, put it to the remainder of the flour, with a pound and a halt of butter, ten eggs, half a glass of water, and nearly an ounce of salt; knead them toge- ther with your hand thoroughly, and then wrap it in a clean cloth, and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut this paste into the size you wish to have your cakes, moisten, and . roll them in your hand, flatteu the top, and gild them with the yolk ot an egg. ■ Half an hour will be sufficient to bake the small ones; large cakes will require an hour and a half. Brioche Fritters.*—Cut some small brioche cakes in halves, take out the middle, and put in some kind of sweetmeat, or made cream ; put the two halves of each 1BRO BRO 87 together, so that they may appear whole ; dip them in a paste made of flour, a little oil, salt and white wine, fry them of a gold colour, and glaze them with sugar; pass a salamander over. . Brioche Fritters.*—Cut your brioche paste into slices of whatever thickness you may think proper, soak them in milk, sugar, and orange-flower water ; then let them drain; dip in batter, or flour alone, and fry them. ' Brioche au Fromage.—When you make the brioche, cut some Swiss cheese into dice, and throw them into the paste while it is liquid, and bake as before. BROCOLI.—Strip off all the little branches till you come to the top one, then with a knife peel away the hard outside skin from the stalks, and throw them into ■Water. Have ready a stewpan of water, throw in a little salt, and when it boils put in the brocoli. When the stalks are tender it is done. Put a piece of toasted bread in a dish, lay the brocoli on it. Serve with melted butter. Another way.—Prepare them as above, and stew till tender, with pepper and salt. Biiocor.i and Eggs.—Boil brocoli as Usual, reserve a large bunch for the middle. ■Toast apiece of bread and lay it on a dish; beat up as many eggs ns you think proper, ■put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter and a little salt. Keep beating them with a spoon till thick enough, and then pour them on the toast. Set the large bunch of brocoli in the middle, and the other pieces round it. Garnish the dish w-ith sprigs of brocoli. Brocoli may be dressed exactly the same as cauliflowers. ■ BROILING.*—The process is more simple than that of any other method of dressing meat, the operation is quick, and the object under the hand and eye of the cook, from the moment of its being put upon the gridiron, to that of its comple- tion. The cook must prepare her fire for the operation in due time; when ready, it should be clear and bright—so free from black coal or smoke, that the chop or steak may come from the gridiron without blemish or taint of sulphur or smoke. The best fuel for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke, as little smoke is emitted 'from either, even on commencing the fire ; und when well ignited, it is entirely free from it. Coke, added to a brisk coal fire, also burns bright, and is well suited for the operation ; though with care, a proper firb may be made of good sea-coal. Certain unqualified declaimers upon a broil, hold various opinions touching the proper thickness of a steak; though at the most celebrated chop-houses, the cooks, unless expressly desired otherwise, con- fine the cut to somewhat more than half, yet less than the thickness of three quarters of an inch. This adjustment of the pro- portion of the stratum of the delicious rump, is moreover according to the statute law of the thrice learned conclave, the Beef Steak Club ; amongst whose members, from the epoch of its original founder, George Lambert, and his distinguished con- vives, to the present day, may be num- bered the most accomplished gourmands of this renowned land of good cheer. *** The choicest steak, moreover, be it hereby known, on the authority of one of the best-informed butchers in this great metropolis, who served the Beef Steak Club, the last season, is cut from the rump of a prime Norfolk-fed Scot! There is this, amongst other disadvan- tages, in cutting too thick a steak, the out- side is likely to be scorched to horny hard- ness, before the interior is half-cooked ; hence, to say nothing of the misery of those who have not the advantage of capacious mouths, the disappointed epicure must either wait until it is put again upon the gridiron, or instead of eating it rare, be constrained to eat it raw. No gridiron should be used, but those with fluted bars, which forming channels, the greater part of the fat, which otherwise falls into the fire and scorches the steak, is drawn off into a gutter at the bottom. The gridiron should be thoroughly heated, and the bars rubbed with beef or mutton suet, previously to putting on the steak, to pre- vent its being marked by, or adhering to. the bars. ° A vigilant eye should be kept upon the steak, to watch the moment for turning it, which is repeatedly done, during' the pro- cess. Broiling-tongs of convenient size should be used, with which, by a little practice, the steak may be turned with ease and despatch. The cook must have her dish thoroughly heated, to receive the broil when done, and the cover hot, to place upon it instantly. Even when she has accomplished her task, if the servant who is to take it to the table loiters on the way, the steak will have lost its zest. A steak or chop, then, should be briskly88 BRO BRO cooked, speedily conveyed to table, and served with despatch. It may be made either a delectable treat to the accomplished amateur of good eating, or a dish scarcely endurable to the voracious appetite of a fa- mished hunter. BRONDADE.—Take a piece of fine stockfish, let it soak for four-and-twenty hours in water to cleanse and soften ; then put it in a pot full of water on the fire, taking care to remove it when it begins to boil; melt some butter over a gentle fire, with some garlic, oil, and parsley. In the mean time, pick and cut the stockfish into small pieces, put it into the saucepan, and as it thickens, pour in a little butter or milk. Keep stirring until the fish is melted to a sort of cream. Pounded spinach may be used to make it green. BROOM Buds, to pickle.— Gather the buds before they grow yellow on the top, mix salt and water until completely melted, then put in the huds; stir them every day until they sink to the bottom, and then ' keep them closely covered. BROSE (Scotch).—This is generally made of the liquor meat has been boiled in; of which put as much in a porringer as will mix half a pint of oatmealinto the consist- ence of hasty pudding, or a little thicker. Lastly, take a little of the fat that swims on the broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it like hasty pudding. BROTH.—Put the mouse round ofbeef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover it close with a dish or coarse paste. Put a sufficient quantity of water to cover the meat, and bake it till tender. When cold, let it stand in a cool place, covered close; flavour it as you please. Brotii, Fat.—Boil part of a round and leg of beef with other meat, and take out the gravy and broth, and strain it through a napkin : then boil them a se- cond time, and take out the broth again, keeping both these sorts apart. The first will be good to put to capons, turkey- poults, veal, and other forced meats, to be served in white soups. Capon or veal broth ought to be used to soak young pigeons ior bisque; and with the broth of the bisques, a cullis may be made for soup <t la reine, or u la royale. The broth of farced meats will serve to make a cullis for the same sorts ot meat; as young turkeys, and pullets, knuckles of veal, and other sorts of meats, that ought to be farced and parboiled. The second sort of broth, is to be put into brown soups, of ducks, teal, rabbits, wood-pigeons, pheasants, &c., or of vege- i tables, roots, &c. ; and the brown ingre- dients which serve to thicken them, are to be mixed with the broth. Broth (Fish).—Take tench, carp, pike, and eels, prepare them for boiling, cut them in pieces, and put them into a kettle with I i water, salt, butter, an onion stuck with j cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it boil an hour and a half, then strain it through a napkin, and divide it into three lesser kectles. Into one of them put mush- rooms, and strain them through a sieve, ! with a cullis, a sliced lemon, and some ii fried wheaten flour. Broth (Fish).—Set water over the fire in a kettle proportioned to the quantity of broth to be made ; put in the roots of pars- ley, parsnips, and whole onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley and sorrel, and butter; let the whole be well seasoned : then put in the bones and car- casses of the fish, the flesh of which you have used for farces ; and also the tripes of them, being thoroughly cleansed, with some tails of crayfish, pounded in a mortar, and four or five spoonsful of the juice of onions. Let all these be well seasoned and boiled, then strained through a sieve ; put it back into the kettle, and keep it hot, to simmer your soups, to boil your fish, and other things. Broth (Fish).—Cutonions, carrots,and parsnips, into slices, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and set 1 them stewing withjuic&of onions. When these are brown, put them into the stew- pan, and give them two or three turns: let the whole be moistened with a clear puree; ; then put in a bunch of parsley, chives, sweet herbs, cloves, and some mushrooms. Let all these boil together for one hour; then strain them through a sieve into another kettle, and use it to simmer fish soup. Note, that carp is the best fish to make fish broth. Broth Jellu.—Take a joint of mutton, a capon, a fillet of veal, and three quarts of water; put these into an earthen pan, and boil them over a gentle fire till reduced to half; then squeeze all together, and strain the liquor through a napkin. Broth (Meagre), for Soup uith Herbs.—* Set on a kettle of water, put in two or three crusts of bread, and all sorts ot good herbs; season with salt; put in butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it tor an hour and a half: then strain it through s sieve, or napkin. 1 his will servo to makflBRU 89 BUL lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup desante, &c. with herbs. Broth of Boots.—Take a quart of peas, boil them till tender; bruise them to a I mash, put them into a boiling vessel that will hold four gallons of water; hang it over the fire for an hour and a half; then take it off and let it settle ; then take a lesser kettle, and strain the clear puree into it through a sieve; then put into it a bunch of carrots, half a bunch of parsnips, and a bunch of parsley roots, and six onions, a hunch of potherhs, an onion Stuck with cloves, and season it with salt. Boil all these together ; then add a bunch of chervil, another of sorrel, and two spoonsful of the juice of onions. This broth is of use to simmer all sorts of soups made of vegetables. Broth (White).—Boil a fowl, and when it is enough, take it up, and put it into a dish : then boil your cream with a blade of mace, and thicken it with eggs ; then put in tlie marrow of one beef bone, and take some of the broth and mingle them together; put to it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thicken on the fire; then put the fowl hot out of the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, and serve it. BROWN Colouring for made Dishes.—■ I Take four ounces of sugar, beat it fine ; put it into an iron fryingpan, or earthen pipkin; set it over a clear fire, and when the sugar is melted it will be frothy; put it higher from the fire, until it is a fine brown ; keep it stirring all the time, fill the pan up with red wine ; take care that it does not boil over, add a little salt and lemon; put a little cloves and mace, a shalot or two, boil it gently for ten mi- nutes; pour it in a basin till it is cold, then bottle it for use. BRUNOISE.—Cut some carrots, tur- nips, &c. into dice ; if summer time, fry them in butter, if the winter, blanch them; when fried without having lost their ori- ginal colour, moisten them with rich broth, seasoned with salt and a little sugar, and let the whole boil for an hour. Green .pease, asparagus tops, &c. may be added, j “him off the fat, and put in some crusts of bread, cut thin, and soaked previously in broth, and serve. BRUNSWICK Tart.—Pare and core ^itli a scoop, eight or ten golden pippins, put them into a stewpan, with a gill of sweet wine and four ounces of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon peel, a little cinna- mon and mace; stew them over a slow hre till the apples are tender ; when cold, put them into a very light, or vol-au-vent paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUSOLES.—Take some beef steaks, beat them and put them into a stewpan with thin slices of bacon laid underneath ; strew over them chopped cliibbols, parsley, and spices; then another layer of steaks, and strew them over as before ; then cover them all with broad slices of bacon, and cover the stewpan close, and put fire under- neath and at top. When they are ready, prepare a cullis with the carcasses of par- tridges ; then take off all the fat, lay them in a dish, and pour the cullis over them. BU B BLE-AND-SQ UEAK.—Sprinkle some slices of cold boiled salted beef, with pepper, fry them with a bit of butter of a light brown. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry and chop it small; take the beef out of the fryingpan, and lay the cabbage in it, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over; keep the pan moving over the fire for a few minutes. Lay the cabbage in themiddleofthe dish, and the beef round it. BUCKTHORN (Syrup of).— Gather the berries in the heat of the day, and set in an earthen vessel in the oven ; squeeze out the juice, and for each peck of berries put two pounds of Lisbon sugar and boil them together a quarter of an hour; let it cool, and then bottle it. Another way.—Take three quarts of the juice of clarified buckthorn berries, and four pounds of brown sugar ; make them into a syrup over a gentle fire, and while warm, mix with it a drachm of the dis- tilled oil of cloves, dissolved on a lump of sugar. The true buckthorn may be known by the number of its seeds, having four, the alder buckthorn has only two, and the cherry buckthorn one seed. The former is to be used. BULLACE Cheese (ivith the skins).— Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water. Pour off some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit, weigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit in a pan over the fire, let it boil quickly, till it begins to look dry 5 take out the stones, add the sugar, stir it in well and simmer it slowly for two hours ; then boil it quickly half an hour. The jam may then be poured into potting-pans. Bullace Cheese (without the skins).— Bake or boil the fruit as above; but, in- stead of taking out the juice, beat the bullaces through a coarse sieve; then pro-90 BUS BUN iceed as before, crack the stones and boil the kernels with the jam. The sugar must not be added until the juice lias eva- porated. Bullaces (to preserve).—Prick the fruit, throw them into scalding water for a mi- nute, take them clear from the water, strew over them powdered lump sugar; the next day pour off the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it over the bullaces, and let it stand a day or two; boil the syrup again, put in the fruit and boil them together (be careful not to mash them), and then put the preserve into jars; when cold, put brandy papers. To a pound of fruit allow half a pound of sugar. BUNS, common.—Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, and a few caraway seeds. Put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good yeast as will make the above into a light paste; set it by the fire to rise. They will bake quickly on tins. You may add nutmeg. Buns (Cross).—To the above mixture put one ounce and a half of ground all- spice, cinnamon, and mace, mixed, and when half proved, press the form of a cross with a tin mould in the centre, and finish as above. Buns (Plum).—To two pounds of the plain bun paste put half a pound of cur- •rants, a quarter of a pound of candied orange peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmeg grated, half an ounce of mixed spice, such as allspice, cinnamon, &c. Mould them into buns, jag them round the edges with a knife, and proceed as above. Buns, richer.—Put four pounds of fine flour into a wooden bowl; set a sponge of it with a gill of yeast and a pint of warm milk ; then mix with it one pound of sifted sugar, one pound of oiled fresh butter, coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small quantity of each, pounded fine. Poll the paste into buns, set them on a baking-plate rubbed with butter, put them in a moderate oven to prove ; then wash them with a paste-brush, dipped in warm milk, and bake of a good colour. Buns (Seed).—Take two pounds of plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce of caraway seeds ; butter the insides of tart- pans, mould the dough into buns, and put lone into each pan; set them to rise in a warm place, and when sufficiently proved ice them with the white of an egg beat to a froth, lay some pounded sugar over that, and dissolve it witli water splashed from 'the icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. BUNTINGS (Poupeton of).—Having j singed, blanched, and trussed the bunt- ings, lard them and fry them ; put them into a stewpan with some good gravy or broth, and when tender, add sweetbreads cut in pieces and fried ; a few mushrooms and morels, and ten or a dozen chestnuts ] blanched, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put into another pan, a quarter of a pound of butter, a handful of flour, two onions, and a pint of gravy, brown them, and then put in the birds, &c. and stew the whole together some time. Take it off and set it to cool; line a saucepan ; (having buttered it well) with thin slices of bacon, cover them with forcemeat, half | an inch thick, on this place the buntings, the breast downwards, with the rest of the ragout, taking away the bacon and onion, and squeeze the juice of a lemon; cover the whole with a layer, an inch thick, of forcemeat, press it close and smooth with a knife, brush it over with egg, strew bread crumbs over, and bake it an hour. When wanted for table, loosen it from the saucepan with a knife, and turn it on a dish. Squeeze the juice of an orange on it and serve. BURNET VINEGAR.—Fill a wide- mouthed bottle with fresh green burnet | leaves, cover them with vinegar and let | them stand for ten days. To make it very strong, strain the liquor, put it on fresh leaves to steep fourteen days longer. BUSTARDS (to boil).—Take oft' the j skin, but leave the rump and legs whole, with the pinions, then mince the flesh raw, with beef suet, season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet herbs, shred small and mix all together with the yolks of raw eggs, the bottoms of boiled artichokes, roasted chestnuts, blanched marrow, and boiled skirrets, cut small; then fill their skins with this farce, and prick them upoii the back; put them into a deep dish, with strong broth, white wine, large mace, arti- chokes boiled and quartered, marrow, salt, barberries, grapes, and some of the meat made up into balls; cover your dish, let them stew, and when they are done, serve them upon sippets, broth them, and garnish with slices of lemon, run it over with beaten butter, and garnish the dish with chestnuts and yolks of eggs. Bustaiid Pic.—Bone your bustard, par- boil, and lard it, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, lay butter in the bottom of the pie, add a few beaten cloves, then lay in the fowl, strew more seasoning over it, lav on a sufficient quantity of butter, closeit up, bake, nnd when cold, fill it up with clarified butter. BUTTER.—The milk intended for but- ter should stand for twenty-four Lours in the summer, and double that time in the winter season ; skim the milk before the 6un has warmed the dairy, as it should be kept during the whole of the operation as cool as possible. If the churn can be plac- ed in a tub of water it will give consist- ence to the butter. When the butter is come, pour oil' the buttermilk, put the butter into a clean pan, pour water on it, and let it become firm before you work it; change the water, and beat it well with flat boards, changing the water frequently. When the taste of the buttermilk is quite gone, and the water quite clean, work a little salt into it, weigh and make it up into the proper forms, and put them in cold water into an earthenware pan with a cover. If not convenient to chum daily, the Cream should be put into very clean pans until the next churning. Butter, how- ever, ought to be made twice a week, at least; in hot weather it requires much more working than in cold, and not the slightest flavour of the buttermilk should be suffer- ed to remain. Persons who have not na- turally a cool hand, should never attempt to make butter. In winter, when the cows feed on tur- nips, the butter has an unpleasant flavour, to prevent which, when the milk is brought into the dairy, put a quart of boiling wa- ter to every two gallons of milk, and let it stand as usual for cream. A quarter of a pint of warm spring water, in which nitre has been dissolved, put to ten or twelve of new milk, will also counteract the above flavour. • Burrtn Biscuits.*—Make a paste as for sweet biscuits, and when you have put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of melt- ed butter, after it has cooled a little ; mix them together a short time with a wooden spoon, and put it into buttered moulds, which must only be filled three parts, as the paste pufts up considerably, and would rise from the moulds, without care. Butter (Blade)*—Put, half a pound of butter in a saucepan on the side of your stove, so that it may just heat sufficiently to colour it; do not skim it. Into a large glass of vinegar put all sorts of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, salt, pepper, ™'d a sliced shalot, reduce this over the •fire to one fourth of the quantity, add it to the coloured butter, rack the whole off clear, and pass it through a fine sieve. Use as wanted. Butter (Black).*—Fry a piece of but- ter in a fryingpan until it is quite black, taking care not to burn it; skim and pour it over whatever you may wish to serve it with ; put your fryingpan again on the fire, and put a little vinegar into it with a little salt; when it boils, pour it over the butter. Butter (Black). — Three pounds of fruit, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, and cherries, to a pound of coarse sugar, boiled till quite thick. It must waste to half the quantity. Butter, Borders of.* — Take some Montpellier butter (either green or red) and spread it equally over two saucepan- lids, laying it about three eighths of an inch in thickness ; place the lids on pound- ed ice, and when the butter is congealed remove it with the blade of a knife, and lay it on a napkin ; then, with a tin paste- cutter, or stamp of whatever figure you may choose, cut the butter, and place them in borders according to your fancy. Take care to dip your stamp in cold water frequently, as that will enable you to keep the edges of the butter sharp. Butter Borders (common).*—If you have no Montpellier butter, take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, work it up well with a knife, mixing with it either of the following- colouring materials: For rose- colour, a little infusion of carmine, or any vegetable red ; green, spinach juice; yel- low, an infusion of saffron ; violet, a little Prussian blue added to the red ; orange, the red and yellow joined together ; the remainder of the operation is performed as above. Butter (Burnt) Sauce. — Fry some butter; when it begins to smoke, throw into it some chopped parsley ; when suf- ficiently done, add pepper, salt, and vine- gar. Butter Cakes.—Beat a dish of butter with your hands to a cream, add two pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried flour, and twenty-four eggs; leave out half the whites, and then beat all to- gether for an hour: when you are going to put it in the oven add a quarter of an ounce of mace and a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds and currants, if you think proper. Butter (to clarify).'—Scrape off the outside of the butter you may require, and then put it into a stewpan by the side of a slow fire, where it must remain till theBUT 92 CAB scum rises to the top and the milk settles at the bottom ; carefully with a spoon take off the scum. When clear, it is lit for use. Butter (Delicious).*—Lay open three clean coarse cloths, one over the other; put a pint of thick cream in the upper one, tie it up in them as close and tight as pos- sible. Bury it in the earth in a dry place, eighteen inches deep, for twenty-four hours. The next morning put the cream into a cool earthen pan, and stir it up with a wooden spoon, for live minutes in the summer, and a quarter of an hour in the winter, when you will have a lump of cool, fresh, and most delicious butter, for the breakfast-table. Butter Drops.—Take three eggs, leave out half the whites, half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two spoonsful of rose water, a little mace and seeds. Butter (Fairy).—Beat the yolks of two hard eggs in a mortar, with a large spoon- ful of orange-flower water, and two spoonsful of line sugar; beat all to a fine paste, add an equal quantity of butter, fresh from the churn, and force all together through a fine strainer, full of little holes, into a plate. Buttered Loaves.—Beat up the yolks of a dozen eggs, with half of the whites, aud half a pint of yeast; strain them into a dish, season with salt, and a little powdered ginger, then make it into a high paste with flour ; lay it in a warm cloth for a quarter of an hour ; then make it up into little loaves, and bake them, melt a pound and a half of butter, with a quarter of a pint of white wine, and half a pound of sugar, and liquor them with it. Butter de Montpellier*—Put the yolks of twelve hard eggs into a mortar, with a green ravignte scalded (see Ravigote), six •anchovies, a handful of capers picked and washed, six pickled cucumbers, some salt and pepper; pound all these well toge- ther, until they form a paste; then add the yolks of two raw eggs, bruising them with the pestle, and then gradually pour upon, and mix with your ingredients, a pound and a half of oil of olives, and a little vine- gar, until the whole becomes ot a con- sistence of new butter, then pass it through a sieve ; if your butter is not sufficiently green, you must add a little spinach juice. Butter tie Montpellier is commonly used for cold entrees; and a little garlic may. be added, according to taste. Butter (Preserved) for Winter Use.— Take two parts of the best common salt. one part of good loaf sugar, and one part t saltpetre ; beat them well together. To sixteen ounces of butter, thoroughly cleans- i. ed from the milk, put one ounce of the above composition; work it well, and put j i I it into pots, when quite firm and cold. Butter (Proven$ule) Sauce*—Pound a few cloves of garlic, pass them through a double-hair sieve into an earthenware pan; pour some good olive oil; stir them to- gether, until they form a lump like butter. ) Salt it to your taste. Butter (to roust).—Lay a pound of but* |j ter in salt and water for two or three [I hours ; put it on a spit, and rub it all over with crumbs of bread, mixed with grated nutmeg; put it to the fire, and as it roasts, e baste it with the yolks of two eggs, and | crumbs of bread ; stew a pint of oysters in their own liquor, and when the bread has completely imbibed all the gravy, brown it, and lay it in a dish, with the stewed oysters under it. Butter Suuce.—Put nearly half a pound of good fresh butter into a saucepan, with I a quart of sauce tournee, properly reduced; stir till they are well mixed together. Butter (Thickened).*—Melt what quan- tity of butter you may require; be careful not to colour it; beat up the yolks of eggs, [ and then pour them to the butter, beating them all the while. Put them on the fire; i add a little lemon juice. Butter and sweet Herbs*—Take some chervil, half the quantity of pimpernel, chives, tarragon, and cress; scald and chop the rvhole very small, then mix it with some good fresh butter. C. CABBAGES « VAllemande. — Take some very small headed cabbages, and, | after blanching, cut them up rather small, and turn them a few times over the fire in a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of melted butter or lard ; when nearly done, moisten with a little gravy or jelly broth, and serve with bacon or sausages. Cabbage and Bacon*—Blanch a cab- bage, cut it in quarters, and put it into a stewpan, with a piece of streaked bacon; season it, moisten with water, and give it a boil, then let it stew over a moderate fire; when done, dress the cabbage on a dish, with the bacon over it; reduce the liquor, and add to it a little butter, worked with somo flour, and then serve it over the ba- con and cabbage.CAB CAB 93 Cabbage (to boil).—Having cut your stuffing may fall out, and boil it in some cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of stock; with the saucepan-lid on. water, with a handful of salt. When it is Cabbage a la Creme.*—Wash your cab- tender, drain it on a sieve, but never press bage very clean; boil it in water, with a it. Savoys and greens are boiled in the little salt, then leave it to drain and cool: same manner; but they should always be boiled by themselves. You may, if you please, chop it, and beat it with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. Cabbages (Boiled and Stewed).—Cab- bages are generally simply tied round, and boiled. If you wish to stew them, cut a cabbage into four; boil it a quarter of an i hour, with a piece of streaked bacon, cut ; into bits, and the rind on. Afterwards ! change it in cold water; squeeze it well, i and tie each quarter that it may keep its i form. Then stew it with some stock, salt, and pepper, a buuch of parsley and green onions, cloves, a little nutmeg, two or three roots, and the meat you intend to serve with it; when both the meat and ; cabbage are done, wipe off the grease, and dish it for table, tire streaked bacon on it, and serve with a sauce of good cullis, . agreeably seasoned. The different parts 1 of meat that cabbages are best boiled with i are, veal tendons, breast of beef, a bit of ( round of beef, pork chitterlings, a shoulder i of mutton, boned and tied into a round, or a trussed capon. Whatever meat the cab- bage is stewed with, should be previously boiled a few minutes in water, to take oil' the scum. Cabbage a la Bourgeoise*—Take a whole cabbage, boil it during a quarter of an hour, and then shift it into cold water; squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves, which you must take off one by one, spreading over each a little force- meat, made like that for stuffed duck. Put the leaves again one over the other, that they may appear as if the cabbage was entire ; secure them thus with packthread, and stew them a la braise in the same man- ner as neat’s tongue, seasoning to your taste AVhen the cabbage is done, press Jt lightly in a linen cloth, to take off the at; cut it in two, and put it on a dish, pouring over it a good cullis. Cabbage d la Bourgeoise.—Take out the heart of some large cabbages, parboil them, and then stuff the centre of the cabba-e between each leaf, with the following stuffing: Mince the white part of the imultry, or game, with some bacon and Ve®‘ >. lf y°u have no poultry the veal is sufficient; thicken with the yolks of some eSgs; tie up the cabbage, that none of the afterwards cut it in middling-sized pieces, and brown them in butter, adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; moisten with cream, then reduce it over a gentle fire, till it becomes of a very thick consistence. Cabbage a la Creme.—Wash and boil the cabbage in water, with a handful of salt; when soft, take it out, squeeze it, and put it in a stewpan, with some but- ter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a spoon- ful of flour, moistening with a little cream. Cabbage Cream.—Put a gallon of milk over the fire, and skim it as long as any froth rises, then empty it into eight or ten bowls, as fast as you can without making it froth; then set them in a place where the A\dnd may blow upon them ; when the milk is rather cooled, gather off the cream with your hands, crumple it together and lay it on a plate ; when you have laid four or five layings, one upon another, then dip a feather in rose water and musk, and stroke it over it; then sift some fine su°-ar and grated nutmeg over it, and lay°on three or four layers more; then set all the milk on the fire to boil again, and when it rises up, distribute it as you did before in your bowls, and use it in the like manner ; this do for four or five times, laying on your cream as before, one upon another, till it is as high and as round ns a cab- bage. Let one of the bowls stand, be- cause it will be thickest and most crum- pled, and lay that last on the top of all ; strew loaf sugar pounded over the whole' and serve. Cabbage a la Flamande.*—Cut a cab- bage into quarters, parboil, and then change it into cold water ; squeeze it, take out, the heart, and tie it round ; then stew it with a piece of butter, some good stock, seven or eight onions, a bunch of herbs,’ and a little salt and coarse pepper ; when almost done, put in some vinegar; and when the whole is sufficiently cooked, take a crust ot broad, rather larger than the palm of your hand, fry it in butter; and put it into the bottom of the dish, upon which place the cabbage and sausages, with the onions round, taking care that the tat bo well dried off the whole ; then skim the sauce, add a little cullis to it, and serve it, neither too thick, nor too thin, pour over the whole.94 CAB CAB Cabbages (to keep).—Small close cab- bages, laid on a stono floor before the frost sets in, will blanch, and be very fine after many weeks keeping. Cabbage and Milk Soup.—Boil a large wbite-hearted cabbage in water; when half done, put to it a quarter of a pound of butter, seasoning to your taste ; when it is well boiled, take out three parts of the water, substituting the same quantity of boiling milk; pour it into the tureen after it has once boiled up, putting the cabbage also into the tureen whole ; serve quick. Cabbage (White) pickled.*—Slice your cabbage tliin; then lay it in salt for twenty-four Lours; strain it very dry, then put it in a stone jar, with allspice, mace and ginger; boil your vinegar, and pour it on boiling liot; tie it very close, repeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit for use. Cabbage Soup a la Provengale.—Boil different sorts of vegetables together, in- cluding half a peck of peas, and a cabbage blanched, cut in quarters, and tied with packthread. Add a wine-glass full of the best oil. When the vegetables are boiled, and your broth properly salted, strain it, then leave it on to stew, serving it up gar- nished with cabbages. Cabbace and Cheese Soup a la Provencale. —Cut a large cabbage into quarters, and, after blanching, boil it in water; when three parts done add a quarter oi a pound of butter and the requisite seasoning. Grate half a pound of gray ere, or Parme- san cheese. Prepare, also, some very thin slices of bread, and, two hours before din- ner, make the soup in the following man- ner : Take a metal or earthenware tureen that will stand the fire, and that can be used at table; first, put into it a layer of grated cheese, then one of cabbage leaves, previously boiled and dried on a cloth; next, some of the slices of bread, then those of cheese, commencing again with cabbage, &c. alternately, the upper layer of all being of sliced cheese. Having thus filled the tureen within two fingers’ width of the top, pour on its contents about half a pint of the water in which the cabbages (after beingblanched) were boiled, making tho cabbage broth penetrate to the bottom of tho tureen, by piercing its contents in several places with a knife; then place the tureen on a stove of moderate beat, letting tho soup simmer, without stirring, for more than an hour. When the soup is ready for table, the cabbage broth will have been all absorbed ; some persons, conse- quently add more hot broth to itat the mo- j ment of serving; but the true method of serving it a la Provencale, is to send it up | dry, using with it, at table, only the finest j oil. Cabbage Pudding.—Take two poundsof beef suet, as much of the lean part of a leg of veal; take a little cabbage and scald it, then bruise the suet, veal, and cabbage together in a marble mortar; season them with mace, nutmeg, ginger, a little pepper and salt: some green gooseberries, grapes, or barberries;—in winter, some verjuice; mix them all well together, with the yolk3 of four or five eggs, well beat; wrap up all together in a green cabbage leaf, tie it in a cloth ; an hour will boil it. Purple Cabbage to pickle.—Take two cauliflowers, two red cabbages, half a peck of kidney beans, six sticks with six cloves of garlic on each stick; wash all well, give them one boil up, then strain them in a sieve, and lay them leaf by leaf upon a large table, and salt them with bay salt ; then lay them to dry in the sun, or in a slow oven, until as dry as cork. Cabbage Ragout.*—Take the half of a middling-sized cabbage, boil it for half an hour, and then change it in cold water; squeeze it well, and take out the heart; cut the cabbage in small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with a slice of good butter; turn it a few times over the fire, and shake in some flour; put in sufficient gravy to give colour to the ragout; let it boil over a slow fire till the cabbage is done, and re- duced to a thick sauce; season it with salt, coarse pepper, and a little grated nutmeg : serve under any meat you think proper. Cabbage R'ogout.—Scald one cabbage cut into quarters (savoys are best), drain the water quite out, tie them with pack- thread, and braise in a good braise ; serve with a fine thick cullis sauce, pretty high of pepper. Cabbage Ragout.—Divide a cabbage in the middle, blanch it in hot water, squeeze it, tie it with packthread, and put it into a stewpan, and stew it a hi braise ; when it is stewed, drain it, untie it, cut it in little slices into a saucepan, and let it simmer with some cullis of veal, and ham: after- wards putin some cullis of veal and ham to thicken it, and serve it with roasted, boiled, or stewed meat. Cabbage Bed.*—Boil your cabbage tor a short time, then take out the heart, and cut it into pieces; then put it into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, and let it stew over a moderate fire.CAB 95 CAB stirring it very frequently whilst dressing, to mix it well with the butter. Cabbages (lied).—They are mostly stewed to eat with ham, bacon, or smoked sausages, though sometimes without any meat; they are very strong eating, and , should be first scalded, then stewed with butter, pepper, salt, and cloves; and vine- gar- added to it just before serving : they are reckoned wholesome in veal broth for consumptions; but are most proper for pickling, as gherkins, &c. . Cabbage (Red) u la Flamande.*—Take ' two red cabbages, cut them in quarters; take out the hearts, and cut them in pieces, i blanch them, then put them into cold fvater, after which put them into a stew- 1 pan with a piece of butter, a bay leaf, an ' onion stuck with cloves, some salt and 1 pepper ; stir them about, so that the cab- l bage may be well mixed with the butter ; I place your stewpan on the fire, put fire j upon the lid of the stewpan, and let it simmer for three or four hours ; turn the i cabbage frequently, and be careful not to Jet it burn; when the cabbage is done, , take out the bay leaf and the onion ; add a 1 little more butter, and serve hot. Cabbage (Red) pickled.*—Take about a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, and put ; into a little bag, and boil it with as much vinegar as you think sufficient for the cab- r bage, with a little salt and bay salt; when it boils, scald the cabbage with it, then boil it up again, and put a little ginger and ' pepper into it; then put it in something to cool; when cold, put the cabbage into jars, and put the pickle upon it, and tie it down. j ■ Cabbage (Red) stewed.—Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage; wash, and put it into a saucepan, with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew- till quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or three Spoonsful of vinegar, and give one boil orer the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Cabbage (Red) stewed.— Shred the cab- ! bage ; wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and I a ll.ttle Plilm STavy. When quite tender, and a fow minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and boil up. Cabbage (Red) slewed.'.—Cut the cab- ! ,aSe ve.r.V thin, and put it into the stew- 1 pan, with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a : pmt ot broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stow covered three hours. When it is very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted : then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Cabbace (Red) stewed.—Take a fine red cabbage, cut it into tbin slices crosswise, and then into small bits ; put them in a stewpan, w-ith a pint of rich gravy, a pound of sausages, and three or four slices of ham or bacon ; cover the stewpan down close; set it on a moderate fire, let it stand half an hour, then uncover it; skim off the fat, shake in some flour, put in two spoonsful of vinegar, and cover it up ; set it on again, and let it stew four or five minutes longer; take out the sausages, and pour the rest over them. Cabbage (Red) Syrup of.—Cut and wash a large red cabbage, put it into a stewpan and boil it in water three or four hours, till there remains no more than a pint of liquor; put the cabbage into a sieve, squeezing it till your have expressed all the juice; let it settle, and pour it off clear; then put a pound of Narbonne honey into a saucepan, with a glass of water; let it boil, skimming it often; wdien the honey is very clear put it in the cabbage juice, and boil them together till of the consistence of syrup, like all others. Cabbage Salad.—Boil a Savoy cabbage in waiter; drain, and dress it as you would a salad, with salt, pepper, some Provence oil, and vinegar, adding one or two ancho- vies, and a few capers : it may be served either hot or cold. Cabbage Soup.—Put into your pot a few pounds of sliced beef and bits of ham ; let it catch a little, then add weak broth or water, and all sorts of roots, a cabbage tied and well scalded, a bit of pickled pork, and a bay leaf. If you would garnish this soup with any wild fowl, boil it in the same pot, and garnish the tureen with the cabbage and the pickled pork, cut in pieces. Cabbage Soup.—Cut your cabbage into four parts ; then let them be about three quarters enough boiled in water; then take them up and squeeze them dry from the water; then place them in a large brass pan or dish, so that there may be room be- twixt each pieco of cabbage to take up soup with a large spoon, then lot them boil up with as much gravy or stock as will cover them. Let them stew for two hours before dinner, then put a quarter of a pound of butter, aud a handful of flour.CAB CAB 96 into a saucepan, set it over tlie fire, and keep it stirring; add two onions minced, and stir it again ; then add a quart of veal gravy, hoil it a little, and pour it all over the cabbage. If you choose, you may force pigeons, with good forced meat made of veal, fry them, and then stew them with the cabbage, putting in with them a little bacon, stuck with cloves. When it has stewed enough, take off the fat, soak bread in your dish with gravy or stock, place your fowl in the middle, and the cabbage all round. Garnish the dish with slices of bacon, and a little cabbage between each slice. Cabbage Soup.—Boil some rashers of streaked bacon about two hours, in the quantity of water you require for soup; then add some cabbages previously blanch- ed, and if you like, some sausages ; pep- per and salt the soup, but take care to put very little salt, on account of the bacon. Skim well before you put in the cabbages. Cabbage Soup, with Currots and Onions.* •—Line a stewpan with lards of bacon, then blanch a cabbage in boiling water, let it drain, then cut it into quarters, and put it into the stewpan, w'itli some carrots and onions cut in slices, moisten with soup meagre; when sufficiently done, dress it on a dish, and serve. Cabbage (German) Soup.—Cut in small pieces and wash the heart of a fine cab- bage, and set it over a slow fire in a little butter. When the pieces begin to feel tender, and the butter is a little reduced, add some stock and veal gravy, in equal quantities ; skim carefully, and when the soup has become of a brown colour, throw in little round and thin pieces of crust of rolls; season to your taste, and serve. Cabbage (Stewed).—Cut a cabbage into slips, blanch and drain them dry, and stew them in a stewpan, with a bit oi fresh but- ter, pepper, salt, an onion, some vinegar, half a pint of veal broth, and a little all- spice, tied in a cloth, till done, and the liquor nearly reduced, and then take the Bpice and onion out, and serve it. Cabbage (Stewed).*—Blanch two mid- dling-sized cabbages in water with a little salt ■’when they have been twenty mi- nutes in the boiling water, take them out and put them into cold water, then let them drain ; after this take out theirhearts; then cut very small halt a pound ot veal, and half a pound of bacon : some salt, whole pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and allspice, all well pounded ; then add the yolks of seven or eight eggs, and mix the whole well together, with the veal and bacon ; put some of this stuffing into each of your cabbages (in the place of the hearts), and tie them up with packthread. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and slices of veal, a little ham, three carrots, four onions, a little thyme, a bay leaf, and two cloves ; then put in the cabbages, cover them with bacon, and moisten with stock, adding a little salt and pepper ; let the whole simmer for an hour and a half, then let them drain on a napkin, and ex- tract the gravy from them by gently press- ing them ; then untie and arrange them on a dish ; glaze them, and serve a Spanish sauce all over them. If you do not hap- pen to have any Spanish sauce ready, make a light roux, and moisten it with the liquor in which your cabbages were dressed, and strain it through a silk sieve, and then pour it over the cabbages. Cabbage stewed a l’Espagnole.—Take six cabbages and boil them well; when done, drain them on a sieve, tie each separately with packthread, and lay them between lards of fat bacon with some good braise, to stew very gently : take them out of the braise, and lay them in a line upon a clean cloth; cut off the packthread, and roll the cabbages tight up in the cloth for a minute or two; then open the cloth and cut the cabbages in pieces, about six inches in length, and lay them on the dish ; have a sauce a l’Espagnole ready', with a bit of but- ter mixed in it, and one squeeze of lemon ; this sauce when very' hot pour over the cabbages, and serve it to table. Cabbage stewed in this way is very good, and proper to garnish stewed beef of any' kind, sometimes with other vegetables inter- mixed. Cabbage (Stuffed).—Blanch a large Sa- voy cabbage, and then put between its leaves some forcemeat, made of any' cold meat y'ou have in the house, adding an equal quantity of sausage, some pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a small hand- ful of boiled rice. IV hen yTou have put into the cabbage as much stuffing as it will contain, tie it well up with packthread. Next, make a roux with some butter, flour, and stock, properly' seasoned; heat up the cabbage in this, being careful that it does not break. Keep adding stock from time to time, so that the cabbage may be alwavs covered. \Y hen it is perfectly done, serve it in a deep dish in its soup. Cabbage en Surprise.*—Take a good whole cabbage, and, having boiled it a quarter of an hour, put it into cold water,CAK CAK 97 and squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves; then carefully take out the heart, and supply the place with parboiled chestnuts and sausages, replacing the leaves in such a manner as to conceal what is within; tie the cabbage with pack- thread, and stew it with some stock, a little salt, and coarse pepper, roots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. YVhen done, drain, and serve with a good butter sauce. CAKE, Anglo-Franfais.*—Prepare your ingredients the same as described in the receipt for Cake a la Parisienne; then add a quarter of a pound of dry currants, well washed, four ounces of muscadel raisins, one ounce of preserved cedrat, cut into small strips, one ounce of candied orange, cut in the same manner, and a glass of Spanish wine, or a glass of rum; mix the whole well together, and finish the same as for Cake a la Parisienne, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is very good eaten cold, but is much nicer cut into rather thin slices, and just browned by broiling, then placed upon a dish and masked all over with pow- dered sugar. Cake (Bolar).*—One pound of flour | dried in a slow oven, two spoonsful of | yeast, some almond milk, and water to mix j for a sponge; when raised, beat up three quarters of a pound of clarified butter, I three eggs, and three quarters of a pound of sugar, well beaten till the spoon comes . clean away; then add cinnamon powder, j candied orange and lemon. Bake in earthen 1 basins, well buttered ; keep it before the I fire till put in the oven. ^AKE (Bolar').*—When the sponge is beat, as for the last, instead of mixing the i sugar, it is rolled in the sugar and cin- j namon. Cake (Dutch Bolar).*—Done, as above, ' without sugar; then prick holes with a sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot I pour in three quarters of a pound of clari- I fled sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or orange flower. Almonds and sweetmeats ! are previously put in the cake. Orna- ment your cake with harlequin su<rar- I plums. ° This was a favourite cake of the late Queen Charlotte. Cake de Botirneville.—Work about half : a pound of flour, with five or six eggs whole, some fine chopped lemon peel, a I Jew drops of orange-flower water, a spoon- julof plain water, and a little salt; then | Jot it rest about an hour; you will put | aoout as much butter as paste, and work it afterwards well together; bake it in a mould or hoop, and garidsh as you think proper, with sugar, nonpareils, or colours. Cake (Bread), common.—Take the quan- tity of a quartern loaf from the dough when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. i it v •> '•— 11 lJUU“u ana a half of butter into half a peck of flour, three pounds of currants, half a pound of sugar a quarter of an ounce of mace, cinnamon’ and nutmeg together, a little salt, a pint and a half of warmed cream or milk, a quarter of a pint of brandy, five eggs, a pint of good ale yeast; mix it wefl to- gether; bake it in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good for a quarter of a year. Cake (Bride).—Take four pounds of fine flour well dried, four pounds of fresh butter, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the same quantity of nutmegs - to every pound of flour put eight e°-o-s - wash and pick four pounds of currants,°and dry them before the fire ; blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthwise, very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy ; first work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your sugar a quarter of an hour; beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong froth ; mix them with your su-ar and butter ; beat the yolks half an hour°at least, and mix them with your cake ; then putin your flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keen beating it till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, and beat the currants and al- monds lightly in; tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of your hoops to keep it irom running out ; rub it well with butter put in your cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, with cake between every lay after it is risen and coloured, cover it with paper before your oven is stopped up ; it 'v ill take three hours baking. Cake it la Brie.*—Take some rich Brio cheese knead it with a pint and half of Hour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and a little salt; moisten it with five or six eggs beaten up ; when it is well kneaded, HCAK CAK 98 let it stand for an hour; then form your cake and bake as usual. Cake (Chantilly), or Cahe Trifle.—Bake a rice cake in a mould ; when cold, cut it round, about two inches from the edge, ■with a sharp knife, taking care not to per- forate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of raspberry jam, and then put on ft high whip. Cake de Cumpie^ne.— Ihe same paste as for brioches, only keep it more liquid with some hot milk; put in a few stoned raisins and currants, Ibis cake is made in a mould well trimmed with buttei. Cakes (Dry)•—Bub one pound of butter into one pound of flour, one pound of sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked all jiight in orange-flower or rose water) whip to snow the whites of eight eggs, beat the yolks of six with a little brandy, mix this very well; butter the pans, only half fill them ; they are baked in halt an hour ; a brisk, not a scorching oven ; they will keep half a year. If agreeable, make them with currants, put three quarters of a Lakes' (Dutch).—Take five pounds of flour, two ounces of caraway seeds, halt a pound of sugar, and somethingmore than a pint of milk ; put into it three quarters of a pound of butter ; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put m a pint of good ale yeast; pour in the butter and mills, and make these into a paste, letting it stand a quarter of an hour before the fire to rise ; then mould and roll it into cakes, pretty thin ; prick them all over, or they will blister, and bake them a quarter of an L°Cake (Family).—Take rice and wheat flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump Su°-ar, pounded and sifted, and halt an ounce of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the same tune in a quick oven. This is a very light cake and is very proper for young people and delicate stomachs. „ Cake (Fashion).—Mix a handful of flour with a pint of good cream, half a ponndof beef suet, melted and sifted, a q^terofa pound of powder sugar, half a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, dried floneis of orange, a glass of brandy, n little cori- ander, and salt; bake it as all other cakes, about an hour, and glaze or garnish it. Cakes made of Flowers-—Boil double re- fined sugar to a candy height and strew in your flowers and let them bod once up : then, with your band, lightly strew in a little double-refined sugar sifted, and put it directly into little pans made of card, and pricked full of holes at the bottom ; you must set the pans on a cushion, and when they are cold, take them out. Cake a la Franfaise.*—Take a quart of sifted flour, make a sponge, add toit one ounce of salt, two ounces of sugar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs; mix the whole well together, work up your paste ; if it is too stiff, moisten it with a little milk ; leave it to stand for half an hour, then add to it half a pound of butter, and give it four turns, the same as a puff paste ; put your cake into a mould, lay it very thick, cut the edges in form of a lo- zenge, gild it, put it upon a baking-tin, ornament it, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Cakes (Gum).—'Take gum dragon, let it lie all night in rose water, till it is dis- solved ; have double-refined sugar, beaten and seared, and mix your gum and sugar together ; make it up into a paste, then roll some up plain, and some with herbs and flowers ; all the paste must be kept se- parately, the herbs and flowers must be beat small before you make them into paste; but you may use the juice of the flowers and herbs only; sweet maijoram, red roses, marigolds, cloves, gilliflowers, and bluebottle berries, all clipped from the white; when you have made all your colours ready, have to every one a little rollingpin and a knife, or else the co- lours will mix; first lay a white, and then a colour, then a white again, for two colours will not do well; so roll them up, and cut them die bigness of a sixpence, but in what form you please, minding that they are rolled very thin. Cakes (Hart).—With your hand work a pound of butter to a cream, then put to it twelve eggs, with only six of the whiter well beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound of sifted sugar, four spoonsful of good brandy, and a pound of currants washed and dried before the fire. As the pans are filled, put in two ounces of candied orange nnd citron, and continue beating the cake till you put it into the oven. This quantity will be sufficient to fill three doaen of mid- dling-sized pans. Cakes (Honeycomb).-—Boil your sugar to a candy height; then put in your flowers, which must bo cut ; have little papers with four corners ready; drop some of vour candy on the papers, take them off when ready, and if they are rightlyCAK 99 CAIC done, they will look full of holes like honeycombs. Cakes (Hyde Park).—Take two pounds of flour, four ounces of common sugar, and halt’an ounce of caraway seeds pounded; then set a sponge with half a gill of yeast and a little warm milk; when it works, tako some boiling milk, add to it five ounces of fresh butter, mix it up light, and let it lie some time ; then roll it out, cut it into any form, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cakes (Liquorice).—Take hyssop and red rose water, of each half a pint, half a pound of green liquorice, the outside scraped off, and then heat with a pestle ; put to it half a pound of aniseeds, and steep it all night in the water; boil it with Ji gentle fire till the taste is well out of the liquorice; strain it, put to it three pounds of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle fire till it is come to the thickness of cream; take it off, and put to it half a pound of white sugarcandy seared very fine; heat this well together for at leas"t three hours, and never suffer it to stand still ; as you heat it, you must strew in douhle-refined sugar finely seared, at least three pounds; half an hour before it is finished, put in half a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in orange-flower water: when it is very white then it is beat enough; roll it up with white sugar; and if you want it perfumed, put in a pastil or two. Cakes (Little).*—To a pound of flour dried, add a pound of lump sugar rolled very fine, the peel of two lemons chopped small, and five ounces of butter; mix them thoroughly; let it stand some time before the fire, then add three eggs well beaten, the whites separately, pick them with a fork into small lumps, and bake tlicm on a tin: this quantity will make about eighty cakes. Instead of lemon- peel you may, if you please, add sixty bitter almonds blanched and beaten with white of egg until they are quite fine. Cakes (Little Short).—Rub into a pound f dned flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of white powder sugar, one e°-o• and a spoonful or two of thin crennTto make it into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut them out, and hake on tins. of rlone Pound of dried flour, half a pound of fine sugar • ed, one ounce of caraway seeds, a lit- yolkTof'tf anfl poum!fid, mace i beat the i s ot two eggs with three spoonsful of sack; put these to the rest, with half a pound of butter melted in a little thin cream, or new milk; work all together, roll it out thin, cut it into cakes with tin or glass; bake them on tins; a little baking does in a slack oven. Cakes (Little White).—Dry half a pound or flour, rub into it a. very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one eo-o-, a fe(T caraways, and as much milk ami’water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it out with a tin cutter. Bake fifteen minutes on tin plates. Cake en Lnsange.*■—Make a puff paste • roll it out to tlie thickness of half a fino-er - cut it in lozenges the width of two fingers’ and gild over the cake with the yolk of an egg well beaten; hake them for a full quarter of an hour in an oven, then glaze them with sugar and a salamander. Cake a la Madeleine.—Take the same weight of flower, sugar, butter, and eggs. In general eight eggs are sufficient for an entremet; put in a little salt and the rasped peel of a lemon; work this paste a little till you have put all the butter into it. Melt a little butter in a stewpan, and skim it well; pour a little into each dariole. mould, and then drain it, leaving, how- ever, a drop at the bottom to facilitate the coming out of the cake. Sift some ashes over a baking sheet, put the small moulds into it, and then put paste into each of them, about half the depth, to give it room to rise. Bake them in a moderate oven When done, turn them out on a clean sheet of paper, and put them again into the oven for a few minutes. By chan vino- c tIle m0llld y°u produce a dish ot a different appearance; and by occa- sionally emptying the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity either cream or sweetmeats you make what is called Cakes a la Madeleine 1’aretes. Cakes a la Manon.*— Form some puff paste into an under crust, and cover some baking-plates with it; then spread all over them some frangipane, or marmalade, of whatever sort you please; add some sweet- meat, ancl then cover with a very thin crust; gild and ornament them, then put them in the oven; when they are three parts done, sprinkle them with su-mr and finish h }Yhen.they are Sbazod puMfiem to finish baking m a more gentle oven, and When done take them out of the tins, and serve them either hot or cold. Cakes (Maudling).-—Take a quarter of a peck of flour, well dried before tho fire, n 2CAK CAK 100 and two pounds of mutton suet, fried and strained clear off, and when it is a little cool, mix it well with the flour, some salt, and a very little allspice beat fine; take half a pint of water, stir it well together, strain it, and mix up your flour into a paste of a moderate stiffness; you must add as much cold water as will make the paste of a right order, and make it into cakes about the thickness and bigness of an oat cake ; have ready some currants clean washed and picked, strew some in the middle of your cakes, between the dough, so that none can be seen till the cake is broke. You may leave the currants out if you do not choose them. Cake Meat.—Cut the fillet from the in- side of the rump of beef into small pieces, also lean veal, and pound them very fine in a marble mortar. Then add a little lemon juice, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, basil, thyme, mushrooms, savoiy, and shalots, but only a small quantity of each; some beaten spices, and a sufficient quan- tity of yolks of eggs to bind it. Then add, and mix with your hands, some fat bacon and lean of ham cut into dice. T hen line a stewpan or mould with bards of fat bacon, fill it with the mixture, press it down ; put on the top bay leaves, and a little rhenish wine, cover it with bards of fat bacon, and bake it thoroughly m a moderate oven. When it is cold, turn it out of the mould, trim it clean, set it on a dish, put chopped savory jelly round it, and a small modelled figure on the top; or the whole of the cake may be mo- delled. Cake (Meat).*—Your cake should be named after the meat or game you make use of. They are all made alike, except when you make them of game, you mix with the game an equal quantity of but- cher’s meat. Tor a mutton cake, take a ]e<r of mutton, skin, and take off all the meat- mince it with a little beef suet, add to it a pound of bacon cut into dice, the yolks of six eggs, salt and ground spices, half a class of brandy, some champignons, shalots” parsley, and green onions chopped fine Put some thin slices of bacon in a stewpan, and the mutton forcemeat upon them, well mixed and seasoned; let it stew at least three hours ; when done, and cool, turn it out on a dish; let the slices of bacon which will be found to adhere to the mutton, remain ; scrape them lightly with a knife, and serve tlio mutton cake on a napkin placed in a dish. Cakes de NiauJ)hs.-M«ke a good puff paste, roll it pretty thick, and cut it into lozenges about the bigness of the palm of your hand; brush it over with yolks of eggs beat up, and strew macaroni-drops powder over them, with a little powder of orange flowers, and lemon peel chopped very fine ; stick bits of scalded sweet al- monds in the paste, pointed upwards, cover them with paper in the oven, to keep them of a palish colour. Cake a Nouille*—Make some pate a Nouitle with the yolks of six eggs; when, it is well mixed, add to it four glasses of boiling cream, in which you have previ- ously put eight ounces of butter. Let it boil for a few minutes, then add six ounces of sugar, having the zest of an orange grated over it; stir the whole well toge- ther, and then place it for half an hour over warm ashes, that the nouilles may swell and become firm; then add the yolks of eight eggs, and some salt to give it con- sistence ; then pour it into a buttered mould, and let it bake for two hours in a moderate oven. Cake (Nuns).—Take four pounds of very fine flour and mix with it three pounds of bouble-refined sugar, finely beat and sifted; dry them by the fire till your other materials are prepared; take tour pounds of butter, beat it in your hands till it is very soft like cream; beat thirty-four eggs, leave out sixteen whites, and take out the treads from all; beat the eggs and butter together till it appears like butter, pour in four or five spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, and beat it again; then take your flour and sugar with six ounces of caraway seeds; strew it in by degrees, beating it up all the while, for two hours together; put in as much tinc- ture of cinnamon, or ambergris, as you please; butter your hoop, and let it stand three hours in a moderate oven. Cake a la Parisienne.*—Take one pound and a half of finely-sifted flour, make a sponge; then add four drachms of fine salt, two ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four eggs, one pound and a quarter of fine butter, "and a glass of cream ; mix the whole well together, spread it out thin, and strew it over with vanilla chopped very small; then mix the whole well to- gether again, after which mould your cake; finish with paper bands, &c., the same as for all other cakes, and ornament it accord- ing to vour own tanev. Then- let it bake for two hours and a half, or three hours, m a brisk oven. This cake should be eaten >pold.CAK 101 CAK Cakes (Pepper).—Take a gill of sack, and a quarter of an ounce of whole white pepper, put it in, and boil them together for a quarter of an hour; then strain out the pepper, and put in as much double- refined sugar as will make it like a paste ; then drop it in what shape you please, on a tin plate, and let it dry itself. Cake (Plum).—Three pounds of flour, three pounds of currants, three quarters of a pound of almonds, blanched and beat grossly, about half an ounce of them bitter, four ounces of sugar, seven yolks and six whites of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of butter, half a pint of good ale yeast; mix the eggs and the yeast together, strain them ; set the cream on the fire, melt the butter in it ; stir in the almonds, and half a pint of sack, part of which ' should be put to the almonds while beat- ing ; mix together the flour, currants, and sugar, what nutmegs, cloves, and mace are liked : stir these to the cream : put in the yeast. Cake (avery finerich Plain).—Takefour pounds of the finest flour well dried and sifted, six pounds of the best fresh butter, seven pounds of currants well washed, picked, and rubbed very clean and dry; i two pounds of Jordan almonds, blanched . and beat in a marble mortar, with sack and orange-flower water, till they are very fine ; take four pounds of eggs, leave out half the whites, and add three pounds of double- refined sugar, beat and sifted through a lawn sieve, with mace, cloves and cinna- mon, of each a quarter of an ounce; three large nutmegs beat fine, a little ginger; of sack and brandy half a pint each, sweet- meats to your liking, lemon and citron; take a large broad pan, beat the butter to a cream before any of your ingredients go in, minding to beat it all one way, or it Tvill turn to oil; put in the sugar, beat it Well, and work in your almonds; let your eggs be well beat, put in, and beat all together till it looks white and thick ; put m the brandy, sack, and spices, and shake your flour in by degrees ; when your oven ts ready, put in the currants and sweet- meats, and put it into your hoop : it will take four hours baking in a quick oven. Note. As you mix it for the oven, you must be mindful to keep beating it all the time with your hand ; and your currants, «s soon as cleaned, must be put in a dish ■ before the fire, that they may be warm when mixed. The above quantity bakes best in two hoops. Cake (a common Plum).—Take three pounds of flour, a little ale yeast, a pint of milk, a pound of sugar, a pound of butter, and a little allspice; make it into dough before you put in the plums, and work in as many as you please. Cake (Plum) a la Campagne.*—Take four pints of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, put into it one ounce of fine salt, two pounds of butter, six eggs, and three glasses of water, beat up the butter with the eggs, the salt and the water; then mix the flour with the butter, mix up jmur paste lightly, and give it four turns with the rollingpin, the same as in making puff paste; after this working up, form your cake, sprinkling the table with flour, place it upon a pan, press it down till it is about three inches thick; then surround the cake with a band of stout paper, and to prevent the paste from extending, place over the firsthand of paper several smaller ones, wetted with the yolk of egg beaten up ; place these bands of paper half upon the cake and half on the pan. Your cake being thus prepared, gild it, and with the point of a knife, describe upon it all sorts of figures according to your taste. Put it into a quick oven, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is better cold than hot. Cake (Plum) a la Vanille.*—Take a pint and a half of flour ; make a hole in the middle, put in it six drachms of sugar grated very fine, three drachms of white salt, the yolks of three eggs, a pound of butter, and a glass of good cream, and stir up the same as for Plum Cake d la Cam- pagne ; spread your paste out very thin - sprinkle it with a piece of vanille grated very fine, then form your cake, and proceed the same as for Plum Cake a la Campagne. 1 his cake must not be eaten until it ia quite cold. T ou may make in the same manner aa the preceding, plum cakes with citron grated and put into bags, and sprinkled over the paste, also chocolate, coffee, &c. Cakes d la Polonaise.*—Take some puff paste, and form it into a crust, one quar- ter of an inch thick ; cut it into square pieces, moisten the surface of them, and gather up the four corners of each, and press them together; have ready some small round moulds, dip them in warm water, and put them through the middle of the cakes ; then put them in the oven ; tvlien they are three parts done, take them out, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; then let them finish baking; whea102 CAK CAK done, take out the moulds, and fill them with whatever sweetmeats you think proper. Cakes d la Portvgaise*—Blanch and pound half a pound of almonds ; mix with them die juice of three oranges with their peel very finely chopped up; put this preparation into a pan, and add to it some powdered sugar, two ounces of very fine flour, and the jrnlks of six eggs, heat up the whites, and mix them also with the other ingredients; then take a long mould, or paper case, hutter it, and put in your preparation; let it bake in a moderate oven ; when done, cut them into small 6quares or lozenges: glaze them, and put them into a stove to dry. Cake (Portuguese).*—Made the same as pound cake, only add a pound ol clarified butter, almonds, currants, &c. Cakes (Portugal).— Two pounds of flour, the same of hutter, sugar, and cur- rants, nine yolks of eggs, four whites; mix these with a little brandy; butter the pans, and bake them in a pretty hot oven. Cake (Pound).—To a pound of sifted sugar, add a pound of fresh butter, and mix them with the hand ten minutes; put to them nine yolks and five whites oi eggs well beaten; whisk all well, and add a pound of sifted flour, a few caraway seeds, a quarter of a pound of candied orange peel cut into slices, a few currants washed and picked, and mix all together as light as possible. _ Cakes (Queen).—Beat one pound of butter to cream, with some rose water, one pound of flour dried, one pound oi sifted sugar, twelve eggs ; beat all well together : add a few currants washed and dried : butter small pans of a size for the purpose, grate sugar over them; they are soon baked. They may be done in a Dutch oven. Cakes d la Peine.*—Blanch and pound one pound of sweet almonds ; add a pound of sugar, a handful of crisp orange flowers, and the whites of four eggs ; mix the whole well together; then mould your cakes into what form you please ; place them on tins, and let them bake in a moderate oven ; mask them the same as Gciwisa glacte d VItalienne, and ornament them according to your taste. Cake de Posquelle.— lake half a pound of sweet almonds, with a few bitter ones, blanch and pick them, then pound them very fine, and when nearly pounded enough, put in about halt a pound ot Lisbon sugar by degrees; when the whole is well | blended, take it out of the mortar. Then j have some put!'paste rolled out very thin, roll out your almonds in lengths, as long as the paste is broad, which lay upon the j paste, and turn the end over ; lightly egg j it to join it together ; then with the jig- | ging-iron cut it across, each about three I inches long; put them in the oven, and j when nearly done, glaze them the same as i other pastry. Cakes (Pout Drop).—Mix two pounds I of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto sugar, | one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then | wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, a ; large spoonful of oi'ange-flower water, ditto L rose water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy • drop on a tin plate floured; a very short time bakes them. Cake d la Doyale.*—Put a very little lemon peel, shred fine, into a stewpan, with two ounces of sugar, a small pinch of salt, a piece of butter half the size oi an egg, a glass of water, and four or five spoonsful of flour; stir over the fire till the paste becomes thick, and begins to adhere to the stewpan; then take it off, put in an egg, and stir it in the paste till it is well mixed ; continue to add one egg at a i time, till the paste softens without becom- ing liquid ; then put in some dried orange flowers, and two bitter-almond biscuits, the whole shred fine ; make the paste into little cakes, about the size round of a half- | crown; put them on buttered paper, gild them with the yolk of an egg beat up, and bake half an hour in an oven moderately hot. Cakes, Saffron.—Take a quarter of a peck of flour, a pound and a half of butter, three ounces of caraway seeds, and six eggs; beat a quarter of an ounce of cloves and mace together very fine, a little cin- namon, beat a pound ot sugar, a little rose water, ditto of saffron, a pint and a halt of yeast, and a quart of milk ; mix all together lightly, with your bauds, thus : first bou the milk and butter, skim off the butter, and mix it with the flour, and a little of the milk, stir die yeast into the rest, and strain it; mix it with the flour, put in your seed, spice, rose water, tincture of saffron, sugar, and eggs; beat all up with your bauds very lightly, and bake it in a hoop or pan, minding to butter the pan well; i will take on hour and a half in a quicK oven ; you may leave out the seeds it ) oa please. Cakes eggs in (Savoy)*—Put fourteen whole one side of a pair of scales, an10S CAK CAIv their weight in fine sugar on the other side ; take out the sugar, and seven of the .eggs, and balance the remaining seven with line flour, then put the flour aside, break the eggs, putting the yolks apart from the whites, add to the yolks the sugar you have weighed, a little grated lemon peel, and some chopped dried orange flowers; beat them all up together for half an hour ; then whip the whites of the eggs, put the flour you have weighed to them, then gradually mix the whole together, stirring the ingre- dients with the whisk as you mix them. Have ready a mould ; butter it well with oiled butter, and throw into it a mixture of fine flower and very fine powder sugar; I move the mould lightly round, so as to have all parts equally covered, then turn it upside down, put the cake in it, and set it in an oven moderately hot, a full hour and a half; when done, turn it carefully out upon a dish ; if it is of a fine golden colour, serve it simply, but if it is of too deep a colour, ice it with very fine sugar, the white of an egg, and the juice of half a lemon, beat well together with a wooden spoon, till the icing is very white ; the .cake should not be served until the ice is perfectly dry. Cake (Seed).*—Take a pound of lump sugar, well beaten and sifted, twelve ounces of flour, well dried, two ounces of caraway seeds, eight eggs, beat them well, then put in your sugar, beat them first well together, then add your flour and caraways. Beat them all well together; but your cake, but not too much ; then bake it. Cake (Seed).—Put a pound and a half of flour to half a pound of fresh butter, broke into small pieces, and likewise a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and ■half a grated nutmeg; make a hole in the centre ot the flour, and set a sponge with a gill of yeast, and a little milk; when well risen, add slices of candied orange or lemon peel, and an egg beaten up. ■Mix all well together, with a little warm »»lk, of a proper stiffness, mould it into a cake, prove it in a warm place, and l bake it. Cake (a rich Seed').—Take five pounds . ot fine flour, well dried, and four pounds [ 0*i single-refined sugar, beat and sift- , mix these together, and sift them through a hair sieve; then wash four ' pounds of butter in eight spoonsful of ' rose or orange-flower water, and wash the outter with your hands till it is like cream; eat twenty yolks and ten whites of eggs' ; an(i Put t0 them six spoonsful of sack; put in the flour a little at a time, and keep stirring it with your hand all tho time; you must not begin mixing it till the oven •is almost hot, and after it is mixed let it stand some time before you put it into the hoop ; when you are ready to put it in the oven, put to it eight ounces of candied orange peel sliced, with as much citron, and a pound and a half of caraway com- fits, mix them well, and put it into the hoop; it must be a quick oven, and two or three hours will be sufficient to bake the cake; after which you may ice it if you please. Cake (a small rich Seed).—Break four- teen eggs into a copper pan, whisk them ten minutes ; then take one pound of but- ter, and rub it well with your hand to a cream ; put one pound of powdered sugar to the eggs, and whisk them over the fire three minutes, then whisk them till they are cold, afterwards mix them with the butter with your hand as light as you can; put two or three handsful of caraway seeds in, and some sweet almonds cut; and a little cinnamon and mace; mix one pound and a quarter of flour, as light as you can with your hand ; put three papers inside your hoop, and lour or five at bottom, and let your oven be rather brisk ; when you find your cake has risen, and the oven too hot at the top, cover it with a sheet of paper, and itwill be done in about an hour and a half, or two hours at furthest. Cake (common Seed).*—One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter ot a pound of sugar, a few cara- ways, a pint of milk, a spoonful of yeast, mixed well together; let it stand a long time before the fire, then put it in the oven. Cake (a Pound Seed).■—Take a pound of flour, one pound of fine powder sugar, one pound of butter, eight yolks, and four whites of eggs, as much caraway seeds as you like; first beat up the butter to a cream with your hands, then by degrees beat in your eggs, sugar, and flour, till it goes into the oven ; bake it in a quick oven, and it will take an hour and a quarter baking. Cakes (Shrewsbury).—Having beat half a pound ot butter to a cream, put in half a pound of flour, an egg, six ounces of loaf sugar, beaten and sifted, half an ounce of caraway seeds, mixed into a paste, and roll them in. Cut them round with little tins, or a small glass, prick them, lay them on sheets of tin, and buke them in a slow oven.CAL CAIC 104 Cakes (Shrewsbury).—Take a pound of butter, and put it in a little flat pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, then take one pound of powdered sugar, a little cinna- mon and mace pounded, and four eggs, yolks and whites together ; beat them with your hand till it is very light; then take one pound and a half of sifted flour, work it together, and roll it on your dresser, to what size you like, only very flat, let your oven be rather slow, and let them change their colour, then take them out. Cakes (small).—Rub well together half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, and three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, then wet it with a gill of boil- ing milk, strew in a few caraway seeds, and let it lie till the next day; when moulded, and cut into six score pieces, roll them as thin as possible, and bake them in an oven three parts cold. Cakes (Spanish').*—One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one pound of eggs, leaving out one third of the whites; put them into moulds, and bake them in a slow oven. Cake (Sponge).—Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of six in flour; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. Cakes (Twelfth).—Make a cavity in the centre of six pounds of flour, set a sponge with a gill and a half of yeast, and a little warm milk; put round it a pound of fresh butter, in small lumps, a pound and a quarter of sifted sugar, four pounds and a half of currants, half an ounce of sifted cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pounded cloves, mace, and nutmegmixed, and sliced candied orange and lemon peel, and citron. When risen, mix all well together with a little warm milk; have the hoops well prepared and buttered, and fill them with the mixture, and bake them. When nearly cold, ice them over with sugar, as per re- ceipt, or they may be quite plain. Cake en Turban.—This is the same composition as Turk’s Cap, with ice cream, only baked in small moulds, ribbed or twisted in the same manner as the largo ones, and served in their natural colour. Cakes (Water, with Caraway Seeds).— Take three pounds of powdered sugar, and four pounds of sifted flour, mix the flour and sugar together on a clean dresser, with half water and half whites of eggs, and as many caraway seeds as you think proper; i | mix all together, so as to make a very fine I paste, that you can roll it on the dresser, : | and the thinner the better; cut out the shape you like with a tin cutter; round j and scalloped is the most common, but i vary the shape to your own fancy, roll 1 them very thin, and they will be the crisper, for if they are not crisp, they are not worth eating; put them on a sheet of paper, and put them into rather a slow oven, and if you think it too hot, put as |i many sheets of paper as you think fit, to prevent them from being burnt, bake them very little, so as just to change the colour ; of them, and butter the sheet of paper you i put them on, that they may come off easily. Cakes (Yeast).—Take a pound of flour, i two pounds of currants, washed and picked, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of a pound of citron and candied ) orange peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, a small quantity of each pounded and sifted. Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, put in a gill of sweet wine, a little warm milk, mix all together, fill a hoop with it, let it remain till it rises, and bake it. Cakes (Yorkshire).—Take two pounds I of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonsful of yeast, and two eggs ; i beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead it, and make it into cakes ; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is shorter, the last lighter. CALF’S Brains in Aspic.*—Prepare your brains as for poeUes. Put some luke- warm aspic into a mould, lay it about an inch thick, let it cool and congeal, and then having cut the brains into four parts, | place them on the aspic in a thin layer, and pour on them a sufficient quantity of nearly cold aspic to fill the mould, and place it in ice. When properly set, and it is wanted for table, heat a cloth, and rub your mould with it until the jelly quits the side; or dip the mould into warm water; turn it out with great care, and if any pieces of tho jelly should be spilled on the dish, suck them up by means of a reed. Calf’s Brains h V Allcmande*—f leanse the brains thoroughly ; divide them into four lengths, trim, and put them into s stewpan^ lined with bacou, moisten with105 CAL CAL white wine and consommd, add parsley, green onions, and slices of lemon, without the seeds and peel. Cover them with bacon and buttered paper ; cook them over a stove ; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them sauce allemande. Calf’s Brains in Black Butter.—Clean, soak, and blanch three or four calves’ brains ; put them into a saucepan full of boiling water, with a little salt and half a glass of vinegar; let them remain in this till cold, which will make them firm. Cook them in a good marinade for three quarters of an hour, and when ready to serve, pour some black butter into the dish, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains au Blanc-mange.*—When the brains are well cleansed and soaked, place them on two slices of bacon, and two of lemon, in a stewpan, with a glass of stock. When sufficiently done, take them out, and when cool, cut them in strips, and pour over them white sauce, cream boiled with yolks of eggs, or any other cream sauce you please. Calf’s Brains breaded *—Prepare them as for plain boiling, soak them for two hours in vinegar : take them out, and roll them in eggs beaten to a thick snow, cover them with bread crumbs, and either broil or fry them. Calf's Brains (Coquilles of).*—Cut some calf’s brains into twelve pieces, and put into a saucepan mushrooms and truf- fles, tossed up in a little white wine • re- duce them to jelly, and then add two spoonsful of allemande, and one of veloute ; boil these, and put to them a little butter, parsley, and lemon juice, put in the brains, mix them altogether, and put them into scallop shells, cover them with bread crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese, pour a little melted butter over, and brown them. Calf’s Brains and Crayfish.*—Boil the brains in a little stock, drain, and place them on a dish, so that the end of eacli piece may meet in the middle. Take the tails and claws from as many crayfish as you please, and place one between each piece of the brain. Put one in the middle, ivith the tail and claws on. Pour over the brains either butter of crayfish or tomata sauce. Calf’s Brains, Crdpinelles of*—Divide six boiled calves’ brains each in half - cut a dozen large onions into dice, scald’ and boil them with a bit of butter, salt) garlic pepper, nutmeg, and bay leaf; when done, put in two ladiesful ot veloute, reduce the whole to the consistence of butter, and then add the yolks of four eggs, and a piece of butter, wrap each half brain in this, and surround it with a pork caul. Dress and serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Calf’s Brains, Cromesquis of.—Cut the brains, a veal sweetbread, a dozen mush- rooms, and four truffles, into dice ; put the two latter into some allemande, and re- duce it, then add the brains and sweet- bread, and a little nutmeg; stir them to- gether, and set them to cool. Mould them in pieces about the size of a little finger; take some cold calf’s udder, and cut it into thin slices, and lay a roll on each, and wrap it up ; dip them in batter, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains fried.* — Prepare and dress the brains as for pot.Ices, then cut them into six pieces, and put them into a basin, with salt, pepper, and vinegar, till just before they are wanted, when they should be drained ; put them into batter and fry them; drain them again, and place them on a dish round a pyramid of fried parsley. Calf’s Bruins in Jelly*—Put some aspic jelly into a plain round mould, and set it in ice ; and as soon as the jelly is well set, turn it on the table-dish, which must be placed over pounded ice ; put on the jelly a whole calfs brain, cover it en- tirely with iced Montpellier butter (see the Recipe) ; on this lay three more brains boiled very white ; ornament the top with pieces of jelly, and garnish your dish with a border of jelly or coloured butter, and serve. Calf’s Brains d la Magnonnaise.* — Cleanse and soak five calves’ brains in cold water for some hours ; drain and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt and half a glass of tarragon vinegar; take out the brains carefully, and put them in a pan of cold water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the brains, and on them sliced lemons ; cover the whole with bacon and buttered paper; add a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions stuck with cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the brains; when it boils, set the stewpan by the sido of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour; let the brains cool in their liquor and then drain them on a napkin ; divide each brain in half, trim and place them en couronne on the table-dish ; garnish them with a border of jelly, and in the spaces between each half brain, lay aCAL CAL 106 crescent of jelly cut with a paste-cutter, two inches and a half in diameter. Pour into the centre of the crown a sauce mag- nonnuise, either white, or u. La ravigotte, and serve. Calf’s Brains en Matelotte*—Take the brains from two calves’ heads, cleanse them well, and stew them with white wine, stock, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. In the mean time make a ragout of small onions, roots with stock, and sweet herbs; season it well, thicken it with cullis, and pour this round the brains. Calf’s Brains au Naturel.*■—Take the brains from two calves’ heads, clean and soak them in warm water; boil them in good stock, or consomme. Serve either cold or warm. Calf’s Brains, with Oysters*—Blanch and clean the brains, then wipe them dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll them in bread crumbs ; fry them in boiling lard till of a good colour, drain them very dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham cut in small round pieces. Calf’s Brains, Pasty of.—Cleanse and scald the brains, then blanch some aspara- gus tops with a little parsley and butter; when cold, put them into the pasties, with the yolks of six hard eggs and some force- meat ; put them into the oven, and when done, lift up the upper crust, squeeze in a little lemon juice, butter and gravy. Calf’s Brains poelees*—Take three calves’ brains, remove the skin and fibres from them, and soak them for two hours ; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt and. vinegar in it; blanch the brains in this for a quarter of an hour, and then put them into cold wa- ter. Line a stewpan with bacon, lay in the brains, cover them with bacon, and pour over the whole a sufficient quantity of broth to stew them. Calf’s Brains a la Pr oven f ale.*—Pre- pare your calves’ brains as for po'clecs, and having blanched them, boil them in a ma- rinade of nouilles, white wine, garlic, and olives; when done, drain and let them cool; cut the brains in half, trim and dish them in the form of a crown, and serve with sauce mayonnaise, either green or white. Calf’s Brains au Rdveil.—Prepare and bruise any number of calves’ brains; make a batter with cullis, butter, and mustard ; buthe the brains in it, and strew over bread crumbs and cheese. Colour them with a salamander or in the oven. Serve them on cullis and mustard. 'They may also be broiled slowly, and served with relishing sauce. Calf’s Brains, Salad of.*—Prepare and dress calf's brains as for la maguonnuise; place them also en couronne, on a bed of lettuce, cut small and dressed as usual; garnish each piece of the brains with let- tuce, and arrange a border of eg'gs, lettuce hearts, and anchovies cut in slips. When about to serve it, pour over the brains, or into the middle of them a sauce magnon- naise a la ravigotte. Calf’s Brains with different Sauces.— Brains braised in broth and wine may be used with what sauce or ragout you please, such as fat livers, pigeons, sausages, onions, capers, fried bread. See. Cxc. from which they generally take the name. Calf’s Brains au SoleiL*—Cleanse two calves’ brains, and stew them instock with two or three spoonsful of vinegar, a bunch ■of parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic, three cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil; when sufficiently stewed, cut each piece of the brain in two, dip them in a batter made of two handsful of hour, diluted with a little oil, half a pint of white wine, and salt. Fry them in lard until the bat- ter is crisp and the brains of a good co- lour. Calf’s Chaudron a VAllemande.—Make a gratia with Swiss cheese rasped, bread crumbs, two yolks of eggs, and a little cullis ; place it in a table-dish over hot ashes, that it may catch at the bottom; then put in a chaudron, boiled, cleared of the fat, cut in pieces, and previously mix- ed with sauce Robert. Garnish the dish with small onions boiled in broth, and bits of bread fried in butter ; pour on it a little butter melted with a spoonful of mustard. Strew bread crumbs and grated cheese, and colour it in die oven; wipe the dish free from fat, and serve with clear relish- ing sauce. Calf’s Chaudron and Anchovies*—Melt some butter in a stewpan, and toss up in it some small onions sliced; add a little Stock or veal broth; put into this the chaudron properly prepared, and cut in pieces with salt, pepper, tarragon, and herbs. When they are flavoured, pour them into a buttered mould, and place on them six anchovies washed and split in four pieces, in the forms of crosses. Co- ver the whole with caul, and bake it in a moderate oven. Calf’s Chaudron and Cheese.*—loss upCAL 107 CAL the chaudron with a bit of butter, and some small onions with half a glass of stock. Cut some gruyere cheese into thin slices, melt it, and baste it with veal gravy i mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs; pour over this the chaudron and sauce, and brown it. Calf’s Chaudron fricassee.—Parboil a calf s chaudron, and when cold, cut it in pieces about as big as walnuts ; season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg', cloves, ) mace, an onion, tarragon, and parsley, . shred fine; fry them in a ladleful of good broth and fresh butter; make a sauce of mutton gravy, orange and lemon juice, ■eggs’ yolks, and grated nutmeg ; toss up I these ingredients with the chaudron, then | dish it and serve. Calf’s Chaudron Fritters.*■—Cook a pre- { pared chaudron with salt, parsley, scal- I lions, garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and two or three cloves. When sufficiently done, drain it, and clear away the fat, cut it small, and marinade it an hour in but- ter ; two spoonsful of vinegar, parsley, scallions, shalots (all minced), salt, and pepper ; warm the marinade, then take out the chaudron,and roll them up by degrees, making the herbs, &c. stick to them ; dip them in egg, bread, and fry them. Calf’s Chaudron, cl la Mariniere*— When the chaudron is prepared, cut it in Strips about three fingers long; soak them m stock, seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, and vinegar, over hot ashes; dip them in batter made of flour, yolks of eggs, and white wine, and fry them. Calf’s Chaudron Pie.—Make a ragout with a chaudron (previously boiled), mushrooms, parsley, shalots, garlick, a i glass of white wine, and cullis. A'Vhen quite done, cut the chaudron in slices, and put it with the sauce into a baked pull crust; skim the fat off, add pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Calf’s Chaudron a, la Prnvenfale.—Soak it well in lukewarm water to cleanse it thoroughly ; boil it in stock, then cut it in pieces and let it cool. Make a sauce with good stock, two spoonsful of oil, salt, ' pepper, garlic, dried mushrooms cut small; do these together, and when of a proper consistence, put the chaudron in i for about ten minutes. When done, add I lemon juice. Calf’s Chaudron Pudding*—Prepare : your chaudron, and cut into small pieces 1 the size of a nut; season with salt, pep. I Per, tarragon, scallions, spices, and pork Jut cut small; you may add some godioeau and the crumb of bread boiled in milk and beaten up with yolks of eggs. Soften some caul in warm water, lay them open on the table, and fill them with the above mixture; form them to any shape you please, and bake them; when crisp, they are ready to serve. Pour on them blond or veal gravy. Calf’s Chitterlings.—Choose some of the largest calves’ nuts, and having cleansed them, cut them in pieces, of whatever lengths you may think proper, and tie one end of each piece. Blanch a calf’s chaudron, and cut it into dice, with a calf’s udder and some bacon; put them into a stewpan with half a pint of cream, pounded spice, bay leaf, shalot, pepper, and salt, toss them up, take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs and some bread crumbs ; keep it warm and fill the chitterlings with it; tie up the other end and boil them, let them cool in their own liquor. When wanted, boil them over a moderate fire. Calf’s Chitterlings.—Cut into dice, some bacon, a calf’s udder, and the fat that comes from the chitterlings and calf's chaudron ; put them all into a stewpan with a bay leaf, salt, pepper, shalot cut small, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, with half a pint of milk, let it just simmer ; take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs, and some crumbs of bread ; fill the chitterlings with this mix- ture,, which must be kept warm, and make the links like hogs’-puddings. Before they are sent to table, boil them over a mo- derate fire; let them cool in their own liquor. Calf’s Chitterlings stewed.— Cut a calf’s nut lengthwise, in slices about an inch wide; take some ham, bacon, and white part of chickens, and cut them in the same way; put them into a stewpan with salt, peppei-, sweet herbs, and spice; then, having cleansed the guts, cut and tie them, fill them with the slices ; line a stewpan with shoes of bacon and veal, pepper, salt, bay- leaf, and an onion, lay in the chitterlings, cover them with bacon and veal, pour in a pint of white wine, put the lid down quite close, and stew them with fire, above and below, for some time ; then take out the puddings, and broil them in buttered papers. Calf’s Ears braised *—Scald, blanch, and clean the ears thoroughly from the hair, and braise them in the following way: But some good stock into a small sauce- pan, with half a pint of white wine, half a108 CAL CAL lemon sliced (without the peel) a hunch of street herbs, salt, and some roots ; stew the ears in this, and cover them with bacon. When done, serve with sauce piquante, or a la ravigotte. Calf’s Ears, and Cheese*—Prepare half a dozen ears, and boil them with half a glass of white wine, double the quantity of good stock, salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, garlic, two cloves, half a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and a bit of butter. As soon as they are done, take out the ears and let them drain. Make a stuffing with a handful of dried bread crumbs, half a pint of milk, and a little gruyere cheese, grated ; stir them over the fire until they thicken. When cold, add a little butter and the yolks of four raw eggs ; beat up all toge- ther, and fill the ears, and dip them into hot butter. Cover them with equal quan- tities of bread crumbs and grated cheese mixed together; place them in a dish, and brown them. Serve without sauce. Calf’s Ears a VItalxenne*—Scald, &c. the calfs’ ears, and boil them in flour and water, then put them into a stewpan, lined with bacon, a hunch of sweet herbs, sliced lemon, moisten with equal parts of stock and white wine. Cover the whole with buttered pepper; boil them slowly for an hour and a half; drain, trim, and place them in a dish, with sauce a I'ltulienne. Calf’s Ears in Marinade.*—When you have prepared the number of ears you re- quire, boil them in some blanc, and then throw them into cold water. When well drained, cut each ear into three or four pieces, put them into pickle made with vinegar, salt, and a bag of herbs; drain them again, and dip each piece into bat- ter, and fry of a good colour. Before you place them in a dish, they must be drained a third time. Garnish with fried parsley. Calf’s Ears in Pease.—IVhen you have properly prepared four ears, cook them in a little clear stock, lemon juice, salt, pep- per, a bunch of parsley, cloves, garlic, and a laurel leaf. When done, serve them with a ragout of pease, prepared as follows : Put a pint and a half of peas with a bit of butter, a little parsley, and green onions, and a pinch of flour, moisten with grnvy and stock into a saucepan, over a gentle fire until sufficiently done ; put in a lump of sugar about the size of a walnut, a little salt, and a spoonful of cullis; pour tho whole over tho ears. Galt's Ears, II a gout of, with Mushrooms.* Preparo and dress the ears the same as for V lialienne, and when done, drain and place them on your dish, for table. Trim, and toss up some mushrooms in butter, to which add four large spoonsful of velouti, and the same of consomme, reduce this to half; thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and pour it over the ears. Calf’s Eurs stuffed*—Scald two or j three pair of calves’ ears, and having blanched, cool and singe them ; fill each 1 ear with a good stuffing, press it in well ; dip the ears in egg, cover them with I bread crumbs, fry them of a nice brown; serve with clear gravy. Calf’s Eyes.— Clear away all the im- proper parts, blanch and cook them in a braise, made with white wine, stock, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. "When done they may be served with any kind of sauce you please. You may also fry them with breadcrumbs, &c. Calf’s Feet Blanc-mange.—Pick all the black spots from two boiled feet, slice them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of Mountain wine, and rather more water; let them stew gently; add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, with a quarter of a pint of cream and a little flour, a little lemon peel and juice, sweeten with fine sugar, strain it into a dish. When nearly cold, stick on the top some jar raisins, scalded to make them plump, almonds blanched and cut into slips, citron, lemon and orange peel sliced. It may be put in a basin; when cold turn it out. Calf’s Feet plain, boiled *—Clean and skin the feet well; take out the large bones, I boil till tender, and serve with salt, pep- per, vinegar, and sweet herbs. Calf’s Feet Broth.—Boil the feet in as much water as will make a good jelly, then strain, and set the liquor on the fire agaiit with a little mace in it; put about half a pint of sack to two quarts of the broth; add half a pound of currants ; beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix them with a little of the cold liquor, and thicken carefully over a slow fire; put in a little salt, and then sweeten to your taste; stir in a small piece of butter, and just before you take it off, put to it the juice and peel of a fresh lemon. " Calf’s Feet fried.*—Divide four calves’ feet each in half, and boil them in flour and water. Then soak them in butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, vine- gar, garlic, shalot, parsley, green onions, thyme, and laurel. After they have laid some hours in this, take them out, coverCAL CAL 109 them well with flour, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Feet and Chaudron a V Italienne* —Make a stuffing with the crumb of a small loaf, a pound of suet, an onion, parsley, pepper, salt, garlic, and eight or ten eggs; put this into the chaudron, aud tie it up. Put the feet into a deep stew- pan, over a slow fire, till the hones are loose, then put in two quarts of green peas, and add the yolks of two eggs, and the juice of a lemon, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, onion, parsley, and garlic. Put the chaudron in the middle of your dish, and the calf’s feet round. Garnish with fried suckers, and sliced onions. Calf’s 'Feet Jelly.—Take the fat and bones from eight calves’ feet, and soak them in water for three or four hours; I then boil them in six quarts of water, skimming often; when reduced to a third, strain and set it by to cool; when cold, take every particle of fat from the top, and remove whatever may have settled at the bottom. Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up the whites of twelve eggs with three pounds of fine sugar, mix : these with the jelly, boil it gently, adding I the juice of two lemons, and then strain it j for use. Another way.—Boil four quarts of water ' with three call’s feet, till half wasted; | ta^e the jelly from the fat and sediment, | and mix with it the juice of a Seville orange and twelve lemons, the peels of three, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, sugar to taste, about a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, and a bit of cinnamon. Boil it a quarter of an hour | without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. While running, take a little 1 of the jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of i water, in which beet root has been boiled, 1 run tliis through the bag when all the , rest is done, this forms a garnish for the other. ^.ALF’S Feet Jelly.—Wash and set on the fire in cold water, four calf’s feet, observ- ing, when they begin to boil, to skim it Well; set them by the side of a hot stove to boil gently for several hours ; when all ! bones are separated, pass the liquor j through a silk sieve, into a large basin or | pan; when cold, and a jelly, take all the I at from the top, wipe it well off with I Paper, that not the least particle remain, then set it on the fire again to boil; skim it well, take it off, and let it stand while you beat up the whites of six eggs in a large stewpan, to which put a very small bit of lemon peel, and the juice of four lemons, clarified sugar to sweeten to your taste, and a bottle ot bucellas wine • mix them well together, and examine the’jelly that no fat may remain : if there should, take it off the fire, and pour it in the stewpan, with the wine and other thin°-s- set it on the fire and continue stirring it till it boils, and let it boil very gently for half an hour. Have your jelly-bag washed very clean, place it in the stand over a large basin, and when the jelly is ready, run it through several times, till it looks clear and bright; when all is through, set it over the fire once more till you see a white scum rise, skim that off, and when the jelly begins to boil it is ready to put into mould. You may garnish your jelly as you fill it up, with different kinds of fruit, &c. placed in the mould. Calf’s Feet Pie.—Boil the feet in three quarts of water, with three or four blades of mace, gently, till reduced to half, then take out the feet and drain them. Lay a good crust in a dish, and when you have boned the feet, put half the meat in it, strew over half a pound of currants, and half a pound of raisins stoned ; lay on the rest of the meat, skim the liquor they are boiled in, sweeten and add to it half a pint of white wine. Pour all into a dish, cover it with crust, and bake it an hour and a half. Calf’s Feet a la Paulette *—Bone the feet, and when boiled, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, mushrooms, parsley, green onions, garlic, shalots, laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and cloves. Warm them over the fire; put in a little flour, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, season with salt and pepper. Boil it for half an hour over a gentle fire, when reduced to half, take out the herbs and add the yolks of three eggs diluted with a spoonful of vinegar, and one of stock. Thicken without boiling it, and serve quick. Calf s Feet a la Provenfale *— Soak some boiled calf’s feet in a little olive oil, lemon juice, and a glass of good stock' stew them over a slow fire until quite tender. Then work up a little butter and flour, and do it over the fire to colour, then put in the feet, add a pounded anchovy, and some more lemon juice, boil all to- gether a quarter of an hour, aud serve very hot.CAL CAL 110 Caw’s Feel Pudding.—Mince a pound, of calf's feet fiue, first, taking out the fat and the brown, mix with it a pound and a half of shred suet, the crumb of a small roll grated, the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs well beaten, sufficient milk to moisten it, and sugar to your taste. Boil it nine hours; serve with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. Calf’s Feet roasted.—Blanch and boil the feet till tender, then let them cool. When cold, lard them with small pieces of bacon, tie them on a spit and roast them with a sauce made of butter, vinegar, and cinnamon, beaten up thick. Calf’s Feel Farces en SoleiL.—Prepare the calf’s feet, take out the bone as far as the joint, 'and stew them. When done, set them to drain. 1 hen take a little/arce fine, leaving out the eggs, and stuff the middle of each foot, making them as round as you can ; dip them first into an omelet, seasoned with pepper and salt, and then twice into bread crumbs, and fry them of a fine brown. Garnish with fried parsley veiy green, and send up with them brown sharp sauce. Calf’s Feet stewed.—Divide each foot into four pieces, put them to stew with half a pint of water, with a potatoe, an onion (peeled, and sliced thin) pepper, and salt, simmer these ingredients for two hours gently. Calf’s Head.—Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender, then strew it over with bread crumbs and parsley chopped, and brown it. Serve with bacon and greens. Boil the brains, and mix them with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt; lay them on a dish, and the tongue in the middle. Calf’s Head a la Bourgeoise.’*—Cleanse and scald a fine calf’s head, skin it care- fully, then take out the brains, tongue, and eyes, and cut the cheeks from the bones ; make a forcemeat with the brains, some fillet of veal, beef suet, salt, pepper, shred parsley, green onions, thyme, basil, halt a bay leaf, two spoonsful’ of brandy and three eggs. Then parboil the tongue, eyes (having removed the black part), and the cheeks, hash them, and put them, with the forcemeat into the skin which was taken from the head, sew it up, and shape it to its natural form ; put it in a vessel just large enough to hold it, with halt a pint of white wine, a pint of stock, parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, pepper and salt. Stew it gently for three hours, drain off tker fat and dry it, and take out the thread. Strain the liquor it was stewed in, and add to it some cullis and a little vinegar, re- duce it and pour it over the head. Serve it on a napkin. This may be brought to table cold; it must then be stewed with more white wine, and less stock. Calf’s Head collared.—Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil tender enough to remove the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, well mixed; season it high with these; put a thick layer of parsley, then a quantity of thick slices of ham, or a fine coloured tongue skinned, and the yolks of six eggs stuck about in it. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can, put a cloth round, and tie it with tape. Boil, and then lay a weight on it. Calf’s Head collared like Braion.—Scald the head till the hair comes clean off, then cut it in two, and take out the brains and eyes. Wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till the bones come out. Slice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even. Throw a handful of salt on them, and roll it up quite close, as other collars. Boil it two hours. When cold lay it in a brawn pickle. Calf’s Head d la Detiller.*—Take a very delicate calfs head; bone, soak, and blanch it; take out the brains, and let them soak also ; boil in a blanc for three quarters of an hour. W hen the head is cold, dry it in a cloth, singe, and cut it in pieces, leaving the eyes and ears whole ; collect the pieces and tie them so that they keep the original shape, rub it with lemon, and boil it for three hours in a blanc ; then take it out, untie and dish it, place the brains at each end of the dish, and cut the tongue into square pieces the size ot dice, and put them into a sauce made as follows: Put a ladleful of espagnole, half a bottle of white wine, six allspice bruised, and six spoonsful of consomme, reduce these to half, and then put in the pieces of tongue, some mushrooms and gherkins cut into little sticks; pour this sauce over the bead. . Calf’s Head, the Dutch 11 ay.—Lay half a pound of Spanish peas in water for twelve hours: then mix them with a pound of whole rice, and having put a calfs head, properly prepared, into a deep dish, lay the peas and rice round it; pour twoCAL 111 CAL quarts of water over, season it with pepper and salt, colour it with saffron, and bake it. Calf’s Head, old Fashion. — Boil the head till the tongue will peel; then divide the head, and cut the meat from one half into pieces the size of oysters (setting the brains aside) and stew them in strong gravy, and a quarter of a pint of claret, a ' lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little sliced onion and nutmeg; stew these tender. In the mean time slash the other half head, wash it over with yolks of eggs, ; strew over it grated bread, sweet herbs, and lemon peel, and broil it; when dona i lay it on a dish, and having added to the stewed meat a pint of cullis, three ancho- i vies, mushrooms, capers, butter, and a i pint of stewed oysters, pour them round ' the broiled head. Garnish it with the i tongue cut into thin round slices, the l brains in cakes, bacon, oysters, and force- meat balls, all nicely fried; barberries and horseradish laid on the edge of the i dish, and serve it up. Calf’s Head fried.*—Cut a cold calf’s I head into middling-sized pieces, and put into a jar; pour on them a marinade; when they have thoroughly imbibed the I flavour, drain them, dip each piece in I batter, and fry them. Do not let the oil or lard they are fried in be too hot. Calf’s Head, German Way.—Take a large calf’s head, with great part of the neck cut with it; split it in half, blanch it, ' and take out the jaw-bone. Lay slices of l bacon at the bottom of the stewpan, then i thin beef-steaks, with pepper and salt; put in the head, pour beef gravy over it; add a large onion, stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it close, and let it stew on a stove. Make a ragout, with a quart of beef gravy, half a pint of 1 red wine, some sweetbreads parboiled, and cut into slices, some cock’s combs, oysters, mushrooms, truffles and morels; stew them . . teilder. When the head is done, put it in a dish, take out the brains, the eyes, | and the bones; slit the tongue, cut it into 8m,dl pieces, do the same with the eyes and chop the brains: put these into a a lung-dish, and pour some of the ragout O' or them ; then put the head, and pour 1 >e rest of the ragout over it, and melted nutter, and over that, scraped Parmesan ieese. Colour it a lino brown in the oven. Calf’s Head hashed.—Boil the head al- most enough, and take the meat of the best aule neatly from the bone, and lay it in a mall dish; wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, ;ill mixed together previously. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turn- ing it now and then, that all parts may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the remainder of the head, and the tongue (peeled) ; put a pint ot good gravy into a pan, with an onion, asmall bunch of herbs, (consisting of parsley, basil, savory, tarra- gon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt and cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor ; boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. Add some fresh or pickled mush- rooms, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketchup ; beat up half the brains, and put them to the rest, with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg ; fry this in little cakes of a fine gold colour; dip some oysters into the yoik of an egg, and fry the same way, also some good forcemeat balls, and garnish the dish with them. Calf’s Head a. la Sainte Menehoult.*— Take out the jaws and cut off the snout close to the eyes ; put it in a stewpan over tlie fire, and when you have skimmed it quite clean, add to it parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, salt, and pepper. When done, take out the bones that are over the brains, place it on a dish, with the following sauce: Mix a a piece of butter, the size of an egg, with some flour, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs> two spoonsful of vinegar, and half a glass of stock ; thicken these over the fire. When this is done, pour it on the head, cover it with bread crumbs, baste it with butter; brown it with a salamander; drain the fat from it, and serve with sauce pi- quante. Calf s Head Pie.—-Strew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a little isinglass, or a calf’s foot, a bunch of herbs, mace, salt, and pepper, in three pints ot water: keep this, when very good, to put in the pie. Half boil a head, and cut it into square bits ; put alayerof ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first lat and then lean, with forcemeat balls and hard eggs, cut in half, then ham, and so on, till the dish be full; the pieces must not be too close; season to your taste, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pour in some of the abovementioned broth, and cover itCAL 112 CAL with crust; bake it in a slow oven ; and when done, pour into it as much broth as it will possibly hold, and do not cut it till quite cold. This pie may he eaten hot, if seasoned high, and with the addition of mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c. Calf’s Head d la Poivrade.—Bone a scalded head as far as the eyes, and boil it with some pickled pork, both of which, when done, must he served in the same dish: boil half a glass of vinegar, the same of stock, chopped slialots, and whole onions ; strain it, and add pepper and salt: pour this over the head, and serve with sauce a la poivrade. Calf’s Head a. la Poulette*—Toss up some sweet herbs in a little butter, then add to them a little stock, salt, and pepper ; boil these a quarter of an hour : having cut a calf s head in pieces, as for frying ; put them into the sauce, and boil them slowly, till hot; just before serving, put in two or three eggs, and stir it till thick; be careful not tolet it boil after the eggs are added. Serve with a little lemon juice or vinegar. Calf’s Head au Putts Certain.*—Take the meat from a calf’s head, leaving on thd- eyes and the brains ; soak it well \ take off the end of the snout, the cheek-bones, and those of the tongue ; put the head into cold water ; and when it has boiled once, take it off, drain, and cool it. Cut the meat into round pieces, the size of a crown piece (leave the tongue and ears whole), rub each bit with lemon, and boil them in a blanc, wrap the bones in a cloth, and put that in also; in proper time take it out, drain and lay it on a plate : open the head, clean the brain, and fill it with some quenelles of veal, mixed with mushrooms, sweetbreads, and truffles, cut in dice ; ar- range this stuffing so as to make the head its original form ; wrap it in a pig s caul, and bake it. When done, place it in the middle of a dish, with the ears and pieces of tongue round. Serve it with a good Jinan- ciere, with crayfish, and pimento butter. Calf’s Head roasted.—Cleanse the head well; bone, and dry it. Wake a sea- soning of pepper, salt, beaten mace, nut- meg, cloves, some fat bacon, cut very small, and grated ; strew it over the head, roll it up, skewer, and tie it with tape. Roast and baste it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour; you may add mushrooms and oysters. Serve the head with this sauce. Calf’s Head roasted with Oysters.—Pre- pare a head as for boiling; take out the tongue and brains, parboil them; blanch the tongue, and mince both with a little sage, beef suet or marrow, a few oysters, four or five egg yolks beaten, salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg, and grated bread ; parboil and dry the head ; fill the skull and mouth with the above ingredients, and oysters, tie it up, and roast it ; preserve its gravy, and put it, with some white wine, nutmeg, oysters, and sweet herbs minced, over a chafing-dish ; add butter, lemon juice and salt, beat it up thick ; dish the head, and serve it with the sauce over it. Calf’s Head soused.—Scald and bone a calf’s head, and soak it for seven or eight hours, changing the water twice; dry it well. Season with salt and bruised garlic; roll it up, bind it very tight, and boil it in white wine, salt, and water ; when done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and keep it for use. Serve up either whole or in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. Calf’s Head stewed.*—IV ash a calf’s head perfectly clean for an hour, in water, and then bone it with the greatest care; take out the tongue and eyes ; chop up two pounds of veal, and the same of beef suet, thyme, lemon peel, and two ancho- vies, with a nutmeg, and two stale rolls grated; mix these together, with the yolks of four eggs, a pint of fresh mushrooms, the yolks of six eggs chopped, and half a pint of stewed oysters ; put this forcemeat into the head, close, and tie it up tight. Put it into • a stewpan, with two quarts of gravy, and a little mace ; cover the pan close, and let it stew for two hours. In the mean time, beat up the brains with shred parsley, lemon peel, half a nutmeg grated, and the yolk of an egg; fry halt these in little cakes, with the forcemeat balls, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy the head was boiled in, and boil it with half an ounce of truffles and morels, and a few mushrooms ; add the remainder of the brains, stew all together for a minute or two, then pour it over the head, and lay the fried brains and forcemeat balls round ; fry a few oysters, and place them on the head. Garnish with lemon. Calf's Head stuffed.*—Bone a calfs head with great care, let the eyes remain in their proper places ; soak it, and then ha- ving blanched it, lay it in cold water; drv and singe it. Make some godivean, and when about three parts done, put in tno spoonsful of reduced reloute, and rather more spice, shred parsley, and slialots, thanCAL 3 IS CAL usual. Fill the head with this, and press it into its original form, sew it up, and rub it all over with lemon. Take a clean fine cloth, spread thin slices of bacon over it, lay the head in them; wrap the cloth round, and tie it up tight. Put it into a braising- pan, take a bit of butter, some grated bacon, four caiTOts, five onions, three cloves, three hay leaves, a little thyme, two lemons sliced, leaving out the seeds and the white; do these over the fire, and when they become dry, moisten them with two bottles of white wine : add salt and pepper ; boil this sauce, and put it into the braising- pan with the head, which should simmer for three hours, with fire above and below; at the end of that time feel the head with your finger, and if it be still firm, let it re- main some time longer; when sufficiently done, take it out by the ends of the cloth, untie, and let it drain. Dish it, and pour on it the following ragout: Put four ladies- ful of grande espagnole, a bottle of white I' wine, and two ladiesful of consomme into a * saucepan, and reduce them to half, then J strain it into another saucepan, in which ; are some balls of godiveuu, artichokes cooked into a hlanc, mushrooms, sweet- breads cut in pieces, and crayfish ; keep this hot until the head should be sent to table, when the. ragout must be poured over it, or strain the liquor from the head, and ! make a sauce from that. Calf’s Head Surprise.—Raise the skin, and as much meat as you can from a calf’s head; make a forcemeat as follows : Beat up in a mortar half a pound of veal, a pound of beef suet, half a pound of fat bacon, the crumb of a small loaf, sweet herbs, shred parsley, cloves, nutmeg, mace, salt, and Cayenne pepper ; bind these to- gether with the yolks of four eggs ; stuff the skin with this, so that it may appear as if the bones were in ; tie and skewer it tight, and put it into a deep pan, with two quarts 0f water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two spoonsful of walnut and mushroom ketchup, the same of lemon pickle, ' salt, and pepper; cover the whole with a common paste, and bake it in a quick oven. I When done, lay the head in a soup-dish ; ■ take the fat from the gravy, and strain it mtoastewpan; add to it a bit of butter, rolled tn flour, and when it has boiled a few minutes, the yolks of four eggs, and half a pint of cream ; pour this over the head. Garnish with boiled forcemeat balls, truffles I Morels, and mushrooms. Calf s Head au Verd Galant.—Soak the head twenty-four hours, bone and scald it in boiling water; then boil it in vinegar and water, with roots, herbs, and spices ; cutit in pieces, roll it in batter made of oil, white wine, salt, and parsley, and fry of a good colour, and crisp. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Heart roasted.—Fill the heart with the following forcemeat: A quarter of a pound of beef suet, chopped small, orated bread, parsley, maijoram, lemon°peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Lay a veal caul, or a sheet of paper on the stuffing to keep it in its place. Put the heart into a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn it frequently, till thoroughly roasted all round. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour melted butter over it. Calf’s Liver en Balottes.*—Mince and season a calf s liver. Soak a calf’s caul or chaudron in hot water till soft, and then cut it into small square pieces, in each of which put some of the minced liver, about equal to the size of a hen’s egg ; draw up the corners of the caul, and make them into balls. Wash them over with white of egg 5 strew bread crumbs over, and broil them. Calf’s Liver d la Bourgeoise *—Cut a calf’s liver into slices, and put it into a pan with some chopped shalots, a bit of butter, salt, and pepper ; stew it gently. 'When ready to serve, put in a spoonful of vineo-ar. Calf’s Liver d la Bourgeoise.—Cut a calf’s liver in slices, and put it in a stew- pan, with shalot, parsley, and green onions, cut small, and a piece of butter - shake it over the fire, and dredge in a little flour : moisten with a tumblerful of water, and as much of white wine, salt, and pepper ; boil it for half an hour. When quite done, and the sauce nearly con- sumed, put in the yolks of three eo-o-s previously beaten with two spoonsful of vinegar; thicken it over the fire, and serve. Ibid. Third way.—Lard a calf’s liver ■with bacon, previously rolled in shred parsley, salt, and pepper. Make a sauce with some butter, flour, stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few carrots, rind of bacon pepper, and salt. Boil this for two hours' and then put in the liver, with a glass of red wine ; another hour will do it. Strain the sauce over it before you serve. Calf’s Liver ilia Braise.*—LardacalFs liver with bacon, seasoned with garlic, fine herbs, salt, and pepper. Put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of water.CAL CAL 114 some slices of bacon, part of a calf’s foot, a bunch of parsley, onions, thyme, and buy leaves, salt, pepper, and spices, an onion Btuck with cloves, and half a glass of wine. Cover the stewpan perfectly close. When it begins to boil, cover the fire with hot ashes, and let the liver continue stewing gently by it for three or four hours. Strain off the fat, and strain the sauce. Serve cold, in its own jelly. Calf’s Liver a la Brochette*—Cut a calf’s liver into slices, about the size of a crown piece, cut some bacon in the same .manner; place them alternately (begin- ning with the bacon) on skewers, seven or eight inches long. Dip them into hot broth or soup ; sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and broil them of a gold colour. Calf’s Liver broiled.—Slice it, season 'with pepperand salt, and broil nicely: rub a •bitof cold butter onit, andservehotand hot. Calf’s Liver Cuke*—Mince and pound together a calf’s liver, half a pound of Buet, and half a pound of bacon ; then mis them with some chopped onions and mush- rooms, tossed up in butter, the yolks of six eggs, the whites well whisked, salt, .pepper, and a glass of brandy. Line an iron saucepan with slices of bacon, place the above preparation, and some sliced •truffles on them, and cover the whole with .bacon ; put the saucepan on a gentle fire, with ashes on the lid. When done, take it off, let it cool in the saucepan. Dip it in boiling water, loosen the cake, turn, it •on a dish, and remove the bacon from it; sprinkle it with raspings, and serve it. Calf’s Liver Cake cold.* — Pound a •calf’s liver, an equal quantity of bacon, and a fourth part of boiled ham; pass them through a quenelles sieve, into a pan with a cold boiled calf’s udder, an equal pro- portion of tongue a Vicariate, truffles, and mushrooms, cut into dice : mix with them ei°Lt eggs, a glass of brandy, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Finish your cake os above, and bake it four hours in a moderate oven. Let it cool before you turn it out; remove the bacon, trim and glaze tho cake with veal jolly ; with which garnish your cake. Calf’s Liver Cake hot.*—Pound a calf’s liver, and an equal quantity of calf s udder, as above, put them into a pan ; cut some onion into dice, scald and toss it up in a little butter and consomme, and when cold, mix it with tho liver, udder, mushrooms, truffles, and more udder cut in dice; stir in ei^ht eggs, one at a time; the whole being well mixed, put it into a plain round mould, well buttered, cover it with a round I piece of buttered paper, and let it stand in a bain-marie with hot ashes under and over, for two hours. When ready to serve, turn it on the dish for table, drain away the water, glaze it. Serve it hot, with a pepper sauce. Calf’s Liver en Cripine*—Cut two large onions into dice, and toss them over the fire with a bit of butter, mince a calf’s liver, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; then put them into a mortar, with the onions, some dried bread crumbs, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, mush- room, four yolks of eggs, and four whites, whipped; pound these together well. Place slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, and over them a pig’s caul, previously soaked in cold water, squeezed quite dry with the hand; put all the pounded ma- terials in this, wet the edges with white of egg to make them unite ; place a sheet of paper over it, and cover the pan close ; stew it gently in hot cinders for half an hour, then drain the fat from it, wipe the caul carefully with a linen cloth, and then II place it in 'your dish : serve with clear sauce, adding to it a little veijuice. Calf’s Liver a la Pique*—Lard a fine calf’s liver, and soak it in white wine for a day. Line a stewpan with thin slices of bacon and beef; put in salt, pepper, fine herbs, spices, sliced onions, carrots, par- snips, scallions, parsley chopped; put the liver on this, and cover it in the same man- ner ; moisten it with stock, aud two glasses of white wine; you may add slices of le- mon, stew it gently, with fire above and below. When done, serve with it gher- kins, a ragout of cucumbers, or endive. Calf’s Liver Haslets.—Cut the liver in prettv large pieces, marinate it with butter, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, chopped; leave it some time over a very slow fire, then roll several pieces in veal caul, with as much sauce as possible: tie it upon a large skewer, with thin slices of bacon round, and roast. Serve it with any re- lishing sauce. Calf’s Liver a I’ltaliemw.*—Cut a calf S liver in thin slices, with parsley, scallions, mushrooms, half a clove ot garlic, two 1 slinlots, all chopped fine, half a bay leaf, thyme, and basil pounded. Put a layer ot th6 liver at the bottom of a stewpan, then salt, pepper, oil, and some of the above sea soiling, then another laver o* liver, season as before, and so on till you have usee a vour liver. Stow it for about an hour, and then take it out with a skimmer;CAL 115 CAL clear array the fat from the sauce, and put in a bit of butter, and a little verjuice or vinegar, thicken it over the fire, stirring- it constantly. Put the liver into this to heat it again, and then serve. Calf’s Liver ii la Mariniere.*—Cut a calf’s liver into thick slices, brown them in a pan with a little butter; turn them that both sides may be well coloured; then add pepper, salt, tarragon, and herbs; dredge flour over them, and moisten with wine: boil it a few minutes, and place it on a very hot dish. Garnish with mush- rooms, truffles, and morels or capers. . Calf s Liver en Poupee.*—Prepare the |iver as for en Balottes, only form them into balls the size of a walnut; flatten them to the thickness of half an inch, wash them with white of egg-, and bread them. Put them on skewers like haslets, with bacon between. Roast or bake a quarter of an hour. SAL^'S Liver Puddings.—Cut part of a call’s liver into dice, mince the rest with hog s fat (one third more), season with salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, cinnamon and cloves pounded, and sweet herbs ; bind them with the yolks of six eggs, and a quart of cream : put them into skins, like black puddings, and boil them over a slow fire in white wine, with salt and bayleaves • let tnem cool in this liquor, and when wanted,, broil, and serve them very hot. . C*LF’S Liver roasted.—Wash and wipe it; then cut a long- hole in it, and stuff’ it " , crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg ; sew the liver up; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, and roast it. Serve with good brown gravy and currant jelly. 6 y Jivother way.*—Lard a calf’s liver with Streaky bacon; roast and baste it fre- quently with its own gravy. Third way.* Lard a fine calf’s liver, and pickle it in vinegar, with an onion cut into slices, parsley, salt, pepper, thyme, • nd a bay leaf. W lien it has been soaked for twenty-four hours, fasten it on a spit, loast, and baste it frequently. Glaze it ?Y , a light glaze, as it is naturally of a hack colour. Serve under it a brown poiv rude. Calf’s Liver Sausages.—These are made m the same way as other sausages. The moat used gives the name. . Calf’s LiverSautd.*—Cut a calf’s liver '•I slices, about a quarter of an inch thick, and make each slice of an oval form ; when us prepared, season them with salt, pop- per, spices, and sweet herbs; put half a pound of butter into your saute-pan and warm it, then lay in your liver, and as soon as one side is brown, turn it and do tlie other; when all are clone, put them into a saucepan, take the butter from the pan, and put into it a glass of Champagne, four ladiesful of espagnole, reduce them to halt, strain it over your liver, and heat (without boiling) the whole together. Dish the liver en couronne, and pour the sauce over. Calf’s Liver scalloped.—Take a very mce white liver, cut it in slices, pared in the shape of hearts. Then stew some fine herbs, parsley, slialots, and mush- rooms, for a little time ; toss up the liver in it, over a gentle fire, season it, and when done on one side, turn it on the other. Dish the liver; put a little flour with the herbs, moisten them witli a little gravy and broth, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and cover the liver that you have dished en miroton. Calf’s Liver stewed-*—Cut a very good calf s liver into slices an inch thick melt some butter in a fryingpan, and then put in the liver, and brown it well on both sides, season it well. Take it from the pan, and set it to stew with the butter and chopped parsley, scallions, slialots' gaihc, and a little flour; moisten it with half a pint of wine ; give the sauce a boil and when ready to serve, add a little vinegar. ciirtLr’S Liverf?fff-*~Take a very fine calf s liver, and lard it with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with four sorts of spice pepper, salt shred parsley, and onions.' lay shoes of bacon at the bottom, and ound, a braising- or stewpan; put in the liver, with four carrots, four onions, one of them stuck with cloves, three bay leaves a httle thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, salt, and a bottle of white wine • cover it Fnth bacon and paper; andX"; ovei a stove; when it boils, cover the tKdTt -!10-Pan 011 a»ain wit!l “shes on the lid, let it simmer for two hours. When done, strain the liquor, and put four Mai ^ 7th f°Ur reduce live”. f’ d P°Ur tlus sauce °'rer the v,)n^i'ri h Pluck & la Bourgeoise The pluck comprehends the heart, the lights, j Cllt these in l'ieces, soak them n eU in cold water, and blanch them ; t hen put them in a stewpan, a little butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs, add a little flourCAL CAN 116 and moisten with stock. When done and well flavoured, put to it the yollcs of three eggs, diluted with milk, thicken it over the fire, and when ready to serve, put in a little verjuice. Another way.—Boil the lights and part of the liver, roast the heart stuffed with suet, sweet herbs, parsley, all chopped small, a few crumbs, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon peel; mix it with the yolk of an egg. When the lights and liver are boiled, chop them very small, and put them in a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in flour, some pepper and salt, with a little vinegar or lemon juice , fry the other part of the liver with some slices of bacon, lay the mince at the bottom, the heart in the middle, the fried liver and bacon round, with crisped parsley. Serve with plain butter. Calf’s Tails—Must always be scalded ; braise them; they may then be served with any sauce, and in any way you choose. Calf’s Tails au Blanc.*—Prepare some calves’ tails as en Terrine, and haying mixed the flour with them, moisten with water ; put to them a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay leaves, mushrooms, salt, and a little pepper; skim as directed in the abovementioned receipt; add some small onions, and let it simmer, but not boil. When ready to serve, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs. This ragout maybe made brown as well as white. , Calf’s Tailsand Cabbages.—Scald calves tails and pickled pork, scald also a good savoy for about half an hour ; take it. out, press all the water from it, cut it m quarters, tie it, and braise all together in stock, with slices of bacon, spices, and herbs. When done, take them out, and clear away the fat. Serve with good thick ^Calf’s Tails en Macedoine.*—'Take eight calves’ tails with their skins on, scald and blanch them; cut, and boil them m Madeira wine ; when done, drain, and put them on the table-dish; garnish with veal sweet- breads a la Flan,ancle, onions glazed, and mask each piece of the tails very cnrefu y with a Macedoine. . Calf’s Tails en Terrine.*-Divide seven or eight calves’ tails at the joints, toss them up in some butter, taking care not to . colour them ; then add four ful of flour, mix them well, and put in four ladiesful of consomme, and stir the ragout till it boils ; skim it well; put to it a small basket of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and some scallions. When it is about threb parts done, skim oft all the fat, and when quite done, take out the pieces of tails, and the mushrooms, with a spoon with holes in it, and put them in another saucepan ; add to the sauce a ladleful of veloute, and when properly reduced strain it over the tails ; poach some veal quenelles, put them into your tureen ; toss up some shoulder of veal kernels, and veal sweet- breads cut in pieces, in alittle butter, and having drained, put them also into the tureen. Thicken your ragout with five yolks of eggs, stir them in over the stove, but do not let it boil ; as soon as you find it sufficiently thick, pour it into the tureen, over the quenelle, and other articles, which must be kept hot. Calf’s Tongue.*—Must hang till tender ; lard and season it moderately, and boil it. They may be dressed in any form, and . served with what sauce you please. Calf’s Tongues au Miruton.* Prepare and lard as above, braise them. When i done, and cold, cut them in slices, put. them in a stewpan, with mushrooms and . sweet herbs, moistened with veal gravy or blond; when done, add a little vinegar. Calf’s Tongue, with Sauce piquante. Soak four calves’tongues, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour ; then cool, trim, j and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Put the tongues in a braise, or stew them with carrots, onions, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and a ladleful of stock. 1 hey will require two hours cooking. M hen done, take off the skins, glaze, and place them round a dish, with an oval crouton in the centre. Serve with sauce piquante. CANAPES.*—Cut some slices of bread about an inch thick, and having taken off the crusts, form the crumb into whatever shapes- you may think proper ; such as hearts, squares, lozenges, Ac.; ir\ them in good olive oil, to a nice colour, and drain them. Take some anchovies, hard e<rrrS (the yolks and whites separate), gherkins, capers, Ac. ; chop them small, place them on the fried bread (having previously seasoned them with salt and vinegar), and pour over the whole, an serve this as a side dish. Canapes.*—Roll out three quarters ot a pound of puff paste, keeping it long and narrow ; do not let it be more than a quarter of an inch thick, and about three inches wide. Cut the paste across with a sharp knife, in slips three eighths of an inch in width, and place them on the cut side, on a baking-plate, each two inchesCAN CAN 117 apart; bake them in a hot oven, and when nicely coloured, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. When done, remove them from the plate ; and just before they are served, mask them with apricot marmalade, or any other you may like better, and ar- range them on your dish en couronne. Canapes with Pistachios.*•—Make the i canapes according to the above directions. When g'lazed whip up the white of an egg with an ounce of fine sugar; cover the ; canapes with this, and then mask them with i pistachio nuts, chopped small. Garnish i them with apple jelly. The canapes may he glazed and masked with any sort of 6weetmeat or jelly you may think proper to use. i CANAPIES.—Cut some pieces of the n crumb of bread about four inches long-, i'i three inches wide, anehipne inch thick; fry them in boiling lard, till of a light brown colour; then put them on a drainer, and cut into slips some breast of fowl, an- chovies picked from the bone, pickled cucumbers, and ham or tongue. Then butter the pieces of bread on one side, and lay upon them, alternately, the different articles, till filled. Trim the edges, and put the pieces (cut into what form you please) upon a dish, with slices of lemon round the rim ; and serve in a sauce-boat, a little mixture of oil, vinegar, Cayenne pepper, and salt. ' CANARY (Artificial).—Fill a cask that has contained good Malaga wine with spring water, and for each gallon of water, put six pounds of Malaga raisins bruised, and over every twenty gallons, sprinkle a handful of calx wine. Close the cask ; cover it with cloths, and let it stand' four or five days in a warm place to fer- ment ; then open it, and should the raisins float, press them down ; cover it again, and let it stand a month, looking at it and pressing down the raisins as above, every four or five days. At the month’s end, tap the vessel a few inches above the bottom, and if the liquor is properly flavoured, draw it off into another Malaga cask ; and to every twenty gallons addDa Pint of brandy, a quart of Alicant wine, t\vo eggs well beaten, and let it stand till jit lor drinking. A little loaf sugar may be added if not sufficiently sweet. Put mto the whole a small quantity of whito "'ine, or good cider to make it brisk. CANDYING. — Fruit intended for candying must be first preserved, and dried in a stove before the fire, that none of the syrup may remain in it. Sugar intended for the use of candying must be thus pre- pared : Put into a preserving-pan a pound of sugar, with half a pint of water, and set it over a very clear fire. Take off the scum as it rises ; boil it till it looks clear and fine, and take out a little in a silver spoon. When it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your spoon, it is boiled enough for any kind of sweetmeat. Then boil your syrup, and when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. It is a great mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into too thick a syrup, especially at the first, as it withers the fruit, and both the beauty and flavour are thereby destroyed. Candy (to) Flowers.—Take the best treble-refined sugar, break it into lumps, and dip it piece by piece into water; put them into a vessel of silver, and melt them over the fire ; when it just boils, strain it, and put it on the fire again, and let it boil till it draws in hairs, which you may per- ceive by holding up your spoon ; then put in the flowers, and set them in cups or glasses. When it is of a hard candy, break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you please. Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, and it will look like sugarcandy. Candy (all Sorts of Fruit).—When finished in the syrup, put a layer into anew sauce, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready-sifted, double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides, till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of tiie sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. CANNELLONS.— Make a stiff paste, witli a little melted butter, a spoonful or two of water, some rasped lemon peel, an egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and half that quantity of sugar; roll it very thin ; make a little cane of card paper, butter it ■well on the outside, and wrap it in some of the paste ; bake it a few minutes ; take out the card, and fill the paste with cur- rant jelly, or any other jelly or sweetmeat you please. Cannellons fried.* — Roll out some puff paste very thin and long, moisten the surface lightly, and place along it, at equal distances, small quantities of apricot, peach, or any other marmalade; spread it about two inches and a half long, but not more than half an inch in width; turn the118 CAP CAN •remainder of the paste over, press down the edges, then cut the cannellous, leaving aquarter of an inch heyond the marmalade each way; press the paste together all round, to keep in the preserve; and when all are cut, put them into a pan and fry them ; when done, drain them in a napkin, and sprinkle them with powder sugar. Cannellons glacis. — Roll out some puff paste thin, and about eighteen inches square, and cut it into twenty-four strips : have hy you as many pieces of heech wood turned, about six inches long, and three quarters of an inch in diameter, a degree less at one end than at the other. Butter these pieces of wood, and having moist- ened your strips of paste, wind one round each of them, beginning at the smallest end, so as to form a sort of screw, four inches in length; lay them on baking- plates, pretty distant from each other, dorez and put them into a hot oven. When of a nice colour, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze; as soon as you remove them from the oven, take out the pieces of wood, and lay them on a cool slab. When wanted for table, fill them with apple or any other jelly you may choose. Cannellons Meringuis.* — Whip. the whites of two eggs, and having mixed them with two spoonsful of powder sugar, then mask the cannellons; when baked, crush a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and roll the cannellons in it; replace them a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. The masking of these cannellons may. be varied according to taste, with pistachios, dried currants, &c., the former, cut in pieces, the latter well washed, dried, and mixed with an equal quantity of sugar. Cannellons d la Parisienne—Slake .twenty pannequets, garnish them with apricot or quince marmalade ; roll them as usual, and then cut each in half, trim, and dip them in eggs, like croquettes, bread and fry them. When done, glaze and serve them immediately. These cannellons may also he covered with creams, or preserves of any kind you please. Cannellons Pro Unis with Filberts. — Mince a quarter of a pound of filberts, and mix them with two ounces of powder sugar, and a very little white of egg : pre- pare the cannellons as above; just before you put them into the oven, roll them m the filberts, so ns to cover them with that mixture; take care to return each to its place on the baking-plate; put them in a moderate oven, and colour them a good yellow. Finish as above. i Cannellons with Sugar*—Prepare the t cannellons as usual, roll them in grained j sugar, and finish. CAPERS to pickle. — The tree that hears capers is called the caper shrub or bush, of which they are the flower-buds. They are common in the western parts of Europe, and we have them in some of our gardens; but Toulon is the principal place for them. Some are sent us from Lyons* hut they are flatter, and not so firm. Some come from Majorca, but they are salt and disagreeable. They gather the buds from the blossoms before they open, then spread them upon the floor of a room where no sun enters, and there let them lie till they begin : to wither. They then throw them into a i tub of sharp vinegar, and after three days, , they add a quantity of bay salt. 11 hen i this is dissolved, they are fit for packing, , and are sent to all parts of Europe. The finest capers are those of a moderate size, firm, and close, and such as have the pickle highly flavoured. Those which are soft, flabby, and half open, are of little value. Capers fine and coarse* — The fine capers are made use of in garnishing dressed salads, and to put whole into sauces; the coarser sorts are used in sauces where it is necessary to chop up the capers. Caper Sauce-for Fish. — Take some melted butter, into which throw a small hit of glaze ; and when the sauce is in a state of readiness, throw into it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. Caper Sauce it la Franqoise.—Take some capers, cut them small; put some essence of ham into a small saucepan, with a little pepper; let it boil, then put in the capers, let them boil up two or three times, and pour into a boat. Caper Sauce (to imitate).—Boil some parsley very slowly, to let it become of a had colour, then cut it up (but do not chop it fine) ; put it into melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and then serve. Caper Sauce for Meat.—'lake some ca pers, chop half of them very fine, and put the rest in whole. Then chop some parsley with a little grated bread, and put to it some salt. Put them into butter, melted very smooth ; let them boil up, and tnen pour them into a sauce-boat. _ Caper Sauce for Meat.—Having somaCAP CAP 119 butter sauce made hot, mix in a few chop- ped capers, with one squeeze of lemon juice ; melted butter will make the same, but of an inferior kind. CAPILLAIRE (to make).—Take four- teen pounds of sugar, three pounds of coarse sugar, six eggs heat in with the shells, three quarts of water; boil it up twice; skim it well, then add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water; strain it through a jelly-bag, and put it into bottles; when cold, mix a spoonful or two of this syrup, as it is liked for sweetness, in a draught of warm or cold water. Capillaire (Syrup of).*—The capillaire of Canada, although that of Montpellier is equally good, is a very odoriferous vege- table, "light and agreeable, but so extremely volatile, that the greatest part of it is dis- sipated during the preparation of the syrup. To preserve then the odour of the capillaire, when your syrup is sufficiently done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up; then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite cold, then pass it through a bolt- ing-c.loth to separate it from the leaves of .the capillaire. Take one ounce of the capillaire from Canada; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it four pints of boiling water, leave it to infuse for twelve hours over some warm ashes; strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will give you a strong tipcture of capillaire; melt in this tincture four .pounds of sugar, put the whole into a pre- serving-pan, and put it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg; con- tinue the cooking; when your syrup is perle, put some fresh capillaire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your syrup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your pan carefully, and let it cool; when your syrup is cold, you may flavour it if you please. Put it into bottles, and cork them hermetically. Capillaire (Syrup of).* — Take some good capillaire, chop it up, not very small, put it upon a sieve; pour upon it some .boiling water, and then let it infuse forten hours in a vessel well covered ; strain this infusion, and put into it some sugar boiled au cass6; clarify this syrup with the whites of eggs whipped; skim it till it is very clear; when it rises, take it off the fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into bot- tles. Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for a quarter of an hour in river water; after having passed this boiling through a sieve, they put into it some powder sugar, and clarify their syrup with water, or a whole egg beaten up ; then skim it, and when it is very clear and has boiled au lisse, they take it off the fire, and put into it some orange-flower water, and strain it through a napkin or straining-bag, leaving it to cool before putting it into bottles. For three pints and a half of syrup, you must use two good ounces of capillaire, four pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, powder sugar is the best, as it pre- vents syrups from candying. Capillaire (Syrup of).—Put an ounce of the leaves of the herb called Maidenhair, for a moment, into boiling water; take them out, and put them in a little tepid water, leaving them to infuse for at least twelve hours upon hot embers ; then strain them through a sieve ; next put a pound of sugar into a saucepan, with a good glass of water ; boil it to the same degree as for syrup of violets, then put to it the capil- laire, or maidenhair water, not suffering it to boil; take it off the fire as soon as it is well mixed with the sugar; put it into an earthen pan closely covered, and set the pan, during three days, over hot embers, keeping the heat as equal as you can, but not too violent. When the syrup will ex- tend into a strong thread between your fingers, put it into bottles, taking care not to cork them till the syrup is quite cold. . Capillaire Syrup.—Take two quarts of fine syrup, and boil it to a blow; boil twice or three times, two gills and a half of orange-flower water, skimming it all the time; put it into new bottles and cork it up the next day; put pieces of bladder over the corks, but mind that it is a fine syrup before you take it oft'. CAPILOTADE a, I’ltalienne.—Cutup a cold roast fowl; then take a good slice of butter, and some shred mushrooms and potherbs; fry these, till they are about to turn brown, with a tea-spoonful of flour; then add to them a large glass of white wine. Let the whole simmer together for a quarter of an hour; next put in the pieces ol fowl, and heat them up for a few minutes. Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread; and just before you serve, pour into the saucepan two table-spoonsful of oil, taking care that it does not boil, and stir it up well with the sauce. CAPON boiled. — Draw your capon, wash it, and fill the inside with oysters. Cut a neck of mutton in pieces; boil it, and skim it well; put in the capon, andCAP 120 CAP when it boils, skim it again; take cave that jrou have not more broth than will just cover the meat; then put in about a pint of white wine, whole pepper, cloves, and mace. About a quarter of an hour before it is finished, put in three an- chovies, carefully washed and boned; you may also, if you think proper, add parsley and sweet herbs. When it is sufficiently done, put some sippets into a dish, take the oysters out of the capon, put them into the broth, and pour it over the sippets, then place the capon in the middle, and squeeze either an orange or lemon over before you serve. Capon (to chouse a).—If it is young, his spurs are short and his legs smooth ; if a true capon, a fat vein on the side of his breast, the comb pale, and a thick belly and rump ; if fresh, he will have a close hard vent; if stale, a loose open vent. Capon with. Crayfish.—Stew a capon a la braise ; then make a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and the tails of crayfish ; toss it up with a little melted lard, moisten with a good deal of veal gravy, and thicken it with a cullis of crayfish; then take up your capon, let it drain, then put it in a dish, aud pour your ragout over it and serve. You must be careful not to let your ra- gout boil after you have put in your cray- fish cullis, for, if it should, it will turn; therefore only keep it over hot embers. Capon dressed the French Way.—Take a quart of white wine, season the capon with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a few sha- lots ; and then put the capon in an earthen pan; you must take care it lias not room to shake ; it must be covered close, and done over a slow charcoal fire. Capon to fricassee.—Proceed the same as for chickens. See recipe. Capon au gros Sel.—After having drawn and trussed a capon, rub it over with lemon, and cover it with slices of bacon, and put it into a stewpan with some onions, carrots, the neck, the gizzard, and some pieces of veal; mix the whole together with some bouillon, and let it stew over a gentle fire, from about an hour and a half to two hours. Serve it with rock salt sprinkled over it, and a good gi'avy. Capon au gros Sel.—It is usually an old capon that is dressed in this way. Having drawn and trussed it, cover it with rashers of bacon to preserve its whiteness ; tie it up and put it into a saucepan, with a suffi- cient quantity of water. \V hen done, serve with a little of its broth, and some rock salt sprinkled over it. A capon is esteemed j a great delicacy; they are best about seven | or eight months old, and are almost always served roasted ; should they not be very i tender, they may be dressed en daube, like ;l a turkey. Capon, the Italian Fashion.—Boil some jfl rice in mutton broth till it is very thick, adding salt and sugar; then boil some Bo- logna sausages very tender, mince them very small, add some grated cheese, sugar, and cinnamon, mix the whole together; j then your capon being boiled or roasted, cut it up, and lay it on a dish with some rice, strew over it some of the sausage, cinnamon, grated cheese, and sugar, and lay on the yolks of raw eggs; thus make two or three layers, lay some eggs, butter, or marrow on the top of all, and set it over a chafing-dish of coals, or in a warm oven. Capon larded with Lemon.—Let your capon be first scalded, then take a little dust of oatmeal to make it look white ; then take a pint of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three dates, cut longwise, some currants parboiled, a little whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a nutmeg; thicken it with almonds, season with sugar, verjuice, and a little butter ; then lard the capon with thick lardons of bacon and preserved lemon, boil it; when done, place it in a deep dish, and pour the stock over it. | Garnish with preserved barberries and I sippets. Capon with Oysters.—Dress a capon a la I braise, then simmer some mushrooms and truffles in some veal gravy over a stove, and thicken it with a cullis of veal aud ham ; then give some oysters two or three i turns in their own liquor over the fire to blanch them, but do not let them boil; take them off, clean them well, and put them into the ragout you have prepared, set it over the fire to heat, but do not let it boil ; take up the capon, let it dram, then lay it in a dish, pour the ragout over, and serve it hot. Capon with Oysters and Chestnuts.—Boil twelve large chestnuts till they are soft, then peel them and put them into claret wine warmed with the same number of oysters parboiled ; spit the capon, and put these into the inside of the capon, and stop them in with butter, roast it before a quick fire, baste it with fresh butter, and when it begins to drip, preserve the grav v; then take half a pint of claret, put into it fifteen or twenty large chestnuts boiled, aud the same number of oysters, a piece of121 CAP CAP butter, and some whole pepper; stew all these together till half has stewed away, add some cullis; when your capon is roasted, put the gravy winch you have saved into the sauce, bread the capon, place it on a dish, pour the sauce all over, and serve. Capon Pasty.—Roast a capon, let it he cold, take the flesh from the hones and slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, four sweetbreads and half a pint of oysters, sea- son them with salt, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, and thyme, minced; lay a sheet of paper or paste in your pasty-pan, and lay the thighs and pinions on the bottom, and strew them over with sliced onions, then put in the flesh of the capon, the sweetbreads, and the oysters cut in halves ; over these strew a handful of chestnuts, boiled and blanched, then put butter over them, close up your pan and bake it; when done, add gravy, good stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and j grated nutmeg; garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Turkey may be done in the same manner. Capon with Peas.—Boil a fat piece of beef with a capon, a piece of bacon, and a little salt; when the capon is almost boiled, take it out, and braise some peas and boil them in the broth ; then take up the beef, and put in the capon again ; when all is < Bufficiently done, take up the peas, strain them, and put them into a saucepan by themselves; when done, dish the capon, pour the strained peas over it, and serve. Capon in Piltaa.*—Truss a capon with the claws inside, and tie it up ; put it into n stewpan with some good consomme, and cover it with a slice of bacon ; when the capon is about three parts done, put in half n pound of rice well washed; let it stand over the fire till the rice is perfectly done, then drain the capon, and dish it. Add to the rice some saffron in powder, and a good pimento ; butter, and place it round the capon. Capon Pudding.—Roast a capon, take out the meat of the breast, mince it small, then cut some pig’s feet very thin, put these into a saucepan, with a couple of roasted onions; then pound them in a toortar with sweet herbs and shred parsley, Seasoned with spices and mixed with the whites of two or three eggs beaten. Beat up the yolks of twelve eggs in a quart of nulk, boil it to a cream ; then mix all to- gether, and just warm it over the fire ; put ese into skins the same as you do marrow puddings ; blanch them in water and milk with slices of onions ; when you use them, spread a sheet of paper over with lard, lay it on a gridiron, broil your puddings on it over a gentle fire and serve them. Capon au Riz.*—Draw and truss your capon, and cover it with slices of bacon ; then wash thoroughly a quarter of a pound of rice ; drain it and let it dry before the fire, then put it into some bouillon, and let it stew, moistening it and stirring it from time to time ; when it is done, keep it on warm ashes and soak some crust of bread in it; drain your capon which you have cooked, with it, take off the slices of bacon, and serve it on a dish with the rice round it, and pour over the whole some clear veal gravy. Capons, in general, are dressed the same as fowls. Capon soused.—Take a full-bodied ca- pon, prepare it as for the spit, then lay it in soak four hours with a knuckle of veal welljointed ; then boil them with a gallon of water, skim it well, put in five or six blades of mace, two or three races of sliced ginger, three fennel, and three parsley roots. When the capon is boiled, take it up and put to your soused broth a quart of white wine, boil it to a jelly, then put it into an earthen pan, and put your capon into it with three lemons sliced, then cover it close for use. When you serve it, gar- nish with barberries, slices of lemon, nut- meg, mace, and some of the jelly. Capon roasted with sweet Herbs.—When you have drawn the capon, put your finger between the skin and flesh to loosen it; grate some bacon (the quantity of two eggs), and add to it one truffle, one mush- room, a little parsley, and garden basil; season these with salt, pepper, and spices; mix these all well together, and put them between the skin and flesh of the capon, and sew up the end ; then lard the capon ■with slices of veal and ham, putting a little sweet herbs, salt, and pepper between ; then wrap it up in sheets of paper, and put it on the spit to roast. By the time it is roasted, have ready a ragout of veal sweet- breads, fat livers, mushrooms, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, asparagus tops in their season, which should be tossed up with a little melted lard, and strengthened with a good gravy; take off the fat, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham ; place your capon on a dish, pour your ra- gout under, and serve. Chickens, par- tridges, ducks, pheasants, &c., may be dressed in the same manner. *122 CAR CAR CAPSICUM Pods.—Gather the pods, with the stalks on, before they turn red ; cut a slit down the side with a penknife, and take out all the seeds, but as little of the meat as possible; lay them in a strong brine for three days, changing it every day; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, and lay another over them till they are quite dry ; boil vinegar enough to co- ver them, put in some mace and nutmeg beat small; put the pods into a glass or jar, and when the liquor is cold, pour it over, then tie a bladder and leather over them. CARAMEL Conserve.* — Clarify the quantity of sugar you may require, and boil it to caramel; have ready some cases of double paper; pour in your sugar to the thickness of half an inch, and trace on its surface the forms you wish it to have ; when cold, break it according to those marks. This conserve may be coloured and fla- voured according to the fancy. Caramel Cover of Sweetmeats.—Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonsful of water, and three or four drops of lemon juice; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint basin of wa- ter, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is done enough ; and having a copper mould oiled well, run the sugar on it, in whatever figure jmur fancy and genius may direct; chip off the edges with a knife, detach it when cold, ancl use to co- ver any pastry or sweetmeats with. But, to be candid, I must confess that this sort of article can never he learned by theory, you must have a practical lesson of it. ■ Caramel Croquant.—See the foregoing, using a croquant mould. CARDAMUM Comfits— Procure your cardamums at the chemists, and they will be in a shell; put them into the oven to dry the skins, and they will break ; pick all the seeds from them, put the seeds into a large comfit-pan, and have a fire under the same as for others; mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and finish them the same as caraway comfits. Cardamum Water.—Take pimento, ca- raway and coriander seeds, and lemon peel, of each four ounces; three gallons of proof spirit, and a sufficient quantity of water; distil, and sweeten it with a pound and a half of sugar. CARDOONS with Cheese.' StTing and cut them an inch long, put them into a saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pepper and salt, stew them till they are tender, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and when of a proper thickness pour 1 them into a dish ; squeeze the juice of an orange into the sauce, and scrape over them some Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, . [ and then brown them with a cheese-iron, , | but not of too high a colour. Cardoons in Cheese*—Add to the sauce | in which the cardoons are cooked, grated I Parmesan or Gruyere cheese; and put it : over them when placed in the dish ; cover • 1 them with bread crumbs and grated! j cheese, pour melted butter over the whole; . colour it in the oven, or with a salaman- • der. Another way.—When the cardoons are ■ boiled, put a little cullis into a dish, and lay on it as many bits of fried bread as you have cardoons, which place on the bread; pour cullis over, and strew grated cheese over. Finish as above. Cardoons (to dress).—Cut them in . pieces six inches long, and put them on a string; boil till tender; have ready a piece of butter in a pan, flour and fry them. They may also be tied in bundles, and served as asparagus boiled, on a toast, and pour butter over. Cardoons a VEssence with Marrow.— j The same preparation as for Spanish car- doons, receipt second. Take a few pieces il of beef marrow, all of a size, which you [ put to disgorge in warm water, to draw out all the blood. When thoroughly dis: • gorged, blanch and stew it in a little wa- ter, with a little salt, and a few slices of lemon to keep it white. W hen done, put I it into the essence, which is nothing but some espagnole reduced. Drain the fat, 1 and do not forget to put a little sugar; which is requisite in all dishes of cardoons, 1 as it makes them much better. Cardoons fried and buttered. must cut them about six inches long, and String them; then boil them till tenner; take them out, have some butter in your Stewpan, flour them, and frv them brown; send them in a dish, with melted butter in a boat. Or, vou may tie them up in bun- dles, and boil them like asparagus ; put n toast under them, and pour a little melted butter over them; or cut them into dice, and boil them like pease : toss them up in butter, and send them up hot. Cardoons (Purde of).*—Boil some car- doons in a blanc, and cut them into sm jCAR 123 CAR piecos ; have ready three large spoonsful of veloute, and six of consomme, in which put the cardoons; set them on the fire till reduced to a paste; then pass them through a tammy ; keep your puree, as thick as purdes usually are, hut if too thick, put in a little cream; add a bit of jelly about the size of a walnut; keep it hot without boiling iu the bain-marie. Cardoons ( Puree of) in Croustade.*•— Cut some slices about an inch and a half thick from a large French loaf, fry them of a light colour in butter, drain them; take out the inner crumb, and fill them with a purde of cardoons, having mixed about half an ounce of butter in whilst the jmrde was quite hot. Cabdoons a, la Sauce blanche.—The same preparation as for, Spanish cardoons, receipt second, only serve with the suuce blanche, or French melted butter. Cardoons (Spanish).*—Cut them into lengths of three inches, be careful, not to use those which are hollow and green; boil them for half an hour, then put them into lukewarm water to cleanse them from their slime ; then dress them in some stock, with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little ver- juice, and a little butter; when done, put them into a cullis with some stock; cook them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. Cardoons (Spanish).—Select a few heads of cardoons, all very white. Cut each leaf into slices of six inches long ; with the exception, however, of those that are hollow, which are tough and thready. Beard them of their prickles, and blanch them, by putting the thickest leaves into boiling water. When you have given these a few boils, put in the leaves of the heart; turn the middle stalks into large olives, and blanch them likewise. Then try a piece in cold water, to see if tire slime which is on the surface will come off by rubbing. If so, take them off the fire im- mediately, and throw them into cold wa- ter, as they are done enough; or you may cool the boiling water, by pouring cold into it till you are able to bear your hand in it, to rub oft' all the slime. This being done, throw the cardoons into a blanc, give them a single boil, and leave them in the blanc. Whenever you wish to use them, drain a sufficient quantity. Bare both ex- tremities, and mask them in a stewpan, With four spoonsful of espagnole, and four spoonsful of consommd, a little salt, and a little sugar. Let them boil over a sharp fire, that they may not be done too much; be sure to skim off all the fat. Dish them nicely. Strain the sauce through a tammy before you mask them. Send them up to table quite hot, with a cover over them, to prevent their getting dry. Cardoons stewed.—Cut them in pieces, take off the outside skin, wash and scald them; put them into a stewpan, add stock enough to cover them, boil till three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced, then add a little bechamelle, and stew them gently till done. Serve with sippets of fried bread round the dish, and the car- doons in the centre. Cardoons au Veloute.—The same pre- paration as for Spanish cardoons. Take some out of the blanc, trim and stew them in a little consomme, and when they are done, drain and sauce them with some veloute. CARP.—Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to pre- vent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. The tongue and the soft roe should always be taken care of, as they are dainty parts of the fish. Carp.*—-When it is large, it is served au blew as a roast, having drawn and taken out its gills (it should not be scaled), put it upon a large dish, boil some vinegar, and whilst it is boiling hot pour it over the carp, this will turn it blue; then dress it in a thick bouillon. lloast.—When it is done, serve it upon a napkin, garnished with green parsley, as a dish of roast maigre. Carp aw Blanc.*—Clean your carp, and put it into a fish-kettle with some small onions, a good piece of butter, worked up with some flour; moisten it with two glasses of white wine, and one glass of water; let it boil quickly for an hour and a half; when done, and the sauce thick, serve it: you must be careful not to let the sauce be too thick. Carp boiled in Wine.—Take the liver of the carp clean from the guts, three an- chovies, a little parsley, thyme, and onion ; chop them together, and take half a pint of rhenish wine, four spoonsful of vinegar, and the blood of the carp ; stew them gently together, put it to the carp, which must first be boiled in water, with a little salt, and half a pint of wine; but after the carp is put into the sauce, let it not be done too much. Carp broiled.*■—Clenn your carp, cut off the tail and the fins ; put into the body a piece of butter worked up with sweetCAR 124 CAU herbs; sew up the opening, and make some notches on both sides about half an inch deep, rub it with apiece of fresh but- ter, and cover it all over with crumbs of bread and parsley, chopped very fine. Broil it over a gentle fire, and serve with whatever sauce you think best. Carp broiled with Caper Sauce.—Having scaled and drawn one or more carp, let them soak on a dish with a mixture of salt, pepper, and oil; then take them out, find broil by a moderate fire; when done, serve with caper sauce. Carp a la Chambord.*—Clean, scale, and well wash a fine carp; skin it, and lard it all over with small pieces of bacon, tie it together by the head and tail; put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich or anaigre marinade, and let it boil until the bacon is coloured. Dish your carp, and garnish with forcemeat balls, veal sweetbreads, crayfish, toasted bread, artichoke bottoms, boiled with the carp; reduce the sauce made with the liquor in which the carp has boiled, add two spoonsful of Spanish sauce, then pour it over your fish. Carp ait Commissaire*—Scale, clean, take out the gills, and skin a fine carp, lard it all over with small pieces of bacon. Make a farce of sweetbreads, truffles, fat livers, bacon and chicken, or any other poultry ; cut up the whole into small dice, stuff your carp, and sew up the opening fast. Put into a stewpan two slices of bacon and two slices of veal; wrap your carp in a sheet of paper, and put it into the stewpan on the slices of bacon and real, and cover your carp with two more slices of veal, let the whole sweat over a gentle fire; and when the veal begins to co- lour, pour into tho stewpan a bottle of Bur- gundy, and a pint of rich bouillon, salt, pepper, tarragon ; let the whole boil slowly for two hours. When the carp is done, serve it upon a dish over hot water; strain the sauce through a sieve, reduce it to a proper consistence, and pour it boiling over your fish; it is usually glazed with veal gravy consomme, reduced to a good jelly, and of a fine clear golden colour; garnish your dish with crayfish, sweet- breads, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, or any other kind of garniture which the season may afford. Carp an Court Bouillon.*—Wash, scale, and clean a carp, take out the gills, and put into the body a piece of butter worked up with some flour; boil a glass of vinegar, and whilst it is boiling pour it over your fish; add to it some salt. pepper, laurel, a pint of wine, and two slices of lemon ; cook it for two hours, drain it, serve it on a napkin, and strew over it some green parsley. Carp a la Duvbe*—Scale and clean a fine carp ; if it is old it must be skinned. Lard it, and put it into a fish-kettle with some good bouillon, a pint of Champagne, salt, pepper, coriander, and the juice of a lemon; let it boil till the sauce is reduced to a proper consistence : serve it hot. Carp Dressed with Eels*—Clean, and cook in a stewpan, some carp whole, with some eels cut in pieces, and the bone taken out; add some bouillon, either rich or maigre, white wine, and sweet herbs. When done, dish your carp, with the eels properly ranged round ; reduce the sauce, and serve it over the fish. Carp, Entree of*—Take a fine carp, clean and scale it, chop up some parsley, scallion, shalots, tarragon, and other fine herbs; work in a piece of butter, and when the whole is well mixed together, put it into the body of the carp. Put it in a ves- sel sufficiently long to let it lay full length: you must, before you put your carp into your vessel, line your vessel with a layer of onions cut in slices, with two cloves of garlic, a little Seville orange peel, salt, pepper, and a pint of wine, or two pints, according to the size of your fish; add a glass or two of fish bouillon, or incase you have not any ready, you may substi- tute boiling -water ; cook it over a slow fire for two or three hours. When it is sufficiently done, take it out, and place it on a dish ; strain the sauce through a sieve, and if it is too thin, reduce it, then pour it over your fish. Carp a VEstaing*—Clean, scale, and take out the gills of a carp, lard it with bacon, truffles, and fillets of anchovies ; then make a farce of the flesh of perch, roach, or any other small fish, chopped up with crumb of bread boiled in milk ; add parsley, scallion, slialots, salt, nutmeg, butter, and the yolks of three eggs: mix the whole well together, and stuff your carp. Put into a stewpan some onions, butter, and slices of truffles ; put in your carp (having first carefully sewn up the opening of the belly where you have put in your stuffing, and run a thread through the mouth of the fish, that you may take it out of the stewpan without breaking). Moisten it with equal quantities of fish bouillon and red Burgundy, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; let it stew for three hours;125 CAR CAR serve it upon a dish, and pour over it the sauce remaining in the stewpan, having first strained it through a sieve. Carp (Farce of).—Take the flesh of two carps, which should he chopped, pounded, and ruhbed through a sieve. Soak some i crumb of bread in some good milk ; have a few mushrooms and a little parsley chopped fine. Set the herbs to sweat in a little butter, over a slow fire; then let them cool in a hair sieve. Next put the i bread which has been soaked and squeezed properly, with the flesh of the carp that has been rubbed through a tammy, into a mortar, with a lump of butter, of about the same hulk as the flesh of the carp, and sea- son with pepper, salt, allspice, three or four eggs’ whites and yolks together; farces with butter require more eggs than those with udder. Yet before you put more than three, you must try to roll some of the farce in a little flour, and to poach it in boiling water. You then taste, and add to the seasoning if required. When completely done, rub it through a sieve, and let it cool in the larder, and use it when you have occasion. This farce is used for petits pates of carp and quenelles. Carp Farci*—Scale a fine soft-roed carp ; split it up the back ; take out the flesh without injuring the skin, and with- out touching the back-bone ; chop up this ! flesh with that of an eel, very small; sea- ‘ son it with fresh butter, sweet herbs, thyme, mushrooms, cloves, grated nutmeg, add also some of the roe : put this farce l into the carp ; then sew it up ; put it into a stewpan, with some butter roux, white wine, and some clear stock; baste it all over with fresh butter worked with flour, and chopped parsley ; bake it in the oven ; serve it, garnished, with the sauce and 1 fried mushrooms. CAnr Farci, baked.—Take a fine carp, scale and empty it; then detach one side of the fillets, without injuring the head, lake this flesh, and that of another carp of a smaller size, and make a farce in the following manner: Take the crumb of two penny loaves, soak it in cream or milk, then squeeze it, and put it into a mortar, tvith an equal quantity of the flesh of tho carp, nearly as much fresh butter, with a little chopped parsley, a few mushrooms fried in a little butter, salt, pepper, and spice. When all these ingredients have been pounded in a mortar, add a couple of eoSs, and continue pounding for a lon<>- time, then take a little, and throw into boiling \yater, and taste. If it be not fine enough, add one egg more, pound it again, and then rub it through the sieve a que- nelles ; and fill up the cavities in the fillets of the carp, giving it the shape of a fish. Take care, however, to give it a good shape. Next, let it be done thoroughly in the oven, and serve it, with caper sauce under it. Carp Fillets with Lemon.*—Cut some middling-sized carp into fillets, and stew them with some fish gravy for a quarter of an hour ; place them upon a dish, reduce some sauce, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and then pour it boiling over your fillets, and serve. Carps (Florendine of).—Take the yolkg of half a dozen eggs, and three quarters of a pound of butter, and work them up in a quarter of a peck of flour ; dry it, add ag much water as will make it into a paste, make it up as near as you can in the form of the fish. Scale a' carp alive, scrape off the slime, draw it, season it lightly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put the milt into the belly, lay it into the pie ; then lay on it dates sliced in halves, barberries, rai- sins, orange and lemon cut in slices, but- ter, close it up, and bake it; when it is almost baked, liquor it with butter, claret, white wine, verjuice, and sugar. Ice it over, and serve it hot. Carp fried*—Clean and scale a carp ; split it up the back, flatten the back-hone, sprinkle your fish with flour, then sprinkle the roes which have been put aside, put the whole into a fryingpan made very hot, fry to a rich colour, and serve it with lemon juice. Carp glacee.*—Clean and skin a carp, lard it with small pieces of bacon, stuff it; and boil it quickly in white wine. Then drain it. Put a stuffing on a dish, and lay your carp upon it, cover it with two slices of veal, over which put a buttered sheet of paper. Then bake it in a moderate oven ; when sufficiently done, take off the slices of veal, and glaze with a gravy made from carp, or any other, and" reduced to the proper consistency. Carp en Matelote*—Take a carp, scale it, and take out tho gills ; cut it in pieces, and put it into a stewpan with some other fish, either jack, eels, crayfish, barbel, or any other river fish, which it is most con- venient to procure. Put into another stew- pan a little roux, some small onions, cut in quarters. Then moisten with equal quan- tities of red wine and soup jnaigre ; then pour your onions with their sauce into theCAR CAR li’i stewpan in which you have put your carp, mid. season the whole with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; then put it to boil over a brisk tire for half an hour. When ready to serve, put some pieces of toasted bread in the sauce. t When the carp is done without any other fish, it is called stewed ; the manner of dressing it is exactly the same. Carp minced.*—Clean some small carp, skin them, and take out the bones; mince the flesh with parsley, shalots, salt, pep- per, and nutmeg; melt some butter in a stewpan, and put your mince into it; let it stew for a quarter of an hour, then moisten it with soup maigre, and let it stew till done. Dish it with pieces of fried bread all round. Carp Pie.—Scrape off the scales, and gut and wash a large carp clean. Boil an eel till almost tender; pick off all the meat, and mince it fine, with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, a few sweet herbs, lemon peel cut fine, a little pepper, salt, and nut- meg grated ; an anchovy, half a pint of oysters parboiled, and chopped fine, and the yolks of three hard eggs cut small : roll it up with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fill the belly of the carp. Make a good crust to cover the dish, and lay in the fish. Save the liquor of the eels, put into it the eel bones, and boil them with a little mace, whole pepper, an onion, some sweet herbs, and an anchovy, till reduced to half a pint; then strain it, add to it a quarter of a pint of white wine, and a piece of butter about the size of a hen’s egg, mixed in a very little flour. Boil it up, and pour it into the pie ; then put on the lid, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. Carp, Polish Fashion.—Cut a carp into large pieces, and slit the head in two ; put it into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, slices of onions, bits of carrots, parsley, green shalots, thyme, laurel, whole pepper, and salt; soak it a little while ; then add a pint of beer, and a good glass of brandy; when done, strain the sauce, add a bit of butter, roll it in flour, and the juice of a Seville orange ; reduce the sauce pretty thick, and serve upon the fish. Caiip Ragout.*—Draw and scale your carp, then broil it with stuffing over it, then cut it in pieces, put it into a stewpan with some butter, parsley, onion, mush- rooms, all chopped up, n pint of white wine, some salt, and pepper. When it is sufficiently stewed, serve it with a thick sauce. Carp en Redin gate*—Clean your carp, cut off the tail and fins, stuff it with a farce, made according to your own taste, f | cut it on the back, and rub it well all over | with fresh butter ; then strew it with I bread crumbs and chervil, chopped fine, and worked with butter ; cover it with a sheet of paper, and wrap it up; cook it over a moderate fire in a large pan. Serve it with what sauce you please. Caiip rousted.—Stuff a carp with a farce made of butter, bread crumbs, fine spices, J capers, anchovies, parsley, and green sha- J lots, all finely chopped ; lard it with fillets of fresh anchovies, first soaked" to take out the salt; tie it to a skewer, and then fix it to the spit; cover it over with two or three doubles of paper, well buttered, and baste it with white wine, boiled with some butter, two laurel leaves, and one clove of garlic ; serve with what sauce or ragout you think proper. Carp a la Savanah.*.—Take some live carp, cut- them in fillets, and wipe them with a cloth dipped in brandy ; cut them into pieces of different sizes, and put them into a stewpan with two or three dozen of small onions, which have been previously half dressed ; season with salt, pepper, laurel, and lemon peel; pour over it a sufficient quantity of wine to cover your fish, let the whole boil quickly for two hours, then add some pieces of fried bread. When the fish is quite done, and the sauce reduced, pour the whole into a large dish, and serve it very hot. Canr Sauce.—Cut up a carp in large bits, and put it into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two onions, one carrot, and half a parsnip; soak it till it catches a little ; then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little eullis, a fagot of parsley, cliibbol, a clove of garlic, two of spices, anil a laurel leaf; simmer gently for mi hour, skim it very well, and strain it in a sieve. Carp stewed*—Melt a piece of butter, worked up with some flour in a stewpan; when it is a little browned, mix with it a glass of soup maigre, and add some small onions, cut in slices ; then put in your carp, season with salt, pepper, laurel, and add a pint of red wine ; let it boil slowly till quite done, and the sauce is reduced; then serve. Carp steu-ed*—Scale and clean your carp, cut it in pieces ; brown some butter with a pinch of flour, put in some small onions ; add butter, parsley, cliibbol, sha- lots, thyme, laurel, mushrooms, gratedCAR CAR 127 nutmeg; moisten it with equal quantities of bouillon and red wine, put your carp into this seasoning, and stew it over a good lire. When it is done, serve your carp upon a dish, with toasted bread under it, and pour the sauce over the whole. Carp stewed.*—Bleed them in the tail, wash them clean, put them in a stewpan, with a pint of claret, a pint of gravy, with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, two anchovies, an onion stuck with cloves, some lemon peel, some horseraddisli sliced, nutmeg sliced, and some whole pepper tied in a cloth, when the carp is sufficiently done, strain off the mace ; then put in a little lemon juice; thicken the sauce with burnt butter. Carp stewed with Wine.—Take a carp ; being well cleaned, crimp it two or three times, set it in a stewpan with some good consomme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, and a few peppercorns; let it stew gently between two fires till well done, then take it out, lay it on a dish ; the liquor must stew with three spoons- ful of sauce tournee, till tolerably thick ; if not quite smooth, squeeze it through a tammy ; put in the juice of a lemon, with a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour it over the fish, which must be garnished with veal forcemeat. Carp Tongues (Ragout of).*—Blanch carp tongues in water, with a little salt and vinegar; drain them well; have ready two spoonsful of allemande, and the same of veloute, and boil it up ; add to it, by degrees, a pound of butter ; put in the tongues, and finish it with lemon juice. Carp Roes in Aspic*—Prepare an aspic, as directed for cock’s combs in aspic, and fill it with carp roes, boiled and well sea- soned. Carp Rues d la Bellevue.—Scald the roes in warm water, and prepare a stew- pan with thin slices of bacon, and one slice of ham ; add to this a scalded sweetbread, a fagot of sweet herbs, onions cut into hoops pretty thick, a glass of white wine, whole pepper, and a little salt (or none, if the ham is not very fresh) ; when the sweetbread is almost braised enough, put tjie roes to it, a little broth, and about two dozen of crayfish tails picked; simmer together about a quarter of an hour, then put. the sweetbread into the middle of the dish, with two or three of the onion rings upon it, which you baste with whites of ogga to make them stick the better; fill them with crayfish spawn boiled a mo- tuent iu a good cullis, and the jroes and cray- fish tails round separately ; add some good rich cullis to the sauce, make it pretty thick, strain it in a sieve, and pour it upon the roes .only. Carp Roes (Caisses of).*—Blanch well- washed carp roes; drain them ; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, champignons, parsley, shalots (all chopped small), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice ; do these lightly over tjie fire, taking care not to let them take colour ; add the carp roes to them, and let them simmer a minute. Make a caisse of paper, at the bottom of which lay crumbs ; oil the caisse well and put it on the gridiron over hot ashes ; place the roes on them, and broil them thus. .When done, take them from the caisse, and dish them. Carp Roes, Dutch Fashion.—Boil a dozen of small white onions, scalded in half a pint of white wine, a fagot of sweet herbs, a good bit of butter, pepper, and salt; when three parts done, put scalded carp roes into it, and finish the boiling (they require no longer than time enough to finish the onions very tender) ; reduce the sauce pretty thick ; put the roes into the middle of the dish, and the onions round; mix a little spinach juice with the sauce, to give it a pale green colour, or a strong green if you think proper. Serve the sauce upon the onions only, or in the bottom of the dish, and the rest upon it; garnish it round with fried bread. Carp roes are also dressed as a chicken fricassee, with mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, and white liaison sauce. Carp Roes, English Fashion.—Boil scalded roes about a quarter of an hour in some good jelly broth, seasoned with pepper and salt; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, simmer it a moment without boiling; add a lemon squeeze, and let the sauce be of a mid- dling consistence, neither very thick, nor clear and thin. A la Bechamelle, done with Bechamel sauce; scald them first, and simmer them awhile in it. Carp Rues fricasseed.—Put into a stew- pan a little butter, a dozen small mush- rooms, a slice of ham, the squeeze of a lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Stew it a little time on a slow fire, then add a little flour, and as many carp roes as you think proper, with a little good broth; stew them about a quarter of an hour, and season them with pepper and salt, when you put in the broth. When all is ready, thicken it with the yolks of two or threeCAR 128 CAR eggs, some cream, and a little chopped parsley. Carp Roes fried.—Scald them as usual ; and when they are well drained, marinate about an hour with lemon juice and a little salt; drain and flour them to fry in a very hot frilure, to give them a good brown colour ; drain upon a sieve, or with a cloth ; squeeze an orange over, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Caup Roes (Petits-pdtds maigres of).*— Blanch a fine carp roe in salt and water, cut it in small pieces, about three quarters of an inch square ; place one of these upon each petit-pate, which has been previously filled with a farce fine of carp. Finish them as usual (see Petits-pdtes), and serve them with bechamelle maigre. Carp Roes (Pie of).*—Make & farce as follows : Take a pound of pike or carp, and pound it well; then put with it a quarter of a pound of panada, and pound it again; add a pound and a half of fresh butter, grated bacon or calf’s udder: when all is well mixed, add the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of fine herbs, eight drachms of spiced salt, and a spoonful of veloute, and a quarter of a pound of pounded an- chovies. Take carp roes, and a very fine turbot, cut them in pieces. Slightly warm two pounds of fresh butter with two spoonsful of shalots, four of parsley, cham- pignons and truffles, shred fine. Prepare your pie as usual; garnish the bottom and sides with the farce; lay in some of the turbot; season them with spiced salt, and mask them with a spoonful of butter and sweet herbs, and a little of the farce; then lay the carp roes, seasoned and masked as above ; then the turbot, and so on, till the dish is filled; put in whatever spice and farce may remain, and over the whole lay slices of bacon; cover the pie, and bake it for three hours and a half. When done, remove the top, and pour in melted butter and sweet herbs. Caup Roes (Ragout of).—Soak slices of ham and veal about half an hour, on a slow fire ; then add a good bit of butter, with mushrooms, two cloves, a fagot of sweet herbs, a little basil, a glass of white wine, a little veal gravy and cullis; boil these till the veal is (lone, skim the li- quor, and take out the veal and ham; scald the roes of carp in hot water, and then boil them in this cullis about a quarter of an hour, skimming it well (it ought to bo as thick as very good cream) ; season it with pepper, salt, and a lemon squeezed; when ready, serve it as an entremet. You may make it in maigre, but in tliat case you must have fish for the cullis, instead of ham and veal. CARRAWAY Cake.—Dry a quarter of a peck of fine flour in an oven; rub a pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till it is crumbled so small that none of it is to be seen; then take six spoonsful of rose water, half a pint of canary, half a pint of cream, and three quarters of a pint of new ale yeast, and the whites of two, and yolks of four eggs; mix all these well together, let it lie before the fire, and when you make it up put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuits, andr' three quarters of a pound of carraway comfits. Bake it. Carraway Cakes.—To a pound of flour, add a pound of fresh butter, eight spoons- ful of good yeast, four spoonsful of rose water, the yolks of three eggs, as many carraways as you please, four ounces of sugar, and some ambergris; knead all into a paste, make it up into any form you please, and when they come out of the oven, strew powder sugar. Carraway Comfits.—Take some fine carraway seeds, sift all the dust from them, and have a large copper preserving- pan, about two feet wide, and with two handles and two pieces of iron made as a ring on each side ; then you must have a pulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a hook to each end, so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let it sling; then have some fine starch as white as you can get, and just soften it, boil some syrup a quar- ter of an hour, and mix it with the starch ; take some gum arabic, put it into some water, then put that into another pan, and make it just warm ; have an iron pot with charcoal fire under the large pan, but not too hot, only just to keep the pan warm ; have a large tub to put your pot ot fire at bottom, and your large pan must be on the top; put the carraway seeds into your pan; add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them with your hands until you find they are all dry, then put a ladleful of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan of fire, until you find they are all dry; put the gum only three or four times to them at first, then die starch and sugar, but boil your syrup more as you find they come to coat with it, and not so much starch; when you have dried them seven or eight times, put them into your sieve; put them into the stove, do them the next day, and so, successively, for six or seven days.CAR CAR 129 C .inn aw ay Dragees.*■—Take any quan- tity of carraway seeds you think proper, put them into a preserving-pan, and when quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the size you wish; then proceed as directed for Almond Drugees. Carraway Faffs.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a solkl froth; add to them I sifted sugar and some carraway seeds, pounded very fine ; put the mixture, with a spoon, in pieces about the size of a j shilling, as high as you can, on sheets of I damp wafer paper, and bake them in a slack oven. , Carraway Water.-—-Take three gallons I of proof spirits, and half a gallon of wa- l ter; add to them half a pound of carraway S seeds, bruised; distil and sweeten the i juice with a pound and a half of brown : sugar. CARROTS—If young, need only be wiped when boiled ; if old, they must be i scraped before boiling. Slice them into a i dish, and pour melted butter over them. Carrots an Beurre*—Scrape ten or ' twelve carrots, as near of a size as pos- sible ; cut them into thin slices, blanch i them in water with salt and a small piece i of butter. When done, drain them in a cullender, and then put them into a stew- i pan with a good bit of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, shake them over the i lire, pour to them a spoonful of veloutd, or ' Water only, to prevent the butter from oil- ' ing; do not let it quite boil. You may add fine herbs, if you please. Carrot Cuke*—Take a dozen large and very red carrots ; scrape and boil them in water with a little salt; when done, drain them, take out the hearts, and rub the rest through a bolting-cloth ; put them in a stewpan, and dry them over the fire. | Make a cream pdtissiere, with about half a pint of milk ; and when done mix it with the caiTots; add a pinch of minced orange flowers pralinee, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, four whole eggs ; put Jn, one at a time, the yolks of six more, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; nux all these ingredients together well • whip up the six whites to a froth, and stir them in by degrees. Butter a mould, and put some crumb of bread in it, in a minute or two, turnout all the bread, and three quarters of an hour before the cake is wanted, pour the preparation into the mould and bake it. Serve it hot. Carrots dressed the Dutch Way.—Slice some carrots very thin, and just cover them with water; season them with pepper and salt, cut a good many onions and par- sley small, a piece of butter; let them simmer over a slow fire till done. Carrots a la Flumande.—Reel and par- boil some small carrots, then put them into a stewpan with butter and salt; let them stew over a slow fire till done ; then take them off, and after stirring them up with more butter, serve them. Carrot Fritters.—Beat two or three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon ; add to them six eggs and a handful of flour; moisten them with either cream, milk, or white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all together well, and fry in boiling lard. IV hen of a good colour, take them otf and. squeeze on them the juice of a Seville orange, and strew over fine sugar. Carrots (Garniture of").*—Cut fine carrots into pieces about an inch in length, in the form of musrooms, garlic, or any thing else you may like; blanch them in boiling water with salt and butter, take them out and put them into a stewpan with stock, or consommde and fine sugar; stew it to a glaze, and if your sauce be not thick enough, add a little butter mixed with flour, herbs, and sauce tournee. Serve with fried crusts. Carrots a la d’Orleans.-—Take a few young carrots, turn them of an equal size, and cut them in slices about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and blanch them well. Next, lay them on a cloth to drain; put them into a stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little broth, and let them boil over a large fire ; when reduced to glaze, add a good bit of fresh butter and a little salt. The butter must adhere to the car- rots when you serve, as no sauce ought to be seen. Carrot Pudding.—Boil a large carrot tender, then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit powder, four yolks and two whites of ®§SS> a pint of cream, a little ratafia, a laige spoonful of orange-flower or rose water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow' dish lined with paste; turn it out, and serve with sugar over. Carrots en Puree. — Scrape and cut some carrots in quarters, take out the in- side pale yellow, and do not use it. When you have washed the outsides, boil them in plenty of water, with salt, till tender, then drain them on a sieve, and put them in a stewpan with a good bit of butter; stir them over the lire with a wooden K130 CAU CAR spoon; when tlie butter begins to fry and the carrots well mashed, put in a small ladleful of good consommd, a very little su- gar- and salt; continue to stir them until nearly reduced to the thickness they were at first; add three table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, stir it on the fire for three minutes, and rub it through the tammy in a large dish; if too thick, add a little more consomme, put it in a stewpan, and before it is wanted, stir it over the fire to boil for four or five minutes ; if not strong enough, mix in a bit of glaze. Carrots (Rugont of).*—Cut some car- rots about two fingers in length, shaping them round ; boil them a quarter of an hour in water, and then put them in a 6tewpan with some good stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt; when done, add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the ragout with any dish you please. Cabhots with White Sauce.—Parboil and slice the carrots ; boil them in a pint of water, a small piece of butter, and some salt; when done, and the sauce thick, make it into a sauce, blanch with butter and flour, and serve. . Carrots (Souffles of).—Make a thick 'puree of carrots, but instead of biotli use water, in which put a great deal of sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter ; let all this boil till very tender; then put the yolks of six eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send, beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with the lest, and put it into the oven. Carrot Soup.—Take twelve large red carrots, scrape and wash them clean ; slice the red part thin, with four onions and four heads of celery; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan aud a pound of lean ham, minced (raw); add the roots, and let fiy and draw down till of a glaze, then fill up with three quarts of good stock and let it boil gently till the roots are quite soft; add the crust of a roll, strain the roots from the stock, pound them well in a mortar; add the stock ao-ain, and rub it through a tammy-cloth with wooden spoons ; make it hot again, skim, and season it with salt, pepper, and sugar. Servo with fried bread cut in dice on a plate. . Carrots (Slewed).—Scrape and wash the carrots, then blanch and cut them m slices, next turn them a few times over the lire, with butter, salt, pepper, and shred par- sley • moisten with some milk, and when done thicken the sauce with the yolks of I eggs and serve. Another way.—Put the carrots into a stew-pan with a few slices of bacon, some i parsley, green onions, salt, and pepper, i moistened with stock, or gravy. Let it stew till thick and reduced; serve alto- j; gether. Cassia (Candied). — Pound a little I musk and ambergris with as much of tlie powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- lings. Having pounded them well to- gether, take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height, then put in your pow-der and mix well together. But- ter some pew-ter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. Cassia (Ratafia of ).*—'Take a pound of cassia, half a pound of bitter cherries, a quarter of a pound of cassia leaves, and half a drachin of cinnamon; bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredients in three quarts of brandy for three weeks* I Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart I of water, and mix with the Liqueur, and II let it stand some time longer, then strain I aud bottle it. Cork it up close. Caudle.—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a piece of lemon peel, and nutmeg. Caudle.—Make a fine smooth gruel of - half groats ; wiien boiled, strain it, stir it at times till oold. When wanted for use, add sugar, wine, and lemon peel, with some nutmeg. According to taste, yon may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoonful of brandy or lemon juice. Caudle (Brown).—Boil the gruel the | same as for white caudle, with six spoons- ful of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a quart of good ale, not bitter; boil it, then t sweeten it according to your taste, and add half a pint of white wine. IN ben you I do not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. Caudle (a Flour).—Rub smooth one 1 dessert-spoonful of fine Hour into five large, spoonsful of the very purest water. Put over the fire five spoonsful ot neW milk, add to it two bits ot sugar; the in- i stnnt it boils, pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire tor B twenty minutes. Caudle ( Coh/).—Boil a quart of spring water; when cold, add the volk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonsful |CAU 131 CAU of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and one ounce of syrup of lemons Caudle (Rice).—Mix some grated rice jvith a little cold water, and then pour it into boiling water. When of a proper consistence add sugar, lemon peel, and cinnamon ; to a quart of this put a glass of brandy. Boil all smooth. Caudle ( Whits')*—Mix two spoonsful of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon peel; stir it often, and let it boil full twenty mi- nutes ; strain and sweeten it, add a little white wine, nutmeg, and a little lemon juice. CAULIFLOWERS (to dress). — Cut off the stalks, but leave a little green on ; boil them in spring water and salt; they are soon done, but they must not boil too fast. They may also be dressed in milk and water without salt. Second may.—Blanch the cauliflowers a short time with a slice of streaky bacon, butter and salt; when about half done, put them in a stewpan, with a little blond, or veal gravy; reduce the sauce, and serve very hot. • Cauliplowehs and Butter.*— Prepare two cauliflowers, and when they are drain- ed, cut them in pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some salt, and lemon juice; let them boil a little at first, then simmer; take care they are not done too much. Take them out, cover them with a sauce made with butter, worked with flour, the yolks of eggs, and a little cream. Cauliflowers and Cheese*—Make a sauce with cullis, a bit of butter, and pep- • per, but no salt. Put in a dish some grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, place the cauliflowers (previously washed, pick- ed and boiled) on this ; pour the sauce over, and cover them with slices of Par- mesan cheese, warmed, to make them ad- here to the cauliflower. Colour it with a salamander. Cauliflowers (Fried).—Pick, wash, and throw them into boiling water, with a “ttle salt, and when three parts done, take wem out, drain and put them into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper, and vine- ear; beat them up in this, and then fry ‘hem in a batter made as follows : Three spoonsful of flour, two eggs, a little salt, some oil, and a tea-spoonful of brandy. Ut-LtFLowKns (Fried).*— When your ; un(lowers are about three parts done, j e a thick white sauce, in which toss ‘ 1 up, and then let them cool; just be- fore wanted, dip them in batter, and fry* them in a hot pan; when of a nice colour, serve them. They may also, when boiled and drained, be soaked in vinegar, salt, and pepper, in which they should be toss- ed up, instead of the white sauce, and then fried. Cauliflowers a la Ge noise*—After the cauliflowers are boiled, and are cold, sprin- kle them with Gruyere and Parmesan, cheese grated ; put them in a dish, but- tered and strewed with cheese. Cover the cauliflowers with a thick white sauce, mixed with grated cheese. Strew bread crumbs on this, then pour butter over, then more bread crumbs. Put the dish on hot ashes, and brown the tops. Cauliflowers and Gravy.*—Blanch and drain the cauliflowers, heat them up in a little veal gravy or blond; when done, place it on a dish, and add any other gravy you may think proper. Be careful not to break the cauliflower. Cauliflower Loaf.* — Trim and par- boil a fine cauliflower, then put it into cold water, and drain it. Line the bottom of a stewpan (of the size of the dish you intend to use), with slices of bacon, and place the cauliflower on them, with the head downwards. Make a stuffing with a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, all chopped small, salt, pep- per, and three eggs; when these are well mixed together, put it into the open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing it in with the hand; season it well, and stew it with some stock. When the sauce is consumed, turn tlie cauliflower out carefully on the dish, take away the bacon, and pour over it some cullis, with a little butter, and serve. r Cauliflowers d la l\Iagnonnaise.*—-■ The cauliflowers, thoroughly washed and cleared of their leaves, must be put into boiling water, butter and salt; when firm, take the saucepan from the fire, and let the cauliflower cool in the water. As soon as they are cold, drain and put them into oil, vinegar, salt, and a mignonette, to soak for two hours. Dish them in the form of a pyramid, as high as you can; mask them with a white magnonnaise, and place round them a border of aspic jelly, cut in triangles. Cauliflowers (Pickled).--Pull the largest and closest cauliflowers into sprigs; put them into an earthen dish, and sprinkle salt over them. Let them stand twenty* lour hours; then put. them into a jar, and pour salt and boiling water over them, k 2CED 132 CEC Cover them close, and let them stand till next day; then take them out, and lay them on a coarse cloth to drain. Put them into glass jars, with a nutmeg sliced, and some mace in each. Cover them with distilled vinegar, and secure them from the air. They will be lit to eat in a month. Another way *—Cut the cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them into boiling water for a quarter oflan hour ; then lay them on cloths to drain. Put them in a jar with cloves and salt, and cover them with the Lest vinegar. Cauliflowers (Potage of)*-'Take two cauliflowers, boil, and then drain them, pressiug them a little : then thicken a little bechamel maigre with the yolks of six eggs, and add a quarter of a pound of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; put m the cauliflowers ; and when cold, divide them into pieces about the size of a pigeon s ego-; roll them in flower, and fry them in clarified butter : drain, and put them in vour soup-tureen, and pour over them some rich consommi. Serve it with grated cheese in a separate dish. Cauliflowers (Ragout of}.—Pull two small, or one large cauliflower into pieces, and stew them in a rich brown cullis, sea- soned with pepper and salt; put them on a dish, and pour the cullis over them. Garnish with sprigs of cauliflower, boiled very white. Cauliflowers a la Reine.—Make a sauce ■with a little ham and fillet of veal cut in dice, a little butter, chopped parsley, sha- lots, and a clove of garlic ; let it stew over the fire a little while, then add a few spoonsful of jelly broth, and half a pint of cream ; reduce it to a good thickness, strain part of it into your dish, and place the cauliflower (properly prepared) there- in ; pour the remaining sauce over that: n-arnish with bread crumbs, and small bits of butter, and brown it in the oven. Cauliflowers in Salad *-When you have prepared and boiled the cauliflowers, drain and let them cool; cut them m pieces: season them with salt, PePP^» oil, and vinegar, and eatthem as any other CJ.'CII S Mix over the fire for a few minutes the following ingredients: Minced meat of whatever kind you please, bread crumbs, plenty of onion, iemon peel, nut- me<r, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, a little butter, and’some anchovies. When nearly cold roll them up into balls about the size of an’ egg ; moisten them with egg ; strew bread crumbs over them, and fry them of a good clear colour : serve them with made gravy. CED RATS (Blancmange of).*—-Grate rind of a cedrat upon some sugar in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar have been used ; blanch and pound a pound of sweet almonds, moistening them with water ; when perfectly smooth, dilute them with five glasses of water put in by de- grees ; then pour them in a napkin, and squeezing it, express the milk of almonds from them; divide this into two equal . parts, with one of which mix the six ounces 1 of sugar with the cedrat, and with the | other°portion, mix the same quantity of j plain sugar ; as soon as both are dissoli ed, I strain them, and put in each half an ounce of isinglass : your mould being placed in ice, pour into it the white blancmange to three quarters of an inch in depth ; as soon as that is set, pour in an equal quantity of the other, which ought to be of a clear • yellow ; when that also is set, pour in some • white, and so on alternately, till the mould is full. Turn out the blancmange as directed . in Blancmange a la Francoise. Blancmanges of the zests of oranges, le- mons, &c. are made in this manner. Cedrat (Consei-ve of).—Prepare hal: a pound of sugar to the ninth degree ; put : about an ounce of grated cedrat to it, ana mix it; when the sugar is half cold, add a . little lemon juice, mix it well with ai wooden spoon ; warm the whole for a mo- ■ ment, and pour into it paper cases made ■ for the purpose ; when it is cool, cut ltm cakes of what size you please. Cedrat (Conserve of.*- Rub the rind of a fine sound cedrat on a piece of lump sugar, scraping it as you proceed ; dissoH e this sugar in lemon juice. Boil sugar■ ( pound for each cedrat) to fort perU, then put in the cedrat and lemon, and proceed in the usual wav. If you have no iresh cedrat, the preserved cedrat must be used as follows : Pound half or a quarter of one of these fruits, pound and pass it throng a sieve, and mix it with sugar boiled as above, and lemon juice. , Cedrat (Conserve of*—Grate t >e of a cedrat all round, until the .puce is r. ady to ooze out; this must be done by r.ibbmg it against a large piece of pound) ; remove the surface of tins -UR to which the grated ri.ul adheres udb a knife, and squeeze to it half the puce of j cedrat. Dissolving tlie remainder 0^0 sugar to the degree grande ph'™e> t!' , a it from die fire, and when it has stoodCED 133 C ED I little while, put in your cedrat, stirring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice forms on : the top ; you may then pour your conserve into moulds. Be careful not to put it in : too hot. Cedrat Cream an Bain Marie.*—Rasp i the rind of a cedrat on a piece of sugar weighing ten ounces, scrape oft’ the surface, and rasp again as usual; infuse this sugar in boiling milk ; cover and let it stand till nearly cold, then mix it gradually with ten yolks, one whole egg, and a grain of salt. Strain, and finish as usual. See Cream ait Bain Marie. Cedrats (Distilled Cream of).*—Infuse the rinds of four very fine cedrats in three I quarts of the best brandy, and a pint of water; close the vessel tight, and let it stand several days. At the end of that time distil it in the bain-marie. If the brandy is of the proper strength, the three quarts will yield two of the liquor ; to which put threepoundsand a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints and a half of water; pass the whole through a straining-bag, or filter it through paper. Oil of cedrats is made in the same manner, with the addition of a pound and a half more sugar, and half a pint of water. Cedrat Cream a la Franpoise.*—Rasp the rinds of two cedrats on ten ounces of sugar; which mix with the yolks of eight eggs, a grain of salt; add gradually five glasses of nearly boiling milk, stirring it constantly. The remainder of the opera- tion is the same as in making Cacao Cream u. la Frunpoise. Cedrat Cream Pdiissiere.*—Rasp the rind of a cedrat in the usual way, on a quarter of a pound of sugar; crush with the latter an equal weight of sweet and six bitter macaroons ; add this mixture to the cream, prepared as directed. See Cream Pulissiere. Cedrats, dried, Whole or in Quarters.— Take some preserved cedrats either whole ' or in quarters, wash them in a little warm water ; boil some syrup in another pan, till I it comes to blow ; take a large spoon, and ! rub it well to the sides of the pan till it j comes white; dip your cedrats in, take ■ them out and put them on wires over another ; pan; let them drain well, then put them mto a hot stove on the wires for one day, till the candy dries all round them ; when well dried, put them into boxes, and lay a paper between every layer of cedrats. Cedrat Zeste ( Fromage Bavarois of).*— Take half a pound of lump sugar, rasp on it the zest of cedrat, and as the surface of the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off, and rasp again; dissolve the sugar in two glasses of nearly boilingmilk ; cover it, and when nearly cold, mix with it six drachms of clarified isinglass, then strain, and place it in a hoi, in ice; and when it begins to take, add to it the cream, and finish as Fro- mage Bavarois. Cedrat (Preserved) Gcnoises.*—Add to the usual ingredients (see Genoise), the peel of a cedrat, grated on the sugar used ; when glazed, strew over them a quarter of a pound of preserved cedrat, cut small; dry them a minute or two in the oven. Cedrat Ices.—Take a piece of loaf sugar, and have a fresh and sound cedrat, which you must grate over a piece of paper, on the piece of loaf sugar, scraping with a knife what sticks upon the sugar of the skin of the cedrat ; when you have thus taken off the outer rind of the cedrat, by rasping or grating it on the sugar, take a little clarified sugar, boiled very fine, which add to the raspings or gratings of the cedrat, with what quantity of juice of lemon you think requisite for the quantity of ices you intend making, and a little water; pass the whole through a sieve, then ice it, and finish the same as all other ices. Cedrat Ice Cream.—Take two large spoonsful of essence of cedrat, put it into a basin, squeeze in three lemons, and add one pint of cream ; be careful that all the essence is melted ; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Cedrat Water Ice.—Take four ounces of essence of cedrat, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of three lemons, two gills or syrup, and half a pint of water; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich, and if you would have it in the shape of a cedrat, after you have filled your mould, close it well, and cover it with half a sheet of brown paper before you put it in the ice. Cedrats Zestes (Jelly of).9—Take three quarters of a pound of lump sugar, grate on it the zests of two cedrats, and, as the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off with a knife, and grate again, and so on till all the zest is gone; dissolve the scraped sugar in two glasses of water, and, with the juice of four lemons, pass it through a jelly- bag. Clarify the remainder of the sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a small pre- serving-pan ; boil it to caramel height, to colour the jelly; mix this, tho fruit, the syrup, and an ounce of isinglass together, and finish in the usual way.CEL CED 134 Cedrats Whole, Liquid.—Get the ce- .drats atthe Italian warehouse ; make a hole ,through the middle of tbematthethick end ; put them in a large preserving-pan with water, and boil them one hour and a half; then drain all the water from them ; set them up endwise, to drain the water out of the ends ; boil some syrup in a large pre- serving-pan twenty minutes, then put the Cedrats into a large, earthen, deep pan, pour the syrup over them, and let them Stand two days before you touch them ; then boil them with syrup half an hour ; Slo not let them he too soft), put them into e pan, and cover them with paper ; the pext day drain the syrup from them, boil and pour it on them again, and repeat it so for ten days, always keeping them covered with syrup; when done, put them into your pots, and when cold cover them with apple jelly ; take care your pots are dry. Cedhat Madelaines.*—Grate on some sugar the rinds of two cedrats; crush this sugar, and mix it with as much powder sugar as will make together nine ounces; put it into a stewpan with half a pound of sifted flour, kix whole and four yolks of eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye brandy, pnd a little salt; stir this mixture well, until the paste is formed, after which stir it one minute, but no longer. When your jnoulds are buttered, put nine ounces of clarified b.utter into the preparation, which must be placed over a very slow fire, stir it lightly, and as soon as it becomes liquid, pour a spoonful into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. Instead of cedrats may be substituted fhe rind of oranges (sweet or Seville), lemons, or crisped orange flowers. Cedrat (Preserved) Madelaines*—Cut two ounces of preserved cedrat into small equal-sized pieces, which mix with the paste when about to be put into the moulds. jVo other odour must be put. in. Cedrat Pudding, en Timbale*—Cut the crumb of a roll into slices, and pour over them two glasses of boiling milk, set it on the fire, and stir it cousttintly, till it becomes a very spongy paste ; then rub it in a mortar with six yolks and two whole eggs. Put this paste into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar (on which the zest of a cedrat has been rasped), two ounces of bitter macaroons, three of dried currants, three ol raisins, stoned and cut in half, six of marrow, shred fine, half a glass of Madeira, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. W hen these ingredients are well mixed together, pour them into a buttered mould, and bake' it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Cedrat Water,—Take a large wooden spoonful of the essence of cedrat, put it in a basin, squeeze three lemons; add three gills of syrup, and a sufficient quan- tity of water; make it according to your taste, be careful that all the essence is melted ; and if it is not rich enough, add more syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Cedrat Water.—Take the yellow rinds of five cedrats, a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water; digest the whole in a vessel close stopped for twenty-four hours, then draw off one gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. { Another uiay.*—Distil in an alembic bain-marie, the rinds of four cedrats and one lemon, in three pints of brandy; from this you may draw nearly a pint and a half of liqueur. Dissolve two pounds of refined sugar in a pint of pure river water, mix it with the liqueur, filter and bottle it. Celery.—This root is generally put into soups, but very bttle is sufficient, as the flavour is much stronger than other Vegetables. _ :■ To make a rugout for meat with it, soak' and wash it well in cold water; then boil for half an hour, and shift it into cold water; drain it well, and stew it with some stock and cullis; take the fat oft, season, and serve it. When very white and tender it is eaten raw, and as a salad, with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and mustard. Celery Cream.—Put hall a pint ofcremn and a pint of milk into a stewpan, with nearly a quarter of a pound of sugar, and let it' boil till a third is consumed ; take two heads of celery, let them boil in the cream just time enough to flavour it. Strain the cream and beat up with it the yolks of five eggs, a little flower, and set it in hot water over the fire, taking care it does not boil. It you wish to serve it cold, put in neither eggs nor flour, but when the cream is strained, and is luke- warm, mix it with rennet, strain and put it into a dish for table; set it over hot embers, put a cover over, and hot embers on that, and let it remain till the cream is set; keep it in a cool place till ready to serve. „ i j Celery Cream.*—Cut two well-washed heads of celerv into small pieces, and boll them in half a pint of water ; strain the decoction, and add to it a pint ot cream.133 CEL four ounces of sugar, a little coriander and cinnamon, the zest of a lemon, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; reduce it over the five, to half the quantity, and whilst the cream is lukewarm, put in some "gizzards, chopped very small; stir them well in, and then strain it; place it in hot cinders, cover it, and put fire also on the top; when the cream is set, place it on ice to cool. Celery (Fried).*—Blanch theheartand white leaves of celery, and stew it in a little stock; dry it in cloths; cut it in .pieces, and dip them in good plain hatter, and frv them. Sprinkle salt over them .when you serve. Another way.—Wash and cut off the .green tops of six or eight heads of fine celery, and dip each head into batter made as follows : A pint of white wine, the yolks of three eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg; fry the heads in butter. Serve with melted butter over. Celery Fritters *—Take about a dozen iieads of celery, and cut them six inches above the roots, which must be rounded ; ■wash them well, blanch them for a quarter of an hour, then let them cool and drain ; tie them up in four packets ; line a stew- pan with slices of bacon, and put on them your celery, a bunch of herbs, seasoned with salt, and moistened with pot-top, cover them with bacon and paper ; stew them, and when done drain and press them. Then soak them in brandy and sugar; dip them in batter, and fry them. Drain, glaze, and serve them. Celery for Garniture.*—For this pur- pose the heart and white leaves onty must be used. Brown in a stewpan, a little fat, and a spoonful of flour ; add a small quantity of stock, parsley, salt, and pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put 1 in the celery, and some gravy, and reduce ; them over the fire. Celery' an Gratin.—Take a dozen heads -of white celery, trim off the stringy parts, and cut the rest into pieces about the size of a shilling ; boil them tender, and then stew them in good consomme with a bit of butter, a little sugar and salt. When nearly done drain and toss them up in some bechamelle, with the yolk of an egg; put them in a dish, and shake some fine bread crumbs over, and with a spoon sprinkle some clarified butter on that, and then bread crumbs again. Brown it with a sala- jnander. Celery (Puree of).—Cut the whitest part of several heads of celery, and blanch them in water to take out the bitter taste j let it cool and drain. Then put it into a stewpan, with a little consomme and sugar. Let it stew for an hour and a half, and be reduced till no moisture remains, then mix it with four spoonsful of Mchamelle or veloute; strain the whole through a tammy, and put it in the bain- marie. When ready to serve, put in a little thick cream. Celery (Ragout of).—Cut the white darts into lengths, and boil it till tender, fry and drain, and flour it, put it into some rich gravy, a little red wine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and ketchup. Boil it up. Celery Sauce.—Cut a dozen heads of fine celery into pieces about an inch in length ; blanch and put them into a small stewpan, with consomme enough to cover them, a small bit of butter, a little sugar and salt, and lay a round paper over the whole ; let them stew gently, till nearly done, then shake them up in bechamelle sauce. Second way.—Cut boiled celery into pieces two inches long; put them into a stewpan with some veal gravy which tastes strong of spices and herbs, thicken it with three quarters of a pound of butter rolled in flour, and half a pint of cream ; boil it up, and squeeze in some lemon juice. Celery as a Garnish *—Blanch about a pound of fillet of veal in some stock; stick it with stalks of celery, in the same manner as larding it; slice some onions into a stewpan, also two carrots, and a small piece of bacon stuck with cloves; lay in the veal, and let it stew gently till it begins to burn, and stick to the bottom of the pan ; then put in a little stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for three hours. Pass it through an un- bleached napkin, and serve with whatever meat you please. Garnish your dish with the veal cut in pieces and laid round. Celery Sauce (Brown). — Cut into lengths as before ; boil and drain it; put in some good gravy, with a little flour, mixed in smooth, a little ketchup, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; boil all up together. Celery Soup.—Neatly trim and wash two dozen heads of fine celery, split each in two, and put them to blanch in a large stewpan of water with plenty of salt; when tender drain them on a sieve, and stir them over the fire, with about three ounces of butter, and a very little sugar and salt. When the butter begins to look clear, mix in a ladleful of consomme; when that has boiled for a few minutes and the136 CHA CHA celery is perfectly mashed, stir in three table-spoonsful of sauce townie, and when this is well boiled rub the whole through a tammy; add a pint of strong consammi, and nearly as much thick cream. Put it into the soup-pot, and half an hour before you want it, set it on the lire to boil, and skim it. Serve it with celery cut round, blanched, and stewed. If you wish the soup to be brown instead of white, use espagnole, and no cream. Celery (Stewed).—Boil till tender the white part in milk and water, with three ounces of butter; drain it. Stir some cream over the fire, with two yolks of eggs, put in the celery, salt, pepper, mace, and grated lemon peel; shake all together, but do not let it boil. Another way.—Boil a dozen heads of celery in salt and water till nearly done ; then set them to stew between lards of fat bacon, with consommi enough to cover them; when very tender drain them on a sieve, and serve with good btchamelle sauce. Celery on Toast.—Cut some well-but- tered toast into pieces about three inches square, lay on them celery stewed accord- ing to the second receipt, and serve it to table. CHAMBORD.—This is a ragcut made of cocks’comb, cocks’ kidneys, fat livers, and fowls’ eggs. The combs must be scalded as follows : Put them into a towel with coarse salt, then holding each corner of the towel, dip the part containing the combs into boiling water, leave it in for a minute, and then take it out and rub the whole together, to take off the first skin that is about the combs, and open your towel; if the combs be not sufficiently skinned, dip them into boiling water a second time, but they must not get too firm, as that will prevent their whitening. When properly skinned, pare the little black points that the blood may be taken out. Put them into a pint of water and let them lay on a corner of the stove with very little fire, for two hours; then blanch and put them into a little Mane; take care not to do them two much ; the kidneys must not boil, as they would break; boil the egn-s a little to take off the first skin, throw the whole into blanc, and when the combs are done, have ready some espagnole, and a pint of Madeira (both reduced and then mixed together), with large mush- rooms turned, and some small quenelles, which have been poached separately. Mix all together, and drain the ragout, the combs, the kidneys, and the eggs. Pot the whole into the sauce with the quenelles; stir gently, not to break the latter ; season it well. Add to the above, a garnish of soft roes of carp, some good-sized crayfish, , and two spoonsful of essence of anchovies. . To poach the quenelles, two spoons must be used, fill one with the farce which lias been levelled all round with a knife dipped into boilingwater. With the other spoon, which is also lying in boiling water, take ■ the quenelles out, and put them into a but- tered stewpan, and boil them for a quarter • of an hour. A small quantity of salt is required in the water. CHANTILLY Bashet.—Dip some ra- tafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to caramel height; place them round the in- side of a dish ; then cut more ratafia cakes into squares, dip them also into sugar, and pile them cornerwise on the row, and so on for two or three stories high. Line the inside with wafer paper, and fill it with sponge biscuit, sweetmeats, blanched al- monds, or some made cream; put trifle over that, and garnish the froth with rose leaves, coloured comfits, or caramel sugar thrown lightly over the top. CHAR.—Cleanse them, cut oft' the fins; tails, and heads, and lay them in rows in a long baking-pan, first seasoning them with pepper, salt, and mace. When done, let them stand till cold, pot them', and pour clarified butter over. CHARDS «it Gras.9—Blanch and dress them the same as celery; boil them quickly in water, with salt and a little butter; drain and put them in a stewpan, with butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and blond. Vi hen nearly done, add a little veijuice or vinegar; thicken the sauce, and serve quite hot. Char os a la Venitienne. — Prepare the cliards the same as Chards an Gras, and finish in the same manner as for Cardoons and Cheese. CHARLOTTE of Apples. — Cut a suf- ficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apples into the dish in layers, till the dish is full, strew- ing sugar and bits of butter between. In the mean time, soak ns many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk; over which place a plate, and a weight, to keep the bread close upon the apples ; let it bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish, you should use half a pound of butter for the whole.CIIA 1 $7 CHA Charlotte.*—This entremets may be made of any kind of fruit you please, and eaten hot. If apples are used, pare, core, and cut about a score of them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with some water, a good piece of fresh butter, powder sugar, pounded cinnamon, and grated lemon peel, and stew till the water is dried up; then set them to cool in an I earthenware vessel. Cut some very thin i slices of crumb of bread, dip them in i melted fresh butter, and la v them neatly i all over the bottom and round the sides of I the mould; then pour in the apples, leav- Iing a hole in the middle, in which put apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with bread, sliced thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a hot oven, bake it an hour, and i turn it out. I Another way *—Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bot- tom, and line the sides of a baking-dish Tubbed with butter. Slice apples thin, place them on the bread, strew powder sugar over, and bits of butter ; then put a layer of apples, sugar, and butter, and so on till you have filled the dish. Have ready some bread, cut thin and soaked in warm milk ; lay a plate on the charlotte, I and a weight on that. Bake it in a slow oven for three hours. Half a pound of butter is the proper quantity. Charlotte a la Franfoise.*—This char- lotte is made in the same way as that a la Parisienne, only that croquettes a la Pa- risienne, and a cream blancmange are used, instead of the biscuits and frontage havarois. Tinish it in the same way. Charlotte a l'Italienne* — Make a | small entremets or rum gtnoises, cut in i pieces like spoon biscuits, with which line j a plain round mould, fill the charlotte with 1 rum cream-plombiere, with the addition of i four drachms of clarified isinglass; cover ! the cream with gtnoises, and finish in the | Usual way. ; Charlotte a la Parisienne *—Take a j quarter of a pound of well-glazed spoon 1 biscuits, and a small case of green pista- chio biscuits, which must be cut in thin slices, and then formed into lozenges; ar- 1 range these at the bottom of a plain octagon mould, in the form of a star, and with the ’ remainder cover the sides of the mould, placing them upright, and the glazed sides next the mould ; fill the interior with a yanilla fromage-bavarois, but do not put it ln till the moment before it is sent to bmle; then cover the fromage with bis- cuits, and surround the mould with pounded ice for about forty minutes, then turn it on a dish for table. Chartreuse. — Prepare some apples, and place them in a dish like apples a la Turque, in a puree; pare and quarter and trim a dozen nonpareils, stew them in sugar as for a compote. Warm some cur- rant jelly and apricot jam, dip the quarters alternately into each, and place them on the apples according to your taste. Warm the whole very gently. Chartreuse a la Parisienne en Surprise.* —Boil eight fine truffles in some white wine, and when cold, skim and cut them lengthwise with a root-cutter, half an inch in diameter; then take a hundred crayfish tails (or carrots prepared as for chartreuse printanierre'), trim, and lay them at the bottom of a buttered mould, on them place the truffles round the sides of the mould, so as to form an ornamental border, of some open, pleasing pattern, the spaces between the truffles being filled with the filets mignuns of chickens, previously browned in butter, and properly trimmed. On the top of this border lay a crown or ring of the crayfish tails to correspond with the bottom, and cover the whole to the thick- ness of an inch, with a quenelle farce, pretty firm; then fill the middle with a blanquette of fowl, veal or lamb sweet- bread, or a ragout, or any thing else you may think proper, leaving three quarters of an inch space at the top, which must be filled with a farce; cover the whole with a buttered paper, and put it in the bain- marie for an hour and a half. When turned out of the mould, make a crown of small white champignons, lay this on the top near the edge, and in the centre a single champignon, round which place eight filets mignons, in the form of a rosette. Chartreuse Printanierre*—Scrape two bunches of carrots and two of turnips, and then cut them into pieces, about two inches long and three quarters of an inch in diameter, and throw them into cold water; blanch them, and then separate them. When cold, put them into some good stock with a small quantity of sugar, and set them on the edge of the stove until nearly done, when they should be placed over a hot stove. In the mean while take the trimmings of the carrots and turnips, a dozen onions, with a few cloves, six heads ot celery, and two lettuces, moisten them with some good stock, and let the whole simmer gently, skimming it well, until the vegetables are thoroughly done; then strain the liquor from them; and when itCHE CUE 138 has stood a little time, strain it again, so that it may he quite clear, then stir up with some espagnole. Take three small cabbages cut into quar- ters, blanch them, open each quarter, and season it with a little salt; tie them up, and put them in a stewpau, lined with ham and bacon, with a sausage, a piece of ba- con, two small partridges larded, parsley, and green onions, season the whole, and cover it with slices of bacon, moisten it with pocle or cansornmc, and let it stew over a gentle lire for two hours. Whilst the above is cooking, drain the carrots and turnips, and place them ac- cording to fancy in a buttered mould, so as to cover the sides and bottom completely; then (bain the cabbages in a cullender, and press the other ingredients in a napkin; trim the bacon, and cut the sausages into thin slices ; lay the cabbages lightly in the mould, then the bacon and sausages like a cord; then place the partridges, breasts downwards, the bacon and sausages on them, and fill the mould (making the top quite flat) with the cabbages; lay a buttered paper over the whole, and put it into the bain-marie for an hour. Before it is turned from the mould let it drain well; when ready for table, the dish and char- treuse may he ornamented in various ways, according to fancy. CHEESE.—To select good cheese is a department of marketing that requires great judgment; a nice palate, and a sen- sitive nose are the two chief requisites ; but the eye is a necessary organ, not only for detecting what escapes the inquiry of these senses, as mites, decay, &c., but with good judges it will usually tell a prime cheese from an indifferent one, by the texture and colour alone. . In choosing this necessary article, at- tention must be paid to the appearance of the rind. Cheshire cheese, from a good dairy, is in its prime at two years, pro- vided it has been well kept. A damp Storehouse produces premature decay, and fills it with mites. Cheese, even of the finest quality, is apt to deceive those unacquainted with the article, both in taste and smell, when judging by the taster, or when first cut, as it will frequently possess a strong and unpleasant flavour, although in a few days after being cut, exposure to the air will render it pure and agreeable to the smell and taste. It is hence the custom with experienced caterers to lay in a stock of Cheshire cheese, and to keep it in a dry cellar in sawdust, in a box, by which, in two or three months, it improves, and is fit to cut. It is then well to divide it into two parts, or to take out a fourth, accord- ing to its size ; spread butter on the part t to be reserved, and keep it in a dry place; that for use should be exposed in the larder on the cheese-shelf, three or four days, when it will be ready for the table. A cer- | tain late worthy alderman and vintner, i famed for his knowledge of the larder, for many years was accustomed to put Che- shire cheeses in a sack, cover them with a basket, and bury them under his summer stock of coals, and in the winter, as they reduced, he used to say, “ Now is the time for my old Cheshire.” No cheese of equal flavour, perhaps, was eaten in the city of London. We speak of Cheshire, par excellence, as the most piquant and fine-flavoured of English cheese, although the modem gour- mands are pleased to designate the Stilton cheese the British Parmesan. Good Stilton, however, such'as may be purchased at Cullum’s in Old Bond-street, is a treat for the most refined palate, and is generally preferred at the tables of the great, even bv those Amphytrions, whose authority few will be hardy enough to dispute. Stilton cheese, made in May or June, is usually served at table at Christmas. If made at a capital dairy, however, it is ini better order at ten, or even twelve months, or, if well managed, even at a later period. . It is customary with certain tavern- keepers to produce an artificial ripeness on Stilton, to please those pseudo con- noisseurs, their vain customers, who boast loudly of their superior taste in these mat- ters, when in the chair, and who verify the couplet of the inimitable poet— “ Doubtless the pleasure is ns great In being cheated as to cheat.” Mine host manages the matter thus : A Stilton, -with a nigged and picturesque coat, is tapped, and in the nperture is in- serted a small piece of mile-touched old Cheshire, and then stopped with a wet cloth. In three weeks or a month it is ripe enough, and relished by the convives with its concomitnnt, a glass of port, as a bonne bouche fit for the gods ! - Certain epicures are accustomed to male a conical excavation on the top ol a Stilton, and to pour therein from two to tour glasses, or even more, of port, claret, or Madeira wine, which being absorbed for three weeks or a month, they maintain.CIIE CHE 139 improves its flavour. There is no dis- puting with a variety of tastes. On some occasions an accidental flavour may be thus attained, which may be palatable ; but, on the authority of one of the best judges of these matters, we venture to say, that jnany a prime Stilton has been spoiled by such whimsical practices; and we are as- sured, ns well by the dairyman, clieese- i monger, and the first cooks, that that is the finest Stilton, which ripens without any artificial aid. North Wiltshire cheese has long ac- quired deserved celebrity, being rich, and of fine flavour; these are fit for the table at nine months, but, if carefully kept, they j are in perfection at twelve months. Double Gloucester is also a cheese in | great repute, and if made at a good dairy 1 is in prime order from nine to twelve i months. This makes an excellent Welsh i rabbit, and is capital for a stew, if care- i fully dressed in a cheese-toaster. . Single Gloucester, which, when success- J fully made, is of a fine delicate flavour, is i| generally used at the taverns for a Welsh ■{ rabbit. It is fit for the table in five or six :] months. j Derby cheese, however, when from the I test dairies, being of a delicate flavour, ;; and agreeable texture, is preferred to all ' Others, by the cognoscenti, for toasting. A Welsh rabbit, capitally cooked, of Derby- ! shire cheese, is served with eclat at the j best-appointed tables. I . Cheddar cheese is also in high esteem - at the best tables. It is in its prime from 1 nine to twelve months, j Dunlop cheese, made in the parish of j Dunlop, in Ayrshire, is in high esteem at ! the first Scottish tables, and is considered a handsome present to an English family; and due honours are paid to the Ayrshire dairies, as often ns it is set upon the Eng- lish board. The Great Unknown has cele- t prated the Dunlop cheese in his “ Heart of Mid Lothian.” !, • Of cream cheeses, there are various sorts, 1 and for which the English dairies are : famed. Amongst others, the Cottenham, .When in its prime, is of delicious flavour. !' .The Eath cream cheese is also delectable, and others, which are eaten equally new, u particularly those from a certain town in |! Bedfordshire, the name of which we do not recollect; these, and many more of excellent quality, are thin in form; the Stilton is also a cream cheese, though amongst the thickest that come from an English dairy. Of foreign cheese, the Parmesan, which being first made at Parma, in Italy, hence derives its name, still maintains pre-emi- nence over all others. The manufacture of this cheese was formerly confined to the dairies of Parma and Piacenza; and where, for a long period, the best wera made : of late, however, the district of Lodi is most celebrated for this cheese. The Gruyere from Switzerland, the Rochefort made of ewes’ milk, and the Neufcbatel from Prance, are cheeses served as delicacies upon an English table; but the true English Cheshire is held superior to all these, even by the learned gastrono- mists of Paris. In having the care of the cheese for the parlour, or for the family in general, says an anonymous writer, let a broad hanging shelf be hung, either in the wine or strong beer cellar, as neither rats nor mice can then get at the cheese. If you keep cream cheeses, put them between two plates or dishes to ripen, with some fresh leaves from the garden, and turn them every morning; and for all other cheeses have a rack or two made in the cellar, for it will be a means of improving them daily. A large space iu the rank should be left for the Cheshire, brickbat, and dolphin cheeses, &c. &c.; and nothing improves them more, or makes them go fur- ther, than putting three or four on each pipe or cask of wine, and brushing and turning them every week ; but if there are no casks of wine, put them on the tops of the strong beer casks. Cheese, even of an inferior quality, if thus managed, will be- come much richer, fine, and mellow. They must be turned alternately. The cheese should not be brought from the rack to the parlour, but at the moment it is wanted, and should be returned to the rack as soon as taken from table. Be careful to use those that are ripe and mel- low first. Cheeses of all sorts are known to be the best which have smooth thin coats, and those chosen which are the heaviest; for, although they be of the same size, yet they differ materially iu that point; as all fat,, good cheese is the heaviest. The round Dutch cheese, of the best quality, and not too salt, which is a com- mon failing with them, is not unfrequently used for toasting, and with success. This, and other cheeses, made of skim milk, are considered better for that purpose, and eat richer and more agreeably to the palate than even the best North Wiltshire, indu-140 CIIE CIIE bitaldyone of the richest of English cheeses. The fatty richness of this material consti- tutes not the desired properties for toast- ing-, as the inferior cheeses are, when toasted, found to he richer, softer in con- sistence, less ropy, and superior in flavour, than even Stilton. Cheeses that become tainted with mites, are recommended by a Derbyshire lady, well acquainted with the operations of the dairy, to be wiped, and then put into a pot in which mutton has been cooked, whilst the water is yet hot, and made to boil a few seconds, then to he taken out, immediately wiped, dried, and put away in a dry place. Cheese (Artificial).—Take a gallon of new milk, two quarts of cream, nutmeg-, mace, and cinnamon, all well pounded; boil these in milk; then put in eight eggs, six or eight spoonsful of wine vinegar to turn the milk ; let it boil till it comes to a tender curd ; tie it up in a cheese-cloth, and let it hang six or eight hours to drain; then open it, take out the spice, sweeten it with sugar and rose water; put it into a cullender, let it stand an hour more, then turn it out, and serve it up in a dish, with cream under it. Cheese Brioche *—Make a brioche in the usual way, and when ready for baking, spread it over the hoard, and strew over it some Gruyere cheese, cut into dice, in the proportion of a quarter of a pound of cheese to a pound of brioche paste. Roll it out as usual, take- off about an eighth part, and put the largest portion into the mould or case, dorez it; then take the remainder of the brioche and place it on the top, so as to form a sort of head to the other ; dorez and trim it. When it has been in the oven about two hours, take it out gently, and if the head be not detached from the rest, re- move it lightly, lay paper over, and replace it in the oven as quickly as you ctm, to finish the baking. Cheese (Cuke tf)*—Take about the fourth part of a close fat Brie cheese, pound and rub it through a sieve ; mix with it a pint and a half of flour; lay it on the board, make a hole in the middle, into which put three quarters of a pound of butter, and work it in well; add to it a little Gruyere cheese grated, and six eggs. Knead these all together well; mould it up, and let it stand for half an hour ; then roll it up, and make it into a cako of about three inches ; mark it with a knife on one side in chequers, and on the other in rays; dorez, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cheshii!e Cheese (to imitate).—The milk ' being set, and the curd being come, do not I break it with a dish, as is customary in other cheese, but draw it together with i your hands to one side of the vessel, breaking it gently and regularly; for if it I be pressed rouglily, a great deal of the richness of the milk will go into the whey. Put the curd into the clieese-vat or mote as you gather it, and when it is full, salt it at different times; press it, and turn it often. The thickness of these cheeses must bo about seven or eight inches, and the}- will be fit to cut in about twelve months. You must turn and shift them frequently upon a shelf, and rub them with a dry coarse cloth. At the year’s end, you may bore a hole in the middle, and pour in a quarter of a pint of sack, then stop the hole close with some of the same cheese, and set it in a wine cellar for six months to mellow; at the expiration of which you will find the sack all lost, and the hole in a manner closed up. If this cheese be properly ma- naged, its flavour will he pleasant and grateful, and it will eat exceedingly fine and rich. Cheese (Crab).*—Cut some thin slices of any rich cheese, as Cheshire, double Gloucester, &c., and press them well with a knife, until you can spread it like butter. Then mix up with it mustard, common and Chili vinegar, Cayenne pepper, salt, essence of anchovies, and any other fish sauce you think proper. Mix all together thoroughly to a thick pulp. Cheese Cream.-—To three pints of raw cream put a sufficient quantity of salt to season it; stir it well ; fold a cheese-cloth three or four times, and lay it at the bot- tom of a sieve, and pour your cream into it. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter plate. Cheese Cream.—Make a pint of good milk lukewarm, and stir it in a bit of ren- net about the size of a pea, previously diluted with some of the milk; put it over a few hot embers, and cover it with fire at the top ; when the curd is set, put it into a little osier basket, made for the pur- pose, and well drained, turn it into a des- sert-dish ; serve with good cream, and line sugar over it. Ciieese (Milk).—Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the nnlk, into a pan, with two spoonsful of rennet. When the curd is produced, strike it down a few times with the skimming-dish, to break it. Leave it to stand two hours, then141, CUE CHE spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put tlie curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break tire curd a little with your hand, and put it in a vat, with a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand for twelve hours ; take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn it from one hoard to another every day, till it is dry; cover with nettles or clean dock leaves, and put it to ripen between two pewter plates. If the weather is warm, it will be ready in three weeks. Cheese Cream.—Put twelve quarts of new milk and a quart of cream together, ; with rennet just sufficient to turn it, and let the milk and cream he just warm. When it has stood till the curd has come, lay a cloth in the vat, which must be made of a size proportionate to the cheese. Cut out the curd with a skimming-dish, and put it into the vat till it is full, turning the cheese-cloth over it; and as the curd settles, lay more on, till you have laid on .as much as will make one cheese. When the whey is drained off, turn the cheese Into a dry cloth, and then lay upon it a pound weight. At night, turn it out into another cloth, and the next morning salt it a little. Then, having made a bed of nettles or ash leaves to lay it on, cover it with the same, shifting it twice a day, for about ten days, when it may be brought to table. Cheese Cream, a plain Family Way.— Warm three half pints of cream with one half pint of milk, or according to the same proportion, and put a little rennet to it; keep it covered in a warm place till it is curdled ; have a proper mould with boles, either of china or any other; put the curds into it to drain, about an hour, or less ; serve with a good plain cream, and pounded sugar over it. With Whipped Cream.—Put a good pinch of gum-dragon powder into a quart of cream; whip it till it is quite thick, with fine rasped lemon peel; pour it into a cloth strainer, or a piece of muslin ; drain it thus in a basket, and serve it the same : as the first. Cheese Cream iced.—Boil a pint of good cream, then put half a pound of sugar to it, about a dozen of sweet almonds pounded, a little preserved orange flowers, or orange-flower water, and rasped lemon peel; boil together a few minutes; when you take it off the fire, add five yolks of eggs beat up, and stir it continually till they are well mixed with the cream; strain it in a sieve, and put it into the icing-pot, when it is pretty much iced, work it well to put it into cheese-moulds ; ice it again, and serve as usual. It is also done with coffee and chocolate, in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened with four or five yolks of eggs, as directed in the first, and moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. Cheese Cream iced a la Bourgeoise*—• Boil a pint of very good thick cream with half a pint of milk, the yolk of an egg, three quarters of a pound of sugar; when it has boiled up five or six times, take it off the fire, and flavour it with any aro- matic, either orange flower, bergamot, or lemon; pour the preparation into tin moulds to ice ; put these moulds into little pails, having first put at the bottom of your pails some ice, well pounded, with some salt or saltpetre, and place ice and saltpetre all round your moulds, till it reaches the top of the mould. When the cheese is iced, and you are ready to serve it, dip your moulds in warm water to loosen the cheese from the moulds; then turn jrour cheeses into a dish. They should be eaten the moment they are served. Cheese Cream, and Marmalade.—Boil a pint of cream ; mix with it a few spoons- ful of any kind of marmalade you please, and a little dried preserved lemon peel, chopped fine ; when it is but just milk- warm, put some rennet to it, and serve it with pounded sugar over it. Cheese Cream a la Princesse*—Boil a pint of cream with a pint of milk, two grains of salt, a little grated lemon peel, a little coriander, a little cinnamon, three ounces of sugar; let the whole boil until reduced to half, then take it off the fire ; and when it is lukewarm, throw into it a piece of rennet (a little larger than a pea), mixed with a spoonful of water- pass the cream through a sieve, and then put it over some warm ashes; when the curd is produced, put it into a little osier basket to drain, and when it has taken the form of a cheese, turn it into a dish. Cheese Cream whipped.*—Chop very fine apieceof green lemon peel, and put it into an earthen pan with a pint and a half of good thick cream, and a piece of gum dragon, about the size of a pea, powdered • whip your cream, and as the whip rises’ take it off with the skimmer, and put it in an osier basket; if the basket is not very close, you must put a piece of muslin in it; when the cream is all whipped, and it is sufficiently drained, serve it on a dish with powdered sugar over it.CHE CHE 142 Cheese Curd Florentine.—Brenk to pieces two pounds of cheese curd, take a pound of blanched almonds finely pounded, ■with a little rose water, half a pound of currants, clean washed and picked, some stewed spinach, cut small; sweeten it with some sugar; mix it all well together; lay a puff paste in the dish, put in the in- gredients, cover it with a thin crust rolled and laid across; bake it in a moderate oven; it takes half an hour: the top crust may be cut any shape. Cheese Curd Pudding.—Take the curd from a gallon of milk, turned with rennet; drain off the milk completely, and beat it in a mortar, with half a pound of fresh butter; strain to this the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, add two Naples biscuits, or half a small roll grated, and sweeten the whole; putitinto buttered tins, and bake in a moderate oven ; when done, turn them into a dish, and gar- nish with citron, candied orange peel, and blanched almonds, cut in slips; sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them with melted butter and a little sack. Cheese Entrees.— Parmesan cheese should be made use of for entrees, and it should be grated, and the meat or fish with which it is served should be dressed d la braise, or en ragout; very little salt must be used in the sauce or meat, as Parmesan is in itself very salt. Put into the bottom of the dish in which you are going to serve your meat, some of the sauce you intend to use with your meat, then strew with grated cheese ; place your meat upon this, pour over the remainder of your sauce, and cover the whole with Parmesan. Then put it in an oven, or under a baking-pan to brown, and serve it with thick sauce. Cauliflowers and Spanish cardoons may be served in the same manner for entremets. Cheese (Fondu of).—Make a sort of pap with half a pint of cream, or good milk and potatoe flour; add a little salt. When the pap is boiled enough, put to it four yolks of eggs, half a pound of grated Gruycre or Parmesan cheese; and lastly, four whites of eggs, whipped till en neige. Stir the whole well together. Next pour the pap into a mould, place it over a stove covered with a lid, and fire on the top. It will be done enough in ten minutes, when it should be quickly served and eaten ; or make a paper case, put in your mixture, and bake it. Cheese (Fresh).—Take two quarts of raw cream, sweeten it with sugar; boil it, then put in some damask rose water, keep it stirring, that it may not burn ; when it I' is thickened and turned, take it off the 1 fire : wash the strainer and cheese-vat ■' with rose water; then roll your curd backwards and forwards in the strainer to I drain the whey from it, then put the curd, with a spoon, into the vat; as soon as it is cold, slip it into the cheese-dish with; some of the whey, and serve it up. Cheese Fritters .*—Put some milk, but- ter, mild Brie or Gruycre cheese into a saucepan ; add to these ingredients flour, and afterwards eggs and sugar; make it into a paste, of which form your fritters; fry them of a nice colour, and serve them sprinkled with sugar. A small quantity of orange flowers may be added. Cheese (Parmesan) Fundus.*—Put a pound of butter, and half a pound of pota- toe flour; stir them together well; add to them five or six glasses of good milk nearly boiling, a pound of Parmesan cheese grat- ed, half a pound of Gruyere cheese grat- ed, a small spoonful of mixed mustard, and a spoonful of powder sugar. Set it over a moderate fire, stirring it constantly; add the fifteen yolks, and a large plateful of whipped cream, well drained, then the whites whipped firm; pour this prepara- tion into small paper cases, as quickly as possible, and bake them for fifteen or twenty minutes. • Cheese as Iced Butter.—Boil for a few minutes a pint of cream, with some rasped lemon peel, and a good spoonful of orange- flower water; when taken off the fire, add a dozen yolks of eggs well beat up, and mix together without boiling; sift through a sieve, and put into an icing-pot to freeze, working it the same as ices ; it must be iced in such a manner that you may take it with a spoon to serve, like pats of but- ter stamped, and bits of clear ice between to appear like crystals. Cheese iced a la Chantilly.—It is pre- pared die same as cream cheese iced, and put to ice in moulds ; beat up a pint of cream to a froth, and rasped lemon peel, a pound of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; serve the froth upon the cheese, raised as high as possible ; you may, if you choose, ice the froth a little. Cheese (Parmesan) Ice Cream.— lake six eggs, half a pint of syrup, and a pint of cream, put diem into a stewpan, and boil them until they begin to thicken; then rasp three ounces of Parmesan cheese, mix the whole well together, and pass it through a sieve; then freeze it according to custom.CHE 143 CUE Cheese (Iced) of any sort of Marmalade. —They are made in the same manner as cream cheese iced; when the cream and eggs are well mixed, and a sufficient quan- tity of what marmalade you please, to give it a proper taste of the fruit desired. Cheese (Marigold).—Pick the freshest and best-coloured leaves you can, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice. Put this into milk at the same time with the rennet. The milk being set, and the ; purd produced, break it as gently and as | equally as you possibly can, put it into j the cheese-vat, and press it with a gentle weight, there being such a number of holes in the bottom part of the vat, as will let ; the whey easily out, or else let there be a : spout to carry oft' tbe whey, though holes will be the best. They must be finished i the same as all other cheeses. Cheese (Cream) a, la Montmorency *— Boil a pint of cream with two ounces of : sugar; when it boils, take it oft’ the fire, < and let it cool; when cool, put in half a I tea-spoonful of orange-flower water. Whip 'i the cream, and as the cream thickens take it oft with a skimmer, and put it on a j basket (with a fine cloth laid over it) ; K continue to whip until there is no longer i any cream remaining; let it drain, and ![ serve it on a plate. Cheese en Neige.—Put into an earthen pan three pints of very thick cream, about l; the size of a large pea of gum adraganth " (in powder), and _a little grated young- : lemon peel; whip the cream" well, and as the froth thickens, take it oft’with a skim- mer, and put it in a small osier cheese- ', basket. If the basket is not closely made, put in the bottom of it a bit of muslin, or fine linen. When the cream is all whip- ped and skimmed, let the cheese drain ; turn it over into a deep dish for table ; su- gar it, and serve. Cheese Paste.—Make a paste with a cream cheese and flour, a little butter, three orfour eggs'(both yolks and whites), and some good cream; you must judge of the quantity of flour, according to the quan- tity of cheese, and the consistence you would have the paste. CnEESE Plombiere*—Take a quarter of a pound of sweet, and four bitter almonds, beat them to a fine paste, which put into a 1 Pint of boiling cream, having previously infused in it two pinches of crisped orange flowers ; pour this cream on nine yolks of egg3, and three quarters of a pound of powder sugar; place it over a gentle fire. stirring it constantly until it begins to thicken, and taking great care not to let it boil; pass it through a bolting, and when cold put it in a sabotiere, aud ice it; when, about half set, add a small Chantilly cheese; then finish icing it, and when wanted for table, lay about a dozen orange or ivy leaves on a dish, lay the cheese on them like a rock, drop apricot marmalade over it, here and there, and serve it. Cheese (Potted).—Beat three poundsof the best Cheshire cheese in a mortar, with half a pound of best butter, a large glass of sack, near half an ounce of mace beaten and sifted; mix it well, pot it; pour over it clarified butter. Cheese (Potted).—Add to a pound of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese three ounces of cold fresh butter a little sifted mace, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. Mix all well in a marble mortar, put it into small pots, cover it with clarified butter, and set the pots in a cold dry place. Cheese (Pounded).—Take a pound of good mellow Cheddar, Cheshire, or North Wiltshire cheese, cut it into thin bits ; if the cheese is dry, add to it three ounces of fresh butter; if it is tolerably moist, two ounces of butter will be sufficient; pound and rub them well together in a mortar tiU it is quite smooth. Spread on bread, it makes an excellent luncheon or supper, kou may, if you please, pound with it curry powder, ground spice, black pepper, Cayenne, and a little made mustard ; and' moisten with a glass of sherry. If pressed down hard in a jar, and covered with cla- rififed butter, it will keep for several days in cool weather. J : ■ CnEESE to preserve sound.—Wash it in warm whey, wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you wish it to ripen, put it into a damp cellar, which will brin^ it forward. When a whole cheese is cuf, the larger quantity should be spread in- side with butter, and the outside should be wiped to preserve it. To keep that which is in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapped round the cheese when carried' from table. Cheese Puffs.—Beat in a mortar half a pint of cheese curd (strained from the whey) very fine, witli a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, leaving out two whites, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet. Lay a little of this paste in very small round cakes, on a tin plate.CHE ciie 144 If the oven is liot, a quarter of an hour will he sufficient to bake them: serve them with pudding sauce. Cheese roasted (to come up after Dinner'). —Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mor- tar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces; lay the paste, as above, thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven covered with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. Cheese {Sage).—Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less, according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. Cheese {Sage) with Figures.— Provide two cheese-vats of the same size, and set the milk to turn in two vessels ; one part with rennet alone, and the other part with rennet and sage juice. These must be made as you would make two distinct cheeses, and put into the presses at the same time. When both these cheeses have stood in the presses for half an hour, take them out, and cut some square pieces, or long slips out of the plain cheese, and lay them by on a plate ; then cut the same number of pieces out of the sage cheese, of the same figure and size, and immedi- ately put the pieces of the sage cheese into the places that you cut in the plain cheese, and the pieces that you took out of the plain cheese into the places you cut in the sage cheese. The pieces should be cutout by a tin plate, made into figures of several shapes, by which the pieces can be cut out so exactly, that they will fit without any trouble. When you have done this, put the cheeses in the press again, and finish ].ilce other cheeses. The greatest care must be taken that the curd xs veiy equally broken, and that both cheeses are pressed ns equally as possible before the figures are cutout, or else, when they come to be pressed for the last time, the"figures will press unequally, and lose their shapes. The cheeses should not be made above two inches thick ; if they are thicker it will be more difficult to make the j figures regular. After they are made, they | must be frequently shifted and turned on the shelf, and often rubbed with a coarse • cloth. They will be fit to cut in about | eight months. Cheese Souffle.—Take three ounces of |j flour and two of butter, puttlxpn in a stew- I pan with one egg, mix them together with | nearly a pint of milk, and set it on the fire |i till it begins to boil; if too thick, add a little more milk ; then break in the yolks of five eggs, and a gill of thick cream; when these are well mixed, stir in gently about two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a very little pepper and salt; beat the whites of the eggs, with the ad- dition of three, and finish as for soffits. When this light batter is put in paper cases, it is called fondus aufromage. Cheese Soup.*—Take a soup-dish that will bear the fire, and spread over the bottom, of it Gruyere cheese cut small, with pieces of fresh butter strewed about it ; cover this with thin slices of bread, and lay cheese, butter, and bread alternately, until you have enough, taking care to finish with the cheese and butter; moisten these layers with stock, and let them simmer until it is burnt to the bot- tom, and the liquor is evaporated. When about to send it to table, add more stock, with a little pepper, and let the pottage be rather thick than otherwise. Cheese Soup en maigre, and en gras. *— If you wish to make it en maigre, prepare some soup maigre, taking care that there is a larger proportion of cabbage in your soup than of any other vegetable ; when it is made and strained through a sieve, season it with a little salt; take the dish in which you mean to serve it, and place it before the fire, then take half, or three quarters of a pound (according to the quantity of soup you intend making) of Gruyere cheese, grate one half of it, and cut the ( other half into small slices, put a little of the grated cheese with some small pieces of butter into the bottom of your dish, cover it with some small slices of bread, then put a layer of the sliced cheese, then a layer of sliced bread covered with grated cheese, then bread and small pieces of butter, and so continue till your dish is filled ; moisten the whole with some of your soup, then let it soak over a chafing- dish until all the soup is absorbed ; then di- lute it with the rest of your soup, and sea- son with pepper. This cheese soup shouldCHE 145 CHE be served rather thick. To make cheese soup en gras, instead of making use of soup maigre, "it should he made with very rich cabbage soup, not skimmed, and no butter must be used. Cheese Soup, Gras on Maigre.—Take about half a pound of bread crumbs, sift them in a cullender with about a quarter of a pound of Gruyere cheese, or Parmesan ; simmer this together in a stewpan with i some good broth (either Gras or Maigre), until the bread and cheese are well stewed; i make a liaison in another pan, with the yolks of three or four eggs, and the same number of spoonsful of broth : when ready to serve, mix this last with the first, witli- : out boiling. This soup must not be very clear nor thick; it must be made with broth without salt, as the cheese may salt it suf- ficiently. Cheese (Stewed).—Cut small into a stew- ; pan, Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, a ; quarter of a pound of each; then add a I gill of Lisbon wine, a table spoonful of water, and (if approved) a teaspoonful of mustard. Mix them over a fire till the ' cheese is dissolved ; then have ready a cheese plate, with a lighted lamp beneath, put the mixture in, and serve it up di- ! rectly. Send it with some fresh toasted i bread in a a toast-rack. Cheese (Stilton).—Take the night’s creamy and put it into the morning’s new milk, with the rennet; when the curd is produced j it must not he broken as is done with other 1 cheeses, hut take it out with a soil dish al- i' together, and place it in the sieve to drain n gradually, and as it drains, keep gradually :: pressing it till it becomes firm and dry; N then place it in a wooden hoop, and after- i Wards keep it dry on hoards, turning it fre- ! quently, with cloth hinders round it, which are to be tightened as occasion requires. In some dairies the cheese, after bein°- I taken out of the hoop, is hound tight round I with a cloth; this cloth should he changed j daily, until the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself; after the cloth is taken off, it must be rubbed every day all over, for two or three months, with a brush, and j if the weather is damp or moist, twice a day ; and even before the cloth is taken off, the top and bottom must ho -well rubbed every day. Cheese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into a mass • spread it on fresh-made thin toast, and ftrate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. 1 Cheese Toasted, or an English Rabbit,— Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it in red wine, put it before the fire ; cut some cheese in very thin slices, and rub some butter over the bottom of a plate, lay the cheese upon it, and pour in two or three spoonsful of white wine, and a little mus- tard ; cover it with another plate, and set it on a chafing dish of coals two or three minutes, then stir it till it is well mixed • when it is mixed enough, lay it upon the bread, and brown it with a salamander. Cheese Toasted, or a Scotch Rabbit. Toast a slice of bread on both sides, of a fine light brown colour, butter it, toast a slice of cheese on both sides, and serve it on the bread. Cheese Toasted, or a Welsh Rabbit. Take a slice of bread and toast it on both sides; toast a slice of cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and with a hot sala- mander brown it, and rub some mustard over it. CHEESECAKES.*—Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk ; when turned drain the curd through a coarse sieve* gently break the curd, and rub in a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one, half an ounce of almonds, half bitter and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, with two spoonsful of rose water, four ounces of currants ; put in the curd* and mix altogether. Cheesecakes.*—One quart of milk, and three dessert spoonsful of rice flour, six eggs, leave out three of the whites,' and sugar, currants to your taste. Cheesecakes.—Put some curd from the dairy into the mortar, with a bit of fresh butter, a little salt, the yolks of three e°*gs and the white of one; rasp the peel of a lemon over some sugar, and put this also into the mortar; add four macaroons, and a bit of sugar; pound the whole too-etber and when very fine, take it out of the mortar; butter any quantity of tartlet moulds, according to your company, spread some puff paste over the dresser, cut with a round cutter as many pieces as you have moulds, and put a spoonful of the prepara- tion to each ; bake next in a prettv hot oven and serve up very hot with pow- dered sugar. Sometimes you may o-laz0 them with the salamander. Cheesecakes.*—Take one gallon of milk and turn it, butdonot let the curd bo too Hard; put it. in a sieve to drain, mix in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of L146 CHE CHE a&crtir, six eggs, leave out three of the whites, and one nutmeg; niuko a puff paste and put in the mixture. You may- add currants if you please. - Cheesecakes.—Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight, and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy; put a light thin puff paste in the pattypans, and tlnee parts fill them. : Cheesecakes.—Add three quarts of new milk to a gill of rennet, let it stand in a warm place, and when thoroughly set, drain it well, and mix into it with the hand half a pound of fresh butter, sweeten according to your taste with pounded sugar, add a few currants washed and picked, a little citron, candied orange and lemon peels cut into small slices, and one ounce of sweet almonds pounded fine. Beat up with the mixture three eggs, line the pans with puff paste, fill them Math the preparation, and bake them in a brisk Cheesecakes.—A pint of cream, half a pound of butter, six eggs, two spoonsful of grated bread, as much cmnamon and mace pounded as will lay upon a shilling, three spoonsful of sugar, five of currants, nearly two of brandy ; beat the eggs well, then mix all together in a deep pen ter dish, set it on a stove, stir it one way, till it becomes a soft curd; when cold, put it into tins with puff paste, and bake them. Cheesecakes.—Boil two quarts of cream, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and put them to the cream before you set it on the fire, let it boil till it comes to a curd; blanch some almonds, and pound them with orange-flower water, and put them into the cream, adding some Naples biscuits and green citron, shred small; sweeten with sugar that has musk plums ground in it, and bake them in a moderate oven. Cheesecakes (Gbmmon).—Beateight eggs well, while a quart of milk is on the fire, and when it boils, put in the eggs, and stir them till they come to a curd; then pour it out, mid when it is cold, put in a little salt, two spoonsful of rose -water, and three quarters of a pound of currants well Washed : put it into puff paste, and bake it If you use tin patties to bake m, butter them, or you will not be able to take them out; but if you bake them in glass or china, only an upper crust will he neces. sary, as you will not want to take them' out when you send them to table. Cheesecakes ( Court').—Boil a bit of butter in a little water and a little salt; thicken it with as much flour as it will take, stirring, it on the fire constantly, until it becomes quite a paste ; then mix the eggs with it, one by one, to make it almost as liquid as a thick batter ; and mix some good cream cheese with it; bake it in good puff paste; coloured with yolks of eggs. Serve it up either hot or cold. Cheesecakes (Curd).—Beathalfa pintof good curds with four eggs, three spoons- ful of rich cream, half a nutmeg grated, and a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or orange M-ater ; put to them a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of currants n-ell washed and dried before the fire. Mix all well together, put a good crust into patty- pans, and bake them gently. Cheesecakes, (Curd).—Beat half a pint of good curds with four eggs, four spoons- ful of cream, some nutmeg, a little brandy, half a pound of currants; sugar to the taste. Cheesecakes de St. Denis.—Mix a spoon- ful of flour with a fresh cream cheese well- drained, commonly called curds, a little salt, a proper quantity of eggs, and finish the same as for Court Cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, (Fine).—W arm a pint of cream, add to it five quarts of milk, warm from the cow, with some rennet; give it a stir about, and when the curd is come, put it into a linen cloth or hag; drain it well away from the whey, hut do not squeeze it too much, and put it into a mortar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Add to the curd half a pound of sweet almonds, blanched, and beaten extremely fine, and half a pound of macaroons or Naples bie* • edits, beaten very fine; then put the yolks of nine eggs beaten, a nutmeg grated, two perfumed plums, dissolved in rose or oran°e-flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar; mix all well together ; melt a pound and a quarter of butter, and stir it well in. Line tartlet-pans with put!'paste, fill them with the preparation and bake. Cheesecakes (French ).—Take some of the petits choux paste, made with water ; mix with it some frontage d la cream that has boen curdled‘cold, and then proceed in the usual way. _ , Cheesecakes (Mrs. Harrison s).—Forthe paste, use a quart of fine flour, or more, a pound of butter nibbed into the flour, witn n quarter of a pound of sugar beat tine, two spoonsful of orange-flower M-ater; make H into a paste, and lay it in pattypans torCHE CHE 147 curd; take the yolks of twelve eggs, beat in a jiint of very thick cream; when the cream boils up, put in the eggs ; then take it off, and put it in a cloth over a cullender ; whey- some new milk with rennet, for the other . curd; when you temper them together, take a pound of currants, three quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs, lour spoonsful of rose water, and bake them quick. Cheesecakes (Rich Paste for).—Dry a i pound of the finest flour, mis with it three i ounces of refined sugar, then wash half a l pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth; put the flour into it by degrees, i and work into it, well beaten and strained, j the yolks of three and the whites of two j eggs. If too limber, put some flour and 1 sugar, to make it fit to roll. Line your ) pattypans, and fill; a little more than I fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined . sugar, beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set i them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a ! very fine flaky crust; but if for mince pies, : or any sweet things, should be washed. CHERRIES au, Beurre a l’Allemande. •—Pull the stalks from two pounds of black- 1 heart cherries; fry a large quantity of ! bread cut into dice, in a quarter of a pound of butter; when the bread is well coloured take it out with a skimmer, and keep it hot; 1 put the cherries into the remaining but- ter, with a glass of red wine and some fi sugar, and stew the cherries well through. | Take them out also with a skimmer, and I place them in a dish, put the fried bread into the cherry juice, turn them over in it, : and put it over the cherries. Serve very hot. J Cherries (Bottled).*— Gather your fruit before it becomes too ripe, and put it into bottles, fill them up as close as you can and seal the corks. Place the bottles in I the bain-marie, and as soon as the water i; begins to boil, lessen the fire, and a quarter of an hour after take the water out of the I bain-marie, ■ Cherries in Brandy.*—Choose the finest and ripest chorries, leave on half the stalks, and put them into very cold water. In ''bout half an hour take them out, and 1 drain them on a sieve ; weigh them, and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter of a pound of sugar ; when you have clarified ; boiled it to grand perle, put in the ! Wat, boil them up two or three times, stirring them gently with a skimmer-; then take them from tiie fire carefully, and put the cherries into bottles or glass jars; when filled, add to each twelve cloves and half an ounce of cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put to the sugar, when nearly cold, brandy (in the proportion of a pint and a half to a pound of fruit j ; mix them together well, mid pour them on the cherries. In two months time taste thent, and if sufficiently flavoured, take out the cloves and cinnamon. Cover the jars and bottles close. Cherries in Brandy.—Bruise a few cherries, mulberries, and raspberries, so that you may obtain from them half a pint of clear juice, which mix with a pint of brandy, and rather more than a pound of sugar-, and dissolve it; put some fine cherries into bottles, cut the tails about halfway, and pour on them the juice, brandy, &c. which must cover the fruit. The cherries preserved in this way may be glazed with caramel, sugar, or white glaze, if you wish to serve them in a dessert. Cherry Brandy (Black).—Pick and bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and the same quantity of small black cherries - let them stand for two months in a cask with six gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred together. At the end of that time it may be drawn off and bottled. Another way.'*—Choose fine sound mo- rella cherries, and having taken ofi' the stalks place them in layers in glass jars; strew powder sugar between each layer' and cover them with brandy. As soon as the cherries have imbibed the brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them constantly covered. J Cherry Cakes.—Cut a pound of tart paste in half, and roll it out thin; chop preserved cherries into small pieces, and diop them on the paste; egg them round carefully, and turn the paste over them, and press them together gently. Then with a gigging-iron, cut it into half circles; prick and wash them over with egg. Bake them on a well-buttered tin, in a quick oven. Another way.—Stone your cherries and boil them slightly in syrup and white wine, drain them, and reduce the syrup to a good consistence, and add your cherries : sheet some tartlet-pans with puff paste, cut some pieces of bread half an inch thick, and largo enough to suit the middle of the paste, well flour, and place them in, bake them,CIIE 143 CIIE -take out the bread, sift over them pounded cinnamon and tine sugar, glaze with a sala- mander, and then fill them with the cherries in syrup. . Cherries (to candy).—The fruit must he gathered before it is ripe ; prick and stone them ; boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. Cherries cn Chemises.*—Choose some large ripe cherries, cut the stalks halt oft, beat up the white of an egg to a snow, and dip each cherry in it, and then roll it in fine sifted sugar ; then lay them, without touching each other, on a sheet of paper, and place them in a stove on a sieve till wanted. . . Currants in bunches, strawberries, and crapes may be done in the same manner. Cherries (Coated).—Take half a dozen cherries that have been preserved in liquid, one of them must have the stalk on ; dram them, cut them in half, and when the stone is taken out, place them round the one with the tail (which must not be cut) so as to form one large cherry; cover it with fine powder sugar, and dry it in a stove or o ven. Cherries (Compote of).*—Cut off the Stalks of cherries about halfway, and throw them into cold water, and when the water is well drained from them, put them into clarified sugar boiled to grand perlt, let them boil up over a quick fire five or six times ; then take the preserving-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and skim. \\ hen cool, put them into compotiers. Another wayCut off the ends of the stalks, and put cherries into a saucepan, with half a glass of water, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; set them upon the fire, and let them boil up two or three times ; place them on a dessert-plate with the stalks upward ; pour the syrup over, and serve them cold, \ ou may add rasp- berries or lemon peel, it agreeable. Cherries (Conserve of). Stone a pound of cherries, take the seeds from two ounces of red currants, and place them in a silver vessel over a moderate fire until the fruit is reduced to a quarter. Boil a pound and a half of sugar to the degree called grandcaissd, throw the fruit into it, and stir them well together till it begins to puff up; you may then put the conserve in&TXdi«L-Place layers of black cherries and powder sugar alternately m a stone jar that is broader at bottom than at top, until quite full, then pour on them spirits of wine, in the proportion of halt aPp7nttotwo gallons; stop it as close as possible, and bury it for six months, when 11 it may be strained and bottled. Keep it t tightly corked. CiiEnnv Custard.*—Stone and tail two > pounds of ripe cherries, and put them into i a preserving-pan with half a pound of: powder sugar, and when nearly done,, drain the cherries well, strain the syrup,. and boil it until it begins to stick to the ■ fingers ; then pour to it a fourth part of the cherries with the juice which drained from them, and put them on the fire till the r' nappe forms. The custard being prepared as usual (see Apple Custard), pour in the drained cherries; put it in a brisk oven for three quarters of an hour; then dorez and glaze it, and when ready for table, mask it with the remaining cherries, and pour the syrup over the whole. Cherries (Dried). — Arrange some sound ripe cherries, with their stalks on, upon little hurdles, made for the purpose. Take care not to place one upon another, and put them in a cool oven, where they must remain till the oven is cold; turn the cherries, and put them again into a cool oven (just after the bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. When cold, tie them i up in little bunches, and keep them in a i dry place. _ Second way.—Put a pound of powdered , sugar, a very little water, and five pounos ■ of morella cherries (with the stones taken out) into a saucepan, and make them scald- ing hot, when the cherries must be taken, out and dried in a cloth ; then return them to the pan, and heat them as before; dry again, and repeat the process twice more ;. take them out for the last time, and dry them in a cool oven, laid singly. When dry dip them into cold water, and dry them in a cloth. They must he kept free from .to damp. CiiEnniEs, the French TEau.—Hang mo- rella cherries by the stalks, singly, in the sun to dry, in a place free from dust; when quite dry, cut them from the stalks, and: M I place them, one by one, in glasses, cover - n them with powder sugar, and fill them up with white wine. Set them in a stove to swell, and then they are fit for use. Cherry Fritters.*—Cut some large | sheets of wafers into pieces large enough \ to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain iB the latter on a sieve, and then wrap them, one bv one, in the wafer, one piece at the top and the other at the bottom ; having. 1 slightly wetted the wafers, press the edges -jj together, lay them on a sieve, without touching each other, and leave them toI CHE 149 CHE drv. Make a light batter, in which put a little brandy, Madeira, and melted butter; dip the cherries in this, drain, and fry them to a nice colour in a moderately hot pan ; then drain them again ; sprinkle line jsugar over, and serve them. Cherry Fritters a la Daupliine.*— Pick three quarters of a pound of line cherries, and boil them live or six times with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; take out the cherries, drain them, and boil the sugar to la nappe ; then put in the cherries again, and leave them to cool. In the mean while roll out a pound of brioche paste; make your fritters as directed (see Fritters a la Daupliine), and put live or ■six cherries in each. Fry them of a nice colour; glaze, and serve them quickly. Cherry Gdteau a la Parisienne.*—Take the stones and stalks from a pound and a half of sweet cherries, and having mixed them with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of powder sugar, finish the Gdteau as directed (see Gateau Parisienne of Apples). lo make this Guteau of currants, the same quantity of fruit is necessary; the seeds of the latter must be removed. Cherry Ice.*—Take the stones and ■stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, bruise, and set them on the fire with a little water, and half a pound of sugar. IV hen they have boiled, pass them through a hair sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful of the kernels, put them in a basin with the juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a pound of sugar au petit «sse, and strain on them the lemon juice and kernels ; mix the whole together, and put it in a sabotiere, with pounded ice. W ork the cherries up with it well, until it has 8et, then place it in glasses. Cherry Ice Cream.—Take half a pound •0‘preserved cherries, pound them, stones and all; put them into a basin, witli one g|U of'syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a inn of cream, pass it through a sieve, and ireeze it according to custom. Cherry Jnm—Having stoned and boiled •in u P0lJnt^s bne cherries, bruiso them, to0 juice run from them ; then boil P,e ,der'Ilult !l pound of red currant juice, elm 'a !l pouncl of loat sugar, put the •ernes into these whilst they are boiling, non frr.?n tllem three quarters of a verve ° f [t?d sugar. Boil all together inti fi’St f°‘ lnlf an llour, and then put it papers’0'3' When C°ld I,ut on brandy Cherry Jelly *—Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of fine clear ripe cherries; mix them with a quarter of a pound of red currants, from which the seeds have been extracted; express the juice from these fruits, filter and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. Finish the same ns Barberry jelly. Cherry Jelly.—Having taken the stalks and stones from two pounds of dark red fleshy cherries, put them in a basin - pound the kernels, and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a tammy. Mash the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting in first half a pot of currant jelly, then the kernels, and lastly, the lemon juice; mix these together well; then having boiled and skimmed a pint of thick clarified sugar and isinglass, put the cherries into a jelly bag, pour the sugar, &c. over them; run it through till quite clear. If not sufficiently sweet, add more sugar, if the contrary, add more lemon juice. Wet the mould, set it in ice, and fill it with the jelly; do not turn it out till the last minute. Cherries in Jelly.—Slit half a pound of green gooseberries in the side, that pare of their juice may run out; put them into pots with a little water in each ; cover the pots very close, and put them in a sauce- pan of water over the fire till the goose- berries are quite clear; stone a pound of cherries, and beat a pound of double-re- fined sugar, strew some of it in a basin, and put on it a layer of cherries, cover them with sugar ; add five or six spoons- ful of the gooseberry liquor, put them on the fire, and let them boil gently, till the sugar is melted, then they may boil fast; skim it well. As soon as it jellies in the spoon it is done enough. Cherries (to Iceep).—Cut the stalks carefully from sound and perfectly dry cherries, and put them into clean and dry bottles; when full, cork them tight, and resin or seal them. Bury them in the ground with the corks downwards. Cherry Marmalade— Choose tho ripest, largest, best red-coloured cherries, you can meet with, and take double the weight of cherries to tho sugar ; stone and tail; and then put them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring them till reduced to halt. Clarify and boil your sugar to petit casse, then add the fruit to it, and stir it until you can see tho bottom of the pan ; the marmalade is then sufficiently done, and may be put into pots. Cherry Marmalade.*—Boil two pounds of sugar, with two glasses of water, skim150 CHE' CHE it well, until, on shaking the skimmer, after clipping it in the sugar, the latter, drops from it like icicles ; then you may put in four pounds of cherries, picked and stoned ; hoil them, ancl when the manna- lade flows readily, take it from the fire, and put it into pots. Cherry Marchpane* — Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half of sugar, and a pound of cherries ; pound the almonds to a paste, and mix it with the sugar, boiled to petit boa Id; then haying stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out the juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring con- stantly until the paste is properly done ; then finish it in the usual way, (see Marchpane.) Strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any other fruit may be used in the same way. CriEnniES (Massepain of).—Take the gtones from half a pound of ripe cherries, bruise the fruit, and then add to it a pound of spgar, and the same of poundecl sweet almonds; put them on the fire, and work them till quite dry. When this is quite .cold, pound it with the whites of three or four eggs and a little raw sugar. Put it on paper of whatever form you please, and bake in a moderate oven. Cherry Paste.-—Take two pounds of morella cherries, stone them, press out the -juice through a sieve (they must be boiled first), and put it into a skillet over the fire •to dry it a little, mix a pound of sugar boiled to grande plume with this, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon; when the paste is of a good consistence, put it into moulds, and dry it in a gentle .oven. Cherries preserved dry in Bunches.*— Ice up some fine equal-sized cherries in bunches, seven or eight in each, fasten them by the ends of the stalks, throw them into sugar boiled to soujjld. Let the cher- jies boil up in it fourteen or fifteen times, then skim ancl pour it into an earthen pan, .get it in a stove till the next day, when drain and lay out the cherries to dry. To •each pound ot fruit allow an equal eight of sugar. _ Cherries ‘preserved liquid* Stone and take the stalks from six pounds of cher- ries, ancl put them into an equal quantity of clarified sugar boiled to grande plume ; boil them up several times in a covered saucepan; skim, take them from the fire, ancl let them drain ; the next day boil the 'Sugar to grand per Id, ancl add to it a little currant juice, put in your fruit, and boil it again eight or ten times, covered as before: take it off, skim, and put it into pots. When the fruit is cold, cover it with currants jrambaisdes. Cherries preserved with the Leaves and Stalks green.—Dip the stalks and leaves in boiling hot vinegar, and then place them j| upright in a sieve to dry. Having boiled some double-refined sugar to a syrup, put i in cherries with the stalks and leaves pre- i pared as above, and scald them; take them. I out, and lay them again on a sieve, until the sugar be boiled to candy height; then 11 arrange them properly, and dry them like s | any other sweetmeats. _ | Cherry Pudding.—Make a paste with butter, or suet chopped small, rubbed into > flour, and moistened with water ; line a . basin (well buttered) with this, put in picked cherries and sugar, cover the top i with a crust, tie it in a cloth, and boil 1 it. Other fruit may be added. Some* boil fruit puddings in a cloth without a basin. Another way*—Make a plain bat ter r pudding, and stir in picked cherries and sugar, taking care not to break them..! The batter must be made thicker and with . more eggs, than for plain boiling, fie it in a cloth, and boil as any other pud- • ding. i Cherry Pudding, A>lglo-Fran$a!$.’, — - Pick two pounds of fine ripe cherries, and - mix them with a quarter of a pound of* picked red currants (having extracted the- seeds), and six ounces of powder sugar.- Make your pudding as directed in the re- cipe for apple pudding, with Muscadel' raisins. You may make use of raspberries instead of currants ; or mix red or white currants and raspberries. Cherry Ratafia *—Crush ten pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar with a quart of brandy ; cover the jar close, and infuse the cherries for five or six days; at the end of that time put the fruit into a cloth, and press the juice out through. Boil five pounds of tine currants with three pounds of sugar, and press out Use juice as you did that of the cherries ; nnx ‘the two juices, measure them, and for everv pint allow a pint of brandy. Adc a pound of the kernels of the cherry stones,- half a pound of coriander, a little mace, some cloves and cinnamon, all well ]*mna- ed, put them into a jar, and pour the li- quor over them ; cover it close, w,u 1 infuse for six weeks, alter which, pass whole through a jelly-bag, and bottle-it* cork it carefully.CHE 151 CIIE Second way*—Take the stones and stalks from the quantity of cherries you intend to use, and put a few raspberries with them; bruise and put them into ajar, and let them stand for four or five days, stirring the pulp two or three times each .day ; then press out all the juice, measure it, and to every three pints of it put a quart of brandy: and to these five pints, •add three handsful of the kernels pounded, and a pound and a quarter of sugar. In- .fuse in the same jar a handful of coriander, and a little cinnamon. Let it stand for seven or eigiit days, stirring it every day, •then filter and put it into bottles; cork them well. ICiiEnniEs (Syrup of).*—The best cher- ries for this purpose are the black sour •ones ; take out the stones and express the juice into an earthen pan, where it must •stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours •to clear: at the end of that time pour the juice gently into a pan, and add to it, for each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed :sugar, and two drachms of cinnamon, pre- viously infused in a glass of water, wrap the cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put •it with the water into your pan; boil all to- gether for half an hour, skimming it care- fully. When sufficiently done, take out -the cinnamon ; strain the syrup till quite dear, and when cold bottle it. Cherries for Tarts.—Prick some Mo- relia cherries with a needle, each three or four times, and let them stand in a dish with powder sugar sifted over them. The next day boil some sugar to a syrup, and whilst hot, put the fruit into it, and when they have remained in it twenty-four hours, take them out and boil the syrup a°'ain until very thick, then put in a little bran- dy, and add the cherries. When cold, put them into glasses. Keep them in a ■cool place. ■ Cherry Tarte—Make a good crust, and lay it round the sides of a dish, strew in sugar, put in your fruit picked, and sugar at the top; red currants may be added if agreeable, cover with crust and bake. Another.—Make a compote of cherries, either with or without stoning, and half \vi 'lu''mt'ty sugar used for preserving. *v hen done, lay it in a puff paste ; cover it with the same or not, according to your fancy, and bake just time enough to co- lour your paste. 'This must be eaten cold. Cherry Tartlets*—Take the stones and stalks from a pound and a half of sweet Cherries, and give them a few boils in a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, but no water. Prepare your tartlets in the usual way, (see Tartlets), and [having drained the fruit, put them in, and mask the tartlets with the syrup reduced. Cherries en Timbale.—Take the stones very carefully from two pounds of good, red, fleshy cherries, add to them the ker=- nels, and put them with some clarified sugar into a sugar-pan, and boil them gently till pretty thick; then put them into a basin, and mix them with the juice of two lemons, and a little clarified isin- glass ; set this on ice, and just before you serve it, put it iuto a timbale paste previ- ously prepared. Cherry Water.—Take one pound of Kentish cherries, pound them in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them ; take the cherries and kernels, put them into a basin, and add four gills of syrup ; squeeze four lemons in, and add a suffi- cient quantity of water; make it to your taste ; pass it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. Cherry Water.—Put to two quarts of claret four pounds of ripe black cherries bruised ; add to them angelica, balm, and carduces, of each a handful, half the same quantity of mint, double, of rose* inary flowers, and treble of clove gilly- flowers, two ounces of cinnamon, and one ounce of nutmeg, both cut small ; put these ingredients into a deep vessel, stir them well, and cover the vessel quite close; and when it has stood twenty- four hours, distil it; then draw off as much as runs clear. Sweeten with sugarcandy. Cherry Water*—Take the stalks and stones from two pounds of very ripe cher-a ries, crush them in an earthen pan, with half a pint of water ; then put them into a fine sieve, and let them drain. With the liquids mix up eight ounces of sugar ; beat it up well with a spoon, and put it into bottles, which must be placed in iced water. Cherry Wine*—To make five pints of this wine, take fifteen pounds of cherries, and two of currants, bruise them together .; mix with them two thirds of the kernels, and put the whole (the cherries, currants, and kernels) into a barrel, with a quarter of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel must be quite full ; cover the barrel with vine leaves, and sand above them, and let it stand till it has done Working, which will be in about three weeks; then stop it with a bung, and in two months time it may be bottled, -tCUE 152 CHE Another way,—Stone and take the stalks from red cherries when they begin to ripen ; put them into a glazed pan, and squeeze them to a pulp, either with your hands or a wooden ladle. Let them stand twelve hours to ferment: then put them into a linen cloth, and press out the juice, which must remain until the scum rises, then skim it clean ; pour it off gently into a cask, and put to each gallon a pound of loaf sugar. When it has fermented seven or eight days, and is become clear, draw it off into smaller casks, or you may bottle it. Keep it cool, and in ten or twelve days it will be ripe. CHERVIL*—Is principally used in soups and stuffing, and is generally pre- served with other herbs as follows : take of sorrel, chervil, beet, purslain, and cu- cumbers, if in season, quantities according to your liking; wash them well; mince and press them in your hand, to squeeze out all the water. Put them into a kettle with water, some butter and salt, and boil them until the water is entirely consumed. Then take them out, and when cold, put them into pots ; cover them with warm butter. When you want to use these herbs, put them into some stock that has very little salt in it. If they are required for a farce or gar- nish, boil them a minute or two in some butter; thicken with the yolk of eggs and milk; when so prepared, they may be served under hard eggs or broiled fish. For sauce it must be chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and mixed with melted butter. Chervil Cream*—Boil a handful of chervil in a glass of water for half an hour ; then strain and reduce it to two spoonsful; add half a pint of cream, the same otmilk, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, the rind of a lemon, a little coriander and orange flower water; boil these half an Lour longer : beat up the yolks of six eggs with a small quantity of flour; pour the cream on them ; mix them well; strain, and put it into the bain-marie. Glaze it with sugar and the salamander. Chervil Sauce.—Put a few mushrooms, parsley, chibbol, shalots, two cloves, a bay leaf and a few tarragon leaves in some melted butter; let them soak for some time, then add a little broth, white wine, pepper and salt; roduce it to a proper thickness, but do not skim it; when done, put in some chervil, scalded and chopped ; beat it all up together. Chervil (Syrup of).*—Put into a warm glass, or glazed earthen vessel, a quart of hot water, and five ounces of chervil; place it on hot ashes (the vessel must be very closely stopped). In twelve horns • draw oft’ the infusion, and add to it two i pounds of powder sugar; boil the whole to ■perlttake it from the fire, and let it cool before you bottle it. Chervil Water.—Steep chervil in boil- ing water until the latter is properly fla- voured ; then set it by in a cold place for some hours before you want to use it. . Sweeten it to the taste. CHESTNUTS*—Should be placed on the fire in a pan with holes to roast; first slitting or cutting a notch in the skins, to prevent their flyiug off'. When done, serve them in dessert on a napkin, as hot as possible. Some boil the chestnuts in- stead of roasting them, as the skins are then cleaner, but the nuts not quite so mealy ; the better way is to boil them in plenty of water, and when nearly done, take them out and roast them. Chestnut Biscuits.*—fake six ounces of roasted and skinned chestnuts, a little grated lemon peel, a pound and a half of powder sugar, and ten whites of eggs. Pound the chestnuts to a paste, and then beat it up in an earthen pan with the other ingredients ; when your paste is of a pro- per thickness, take it up with a knife, and lay it on paper, and form into biscuits whatever size you please. Bake them in a moderate oven, and when of a nice colour take them out. Do not remove them from the paper till they are cold. Chestnut Bread.*—Roast a hundred fine chestnuts, being careful not to bum them; peel them well, and pound them with butter and double cream ; pass them through a sieve; add two eggs, and then strain them again. Weigh your paste, and for every pound, allow half a pound of powder sugar, a little vanilla in powder, and two ounces of flour; mix these toger ther, aud form of the preparation as many chestnuts as it will make; lay them on a sheet of wafer paper, butter and Were: them several times, and then bake them in a hot oven. Chestnuts an Caramel.— Roast chest- nuts as for the table; take oft" the skius; diji each in the whites of eggs beaten, and then roll them in powder sugar; lay them separately on paper to dry, in a moderate oven; they may be cut into different forms if you think proper, and glazed either white or brown, Another tray.*—Cut some osier rods orCHE 153 CIIE reeds into pieces about two or three inches long, and on the point of each put a roasted and skinned chestnut. Take a piece of very fresh butter (about the size of a nut), and rub it with the palm of the hand, on an iron plate or marble slab, taking care to rub every part well. Then having boiled some clarified sugar to caramel height, take a piece of the osier, with a chestnut on the end, in each hand, and dip them in the Sugar, twisting them round repeatedly, that the sugar may adhere equally about the chestnut till it begins to cool; then lay them on the buttered slab, and dip in two more, proceeding as above: when all are ! done and cold, take out the osier twigs, i and wrap each chestnut in paper, with a device if you think proper. These chest- nuts make a delicious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten the day on which they are I made. Chestnuts ( Compote of) .*—T ake the outer skin from about a hundred chestnuts, and ; then put them into a saucepan with water, i a lemon cut in pieces, and three liandsful ( of bran; put them on the fire and blanch them : as soon as a pin will go into them i .easily, they are sufficiently done ; rub off the second skin, and throw them into cold j water, with the juice of a lemon. Clarify | and boil a pound and a half of sugar to I petit lissc, and having drained your chest- nuts, put them into the sugar with the juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of orange-flower water; put these on the fire for a short time, but not to let them boil: then tdlce them off and set them by. The next day drain the chestnuts, and boil up the syrup four times; then add more su- gar, and having boiled it to sonjfle, put in ■the chestnuts; blanch them instantly af- terwards, and put them into compotiers. Chestnuts (Compote of).—Roast your ■chestnuts as for the dessert, and when they are peeled and skinned, put them into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a glass of water; let them simmer for a quarter of an hour; squeeze in a little lemon juice, and when ready to serve, strew powder sugar over them, i Chestnuts ( Compote of) d I'ltalicunc.*— Roast and take the peel from fifty chest- nuts, flatten each a little between your . ‘“umb and finger, and place them on silver Plate, put over them very lightly a quarter : 0‘il pound of powder sugar, and set the 1 plate on a stove to boil; when you have I taken them from the fire, strew more sugar i over, and glaze them with the salamander. ' ArranS° diem in a compotier, and make a syrup with a little clarified sugar, the juice of a Seville orange, and half that of a lemon. Chestnut Cream *—Pound twenty-five roasted chestnuts in a mortar, with a little milk; then put the paste so made into a stewpan, with the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and four ounces of powder sugar; when it has boiled a little while, strain it, put it into a dish, or glass for table, and let it cool. Chestnut Cream. — Roast, and then pound a quarter of a hundred of chestnuts, with a small quantity of milk; to this add the yolks of two eggs, a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and about an ounce of butter. Boil these to- gether for some minutes, then strain it, and set it by to cool. Chestnuts (Croquettes of).*—Roast fifty fine chestnuts, pick them, and take away all those parts which may have become coloured; set aside a dozen, and divide each in half. Pound the remainder with two ounces of butter, and mb the paste through a sieve, into a stewpan, with a glass of cream, two ounces of butter, the same of sugar, and a grain of salt; put it on a moderate fire, stirring it one way, in two minutes add to it the yolks of six eggs, and replace it on the fire for one minute, when the cream will have some consistence; pour it on a buttered baking- plate, and spread it out, and cover it with paper. When cold, enclose each half chestnut in about double its size of the cream, roll it in the hollow of your hand to make it perfectly round, and then roll in crumb of bread grated extremely fine. All the croquettes being thus formed, beat up five eggs, add a pinch of salt, dip the croquettes in this, drain, and then roll them again in bread crumbs ; make them quite smooth in the hollow of your hand, and fry them in lard, or whatever else you think proper. Move the croquettes with the point of a skewer, and when done take them out with a skimmer ; drain them well, sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them in a pyra- midal form. . Chestnut Custard.*■—Take three pounds of well-roasted chestnuts, removing such parts as were coloured by the fire, and pound them with a pound of fresh butter ; when a smooth paste, add three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few spoonsful of whipped cream, the whites whipped firm, and finish the custard as directed.ciie 154 CHE Chestnuts a VEspagnole.*—Take about fifty good chestnuts, and blanch them in hot water, in the same way as almonds; ■when they are thoroughly cleared of both skins, put them into a saucepan, with two ounces of butter, four large spoonsful of espagnole, two glasses of consomme, a bay leaf, and a little nutmeg; boil the chest* nuts in this for half an hour, then take them out, and having strained, keep them hot in the bain-marie, whilst the sauce is reduced ; then pour the latter into a dish, lay the chestnuts on it, and serve. Chestnuts glacees.*—Having taken the outer skin from some fine chestnuts, blanch them in some boiling' water with two .spoonsful of flour, until they are sufficiently tender to allow a pin to pass through them easily ; then take them, one by one, from -the saucepan, clear away the inner skin and throw them into cold water: when all are done, drain them and simmer them a minute or two in some clarified sugar; then add a little lemon juice and put them into a stove till the next day. Drain them .again and boil the sugar about ten or twelve times, and set it by; when luke- warm, put in the chestnuts, and place the whole in the stove again. When ready to finish, drain the chestuuts a third time, sprinkle them with sugar, and dry them on slates. Chestnuts a Vltalienne.*—Peel some broiled chestnuts, lay them on a napkin, two at a time, and press them together, so that of the two, you make one ; put them , successively into clarified sugar, boil them gently for a short time, and place them in a baking-pan; sprinkle them with sugar, and brown them, either with a salamander, or in the oven. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over them. Chestnuts (to keep').*—Pierce the skins of the chestnuts as if for roasting, and then put them into bottles, and boil them up in a bain-marie. When you wish to use them, throw them, one by one, into cold water; then sprinkle salt over, and broil them. Chestnut Paste.—Make a marmalade by boiling chestnuts in water, and rubbing ; them through a sieve, then pound them, and to three quarters of a pound of this, add a quarter of a pound ol any other fruit marmalade ; mix them well up with an equal weight of sugar boiled to grand ' plume; put it into your moulds and bake it ns cherry, or anv other paste. Chestnut Paste (Compoteof).*—Vreparo ,.a hundred chestnuts in the sumo way S3 for Compote of Chestnuts, and put them into a skillet with a pound and a half of clarified sugar ; reduce them over the fire to a paste with a little orange-flower water; dry it like almond paste, pass it through a sieve into a compotier; make a syrup like the Compote a ilialienne, which pour on them and serve. Chestnut Pudding.—Put a dozen and a half of chestnuts into a skillet or saucepan of water, boil them a quarter of an hour, then blanch and peel them, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little orange* flower or rose water and white wine, until they are a fine thin paste; then beat up j twelve eggs, with half the whites, and mix them well; grate half a nutmeg, a little salt, mix them with three pints of cream and half a pound of melted butter; sweeten to your palate, and mix all together, put it over the fire, and keep stirring it until it is thick. Lay a puff paste all over the dish, pour in the mixture, and bake it. W hen you cannot procure cream, take three pints of milk, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir into the milk, set it over the fire, stirring it all the time until it is scalding hot, then mix it in the room of the cream. Chestnut and Plum Pudding, Anglo- Francois* — Having roasted thirty-six chestnuts, choose from among them ten, which are perfectly white, and cut them in halves; take from the remainder a quarter of a pound, and beat them with an I equal weight of fresh butter to a paste; rub them through a horsehair sieve, and add to them three ounces of rice flour, six yolks, and two whole eggs, fourteen ounces of veal suet shred, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, ditto of stoned raisins, the twenty half chest* nuts, each cut into four pieces, half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, grated nutmeg, and half a glass of rum or arrack. Make your pudding like marrow pudding Anglo- Fra nfa is. Chestnut Puree.—Slit the peel of some fine new chestnuts, and fry them in a little butter till the peel comes off; then let them boil in some consomme and sugar.; add half a dozen spoonsful of espagnole when nearly done, and then rub the whole through a tammy. This sauce being apt to get too thick, must be kept rather liquid. Chestnut (Glazed) Pie. — Glaze the quantity of chestnuts you may require, with orange flowers, and place them ta layers in a crust made of almoud paste, cut lemon peel into fillets, and stick theift into the interstices ; cover the whole wit* Every clear apple jelly. .CHE 153 CHE Chestnuts (Ragout of).—When the chestnuts are properly prepared, put them into a saucepan with half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of cullis, a little stock, and salt; boil it until reduced to a thick sauce. Be careful not to break the chest- nuts, but they must be thoroughly done. Chestnut Rolls.*—Roast and peel about jhree dozen chestnuts, and carefully re- moving- those parts which have been co- loured by the fire, weigh six ounces of them and pound them with two ounces of butter ; when reduced to a very fine paste, pass it through a sieve and make it into rolls, as directed (see Almond Rolls). Chestnuts (Souffle of ) .*—Peel your chestnuts, and then boil them in water with any aromatic ingredient you think proper ; lay them in a cloth to drain ; dry them thoroughly, pound and rub them through a quenelles sieve ; put them into Jhe mortar again with half their quantity of butter and a little powder sugar, and when they are well beaten together, add the yolks of six eggs, and beat them up likewise. If the paste is too liquid put it into a saucepan over the fire to dry a little. About half an hour before it should be sent to table, whip the six whites of eggs to a froth, as for biscuits, and mix them lightly with your souffle, which put into a silver stewpan, and place it in a cool oven. Chestnut Soup.*■—Half roast about se- venty or eighty chestnuts in hot ashes, and then take off the outer and second skins. Boil them in some good beef or rich fowl stock; when well done, pound those which have broken in the boiling, £uid press them through a sieve, moisten- ing them with stock as a puree. Keep the unbroken chestnuts to place round the soup-dish as a garnish. . Another way.*—Put into a stewpan a piece of butter, three onions sliced, two carrots, a parsnip, a head of celery, three leeks (all cut small), half a clove of garlic, and two cloves; when they have taken colour, put in a little water, and let it boil for an hour, then strain and season it with Balt, fake the outer and second skin from a hundred or more of chestnuts, and stew ■them in a part of the above liquor ; when sufficiently done, rub the broken ones through a sieve as above, and keep the whole ones to garnish ; moisten the former •with the liquor they were stewed in; then boil up the whole together, and serve. To •flake this soup cu gras, meat must be added to the roots in the first instance. . Chestnut Soup, a I’Anglaise.—Lay some slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of :r stewpan, and place on them a pound of veal, a pigeon cut in pieces, an onion, sweet herbs, pepper, mace, and a carrot ; let these stand over the fire until it begins to stick to the bottom, then add a crust of bread and two quarts of beef broth ; boil it gently, and when reduced to nearly half, strain it, and having roasted half a hundred chestnuts, stew them in beef stock (just sufficient to cover them ) until quite tender; add them to the soup made above ; season with salt, and serve with fried bread. Chestnuts (Stewed).—Cutanotchin the skins of about fifty chestnuts, mid put them in a stewpan with a little butter; shake them over the fire, and when the skin is quite come off, let them simmer in some consoinmd; turn them about occasion- ally, until nearly dry ; then add a little espngnole; simmer them gently in that for a short time. If it should be too thick/ you may add more consomme. Salt it to your taste, and put in a few mushrooms stewed : great care should he taken not to break the chestnuts. Serve with roasted turkey, stewed beef, &c. CHICKENS.—Havingpicked the chick- ens, singe ; them well to remove all the hairs, &c., which may remain on the skin; then bruise the bone close to the foot, and draw the strings from the thigh. Take out the crop by a slit cut in the back of the neck; then cut off the neck, leaving skin enough to turn over the hack. Cut off the vent, and take out the inside, being careful not to break the gall; break the back-bone and the two bones leading to the pinions ; wipe the chicken with a cloth, and put in a little pepper and salt. If the chicken is to be trussed for roasting, pro- ceed as follows : Turn the legs close down to the apron and run a skewer through ; run another skewer in the joint of one wing through the body to the other wing; and having washed the liver and gizzard, place them in the pinions. For boiling, the under part of the thigh must be cut, and the legs placed under the apron, only let- ting the ends be seen. Be sure to preserve the breast very full. To truss them, en poule, for the French dishes, make a hole above the joint of the leg, and put the claws into the body. A string fastened across the back, from the head to the point of the skewers, will effectually preserve the chicken in its pro- per form. i Chickens, a I’Anglaise*—Truss and roast them till three parts done, and before156 CHI CHI they are coloured, disli them up. l’our on them melted butter mixed with parsley, garlic, tarragon cut small, and a little flour. Serve very hot. Chickens (Artificial).—Make a force- meat with the white meat of chickens, or some veal or lamb, a piece of fat bacon, a sbalot (all minced very small), parsley, also chopped, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; season with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and mace. Work this up into the shape of a chicken, and stick into it the feet of the bird ; bind it well together with egg, cover it with bread crumbs, place them on buttered tins, and bake diem. Serve either with or without gravy. Chickens d la Bellevue.-—Bone two nice chickens, and fill them with a ragout made as follows: Boil some small onions in stock, till about three parts done; then stew with a little melted lard, two slices of peeled lemon, truffles, mushrooms, livers cut small, and season with pepper and salt, for about half on hour; do not use them till cold. Wrap the chickens in thin slices of bacon rubbed with pepper and salt, and add slialots and parsley; over these double paper buttered. Broil them slowly; when done, wipe off die fat and serve with sauce d la Bellevue. Chickens au Blanc-mange.—Boil a pint of cream with a bay leaf and a little cori- ander for a short time ; then add to it a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds beaten; when well strained, beat up the yolks of four eggs in a little cream, and put them to the former; place it on the iire again, and keep Stirring; mix in by degrees the breast of a roasted fowl minced with beef marrow, and seasoned -with nut- meg, salt, and pepper. With this blanc- mange fill two chickens boned, and sew them up; scald, and then braise them with bacon, milk, herbs, &c. When they are done, prick them that the fat may drain out, wipe, and serve them with sauce a la Heine. Chicken (Blanquette of) d la Tvrijue.— Cut a cold roasted chicken into scallops ; placo somo rice, boiled in consomme and becliamelle, into a dish fit boisson, lav the scallops, en miroton, to the top of it; keep it hot, and when ready to serve, cover it with sauce a blanquette, or d becliamelle. Chickens (to boil).—But the chickens into a saucepan by themselves, and boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one twenty minutes. Chickens (to boil).—Having neatly trussed your chickens, put them into cold water; then take the outside rind off a lemon, slice itthin, place it on thechickens, and over that thin bards of fat bacon, and envelop each chicken with white paper tied over; then boil them about twenty- five minutes, take them up, and place them clean from what they were wrapped in on the dish, and if done properly they look beautifully white. Serve them as you please, with or without sauce. If you have a po'cle or white broth on, chickens or fowls are much better done in it. Another way.-—When they are drawn and trussed, lay the chickens in skim milk for about two hours ; then put them into cold water, cover them close, and set them over a slow fire, and skim them well. As soon as they have boiled slowly, take them from the fire, and let them remain in the water close covered for half an hour; then drain and serve with white sauce. Chickens a la Briucliere.—Take out all the bones, except those of the legs, which must be trussed over the breast, something in the form of a chairman’s strap; give them a few turns over the fire, in a little oil or butter, with some sliced lemon. Then put them and the butter and lemon into a pan with a few slices of ham and veal; cover them with bacon, parsley, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt. W hen these have stewed together a quarter of an hour, put in a glass of wine, and finish; skim and strain the sauce, thicken it with cullis, and serve it on the chickens. Chicken (Broiled).—Split it down the back, pepper, salt, and broil it. Serve it with white mushroom sauce, or melted butter with pickled mushrooms. Another way-—Split a couple of chick- ens, season them, dip them in clarified butter, and broil the inside next the fire (which should be of charcoal), and only turn them to colour them, hen done, pour on them a sauce made as follows : Boil some stewed mushrooms with beef stock and plain sauce, an equal quantity of each, until of a proper consistence ; flavour it with lemon juice, Cayenne pepper, and salt. Chicken Broth.—Take the remaining parts of a chicken, all butthe rump; skin, and put them into the water it was first boiled in, with the addition of a little mace, onion, and a few peppercorns, and simmer it. IVhen of a good flavour, put to it a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds beaten with a spoonful of water; boil it a little while, and when cold, take off the tat.CHI CHI 157 - Chicken Broth, pectoral*—Prepare a chicken in the usual way, and put it into a saucepan with two pints and a half of water, two ounces of pearl barley, the same of rice, and two ounces of the best honey; boil all together, skimming well for three hours, until it he reduced to two- thirds. Chickens en Caissons.*—Cut the white parts of two chickens into fillets, and ma- rinade them in oil, with salt, pepper, sweet herbs chopped &c. Make some little cases of white paper, and put a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of each, lay in tlie fillets, strew in some truffles sliced, and moisten them with consomme, or stock; put the cases in a baking-pan, and bake them. When done, put them on a dish with the other parts of the chickens (which must be trussed with the head under the skin of the breast) and pour over the whole some veal gravy and some lemon juice. Chicken- en Capilotade.*—Put into a stewpan a little butter and flour; add mushrooms, parsley, and shalots cut small; dilute these with equal quantities of stock, and red or white wine. When the sauce is well boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, and put it into this sauce; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkins cut in thin slices. Chickens and Cauliflowers*—Chop up the livers of two middling-sized chickens, and mix with them parsley, scallions, a hit of butter, salt, and pepper; put this into the bodies of the chickens, which must be trussed like turkey poults; parboil them with a little butter or lard, then wrap in bacon or buttered paper, and roast them. When done, serve them with sauce made of cullis, butter, salt, and pepper, boiled up. Garnish with plain boiled cau- liflowers. Chickens a la Cendre *—Stuff a couple of chickens with a rich farce, lard, and prepare them as for roasting. Line a stew- pan with slices of veal and bacon, onions, carrots, &c.; place the chickens in it, and let them stew in their own gravv for two hours over hot ashes : keep the stewpan closely covered. When done, serve them in their own liquor ; hut if that should be too thick, put in a little stock or veal gravy ; boilitup two or three times. Well skim it. Chickens and Cheese.*—When the chickens are drawn and trussed, cut them along the back and flatten them ; toss them ”P m a stewpan with abit of butter, half a glass of white wine, and the same of red, parsley, scallion, two cloves, half a clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, thyme, basil, very little salt and pepper. Stew them gently ior about an hour, thentake out the chickens and put in a bit of butter the size of a wal- nut, worked into some flour, thicken this over the fire. Pour part of this sauce on the dish, and upon the sauce a handful of Gruyere clieesegrated ; then the chickens - pour the remainder of the sauce on 111010’ and about as much Gruyere cheese grated on the top, as there is underneath.0 Put the dish in a baking-pan, with fire above and below; when of a good colour, and the sauce is consumed, serve it quite hot If the cheese be very salt, the chickens’ must be dressed previously without salt. CnicKENS en Chervil.—Make a ragout of two carrots, a parsnip, two or three°sliced onions, garlic, two cloves, a bay leaf thyme, basil, and a little butter ; when a little coloured add a glass of white wine" an equal quantity of stock, and reduce it to half. Strain, and put in butter (about the size of an egg) worked up with some flour some chopped chervil; thicken it and serve it with roast chickens. Chickens a laChevaliere.*—Choose two fat chickens, raise the white part, lard it and heat it; then cut it up, and having warmed some butter in a stewpan, put the pieces into it, and leave them on the fire a minute or two, and toss them (still over the fire) until they are hard ; sprinkle them with flour well mixed with butter, add some hot stock, four spoonsful of well- skimmed vela ate, parsley, scallions, and pepper; let it hoil. When nearly done, put in some equal-sized onions peeled, and skim it. On serving take out the parsley, place the pieces of chicken on a dish, and strain the sauce overthem, having thickened it with the yolks of three eggs. Another way.—Proceed in the same way as above, only the wings must bo laid aside, the skin taken oft', and the meat cut from tie bones, larded as before mentioned. Lard two of the wings with truffles, and Having melted some butter in a baking-pan, put in all four wings, sprinkle them with salt and cover them with buttered paper. 1 no fricassee being ready, garnish it with the wings, and four fine crayfish, and place a large truffle in the middle and serve. Chickens Chiringate.—Having taken off le feet, beat the breastbones of your chickens flat without breaking theskin, flour and iry them in butter; when of a nice brown take all the fat from the pan, leavingCHI 158 CHI in the chickens, over which lay a pound of gravy beef cut in thin slices, another piece of beef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs : pour a quart of boiling water over the whole, cover it quite close, and let it stew; in a quarter of an hour take out the chickens, but let the gravy continue boiling, and when very rich strain it; then put it again into the pan with a little red wine and a few mushrooms; then put in the chickens, and when they are hot, dish them up, and pour the sauce over them ; garnish with slices of lemon and broiled ham. Chickens d la Condi.—Take the breast- bones from a couple of fat chickens, bind them to a proper shape, and slit them equally with a penknife, and insert be- tween each slit slices of truffles and tongue a Vicariate ; place them in an oval stewpan, place bacon all round, but none on the top ; put fire on the top of the pan, until the ba- con has taken colour : thenremove the fire, and let the,cliickens boil gently for half an hour ; take them out, drain and glaze them; perve with a ragout a, VAllemande. Chickens d la Creme A—Parboil a couple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, and throw into warm water for half an hour; then do them over the fire in a little fresh butter, with salt, parsley, pepper, morels, &c.; sprinkle with flour, and dilute with a glass of boiling water; cover the stewpan close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the water has soaked into the chicken, then add half a pint of cream and a little butter, lhe yolks of three eggs may be put in also, but in that case, a small quantity of verjuice should be put in before the cream. Second way.*—Stuff and roast your chickens, and when you take them from the spit, rub them with butter, cover them with bread crumbs, wrap them in slices of bacon, and bake them a short time; serve with well-thickened cream Chickens (Croquettes n/).*—Reduce two spoonsful of veloute or sauce tournee, and add to it the yolks of four eggs ; put to this the white meat of a chicken minced very small, and well mixed with the sauce; take it out, and roll it into balls about the size of a walnut; roll them in bread crumbs, giving them an elongated form; then dip them m some well-beaten egg, bread them again, and fry them of a light brown. • Chicken (Croquettes of) a la lloyale. —Mix well into some very thick biha- melle and some glaze, the breast of a chicken, some tongue, truffles, and mush- rooms, all minced very small; when quite cold roll them into little balls, and having beaten up three eggs, throw the balls into them. Take them out quickly and roll them in bread crumbs ; dip them a second time into the eggs, and cover them again with bread crumbs ; fry them as other cro- quettes. Lay fried parsley on a napkin in a dish, place the croquettes on, and round it, and serve. Chickens aux Croutons *—Stuff a couple of chickens with the livers, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Fry pieces of bread in some oil, then put them to drain, and in the same oil fry two onions cut in small pieces; when three parts done, add parsley, scallion, shalot, and a fowl’s liver, all minced, a glass of white wine, a spoonful ot cullis; take off the lilt, and season it with salt and bruised pepper; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Dish the chickens, and place the croutons by the side of them, with the sauce. Chicken Currie.—Cut up a chicken that has been properly prepared, fry it in but- ter of a light brown, then slice about six onions, fry them, add a moderate spoon- ful of currie-powder, a clove of garlic, a squeeze of lemon, some salt, a little roux, or flour and butter, and half a pint or more of good gravy ; let it boil, and skim it well for an hour; then rub it all through a fine sieve, put it to the chicken, simmer it till very tender, and just before serving add a little good cream ; it should be ra- ther thick. ' Serve with plain boiled rice in another dish. Chickens u VEcarlale.*—Prepare your chickens as usual, and introduce between the skin and flesh some crayfish butter j season them lightly, wrap them in bacon, and roast them or boil them; on serving, pour more crayfish butter on them. If you wish to have the chickens red, and the sauce white, put cream sauce under them. Chickens aux Ecrevisses.—Having boned two or three middle-sized chickens, roll them up, making them rather pointed at the neck, and braise them with the same number of crayfish for an hour. 1 hen wipe off the fat, and put them on a dish in the following manner : Put the pointed or neck part into the tail of a crayfish, place the bodv on the chicken, and t e claws at the side. Prepare the sauce as usual, and pour it over the whole.159 CHI CHI • Chickens (Fillets of) with Endive.— Having' picked and washed a dozen heads of endive, blanch them; when they have drained on a sieve for a few minutes, rub them through it with a wooden spoon; then let them drain again for an hour or two, and stir them well into a stewpan, with a little butter ; when it begins to fry, add some consomme, reduce it, put some cream sauce in and boil it till thick ; then mix in the yolks of two eggs; place this in the middle of the dish, and having prepared your fillets, arrange them on the endive and serve with bechamelte sauce. Chicken (Cutlets of) d l’Epigramme.— Take the fillets of five chickens, pare them well, scrape the small bone of the pinion, and stick it into the point of the fillets, and season them with salt and pepper. Wash them with the yolks of two eggs and dip them in bread crumbs, then in melted butter, then in bread crumbs a second time, so that they may be entirely covered. Do not broil till just as they are wanted. Put some filets mignons in scallops, in a gauce u, blnnquette with mushrooms, and serve; or dress the filets entire, and place them and the cutlets on a dish alternately, with alletnande quite thin. Chickens a l'Excellence.—Make a ragout as follows : Slice a quarter of a pound of pickled pork, and let it stand over the fire in some water, till nearly done; then add to it some fat livers, truffles, shalots, and parsley chopped, whole pepper, and a glass of white wine: thicken with the yolks of two eggs : when cold, put some of this under the skins of two fat chickens, and the remainder into the body; give them a turn or two in the frying pan, in some but- ter and lemon juice, then wrap in bacon and pepper, and roast them. In the mean time put some slices of bacon, ham, veal, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced, parsley, thyine, bay leaf, and a spoonful of oil into a stewpan close covered for half an hour • men add a glass of white wine, the same :UUl Praise them for an hour and a half; skim and strain it, and put, some shalots, butter, and flour to it, and serve °n the chickens. Chickens’ Feet and Forcemeat.—Scald the skin from as many foot as you may ro- cjuire, tie them in a bundle and braise hem till tender, and then dry them in a c oth. Make a good forcemeat and fill the aws with it, dip them in egg and then in ermnucrumbs i efW them and dip in bread mbs a second time, press it well on, and fry them in lard. Lay them on fried parsley, and serve. Chickens a la Folette.—Cut carrots and parsnips into any form you please, and boil them with a few small onions in a little stock. In the mean time cut mushrooms, truffles, and ham into very small pieces, and stew them in some butter, with sweet herbs, two cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf; when these are coloured, add some veal gravy and a glass of white wine, and boil the whole slowly until sufficiently done; then skim and put it, with a little cullis’ and a few olives stoned, to the carrots - pour this ragout on two chickens, stuffed with their livers, &c. rolled in bacon and paper, and roasted. Chickens Fricasseed.*■—Prepare and cut up two chickens; put them in a stewpan with some butter, parsley, scallions, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, mushrooms, and a slice of ham; let them stew till scarcely any sauce remains, then add a little flour, warm water, salt, and pepper; stew it again and reduce the sauce. When nearly done, put in the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream or milk; thicken it over the fire, but do not let it boil; a small quantity of lemon juice may be added. Place the breasts and bones of the chickens on a dish, lay the legs and wings over them, and then pour the°sauce over the whole; garnish with the mush- 100ms. lake off the skins before you cut up the chickens if you wish the fricassee very white. ~ jjuiw uto .—jrroceeci as above, but when the chickens are dished up strew bread crumbs over them, and on that put several pieces of butter about the size of a pea, and then brown it with the salamander, or in the oven. Chickens (Fricassee of) d l’Alletnande* —J. arboil and cut up the chickens, and then, having put them into warm water for alt an hour, stew them in some butter with parsley, morels, scallions, garlic’ pepper salt, a glass of stock, and half a glass of Champagne; when nearly done add to this the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a few drops of water and some lemon juice; stir it well the same way until finished. J Chickens fricasseed White.—Skin cut up your chickens and lay them in ’warm water; then stow them till tender in water, with lemon peel, white wine, an anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, sv\ eet herbs. Take out the chickens when done, reduce the liquor, and put it to ACIII CHI 160 quarter of a pint of cream, four ounces of butter, and a little flour ; stir it over the fire till the butter is melted ; then put the chickens in again, add some grated lemon peel, pounded mace, lemon juice, salt, and mushroom powder. Shake all over the fire, and servo very hot. Chickens (Cold.) fried,—Cut the chickens into quarters, and rub each quarter with the yolk of egg. Mix some bread crumbs with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and shred parsley, cover the chickens with this, and fry them. Thicken some gravy with flour, and add to it Cayenne pepper, mushroom powder or ketchup, and a little lemon juice. Serve the chickens with this sauce. Chickens en Fviteau*—Cut the chickens in pieces and put them into a marinade of sweet oil, lemon juice, vinegar, salt, pep- per, chopped parsley, and sliced onions. In about two hours drain them, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them. Place them on a dish, with the slices of onion on the top, and fried eggs above them. Make a sauce of oil, lemon, parsley, and tarragon chopped, salt, pepper, and garlic. Chicken Fritters.—Make a batter with four eggs, some new milk, and rice flour; to this add a pint of cream, powder sugar, candied lemon peel cut small, fresh lemon peel grated, and the white parts of a roasted chicken shred small; set all these toge- ther on a stove, and stir well for some time ; when done, take it off, roll out the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fry them; strew sugar on a dish, lay on the fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them hot. Chickens (Galantine of).—Bone a nice plump chicken very carefully, cut some ham and truffles into slips of an equal thickness, and as near of a length as pos- sible ; cut the chicken also into fillets, and add a few slices of veal; form a sort of bed of these in the skin of the chicken, so that when cut the slices may be chequered ; season with all sorts of spices; close the skin, form it of a proper shape; sew up the back, and stew it, covered with slices of bacon, and parsley, onions, thyme, a bay leaf, a clove, a little spice, carrots, two onions, and some slices of veal; then mix a little broth, and a small quantity of calf’s- foot stock. When the jelly has boiled an hour take it off, and let it cool in the liquor. If this dish is served hot, pour over it any brown sauce; it is, however, better served cold ; take some of the liquor, beat the whites of two or three eggs, and mix them with the cold jelly, after having skim- med off the fat; then put the whole over the fire again, and stir till the liquor is white ; then let it boil gently; next take j the jelly from the fire, and lay it aside, i with a cover and fire over it; when quite ; ■ clear, strain it through a cloth, and let cool, to be used when -wanted. If served cold, more pepper and salt must be used ; gar- is nish with this chopped fine. Chickens a la Gtnoise.*—Bone two . plump chickens, and fill them with a stuff- ing made of fat livers, sixancliovies, truf- fles and small onions, all chopped very small. Soak them in oil with lemon juice; finish them in veal gravy, and add some morels and artichoke bottoms. Chickens ait Gatin.—Cut cold roasted chickens into pieces, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour in a few spoonsful of cullis, half a glass of white wine, butter, chopped parsley, shalots, mushrooms, and season with salt and pepper. When done, place on a dish, with half the sauce and bread crumbs under them; set the dish over the fire till it catches at the bottom, then serve with the rest of the sauce. Chickens (Grenade of).—Line a mould, ribbed like a melon, with thin slices of bacon; cut some fillets of chickens ; lard half of them with bacon, and the others with truffles ; lay them alternately in the ribs of the mould, and place between each a previously cooked lamb’s sweetbread; cover the whole with a farce fine ; put a salpicon in the centre; cover that also with the farce; stick it with forcemeat, and put the mould either in the oven or the bain- marie. When done, turn it out; dry the larded slices with the salamander, and glaze them; when of a light brown, un- cover the rest, glaze them slightly, and serve with espagnole. Chicken Haslets.*—Cut a cold roast chicken into pieces, and put them upon skewers like a haslet; dip each into egg, beaten up with salt, pepper, parsley, and onions, chopped; strew bread crumbs over; dip them in butter again, bread them a second time, and broil; baste them occasionally with a little oil. Serve them with or without sauce. CmcKENSa la Garnis.—Prepare chickens as for roasting, and having given them a turn or two over the fire in a little butter, with the addition of lemon juice to pre- serve their whiteness, take them out and wipe them very clean ; peel a large onion carefully, and cut it in thin slices, so as to preserve the rings, of which take two or three, dip them in white of egg, plac« —JCHI 16f them on the breasts, in such forms as you may think proper; lay in these rings pre- parations of any colour (see Colours), you please, basting the chickens with white of egg to make the colour adhere properly; then cover them with thin slices of bacon, and braise them for an hour; take off the bacon carefully; add cullis to the sauce, skim, and strain it over the chickens. Chickens a l'Or lee*—Singe, and cut up two fat chickens the same as for a fricassee; put the pieces into ajar; sea- son them with salt, pepper, parsley, scal- lions, two bay leaves, and the juice of two lemons ; wash and peel a dozen large on- ions, as near of the same size as they can be; cut them into slices of equal thick- ness, making use only of the outer rings. About half an hour before they are wanted, drain your pieces of chicken, sprinkle them with flour, dip them into white of egg beat up, and then into bread crumbs ; give them a neat appearance, and fry in moderately hot lard; when they are of a proper colour, and sufficiently done, lay them on a clean cloth to drain ; then make your fat very hot, and having well floured the onion rings, fry them also of a good colour ; drain them on a cloth, dish the chickens en buisson, with the onion on the top, and a hot aspic underneath, or poiv- rade. Chicken a Vlndienne.*•—Fry some sliced onions in lard, with a little flour; when of a nice colour, take them out carefully, and keep them hot; in the same lard fry a chicken, blanched and cut up ; do it of a good colour, and then add some stock • season it with salt, allspice, Cayenne pep- per, and turmeric; when the chicken is done enough, putin the onions, and let all hoil together for two or three minutes, feerve some plain boiled rice on a separate dish, to eat with it. Chickens a I’lvoire.— Pull out the Breastbones of a couple of chickens, and fl11, them with butter, lemon juice salt and pepper, well mixed together • bind up the chickens in lemon, bacon, and paper the same as chickens to boil, and l’ut them into a stewpan, lined with ba- uon; pour some poele on them. When they have stewed for half an hour, drain Sir1 serve them with vdout6 °’r Chickens d la Jardiniere.*—Soak your h-!in -S (havin« trussed and cut each in ear l m \0t butter’ P!lrsl°y- scallions, pe ‘ , ’mUS Iir.00mS O'11, chopped), salt, and P PPer, make as much of these adhere to CHI ^ho chickens as you possibly can; cover them with bread crumbs, and broil them, basting frequently with the remainder of the butter. When of the proper colour, make a sauce with a little gravy, three spoonsful of verjuice, salt, pepper, chop- ped parsley, and the yolks of two eggs; thicken this, and pour it over the chickens when ready to serve. Chickens in Jelly.—Lard a couple of chickens with bacon rolled in spices and sweet herbs, and boil them with a knuckle of veal, half a pint of white wine, cloves, parsley, shalots, thyme, bay leaf, and cori- ander; when done, take out the chickens, and let them cool; then skim and strain the liquor, and boil it a short time with a lemon sliced, and a raw egg to clarify it; when that is done, strain it through a napkin. Place the chickens in a pan just bigenou°,h to hold them; wash them over with white'of egg, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and colour them if you think proper. Let the chickens lay with the breasts down- wards, and cover them with the jelly. When they are wanted, place the pan a minute in hot water, and turn the chickens over gently. Chickens en Lezard.*—Draw and sin°-e tn o fine chickens, take off the drumsticks and pinions, leaving the skin ; split them open through the back, bone them entirely and lay them on a cloth ; fill the inside with a farce, made with ready dressed fowl, truffles, champignons, tongue d l ecarlate, and calf’s udder, cut into dice - form the chickens with the farce into the shape of lizards, as follows : The skin of the rump make the tail, the thighs make the hind and the wings the fore legs, the breast forms the back, and the head is composed of a truffle cut like that of a li- zard. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon fay in the lizards, carefully preserving their shape, and stew them, covered with a t uck paper and the lid of the stewpan. When done, drain, and set them to cool. Place them on your dish ; glaze and deco- rate them with small omelets, either white gieen, red, or yellow; serve them on a green magnonnaise, and garnish the dish with jelly. Chicken Loaf*—Bone a chicken very carefully, and fill it with a rago.U of sweet- breads ; make it as near as possible the original form ; tie it up in bacon, and wrap a cloth round it. Boil it in some white wine, stock, with sweet herbs, oerve it with espagnole• Chickens a la Marengo—Cut up a LCHI CHI 162 ronsted cliicken, and fry it in olive oil, with salt, mushrooms, and sweet herbs; when of a proper colour, take out the chicken ; place it in a dish, and pour over some well reduced sauce Italienne; garnish with eggs or crusts fried in oil. Chickens u, la Mariee.—Take the hones from two small chickens, and fill them with a farce made of fat livers, parsley, shalots, basil (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, and salt. Soak them for some time in oil, then wrap them in tliin slices of bacon, veal, and ham, over that, double-buttered paper. Stew them on a slow fire till done. Take off all wrappers, and serve with nonpareil sauce. Chickens a la Marmotte.—Boil some carrots and parsnips, cut into shapes, with some small onions, in a little broth ; in the mean time cut some mushrooms and pickled cucumbers into dice, and stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, parsley, cloves, stock, salt, and pepper ; when they have boiled slowly for a little time, add a spoonful of cullis, and the carrots, &c.; boil them up together, and serve over roasted chickens. Chickens Marines*—Cut your chickens, and soak them in stock, vinegar, or ver- juice, salt, and pepper ; place them on hot ashes for half an hour. Beat three whites of eggs to a strong froth, and then dip in ench piece of chicken; flour it, aud fry them of a nice colour. Chickens Maroquin.*—Choose two fine fat chickens, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil; let them cool, and dry them thoroughly. Make a stuff- ing with the livers, "truffles, streaked ba- con, butter, salt, pepper, herbs, &c., all chopped small, unite them with die yolks of two eggs ; fill the chickens with this, and put some under the thighs and wiugs ; place slices of bacon over it, so that the stuffing may remain in its proper place. Put two large slices of bacon over that, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them. You may serve them eidier with crayfish butter, or blond. Chickens Matelote*—31anch about a dozen small white onions, and then throw them into cold water to take off the skin. Cut two carrots and a parsnip into pieces, three inches long, pare them to an equal .size; prepare the following: A small piece of butter, two pinches of flour, a Mass of white wine, the same of stock, and brown them; put the carrots, parsnip, and onions into it, with the addition of of parsley, scallions, t>vo cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, half a clove of garlic, .pepper, and salt; boil diese gently lor half an hour. Take one large, or two. i small chickens, set them on the fire a mi- nute or two, and then cut each in four; put them into die above ragout and boil for an hour. When very little sauce remains, take off the fat, and add a chopped an- chovy, and a few capers. Second way *—Cut a couple of chickens into quarters, aud put them into a stewpan lined with bacon and small onions; after they have been in a short time, add to them an eel cut in pieces, a small fish, and a dozen crayfish, with salt, pepper, bay leaves, and morels; moisten the whole with equal quantides of stock and white wine ; cover the stewpan, and let it stand over a moderate fire for three hours. Place all the pieces on a dish, and gar- nish it with crayfish and fried crusts, put alternately, and pour the sauce over it. Chickens a la St. Menehoult*—Put two chickens into a stewpan with some butter, a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, par- sley, scallion, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, and basil; stew it gently, and i let the sauce adhere to the chickens; then soak them in eggs beaten, cover them with bread crumbs, dip them into butter, bread crumbs again, and broil them. Chicken Milk*—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with an ounce of powder sugar, a little orange-flower water, and salt; mix these well up until the egg begins to whiten, then add half a pint of boiling chicken broth, stirring it very quick, and drink it as hot as possible. Chickens in a Minute.*—Cut a chicken f in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter ; add to it some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, sprinkle flour over, and shake them ; moisten it with stock or t\ a- ter, and white wine; when it has boiled, take it from the fire and put in the yolks of one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or lemon juice, Chickens a la Napolitaine.*—Take 8 cold fricassee of chickens, which must be pretty thick, and mix it with some ma- caroni, boiled in a little stock, aud drain- ed ; put to it a little butter, a ladle- ful of sauce tournee, some grated Parmesan and Gruvere cheeses, and coarse pepper; stir it well, and then place a thick la>er in a mould that has been previously lined with paste, and garnished with vermicelli; put the pieces of chicken on it, cover t ie® with the sauce and macaroni, strew bread crumbs very thickly over the whole, wasuCIII a 63 CHI it with meltetl butter, bread it again, and bake it. Chickens uux Nouilles.—Are dressed in the same way ns a I’lvoire, and served with nouilles. Chickens uux petits (Eiifs composees.— Braise a couple of chickens cut into quar- ters, and when they are done, skim and strain the sauce, and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs. In the mean time soak bread' crumbs in cullis, and when quite thick, put them in a mortar with ska- lot, beef marrow, and the yolks of four or or five hard eggs, pepper, and salt; mis in the yolks of two raw eggs well, and make these ingredients into little balls, roll them in fiour, and give them a boil in some .stock. Serve them with the sauce as above, upon the chickens. . Chickens with Onions* — Put some slices of bacon, oil, salt, and plenty of small onions, in a stewpan; when the latter are half done, pour over them a pint of stock, a little white wine, fennel, parsley, &c. ; the whole being nearly done, put in a couple of pale-roasted chickens, stew them about a quarter of an •hour, and then serve them with the sauce reduced. Chickens and young Oysters.*—Fill your chickens with young oysters cut small, truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. Blanch about two dozen young Oysters, and toss them up in some melted butter, with chopped herbs and olive oil. When they have been on the fire a quarter of an hour, add a little white wine and half a glass of good stock, thicken it over the fire for another quarter of an hour, and when the chickens are ready to serve, pour the sauce on them, and garnish the dish With oysters and some lemon. Chicken Panada.—Boil a chicken in a quart of water until nearly done ; then skin it, cut off the white meat, and pound i TU l !\1!ttle of tbe liquor it was boiled u to a thick paste ; season it with salt nutmeg and lemon peel; boil it up all to- gether for a few minutes. Chickens au Parmesan.—Braise a couple ot chickens as usual, and when nearly hone, add to them some stock, white wine, t ,IS* butter, season according to ome' of sufficiently 'lone, strain some pf the sauce into your dish, and chinl- lnt° 11,1>nnesan ol'eese; place the -lens in this, and pour over the re- ainder of the sauce ; grate more Parrae- sa“ on, and bake it. Jiickens aux Pavies.—Fry two or three iat chickens, trussed quite round, in but- ter for a minute or two ; lay a few slices of lemon on the breasts, wrap each in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them. Cut some pickled nectarines in slices, taking off the skin ; soak them a little while in water, and then warm them in some gravy and cullis mixed together, and serve them with the roasted chickens. Chickens a la Perle.—Split and bone two chickens, leaving the legs ; fill each piece with a sa/picon made of sweetbreads, mush- rooms, scraped bacon, parsley, slialots, seasoned with salt and pepper, and roll it up like a pearsliaped pearl, making the leo- the point; sew them up, and braise them with veal, bacon, stock, a glass of white wine, two slices of peeled lemon, parsley, half a clove of garlic, bay leaf, thyme, two’ cloves, pepper, and salt; when done, take out the chickens, skim and strain the sauce, put a little cullis in, and reduce it, and serve it with the chickens. Chicken Pie.—Cut a couple of chickens into jpieces, and season each piece with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Line a dish with puff paste, and put a layer of forcemeat on it; then put in the chi'ckens with some sweetbreads cut in pieces, and seasoned ham sliced thin, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms quartered, the yolks of hard >eggs chopped, fresh mushrooms cocks combs, and asparagus; add a little water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake it. When done, pour in some rich gravy, thickened with flour and butter. If the pie is to be eaten cold, the truffles' morels, and mushrooms must be omitted ’ Second way.- Put half a dozen small chickens in a dish with puff paste, as above with the marrow of two bones rolled in a batter of eggs, a bit of butter rolled in sweet herbs, a dozen hard eggs, and two dozen savory balls ; cover and bake ns be- fore. Pour in a quart of gravy when done. Chicken Pie (Wt).—Having broken the bones of four chickens, cut them in pieces, season them with mace, cinnamon and salt, and put them into a dish with the yoiks of our hard eggs cut in quarters, stoUrtl.choke bottoms; of sun-raisins stoned, citron, lemon, eringoroot, marrow and currants, eight ounces of each ; four slices of lemon (peeled) and fifty balls of forcemeat ; cover the whole with rich puff paste, and bake. Boil a pint, of white wine With the yolks of two eggs ; sweeten and put it to the pie when biffed. .Serve it quite hot. Chicken and Ham Pie—Season some M ‘J164 CHI CIII slices of boiled bam, and lay them on a puff paste about half an inch thick; then season some pieces of chicken, and place them on the ham, with the yolks of some hard eggs, a few truffles and morels, cover these with more slices of ham, seasoned as before, put some gravy in, and a puff crust on the top, and bake it thoroughly. More gravy may be added when done. Chickens d la Pierrette.—Take half a dozen equal-sized chicken wings; lard two of them with bacon, two with truffles, or any kind of root you please, and the remaining two with ham; braise them with a few slices of hacon, some carrots, sweet herbs, consomme, and half a glass of white wine. When done, take them out, glaze three of them ; arrange them on a dish, with the sauce (skimmed, strained and properly reduced with a little cullis) under them. Chickens aux fines Herbes.1 Cut your chickens in half, and do them over the lire with a bit of butter, garlic, two shalots, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, all minced, a little flour, and a glass of white wine, the same of stock, salt and pepper, reduce it to a thick sauce ; take off the fat and serve. Chicken and Iiam potted—Season some pieces of chicken, with mace, cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about three hours in a close-covered pan with some water; then pound them quite small, moistening either with melted butter, or the liquor they were baked in. 1 ound also some ham, and put this with the chicken in alternate layers, in potting-pans, press them down tight, and cover them with butter. . Chicken Puffs.—Mince the breast of a chicken, some lean ham, half an anchovy, a little parsley, shalots, and lemon peel, season these with pepper, salt, Cayenne, and beaten mace; set them on the fire a few minutes, in a little bechamclle; roll out some puff paste thin, cut it into square pieces, and lay in each some of the above mixture; turn the paste over, and fry them in boiling lard, and serve them on <•* vr rump, and sidebones of a cold chicken, and pull all the white parts (without the skin) into shreds; toss them up in a little cream, flour, butter, pounded mace, pepper, salt, and lemon juice, stir them together till the butter is melted; then lay it in a dish place the rump in the middle, and the legs at each end, having previously seasoned and broiled them. Chickens en Redingotes* — Cut the chickens into quarters, take out all the bones; make a farce of fat livers, veal, parsley, pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and | the yolks of two or three eggs ; put some of of this upon each limb, put several of them together, cover them with the same, wrap them in paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take off the paper very care- i fully, so as not to remove the farce from j the chicken, place it on a hot dish, and i pour blond over it. Chickens a la Heine.—Cut all the meat from some cold roasted chickens, which may have been served before, and take out the breastbone; mince the meat, and make it into afarce with cream, suet, grated bacon, parsley, shalots, pepper, salt, nut- meg ; unite these with the yolks of four | eggs, stuff the chickens with this, as if: j they were whole; smooth them with a i a knife dipped in white of egg ; cover : them with bread crumbs, and bake them.. \ When of a nice brown colour, pour sauce i a la reine over, and serve. CmcKENsau Reveil.*—Stufftwochickens with the livers, parsley, scallions, two tarragon leaves, all chopped, and mixed to- • gether with butter, and having parboiled. them in a little fat or butter, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the 1 mean time, put the butter in which the: chickens were parboiled into a stewpan, with two carrots, two onions sliced, garlic, cloves, thyme, basil; stew, but do not let them be coloured ; put in a glass of white f wine, and another of stock, and stew them together for half an hour, and then strain it.° Then take some salad herbs, such as tarragon, pimpernel, chives, chervil, and cress, of each according to your taste, so as all together to make half a handful; chop them very small, and infuse them in the above sauce, on hot ashes for half an hour. Then strain it, press the herbs quite dry, and add to it a bit of butter, worked with flour, salt, and pepper, thicken, and serve it with the chickens. Chickens (Iloasted).—Put the chicken between slices of bacon, fasten the feet to the spit, and haste with its own gravy. Serve with cress round the dish, seasoned with salt and vinegar. The chicken, when covered with bacon, should be wrapped in buttered paper, and if required to be of a pale colour, kept on till roasted : it not, remove the paper about five minutes be- fore it is done, and finish it before a clear Chickens a la Romaine.*—Lard a fine - - —-—CIII CHI 165 fillet of veal, make a hole at one end large enough to contain a small stuffed chicken, sew it up, and put it into a stew- pan, with a few slices of veal and ham, some parsley, shalots, two cloves, basil, stock, and a little pepper; simmer it over a slow fire; when done, skim and strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and spread it over the fillet of veal with a brush. Then put some cullis to the remains of the glaze, and strain it over the meat, and serve. Chickens au Romes tic.—Cut as great a number of small slices of fillets of meat from a tender rabbit as you possibly can, and soak in oil, or melted butter, with chopped shalots, truffles, mushrooms, and parsley; season them with pepper, nut- meg, and salt; take the breastbones from two chickens, so as not to break the skins, and fill them with the above, and sew it in ; then having given them a turn in but- ter over the fire, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Chop up the bones and remains of the rabbit, and set them to simmer with some poultry legs and pinions, half a glass of white wine, and three spoonsful of cullis; skim this sauce well, and strain it over the chickens. Chicken Salad.*—Cut cold roast fowl into small long pieces, taking off the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, at the bottom of a salad-bowl, put the chicken on it with all sorts of saladiug, gherkins, hard eggs cut in quarters, anchovies cut in slips; season with the usual salad dressing. Chicken Salad d la Magnonnaise*—• Trim the fillets of six fat chickens, toss them in a little butter; then drain them in a napkin, press them lightly between two saucepan-lids, and let them cool; m the mean time, dress the twelve fillets Migiions * d la Conti, with truffles or tongue u, I’tcarlale, place them in a dish, cuttmg them in the form of a horseshoe, tlien let them cool. Cut six lettuces small, season them in the usual way, and lay the salad on a table-dish, form it into a sort of crown, upon which arrange your fillets atemately, first a large one, then one d , LonJl- ,Surround the whole with a bor- der of aspic jelly. Pour into the centre of your crown a magnonnaise ravigntte. Chickens Salad d la Heme.*—Roast two fine plump chickens, and when cold cut them in pieces ; toss them up in an ■ r ten pan with salt, a mignonnette, oil, °6.far’ parsley, an onion or slmlot cut t)’• C°yCr tllem with paper, and leave in this for some hours. Boil eight eggs (as nearly the same size as possible) hard, and cool them in taking off the shells. Wash six lettuces, take off the leaves, keeping the hearts quite small; cut the leaves as fine as you can, season them as for common salad, and lay them on a table-dish; then having drained the chickens, and separated them from the parsley, See., lay the legs on the lettuce leaves en couronne, in the centre of which place the wings : on the legs put the rumps and two of the breasts; on these the fillets as close as possible, laying them alternately flat and upright; and on the top of the fillets the two breasts which re- main : be careful in keeping this dish as high and upright as possible. Cut the hard eggs each into eight pieces, put them round the dish as a border, and between every piece set upright a lettuce heart; and on the top of all lay the half of an egg, with a lettuce heart in the middle. Then mix together a good pinch of chervil, some tarragon and pimpernel leaves, scalded, and shred small, salt, pepper, oil, raui- gotle vinegar, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. Amalgamate the whole well, and pour it over the salad. Chicken Sausages.—Make two farces, one of bread crumbs, roasted breast of fowl, calf’s udder, marrow, baked onions, parsley, shalots, mushrooms, all chopped very fine, mixed together with a spoonful of brandy, a little cream, and the yolks of five eggs ; make the other of scalded sweet- bread, livers, mushrooms, season both with spices, salt, and pepper. Split a couple of chickens through the backbone, and lay in each half, some of the first men- tionedyhree, and on that some of the se- cond, roll them up, tie, and braise them with a glass of white wine, the same of stock and some bacon. When done, let them cool; then put the rest of the farce round them, wrap them in caul,’ dip them in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and bake" them. Strain, and mix some cullis and lemon juice with the liquor in which the chickens were braised, and serve it with them. Chicken (Scalloped).—Mince some cold chicken, and heat it up with a little cream pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg ; put this into scallop shells, and cover them with bread crumbs ; put some butter over, and brown them. Chickens in the Scotch ' Manner.—Cut your chickens into quarters, put them into a saucepan, with only just water enough to cover them, a bunch of parsley.CHI CHI 166- some chopped parsley, and a little mace, cover them close down; when it is done enough, add six eggs well beaten; take out the parsley, and serve them in a deep dish with the sauce. Chickens (Souffld of).—Mince the white part of cold roasted chickens, pound it in a mortar, with some bechamelle, butter, pepper, salt, and the yolks of four eggs ; when well beat, strain it through a tammy ; then beat the whites of five eggs to a solid froth, mix it with the former, and put the whole into a deep dish, or raised pie-crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. Chicken (Stewed) au Poisson.-—Cut a carp with a fine roe into pieces, cut a chicken also into pieces, and put them into a stew- pan together, with a slice of ham, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, thyme, hay leaf, basil, two cloves, a small piece of butter. When these have simmered together a little while, add some stock, a glass of wine, a little cullis, flour, pepper, and salt; boil them until the chicken is done, then take out the carp (leaving the roe), the ham and parsley, and put in their place a chopped anchovy, and a few ca- pers. Place the chicken on a dish mixed ■with the onions and roe. Take the fat from the sauce, and strain it over the whole. Chickens (Stuffed).—Boil apintofmilk with a handful of bread crumbs, until very thick ; when cold, beat it up in a mortar, with chopped parsley, and onions, thyme, a bay leaf, butter, the yolks of four eggs, pepper, and salt, stuff two chickens with this, sew it in, and roast the chickens be- tween rashers of bacon. Serve with the following sauce : A bit of butter rolled in flour, some stock, vinegar, a chopped an- chovy, a few capers, salt, and nutmeg, thickened over the fire. Chickens and Tarragon.*—Blanch some tarragon leaves for a quarter of an hour, then throw them into cold water, and when well drained, chop them very small, and mix a fourth part of it with the minced livers of two chickens, a bit of butter, salt and pepper, and stuff the two chickens, drawn and trussed, with it, put them into a stowpan with some butter, and do them up in it; then lay some bacon on the breasts, wrap them in paper, and roast, them. In the mean time put the rest of the tarragon into a saucepan, with a bit of butter worked into flour, the yolks of two e<ws, half a glass of meat gravy, two spoonsful of stock, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. Thicken it over the fire, but do not boil it, lest the eggs turn. Serve" this sauce over the chickens. Chickens u, la Tartare.*—Having pre- pared your chicken, parboil and cut it in half; break the bones, and soak it in melted fresh butter; with parsley, scal- lions, mushrooms, and garlic, cut up small, pepper, and salt. Dip it again in butter, bread it, and broil on a clear fire. It may be served either dry, or with some made mustard stirred in it. Second way.*—Split and break, and take out the bones of two young chickens, press them into around form, season, and wash them over with yolk of egg; cover them with bread crumbs, flatten them a little, and broil over a clear fire. Serve them with sauce Italienne. Chickens (Minced) in Timbale.—Make a batter with two spoonsful of flour, some grated nutmeg, four eggs stirred in, one at a time, and some new milk; it must not be too thin; fry it as for pancakes* but lay it very tbin in the pan, and co- lour it on one side only; cut each (ex- cept two or three) in half; lay a whole one at the bottom of a buttered mould, and the others round the sides; nearly fill up the mould with a thick mince of chicken, turn the ends of the pancakes over it, and lay another whole one at the top. Bake it in a moderate oven, and when done, turn it on a dish, and serve with good gravy. Chickens (Minced) in Timbale another Way.—Mould up the leavings of your paste, roll it out thin, line your timbale moulds, fill with bread crumbs or flour, bake and then empty them, fill with a good mince of chicken, and place on die top a puff paste cover baked purposely; dien serve very hot. Chickens and Tamata Sauce.*—Mix to- gether, in a stewpan, a little butter, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg, a sufficient quantity to put in two chickens; tie it in, and lay thin slices of lemon on die breast of the chickens, and lav them in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of bacon; cover them with the same, and stew them with fire above and below for diree quarters of an hour; when done, drain them in a cloth ; unde them, and servo with tomata sauce. Chickens and Tongues.—Boil thre® voung chickens, a cauliflower, spinach, and six pigs’ tongues, peeled. Place the cauliflower in the centre of a dish, to chickens round it, and beyond them the tongues, with the roots outward; lay •CHI CHI 167 spinach in small heaps between each tongue. Garnish the whole with toasted bacon. The cauliflower should be boiled in milk and water, and kept quite whole. Chicken and Truffles.*—Wash and pare some truffles, and turn them over the fire with a bit of butter and half a pound of grated bacon. Fill a chicken with this mixture, and truss it so that none of the stuffing can escape; tie a slice of bacon and some paper on the breast; roast it, and serve with truffle sauce. Chickens a la Torque.—Boil some rice in good consomme, until properly swelled ; then season it, and fill two chickens with half of it (have a sufficient quantity to stuff them quite full). Wrap them in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them for an hour; mix one spoonful of cream and four of bechamelle with the remainder of the rice; season it well, and cover the chickens with it, and serve them. Chickens with Vegetables.*—Cut some young and tender artichokes in quarters ; take out the choke, and cut off the ends of the green leaves; blanch and boil them in stock, with slices of lemon ; when nearly done, drain them, and do them up in a stewpan, with some butter, parsley, scal- lions, and shalots, stock, a little oil, salt, pepper, and fennel; reduce this sauce, and having boiled or pale-roasted two chickens, pour it over, and place the artichokes round them. Instead of artichokes, any of the following vegetables may be used : Chards, sorrel, spinach, lettuce, cucumbers, French beans, morels, peas, or salsify. Chickens a la Venitienne*—Parboil two Or three fat chickens in some stock, with a little butter, and having cut them up, lay them in a stewpan lined with slices of bacon ; surround them with well-blanched parsley roots, and put in a bunch of green parsley. Cover the pieces of chicken with slicesofveal, salt, and pepper, andmoisten with consomme ; let it stand over a mode- rate fire, and when half done, add a glass of white Champagne. When doner ar- range the pieces on a dish, and place the parsley roots and leaves round; reduce the sauce, and pour it, with Seville orange juice, on the whole. You may omit the wine, if you think proper; but roots of any sorts you please must then be added. Chickens a la Villageoise.—Take out the breastbone of a couple of chickens, and truss them as for boiling; lard them on the breast with sprigs of parsley, and on "e sides with bacon; roast them; baste with lard to keep the parsley crisp. In the mean while prepare a ragout of cucumbers ; split open the breasts of the chickens when they are ready, and put in the ragout. Serve with cullis under them. Chicken Water.—Take a cock, or large fowl, flay it; then bruise it with a rolling- pin, and put it into two quarts of water, with a crust of bread. Let it boil half' away, and strain it off. Chickens (Fillets of) a la Bechamelle■ Pannde.—Cut off the hind parts (the legs and rumps) wrap the breasts in buttered papers and roast them ; when cold, cut them in fillets and put them into a dish with bechamelle sauce; strew bread crumbs on them, and baste with melted butter; colour it with a salamander, or in the oven. CnicKENS (Fillets of) in Italian Salad.— Cut the fillets of one or two chickens, each into three thin slices. Shred a cabbage, a lettuce, and some celery small; slice some cucumbers, and mix them all with a little pickled chervil, and put them in a salad-dish, arrange the fillets on these in the shape of a star. Garnish them with two hard eggs, half a dozen anchovies shred small, a few French beans, a cauli- flower boiled, and a sliced cucumber, and dress it with Italian salad sauce. Chickens (Fillets of) in Savory Jelly.—. Cut the meat of two roasted chickens into thin fillets, the size of a shilling ; prepare some savory or aspic j’elly, by putting the whites of four eggs in a stewpan, about three spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt; beat them up with a fork, pour two quarts of good consomme, stir it over the fire, continually, till it boils; then take out the spoon and let it simmer till reduced to half. Run it gently through a jelly-bag, throw in a little chopped tarra- gon and chervil; half fill a mould with the jelly, and when nearly set, place the chicken neatly round, and when quite set, fill it up. When the whole is quite stiff, dip the mould in warm water a minute, and turn out the jelly. Chickens (Turbans of Fillets of) a la Sultane.—Cover a large piece of bread with thin slices of bacon; place it in the middle of a dish, and surround it to the height of throe inches, with a farce a que- nelles that has been kept in ice, stick in this, at equal distances, larded filets mig- tions of chickens; cover the dish with an earthenware pan as close as possible, and bake it; when done, glaze the filets, and make a small hole in the farce between each filet to receive a cock 's kidney, whichCIII CIII 168 must he very white, so as to resemble a pearl. Take the bread from the centre, drain the fat off with crumb of bread, and put in its place a blanquette of chickens. If truffles are in season, garnish with a ball made out of a truffle, and the perle or kid- ney ; and then scallops, with truffles, in the middle. Chicken (Scallops of) u la Conti.—Pro- ceed as above ; reserve the Jilets mignons, garnish with truffles, cut into various shapes; lard the filets, and divide the thickest part of each ; preserve the right side point, turn over the two divided parts, and give them the shape of an arrow. Or you may make them in the form of an S. Arrange the scallops as an obelisk in the middle of a dish, and lay the filets and truffles round it. Chickens (Scallops of) a I'Essence of Cu- cumbers.—Cut scallops from the fillets of four chickens, put them in a pan with some clarified butter, sprinkle them with salt, and serve them with the following sauce : Pare and slice some green cucumbers, and lay the larger slices, having taken out the seeds (such as are the size of a lialfcrown), in salt and vinegar, for a little while ; then drain them on a clean cloth, and let them Stew gently with some sauce tournee, a small bit of sugar, and a little salt; when done, drain them again. In the mean time mince a few cucumbers, and put them with the parings into butter, sweat them till melted ; mix this with the slices, and boil them gently, till all the butter is ex- tracted, then reduce and mix it with some bechamelle, and strain it through a tammy; when the scallops are wanted, toss them up over a stove; drain the butter, and add a little cream, and put them into the sauce. Garnish with the cucumbers drained. Chickens (Scallops of) with Trufiles.— Cut the fillets of three chickens into scal- lops, about the size of a crown piece, and throw them into clarified butter; have ready some truffles, peeled and cut of the same size and form as the scallops; sprin- kle them with salt. Reduce the cuttings of the truffles in some consomme, and mix it with veloute. Toss up the scallops and truffles just before serving, add a little thick cream, and servo with the •veloute. CHINA Chile.—Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat.; put two onions, n lettuce, a pint of green pens, a tea-spoonful of pep- per, four spoonsful of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stewpan closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish ■ of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved, add a little. Chinese Temple.—Having boiled an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it by till cold, and then add to it an egg well beaten. With this, make four ounces of flour into a very stiff paste; roll it out as thin as possible, and lay it in a set of tins the form of a temple, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, take the paste from the tins, and join each piece together according to the proper forms, with isinglass and water. The lower part, of course, ought to be stronger than the top, in order thatit may sustain the weight of the whole. The pieces also must be cut as exact as possible to the shape of the tins. CHITTERLINGS.*—Take some hogs’ entrails, cleanse them carefully, and cut them into convenient lengths ; put them into water with vinegar, laurel or bay, thyme, and basil, for six or eight hours; then cut one part of these entrails and some pork together, with pork fat, into dice, seasoning the whole with pepper, salt, fine spice, and a little aniseed in powder; fill the remainder of the en- trails with all these ingredients, but not to tightness, to prevent bursting; tie them with thin twine, and boil them in half water and half milk, with salt, thyme, bay, and basil; when they are sufficiently boiled, leave them to cool in their liquor. Boil on a clear fire, and serve them. N.B. Some previously soak them for six hours in white wine ; others, in melted lard. They are also boiled in stock, toge- ther with carrots, parsnips, and a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, laurel or bay; pierce them before broiling. Chitterlings <i la llouen.—Take a calf’s or lamb’s chaudron and some pork flee; cut them into small pieces; season them with a small quantity of pounded aniseed, salt, and fine spices; boil them in milk and fat broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few sliced onions; leave them to cool in the liquor in which they are boiled. Chitterlings (Veal.)—Scald a calf’s chaudron and some udder about fifteen minutes, then cut them into fillets, with a pound of pickled pork; mix these toge- ther, and add a few chopped shalots, salt, fine spices, four spoonsful of cream, and four yolks of eggs. Finish as beef chitterlings.169 CIIO CHO CHOCOLATE.* — According; ns you wish to make this beverage, either ivith !milk or water, put a cup of one or other of these liquids into a chocolate-pot, with one ■ ounce of cake chocolate. Some persons dissolve the chocolate in a little water before they put it into the milk. As soon as the milk or water begins to boil, mill it. When the chocolate is dissolved, and begins to bubble, take it off the fire, letting it stand near it for a quarter of an hour; then mill it again to make it frothy; after- wards serve it out in cups. The chocolate must not be milled, unless it is prepared with cream. Chocolate in cakes should always be made use of for ices and dragees. Chocolate.-—Simmer the chocolate on a slow fire, in the proportion of two ounces to each cup ■ stir it about a good deal with a chocolate mill, and when it is properly dissolved and thickened, add a yolk of an egg beat up, to the proportion of four cups, or the whites equally beat up, and the first froth thrown away; mix it first with a little of the chocolate, which add to the rest, and mill it very well to incorporate together; this will make it of a proper consistence, and of a proper froth; it is best made a day or two before using. If you keep it ready made any time, boil it a moment every other day; sweeten it according to taste.* * The French author says, dissolve and boil one tablette, viz., a cake or lozenge, to each cup. It is to be observed, that their chocolate is made into small cakes, which contain about twelve to a pound, 1 and is sweetened in the.making, which is commonly called Dutch chocolate in England. Chocolate (to make either with Milk or Water).—Divide apound of chocolate into twelve parts; take as many parts as you wish to make cups of chocolate; put into a chocolate-pot an equal number of cups of water; let your chocolate dissolve ; mill it, then put your chocolate-pot on a gentle fire; let it boil slowlv, keeping it con- stantly stirring : immediately before it is served, mill it. To make chocolate with milk, you must divide your pound of chocolate into six- ! teen parts. Chocolate Almonds.—Take a pound of chocolate finely grated, and a pound and a Bait of the best sugar, finely sifted; soak some gum dragon in orange-flower water, *®d work them into what form you Please ; the paste must be stiff; dry them in a stove. You may write devices on paper, roll them up and put them in the middle. Chocolate Biscuits*—Whip to snow the whites of six eggs ; mix with them as much scraped chocolate as will colour and taste them; add some powder sugar and some fine flour; make it into a paste; shape your biscuits ; put them in paper, and bake them in a gentle oven. Chocolate Biscuits.—Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and put it on a tin over a stove, to make it warm ; then put a pound of powdered sugar in a basin ; and when the chocolate is quite warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, and mix it well with about eight whites of eggs ; if you find it too thin, add some more powdered sugar, to bring it to a paste, so that you can roll into lumps the size of walnuts : let your oven be of a moderate heat; put three papers under them ; let the oven j ust raise and make them crisp and linn ; and let them be quite cold before you take them, off the paper. Chocolate Biscidts.*—Take a dozen fresh eggs, half a pound of flour, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a pound and a half of powdered sugar ; beat these ingredients up well in a mortar for a quarter of a hour; then lay your biscuits on white paper, and bake them. Vanilla and cinnamon biscuits are made in the same way. Chocolate (Blancmange of).—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of good chocolate, and the same of sugar, in a glass of boiling water : extract the milk of almonds in the usual way, and having divided it, mix with one half of the chocolate four drachms of isinglass, and with the other, six ounces of sugar dissolved in a glass of warm water, and four drachms of isinglass. Proceed with the rest of the operation as in Blancmange of Cedrat. Chocolate Bonbons.*—Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire, to dis- solve it; and havingboiled two pounds of sugar to fort per le, put a spoonful or two into the chocolate; stir it till it forms a thin paste, and then pour it on the sugar, and boil both together to caramel. In the mean time melt a little butter, skim, and pour it off clear into a basin; take a spoon- iul of it, and rub it with your hand over a marble slab or table: on this pour the chocolate and sugar; then take two ends ol a sword blade (one in each hand), and press lines an inch apart all down it; cross them in like manner, so as to markthe sugar in small squares all over; doing it as quick as possible, lest the sugar should cool before you have done; then pass the sword blade between the marble and the sugar ; lay under the latter sheets of paper; and when cold, break it into pieces according to the marks, and wrap each square in paper. Chocolate Bouchtes de Dames*—Make your bouchees de dames as directed (see that article), but lay them rather more of an oval form; when baked, take them from the papers. Then put two ounces of very fine sugar (sifted), and three ounces of grated chocolate, into a pan, with one and a half whites of eggs; stir it with a silver spoon for eight or ten minutes ; and having filled the bouchees with marmalade, mask them with this mixture; as you do them, strew crystallized sugar over, and place them carefully on a baking-plate covered with paper. When all are done, put them in the oven for five or six minutes, and serve them when cold. Chocolate Cannellons* Prepare twenty pannequets; mask them lightly with chocolate creampdtissiere; strew over them some crushed macaroons ; roll them out; cut them through the middle ; dip them in batter, and fry them : glaze, and serve them quite hot. Chocolate Comfits*—Take two ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a little water over the fire ; when it is dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it upon a pound of masse pain or sweet paste, to which add some cinnamon or vanilla at discretion; mix the whole well together; then spread it over some wafer shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. If the paste does not appear deep coloured enough, you may colour it with bolus Armenicum. Chocolate Conserve.*—Dissolve two Ounces of good chocolate in a little water, put it into a skillet with half a pound of sugar boiled to perlc; keep the sugar stir- ring, and when it boils put the conserve into moulds. Chocolate Conserve.* — Dissolve a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate in a sm;dl quantity of clarified sugar ; boil a pound of sugar to the premiere plume, put your chocolate into it, stirring it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. Chocolate Cream.*—Take a pint of milk, a gill of cream, the t'olks of three eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar; mix these ingredients together, set them on the fire, stir it constantly, turd let it boil till reduced to a quarter; then add two ounces of grated chocolate ; and hav- ing boiled a little longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve it cold. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape two squares of chocolate, and put them in a stewpan, with half a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pint of milk, and half a pint of cream ; let it boil till a third is consumed, and when half cold, beat up the yolks of six eggs with it, strain the whole through a sieve, and then put the small cups or dish in which the cream is to be served into a pan containing enough boiling water to reach above halfway up the cream ; cover this pan, and put a little fire on the lid; when done, and the cream cool, serve. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape into one quart of thick cream one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth take it off, and leave it to be cold; then add die whites of nine eggs, whisk and take up die froth on sieves as others are done ; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Chocolate Cream.—Take about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milk, and stir it over a gentie fire till it looks smooth and thick ; then add a litde more milk, and stir it again over the fire; continue diis till it takes the thickness of cream; sweeten it to your palate with clarified sugar ; stir in a litde thick cream with a very little isinglass, rub it through the tammv, and set it in the mould. Chocolate Cream.—Take a quart of cream, a pint of white wine, and a litde juice of lemon; sweeten it well, lay in a sprig of rosemary, grate some chocolate K and mix all together; stir it over the fire till it is thick, and pour it into your cups. Chocolate Cream au Bain-marie.*— Break a quarter of a pound of chocolate into small pieces, and dissolve it in a glass of water with a small quantity of vanilla and half a pound of sugar. IMien these ingredients are perfectly dissolved, add five glasses of boiling milk ; pour this mixture, a litde at a time, on the yolks of ten, and one whole egg ; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, add a grain of salt, strain and finish as directed, Cream au Bain- marie. Chocolate Cream a la Franfaise. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water overCHO 171 CIIO a gentle fire; then, pour into it, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs ; add half a pound of sugar, and four glasses of boiling milk. Stir it constantly over a moderate fire till the cream thickens ; then boil it up once and strain it; when nearly cold, add six drachms of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. See Cream a la Fvamgaise. Chocolate Whipped Cream*—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in half a glass of boiling water over a moderate fire ; then let it cool; add to it a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and mix it with whipped cream. See Whipped Cream. Chocolate Cream Pdtissiere.*—Grate a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and mix it with two ounces of powder sugar and a quarter of a pound of sweet macaroons. Put this mixture into a cream pdtissiere, prepared as directed in that article. Chocolate Drops.—Take one pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a pewter sheet or plate, and put it in the oven just to warm the chocolate; then put it into a copper stewpan, with three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar; mix it well over the fire, take it off, and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, put them on white paper, and when they are all on, take the sheet of paper by each comer, and lift it up and down so that the paper may touch the table each time, and by that means you will see the drops come quite fat, about the size of a sixpence; put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are on the paper, then shake them off, and you will see all the chocolate drops are covered with the sugar nonpa- reils; let them stand till cold, and they will come off well, and then put them in a box papered. Chocolate (Floating Island of).—Take the whites of two eggs, and mix them up with two ounces of chocolate scraped ; pile it on a thin custard or jelly. Chocolate aw Fromage.—Whip a pint and a half of rich cream. Melt a quarter of a pound of chocolate that you have pre- viously rasped or pounded ; add a little water to it; when melted, mix with it a little isinglass and a little sugar; then mix that with the whipped cream, fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Do not neglect to whip it over ice till you find the mixture begins to freeze ; then put it into the mould, and surround it with ice. Chocolate (Fromage liavarois of),*— Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water, and boil it for five minutes stirring constantly; when perfectly dissolved, add a glass of good cream (also boiling), six ounces of powder sugar, and six drachms of clarified isinglass: when well mixed, strain it off into the bol in ice, stir it with a silver spoon, and as soon as it begins to take, mix a fromage a la Chantilly, and finish as usual. Chocolate (Frothed or Whipped).*— Put half a pound of chocolate to a glass of water over a small fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolved; then take it off and add six yolks of eggs, a pint of double cream, and three quarters of a pound of powder sugar. Pour the whole into a pan, and when cold, whip it up as directed. See Frothed Cream. Chocolate Genoise.*■—Make the Genoise in the usual way, adding to the ingredients a small quantity of vanilla. When done make a glaze with three ounces of grated chocolate, two ounces of powder sugar, and half the white of an egg; do them over with this, and put them into the oven for two minutes to dry. Chocolate Ices (Cream).—Take any quantity of chocolate, melt it over the fire in a small pan ; when melted, pour it into that in which you are to make your cream; break your yolks of eggs into it (four eggs to every pint of cream), add some pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stir- ring continually ; then add your cream by little and little, stirring and turning it till the whole is mixed properly together; then set your pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon till you see your composition is near boiling, then take it off immediately; for, from the mo- ment you set your composition over the fire till that it offers to boil, it has suffi- cient time to incorporate well and thicken sufficiently, without need of boiling; and should you let it boil, you would risk the turning your cream into whey, on account of the yolks of eggs, which would do too much. Take great care likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will turn to curds and whey; therefore, be careful, stir it continually, from the time you set it on the fire till you take it off; then put it in the sabotiere to make it congeal after the usual manner. Chocolate Cream Ices.—Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on a slow fire; LCHO 172 CIIO when properly done, mix it with a pint of cream, three yolks of new-laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugar. Chocolate Ice (Witter).—Take three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and mix with it half a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; mix it well, and freeze it thick. Chocolate Macaroons.*—Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate on a tin plate over a coal fire, and when it is dissolved pour it on a plate; put to it a spoonful or two of sweet almond paste, made as for maca- roons, stir it in well, and then pour it upon the remainder of the almond paste, in which you have mixed a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon or vanilla, or both : beat them together well in a mortar, lay them on paper, and bake them for three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Chocolate (Mock).—Take a pint of milk, boil it over a slow fire with some whole cinnamon, and sweeten it with Lis- bon sugar, beat up the yolks of three eggs, throw altogether into a chocolate-pot, and mill it one way or it will turn. Serve it in chocolate-cups. Chocolate Parfait Amour*—For four bottles of brandy, take one pound of the best chocolate, cut in small bits ; a little salt, two cloves, and a little cinnnamon ; you must infuse all in the brandy, with two bottles and half a pint of water, with whites of eggs, and filter it through the paper. You must be careful not to take more than two bottles from every four, except from the cinnamon, from which you are to take as much as you can get. Chocolate Pastils.—Take a little choco- late, which put in a pan over the fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon; when it is melted, take half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded in a mortar and sifted, which dissolve in a little clear water. When that is done, put in your chocolate; if you find the paste too thick, add a little water, enough to bring it to that degree of li- quidity that you may take it up on a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and fiat drops, which we call pastils, of the sizo of a sixpence; let them dry naturally in a cupboard; and when dry, take them off from the paper, and put them in boxes. Chocolate Pastil Paste.—Melt half an ounce of gum dragon in a little water till it is quite dissolved and thick; sift it through a linen cloth, pound it iu a mor- tar with a quarter part of whites of eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and half a pound of fine powder sugar, mixed by degrees, and adding either more or less sugar, ac- ; 4 cording as the paste is malleable; it must i 4 be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any kind of corn or beans, &c. Chocolate Petits Gateaux Royaux.*— Grate three ounces of vanilla chocolate, and mix it with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, diluted with a little white of egg; prepare and finish your cakes as directed. See Almonds Petits Gateaux Royaux. These cakes may be flavoured with ce- drat, lemon, Seville or sweet orange, by grating the rind of either of these fruits on. sugar, which must be crushed and well dried before it is used. Chocolate Petits Pains.*—These are made in the same way as Petits Pains a la Duchesse(see that article), but without the domre. When cold, fill them with a cream patissiere, mixed with two ounces of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with sugar, fla- voured with vanilla; then put three ounces of sifted sugar, the same of chocolate, and half the white of an egg, into a pan ; stir these ingredients with a silver spoon until you have a smooth transparent glaze, with which mask the top and sides of the petits pains, spreading it equally with the blade of a knife. Chocolate Projitrolles.*—Mix a quar- ter of a pound of grated chocolate in a glass of cream patissiere; spread half of this carefully on a silver dish, and put it in the oven for halt an hour, that it may burn to the dish ; then mix in a pan two ounces of grated chocolate, the same of powder sugar, and a sufficient quantity of white of egg to make a smooth glaze, with which glaze eight choux, rather larger than common ; dry them a minute or two in the oven, and fill them with the remainder of the cream; then take the largest, and place it in the centre of the dish of cream, and arrange the remaining seven round it, as close as you well can ; put it in the oven again for a quarter of an hour, and then serve. Chocolate Puff's.—Take half a pound of chocolate grated, and a pound of double- refined sugar, beat fine and sifted; with the whites of two eggs make a paste, and have ready some more sugar to strew on the tins; turn the rough side upwards, and bake them in a slow oven ; you mayCHO 173 CHO form the paste into any shape, and colour it with different colours. Chocolate Puffs.—Beat and sift half a pound of double-refined sugar, scrape into it an ounce of chocolate very fine, and mix them together. Beat the white of an egg to a high froth, and strew in the sugar and chocolate. Keep heating it till as stiff as a paste. Then sugar the paper, drop them on, the size of a sixpence, and bake them in a slow oven. Chocolate Souffle.—Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, which cut as small as you can, and melt it on the fire in a little water. When it is entirely melted, throw it into souffhZ preparation. Chocolate (Petit Souffle of).*—Having grated a quarter of a pound of chocolate, put it on a sheet of paper, and lay it at the opening of the oven for five minutes; in the meanwhile, dilute six ounces of sifted sugar with the white of an egg; then add to it the chocolate ; when the mixture is very firm add a little more wliite of egg, and conclude your operation in the usual way. See Petits Souffles. Chocolate Sweetmeats.*— Take two ounces of chocolate, and break it into a little warm water, put it on the fire, and when quite dissolved, mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, to which may be add- ed vanilla or cinnamon ; stir it up well, and then spread it on wafer paper in what forms you please,'and bake them in a mo- derate oven. If the sweetmeats be not sufficiently dark coloured, add a little bole ammoniac. Chocolate Tart.—Put two spoonsful of fine flour in a stewpan, with the yolks of six eggs, reserve their whites, mix these with some milk, add a quarter of a pound of rasped chocolate, with a stick of cinna- mon, some sugar, a little salt, and some rasped green lemon peel; let them be a little time over the fire, after which put in a little preserved lemon peel cut small, and having tasted whether it has a fine fla- vour, let it cool; when cold, mix this ■with the reserved whites of eggs beat up to a froth, when you use it, put it into pattypans, and put either puff or tart paste over them ; ice, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Chocolate Tart. —Mix a little flour and cream, with a proportionate quantity of chocolate, a bit of sugar, and three eggs ; boil it about half an hour, stirring continually for fear it should catch at bot- tom ; put it into the paste, and whites of eggs beat and frothed upon it; glaze it with sugar. Chocolate Wine.—Take a pint of sher- ry, nr a pint and a half of port, four ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of fine sugar, and half an ounce of white starch, or fine flour ; mix, dissolve, and boil all these together for about ten or twelve mi- nutes. But if your chocolate is made with sugar, take double the quantity of chocolate, and half the quantity of sugar. CHOUDER.—Lay some slices cutfrom the fat part of a belly-piece of pork, in a deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the pork. Bone and cut a fresh cod into thin slices, and place them on the pork ; then put a layer of pork, on that a layer of biscuit, then alternately the other ma- terials until the pan is nearly full, season with pepper and salt, put in about a pint and a half of water, lay a paste over the whole, cover the stewpan very close, and let it stand, with fire above as well as be- low, for four hours; then skim it well, and put it in a dish, pour a glass of Ma- deira made hot over it, also some Jamaica pepper, stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters ; brown the paste slightly, and lay it over the whole. CHOUX.*—Put a pint of water into a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh butter, the rinds of two lemons grated, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a very little salt; as soon as the water begins to boil, add as much flour as the liquor will imbibe; when the paste becomes very thick, keep stirring with a spoon until quite done. After that, break into it a sufficient num- ber of eggs to make the paste soft; taking care that it be firm enough to allow you to work it up with the hand; when it may be formed according to fancy. This pasto may be glazed and garnished either with almonds or pistachio nuts ; when baking the choux, be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. Ibid.—Put into a large stewpan a quar- ter of a pound of fresh butter, half a pint of water, two ounces of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a little salt; when the but- ter is quite melted, take out the lemon peel, and add, a little at a time, some very dry sifted flour. Stir these well over the fire, until a paste is formed that may be easily removed from the sides of the pan. i hen take it from the fire, and break in half a dozen eggs, one by one ; when the eggs are well mixed in, form yourCHO CHU 174 paste into little balls the size of a marble, with a spoon, and place them on a baking- sheet, about an inch apart, as they in- crease a good deal in size; wash each over with dorure previously mixed with a little milk, and bake them in a moderately heated oven; when done, take them from the baking-sheet with a knife; make a small opening at the side, and put in any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper, and dish them en buisson. Another way.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter, with rather more than half a pint of milk, a little sugar, and lemon peel, into a stewpan, and set it on the lire ; as soon as it boils, add to it a quar- ter of a pound of hour, and with a wooden spoon stir it for about two minutes after the paste is formed ; break into this four eggs, one by one, then add a little salt and some pounded ratafia biscuits ; beat it up a minute or two, and then drop it on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven. These are also cut open, and sweet- meats inserted; be careful to keep the oven close. Choux a la d’Artoise. — Proceed as above, but instead of four, put in the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs ; then add the pounded ratafia, some orange flowers, and a gill of warm cream. When all these ingredients are well mixed to- gether, drop them in lengths about the size of a finger; egg, and bake them; before they are entirely done, sift a little sugar over, and when quite done, glaze them with a salamander. Serve them hot. Ciioux en Biscuits.—Also called Ga- teau a la D’AnToisE, and are made like petits Choux a la d’Artoise. Choux a la Mecque*—Put two glasses of milk and two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, making them into a paste, with a proper quantity of flour; having dried it a few minutes, add two more ounces of butter, and half a glass of milk, and dry it again a little. 1 ake it from the stewpan, and stir into it two eggs and two ounces of powder sugar; when well mixed together, add two more eggs, a spoonful of whipped cream, and a grain of salt; lay the choux with a spoon about three inches long ; dores and mask them with sugar. Hake them in a moderate oven. These choux may be flavoured accord- ing to taste, with orange, lemon, cedrat, &c., by grating either of these fruits on the sugar employed in making them. Choux (Petits) Meringvds.— Having made and baked a sufficient number of jietits choux pralinees, but without al- monds; cut off' the tops, and pour into them some ltulienne cream. Beat the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, adding to them as much powder sugar as will render them very smooth ; and drop it on the jietits choux ; strew su- gar over this, and bake them in a mode- rate oven. These must be served hot. Choux (Petits) Pralintes.—Chop some Jordan almonds extremely small, and mix them with a small quantity of pounded sugar; sprinkle these ingredients over petits choux, which must be dropped so as to make them double the usual size. Gar- nish these as above. Choux a la Reine—Are made the same way as a la d’Artoise, only drop them on the baking-plate of a round, instead of a long form : neither are they glazed. Choux (Basket of Petits) a la Chantilly. —Roll out some very small choux, with a little flour, and bake, but do not glaze them. Boil some clarified sugar to the degree casst; then, with a small pointed stick, take up the choux, and dip them, one at a time, in the sugar, and as you do this, place them round a buttered mould, of the form of a basket, or whatever other form you may think proper ; butter a hoop of the same size as the top of your basket, stick together a single row of choux, .half- way round it, and then fasten it to each side of the basket; fill it with Chantilly cream, and serve it. CHUB (Boiled).—Put as much beer vinegar and water into a fish-kettle as will cover the fish ; a good quantity of salt, and some fennel. Scale and cleanse a chub, and when the water boils put in the fish. When it is sufficiently boiled, lay it on a board to drain, let it lie for an liour, put it into a pewter dish over a chafing- dish of coals, with melted butter, and serve it very hot. Chub (Broiled).—Scale a chub, cut off the tail and fins, wash it well, and slit it down the middle ; make two or three cuts on the back with a knife, and broil it on a wood fire. Baste it all the time it is broil- ing with fresh butter and salt, and thyme shred small. Chub (Roasted).—Scale and thoroughly cleanse a chub ; wash it, and stuff it with sweet herbs, then tie it to the spit with splinters, roast it, keep basting with vine- gar and butter, well seasoned with salt.CIN 175 CIN CIDER.—See Cyder. CINNAMON Almonds.—See Almonds. Cinnamon Cukes.—Whisk up half a do- zen eggs with three table-spoonsful of rose water \ add to it a pound of sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quantity of flour to make it into a paste; roll it out thin, and out it into whatever forms your, fancy may dictate, place them on paper, and bake them. When done, remove them from the paper. Keep them dry. Cinnamon (Candied).—Soak cinnamon in water for four-and-twenty hours, and then cut it into pieces about an inch long; prepare some sugar to grand lisse, and give the cinnamon a boil in it; drain and dry it in a stove to the proper consistence ; then put in the moulds with sugar boiled to souffle, and when half cold, dry it. Be- fore the candy is removed from the moulds, they should he laid on one side for some time. Keep them in paper in a dry place. Cinnamon (Candied).—Cut some cinna- mon into small sticks of about an inch or an inch and a half long ; then put them into thin sugar, and boil them as it were in a syrup. Then take off the pan, and set it by for five or sis hours to soak, take them out and lay them on a wire grate, dry them thoroughly in the stove ; afterwards put them in order in tin moulds upon little grates made for the purpose, and set into tile moulds, so that there may be three rows set one above another, separated by those grates. In the mean time, boil sugar till it is blown, and pour it into your mould, so that some of it may lie upon the uppermost grate; then set them in the stove with a covered fire, and let them stand all night; the next morning take notice whether the cinnamon be well co- agulated ; turn the mould upside down and set it in the stove again, with a plate underneath; and when it is thoroughly drained, take out your sticks of cinnamon, loosening them, by little and little, gently ; then la)' them upon a sieve, set in the stove, and dry them thoroughly. Cinnamon (Conserve of).*—Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it with a little clarified sugar, or syrup of mallows ; boil Wo pounds of sugar to petit casse, throw m the cinnamon, stir it well, and then Jake it from the fire, and when the sugar begins to whiten, pour tho conserve into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. Cinnamon ( Dragees or Sugared) .*—Soak a quarter of a pound of the best cinnamon ln sticks for twelve hours in the water to soften it; at the end of that time, cut it into slips, lay them on a sieve in a warm place for some days. When quite hard and dry, boil some fine sugar to the degree grand perle ; have ready a quantity of fine powder, and proceed in the same manner as in doing Almond Dragees, until the cin- namon sticks are of the proper thickness; those which are to be twisted or curled, should not be so thick as the others. Be equally particular in removing the sugar that cakes at the bottom of the pan, as in making Almond Dragees. Cinnamon Dragees (Common).*—In- fuse a quarter of a pound of gum dragon, in as much water as will cover it ; the next day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir it well with a pestle, and the longer it is stirred the whiter it becomes ; in rather more than a quarter of an hour, add to it the caked sugar which was re- moved from the preserving-pan, and which must be well pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and by degrees, two or three pounds of flour; moisten the whole occasionally with water ; when the paste is of a proper consistence, place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, not thicker than the eighth of an inch, and then cut it into slips of the same size as the cinna- mon (see above) ; put them on paper or a sieve in a warm place for some days. Then boil some common sugar to perle, and sugar the slips of paste as above di- rected ; instead of the fine powder, flour is sufficient, until the last two layers, when the powder may be used to give them whiteness. When of the requisite size, lay them on sieves to dry. In a few days they may be curled and coloured, which is done in the same manner as coriander seeds. Observe, fine sugared cinnamon is always white. Cinnamon (Essence of).—This is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in highly rec- tified spirits of wine, in the proportion of half a drachm of the former to an ounce of the latter. Cinnamon (Fine).*—Put two ounces of fine cinnamon, the rinds of two lemons, and an ounce of stick-liquorice, beaten, into two quarts of the best brandy, and a pint of water, cover it close, and when it has stood for some days, distil it. Dis- solve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add to it your liqueur, and strain it. . Cinnamon Ice.—Infuse some cinnamon in hot water for an hour, and givo it a boil ■CIN 176 CIT add to tlie infusion a pint of water and half a pound of sugar ; stir them well to- gether, and then put it into the sabotiere, and surround it with ice and salt; stir it with a flat pewter spoon, till it begins to freeze, then put the mixture into your mould, and keep it in ice till ready to serve. Cinnamon Parfuit Amour. — For four bottles of brandy you must take four ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, thirty cloves, thirteen coriander seeds, a little salt, mixed together in brandy, let it infuse for eighteen hours; you are to take from the still as much as you can; two pounds of sugar clarified in two bottles and a half of water, with the whites of two or three eggs well beaten together, mixed with the spirit, and filtered through blotting-paper; after you have mixed the spirit, take care to cork your bottles well. Cinnamon Pastils.— Dissolve half an ounce of gum dragon in a glass of water, and strain it through a lawn sieve into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quan- tity of sifted sugar to make the paste of a proper consistence; form into such fi- gures as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. Keep them in a dry place. Cinnamon Pastils.—Put a quarter of an ounce of gum dragon for every pound you use, into a pan, to be dissolved in a little water; when it has stood for two or three days, stir it with a spoon and strain it; put it into a mortar with the whites of a couple of eggs, and some finely-sifted cin- namon powder; sift powdered sugar into it by little and little, temper all till the paste becomes pliable. Make your pastils in what shapes you please, and dry them in a stove. Cinnamon Sweetmeats.*—-Take a pound of marchpane paste, and dilute it with as many whites of eggs as will make it spread easily with a knife ; add to this, a spoon- ful or two of prepared bole ammoniac, which will give it a fine red tinge, and half an ounce of cinnamon powder. When all these ingredients are well mixed; cut some wafer paper into such forms as you may think proper, and lay on them the paste about the thickness of the eighth of an inch; place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, they may he finished in the following manner: Boil some sugar in orange-flower water to la plume, and ns you take the sweetmeats from the oven, dip a hair pencil into the syrup, and brush them over; this dries almost immediately, and considerably im- proves tlic look of them. Cinnamon (Syrup of).*—Put five ounces : of good cinnamon into a previously-heated i glass cucurbite, or any delft or earthen- ware vessel capable of resisting fire, pour • into it two pounds, or a quart, of nearly boiling water, close the vessel hermeti- ; ii cally, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours; at the end of that time draw off the infusion without expressing the cin- namon ; add to it two pounds of sugar, coarsely pounded, boil the whole to grand perle, then take it from the fire, and when about half cold, the flavour may be im- proved by the addition of a few drops of ' spirit of cinnamon. Cinnamon Tincture. — Bruise three q ounces of fine cinnamon, and pour on it i a quart of the best brandy. Cinnamon Wafers*■—Pound and sift li six ounces of sugar, and put it with an i) equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the \ same of flour, half an ounce of powdered jl cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these up ll| in an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient I quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but II not too clear paste. Make an iron plate ■ quite hot, rub it well with butter, then lay 1 on it a spoonful of the paste ; fry it, and when 1 brown on both sides, roll it, still over the hot iron, round a small stick; do this until all | the paste is used. Cinnamon Water.—Bruise two pounds of good cinnamon, and steep it, with half a pound of citron and orange peel, and a quarter of an ounce of coriander seeds, in three gallons of Malaga sack, for two days, then distil it. Dissolve sugar in rose water; put it to the cinnamon water, and bottle it. Cinnamonum.*—Take a quarter of a pound of cinnamon, two drachms of mace, and one ounce of stick-liquorice; bruise them well, and then put them into three quarts of the best brandy ; let the infusion jl stand for some days before you distil it; j dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints and a half of water; mix this syrup I with the liqueur, and then strain them. This is sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. ! CITRON (Candied).—Pare the citrons j very thin and narrow, and throw them into 1 water ; these are called fagots ; then cut the citron into slices of any thickness yon think proper ; take out the inner part with great care, so as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the fagots into boiling water; when tender, drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to souffle; then put in the rings, and boil them together. Take it from the fire, andCIT 177 CIT when a little cool, rub the sugar against the side of the preserving-pan with the back of a spoon; as soon as it becomes white, take out the rings with a fork very carefully, one by one, and lay them on a wire grate to drain : boil and proceed with the fagots in a similar way; when taken out, cut them into proper lengths with a pair of scissars, and lay them also on the wire to drain. Citron Cheesecakes.—Boil a pint of cream, and when cold, mix with it two eggs well beaten ; then boil them together until they become a curd. Beat a few blanched almonds in a mortar, with a little orange-flower water; put them to the curd, and add some Naples biscuits and green citron, chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake in tins. Citron Cream.—Boil a pint of cream with half an ounce of isinglass, a little cin- namon and lemon peel, and a bay leaf; when the isinglass is dissolved, strain the cream into a deep dish ; cut citron into thin slices, and put them in when the cream is nearly cold ; take care the citron does not fall to the bottom, though the cream should cover it. Serve it quite cold. 1 Citron (Mode).—Cut them long ways into quarters ; scrape out the seeds and in- side ; preserve and candy them. Care must be taken of all fruit kept in syrup ; if there is any froth on them, they must be boiled up, and if they are verv frothy and sour, the syrup must be first boiled, and then put in the fruit, and boil all together. Citron Paste.—Cut off the ends of the citrons, take out the middle, with all the seeds ; boil them in some water; and when quite tender, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water for a moment; then, having pressed them in a cloth to get the water out, pound and sift them ; to every quarter of a pound of this mar- malade put half a pound of clarified su- gar; simmer them together, stirring con- stantly until well mixed ; then put them into moulds and place them in a stove to dry. Citron (White) preserved.—Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in salt and water for four or five hours ; then, having washed them in cold water, boil them” when tender, drain, and lay them into as much clarified sugar as will cover them. 1 no next day drain off the syrup, and on it; when quite smooth and cold, pour it on the citrons ; let them stand twentv- t°ur hours; then boil the syrup again, and put in the citrons. The third day, boil both together, and put them into moulds to candy. Citron preserved Liquid.*—Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, so that the inside may take the sugar as well as the outside, and put them over the fire in some water; whenever they are near boiling, put cold water to them. As soon as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, and throw them into cold water. They must then be put on the fire again, in the same water, and boiled gently until tender; then take them out, and put them in cold water. After this, boil them seven or eight times in clarified sugar ; pour the whole into an earthen pan, and let it stand. The next day drain the fruit, and boil up the syrup twenty or thirty times ; add a little more sugar, and pour it over the citrons; do this for three successive days, increasing the degree to which you boil the su°-ar daily, so that at the last boiling the decree may be au per It. The fruit may then be put into pots. To preserve > them dry, they must be done exactly the same; only, instead of putting the fruit into pots, they should be dried on sieves in a stove. With the remaining sugar the citrons may be glazed. J Citron Pudding.—Mix together a pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs; add to tins four ounces of fine sugar, the same of citron, shred fine, two spoonsful of flour and a little nutmeg; place this mixture in a deep dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. Citron Puddings.—The yolks of three eggs beaten half a pint of cream, one */ .00nful of flour, two ounces of citron cut I n J su.?ar to the taste; put this into arge cups buttered; bake them in a to- lerably quick oven ; when done, turn them out of the cups, and serve. Citron Ratafia*—Pare seven or eight citrons very thin; cut the peel into small pieces, and put them into a jar, with three pints of brandy, and let them infuse for three weeks; then add to this a pound of b'0lIed. 111 hal.f » Pint of water, and well skimmed ; let it stand twelve or fif- teen days longer, when it may be bottled \}I7P 0/)--Put into a china bowl alternate layers of fine powder sm<ar and citron, pared, and cut in very thin slices, and let them stand till tho next day • then strain off the syrup, and clarify' i[ over a gentle fire. y Citron (Syrup of).*-Put tho rinds ofCLA CLA 178 three citrons into an earthen vessel, and strain on them the juice ; to this put a little water ; pour the mixture into a basin in which are four pounds of clarified sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place this basin in a large saucepnn, half filled with water, over the fire; stir the contents of the basin frequently ; and when the sugar is entirely dissolved, and the syrup quite clear, take the saucepan from the fire, and let it cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bottled. Citron Water.—Bruise eighteen ounces of good citron peel, nine ounces ol orange peel, a quarter of a pound of nutmegs; put them into three gallons of proof spiiits, and distil it; then add two pounds of double refined sugar, and bottle it. Another way.—Steep the rind, cut tlnn, of a dozen citrons, and half an ounce of bruised cardamom seed, iu good brandy (about a quart); stop it close, and let it stand some days ; then boil a pound and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, until it becomes a syrup; skim it well, and when cold, add it, with the juice of three lemons, to the infusion; iun it through a jelly-bag several times, and when perfectly clear, it may be bottled. CITRONNELLE Ratafia. — For two quarts of the best brandy, take, the zests or rinds of a dozen fins sound lemons, two drachms of bruised cinnamon, an ounce of coriander, and two pounds of sugar, dis- solved in a pint and a half of water ; infuse the whole for a month, then strain and bottle it. ...... CLARET (Artificial).—Distil m a cold still, one part of clary water, halt a part of redstreak cider; and put them, with six pounds of Malaga raisins, beaten in a mor- tar, and one pound of the iat mother of claret, in a close vessel, to ferment; when it has stood a fortuight, draw it off, and for every gallon put half a pint of mul- berry, blackberry, or gooseberry juice, and a pint of spirit of clary; to the whole put three spoonsful of flour, the whites of two e<ro-s, a drachm of isinglass, and two pounds of syrup of clary ; mix the whole well to- gether, and let it stand ; when quite clear, bottle it. „ C LARY Fritters.—Rent up three eggs with a spoonful and a half of cream, then add a little ratafia, three spoonstulI of flour, nutmeg and sugar to the taste. W ash and dry thoroughly some clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them. Gar- nish with Seville orange, and serve with melted butter. ... Clary Pancakes.—Make a batter with three eggs, three spoonsful of flour, a pint of milk, and a little salt. Pour this batter in a thin layer on boiling lard; and on that a few well washed and dried clary leaves, over which pour some more batter, and fry them. Clary (Spirit of). — lake a quart of the juice of clary, clary flowers, clove, gillyflowers, archangel flowers, flowers of lily of the valley, and coinfrey flowers, of each two pounds ; put these into two gal- lons of sack, and let them steep all night; then distil it in a glass still, with a very gentle fire; let the still be very well pasted, to keep in the spirits; put sifted sugarcandy into the bottle you draw it in, and let it drop through a bag of ambergris. Clary Water.—Put two quarts of fresh clary flowers, with a quart of burrage water, into an earthen jar, which place in a large vessel of water over the fire; when it has stood an hour take out the flowers, and put in the same quantity of fresh flow- ers ; in another hour take these out, and l!irow in fresh, and so on for seven hours; then add a gallon of fresh flowers, two quarts of sack, and sweeten it with two pounds of white sugarcandy pounded, dis- til it, and if necessary add more sugarcandy. Clary Wine.—Boil six gallons of water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice of six lemons, and four well beaten whites of eo-gs, for half an hour, skimming it care- fully ; then poor this whilst boiling hot on a peck of fresh clary flowers, with the peels of the lemons used above, and stir it well; add a very thin and dry toast, co- vered with yeast. When it has worked two or three days, add to it six ounces of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhenish wine. Squeeze the clary through a cloth, strain the liquor through a flannel bag in a cask, lay the bung on loosely, and if in the course of a few days it does not work, bung it quite close. The wine may be bottled in three months. Another way.—To fifteen gallons of water, put forty-five pounds of sugar, and having boiled and skimmed it, put a small quantity of it to a quarter of a pint of yeast, add a little more by degrees, and let it stand an hour. Then put both together, and pour it on twelve quarts of clary flow- ers, and let it work; as soon as it has done, bung it up for four months. Draw it off, and add a gallon of brandy; stop it close for six or seven weeks, and then bottle it. , CLOVE ( Essence e/").—Infuse a drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of the .coc 179 CLO strongest spirits of wine, apothecary’s mea- sure. Cloves (Oil of).*—This is made in the same manner as ciunamonum ; the quanti- ties are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts of brandy, and lour pounds of sugar dis- solved in four pints of water. Clove Pastils.-—Are made like those of cinnamon. The proportions are six cloves to half an ounce of gum dragon. Cloves (Dantzic liata/ia).*—Take three quarters of an ounce of cloves, and the same of cinnamon, broken in small pieces, and put them into half a pint of water; let them infuse for twenty-four hours. The next day clarify two pounds of double-re- fined sugar in a bottle of water; boil it to souffle, and then add to it four bottles of the best red Bordeaux ; strain into this the infusion of cloves and cinnamon, tie the spices in a little bag, and put them in also; cover the pan, and boil up the whole half a dozen times ; then take it from the fire, pour it into an earthen vessel, and cover it. When quite cold, take out the bag and squeeze it. Then take a bottle of rectified spirits of wine in one hand, and a spoon in the other; pour the former into the liquor, stirring constantly ; taste it fre- quently, and when sufficiently strong 0f the spirit, cease pouring. It may be bot- tled immediately, cork it tight, tie the corks down and seal them. The longer this liqueur is kept, the better it will be. Cloves (Syrup of).—Put a quarter of a pound of cloves and a quart of boiling | water into a stewpan, cover it close, and boil them gently for half an hour; drain the cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two pounds of sugar; beat up two eggs in a little cold water, add them to the above, and simmer the whole till it becomes a ' strong syrup. When cold, bottle it. Cloves (Tincture of).— Steep three ounces, apothecary’s weight, of bruised cloves in a quart of brandy for ten days, and then strain it through a flannel bag. Clove Water*—Bruise an ounce of cloves, and put them into a quart of brandy and distil it. Dissolve a pound and a half pf sugar in a pint of clear water, and add !f to the distilled mixture, stir them well together, filter and bottle it. Clove Water.—Mix a little cinnamon "nth the cloves, or the scent will bo too strong; allow half a score of cloves to a quart of water; put in a good piece of sugar; let them infuse some time over hot cut iers, or in a warm place; then strain it tor use. Clove Gillyflowers (Syrupof).—Gather the flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red ; to a quart of flowers put two quarts of spring w ater, let it stand for two days in a cold place, and after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it off, and putin half a pound of double refined sugar, and boil it up again foi thiee or four minutes ; pour it into a china basin, let it stand to cool, and when it is quite cold, skim it; put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. COCHINEAL (Prepared).*—Pound an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, and two drachms of alum; put these ingre- dients into a saucepan with half a pint of water; when it boils, take it from the fire and let it cool; pour it oft’ into a bottle as free from sediment as possible, and set it by for use. Cochineal (topreserve).—Boil an ounce of cochineal, beaten to a fine powder, in three quarters of a pint of water until’re- duced to half; then add to it rock alum and cream of tartar, of each half an ounce pounded fine. Boil all together a short time, and strain it. If to be kept any time, an ounce of loaf sugar should be boiled with it. COCKLES.*—This fish should he pro- cured a day or two before they are wanted, that they may be cleaned as much as pos- sible from the grits; they are cleansed as follows: Put the cockles into a tub with plenty of water, and stir them up two or three times a day with a birch broom • change the water each day; and when pro- per y cleaned, put them into a saucepan until hot water, and boil them. As soon as the shells open, they are done: they should be served very hot. Or put a very little water at the bottom of the pan, sprinkle them with salt cover with a cloth, and then the lul of the pan ; steam them a short time ; when they are open they are clone : serve very hot with a little of' their liquor. Cockle Catsup.—Wash the quantity of cockles you may require in their own liquor, and having pounded them, to every pint of the paste put an equal quantity of sherry ; boil them, and put to them* an ounce of salt, the same of Cayenne, and two drachms of pounded mace. Boil it a second time, skim, and rub it through a sieve When quite cold, bottle it. Keep it tightly corked. r Cockle Catsup.—Open the cockles, soald n 9coc 180 COC them in their own liquor ; when the liquor settles, add a little water, if you have not enough ; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlic— if for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon juice and peel, mace, nut- meg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. Cockles {Pickled,).—Boil two quarts of cockles in their own liquor for half an hour, skimming them well ; then take out the cockles, strain the liquor through a cloth ; take a pint of it, and add to it three quar- ters of an ounce of mace and half an ounce of cloves; boil these together once, and then put it to the cockles and remaining liquor, and stir it well; add to this a spoonful of salt, three quarters of a pint of white wine vinegar, and a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, and let it stand. When cold, put the cockles in small barrels or jars, as close as they will lay ; pour in on them as much liquor as you possibly can, and as it soaks in put in more. Cover them veiy close. They may he soon eaten. . Cockle Sauce.—Scald the cocklesm their own liquor, and when the liquor settles, add a little water if necessary ; strain and season with all sorts of spices ; and for brown sauce putin a little port wine, garlic, and an anchovy ; but if the sauce is to be white, then, instead of these latter ingre- dients, use sherry, lemon juice, mace, nutmeg, white pepper, and lemon peel. Cockle sauce is also made m the same way as oyster sauce. ... * COCKS’ Cnmbs and Kidneys m Aspic. — Place an aspic mould in a vessel lull of pounded ice ; pour into this mould some aspic (about an inch thick), and ornament it according to your fancy, with truffles, the whites of hard eggs, gherkins, crayfish tails and cocks’ kidneys ; when that is done’, pour in a little more aspic, taking care not to derange the ornaments ; as soon as it is set, fill up your mould with the cocks’ combs and kidneys leaving a small space at the top, which fill up w-itli the aspic. When wanted for table, dip the mould into warm water an instant, and then turn it out; through a reed, blow away whatever pieces of the jelly maj re- main about the dish, dry it, and serve with the sauce of a chicken Jncassta reduced to a ;ellv and thickened with the yolks ot four JeV; strain it, and add a dozen champig- nons trimmed and done up in butter and lemon juice. Small moulds may be used instead of this large one. Cocks’ Comlts (Farced).—Make a force- meat as follows : Chop up some beef mar- row, bacon, and the white parts of a fowl, and pound them in a mortar with salt, i pepper, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg; j well beaten. Then, having parboiled the-! jf cocks’ combs, open them at the largest end, , t and fill them with the forcemeat. Stewr i them gently for half an hour in rich gravy, j to which add the yolk of an egg well; I beaten in gravy, some salt, and fresh or- pickled mushrooms, or both, if you thinkcl proper. Cocks’ Combs (to force).—Parboil some i cocks’ combs, then open them with the-' point of a small knife at the great end; take the white of a fowl, as much bacon i and beef marrow, cut these small, and beat: them fine in a marble mortar : season them 1 with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and l mix it with an egg ; fill the cocks’ combs and stew them in a little strong gravy gently for half an hour ; then slice in some ■ fresh mushrooms and a few pickled ones ; then beat up the yolk of an egg in a little gravy, stirring it; season with salt. W hen ■ they are done enough, dish them in little 1 dishes or plates. Cocks’ Combs (Fricassee of).—Put a slice of ham into a stewpan, with mushrooms, sweet herbs, cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and butter ; when they have soaked together a short time, add a little flour and some broth, and then strain it. In the mean : time, scald the cocks’ combs, andboilthem in broth, with a few slices of lemon ; put them into the above sauce, and thicken it with cream and yolks of eggs ; flavour it with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and serve it with any sauce you please. Gar- nish your dish with forcemeat balls, hard eggs, or small onions. Cocks’ Combs (Pickled).—Scald the cocks’ combs, take oft the skins, and stew them for half an hour in white-wine vine- gar, with cloves, mace, allspice, whole pepper, bav leaves and bay salt; then put them in a jar, and when cold cover them with mutton suet, and tie them tight over. When they are wanted take them out of the pickle, and lay them in warm water for mi hour. Cocks’ Combs (to preserve);—Let them be well cleaned, then put them into a pot with some melted bacon, and boil them a little ; about half an hour after, add a little bay salt, some pepper, a little vinegar, a lemon sliced, and an onion stuck with cloves. When the bacon begins tp stick to the pot, take them up, put them into theCOD 181 COD pan you would keep in, lay a clean linen about two or three pounds weight, will be cloth over them, and pour clarified melted sufficiently boiled in a quarter of an hour butter over them, to keep them close from or twenty minutes after the water boils, the air. Prepare a cod for dressing in the following Cocks' Combs and Kidneys au blanc (Ra- . gout of).*—Having blanched the cocks’ combs and kidneys, put them into a sauce- pan with a little consomme, sauce tournee, mushrooms, previously dressed veal sweet- ! breads, fowls’ livers, blanched and sliced, i truffles also cut in slices, artichoke bottoms, and quenelles of fowl. Thicken the whole with yolks of eggs. Serve with a sippet and a little lemon or verjuice. Cocks’ Combs au Veloute*—Parboil your i cocks’ combs in a blanc, and having drained i them, put them into a stewpan with veloute or sauce tournee; let them boil gently for a |i quarter of an hour, thicken the sauce, and finish with a little butter and lemon juice. Cocks’ Combs and Kidneys au Veloute.*— Boil some cocks’ combs and kidneys in a r blanc, and then drain them; put some ve- i loute reduced with a little fowl jelly into a stewpan, throw in the cocks’ combs and kidneys, simmer them for about seven or . eight minutes, and finish it with a sippet and lemon juice, and serve it. COCOA Nut Sweetmeat.*—Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, and throw it into cold water; then grate it, and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to each pound of the cocoa nut) until quite thick; stir it frequently to prevent its burning-. Then pour it on a well buttered dish or : marble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you think proper. Another way*—Proceed as above, but do not boil the sugar so thick by a great deal; then stir into it whilst hot the yolks of six eggs; this must be served in jelly- glasses. COCOTTES.*—Take a numberof small cups, and put in each a small piece of butter, break a new laid egg into every cup ; sea- son them with pepper and salt; set them over hot ashes, and pass a salamander over the top. I COD.—A codfish should be firm aud white, the gills red, and the eye lively ; a fine fish is very thick about the neck ; if the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. II hose which come from the Dogger Bank are reckoned the best. Cod is in its prime during the months of October and Novem- ber, it the weather be cold ; from the latter end of March to May, cod is also very fine, the length of time it requires for boilino- depends on the size of the fish, which varies •rom one pound to twenty; a small fish, manner: Empty and wash it thoroughly, scrape off all the scales, cut open the belly, and wash and dry it well, rub a little salt iuside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. The simple way of dressing it is as follows: Tie up the head, and put it into a fish-kettle, with plenty of water and salt in it; boil it gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Lay a napkin underthe fish, and garnish with slices of lemon, horse- radish, &c. Cod (Baked).*—Soak a fine piece of fresh cod in melted butter, with parsley and sweet herbs shred very fine; let it stand over the fire for some time, and then bake it. Let it be of a good colour. Another way*—Choose a fine large cod, clean it well, and open the under part to the bone, and put in a stuffing made with beef suet, parsley, sweet herbs shred fine, an egg, and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, and grated lemon peel ; put this inside the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered paper, and bake it; baste it well with melted butter. Cod au Court Bouillon*—Boil the cod gently in a fish kettle, with water, salt, vinegar, a glass of wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it cold on a napkin. Cod en Dauphin*—Your cod being properly prepared, marinate it for a couple of hours in sweet oil, with salt, pepper, scallions, bay leaf, parsley, and garlic. Then pass an iron skewer through the eyes, the middle of the body, and bring it out at the tail, making it in the form of a dolphin ; place it in a baking-pan, baste it with the marinade, and bake it. When sufficiently done, take out the skewer, put it on a dish, and pour over it the following ragout: Boil up (separately) three carps’ roes, and some asparagus heads, and then put them into a stewpan with a bit of but- ter, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions; do them over the fire, and add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and the same of soup maigre. When the ragout is suffi- ciently done, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and some cream. Cod with Herbs*—Prepare a cod, and lay it in salt and water, when it has been m an hour, place it in a table-dish, with sweet herbs ready coolcod, and butter; season with salt, popper, nutmeg, and spices in powder; moisten it with a bottle of white wine, baste it frequently withmelted butter, and bake it; when done, squeeze the juice of two lemons over it. Con IJie.—Lay n tine piece of fresh cod in salt for several hours, then wash it well, season it with, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace; place it in a dish, with a little but- ter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, and hake it; when done, pour iD a sauce, made as follows: A spoonful of stock, a quarter of a pint of cream, flour and butter, grate in a little nutmeg and lemon peel, and a few oysters; boil the whole once. Cod in Salt Water.*—The cod being properly cleansed and prepared, rub it all over with lemon juice, and put it into the fish kettle with salt and water, two or three hay leaves, an equal number of cloves of garlic, some slices of onion, parsley, and a glass of verjuice ; let it stand over the fire (taking care that it does not boil) until sufficiently done ; then drain and serve it on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Serve with it any fish sauce you think proper. Cod Sauce.—Take a hunch of parsley, cliibbol, two sbalots, two cloves, a hay leaf, some mushrooms, and a bit of butter; soak all together on the fire, adding a small spoonful of flour and milk or cream suffi- cient to boil to the consistence of a sauce; and add to it some chopped parsley, first scalded. Cod (Stuffed.).* — Choose a fine large cod, and having cleansed and washed it, lay it an hour in salt and water; drain it, and fill the body with a farce, made of pounded whitings and anchovies; place it on a tahle-disli, pour over it a bottle of white wine, butter, and chopped parsley; then hake it, and when done, drain off the fat, without removing from the dish. Cover it with sauce a la Menehmilt, strew bread crumbs, and a little Parmesan cheese grated over the fish, and with a feather do it over with melted butter: colour it in the oven, drain it again, clean the dish, and serve with a white sauce Italienne. Cod (Scallops of) en bonne Morue.— Work three spoonsful of Mchamelle over the fire with a good hit of butter, seasoned with pepper and snlt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in tho sauce, and then let them remain in the sauce till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of a dish, put the flakes or scallops of cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it with the salamander. Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Put the flakes of cod into a maitre d'hdtel, season them well, and add the juice of a lemon. Serve them very hot. Cod (Scallops of) in a Vol au Vent.— Prepare the sauce and fish as for Bonne Morue, but not quite so thick. Place a Vol au Vent in the table-dish, and put the cod into it; do not, however, put it in until just as it ought to go to table. Cream sauce may he used en maigre. Cod (Salt).*—The flesh of good salt cod is very white, and tho flakes large; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before • it is dressed it should be soaked in milk : and water, or water alone, for several 1 hours ; if very dry and salt, three days i i ■ will not he too long. When you think the salt sufficiently soaked out, put the fish . • into a fish kettle with plenty of cold water, - set it on the fire; when nearly boiling, skim it, and let it simmer gently till done. Serve with it egg sauce, and garnish your : 1 dish with parsnips. To make the follow- ' ing dishes, the fish should he previously parboiled. Cod (Salt) a VAnglaise*—Cut the fish -| in pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with melted butter, and a glass of broth maigre, ,1 cover it close, and let it stew. Melt some j butter in an equal quantity of cream, add II nutmeg grated, and when w’ell mixed to- - gether, put it into your dish with the cod - over it. 4. J Cod (Salt) au Beurre.*—Roll a piece of 5 butter in a little flour and powder sugar, q and brown it; do some sliced onions in this ; when they are a proper colour, add a spoonful of vinegar to them ; boil up the whole once, and pour it on some flakes of ; boiled salt cod. Garnish with fried par- sley. Con (Salt) in Black Buffer.*—Boil and drain the fish, put it on the dish for table, with half a glass of vinegar, the same of broth, and some coarse pepper, place your dish over the fire, and let it boil for seven or eight minutes, and serve it with black butter poured over it. Con (Salt) a la Bonne l'emmc—Is pre- pared in tlie same way as « la mntfre * d.'hotel, with the addition of potatoes; boil and let them stand till cold; then cut them into slices, the size and thickness of a ball- crown ; do them in the sauce with tho fish. Cod (Salt) d la Bordelaise.*—Take an earthen dish that will bear the fire,and put into it some olive oil, butter, a couple o ■ anchovies, pnrsley, scallions, sbalots, an garlic, all chopped small, and two or tare slices of lemon; put it on the fire, a®183 COD COD when of a proper consistence, put in the fish; let it soak and boil slowly for half an hour. Then grate bread over it, brown it with the salamander, and serve it hot. Cod (Salt) a La Bourguignotte* Cut i half a dozen large onions into rings, and I colour them in some butter; then take j some sauce tournee, and put it to the onions, j with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Dress your cod as for maitre d’hotel, drain and dish it. Serve with the above sauce. . Cod (Salt) with Capers and Anchovies.*— Boil the cod as usual, and when done, drain and dish it; pour over it some caper and anchovy sauce. Cod (Salt) a la Creme.*—-Soak and boil the fish as a la maitre d'hotel; melt some butter in a stewpan, with some flour, pep- per, nutmeg, and garlic; thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, add a glass of cream and some chopped parsley. Put the flakes of cod into this sauce; let them boil gently a short time, and serve it quite hot. Or, when you have put the cod into the sauce, bread and bake it; take off all the fat before you serve, and add mush- rooms, artichoke bottoms, and asparagus heads. Cod (Salt) Croquettes of.*— Cut some ready dressed salt cod into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and half a glass of cream; put it on the fire, let it boil up once, and stir it, that all may be well mixed, and then let it stand ; when cold divide it into fifteen or twenty heaps; shape and bread them; break four or five eggs, season and beat them up well, dip the croquettes into it, bread them a second time, and just be- fore they are wanted, fry them in very hot lard. Let them be of a nice colour, lay them on a cloth a minute, and then place them in a pyramidal form on a bed of fried parsley. Cod (Suit) fried.*—Boil and pull a cod into flakes, and put it into some hechamelle; let it cool in this sauce. Place the flakes in little heaps, bread them, dip each heap into some well beaten eggs, bread them a second time, fry them of a nice colour, and serve with orange juice and fried parsley. Cod (Salt) fritters.*—-Dip some flakes of previously boiled cod into a batter made of wine, sweet oil, and a very little salt; fry, and garnish with fried parsley. Cod (Salt) a la Languetlooienne.*—Make a sauce with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and sweet herbs minced, half a glas3 of sweet oil, and some bread crumbled; when sufficiently thick and well flavoured, put in the tail of a salt cod, and stew it gently for half an hour; serve it hot, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over. Cod (Salt) a la Lyonaise.—Serve with a Lyonaise sauce, either white or brown. Cod (Salt) a la Maitre d'Hotel*—Soak your fish (if very salt) for a whole day in milk and water, afterwards soak it in hot water, take off the scales, and put the fish into cold water on the fire; when it has boiled up a few times, skim, and cover it close for a minute; then drain and put it into a stewpan with butter, parsley, scal- lions cut small, salt, coarse pepper, and grated nutmeg. When the butter-is melted and well soaked into the fish, serve it with Sauce a la maitre d’hotel, and lemon juice. Cod (Salt) marinated and fried*—Hav- ing boiled and flaked it, marinate it for two or three hours in a little water, with vinegar, pepper, parsley, scallions, garlic, sliced onions, bits of carrots, and cloves. Drain it well, and dry it, flour and fry it. Serve with fried parsley; or you may dip the flakes into batter and fry them. Cud (Salt) Pie.*—Put some flakes of boiled cod (cold) into a puff paste, with butter, pepper, and sweet herbs; when baked, take out the herbs, and put into the pie some sauce a la creme. Cod (Salt) a la Provenpale.*—Prepare and boil the cod as a la maitre d’hotel; put into a stewpan fresh butter, pepper, nut- meg grated, shred parsley and scallions, a little sweet oil, and a clove of garlic; mix this together well, and then put in your fish, make it quite hot, stirring con- stantly. Serve with the sauce over it and a little lemon juice. Second way.*—When the fish is boiled, take off the skin, bone, crush it with a spoon, and then pound it. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, and pour in, a little at a time, half a pound of sweet oil, shake it about, and to prevent its turning, put in frequently some garlic water. When the fish has thoroughly imbibed the oil, squeeze on it some lemon juice, and serve it. Garnish with fried bread. Third way *—Spread some butter on a dish, and lay on it parsley, shalots, scal- lions, garlic, pepper, nutmeg, and a spoon- ful of oil. Place the cod (boiled and in flakes) on this seasoning, and cover it with the same ; moisten it with sweet oil; strew bread crumbs, drop a little more oil over, and colour it in the oven, or with a sala- mander. Lemon juice may bo adde JiCOD COD 184 Cod (Salt) en Stinquerqice.*—Take a dish that will bear the lire, and put into it a bit of butter, with some parsley, scal- lions, garlic, and anchovies, all minced, pepper, and a few whole capers ; on this put a layer of salt cod, then a layer of the seasoning, and so on, alternately, until the dish is quite full; cover the whole with bread crumbs, place the dish on a stove, let it boil a little while. Brown it with the salamander. Cod (Salt) au Verd-prc.*—Boil the fish in butter and sweet herbs ; dish it, and cover it with parsley chopped very small; squeeze lemon juice over, and serve it hot with any other seasoning. Cod Sounds.—This is the white skin of the belly, and is reckoned a great delicacy, and may be either boiled, broiled, or fried. Previous to dressing either way, they should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a little. Cod Sounds grillee.—Scald them in hot water, and rub them well with salt, if fresh ; blanch them, that is, take off the blacked dirty skin, then set them on in cold water, and let them simmer till they begin to be tender; take them out, flour, and broil them on the gridiron. In the mean time, take a little good gravy, a little mus- tard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give it a boil, season it with pepper and salt. Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the sauce over them. Cod Sounds en Poule.—Make a force- meat with some chopped oysters and an- chovies, bread crumbs, a little butter; bind it with two eggs, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Wash and boil in milk and water, three or four sounds, and when cold, put a layer of the force- meat on each, and roll them up in the form of chickens, and skewer them. Lard them, sprinkle flour over, and cook them gently in a Dutch oven. Serye with oyster sauce. Cod (Tails of Salt) d I’Anglaise.—Make a sauce with the pulp of two lemons, some auehovies cut into dice, shred parsley and scallions, a little pepper, garlic, a small piece of butter, and about the same quan- tity of oil; heat it up gently, stirring it constantly. Pour half this snuco on a dish, place the salt cod (ready boiled) in it, garnish it with fried crusts, pour the remainder of the sauce over ; cover it with raspings, and cook it in a slow oven for a quarter of an hour. Clean the edges of the dish, and serve. C#d (Tail of Salt) forced.—Rub two handsful of bread crumbs, mixed with a pint of milk, through a cullender; boil it until the bread is very thick, and then set it to cool; after this, pmt to it a piece of butter the size of an egg, parsley, chopped scallions, salt, pepper, and the yolks of six eggs. Boil and drain the tail of a salted cod, take out all the meat, but leave in the bone ; cut the meat to pieces ; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, some mushrooms cut in bits, parsley, scallions, shalots, and garlic, all minced ; do it up over the fire, then add a spoonful of flour, a little milk, and coarse pepper. Boil this until very thick, when the fish should be put in with the yolks of three eggs ; keep it on the fire a little while, but do not let it boil, and then set it to cool. Put the tail bone on the table-dish, wrap the end in a buttered paper, surround the bone with part of the firstmentioned mixture, then put in the ragout, cover it with the remainder of the farce, and form the whole into the shape of the cod’s tail, brush it over with egg, cover it with bread crumbs, and bake it. When done, clean the edges- of the dish, and put into it some sauce- made with a glass of stock, a bit of butter worked with flour, a spoonful of Verjuice, salt, and pepper; thicken it over the fire. CODLI^N GSgrillees.—Take three fresh- codlings, egg them over, shake them in flour, and broil them over a moderate fire, till well done and of a good colour on both sides, or you may toss them in egg and crumbs of bread, as directed for turbot. Serve them with sauce d I'Espaguole. Codlings with street Herbs.—Cut a cod- ling into six or eight pieces, bone it as clean as possible, and marinate it in melted butter, lemon juice, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped; then lay it on the table- dish with all the marinade, both under and over it; cover it with bread crumbs, and add small bits of butter, or a few drops melted, close to each other; bake it in the oven ; it will require but a short time baking. Codlings pickled like Mangoes.—Make a brine of water and salt, strong enough to bear an egg ; take codlings full grown, but not ripe; let them lie in the brine for ten days, shifting the pickle once in two days ; then dry them, and scoop out the cores, take out the stalks so that you may put them in again in the room of the core ; fill them with ginger, sliced very thin, a clove of garlic, and whole mustard seeds. Put in the piece of apple that belongs to the stalk, and tie it up tight; put to them asCOF COF 185 much white-wine vinegar with cloves of o-arlic, whole mustard seed, and sliced gin- ger as will cover them: pour this pickle upon them boiling hot ever}' other day for a fortnight or three weeks, and keep them in stone jars. This will imitate the real mango better than cucumber. Codling Tart.—Scald some codlings, let them stand an hour in the same water covered, which will make them look green, then put them into your tart, either whole or quartered, put in sugar, and a little musk, close them up, and let it bake; boil a quart of cream with the yolks of four or five eggs, sugar, and a little musk; when your tart is half baked, cut it open, and pour your cream, &c. on the codlings ; set it in the oven again for half an hour, then scrape some sugar over it, and serve it up hot. COFFEE.*—The coffee-pot should be three parts full of boiling water; the coffee is to be added a spoonful at a time, and well stirred between each ; then boil gen- tly, still stirring to prevent the mixture from boiling over as the coffee swells, and to force it into combination with the water; this will be effected in a few minutes, after which, the most gentle boiling must be kept up during an hour. The coffee must then be removed from the fire to settle ; one or two spoonsful of cold water thrown in assists the clarification, and precipitates the grounds. In about an hour, or as soon as the liquor has become clear, it is to be poured into another vessel, taking care not to disturb the sediment. Coffee made in this manner will be of the finest flavour, and may be kept three days in summer, and four or five in win- ter ; when ordered for use, it only requires heating in the coffee-pot, and may be served up at two minutes’ notice. Coffee (French Method of preparing').* —1st. Let your coffee be dry, not in the least mouldy or damaged. 2d. Divide the quantity that is to be roasted into two parts. 3d. Roast the first part in a coffee-roaster, the handle of Which must be kept constantly turning until the coffee becomes the colour of dried almonds or bread raspings, and has lost one eighth of its weight. 4th. Roast the second part until it as- | sumes the fine brown colour of chestnuts, 1 and has lost one fifth of its weight. 5th. Mix the two parts together, and grind them in a coffee-mill. 6th. Do not roast or make your coffee until the day it is wanted. 7th. To two ounces of ground coffee, put four cups of cold water. Draw oft this infusion, and put it aside. 8th. Put to the coffee which remains in the biggin, two cups of boiling water, then drain it off and add this infusion to that which has been put aside. By this me- thod you obtain two cups more. When your coffee is wanted, heat it quickly in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let it boil, that the perfume may not be lost by undergoing any evaporation. Then pour it into cups, which each person may sweeten according his taste. Particular care should be taken not to make coffee in a tin vessel; it should be made either in a China vessel, or one of delft ware, or in one of silver. Fora long time, the tin biggins, invented by Monsieur de Belloy, were made use of; but some person has since improved upon his plan, by making them in silver or por- celain, which are found to be much better. Coffee (fo make) a la Chausse.*-—Put some ground coffee into a bag ; heat the marc or the leva which has been made the day before; and whilst it is boiling, put in die bag ; then draw it off ; pour the in- fusion several times backwards and for- wards ; then heat it again ready for use. The marc or grouts which remains in the bag may be boiled up again, and may be made use of the next day. Coffee (to make) with cold Water*— Upon two ounces of coffee pour seven cups of cold water; then boil it until the coffee falls to the bottom ; when the froth has disappeared, and it is clear at the top like boiling water, it must be taken oft' the fire and allowed to stand ; but as it often requires clearing, a little cold water should be poured into it the instant it is taken off the fire from boiling. A quicker method of clearing it is by putting into it a small piece of isinglass. When it has stood a sufficient time to allow it to settle, pour oft" the infusion gently into another coffee-pot; it is then ready for use. Some clear the coffee with an egg, some with well-washed and dried sole skin, others with isinglass. Coffee (in make) with hot Water*— Instead of pouring cold water upon the coffee, boiling water must be poured upon it, tailing care not to let the froth run over, which is to be prevented by pouring the water on the coffee by degrees. It is then made the same as the preceding receipt. Coffee (to give the flavour of Vanilla).*COF 186 COF —Take n liandful of oats, very clean, and leathern boil ior five or six minutes in soft water; throw this away; then fill it up with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour; tiien pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make your coffee, which will acquire by this means the flavour of vanilla, and is most excellent. Coffee (Blancmange of').—Roast two ounces of the best coffee ; grind, and pour on it a glass of boiling water; let it stand, covered close; and when the coffee is precipitated, pour oft'the infusion, and mix it with six ounces of sugar and half an ounce of clarified isinglass. Pound and extract your milk of almonds ns directed in Blancmange of Ceilrats. Divide'the liquid, and filf’your mould as herein explained.] Coffee Bonbons.-—Take about a pint of coffee made with water ; put in it a pound of loaf sugar; set it on the fire, and boil it to a high degree ; then add a full pint of double cream, and let it boil again, keeping continually stirring it till it comes to caramel height; to know when it is come to that point, you must have a basin of water by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it quickly in your sugar, then in the water again, to remove the sugar, which will have stuck to it; take a bit of it in your teeth ; if it is hard in its crackling, take it off, it is sufficiently done; pour it upon a tin plate, which must be rubbed before with a little butter, or it will stick to the plate; then spread it with a rollingpin; (observe the rollingpin must likewise be rubbed with butter, for fear it should stick) ; when it is warm, you may cut it into little squares, lozenges, or any other shaped pastils, and draw a few strokes over them with a knife. Coffee Conserves.* — Clarify and boil to the first degree a pound of sugar; take the sugar off the fire, and put into it one cup of coffee ; stir it about until it comes to the sixth degree, that the conserve may take the sugar and dry. Coffee Cream.—Mix three cups of good coffee with one pint of cream, and sugar according to taste; boil them together, and reduce them about one third ; observe that the coffee must bo done as if it was for drinking alone, and settled very clear, before you mix it with the cream. Finish as usual. Coffee Cream.—Boil a pint of milk, and the same of thick cream together; have then a quarter of a pound of raw coffee; roast it in a fryingpan, and when done of a good colour, while hot, put it into your boiled cream and milk ; cover it close, and let it stand for an hour, then put it in the tammy; drain the liquor from, and squeeze it well to get the fla- vour of the coffee ; mix in some clarified sugar, enough to sweeten it, boiled smooth ; beat up the yolks of three eggs, which stir in with your cream ; rub and squeeze it through the tammy, at the same time add isinglass enough to set it, and pour it in a mould, with ice round it as usual. Coffee Cream.—Roast one ounce of coffee ; put it hot into a pint and a half of boiling cream ; boil these together a little, take it off, putin two dried gizzards ; cover this close, let it stand one hour ; sweeten with double-refined sugar; pass it two or three times through a sieve with a wooden spoon; put it into a dish with a tin on the top ; set the dish on a gentle stove ; put fire on the top upon the tin: when it has taken set it by. Serve it cold. Coffee Cream Patissicre* — Infuse a quarter of a pound of fresh roasted coffee in three glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close, and when nearly cold, pass it through a napkin ; pour the infusion bv degrees into a stewpan, in wbich are the volks of six. eggs, two spoonsful of flour, and a grain of salt. Stir and boil the cream as directed (see Cream Putissiere); add to the butter, as therein mentioned, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and the sama of crushed sweet macaroons. Coffee au Creme*—Put two spoonsful of coffee, with some sugar, into three pints of cold cream ; boil it for half an hour, let it stand ; beat up the yolks of eight eggs, strain them through a sieve, then mix the whole together. Put it in a bain-marie, to simmer over a slow fire, keeping it con- stantly stirring. Coffee (White) Cream*—Boil for a quarter of an hour a litre of good milk with two ounces of roasted coffee, the same quantity of raw coffee bruised, and a small piece of lemon peel; after having strained the whole through a sieve, add to it half a pound of powdered sugar, the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, beaten together, with a spoonful of cream. Then place the cream upon a dish, over a stewpan full of boiling water; when it is set, ice it over with sugar and pass a sala- mander over it; leave it to cool before it is served. Coffee (White) Cream*—Infuse twoCIIA COF 107 ounces of rousted coffee in a gill of boiling qreaiu for half an hour; then strain the oream through a napkin ; sweeten and add three yolks and two whole eggs ; mix them well, and pass it through a bolting several times. Heat eight small custard moulds ; by dipping them in warm water; having in the mean time boiled some sugar to grand casse ; pour it into the moulds ; then drain and fill them with the preparation, taking care to stir it well. Let them stand over a small fire, but with plenty of fire at the top ; when done, turn them on a dish ; heat about a cupful of coffee a I’eau, and pour it over each cream, and serve them. Coffee Cream.-—Boil a calFs foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly ; clear off the sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil. up, andjpour into the dish. It should jelljr, but not stiff. Observe that your coffee be fresh. Coffee Cream au Bain-marie.*—Infuse a quarter fof a pound of roasted coffee in six glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close till lukewarm, then strain, and mix it a little at a time, with ten yolks, one whole egg, a grain of salt, and ten ounces of sugar. When thoroughly incorporated, strain it again, and finish as usual. See Cream an Bain-marie. Coffee Cream a la Francaise.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee, and infuse it in five glasses of boiling milk; cover it close, and let it stand till lukewarm ; then strain, and mix it with ten ounces of powder sugar, a grain of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs. Then proceed as directed in Cocoa Cream a la Franfaise. Coffee, Creme of ( Liqueur).*—Roast and grind half a pound of the best coffee, and infuse it for a week in three quarts of brandy ; at the end of that time distil it in the bain-marie, but be careful not to have too much heat, as in thnt case the coffee is apt to rise, and by that means spoil the liqueur. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in the same quantity of water ; mix it with the liqueur, and then strain it. Coffee (Small Custards of).*—Measure fifteen of your moulds full of cream, and boil it; and having, in the mean time, lightly roasted three ounces of coffee, throw it into the boiling cream ; cover it close, and let it infuse for a quarter of an hour; then pass it through a napkin. and proceed as directed. See Small Custards. Coffee Eggs.—Make some good strong coffee ; let it rest to clear as usual, and sweeten it with sugar according to your discretion; beat u~p six yolks of eggs, with about four cups of coffee, and sift it; pour this into little moulds in the form of eggs, or of any other, (do not fill them quite), and bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or with a braising-pan; cover between two fires. They are made after this man- ner, in the shapes of any fruits or birds, if jmu have proper moulds, either of copper or china, &c. Coffee Fanclionnettes.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee, and infuse it for a quarter of an hour in three glasses of milk; cover it quite close ; pass it through a napkin, and then add it to the other ingre- dients, and proceed as directed. See Fanchonettes. To flavour these with chocolate, grate a quarter of a pound, and mix with the other ingredients, instead of the coffee ; in this latter, two ounces of sugar must be omitted. Coffee au Fromage.—The mode of in- fusing coffee for creams is by throwing your coffee into the whole of your cream ; but in making co fee au fromage, only use one half of the cream for the infusion, which, when cold, mix with the other half. Beat the whole on ice, add isin- glass, and then fill the mould, &c. &c. Coffee (FromageBavarois of).*-—Having roasted a quarter of a pound of coffee, put it into two glasses of boiling milk, cover the infusion, and when about lukewarm, pass it through a napkin ; then mix with it. half a pound of powder sugar, and six drachms of isinglass, and when they are perfectly incorporated, strain it again. Put your preparation into the vessel with ice, and as soon as it begins to take, mix with it a plate of whipped cream, and finish in the same manner as all other Fro- mage Bavarois. Coffee frothed or whipped*—Take a quarter of a pound of ground coffee, make a very strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining-bag ; having dis- solved three quarters of a poundof powder sugnr in a pint of double cream, and the yolks of six eggs, put in the coffee, of which there should be no more than three cups, nnd whip it ns directed for Frothed. Cream. Coffee Ice Cream.—Make three dishes of strong coffee; pour it off very clear, toCOF COF 188 mix with three half pints of cream, or the same proportion for more or less, and three quarters of a pound of sugar; boil a moment together, and when cold, ice it. Coffee Ice a V Italienne*—Infuse a quarter ot a pound of roasted coffee in a pint of double cream, boiling hot, for two hours, closely covered; half whip the whites of nine eggs, and having strained the cream from the coffee, mix it with them, add half a pound of powder sugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then ice it in the usual way. Coffee au Jaime d'CEuf .*—Put into a basin the yolk of an egg, and some sugar ; then gently pour upon them one cup of coffee, carefully beat them together that they may be well mixed; add to them one cup of water; then put the whole into a bain-marie to warm, keeping it constantly stirring with a spoon to prevent its curd- ling; when it is warm, serve it out in cups. You may add to it if you please a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water. Coffee Jelly*—Roast a quarter of a pound of the best coffee, and having made an infusion of it, strain, and add to it two glasses of white brandy, and some lemon juice, and finish the jelly in the usual way. See Currant Jellyframboiste. Coffee Jelly.*-—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee over a moderate fire to a fine yellow; take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and throw the rest into three glasses of nearly boiling water; cover it close, and let it cool. In the mean time, boil half a glass of water, and pour it over the small portion of coffee (which should be ground), adding a little isinglass; when perfectly clear, pour it to the other infusion, having previously strained it through a silk sieve ; filter the whole, and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, and half a glass of kirschwasser. Finish with ice, as usual. Coffeeillif/c.—Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour ; then put into it a shav- ing or two of isinglass, and clear it; lot it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. Coffee Parfait Amour.—For four bottles of brandy, take one pound of coffee in powder, a little salt, two cloves, a little cinnamon ; then mix all together for twelve hours before you distil it; two pounds of sugar, two bottles and half a pint of wa- ter, clarified with whites of eggs, filtered thrpugh the paper. Coffee Paste.—To half an ounce of gum' dragon, dissolved in a glass of water, put an ounce of coffee powder; sift it in a fine lawn sieve, mix it in a mortar, with as much sugar powder as is necessary to give it a proper consistence, and finish as all other pastes. Coffee Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, have about the quan- tity of two cups of coffee made with wa- ter, which put to your sugar, and mix well till you see it makes a royal paste, a little tliickish, that you may take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a far- thing ; place it in the stove with a slow fire till it is quite dry, and take it off from the paper. You make them another way, viz., with ground coffee, which you sift very fine through a sieve, then adding a little wa- ter, to bring it to the proper degree of liquidity, the same as the above. Coffee (to roast j*—Coffee should never be roasted but at the precise time of its being used, and then it should be watched with the greatest care, and made of a gold colour rather than a brown one ; above all, take care not to burn it, for a very few grains burnt will be sufficient to commu- nicate a bitter and rancid taste to several pounds of coffee. It is the best wav to roast it in a roaster (over a charcoal fire), which turns with the hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which often is the case when on a spit before the fire. Coffee Sugar*—Put a cup of strong coffee into a preserving-pan, and add to it a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to make it thick, put it on a moderate fire, stirring it constantly ; the moment it be- gins to bubble, take it off, and add two spoonsful of powder sugar ; stir it with a silver spoon, scraping the sugar from the sides of the pan. As it cools itwill thicken and become darker ; dry it in a stove, and then pass it through a fine sieve. Coffee Syrup.*—Take two pounds of ground coffee, infuse one of the pounds of coffee in two pints of water; then let it stand to settle ; when clear, pour it off; then with this liquor infuse the other pound of coffee ; boil half a pound of sugar to caramel height, colour it a deep red ; then put it into the coflee to dissolve; then pour it into a pipkin with another half pound of sugar; carefully close the lid of the pipkin, and let it simmer for eight or nine hours; then strain it, and189 COF COL when cold, put it into bottles, cork them hermetically, ,and keep them in a cool place. When it is wanted for use, put some of the syrup into a cup, adding warm water according to the strength you wish to drink your coflee. The syrup of coffee is most useful in travelling, when there is not time or con- venience for making coffee in the usual manner. Coffee Tart.—Mix a little flour and cream, with one or two cups of good clear coffee, a bit of sugar, and three eggs ; boil it about half an hour, stirring continually for fear it should catch at bottom; put it into the paste, and whites of eggs beat up and frothed upon it; without top crust. Coffee Wafers.—To a common table- | spoonful of ground coffee, put a quarter of a pound of sugar powder, and a quarter of a pound of fine flour ; mix them well toge- ther, with as much good cream as will make the paste or batter pour out pretty thick from the spoon ; the paste being prepared, warm the wafer-iron on both sides, and rub it over with some butter, tied in a linen bag, or a bit of virgin wax; pour a spoon- ful of the batter, and bake over a smart fire, turning the iron once or twice, until the wafer is done on both sides of a fine brown colour; if you would have them twisted, put them upon a mould, ready at hand for that purpose; put it up directly, as you take it out, and press it to the shape of whatever form you please, and so continue; always keep them in a warm place. Coffee (Whipped).—Upon three half pints of cream, put two cups of strong coffee cleared; add four yolks of new laid eggs beat up, half a pound of sugar, and about as much more cream. Coffee a i’eau, Cream au Bain-marie.*— Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground cof- fee in a glass of boiling water, let it stand, and when the coffee is settled, pour off the liquor into a preserving-pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to a ca- ramel; cover this closely, and dissolve the sugar over hot ashes. Then pour the coffee into five glasses of hot milk ; mix them with the yolks of ten eggs and one whole, six ounces of powder sugar, and a grain of salt. Strain the cream, and finish in the usual way. See Cream au Bain- marie. Coffee a I’eau, Cream a la Franfaise.* Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground coffeo in a glass of boiling water, when the I coffee is precipitated, pour it off clear; boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to cara- mel, pour the coffee into it, and then put it on hot ashes, that the sugar may dissolve gently, and when it is perfectly melted, stir in gradually the yolks of eight eggs, four glasses of boiling milk, and six ounces of sugar ; after which put it on a moderate fire, stirring with a wooden spoon ; when it begins to simmer, pass it through a fine sieve, and let it stand till lukewarm ; then mix in six drachms of clarified isinglass, and finish as Cream a la Frangaise. Coffee a I'eau (whipped Cream).*—. Infuse two ounces of fresh ground coffee in half a glass of water; and when the infusion is drawn off clear, put it to two ounces of sugar boiled to caramel; place it over hot ashes, and when the sugar is dis- solved, let it cool; then mix it, and four ounces of powder sugar, with the whipped cream. See that article. Coffee a I’eau (Fromage Bavarois).*— Put a quarter of a pound of ground coffee gradually into two glasses of boiling water ; give it one boil, and when the froth is gone, put in a small piece of isinglass ; let it stand a little while, and then pour it off clear. Add to this liquid half a pound of powdered sugar, and six drachms of isinglass ; proceed after this in the usual way. COLLARED Veal.—Bone a breast of veal, -well beat and flatten it with the chop- per ; brush it over with eggs on the inside part, and strew it well with pounded spices (for seasoning), salt, and Cayenne, and fine herbs chopped ; then place in al- ternate rows, of the thickness of a finger, the lean of a cold ham or tongue, the meat of dressed calves’ feet, gherkins pickled, fat of bacon in strips, the yolks of a dozen eggs steamed in a mould, and cut in strips, and some greened with verd d’Epinard; roll it up tight, and sew it up secure with a packing-needle and small string, then roll it up in a cloth, tie it tight at the ends, and boil it in stock or braise for three hours: on taking it up, tighten it again, put a board and weights on it to press it well; when cold, it may be cut in slices, or served whole with aspic jelly. COLLOPS of Veal.—Cut some veal cutlets; fry them a good brown, but not too much : take some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour, boil it a few minutes ; add Cayenne, catsup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms pickled, grated lemon peel; simmer this up, just heat the collops through, add what gravy came from them.190 COL CON but do not let them boil, or they will be bard; add forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs ; lay round little slices of bacon, notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. Collops a la Bechamelle.—Soak a slice of ham, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shulots, and half a bay leaf; sim- mer these on a slow fire, about a quarter of an hour; then add a spoonful of good cullis, as much cream, and a little flour and pepper ; reduce the liquor till quite thick, and strain it in a sieve ; cut the breasts of roasted poultry into small bits, put the meat into the sauce, with the yolk of one egg, and give them a few boilings together; cut also thin bits of paste, to what form you please, put this ragout be- tween two pieces, pinch all round to se- cure the sauce, and fry them of a fine brown colour. Collops a la Parisienne*—Roll out about a pound of brioche paste very thin, and lay on it at intervals, beginning at two inches from the edge, small portions of minced fowl or game ; moisten the paste round each portion lightly, turn the plain part over, and with a round paste-cutter cut out the collops, taking care that the minced meat is in the centre of each. Leave them for two hours on a well- floured tin, fry them, and when of the pro- per colour, drain them on a napkin, and serve them. Collops of Preserves.*—Roll out some puff paste very thin, wet it, and lay on it, at intervals, whatever preserves you think proper, roll your paste over, press the ends together, and lay them on a tin ; just before they are wanted, fry them lightly ; drain and sprinkle them with sugar ; glaze and serve them. Fresh fruits may be used also, first stew- ing the fruit. Collops a la Russe*—Break four oggs into a stewpnn, and mix with them two spoonsful of flour, then half a glass of good cream, a spoonful of warm butter, and a grain of salt; when these are well mixed togother, pour some of it into a large fryingpan, and fry it of a light co- lour on’ both sides ; then take it out, and fry more in the same way, like pancakes, until you have a dozen very thin; cut each in half, and trim them into oblong pieces all the same size : lay on each some que- nolle, minced fowl or game, as if for cro- quettes; wrap the fried batter round it, wetting the edges, that they may adhere properly, with a little of the batter, hav- ing reserved some for the purpose ; then have ready beaten six eggs and a little salt, mask them with bread crumbs, fry them of a good colour, and serve them quickly'. Collops (Scotch).—Cut veal cutlets (taken from the fillet) into small thin pieces, and fry' them in a little boiling Lard till of a light brown colour. Drain them dry, put them into a stewpun, add cullis, stewed mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, pieces of artichoke bottoms, some slices of throat sweetbreads, and egg balls. Let them simmer over a slow fire till tender, season to the palate, and serve them with rashers of broiled bacon round them. COLOURING for Jellies, Cahes, fyc. —For a beautiful red boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water very slowly', half an hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered, w'ith a little drop of water, or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, orj a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor, and squeezed. For green, pound spinach leaves, or beet leaves, express the juice, and boil in a tea- cupful in a saucepan of water, to take off the rawness. COLTSFOOT (Syrup of).—Take of coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, hyssop one ounce, liquorice root one ounce; boil them in two quarts of spring water till one fourth is consumed ; then strain it, and put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder sugar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, and boil it till it is nearlv as thick as honey. CONSERVES (Dried).—For all sorts of conserves, the sugar should be prepared to the ninth degree, according to the quan- tity wanted; they are all made much after the same manner, the only difference be- ing in the quantity of fruits proposed. Con- serves, are made with all sorts of sweetmeat marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked pretty dry over a slow fire ; use about half a poiind of the sugar thus prepared, to a quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marma- lade ; take the sugar off the fire to work them well together; warm the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose ; when it is cool it may be cut into cakes of what size yon please. Conserve of Four Fruits.*— 1 ake straw- berries, currants, cherries, and raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, and threeCOR 191 COU pounds of sugar. Bruise your fruit, and haring strained off the juice, put it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, skim, and hoil it to casse ; take it from the fire while you put in the juice, then put it on again, and give it one boil, take it off, and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, when the conserve may be poured into moulds. Conserves (Hurd) in 'Moulds.*—These • are made in the same manner as other . conserves, except that they are composed of sugar, and distilled aromatic water; and may be coloured like pastils. CONSOMME.*—Take eight or ten pounds of beef steaks, old hens, four pounds of lean ham, and four knuckles of veal; put these into a large pot, draw ; down with a little broth to a fine glaze, and then fill it up with strong broth; skim it well, cooling it three or four times to make the scum rise, after which let it boil gently; put into the pot carrots, turnips, onions, and cloves. When your meat is sufficiently done, pass the liquor through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it may be very clear. No salt need be put in if strong broth be used. Consomme of Game*—Is made in the same manner as with poultry, substituting the backs, dec. of partridges or other game for the trimmings of fowls. Consomme of Poultry.*—Lay a few slices of ham and veal at the bottom of a stewpan, and on them the trimmings of P poultry, cover them with consommi, and let it stand over a slow fire till the meat is j quite wanned through; then add more ; consomme, mushrooms, parsley, and scal- £ lions, and then let the whole continue to j- boil till done. Strain it through a silk 1 sieve, and set it by for use. CORIANDER Dragees. — Take any | quantity of coriander seeds, put them in I the tossing-pan over the fire, and let them f vr‘lrm > when they are warm, throw in l about half a glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are dry ; have clarified sugar, f tvkicli boil in another pan ; then, when the 1 corianders are dry, add a little gum to , them, and do the same again till they are dry, and continue so doing till you see the corianders aro covered to the size you "ant to have them; when that is done, | take the corianders out from the pan, wash 1 them well, and put them in again, and stir them well till they are all warm; then take your clarified sugar which you have pre- viously boiled to the first degree; when is is done, put it in an instrument of copper, made on purpose for the operation, and at the bottom of which there is a little hole ; hang it up by a packthread string, that the sugar may fall from about a yard height into the pan where the corianders are ; while the sugar falls into your pan keep stirring well your dragees till you see they are well pearled over, or rouo-Ii and grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take them out, and place them in the stove to finish drying. Coriander Ices.—Bruise an ounce of coriander seed, infuse them about an hour in a pint of warm water, with half a pound of sugar, and sift through a 'napkin ; then finish like other ices. Coriander (Sugared).*—These seeds are sugared in the same manner as sugared almonds. Coriander Water. — Having cleared your coriander seeds from the husks, put a handful into a quart of water, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and set it by to infuse for two or three hours; then pour the liquor out of one pot into another- strain it, and keep it for use. GOUGrLAUFELE (German).*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yeast, an ounce of fine salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, twelve eggs, the yolks of twelve more, two pounds of fresh butter, three glasses of milk, and a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds. Proceed with these materials in the following manner: Put the butter (haying slightly warmed half a pound of it), into a glazed pan, and with a large wooden spoon work it up for six or seven minutes; then put in two whole eggs, and stir it two minutes ; then add three yolks, and stir again two mi- nutes ; in this manner put in the whole number of eggs and yolks; which will produce a kind of smooth cream. Then by degrees mix in two pounds of the flour, dissolve the yeast in a pint of warm milk’ strain it through a napkin, stir this in well, with another half pound of flour; make a hollow in the paste, in which put the salt and sugar in powder; afterwards pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the whole together with the remainder of the flour; continue to work it up for somo minutes after the whole ingredients are put in, adding a small quantity of warm milk, which will render it smooth. Have a mould ready, butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each cut in half, over the bottom ot the mould, in forms, on which pour the paste carefully, and in small quantities, so as not to derange the almonds. Placocou 192 COW your mould in a warm, but not in a bot place, that the cake may rise properly; and when that operation has taken place, put it into a moderate oven, which should be kept closed; in an hour’s time look at the Couglaujjle, and if it be flexible, and of a light colour, let it remain thirty or forty minutes longer; but if it be firm and red it is sufficiently done ; when taken from the mould, put it into the oven again for a few minutes. Couglauffles (Small).*—To make a dozen small couglauffles, take three quar- ters of a pound of flour, three drachms of yeast, two of salt, two whole eggs, three yolks, two ounces of sugar, a little cream, and half a pound of butter. The prepara- tion is made the same as the German Coug- lauffle. When the paste is made, divide it into twelve equal parts ; butter a dozen small biscuit moulds, and fill each with your preparation, and let them stand : when risen so as to fill the moulds, put them into a brisk oven, and take them out as soon as they are of a light colour. COUQUES.*—Put into a saucepan the yolks of sixteen eggs, the rinds of two lemons, half an ounce of salt, and two ounces of sugar; on these pour a pint of boiling cream, stirring it quick; set it on the fire, but do not let it boil, strain it through a bolting, and then let it cool; take two pounds of flour, and make a quarter of it into leaven with half an ounce of yeast and a little warm water, keep it rather moist, and put it into a warm place to rise : in the mean time, make the remainder of the flour into a paste, with the cream and a quarter of a pound of butter, knead it up five or six times; then put in the leaven, and knead it again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and set it in a warm place. In about two hours take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the size of an egg, form them to that sh’ape, and lay them on a baking-tin, and leave them for half an hour to rise, then dores and bake them in a bot oven ; when done, open each on one side, take out a little of the crumb, in the place of which put a bit of butter worked up with a little salt, and serve them. COURT BOUILLON.*—Cut a proper quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and tur- nips, and put them into a saucepan with butter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a mignonette, and cloves; sweat them over a gentle fire; add white wine vinegar or verjuice; boil, and then strain it, and serve it with whatever you may require it for. It is generally used for fish. CounT Bouillon for all sorts of Fresh- , water Fish*—Put some water into a fish- kettle, with a quart of white wine, a slice •, > of butter, salt, pepper, a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a clove of garlic, ; thyme, bay leaves, and basil, all tied to- gether, some sliced onions and some car- • i rots; boil the fish in this court bouillon, t (which will serve for 'several times) and do not scale it; when the fish will admit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a napkin, which makes it more easy to take out with- out danger of breaking. COVVHEEL (Boiled).—Boil a cow- heel very gently in a large saucepan of soft : water, with nearly a quart of milk, some salt, and four or five large onions; when very tender the cowheel will be done enough. Serve with the onions. Cowheel Soup.—Take six pounds of mutton, five pounds of beef, and four of: veal, the coarsest pieces will do; cut them 11 across with a knife; put them into a pot t with an old fowl beat to pieces, and the ; knuckle part of a ham : let these stew, 1 without any liquor, over a very slow fire, but take care it does not burn to the pot;; when it begins to stick to the bottom, stir : it about, and then put in some good beef broth that has been well skimmed from the ; fat; put in some turnips, carrots and ce- ■ lery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs and ! J a bay leaf, add some clear broth, and let it : stew about an hour; while this is doing, ,1 take a cowheel, split it, and set it on to boil in some of the same broth ; when it is • very tender, take it oft’, and set on a stew- pan with some crusts of bread, and some more broth ; let them soak for eight or ten minutes; when the soup is stewed enough, . lay the crust in a tureen, the two halves • of the cowheel upon them, and then pour on the soup, which will be very rich and i good. COW’S UDDER, and Verjuice Sauce. Cut the udder in pieces, and put it into a stewpan, with chopped parsley, chibbol, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and butter; let it catch; then add a glass of white wine, broth, pepper, and salt; simmer ,it to a thick sauce; then make a liaison with the yolks of two eggs and broth ; when ready add a spoonful of veijuice or lemon. COWSLIP Pudding.—Get the flowers of a peck of cowslips, cut, and pound them small, with half a pound of Naples biscuits grated, and three pints of cream. Boil them a little, then take them off the fire, and beat up sixteen eggs with a little cream and rose water. Sweeten to your193 CRA CRA palate. Mix it all well together; butter a dish and pour it in. Bake it, and when done throw fine sugar over, and serve it up. New milk will do when you cannot get cream. Cowslip Wine*—One gallon of water, three pounds of lump sugar, one Seville orange, and one lemon to every gallon of cowslip pips. First boil the sugar and water an hour, skim it clear, and when boiling, pour it out, and let it stand till nearly cold; then put it into the barrel, upon the pips, and about a tea-cupful of yeast to eight gallons of wine. Peel half the number of oranges and lemons, squeeze the juice into the cask, cut the remainder into slices, which add with the peels. When the fermentation ceases, or has lasted a sufficient time, put to the whole a little brandy. CRABS.—If fresh, the joints of the legs will be stiff, and the inside has an agreeable smell. When light, they are watery; therefore, always choose the heaviest. They are stale when the eyes look dead. Crab (to boil).*■—Choose your crab of the middling size, put it into boiling- water with salt in it, keep it boiling for about three quarters- of an hour; when done, wipe the shell quite clean, and rub it over with a little butter. Before they are sent to table, the large claws should be broken off, and the shell cracked carefully, and the body sent up whole. Crabs browned, and served in the Shell.—• Leave the great shell whole, mince all the fish, shred some parsley, mushrooms or truffles, a little young onion; fry these; put in the minced crab, with the inside bruised, some pepper, salt, and grated lemon peel; stir this about, shake on some flour, and add a little lemon juice, with some good gravy; let this simmer up; fill the shell or shells ; strew over bread crumbs; brown them in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. Crab (Buttered).—Pick out the fish, bruise the inside, beat in a little gravy, with a little wine, some pepper, salt, nut- meg, a few bread crumbs, a piece of butter, with a very little flour, some vinegar or lemon juice. You may brown it. Crab (Farced)—Boil a crab, take the meat out of the shell, and mince the claws with a fresh eel; season it with salt cloves, mace, and sweet herbs, shred small; mix them with the yolks of eggs ; add grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, and boiled artichokes cut in dice, if in season, or asparagus boiled; some almond paste, the meat of the body of the crab, and some bread grated ; fill the shells with this compound, and also make some of it into balls, put them into a dish with white wine and butter, and bake them in a gentle oven ; when they are baked, put them into another dish, and serve them with beaten butter, large mace, scalded grapes, goose- berries, or barberries, slices of orange or lemon, and the yolks of raw eggs dissolved in claret or white wine, and beat up with thick butter ; pour this on the fish, garnish with slices of lemon, stick the balls of farced meat with pistachios, sliced almonds, pine apple seeds, or some pretty cuts in paste. Crab Pie.—Take half a dozen crabs, boil them, and take the meat out of the shells, season it with salt and nutmeg, then soak the meat taken out of the bodies with claret wine, cinnamon, some ginger, butter, and juice of orange; make your pie, lay some butter in the bottom, lay in the meat with artichoke bottoms, the yolks of three or four hard eggs, chopped small; asparagus, large mace, barberries, grapes, dates, slices of oranpe and butter. When it is baked, liquor it with some of the meat out of the bodies of the crabs, mingled with cream or drawn butter. CRACKNELS.—Mix a quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonsful of rose water, into a stiff paste, with cold water * then rub in a pound of butter, and make into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim; then take them out, and put them into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. Cracknels (Small Soft).*—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, adding to them by degrees six eggs; when thoroughly pound- ed, pour on them a pound of powder sugar, the same of butter, and the rinds of two lemons grated ; beat up these ingredients in the mortar : put a pound of flour on a slab, and having poured the almond paste on it, knead them together until they are well incorporated ; roll it out, and cut the cracknels into such forms as you may think proper, rub them witli yolk of egg, and strew over them powder sugar or cinna- mon : then lay them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven, taking great care that they do not burn. When done, put them into glasses, and if preserved o194 CRA CRA in a dry place they are the better for keeping. Crack-nuts.—Mix together eight oun- ces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonsful of raisin wine; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make it into a paste ; add carraways, roll it out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRANBERRIES (different Ways of dressing).—For pies and puddings, with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a jar, with the same; this way they eat well with bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. Cranberry Jelly.—Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed, as directed in The different Ways of dress- ing Cranberries; sweeten it, and boil it up ; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good lump, or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry and Bice Jelly.—Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and, by degrees, mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly ; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat with milk or cream. Cranberry Tart.—This tart is made like all other fruit tarts; the best cran- berries should be used and well washed; a quarter of a pound of sugar is the proper quantity for a quart of cranberries ; to this must be added the juice of half a lemon. Serve it cold. CRAYFISH (Bisque of).—Take about fifty or sixty crayfish, stew them in a little water, with carrots, onions, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, salt, and pepper, for half an hour, then drain, and take them out of their'shells; and having laid aside thirty of the tails whole, pound the remainder of the meat with the breasts of two roast fowls, the crumbs of two French rolls, pre- viously soaked in rich broth, and the yolks of three hard eggs. Boil the shells in a little broth, and, with the liquor, dilute the pounded meat, and rub the whole through a silk sieve. Boil a pint and a half of cream, keep it stirring, and pour on the soup; season it, and add the coral of a lobster pounded, and mixed with a little broth; set the whole on the fire, but do not let it boil. When quite done, pour it into the tureen on some previously soaked bread, and put the tails which were reserved, on the soup, and serve it hot. Crayfish (Broiled).9—The fish being boiled, take them out of their shells, and , soak them for a quarter of an hour in white ; wine, with pepper, salt, and shred parsley; | soak also in the same way, an equal num- ; her of fish roes; tie these, alternately, on skewers, dip them in egg, bread them lightly, and broil them of a nice colour. Crayfish Butter (Sauce of).*—Boil your r crayfish in water, with vinegar, parsley, salt, and pepper; take the meat from the shells, dry and pound it well with butter, set the whole on a gentle fire for a quarter r of an hour, and pass it through a sieve into a basin of cold water and let it congeal. . The shells must likewise be pounded, and mix them with the rest; if they do not make it sufficiently red, add a little orcha- net root. Crayfish a la Calonne *—Take the num- ber of crayfish you may want, as fresh as - possible ; split each in half, and put them i into a stewpan with white wine, a little ■ oil, a sliced lemon, salt, and pepper ; let: them stew in this till done ; then dish them; add to the liquor some blond, re- duce, and strain it, and pour it over your crayfish. Crayfish Cheese.*•—Having washed and boiled the fish, as usual, take off the small claws and tails, and set them aside. Chop up the meat that remains in the shells with some other fish, artichoke bottoms, sweet herbs, and butter; mix them well, and put it in a dish in the form of a small cheese, round which lay the tails; cover it with bread crumbs, and colour it in the oven for fifteen minutes. Crayfish Cream.—Boil a pint of cream and some fine sugar; reduce it to about half ; pound the carcasses of eight or more cravfish ; put them to this cream, with a fowl’s gizzard, and boil for about a quarter of an hour; then strain it several times, and bake it between two slow fires. Crayfish (Cullis off*—\\ ash and boil about thirty crayfish in plain water, then take off the shells, and pound them well with the meat of the fish, and a dozen almonds. Cut a pound and a half of fillet of veal, and some ham into slices, and put them into a saucepan with mi onion, carrots, and parsnips; do them until they are about the consistence of veal gravy; then add a little flour and melted bacon; put them on again, and keep them stirring; moisten the whole with good stock, and add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, scallions.i95 CRA CRE champignons, truffles, and crusts ofbread ; simmer it, take out the veal, put to it the pounded crayfish, and then strain it. To make this cullis maigre, substitute butter for the bacon, and moisten it with fish broth. Crayfish (Cullis of) an gras*—Take about thirty crayfish of a moderate size, and after several times washing them, boil them in water; then pick them and put the shells aside, pound them and twelve sweet almonds and the crayfish well in a mortar; then take a fillet of veal and a piece of ham, cut them into slices with an onion, and add some slices of carrots and parsnips ; when the whole has taken colour, add some melted bacon and a little flour; let it sim- mer, stirring it well; then moisten the whole udth some good stock or broth. Add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, young onions, mushrooms, truffles, crusts of bread, i and let it simmer; then take out the veal, i dilute the contents of the mortar with the juice, and strain the whole through a i sieve. Crayfish (Cullis of) ait maigre.—In- stead of melted bacon, substitute butter; j let whatever you make it of be only half I brawned, and moisten it with good fish | liquor; but, of course, a cullis au maigre can never equal the excellence of a cullis i an gras. Crayfish (Patted).—Having boiled the fish in salt and water, and picked out all the meat, sprinkle them with spice, pepper, and salt, and then pound it to a fine paste, adding a little butter; put it into pots, and cover them with clarified butter. Crab is potted in the same way. Crayfish a la Provenfale.*—Boil your fish in equal quantities of wine and water, with salt, lemon, sweet herbs ; shell them, remove the small claws, and simmer them for half an hour in whatever sauce you please. Serve them with the sauce poured over, and around them. Crayfish au Restaurant Glace.*—Boil 1 your fish in good broth, with two slices of 1 veal, cut in dice; anil when done, put I them in your dish; add to the liquor some i veal or fowl gravy, and reduce it to a jelly, which pour over the crayfish ; put them in a cool place, that the jelly may set. Serve cold. Crayfish (Roasted).*—Put the fish to soak in hot wine, but do not boil them; when well drained, stuff them with sweet herbs, butter, salt, pepper, and basil; fasten them with skewers on a spit, and foast them before gentle fire; baste them with their own dripping or boiling wine. Crayfish (Salad of).*—Boil crayfish as usual, take them from the shells, put them into a salad-bowl with anchovies, arti- choke bottoms, and seasoned like other salads. Crayfish Soup.—Put some eels, flound- ers, &c. into cold water, set them on the fire, and when near boiling, skim, and add to it onions, carrots, parsley, and whole pepper. Take about fifty crayfish, and having taken them from their shells, put them into the fish broth, also the small claws and tails, finely pounded ; let them boil for an hour, then strain it off; add some crusts of bread, and the spawn of a lobster pounded. Crayfish Soup.—Boil six whitings, and a large eel, with as much water as will just cover them; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves; boil them to a mash. Pick fifty crayfish, pound the shells, and a small roll, but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs; put this liquor over the shells, on a sieve; then pour the other soup clear from the sediment; chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef gTavy; and also the tails of the crayfish, and some flour and butter, and season ac- cording to your taste. CREAM d I’Anglaise.*■—Take two yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, two ounces of candied orange and lemon peel, five ounces of blanched pistachio nuts, beat these all up in a mortar; add to them a pint of good milk, and boil them over a gentle fire, stir- ring it frequently to prevent its burning. When done, add five or six drops of orange-flower water, pour the whole on a dish, and set it over the fire till the edges are brown ; sprinkle sugar over, and sala- mander it. Cream au Bain-marie*—Mix up what- ever ingredient of which the cream is to be made, with eggs and sugar; for the pro- portions, see the respective articles; strain them through a fine sieve, and pour the preparation into a mould lightly buttered within side. Put this mould in a large saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boiling water to reach within an inch of the mould; placo the saucepan on hot ashes, cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; renew the fire underneath occasion- ally, so as to keep the water at the same temperature, that is, nearly, but never o 2196 CRE CRE quite, boiling for an hour and a half; then, if the cream is properly set, which may be known by touching it with your finger, and observing whether it may be easily detached from the mould, take it from the bain-marie and let it stand; when no more than lukewarm, turn it out on your dish. It sometimes happens, unavoidably, that bubbles arise on the surface of the cream ; in such a case, boil a glass of cream, and add to it, by degrees, three yolks of eggs; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon; mix three ounces of fine sugar with it, and continue stirring it over the fire, till of a proper consistence, and on the point of boiling, then take it off and strain it. W hen the cream is ready for table, cover it com- pletely with the last-made cream, which will hide its defects. Cream Biscuits.—Break six eggs, se- parate the yolks and whites, beat the former with six ounces of pow'der sugar, and the same of flour; whisk the whites, and then mix them together; add to it whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar and flour, stir it carefully, pour this into moulds or paper cases, and bake. Cream Biscuits.*—Take six ounces of flour, two of powder sugar, a pound and a half of cream, and the whites of twelve eggs ; beat up the latter with the sugar and flour; whip the cream, and lay it on a sieve. When well drained, mix them together, and put the prepa- ration into cases, and bake in the usual way. Cream Biscuits*—Put the yolks of three eggs into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, on which has been rasped the zest of a small cedrat; beat them up for about ten minutes, and then whip the whites and mix them gra- dually with the yolks, an ounce and a half of dry sifted flour, and four spoons- ful of whipped cream. When these in- gredients are well mixed and smooth, pour the paste into about a dozen small cases, glaze the tops of them with sifted sugar; when that is melted, put the biscuits into a gentle oven, and bake them for twenty or five-and-twenty mi- nutes. Cream (Burnt).—Set on the fire in a stewpan two tablo-spoonsiul of clarified sugar, leave it on till it begins to burn and get brown ; then shake it about, and put in an ounce of ratafia biscuit, a small piece of lemon peel, sugar, and orange flower; stir together; then put in a pint of new milk, boiled; when it has simmered by the side of the stove for twenty minutes, beat up four eggs, and the yolks of two, in a stewpan; take the milk from the fire, and mix wdtli it half a pint of good thick cream, then the eggs, which rub through a tammy, and repeat it a second time. Rub some small moulds with clarified butter, and fill them with cream; have a large stew- pan on the fire with a very little water at the bottom, when it boils gently, put in your cream; and cover it close, with fire laid upon the cover (if you think proper, it may be put into one large mould).— When done take them out of the water, wipe them, and turn them on a dish. Cream Cake.*—Putapound offlourup- on a pie-board ; make a hole in the middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream, and a little salt; mix the paste lightly, let it stand for half an hour, then add half a pound of butter; roll it out, five times, the same as puff paste, and form it into small cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and bake in an oven. Cream Calces.—Sift some double-re- fined sugar; beat the whites of seven or eight eggs; shake in as many spoonsful of the sugar; grate in the rind of a large lemon; drop the froth on a paper, laid on tin, in lumps at a distance; sift a good deal of sugar over them; set them in a moderate oven; the froth will rise; just colour them; you may put raspberry jam, and stick two" bottoms together; put them in a cool oven to dry; serve, if you please, with whipped cream between every two. Cream Cakes.*—Put into a stewpan two glasses of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, the rind of a lemon, cut small, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and a pinch of salt. Set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil, put it by the side of the stove; take out the lemon peel, and add, by degrees, as much flour as the liquid will bear; keep stir- ring it constantly, and place it on the fire again, for five minutes, then pour it into a basin; add to it, one by one, as many eggs as will make the paste stick to the fingers; put the paste on a slab, and make your cakes of a round form. Cream an Caramel.*—Put a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, with a hit of cinnamon, some coriander seeds, and the peel of a young lemon, into a sauce- pan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour; then take it off the fire, andCRE CRE 197 boil a quarter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, until it becomes of a nice dark colour; take it oft' the fire, and mix with the cream; then put it on the lire again, until the sugar and cream are well mixed together; then place a saucepan, with some hot water in it, over hot ashes; take a dish, in which you in- tend sei-ying, and pour in your cream, then place it in the saucepan; put on the lid of the saucepan, with fire above, and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve hot. Cream au Caramel au Bain-marie.*■— Boil half a pound of sugar to caramel; pour a quarter of it into the bottom of a mould which has been buttered, and which must be placed on hot ashes, to allow the sugar to extend over the bottom of the mould; dissolve the remainder of the caramel sugar with a glass of boiling Water. When dissolved, mix it with five glasses of boiling milk, and afterwards with one whole egg, and ten yolks, a quar- ter of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix them together by degrees. Fi- nish your preparation according to the di- rections. See Cream au Bain-marie. Cream au Caramel Anise au Bain- marie.*—Infuse a drachm of green, and the same of starred anise, in five glasses of boiling milk; keep it covered; and in the mean while boil six ounces of sugar, to caramel, which must then be dissolv- ed in a glass of boiling water. When the infusion is nearly cold, pour it to the su- gar, and then mix both with ten yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt. Stir it well, and then proceed in the usual way. See Cream au Bain-marie. Cream a la Cardinals.*—Pound the shells of thirty boiled crayfish ; put them tnto some butter; mix them well together, till the whole is a fine red colour; then pour on it a pint of boiling cream or milk (with a little sugar in it); boil them to- I father for a quarter of an hour; pass it | three times through a sieve ; put to it the gizzards of two chickens; boil it for five Minutes, to set it. Cream au Chapelet.—Boil a pint of cream to reduce it to half, with lemon peel, cinnamon, coriander seed, su^ar, and the skin of a fowl’s gizzard, chopped; strain it; prepare a border for the dish, with some pounded chocolate, a spoonful ct gum dragon, melted thick, and sifted fhrough a cloth ; put fine sugar to it until it becomes a hard paste ; roll bits of it “to balls; put them to dry, and garnish the dish round with them. The cream must be finished to your own taste; the balls are joined together with caramelled. sugar in the form of crosses, or any other, and made to stand up round the cream. Cream (Clotted).—Take four quarts of new’ milk, from the cow, and put it in a broad earthen pan, and let it stand till the next day : then put it over a very slow fire for half an hour ; make it nearly hot, to cream, then put it away till it is cold, and take the cream off and beat it smooth with a spoon. Cream (Clotted).—Take two quarts of new milk, a pint of cream, and three spoonsful of rose water. Put these to- gether into a large pan; set it over a charcoal fire, but not too hot; let it stand twenty-four hours, and when you take it off, loosen the edge of the cream round about with a knife ; then take your board, lay the edges that are left beside the board; cut them into pieces, and put them into the dish first; then scrape sugar over them ; take off the cream with your board as clean from the milk as you can, and lay it in the dish, and strew sugar over it. Cream (Clotted).—String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonsful of rose- water ; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor, strained into the yolks of two new eggs, well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of vent good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruit. Some persons prefer it without any flavour but that of cream; in which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it like the Devonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring; and when that is seen, removo the pan from the fire. Cream (Codlitig).—Pare and core twenty codlings; beat them in a mortar, w’ith a pint of cream; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread crumbs, and. a glass of wine to it. Stir it well. Cream (Cold).—Take a pint of Rhenish wine, and a good deal of fine sugar; beat fine a quart of good cream, and a lemon cut round, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and a Sprig of rosemary; pour them all togother; let thejn stand a while, and.CRE CRE 198 beat them up with a rod till they rise; take it off with a spoon as it rises: lay it in a pot or glass, and then serve. X — o ' CnEAM du Commissuire.*—Bone, and pound the meat of a roasted partridge, moistening it with a little consomme or veal gravy; then mix with it the yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, and spice, in powder; rub the whole through a sieve into a dish, and coolc it in the bain-marie. Cream (Crackling).— Beat up the yolks of as many eggs as will he sufficient for the quantity of cream you wish to make, pouring in milk as you beat them; then put in some rasped sugar and lemon peel; set the dish upon a furnace, and keep continually stirring till the cream begins to be made; slacken your fire; stir the cream without intermission, turn- ing it to the other side of the dish, till very little or none remains at the bottom, and that a border may be made round them, taking great care that it is not burnt. When it is ready, heat the fire-shovel red hot, and give it a fine colour; and with the point of a knife loosen the whole bor- der, that it may remain entire. Then let it be put again into the same dish, and let it be dried in the oven, that very little may be left in the dish, and it will orackle in the mouth. Cream (Croquante).*—Take a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the peel of a lemon grated, orange-flower water, four pounded macaroons; boil these until re- duced to half; then add two ounces of powder sugar ; put into another saucepan the yolks of eight eggs, on which pour the cream, a little at a time ; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly until the cream is set; then spread it on a baking-tin, keeping it about the thickness of a crown piece ; place the tin on a trivet over the fire, and pass a salamander over the surface of the cream to dry it. When that is done, cut your cream into pieces of whatever form you may think proper ; lay them on a dish, and put them in the oven till they crisp. Serve either hot or cold. Cream (Snow).—Put to a quart of cream flie whites of three eggs well beaten, lour spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to youi , taste, and a bit of lemon peel; whip it to a froth; remove the peel and serve in a dish. Cream (CurdY—-Take a pint cream ; boil it with a little mace, cinnamon, and rosewater, to make it sweet; when it is as cold ns new milk, put in about halt a spoonful of good rennet, and when it curds, serve it in tv cream dish. Cream (Custard).—Grate extremely fine the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a quart of cream, with half a pound of fresh butter, and the yolks of a dozen eggs ; put to them as much sugar as you please, and let it tliicken over the fire; ; make the custards shallow, and when they have stood half an hour in a slow oven, grate some loaf sugar over them, and serve. Cream (Devonshire, or Scalded).—If in the winter, the milk should stand for four-, and-twenty hours but if in the summer, , it should stand only for twelve; then the milk-pan should be placed upon a hot hearth, provided ymu have one, if not, it should be placed in a wide brass kettle of water, large enough to receive the pan; it must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skim instead of cream upon the milk. \ ou will know when done enough, by the un- dulations on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size oi the t bottom. The time required to scald cream, depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire; the slower the better. Remove the pan into the dairy- when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. Cream d I’Eau.*—Beat four eggs with a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, shred small, the juice of the same, and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar. W hen well beaten, pass it two or three times through a napkin ; then put it in a dish, oyer a gentle fire, stirring till it thickens; dish it hot, but it must be served cold. Cream (an excellent).—II hip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon peel, a squeeze of lemon juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant to the taste; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and the next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff- paste biscuits, made in tin shapes, the length of a finger, and about two thick; over which should bo strewed sugar, or a little glaze, with isinglass. The edges of the dish may be lined with macaroons. Cream of Floioers.*—Take roses, violets, jessamine, pinks, and orange pound them, adding a little warm mi ' • press them in a clean cloth, and mix t ie with a pint of well-boiled cream : add toe yolks of six eggs, and sugar; strain, put it into a dish; then place the dish o hot ashes; cover and lay more coals on the199 CRE CRE top, and let it stand till thick, when it should be set to cool. Cream Franfaise au Caramel Anise*— Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel height, and when taken from the fire, mix it with two drachms of green, and two of starred anise. When cold, dissolve it with a glass of boiling water ; add gradually the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four glasses of nearly boiling milk, and a grain of salt. The cream is then made according to the directions for Cacao Cream a la Frunguise. Cream Fran^aise au Marasquin*—Boil four glasses of milk, and then mix it by degrees with the yolks of eight eggs, ten ■ ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt; put these ingredients into a saucepan over a moderate fire, stirring constantly; when it begins to simmer, strain it; add six ' drachms of isinglass to it : as soon as it is cold, put in half a glass of good maras- chino, and complete the operation accord- ing to direction. See Cacao Cream a la Frangaise. You may vary this recipe, by putting in i half a glass of arrack or rum, instead of the u maraschino. Cream Fran$aise au Parfait Amour.*— Take ten ounces of lump sugar, and rasp i on it the zests of two lemons and a cedrat; ■ scrape the sugar as usual, and put into it ' five glasses of nearly boiling milk, with ten cloves, bruised; cover it, and when nearly cold, add, a few at a time, the yolks of eight eggs, and a grain of salt. Thicken the cream over a moderate lire, and finish it as directed. See Cacao Cream a la [i Franfaise. Cream Franfaise aux Quatre Zestes*— :■ Take a piece of sugar weighing ten ounces; upon which rasp, in the usual way, the f zests of a lemon, a cedrat, a sweet and a I" Seville orange ; infuse the scraped sugar in " five glasses of nearly boiling milk; cover it, and when no more than lukewarm, pour into it by degrees the yolks of eight eggs, \ ^it!l a grain of salt. Finish as directed. F See Cacao Cream a la Fran^aise* Cream (Fried).*—Boil half a pint of nulk with the peel of a lemon; put to two eggs as much flour as they will take up ; then add four more eggs, and the boiling tnilk without the lemon peel; mix it well that there may be no lumps; set it over the fire, stirring it constantly ; in a quarter of an hour add a little salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a few drops of orange-flower water; finish boiling it, and then add the yolks of four eggs, two bitter macaroons, and some marchpane crushed very small ; pour this preparation on a buttered tin, spread it out for about an inch in thickness, and when cold, cut it into lozenges, circles, or such other forms as you may like better ; dip them in an omelet, cover them with bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them well, sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them. Cream (Fried).*—Mix gradually into a stewpan about three spoonsful of flour, with six eggs (the whites and yolks also), a little grated lemon peel, some dried orange flowers shred fine, a pint of milk, a small lump of sugar’, and a few grains of salt; boil the whole over a slow fire, for half an hour, keeping constantly stirring ; when the cream is very thick, spread it about the thickness of half an inch upon a floured dish, and shake some flour over it; when cold, you may cut it into any form you please, and fry in a very hot pan; glaze with sugar and a salamander. Cream (Fried) a la Parisienne.*—Make your cream with the addition of six eggs, ex- actly the sameas Cream au Bain-marie; when quite cold, cut it into pieces of whatever form you may choose, either round, sq uare, oval, &c., but do not make them above two inches long, or three quarters of an inch thick. Make a batter as follows : Put three quarters of apoundof sifted flour into a pan, pour on it a little water, in which two ounces of butter have been melted; hold the saucepan slanting, and blow the water aside, so as to pour the butter in first; then add a sufficient quantity of water to make your batter of a proper con- sistence ; when it will flow and quit the spoon readily, put in a pinch of salt, and the whites of two eggs whipped firm. Make your fryingpan quite hot, dip jmur cream into the batter, and fry it of a good colour; drain the pieces, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and glaze them with the salamander. Any of the flavoured creams au bain- marie, may be dressed in this manner. In- stead of frying the cream in batter as above, you may bread them ns follows : Having beat half a dozen eggs, dip in them each piece of cream, drain, and then mask them with bread crumbs, grated very smnll; dip them a second time in egg, and bread them again, taking care to preserve the form ; fry, sprinkle with sugar, and glaze them as the first mentioned. Cream (Fried) a la Piltissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful ofCRE CRE 200 eifted flour, three glasses of boiling milk, and a pinch of salt; make your cream in the usual way (see Cream Putissiere), then add a quarter of a pound of good butter, the same of powder sugar, of sweet and hitter macaroons, a spoonful of orange flowers pralinecs. Pour your cream on a buttered baking-plate, and when cold, cut it in pieces, and fry it as fried cream a la Parisienne. Cream Fritters.*—Mix a handful of flour, with three whole eggs, and the yolks of six, four pounded macaroons, some dried orange flowers browned in sugar, a little candied lemon peel chopped very fine, half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and a lump of sugar ; boil the whole over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream turns to a thick paste ; then let it cool in a dish well floured, shaking flour till over it. When cold, cut the paste into small pieces, roll them in your hands till they become round, and fry them of a good colour: when you serve them, powder them all over with sugar. Cream Fritters a la Daupliine.*—Take the third, part of any cream pAtissiere you please, and having rolled out the brioche paste, place on it, when cold, the cream in small pieces, cut the fritters, and finish them in the usual way. See Fritters a la Daupliine. Cream Froth*—Put a pint of fresh double cream into a stone pan, with half a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, a little crisped orange flower, and three drops of cedrat essence; when the sugar is dissolved, place the pan in another, in which is three pounds of ice beaten up with saltpetre ; whip the cream in the usual manner, taking off the froth ds it rises with a skimmer, lay it gently on a sieve over a pan ; if the cream does not froth properly, add the whites of two eggs. This cream is usually served in large silver or gilt goblets, and should be prepared two or three hours before it is wanted. Cream (German).*—Boil a pint of Rhenish wine, some sugar, and cinna- mon, for half an hour; then add to it the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten and strained ; mix them well, and cook it in tire bain-marie. Cream (Glazed).*—Tut a small handful of flour into a stewpun, with some lemon peel, chopped very small, some orange flowers, dried and pounded, and a lump of sugar; then beat up the yolks of eight eggs, with a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, keeping the whites by them- selves ; mix the yolks well together in the stewpan, with the flour and other ingre- dients, and let them boil gently for half an hour; when the cream is thickened, take it off the fire, and whip the whites of the eggs till they are well frothed; then add them to the cream, and pour the whole into the dish for table; strew sugar all over the cream ; put the dish into an oven of a moderate heat, and when the cream rises well, and is glazed, serve. To make it rise, the dish should be covered with the lid of a saucepan, upon which fire should be placed. Cream (Hasty).—Take a gallon of milk, warm from the cow, set it on the fire, and ■when it begins to rise, take it off the fire, and set it by ; skim off all the cream, and put it into a plate; then set the skillet over the fire again, and repeat the skim- ming till your plate is full of cream ; put to it some orange flower, and sugar, and so serve it. Cream (Imperial).— Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon ; then stir it till nearly cold; have ready, in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which pour into the dish from a large tea- pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it is served, and will be still better if a day. Cream (Imperial). — Take a quart of water, six ounces of hartshorn ; put them into a stone bottle, and tie it close down, do not fill it too full, and put it into a pot of boiling water, or in an oven to bake; let it stand three or four hours, strain it through a jelly-bag, and let it cool ; having ready six ounces of almonds beat very fine, put to them as much cream as jelly; mix them together, strain the almonds and cream, and set altogether over the fire till it is scalding hot; strain it into narrow- bottom glasses, let them stand a whole day, and then turn them out; stick them all over with blanched almonds, or pine- apple seeds laid in water a day before you peel them, and they will come out like a flower; then stick them on the cream. Cream (Italian).*—Boil a pint and a half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it the peel of a young lemon, some coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, rather more than half a quarter of a pound of sugar, and two or three grains of salt; let it boi ti half is consumed ; then let it stand to cool,CRE CRE 201 and have ready in another stewpan a little flour, beat up with the yolks of six eggs ; stir it by degrees into the cream; strain it through a sieve, and put it in a dish for table, placing the dish in some hot water over the fire till the cream is set. Before serving, brown with a salamander. Cream (Italian).*—Put a gill of good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan, and whip them up to- gether ; and when the cream is sufficiently thick, put it into a deep dish, with plenty of powder sugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and lay hot ashes on the top, which must he renewed until the cream is done enough ; then let it cool, and serve it. Cream (fo keep').—Cream already skim- med, may be kept twenty-four hours, if I scalded without sugar; and by adding to it as much powdered lump sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good for two days, keeping in a cool place. Cream (Light).*•—Take a pint and a half of milk, some sugar, lemon peel, and orange-flower water ; boil the whole to- gether till reduced to half the quantity ; then take it off the fire, and let it cool; in the mean time, beat up a spoonful of flour with the yolks of six eggs (keeping the whites separate), and gradually mix the yolks with the cream; strain the cream through a sieve, and put the vessel which contains it in some boiling water over the fire ; when the cream is set, take the vessel out of the hot water, beat up the whites of your eggs to a froth, add to them some powdered sugar, and cover the cream with the whites of eggs, in the form of a dome ; then bake it under a lid that will admit fire at the top ; let the heat he moderate, and serve your cream of a fine colour. Cream (Loo/).—Take the crumb out of a good large round roll, rasped ; and soak the crust a little while in milk, sugar, and lemon; then drain, and fill it up with frangipane cream, and stop it up with pieces of bread; put a little into the bottom of the dish in which you serve, the roll npon it, and put cream all over, with pow- der sugar; bake it in a pretty hot oven to give it a fine brown colour. Cream d La Madeleine *—Bent up four eggs (whites and yolks together) with a pinch of flour, a little grated lemon peel, a small piece of pounded cinnamon, some bitter-almond biscuits pounded, half a spoonful of orange-flower water, a pint of cream, two ounces of sugar, and a little suit. Place a dish over some hot ashes. then pour in the ingredients well mixed together, and as soon as the cream thick- ens, glaze it, and serve. Cream (Maiden).—Take the whites of ten eggs, whip them to a froth ; put them into a saucepan, with milk, orange-flower water, and sugar. Set a plate over a stove, put in a little cinnamon, beat up your cream well, and pour it into the plate. Then brown it with a redhot shovel, and serve. Cream au Naturel.*—Take some fresh thin cream, and put it in a bowl, on ice, to cool it; add to it powder sugar, and serve it. Cream Pancakes. — Put the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with two ounces of sugar, and a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg; mix the whole well together, and then fry them very carefully. Cream Putissiere.—Put a pint of cream and the same of milk on the fire, stirring constantly till it boils; then add two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and rind of a lemon ; when the cream is sufficiently fla- voured with the peel, beat up the yolks of eight eggs, mix them with the cream, and continue to stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon. As soon as it is very thick pour it into a sieve,- and press it through with the spoon, and then set it by for use. More eggs must be added if not thick enough for your purpose. Cream Putissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs and two spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, mix them together with a spa- tula ; add, a little at a time, three glasses of boiling cream and a grain of salt; put the whole on a moderate fire, stirring it round gently until it begins to stick to the spoon; then remove it for a short time, still stirring; as soon as it is of the proper consistence replace it on the fire, and con- tinue to stir it the same way for ten or twelve minutes. After this heat a quarter of a pound of the best fresh lmtter, keep stirring and skimming until it ceases to hiss, then leave it to colour lightly, and when it is sufficiently so, mix it with the cream, and pour it into a pan, in which it must be incorporated with whatever in- gredient may be desired. Cream Putissiere and Chocolate Cus- tard*—Throw three quarters of a pound of chocolate, and a clove of vanilla into twelve glasses of milk ; cover it, and in a quarter of an hour pass the milk through a napkin ; put a few spoonsful of the infu- sion to the chocolate which remains in theCRE 202 CRE napkin, and pour them into a small pan. A ken put three quarters of a pound of flour into a large saucepan, with four whole eggs, and the yolks of twelve; pour the infusion in by degrees, with a very little salt; set it on a moderate fire, and stir it constantly. As soon as it begins to thicken, take it from the fire to prevent its becoming lumpy; add to it half a pound of powder sugar, six ounces of butter, and dry it for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. When it is a little cooled, put the chocolate and six ounces of sweet macaroons crushed. This preparation should be of the consistence of cream pa- tissiere,- if not, add a few spoonsful of , whipped cream ; whip the twelve whites of tlie eggs pretty firm; mix them with the preparation ; then pour it into a raised crust, and finish as usual. Cream Pompadour.—Take the whites of five eggs, and after beating them into a strong froth, put them into a tossing-pan, with two ounces of sugar, and two spoons- ful of orange-flower water; stir it gently three minutes, pour it into a dish, and melted butter over it; serve it hot. Cheam Posset.—Take twelve eggs, leav- ing out two or three whites, take out all the treads, and beat them well into the basin you make the posset in ; add half a pound of sugar, a pint of sack, and a nut- meg grated; stir it on a chafing-dish of coals till it is more than blood warm ; take a quart of sweet cream; when it boils pour it into a basin, cover it with a warm plate and a cloth ; then set it on a chafing- dish of embers till it is as thick as you wish, and strew on some fine cinnamon. Cream of any preserved Fruit.—Take half a pound of the pulp of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat together well for an hour ; take it off with a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or glass salver, with other creams, or put it in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will not do this way. Cream (Rhenish).—Put over the fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cinnamon, and half a pound of sugar; while this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites of eggs, beat them well together with a whisk, till your wine is half driven in them, and your eggs to a syrup; strike it very fast with the whisk, till it comes to such thickness that you may lift it on the point of a knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower water; pour it into your dish; garnish it with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. Cream (Rhenish).—Cut two calf a feet very small, put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, a stick of cinnamon, and a little lemon peel; boil them gently till they are reduced to less than a quart; strain it, and skim off the fat; put it into a stewpan, with a little lemon peel, a few coriander seeds, a little saffron, and two bay leaves; sweeten it according to your taste with fine sugar, and let it boil up ; beat up the yolks of eight eggs very fine, take the cream off the fire, and stir in the' eggs well; put it over the fire for a mo- ment, taking care that it does not boil r strain it through a sieve, put in a gill of Rhenish wine; stir it till it is half cold, then put it into moulds; when it is cold, turn it out into a dish, and garnish accord- ing to taste. Cream (Royal) Ices.—Take any quan- tity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in proportion (that is, four yolks of eggs to every pint of cream) ; put a little lialf- pounded coriander, cinnamon, orange, or lemon peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and set it on the fire till it nearly boils ; then pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. Cream Sabaione a Vltalienne.*—Take the yolks of twelve new-laid eggs, four glasses of Madeira, six ounces of lump sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over a quick fire, milling it the same as you would chocolate, till the whole sauce- pan is filled with froth ; then serve the cream, as quickly as possible, in custard or jelly glasses. Cream Sack.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonsful of white wine, sugar, and lemon peel; stir it over a gentle fire till it becomes as thick ns rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses with long pieces of dry toast. Cream (Sage).—Tnko two quarts of cream, boil it well; then put to it halt a pint of the juice of red sage, a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pound of sugar. Cream Sauce*—Put into a stewpan a little butter, a little parsley, a few green onions, and shalots, all cut small; add ono clove of garlic whole; turn the sauce a few times over the fire; then add some flour, and moisten with cream or milk ; let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, strain oft’ the sauce, and when you want203 CRE CRE it for use, put in a little butter, some parsley just scalded and chopped line, salt, whole pepper ; then thicken the sauce over the lire. This maybe used with all kinds of dishes that are done white. Cream Sauce.—Put a dozen line white ! mushrooms into a stewpan, with two or three stalks of parsley, a bit of butter, and a little salt; stir them over a moderate fire, and when the butter begins to fry and look clear, shake in a little flour, but be careful not to make it too thick ; then add some good consomme, and reduce it to the 1 thickness of bichamelle sauce ; then add cream, and pass it through a tammy. Cream Sauce.*—Put into a saucepan a j quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of parsley, and the same of scallions, both chopped ; small; a pinch of salt, a little coarse pep- per, and a nutmeg grated ; mix these well, and then add a glass of cream or milk : set it on the fire, and stir it till it boils ; if it be too thick, add a little more cream; this sauce should boil and be kept stirring for a quarter of an hour. Cream ( White) Sherbet.*—Put the yolks of six eggs, and a dessert-spoonful of | orange-flower water or crisped orange flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; then pass it through a sieve, add to it three quarters of a pound of pow- der sugar, and as soon as it is perfectly dissolved, pour the whole into a sorbetiere, \ which place in an ice-pail, and proceed to i cool it as directed. See Sherbet. Cream Snow.—Mix a quart of cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten it with sugar and rose water, and strain them ; then beat up the cream with a bun- dle of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; and as the snow rises take it up with a Spoon in the cullender, that’the liquid part may run out: when you have taken off as much of the snow as you please, boil the ■rest of the cream, with a stick of cinna- mon, some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; boil it till it is thick ; strain it, and when it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your snow upon it. CnEAM Snow*—lake a pint of fresh cream, and mix with it eight spoonsful of powder sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, or any other aromatic ingredient you liko better; whip it, and remove the froth or snow in the usual way. This cream may be co- loured according to your fancy, with snf- Iron, carmine, or indigo. Cream (Spanish).—Take three spoonsful of rice flour, sifted very fine, the yolks of three eggs, three spoonsful of orange- flower water, and mix them well together; then put to it one pint of cream; set it on a good fire ; keep it stirring till it is of a proper tliickness, and then pour it into cups. Cream Sweetmeat. — Take some good cream, and slice some preserved peaches, apricots, or plums, into it; sweeten the cream with fine sugar, or with the syrup the fruit was preserved in ; mix all well together, and put into your basin. Cream (Syrup of)—May be jweserved the same as cream (see receipt for keeping- cream), in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream; keep it in a cool place for two or three hours ; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful in voyages. Cream Tart.—Put into a stewpan two spoonsful of tine flour, with the yolks of six eggs, reserving the whites of them.; Mix the flour in a quart of milk, and season’ it with sugar and a stick of cinnamon J keep it stirring with a ladle, and put in a good lump of sugar; the cream being half done, put in some grated lemon peel, some preserved lemon peel, shred small, and some bitter-ahnoncl biscuits; let the whole he thoroughly done; when ready, let it be cold, then put an under crust of puff pastd in a baking-pan, with a border of paste, and put your cream over it; mix it with some orange-flower water, and the whites of eggs, beat up to a froth : take care not to over-fill your custard; and let it be done, either in the oven, or under the covet of a baking-pan, with fire under and over. When ready, and glazed with sugar, serve' it up hot. Cream Taffaty.—Beat the whites of eight eggs with rose water, to a froth; put them into a quart of thick cream, skimming it as it it rises ; boil it, and keep it conti- nually stirring. Then having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs, take your cream off the fire, and slip in the eggs; stir them in. Sweeten with sugar. Cream Toast.—Take a pound of French rolls, slice them, crumb and crust, as thick as your finger; lay them in a silver dish ; put to them half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pint of milk; then strew sugar and beaten cinnamon overthem ; turn them often till they are soaked tender, but not so tender but you may turn them withoutCRE CRE 204 breaking; then take them from the cream V'ith a slice or skimmer; break three or four raw eggs; turn the slices of bread in the eggs, and fry them in clarified butter, till they are of a good brown colour, taking great care not to burn or black them ; scrape a little sugar round them. Drain tliem well irom the butter in which they were fried, and serve them hot for a second course. Cream lourte a I’Anglaise.*—Prepare a crust in the usual way, and fill it with a pretty firm cream patissiere, mixed with two ounces of raisins, stoned, an ounce of ce- drat, cut into dice, a little crisped orange flower, the rind of a lemon, grated on some •sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg-, grated, and half a glass of white wine. When filled, bake it like other tourtes, and serve it hot. Cream Tourte with Spinach.*—Wash and blanch about two bandsful of spinach; chop it very small, and put it into a sauce- pan, with three ounces of butter; stir it over a moderate fire, and when all the water is evaporated, add four spoonsful of cream patissiere, half a glass of double cream, three ounces of powder sugar, two of bitter macaroons crushed, a little crisped orange flower, and a grain of salt. Mix these ingredients together well, and pour it into a crust prepared in the usual way; mask the top of the cream with filberts, blanched and mixed with a spoonful of powder sugar. Bake, and serve it hot. _ Cream au Vin.*—Mix the yolks of eight eggs with a proper quantity of powder sugar; to which add by degrees a bottle of Frontignae, or any other sweet and aromatic wine; stir it constantly; put into the bain-marie, and keep itstirrino- until the cream is set, and sufliciently done. Cream ( White or Natural').—Take a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and a bit of sugar; boil them together till they are reduced to one third, and when the milk is sufliciently cool that you can bear pur finger in it, dilute a little rennet with water, in a spoon; mix it well with the cream, and strain the whole through a sieve; then take the dish in which you intend serving, and set it over some hot cinders ; pour in the cream ; cover it with a lid that will admit fire upon it; and when the cream is set, put it in a place to cool. Serve cold. Cream ( Whipped).—Take a pint of thick cream, put it in a basin or stewpan, and beat it up with a whisk to a strong froth, then mix it in a little powder sugar, and arange-flower water; serve it in a small basket made with paste, and garnish round with sweet rusks. If your cream should not soon froth, as sometimes it will not, be careful that you do not beat it to butter. Cream ( Whipped).*—Put into a pan a quart of good double cream, which has been kept for two hours in pounded ice ; add to it a little gum dragon in powder, i and whisk the cream for at least a quarter of an hour, when it will have become properly frothed. Lay it on a napkin to I drain thoroughly, and then mix it care- fully with six ounces of powder sugar ; and the instant before you send it to table add to it whatever you intend to flavour it with. Serve your cream in a raised tart-crust, or iced vol au vent, and orna- mented with a sultane; or it may be placed on layers of almond paste, or simply in a silver dish. Cream (Whipped).*—Put some good cream, with a proportionate quantity of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan; whip it to a froth, with an osier whisk ; as the froth rises, let it stand an instant, and then take it off gently with a skimmer, and place it on a dish like a pyramid; garnish your dish with green lemon or orange chips, and serve it. Cream (Whipped) au Caramel.*— Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and when it has required the proper reddish- yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass of boiling water, over hot ashes; after which, it must be reduced to a rather thick syrup. When cold, mix it with the whipped cream in the usual way. See Whipped Cream. To this may be added the flavour of any ingredients you desire, by putting a small quantity of it into the sugar, the moment it attains its proper colour : for instance, a spoonful of starred anise, orange flowers, pralinees, a dozen of bitter macaroons, or filberts, crushed, &c. Cream (Whipped) Printaniere.* — Dilute two spoonsful of essence of spi- nach, strained by degrees, with half a glass of Italian maraschino; pour this mixture, and six ounces of powder sugar, to whipped cream as directed. See Whipped Cream. Instead of the liqueur, the zests of a couplo of lemons, a sweet or Seville orange, or cedrat rasped on sugar, may be used. Strawberries or raspberries may also bo placed here and there on the cream. Cream (Whipped) aui Quatre Zestcs*—CRO 205 CRO Take six ounces of lump sugar, and rasp on it the fourth part of the zest of a sweet, the same of a Seville orange, the same of a cedrat, and half the zest of a lemon; scrape the sugar in the usual way, and then mix it with your cream, whipped as directed. See Whipped Cream. CROQUE en Bouches*—These are large pieces of ornamental confectionary, formed of various materials, as gimblettes, croquig- noles, genoises, &c., or of oranges cut into quarters, chestnuts, green nuts, &c., arranged within moulds according to fancy, and cemented together with boiled sugar. Croquettes of boiled Meat.*—Mince some boiled meat very small; add to it : some sausage meat, mashed potatoes, crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, and sweet herbs; make them into a paste, and form it into little balls ; roll them in very fine raspings, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them with sauce j piquante. Croquettes of Fowl*—Detach all the meat from the.bones, mince it, put it into i some sauce tournee or bechamel with a few fine herbs chopped and washed in a cloth, i pepper and salt; reduce it on a quick fire I till very thick, keep it continually stirred ! to prevent its burning, stir in two yolks of eggs, and set by to cool: then roll it ) into balls or the shape of pears or corks, dip them into eggs well beaten, then into : fine bread crumbs twice over, and fry them. Serve very hot with fried parsley. Ham or tongue may sometimes be added ; in fact they may be made of a great variety of things, according to taste. Croquettes d la d’Estrces— Use the best puff paste ; roll it pretty thin, and cut it into different shapes, as fancy leads; bake it, and dress each piece upon a dish, in a handsome manner ; rub them ■with a little caramel, to make them stick as you place them; then put some currant jelly all over the top, and make what flower or design you please, with nonpa- reils of different colours, round it. Croquettes a la Parisienne.*—Take a stick of vanilla, pound it with two ounces of sugar, and sift both through a Bilk sieve ; mix it with seven ounces of sugar, well dried and pounded, and half a pound of fine sifted flour; then stir in the whites of four eggs, whipped firm, and work the whole together for some minutes. Heat two large baking-plates of copper, rub them over lightly with virgin wax ; when they are cold, take a spoonful of the preparation, and lay it on the plate the same as the spoon-biscuits, taking care to lay them three quarters of an inch apart; when both plates are full, place them on stools, in the oven or stove ” close the top, and lay embers over it, so that the croquettes may be as far removed from the fire as possible ; let them remain in this state all night; the next mornin°* put them into a moderate oven, and bake them fifteen or twenty minutes; they should then quit the plate easily, and be of a clear reddish colour; remove them from the plates whilst hot. The croquettes may be flavoured accord- ing to your fancy. CROQUIGNOLES d la Chartres.*— Blanch and pound five ounces of sweet and three of bitter almonds, with a little white of egg; put half a pound of flour on your slab, make a hole in the middle, in which put the almonds, with half a pound of powder sugar, four yolks of eSos> and a little salt ; make this into a paste, and roll it into strips about the size of your finger; cut them into square pieces, the bigness of a filbert, and roll them into little balls: place them on baking-plates, rubbed with wax; dorez and bake them in a moderate oven : re- move them from the plates whilst hot, as, if suffered to grow cold first, they will break to pieces. Croquicnoles a la Franfaise.*—Eieak up half a pound of bitter macaroons, so small as to be able to sift them; and having laid half a pound of sifted flour on your slab, and made a hole in the mid- dle, put in the macaroons, with six ounces of powder sugar, three yolks of egos three ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; make these ingredients into a paste, and form the croquignoles of the shape and size of olives; dorez them lightly, and bake them in a gentle oven. J hese must be of a lighter colour than other croquignoles. Instead of macaroons use any other in- gredients you please. Croquignoles d’Office*—Pat into a pan half a pound of flour, a pound of powder sugar, a little crisped oranm; flower in powder, a bit of butter, about as big as a nut, and a little salt; moisten it with the whites of eggs ; your prepara- tion should be pretty firm; put it into a sort of funnel, butter some baking-tins, and push the croquignoles through in tho206 CRU Clio form of buttons, cutting tbe paste with a knife dipped in white of egg; bake them in a moderate oven. Croquignoi.es aux Pralines*—Make a paste like Croquignoles a la Chartres, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut it into two equal parts, On one of which lay pralines, leaving proper spaces between each ; moisten the other part lightly, and lay it over the pralines; press it down a little, and with an oval paste-cutter, an inch and a half in length, and one inch in width, cut out the croquignoles; press the edges together, and finish as Croquignoles a la Chartres. Croquignoles a la Ileine*—Are made in the same way as Croquettes a la Pa- risienne ; but, instead of laying them like spoon biscuits, they should be fanned into balls about the size of a filbert. CROUSTADE.*—Take a loaf of close texture, remove the crust, and cut the crumb round, to tbe size you may require, and about four inches in height; form it to the shape of a cup or basin, and cutting the outside according to your taste, put it into a pan with a proper quantity of but- ter, and brown it; when of a good colour, and very dry, drain and take out the inside, and fill it with such articles as you may require. Croustade (Small) a la B£chamelle.*— Line the number of custard moulds you may require, with a rich puff paste, adding a small quantity of flour; fill them up with the cuttings of the paste, and bake them in a brisk oven of a lightish red colour. In the mean while cut some breast of fowl into small pieces, three quarters of an inch long, and a quarter wide, also cut some very black truffles, or champignons, into pieces the same size, flavoured with bechamelle; place these in the bain-marie, and when wanted, put some of this into each croustade, pour in a little bechamelle, cover them and serve. Observe that the croustades must be opened the moment they are taken from the oven. They may be filled with any other preparation you please. CnousTADES (Small) de Nouille.*—Mix goipe paste a Nouille, with the yolks of twelve eggs, and when sufficiently rolled out, put it into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil a few minutes, and then, having drained it, put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little salt; in a little while pour the paste on a dish, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness. When cold, turn it on the slab, and cut out the croustade of the size and form you may require ; then, having beaten up eight eggs, dip each croustade into it, draining and rolling each, as you do them, in grated bread crumbs; do this a second time, rolling them lightly on the slab to make them smooth, and fry them a good colour in a very hot pan, . Open and fill them with such preparations as you may think proper; cover, and serve them. Cuoutes au Pot.*—Take some crusts of French bread, with very little crumb in them, cut them into thin slices, and lay them in a deep dish; pour over them some broth and pot skimmings; then set the dish over the fire, until the bread is burnt to the bottom, or gratinee; then take three outsides of a loaf, cutting out all the crumb, soak these in some skimmings of broth ; season them with salt and pepper, and set them upright on the gratin; just before serving, drain them well, that tbe potage may be quite dry, and put some broth or stock in a sauce tureen, and serve it. Croute uu Pot*—Take two French loaves, rasp them, take off the crusts, and cut the crumb in round slices, and put them into a stewpan ■with a spoonful of consomme; set the crusts over the fire to simmer, and then fry them in the fat taken from consomme; put the panada in a deep dish, with the crusts at the top; moisten them with the consomme fat, and set them on the fire, to make a grati/s for a quarter of an hour; at the moment of serving, break six eggs over it, and serve it with a clarified consomme. CRUMPETS.—Make a pint of warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, strained into a strong batter, with a suffi- cient quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; then add a quarter of a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter worked up in a little flour, but only flour enough to prevent the batter from being too thin; in a quarter of an hour have the iron rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; pour the batter into these rings, and bake them. Crumi’ets, or Pikelets.*—Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that half milk and half water must be used; and to every half quartern of flour, two eggs must be added; beat the eggs thoroughly. Bake them in rings as usual. CRUST (Short).—Pound, sift, and dtV two ounces of white sugar; then mix it with a pound of well-dried flour, rubbing into it, so fine as not to be seen, three207 cue cue ounces of butter; then put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, and mix the whole into a smooth paste; roll it out thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. Crust (Short) not sweet, but rich.— Mix into a stiffish paste, using as little water as possible, six ounces of butter, with eight ounces of fine flour (rubbing- the butter well into the flour, before mix- ing it with the water), beat it well, and roll it thin. This crust is proper as well as the above, for tarts of fresh or pre- served fruits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. Crust for Venison Pasty.—Work into a paste with warm water two pounds and a half of butter, a peck of fine flour, and four eggs ; work it smooth, and to a good consistence. The paste should be put round the inside, but not at the bottom of the dish ; let the cover be tolerably thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. CUCUMBERS (Blanquelte of).—Pare and stew your cucumbers in a little sauce I tournee and sugar ; then drain them. Re- duce the liquor, and thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, and when wanted for table, put in the cucumbers. ; Cucumbers a la Bourgeoise.—Prepare and dish your cucumbers as a la creme; in I the mean time shred three or four onions very fine, and fry them in butter, till brown ; when so, and drained off from the butter, put them into a stewpan to simmer by the side of the stove, with four table- | spoonsful of consommd, and the same of sauce tournee; when reduced to half the thickness, stir in a bit of butter, and one squeeze of lemon juice ; salt, if required; pour this very hot over the cucumbers. . Cucumber with Cream*—Peel and cut into squares some small cucumbers, then put them into salt and water, first letting it boil up; when the cucumber becomes soft to the touch, take them out of the salt and water, and put them into cold water ; let them drain in a cloth, make a thick- sauce a la creme ; put the cucumbers into it, and serve. Cucumbers and Cream*—Cut the cu- ^ie samB as for Cucumber Sauce, and blanch them in salt and water ; when they are tender, let them drain on a cloth ull no water remains. Put a quarter of a pound of butter, three tea-spoonsful of flour, Si‘lt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; mix the ivhole together, and then add half a glass o cream, set them on the fire and let them 0,1 UP °nce; if too thick, add more cream; put in the cucumbers, and keep it hot till wanted : it must not boil. Cucumbers and Cream.*—Your cucum- bers being pared, and the seeds taken out, out them into dice, blanch, and then put them into a saucepan with a little melted butter, parsley, and scallions, shred small, salt, pepper, morels, and good broth; let them stew for some time over a gentle fire. When done, add the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, and a small piece of butter. To the sauce may be added a little verjuice, if you think proper. Cucumbers a la Creme*—Pare and cut your cucumbers iu small round or oval pieces, keeping them all as near of a size as you well can ; throw them into boilino- water with a little salt in it; when they are soft, take them from the hot, and put them into cold water, and then drain them in a cloth; make a cream sauce, rather thick, into which put the cucumbers, and serve them. Cucumbers a la Creme. — Take four straight rough-coated cucumbers, taste each that it is not bitter; cut them in half, then in quarters, and with a sharp knife cut out the seeds, and pare off the skin, tossing them in water as you do them • have ready some good clarified butter, into which (when well drained from the water) put in your cucumbers; let them fry (turn- ing them at times) till of a fine light colour, then lay them on a sieve to drain them from the butter; when free from fat, lay them in a stewpan to stew gently, with consomme enough to cover them, a very little sugar and salt, and a round paper over the whole; when stewed nearly dry, lay them again on a sieve, then place them neatly on the dish, and pour over them some good cream sauce, and thicken with the yolk of one egg with a little cream, and serve very hot. Cucumbers (Dried).-—Take some pre- served cucumbers, wash all the syrup from them, put them on sieves to drain, then into a stove, one day is enough for them to dry; when dry, take them out and paper a box, and put them in, and lay a paper between every layer of cucumbers. Cucumbers (Essence of). — Take the parings from your cucumbers, and make a yurde of them with a little butter, which must be drained off as soon sis melted, and the puree diluted with the sauce tournie, in which the cucumbers have been dressed, blanquette (they being put to drain). When the j>ur(e is very thick, mix with it four spoonsful of veloutd, with a littlecue 208 cue sugar, and then strain it. Toss up the scallops in it, and add a little thick cream, if not sufficiently white. Season it well, and serve it quite hot. Cucumbers (Farcis).*— Pare three good-sized cucumbers, take out the seeds with a marrow-spoon, and fill up the middle with a farce cuite; put into a stew- pan some slices of bacon and veal, carrots, onions, a little thyme, and a bay leaf, lay in the cucumbers, cover them with bacon, moisten them with stock, and let them simmer for half an hour; then, if they are tender, take them from the fire, drain, and dish them. Serve with a reduced espagnole. Cucumbers au Blanc (Garniture of).*— Pare and cut your cucumbers into square pieces, and then trim them into the form of oyster shells; blanch them with a little salt. When done, drain and then toss them up in a little butter; add some sauce tournee, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs. Cucumbers au Brun (Garniture of).*— Prepare the cucumbers as for blanc, then put the slices in a pan with water, salt, pepper, vinegar, and sliced onions; soak them in this" for some hours, then drain and press them in a cloth; put them into a saucepan with butter, stock, and a bunch of sweet herbs: when done, put a little gravy to them and serve. They may also be fried in grated bacon, in which case they should be moistened with oil and vinegar. Cucumbers au Gras *—Pare and take the seeds from your cucumbers, cut them into slices an inch thick, and throw them into cold water; then soak them in a glass of hot broth, and the same of vinegar ; drain and dip them into batter, and fry them in lard. Glaze them with powder su°'ar as you take them out of the pan. • Cucumbers (Potage oj).* Cut your cucumbers into small oval pieces, blanch them for ten minutes, let them cool, and drain; put some slices of bacon into a stewpan, then the cucumbers, cover them with bacon, and add carrots, onions, pep- per and two cloves ; let them stew thus for half an hour. Put some bread in the soup-dish, and pour over it a sufficient quantity of stock or broth to soak it well, lay the cucumbers on it, pass the liquor through a sieve, take off the fat, and pour it on the potage. Cucumbers Lids (Polagc oj). Pare and split two cucumbers into four parts, and having tuken out the seeds, cut each quarter into round slices, as near of a size as possible; put them into a stewpan with a little salt to take out all the water; then strain them through a cloth, and put diem into a saucepan with a bit of butter; toss them up lightly, but not to colour them, then add a handful of sorrel chopped fine, and a pinch of chervil. Moisten it with some good stock; let it boil for a quarter of an hour. When ready for table, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and a little cream, and pour it over your bread, which should be cut in pieces similar to die cucumbers. Cucumbers a la Poulette.—Pare and slice the cucumbers, and having soaked the slices for half an hour in vinegar and salt, dry them in a napkin,' and put them into a pan noth two ounces of butter ; fry them over a brisk fire, sprinkle flour over, pour a little broth on them, and let them stand till reduced without breaking ; then add a small quantity of chopped parsley, a little salt, the same of sugar, and three eggs; stew all together a little while, and serve hot. Pepper may be added according to taste. Cucumbers (topreserve).*—-Make choice of those which are small, and not too old, put them into jars, and pour over them a brine (to make the brine, take two thirds of water and one of vinegar, to several pounds of salt, according to the quantity of brine you wish to make, a pound to three pints ; put it over the fire till the salt is melted, let it stand to settle, and before you use it, pour it off clear) ; when you wish to use them, take the rind off, and dress them in the same manner as the fresh cucumber. Cucumbers (Preserved).—Split and take the seeds from the number of cucumbers you intend to use ; lay them for three days in strong salt and water ; then put into cold water, with a little alum, and boil them till tender; drain, and let them lay in a thin syrup for two days, then boil the syrup again, pour it over the cucumbers, repeat this operation twice more; then having boiled to souffle some clarified sugar, put them in it, simmer them for five minutes ; the next day boil both up again, when they may be put by for use. Cucumbers (Ragout of).* Let some cucumbers soak for two hours in hal a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a little sa , turn them often, by which means tlm water, which is so cold to the stomach, will be drawn out; after they have been209 CUL cue thus soaked, squeeze and put them into a stewpan with some good stock, a buncli of herbs, and a bit of butter; stew them, and, when done, add a little cullis ; clear off the fat from the ragout, and serve ; or, when you have squeezed the cucumbers, put them into a stewpan with some butter, and, having turned them a few times over the lire, shake in a little flour, and moisten with ^tock ; when it is sufficiently done, and the sauce consumed, add the yolks of two eggs beat up with some milk, and serve them for an entremets, either under eggs, or without eggs. If you wish to make a soup of them, boil some cucumbers once up in water, and then dress them with stock and gravy to give them a nice colour; when done, garnish the edge of your soup-dish with them, and take care of the water they were boiled in to add to the soup. Cucumbers (Ragout of).*—Cut a num- ber of cucumbers, each in half, take out the seed, slice them very thin, and soak them in vinegar, salt, pepper, and sliced onions. When they have laid in this a sufficient time, take them out and press them dry in a cloth ; put them into a saucepan with butter, veloute, and stock, if your ragout is white, but espagnole without butter, and nutmeg if brown; add a bunch of sweet herbs: when done, thicken it with yolks of eggs; put a little lemon juice and serve. Cucumber Salad.*—Peel and cut a cu- cumber in slices, or peel without slicing it, and let it steep for twenty-four hours in vinegar ; then when you wish to serve, drain off the vinegar, and season the cu- cumber with pepper and salt. Cucumber Sauce *—Cut four cucumbers into pieces the size of half a crown and three quarters of an inch thick ; put them into a clean cloth, and rub them well to take out the water ; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, to which put the cucumbers, and set them over a brisk fire, taking care to shake them frequently ; when they are of a good colour, put to them three large spoonsful of veloute, and two of blond; let them remain a short time on the fire. • Another way, brown.—Divide three good- sized cucumbers into pieces nearly0 two inches long ; if very large, quarter each piece ; if not very large, cut them into three, peel them and neutly trim all round : take out the seeds and throw them into vinegar, water, and salt, witli about a dozen button onions : in about an hour, take them out into a stewpan, and stew them as fast as possible with a small ladle" ful of good stock, and nearly as much vinegar ; when drawn to a glaze, add cullis enough for your sauce, simmer gently, put two knobs of sugar in, and a little pepper and salt, and serve. Cucumbers (Stewed).—Slice some cu- cumbers thick, or cut them into halves and divide them into two lengths ; strew over them some salt, pepper, and sliced onions ; add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Sim- mer very slowly ; and before you serve them, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little flour, unless it wants richness. Cucumber Toast *—Make a ragout of cucumbers, well thickened; add to it the yolks of three eggs, dress them upon the crumb of bread, draw a knife dipped in a beat egg over the whole ; cover them with grated bread, and then fry them. Cucumber Vinegar.—Pare and cut in slices fifteen large cucumbers; put them into a stone jar, with three pints of vine- gar, four large onions cut in slices, three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoonsful of salt, three tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper. After leaving it to stand four days, givel the whole a boil; when cold, strain and filter tlie liquor through paper, and put it into small bottles, and use it for salad, or with cold meat. stewpan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the veal with some slices of undressed bacon (gammon is the best), three onions, three bay leaves some sweet herbs, two blades of mace and three cloves. Put on the lid of the stew- pan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a nice brown colour, fill the stewpan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, then let it simmer for three hours ; add a little butter mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick; boil it an hour, and strain it. Cullis.*—Put some mix into a saucepan and when it is warm, add some stock, and a bunch of parsley, young onions, and a little mace to it, stirring it with a wooden spoon ; let it boil for about an hour, takine- care to skim it. Strain it through a sieve° take off all the fat, and the scum which forms at the top, and then set it by ior use. J Cullis for all sorts of Butcher's Meat ou must take meat according to the number of guests; if ten or twelve, a leg P 1CUL 210 CUL •of veal and liana will be necessary, with all the fat, skih, and outside cut off. Cut the leg of veal in pieces of about three or four inches thick, each way, place them in a stewpan, and, then the slices of ham, two carrots, and an onion cut in two ; cover it close, let it stew softly at first, and as it begins to brown, take oft' the cover and turn it, to colour on all sides the same ; but take care not to burn the meat. When it Las a pretty brown colour, moisten your cullis with broth made of beef, or other meat; season the cullis with a little sweet basil, some cloves, and a little garlic ; pare a lemon, cut it in slices, and put it into the cullis with some mushrooms. Put into a stewpan a good lump of butter, and set it over a slow fire ; put into it two or three handsful of flour, stir it with a wooden ladle, and let it take a colour. The flour being brown with the cullis, pour it gently into the cullis, keeping it stirring with a wooden ladle, then let the cullis stew softly, and skim off' all the fat; put in two glasses of Champagne, or other white wine; but take care to keep the cullis very thin, so that you may take the fat well off, and cla- rify it. When the cullis is done, take out the meat and strain the cullis through a silk strainer. This cullis is for all sorts ol ra- gouts, fowls, pies, and tureens. Cullis (« Family').—Roll a piece of butter in flour, and stir it in a stewpan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour. Then put in some thin broth, a little gravv, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper, and salt. Let it stew an hour over a slow fire, then skim all the fat clean off, and strain it through a sieve. _ . Cullis of Fish.—Broil a jack or pike till it is properly done, then take oft the skin, and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs hard, and take out the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a paste, in a mortar, and then add the yolks of e°-gs. Mix these well with the butter, then put in the fish, and pound all together. Take half a dozen onions, and cut them in slices, two parsnips, and three carrots. Set on a stewpan, and put into it a piece of butter to brown, and put in the roots to boil. Turn them till they are brown, and then pour in a little broth to moisten them. When it has boiled a few minutes, strain it into another saucepan, and then put inn leek, some parsley, sweetbasil, half a dozen cloves, some mushrooms, and truffles, and a few breud crumbs. When it has stewed gently a quarter of an hour, put in the fish, &c. from the mortar. Let the whole stew some time longer, but be careful that it does not boil. When it is sufficiently done, strain it through a coarse sieve. Cullis the Italiun Way.—But into a stewpan half a ladleful of cullis as much essence of ham, half a ladleful of gravy, as much of broth, three or four onions cut into slices, four or five cloves of garlic, a little beaten coriander seed with a lemon pared I and cut into slices, a little sweet basil, mushrooms, and good oil; put all over the fire, let it stew a quarter of an hour, take the fat well off; let it be of a good taste, and it may be used with all sorts of meat: and fish, particularly with glazed fish. , This sauce will also serve for chickens, , pigeons, quails, or ducklings, and all sorts of tame and wild fowl. Cullis for all sorts of Ragouts.—Having cut three pounds of lean veal, and half a pound of ham into slices, lay it in the bot- tom of a stewpan, put in carrots, and par- snips, and an onion sliced ; cover it, and set it stewing over a stove; when it has a good colour, and begins to stick, put to it a little melted butter, and shake in a little flour. keep it moving a little while, until the flour is fried ; then moisten it with gravy or broth, of each a like quantity; then put in some parsley and basil, a whole leek, a bay leaf, some mushrooms and truffles minced small, three or four cloves, and the crust of two French rolls; let all these simmer together for three quar- ters of an hour; then take out the slices of veal, strain it, and keep it for all sorts of ragouts. Cullis of Roots. — Cut some carrots, parsnips, parsley roots, and onions, into slices, and put them into a stewpan over i the fire, and shape them round. Take two dozen of blanched almonds, and the crumb ( of two French rolls, soaked first in good I fish broth. Pound them with the roots in a mortar, and then boil all together. Sea- i son it with pepper and salt, strain it offi and use it for herb or fish soups. Cullis (White).—Take a piece of veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin slices of ham, and two onions, each cut into four; moisten it with broth, seasoned with mush- rooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, three cloves, and so let it stew. Being stewed, take out the meat and roots with a skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it stew softly ; take the white of a fowl, or two chickens, and put it into a mortar; being well pounded, mix it in e I211 CUR CUR cullis, but it must not boil, and the cullis must be very white; but if not white enough, pound two dozen of sweet al- monds blanched, and put it into the cullis; then boil a glass of milk, and add it to the cullis ; let it be of a good flavour, and Strain it off; then put it into a small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be used for white loaves, crust of white bread, and .biscuits. CURACAO.*—This is a species of bit- ter or wiki orange, of which the rind is dried, and may be had at the druggists. To make the liqueur called by this name, wash a pound of Curasao several times in warm water; then, having well drained, put them into a vessel with four quarts of brandy, and one of water; let it stand closely covered for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; distil it after that in "the usual way, and drain the Curasao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints of water, mix it with the spirit and then filter it. CURD Cukes.—Take a quart of curds, eight eggs, leaving out four whites; put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little flour; mix these well together, heat butter, in a fryingpan, drop them in, and fry like fritters. Gunns and Cream.—Put what quantity of milk you please into a pan, made rather warm, then add rennet. When the curd is come, lade it with a shape into an earthen pan, perforated, of any form you please. As the whey drains, fill it up, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before it is wanted, it will he very light, but for those who like it harder, it should be made earlier, and squeezed. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, should be put into the dish or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Cunn Pudding (Boiled).—Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, through a sieve; then mix with six eggs, u little cream, two spoonsful of orange- flower water, half a nutmeg grated, three spoonsful of flour, and three spoonsful of bread crumbs, half a pound of currants, •Old half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil for one hour, in a thick cloth well floured. Cuun Puddings or Puffs.—Turn two quarts of milk to curds, press the whey from the curd, and rub it through a sieve; then add to it four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny roll, two spoonsful of cream, and half a nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and two spoonsful of white wine. Butter little cups, or small pattypans, and fill them three parts full. Bake them care- fully, and serve with sweet sauce. Gunn Puffs.-—Take the curd of two quarts of new milk, drain it dry, add to it the yolks of seven eggs, and the whites of two, sugar, rose water, nutmeg, and bread crumbs; make into a paste, cut in what shape you please, fry them in boiling lard, and serve them with a sauce made with butter, sugar, and white wine. Curd Star.—Put a quart of new milk over the fire with a few blades of mace - and when ready to boil, add to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon the point of a small knife. Let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it on a thin cloth or hair sieve, season it with sugar and a little cinnamon, rose water, orange- flower water or white wine, to your taste, and put it into a star mould, or any other form you please. Leave it to stand for some hours before you turn it into a dish - then put round it a thick cream or custard’. Curds and Whey.—Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards of tuikeys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain, rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd than com- mon rennet. When to be used, break off same bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water ; in eight or nine hours use tee liquor as you do other rennet. ™fRA*T Cf;es-—-Pick and wash the cuirants, either white or red; to two Quarts of currants, put one pint of water; when boiled run the juice through a jelly-bag, nutnlPereSS 6W^t0 °ne juice put thiee pounds of sugar; boil up the juice, and strew in the sugar; pour it into glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out,.tlien dry the cakes on plates. (Conserve °f)* —Take the and n„?r 1?°Unds 0f red currants, and put them on the fire in a silver pan to Sd iT’,then P1'ess them^ougli a sieve, and put them again on the fire, stirrimr constantly until you can see the bottom <T 1 e pan; then, having dissolved and boiled tlnee pounds of sugar to casse, pour it on fhe fruit, stirring continually; in a sjlort ****»»> bS,” ss it bubbles; then pour it into moulds. tint 'iirn tl' ^ m""‘ Bruise some currants nut n i th°rou8:hl7 ripe in 1,oiled cream ; Put in beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to212 CUR CUR your taste ; then strain it through a fine sieve, and serve. Strawberries or raspberries may be done in the same way. It is best to sweeten the fruit before you put in the cream, which should be almost cold before the fruit is put to it, else the cream is liable to curdle. CURRANT (Black) Drops.— Procure half a sieve of black currants, and put them in a pan ; mash them well with a spatula, and put them over the fire; let them just boil, and pass them through a sieve, over an earthen pan ; put what jelly comes from them into an earthen pipkin, put it on the fire, and let it boil for two hours : keep stirring it all the time with youi spatula, or it will burn ; put in two pounds and a half of powdered sugar, mix it with the jam, and stir it over the fire for half an hour, drop it on pewter sheets or plates, in little drops, from your knife, and put them into a hot stove until you find that they are quite dry, then take them off with u knife. Currants (Fromage BavaroisoJ lied).— Take the seeds from a pound of very sweet red currants, and a quarter oi a pound ot raspberries; press them through a fine sieve; mix with the juice half a pound of fine sugar, and six drachms of isinglass. Having put it in the pan with ice, when it begins to set, stir it in a plate of whip- ped cream, and finish as directed. See Fromage Bavarois. Currants (to Ice).-Take fresh currants in bunches, and have ready the white of an ego-, well beaten to froth, dip them m, lay them abroad, sift double-refined sugar pretty thick over them, and let them dry in a stove or oven. Currant Ices.—Boil two pounds of red currants a moment with a quarter of a pound of raspberries; rub them through a sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the sugar, which must be very well dissolved ^Currant'ices.—Pick some currants from their stalks, and squeeze them through “ sieve; then take clarified sugar, boil it to a very high degree; add it to your currant juice, and, if you choose, squeeze in the juice of four lemons, it will make it more mellow; strain them through the sieve a second time, put them in the icing-pot, and finish the same as all other ices. Currant Ice Cmim.-Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it X a basin, with half . & £ ^ squeeze in one lemon and a half, add pint of cream and a little cochineal, then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it ac- cording to custom. Currant (Fresh) Ice Cream.—Take one pint of currants, pass them through a sieve, with five ounces of powdered sugar, and a pint of cream, then freeze it according to custom. Currant Water Ice. — Take a large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of two lemons, half a gill of syrup, and a pint of water ; then freeze it rich. Currant (Fresh) Water Ice.—lake a pint of currants, pass them through a sieve; then add to them four ounces of powdered sugar, and one pint of water; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant (Black) Ice Cream.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, add to it the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Currant (Black) Water Ice.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, put it into a basin, add the juice of two lemons, a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant Jam (Black). — Gather your currants on a dry day, when they are full ripe, pick them from the stalks, wash them well in a basin, and to every pound of cur- rants put a pound of double-refined sugar, beaten and sifted; put them into a pre- serving-pan, boil them half an hour, skim, and keep them stirring all the time; then put them into pots : when cold, put brandy paper over, and tie white paper over all. Currant Jelly.—Set on the fire in a sugar-pan a pint of smooth clarified sugar ; when it boils, put in a quart of picked red currants, in which let them boil for half an hour; be careful to skim them well, and at times add a little cold water to raise the scum; when boiled enough, run the liquor through a sieve into a basin, in which you have squeezed three lemons, then put in some isinglass, and set your jelly in a mould in ice as usual. Currant Jelly.*—For this purpose the ripest red currants should be taken, as the white are not so good for jelly; crush them, and press out all the juice into a glazed pan; cover it very closely, and set in a cold place for six days; then wi "Teat care remove the thick skin " then covers the juice, and pour it into an- other vessel, throwing away what remains at the bottom: when the juice is perfectly clear, weigh it, and for each pound take213 CUR CUR half a pound of crushed sugar, put them on the five together, and much scum will soon rise, this must ail be taken off; let it remain on the fire for about an hour ; then try it as follows : Put a small quantity on a very cold plate, and if, when it cools, it becomes thick, and of proper consistence, take the pan from the fire ; if that is not the case, let it remain until that is the case. Pour the jelly whilst hot; they must be quite cold before you cover them with paper. Currant Jelly, Framboisee* — Take seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, three of white, and two of white raspber- ries, press them through a very close horse- hair sieve ; pour the juice on nine pounds of double-refined sugar, broken in small pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, taking care to remove the scum as soon as it appears. When the boilings follow each other very quickly, take out the skimmer, (which sliould be of copper) stir it, and let the jelly fall from it; on quitting the skimmer it ought to fall like treacle. If it does so, it is sufficiently done. This jelly should be rose-coloured; by making it entirely of red currants and red raspber- ries, the colour of the jelly will be red. Currant Jelly (Red).—Strip off the currants, put them in a jar, set the jar in a kettle of hot water, let it boil an hour; then throw the currants and juice into a fine lawn sieve, press out all the juice, and to every pint of juice put a pound of double-refined sugar; put them in a pre- serving-pan, set it over a charcoal fire, and keep stirring till it is a jelly, which you will know hy taking a little out to cool; he careful to take off the scum as it rises, and wheu it is jellied and very clear, pour it into glasses; when cold, cut round pieces of paper that will just cover the jelly, dipped in brandy ; put white paper over the glasses, twisting round the top. Currant Jelly (Red). Another way.— Take one third as many white currants as red (which must have been gathered very clean), put them, stalks and currants, into a preserving-pan, mash them well with your hand, stir them well till near boiling, but prevent them boiling, as that would spoil the flavour; take from the fire and put a coarse hair sieve upon the currants, press it hard down, and with a silver spoon or ladle remove the juice as it rises in the sieve; extract all the juice possible this way, which is by far the quickest and best, and then add one pound of good strong lump sugar to every pint of juice, boil it on a sharp charcoal fire twenty minutes, skim it well, and put into pots with brandy paper over it. Currant Jelly (Black).-—Make it the same way as the red currant jelly, only with this difference, that you may use very coarse sugar. Currant Jelly (TC/u'te).* — Take the seeds from a dozen pounds of fine white currants, and put them into ten pounds o clarified sugar boiled to grand lisse, take your saucepan from the fire, stir the jelly lightly with a skimmer, then boil it up twice, after which pass it through a sieve. Replace it over the fire, taking care to keep the sides of the pan clean with a sponge, so that the jelly does not become coloured by the heat in boiling; skim it, and finish the same as the red jelly. Currant Jelly (Violet).* — Mix two pounds of black currants with ten pounds of red currants, press out the juice, and pour it on nine pounds of fine sugar. Make your jell)' the same way as the rose- coloured currant jelly. Currant Jell 1/ without Fire*—Press the juice from your currants through a sieve ; weigh it, and to every pound put a pound of powder sugar; mix them together well, pass them through a straining-bag, let it stand a little ; then put it into pots, and expose it to the sun for two days. Currant Jelly, Framboisee*—Take two pounds of currants and a handful of rasp- berries ; bruise them well, and rub them through a. new coarse cloth ; strain the juice several times through a felt strainer until quite clear. Clarify two ounces of isin- glass with a little clarified sugar, skim it well, strain, and let it cool. Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, boil it to petit perle, and let that cool also; then mix that, the isinglass, juice of the fruit, and the juice of a lemon together, and having oiled and well drained a mould, pour in your preparation ; set it in ice, and do not remove it from the mould until wanted for table. Currant Jelly Dumplings. — Take a piece of nice rich paste, and roll it out rather thin ; then take somo currant jelly, spread it over the paste, and roll it up; roll it in a cloth, and tie it at each end; boil it an hour, and then serve. Currant Marmalade.—Strip your cur- rants off from the bunches, and soak them in boiling water until they break ; then take them off the firo, and lay them on a sieve to drain; and when they are cold, pass them through the same sieve to clearCUR CUR 211. off the seeds ; then dry them over the fire till you bring your sugar to the fifth degree of boiling, allowing as much sugar as tho fruit weighs; mix all well together, sim- mer it over the fire some time; then put the marmalade into pots. Currant Marmalade.—Talce some ripe red currants, pick them, and squeeze out the juice from some of them; put to it some juice of raspberries; then put to this the whole currants ; boil them gently, and when they begin to break, put in an equal weight of sugar boiled to candy height; boil them together, mash them as they boil; skim them, put in some rose water, and whenitbeeomes as thick as marmalade, put it into pots. Currant Paste.—Well wash some cur- rants, put them into a preserving-pan, bruise them, and with a little water boil them to a pulp ; then press out the juice, and to every pound take twenty ounces of loaf sugar; boil it to a crack, take it from the fire, and put in the paste; then heat it over the fire, take off the scum; put it into your paste pots, or glasses ; then dry and finish them the same as other pastes. Currant Paste*—Pick and take the seeds from ten pounds of fine red currants, crush them, and having pressed out the juice, strain it through a silk sieve. Clarify and boil to cassc an equal quantify of sugar, pour the currant juice on it, set the whole over a gentle fire, stirring constantly until it becomes of a proper consistence, which may be known by observing when the bottom of the pan can be seen clearly; take it off from the fire as soon as that is the case, and pour the paste into tin moulds, which must be placed on slates, or copper plates : smooth the tops with the blade of a knife, sprinkle sifted sugar over, and place them in a stove, where they must remain till next day, when the paste should be turned in the moulds ; sprinkle sifted sugar over them again, and set them in the stove a second night; on the following day remove them from the moulds, lay them in boxes, with white pa- per between each layer, and keep them in a dry place. A sixth part of the quantity of raspberries added to the currants, would greatly improve the flavour of this paste. Currant Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar on a plate, then a quantify of currants, which squeeze through a sieve ; when that is done, add the juice to the sugar, till it makes a paste as clear and thick as you think proper. Currants (Preserved).*—Takethe seeds and stalks from whatever quantity of cur- rants you intend to use (of which a fourth i part must be white currants) ; put them into a preserving-pan, with a glass of water; let them boil up until the fruit bursts ; then strain the juice twice. Cla- rify and boil to cassc some sugar (an equal weight to the fruit) ; pour the juice on it, boil them together a quarter of an hour, and having skimmed it well, pour it into pots. Currants (Bed) preserved in Bunches. —Having stoned your currants, tie sir or seven bunches together with a thread, to a piece of split deal about the length of a finger ; put double-refined sugar, equal in weight to your currants, into a preserving- pan, with a little water, and boil it till the sugar flies; then put the currants in, and give them a boil up, and cover them till the next day ; when, take them out, and either dry them, or put them into glasses, with the syrup boiled up with a little of the juice of red currants ; put brandy- paper over them, and tie them close down with another paper, and set them in a dry place. Currants preserved liquid in Bunches* —For this purpose, either red or white currants may be used, only be careful not to mix them, and choose those bunches which have the largest currants; take out the seeds very carefully with the nib of a pen. Boil clarified sugar (a pound to each pound of fruit) to boule, take the pan from the fire, put in the currants, stir them with a skimmer, taking care that the fruit does not hurst, cover the pan, and give the whole one hoil; skim the preserve lightly, and put it into glasses; do not cover them till the next day. Currants (to preserve them dry).—Stone your currants, and tie them up in bunches; to every pound of currants boil two pounds of sugar, till it blows very strong; dip in the currants, let them boil very fast till the sugar flies all over them; when settled a quarter of an hour, boil them again till the sugar rises almost to the top of the pan; let them settle ; skim them, and set them by till the next day; then drain them, and lay them out, taking care to spread the sprigs, that they may not dry clogged together ; dust them very much, and dry them in a hot stove. Currants preserved in Jelly.—Stone your currants, clip oft the black tops, and clip them from the stalks; to every pound hoil two pounds of sugar, till it blows very strong ; slip in the currants, give them aCUR CUR 215 quick boil, take them from the fire, and let them settle a little; then give them an- other boil, and put in a pint of currant j^lly, drawn as directed, till you see the jelly null flake from the skimmer: then remove it from the fire, let it settle a little; skim them, and put them into glasses, and as they cool, take care to disperse them equally. Currants for Tarts (to preserve).— Put a pound of sugar into a preserving- pan, for every pound and a quarter of , currants, with a sufficient quantity of ■ currant juice to dissolve the sugar ; when it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, and boil them till they are very clear ; put them into a jar, cover them with i brandy-paper, and keep them in a dry place. Currant Pudding.—A pound of cur- rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four ; spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea- . spoonful of ginger, a little powder sugar : and a little salt; boil this for three hours. Currants (Piaiafa of).*—Take two quarts of brandy, two of currant juice, l two pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the same of cloves. Take the seeds from the currants I before you press out the juice ; rectify the brandy; then add the cinnamon, cloves, and juice. When it has stood a month, draw it off, dissolve the sugar in it, and then filter the ratafia. Currants (Ratajia of Black).*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, one quart of river water, two pounds of black cur- rants, three of crushed sugar, one of bit- ter cherries, six ounces of black currant leaves, and a drachm of cinnamon or cloves. Bruise the leaves, and fruit, and spice, and then put them into the brandy to infuse for a month. Dissolve the sugar in the water, and when the ratafia is drawn off, mix the syrup with it; then filter and bottle it. Currant Shrub.—To five pints of currant juice, either red or white, one pound and a half of loaf sugar; when dissolved, put to it one gallon of rum or 1 brandy; clear it through a flannel bag. Currant Syrup.*—Put five or six pounds of red, two of white currants, and two pottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush them, and press the juice through it mto a pan, and place it in a cellar to fer- ment; in a week’s time, pass the juice mrough a straining-bag, and having clari- fied and boiled to fort souffle four pounds of sugar, put the juice to it, and boil them together once ; sliim, and take it from the fire. It is necessary that the currant juice should ferment, to prevent its be- coming a jelly in the bottles. Currant Tart*—Pick your currants from the stalks carefully, and having lined a dish with puff paste, strew powder sugar over the bottom of the dish ; then put the fruit, then sugar, and so on, in alternate layers, till your dish is full, then cover, and bake it. Currant tart is much improved by add- ing either raspberries or mulberries to the currants. Currant (Red or White) Tartlets*— Having taken the seeds from a pound of fine ripe currants, mix them, in a pan, with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; put these into the tartlets, made as usual (See Tartlets.) When baked, make a thin jelly with a quarter of a pound of crushed currants, and two ounces of powder sugar, with which the tartlets should be masked. Currants en Timbale.—Pick and wash some fine red currants, and set them to stew gently in thick clarified sugar; and when done enough, mix with them lemon juice, and a little isinglass, serve in tim- bale moulds. Currant Water.*—Pick a pound and a half of currants, and half a pound of raspberries, both quite ripe ; crush them, press the juice through a sieve, and put to it a quart of water, and three quarters of a pound of sugar; let it stand half an hour, then pass it through a napkin, pour it into decanters, and set them in iced water. Currant (Fresh) Water.—Take a quart of fresh currants, and squeeze them through a sieve with your hand ; add two large wooden spoonsful of powdered sugar, one lemon, and some water; make it to your taste; strain it through a sieve, it will then be fit for use. Currant Water made of Jelly.—Take two large spoonsful of currant jelly, and mix it with a little warm water ; then put one gill of syrup, squeeze two or three lemons in, and let the rest be water; taste and make it to your palate, putting a a little cochinenl in to make it a fine colour; strain it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Currant Wine.*—Take sixteen pounds of currants, three gallons of water ; break the currants with your hands in the water, strain it oft'; put to it fourteen pounds ofCUR CUR 216 with a pound and three quarters of sugar ; over each a few of the currants; dry them fine sugar, strain it into the vessel; add a pint of brandy, and a pint of raspberries. Stop it down, and let it stand three months. Currant Wine (Red or White).*—Take thirty pounds of either red or white cur- rants, and an equal quantity of black currants and small cherries, not stoned, and leaving on the stalks; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them with a large Btick ; then boil half a quarter of junp er berries in five or six pints of water, to which add half a pound, or a pound of honey, to make the juniper berries fer- ment; when they have fermented, mix them with the juice of the fruits. Stir it together during four-and-twenty hours, two or three times, and then fill up the cask with water, and close it. This quan- tity of fruit will make a hundred and fifty bottles of excellent wine. If you desire to make it stronger, put in a pint or two of brandy. Cuit kant (Bluch) Wine.—Take three pounds of ripe black currants: pick and bruise them, and put them into a deep basin, with four bottles and a half of brandy ; add, if you please, some cloves, and a little bruised cinnamon, and set the jar in a place for two months. At the end of that time, strain off the liquor, pressing the currants well, in order to extract all the juice, which put again into the jar, leave it till the sugar is completely melted, and then strain through paper, and bottle off. This liquor becomes ex- cellent after three or four years’ keeping. Cun iiant (Dry) Brioche.*—This is made in the same manner as the cheese brioche ; only that currants (a pound and a half to eight pounds of the paste) are used instead of cheese. The same quan- tity of stoned raisins may also be used, if preferred. Currant (Dry) Cakes.'—Take two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a half of butter, the yolks of five or six eggs, one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonsful of white wine, three spoonsful of carraway seeds, two nutmegs, and one pound of currants ; beat up the butter with your hand till it is very thin; dry the flour well; put in the carraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grated; afterwards put them all into your batter, with the eggs, white wine, and rose water; mingle them well together ; put in the currants; let your oven be prettv hot, and as soon as they are coloured they will be suffi- ciently done. CunnANT (Dry) Funchonneites.*—Take half the quantities of the usual ingredi- ents (see Fanchonnettes), with the addi- ( tion of three ounces of dry currants. When your fanchonnettes are made and pearled, put between, and on each pearl, a 111 single currant (for which purpose take an I ounce). Put them into a gentle oven, paying particular attention that the meringues, or pearls, do not lose their white colour. CunnANT (Dry) Fritters a la Dau- n •pliine.*—Having picked and washed six u ounces of dried currants, boil them gently I; for a minute or two in two ounces of clarified sugar. When cold, put about a quarter of a spoonful of them on each i fritter (see Fritters a la Dauphine), and ! finish as therein directed. CunnANT Fritters without Eggs*—Half |ipj a pint of ale, not bitter; stir into it flour in to make it tolerably thick, and a few cur- u rants ; beat this up quick ; have the lard M boiling, throw in a large spoonful at a j J time. CunnANT (Dry) Gcnoises*—Having B washed and dried a quarter of a pound of I currants, mix half of them, and the peel ndl of a lemon, shred fine, with the usual I preparation. (SeeGenoise.) Finish and I glaze them as directed, with a quarter of' a pound of powder sugar, and a little white of egg; as you do them, strew a minute in the oven. CunnANTS (Dried) Madeleines of*— Prepare your paste in the usual wav, and when it is ready to put in the moulds, . mix with it two ounces of currants. CunnANTS (Dry) Mosaic Tartlets of.*— Wash half a pint of drv currants, and mix three quarters of them with a pot of apricot marmalade; with this fill vour tartlets. (See Mosaic Tartlets). hen baked, glaze them, and strew over them the remainder of the currants, which must be perfectly drv. CunnANTS (Dry) Nongats.*—Blanch i three quarters of a pound of sweet al- ! monds; cut them into thin slices, and put them into a cool oven to colour them; dissolve six ounces of powder sugar, and when it begins to turn red, throw in the almonds, stirring them with a spatula; j pour this mixture on a buttered plate thinner than usual (see Nongats a la Franpaise), and strew over it dry currants and sugar. Finish them in the usual manner, and then cut them into crescents, with a circular paste-cutter, of two inches diameter. HPQCUR 217 CUR Aniseed nougats are made the same way. Currants (Dried) Cream PAtissiere of* —Wash a quarter of a pound of dried currants in several waters, till perfectly clean ; dry them well, and then simmer them a few minutes in two ounces of clarified sugar. Make a cream palissiere (see that article) ; and having mixed the butter with it, add a quarter of a pound of sweet and bitter macaroons, two ounces of powder sugar, and the currants. Raisins may also he used for this pur- pose ; but they must be stoned, and each raisin cut in half. Currant (Dry) Petits Pains *—Fill the petits-pains, made like petits-pains a la reine, with cream patissiere, to which is added, two ounces of powder sugar, and two of dry currants. Then make a glaze with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and half the white of an egg ; mask each petit-pain with this, and strew the currants over as you do them ; dry the glaze in the oven. Currants (Dried) and Cedrat Pudding Anglo-Franguise.*— Rasp the zest of a cedrat on a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, scrape it into a pan, with a glass of Madeira wine, and three quarters of a pound of dried currants : take three quar- ters of a pound of beef suet, six ounces of marrow, both chopped very small, and five ounces of flour; add to them, with five eggs, half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, and half a nutmeg, grated ; mix these ingredients with the currants, &c., and finish as directed. See Marrow Pud- ding Anglo-Frangaiss. Currant (Dry) Pudding.*—Chop a pound of suet, and mix it with a pound of hour, half a pound of currants (well washed), a tea-spoonful of pounded gin- ger, half a spoonful of tincture of saffron, and a little salt; stir in a sufficient quan- tity of water, to make it a proper consist- ence ; tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour; serve it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. Currant (Dry) Sauce for Venison.— Boil for a few minutes one ounce of dried currants, in half a pint of water; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir the whole well till it is pro- perly smooth. Currant (Dry) Wafers*—Blanch and cut half a pound of sweet almonds into very thin strips, put them into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, half a spoonful of flour, the grated rind of an orange, two whole eggs and one yolk, and a grain of salt; stir these ingredients with a spatula very gently, so as not to break the almonds; when well mixed, butter a baking-plate, about eighteen inches long by twelve wide, upon which pour your preparation, spreading it with the blade of a knife, that it may be equally liquid in all parts ; and then, with a fork, remove such of the almonds as may lay above the others. Strew over the whole two ounces of dry currants. Put it into a moderately heated oven for two minutes, and then strew over the currants some crushed sugar, and replace them in the oven till they acquire a clear yellowish tinge on both sides : when done, cut it into pieces two inches square, and while warm, press them on a round stick (about two inches diameter), to give them a semicircular form. This operation should be performed as quickly as possible, that the wafers may not change colour. CURRY Balls.—Beat up the yolks of four hard eggs with a small piece of but- ter; season them with curry powder; mix them with bread crumbs ; add. the yolk of a raw egg, and having made as many balls as you require, boil them a minute or two, before you make use of them. Curry Powder*—Take thirteen ounces of coriander seed, two ounces of black pepper, one ounce of Cayenne pepper, three ounces of cummin seed, six ounces of pale-coloured turmeric, the whole pounded very fine. Set them to dry perfectly be- fore the fire, turning them frequently; mix them well, and when cold, put it into bottles; and if kept in a dry place, will continue good for years. This powder is used to flavour various kinds of meat, fish, and poultry, in the pro- portion of two table-spoonsful of the pow- der to two pounds of meat; the onions must be fried first, then the meat and curry, and when it is a little brown, pour on it two cups of gravy. Another xoay.—Take of Cayenne pepper, grains of Paradise, cummin seed, mace, and ground ginger half an ounce each, a quarter of an ounce cloves, three quarters of an ounce cinnamon, four ounces corian- der seed, and five ounces turmeric of pale colour; dry and pound them well, mix and sift them fine, and put into bottles. This is one of the best Indian recipes for curry powder. Curry (Imitation) Sauce.*—Put a quar- ter of a pound of butter into a saucopan.a little rose and orange-flower water,' a with a tea-spoonful of saffron in powder, five small pimentos, crushed ; make your butter quite hot, and then add five large spoonsful of veloute ; stir the sauce well, and serve it without slamming or strain- ing; a little grated nutmeg may also be added. CUSTARD.—Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well beaten; when the milk tastes of the sea- soning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; then season with a large spoonful of peach water, and two tea-spoonsful of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish your custards to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream. Custards.*—Take six eggs, leave out the whites; mix your eggs and sugar to- gether with some rose water ; then boil a pint of cream, and put in the eggs (the cream must not boil after the eggs have been put in). Stir them to prevent them from curding. Custards (Small).1*—Put an ounce of sifted flour into a small saucepan, with one egg, and stir it over the fire till it becomes a very smooth paste; mix with it six yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, six macaroons, crushed, and a grain of salt; stir it well for some time, and then add ten moulds full of cream, half an ounce of crisped orange flowers, or the rind of an orange, lemon, or cedrat. When your moulds are lined with puff paste, put in each a piece of but- ter the size of a filbert; then pour in the preparation, and put them in a brisk oven; serve them quite hot. These quantities will make eighteen. Custard Anglo-Franfaise.* — Make a cream pitissiere, with a little vanilla in it; and when dried, add of butter, powder sugar, and crushed bitter macaroons, six ounces each, a quarter qf a pound of dry currants, and the same of stoned raisins, two ounces of preserved cedrat, cut in pieces, four drachms of crisped orange flowers, half a nutmeg, grated, a pinch of salt, and half a glass of white wine. Mix in the twelve whites whipped firm as usual; pour the preparation into a raised crust, and bake in the usual way. Custard (Baked).—Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon; when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, little white wine, nutmeg, and sugar to- your taste; mix them well together, and bake them in china cups. Custard of Cream*—Prepare your cus- i tard as usual. (See Apple Custard.) Fasten a paper band, about four inches high, round it, and fill it with a good | cream putissiere, with rather less butter than usual. Bake it for three quarters of an hour; take off the paper, darez it; sprinkle the top of the cream, and colour it with the salamander. Custard Fritters.—Having beat up the yolks of eight eggs, with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy, add a pint of cream; sweeten it, and bake it in a small dish. When it is cold, cut it in quarters, and dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, a little ginger grated. Fry them in good lard or dripping, and when done, strew grated sugar over them. Custard of Fresh Fruit.*—Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line it com- pletely with paste, taking care that ittakes all the form of the mould. Then take a sufficient quantity' of apricots, peaches, plums, or any other fruit you please, and having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, mix the fruit up with powder su- gar ; put it into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. When ready for table, mask it with the syrup and kernels, blanched, and cut in halves. Custard in Preserved Oranges.— Fill three or five oranges with custard; garnish with a little sweetmeat, either wet or dry. This makes a very pretty dish. Custard a la Parisienne.*—Cut fifty sound apples into quarters (pared and cored), and put them into a saucepan, with half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and a pot of apricot mar- malade ; put them over a moderate fire, with coals on the saucepan lid ; let them remain a few minutes, that they may soften, but not break. Have ready a pre- paration of rice, boiled with a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which has been grated the peels of four lemons, a pinch of salt, and eight or nine glasses of milk, and thickened with the yolks of ten eggs. Make a raised crust like the cus- tard a la Portvgaise, in which pour a fourth part of the rice (cold) ; on that lay forty-eight quarters of apples ; over them pour the same quantity of the rice, then the apples, rice, ike., reserving the finestcus cus 219 quarters for the top. Bake it in a brisk oyep, for between two and three hours. When done, mask the top with apple jelly, apricot or currant marmalade, and the crust with apricot marmalade also. Custard (Plain).—Take a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, four bay leaves, and some mace ; boil them all together; then well beat up twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put them into a pan; bake, or boil them, stirring them all one way, till they are of a proper thick- ness ; boil your spice and leaves first, and when tlie milk is cold, mix your eggs and boil it; you may leave out the spice, and only use the bay leaves, or in the room of that, four or five bitter almonds. Custard a la Portugaise.*—Choose about a hundred fine apples, from which select three dozen of the best; scoop out the core, and as you trim them, put them into a saucepan, with just water enough to cover them, adding the juice of two lemons, and two spoonsful of powder sugar; when scalded, put them into another saucepan, I 'with three quarters of a 'pound of powder sugar, the .peel of two lemons, and a suffi- cient quantity of water to boil them : in the mean time, cut the rest of the apples i into quarters, and make them into a mar- I malacle; to which, add a pot of apricot i marmalade, and a quarter of a pound of i fresh butter; pass this through a sieve. The whole apples must be taken from the • fire while they are jret firm. . Make a raised crust, about nine inches ' diameter, and five or six in height; in which put a fourth part of the marmalade; lay a dozen of the whole apples on that, having filled each apple with apricot mar- malade ; cover them with the marmalade (the same quantity as at the bottom), then a dozen more apples; mask them also with marmalade, and so again with the remaining fruit and marmalade. Tie a thick paper round the crust, and put it : into a brisk oven; in an hour’s time cover I the top, and then let it remain two hours ‘ longer. When done, mask the crust with a very transparent apricot marmalade, and tlie top with a clear apple jelly. This cus- tard may be garnished in various ways according to taste. Custard Pudding.*—Mix a pint of cream with six eggs, well beaten, two spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg grated, and salt and sugar to taste ; butter a cloth, and pour in your batter; tie it up, put it mto a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a half. Serve with melted butter for sauce. Custard Pudding.—Boil a pint of thick cream, with a bit of cinnamon in it, and put to it a quarter of a pound of sugar. When it is cold, put to it the yolks of five eggs, well beaten, and stir it over the fire till it is pretty thick; but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold, butter a cloth well, dust it with flour, tie the cus- tard up in it very close, and boil it three quarters of an hour. When you take it up, put it into a basin to cool a little ; un- tie the cloth, lay the dish on the basin, and turn it up. You will break the pudding, if you do not take off the cloth carefully. Grate over it a little sugar, put melted butter and a little wine in a boat, and send it to table. Custard (Small) Soujjlees.*—Put two ounces of rice flour and two of butter into a saucepan ; mix them together well, and add to them a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and two glasses of cream, in which a small quantity of vanilla has been in- fused ; put this mixture over a moderate fire, and boil it like a cream patissiere. Then put to them the yolks of four eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream, and the four whites, beaten firm. Make the paste for the moulds the same as Petits Pdtds a. la Eechamelle, and when half baked, pour in your preparation, and finish them. When done, they should not stand a minute be- fore they are sent to table. These small custard souffids may be made with any fruit, and flavoured with any ingredient you may think proper to use. Custard a, la Suisse.*—Put nine glasses of milk and half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, and when it begins to boil, take it from the fire, and add to it from eighteen to twenty ounces of sifted flour, stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a smooth paste, when it must be dried a little over the fire; in about five minutes put it into another vessel; mix with it six ounces of butter, a pound of Cruyere cheese grated; add afterwards, a spoonful of mignonette, two ofpowder sugar, and four eggs ; mix them well together, and then put in four more eggs, six yolks, and halt a pound of G ruyere cheese, cut in dice. When the whole is thoroughly incorporated, if the paste be not sufficiently moist (it should be of the consistence of the choux), add an egg or two, then whip six whites of eggs firm, and put it in with six spoonsful ot Chantilly cream. PourCYD CYD 220 tliis preparation, while hot, into a raised crust, at least ten inches in height, and bake it for two hours, or two and a half, in a moderate oven. Serve it hot. Custard a la Turque*—Put a pound and a half of good rice into cold water over the fire, and when it boils, take it off and drain it well; then put it into a large saucepan, with twelve glasses of good milk, a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which have been rasped the peels of four oranges or cedrats, and a grain of salt. Put the saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the rice, taking care that none of the grains burst; stir it a little, and, when done, add to it two pounds of dry currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and some spoonsful of Chantilly cream ; after which mix in the twelve whites whipped firm. Prepare the crust in the usual way; bake it in a mo- derate oven two hours and a half; when ready for table brown it with a salamander. CUTLETS (Maintenon). — Cut small neat chops, free from bone, off a loin or neck of mutton, saute them one minute on the fire, on both sides, in butter, together with plenty of fine herbs chopped, pep- per, and salt, and very little nutmeg; butter your papers, dip each cutlet well into the fine herbs, and then into bread crumbs, fold them neatly in the paper, and broil immediately. Serve with a sharp sauce in a sauce-boat. Cutlets en Surprise.*—Take some puff paste, roll it out to a moderate thickness, and cut it into pieces the form of small hearts, in the same manner as Mutton Cut- lets cn Papilloles, lay some apricot marma- lade on them, turn them over, press the edges together, lay them on a tin, and bake them. Cut some common paste into bands so as to resemble the mutton bones ; bake, but do not colour them. When the cutlets are done, dorez them; crush some maca- roons, which sprinkle over, instead of bread; make a skewer redhot, and lay it on the cutlets to imitate the marks of the gridiron. Join the bones to the cutlets with caramel sugar, then dish them neatly. CYDER.—Cyder is a fruit liquor pre- pared by means of fermentation, from the expressed juice of different sorts of apples. The process by which this liquor is formed has much similarity in all the different districts, although there is much diver- sity in regard to the care nnd management which are bestowed upon it. The varieties of apples which are grown and cultivated in the different fruit dis- tricts of the kingdom for this intention are extremely numerous ; the following is a list of the most approved : Styre. Coccagee. Golden Harvey. Red Streak. Golden Pippin. Queening. Cowanne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence called Red Norman, \ ellow Norman, &c. i\Ir. Knight’s new kinds are also highly esteemed for cyder; namely, The Downton Pippin. The Grange Apple. The Foxley, and The Brengewood Pippin. Gathering the Fruit.—Great care should be taken that it is sufficiently ripe before it is removed from the trees, otherwise the cyder will be harsh, rough, and unpleasant in its taste. It should he gathered on a dry day, when the fruit has acquired such a state of maturity as to be ready to drop from the tree, when the limbs or branches of it should be slightly shaken, and disbur- thened in a partial manner of its apples, thus taking only such as are in a ripe state, leaving the others to acquire a due degree of maturity. It is indeed thought best to make three gatherings of the crop, keeping each by itself. The latter gather- ing, as well as the wind-falls, can, how- ever, only be employed in making inferior cyder; tho prime cyder must be drawn from the first gatherings which have been made. The merit of cyder will always depend much on the proper mixture, or rather on the proper separation, of the fruits. Each kind should be collected separately, and kept till it becomes perfectly mellow ; for tliis purpose, in the common practice of the country, they are placed in heaps of ten inches or a foot thick, and exposed to the sun, and air, and rain ; not being over covered, except in very severe frosts. The strength and flavour of the future liquor is however increased by keeping the fruit under cover some time before it is ground ; but unless a situation can be afforded it in which it is exposed to a free current ot air, and where it can be spread very thin, it is apt to contract an unpleasant smell, which will much affect the cyder produced from it. No criterion appears to be known221 CYD CYD by -.vhich the most proper point of maturity in the fruit may be ascertained w ith accu- racy ; hut there is good reason to believe that it improves as long as it continues to acquire a deeper shade of yellow. Each heap should be examined prior to its being ground, and any decayed or green fruit carefully taken away. When the fruit of different sorts and qualities has been kept separate from one another for a few weeks, it will be perceived that some of the prime sorts are in a proper state of maturation ; that the pulp has ac- quired its highest degree of richness ; the kernels assumed their brownest colour; the rind still free from any appearance of i rottenness ; and that they easily yield to the pressure of the thumb : then is the time, and such is the fruit to be employed in making prime cyder. Every necessary utensil should now he got in readiness; the mill, press, tubs, casks, pails, and bowls, well washed, and suffered to dry ! thoroughly before they are employed in the business. Grinding the Apples.—In the business < of grinding the fruit, for this use, into 1 what is termed pommage, several different i methods are practised. It has been sug- j gested by some that each sort of apple i should be ground separately, or, at least, such sorts, in mixture, as become ripe at the same time; but others state that this l practice is that by which “fine cyder, of I different flavours and degrees of strength, 1 is obtained from the same orchard, the ' liquors being mixed after they are made.” It is, however, allowed that, “ in all com- ; mon cases,” the practice of grinding dift'er- 1 ent varieties of fruit equally ripe together, is found eligible ; ns it is less difficult to find the requisite degrees of richness, - astringency, and flavour, in three vari- eties, than in one. And hence it is sup- posed, that cyders made from the juice of mixed fruits, under common management, : generally succeed with greater certainty than those from only one kind. In the grinding, the fruit should be reduced as nearly as possible to a uniform consist- ence, in such a manner as that the rinds and kernels may be scarcely discernable from the general mass ; the operation pro- ceeding slowly, with a free access of air. Preparing the Ground Fruit.—Cyderists do not all agree with regard to the exact time the pommage should be carried to the press; the usual average is from about eighteen to twenty-four hours ; at the end of this time the ground fruit or pommago is carried to the press, and a square cake or cheese is made of it, by placing very clean, sweet straw, or reeds, between the various layers of pulp, or pommage, or by putting it into hair cloths spread upon the vats, and placing them one on another. They are turned up on the sides and corners over the pulp, so as nearly to meet in the centres. They should be laid very even, and ten or twelve may be laid over each other in regular layers, the square frame of the press being raised with them, keeping the pile to an uniform size. Upon the whole, a strong board is placed, wider than the pile, on which the blocks of the press rest. It is of the utmost importance that the straw or reed, where they are used, should be sweet, and perfectly free from any fustiness, lest the cyder be impregnated therewith. Particular care ought also to be taken to keep the hair cloths sweet, by frequently washing and drying; or tne ill effects of their acidity will be communicated to the cyder. To this cake or cheese, after standing awhile, a slight pressure is at first to be given by lowering the screw of the press, which must be gradually in- creased as the cakes become dryer, until all the must or juice is expressed, which is usually completed by the long lever and windlass ; after which, the juice must be strained through a coarse hair sieve, and put either into open vats, or close casks. Fermentation.—Fermentation should not, by too much heat, be carried on too ra- pidly, nor by extreme cold, too slowly'; as, in either case, the fermenting body would be injured; therefore, a certain degree of warmth, or rather impercepti- ble heat, conduces best to regulate this operation. This degree of warmth may he understood to rest between forty and fifty degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer; new made cyder should therefore be put into a cellar according to this rule ; the fermentation will then go on with due regulation. When the liquor appears tolerably clear to the eye, and has a piquant, vinous sharpness on the tongue, then the least hissing noise heard in the fermenting liquor in this state, shows the place in wlpch it stands is too warm, and air must bo admitted. 1 his is tho critical moment for racking the liquor, which is done by drawing off the pure part into open ves- sels, which must be placed in a more cool situation for a day or two, after which itmay again lie barrelled, and placed in some moderately cool situation for the winter. In racking, it is advisable that the stream from the racking' cock be small, and that the receiving tub be but a small depth below the cock ; lest, by exciting a violent motion of the parts of the liquor, another fermentation be brought up. The casks into which the liquor is put, when- ever racked off, should always be previ- ously thoroughly scalded and dried again; and each should want several gal- lons of being full, to expose a larger surface to the air. Having attended to these rules so far, the cyder will require very little further attention, beyond filling- up the vessels every two or three weeks to supply the waste by the insensible fer- mentation, until the beginning of the suc- ceeding March ; at which time, it may be reasonably expected, the cyder will be bright, pure, and in a fit state for its final racking. This should be done in fair weather ; but should the cyder not prove as bright and as good a colour as desired, this is the time for applying some inno- cent remedy; the best method is by putting two pounds of lump sugar into a hogshead of cyder. If you wish the cyder to be of a higher colour than what the fruit gives it, melt a pound of lump sugar in a stew-pan, over a clear fire, stirring it frequently, until it comes to a very dark brown colour; then take it off the fire, and, as it cools, add some cyder thereto, by little and little, continuing to stir it till it becomes a thin uniform fluid. About a pint of this colouring to a hogshead of cyder, is sufficient. Soon after the spring racking, the casks may be gradually stopped, by first laying the cork on the bunghole, mid in the course of a few days forcing it very tightly into it, covering it over with melted rosin, or any other similar sub- stance. Bottling the Cyder.—This should be done in a month after the spring racking, when the liquor has acquired in the cask its highest degree of perfection; then, when the weather is fair, the barometer high, and the wind in a northerly point, let the bottles be filled, setting them by uncorked until the morning; then let the corks be driven very tightly into tho necks of the bottles, tied down with small strong twine or wire, and well secured with melted rosin, or other mate- rial of the same nature. Cvdeh Brandy.—Take very hard or sour cyder (as that yields the most spirit), twelve gallons; distil it the same as other spirits are distilled. Then, witli a gentle fire, draw off two gallons of cyder . brandy or spirits, to make royal cyder. You may distil on as long as any spirits will run, for other uses. Cyder Sweets.—Beat up the whites of forty eggs, and mix them with eight gal- lons of water ; put to these half a hundred weight of sugar, put half the sugar into half the egg water, set it over a gentle fire, and stir it about till it is dissolved; then put in more egg water to keep it from boiling too high : putting in a quart at a time, till all the egg water is used ; skim it as it rises, and when it has done rising, and the sweets are clear, add the rest of the water, and boil it to the consis- tency of a syrup. Cyder Vinegar*—Take about six pounds of sour leaven, made with yeast and rye flower; dilute it with warm water, and pour it through the bunghole into a large cask of cyder; put a large stick into the bunghole, and stir it about well to mix the leaven with the cyder; then let it stand to ferment for a week; at the end of that time you will have a strong cyder vinegar, which must be drawn off immediately. CYPRUS WINE (to imitate).—To nine gallons of water, put nine quarts of the juice of white elder berries, which has been pressed gently from the berries, and passed through a sieve without bruising the kernels of the berries ; add to every gallon of the liquor three pounds of Lisbon sugar ; to the whole quantity put an ounce and a half of ginger sliced, and three quarters of an ounce of cloves ; then boil this near an hour, taking off the scum as it rises, and pour the whole to cool in an open tub, and work it with ale yeast, spread upon a toast of white bread for three days, and then tun it into a vessel that will just hold it, adding about a pound and a half of raisins of the sun split, to lie in liquor till you draw it off, which should not be till the wine is fine, which you will find in January. D. DABS (Fried).—Put oil, rendered lard or dripping, into a frying-pan, sufficient to cover the fish; let the fat be quite hot before the fish is put in ; dry the fish well with a cloth, and flour it; when fried, lay it on a cloth to drain.223 DAM DAM Dabs (Stewed).—Clean the dabs, and cut off the fins; put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover them; put to them an anchovy split, a blade of mace, some salt, a spoonful of lemon juice, and a shalot; let these simmer very slowly till they are done enough, skim them very clean, lay them to drain in a dish, but keep them hot; then strain off the liquor into the stewpan, put to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoonful of ketchup, some pickled mushrooms, and a glass of white wine ; let it boil till it is of a proper thickness ; if there is any scum take it off, and pour the sauce over the fish. DAMSONS (Bottled).—Gather them on a dry day before they are ripe, when they have just turned their colour. Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, cork them close, and let them stand a fortnight; then carefully examine them, and if any of them are mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bottles, and cork the rest close. Put the bottles in sand, and they will keep good till the spring ; or you may bake them in a very slow baker’s oven, or coddle them between hay in a large pan of water. Damsons (Candied).—After they have been preserved, dip them in warm brandy to wash off the syrup ; then sift fine sugar- over them, and set them to dry in a stove or oven. Do this, taking them out three or four times, and sift sugar over them, 1 but do not let them be cold before they are quite dry. Damson Cheese*—Take eight pounds bf damsons, and bake them in a jar till they are tender; then rub them through a cullender, put to them one pound and a half of lump sugar, and let them boil to the thickness of marmalade. Damsons (Dried).—Take damsons that you have preserved, drain all the syrup from them, cover the bottoms of sieves ■*vith them, and put them into stoves which should be hot; change the sieves every day till they ;tre dry, and as you change the sieves turn the damsons, and when they are not sticky nor likely to give, take them out, paper a box and put them in, and lay a paper between each layer of damsons. Damsons (Dried).—Make a thin syrup, let it boil, awl skim it, then stone your damsons, and put them into the syrup ; hod them up once, then leave them in he syrup; make another syrup with some Xe lne^ sugar, with just sufficient water to damp it; boil this syrup till it is candied, then take the damsons out of the first syrup, and put them into the syrup you have just made ; let them simmer in it a little over the fire, and leave them in afterwards, till the following day; then place them one by one on a sieve, and dry them upon a stove or in nearly a cold oven, turning them twice a day. When they are dry, place them by layers into boxes, with paper between each layer : keep them in a dry, cool place. Damson Drops.—Put some damsons in the oven to bake, but not so much as to break; then skin and stone them, and pass them through a sieve; sift some common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, and mix with them ; make it very thick, drop them off your knife on paper, and put them on the stove to dry ; when they are quite dry, turn them on a sieve, and wet the outside of the paper, and they will come oft' easily; put them into the stove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them into papered boxesi Damson Dumplings.—Make a good hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a basin, and put in as many damsons as you please. Wet the edge of the paste and close it up; boil it in a cloth for an hour ; pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round the edge of the dish, and serve. Damson Ice Cream.—Take three ounces of preserved damsons, pound and break the stones of them, put them into a basin, squeeze in two lemons, and a pint of creamj press them through a sieve, and freeze it. Damson Ice (Water).—Take a quarter of a pound of preserved damsons and break the stones ; put them into a basin, squeeze in one lemon, add nearly a pint of water, and half a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich. Damson Jelly.—To eight pounds of damsons, put eight pounds of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil them for half an hour over a gentle fire, till the skins break; then take them off, and set them by for an hour ; set them on the fire again, for half an hour more; set them by again for the same time; do so the third time; while they stand off the fire, put a weight upon them to keep them under the syrup. The Inst time, you must boil them till you perceive they are of a very high colour in the part where the skin ^is broken; then take them oft, set thorn by to cool, and when they are cold, drain off’the syrup, and make the jelly in the following manner: lloil a good quantity of green224 DAM DEE 1 apples, green gooseberries, and quince cores, to a mash ; then strain them through a hair sieve. Take an equal quantity of this jelly and the former syrup, and boil them over a gentle fire together till they jelly; skim it well, and while it is hot, put it into glasses or pots. Damsons (to keep).—Put them in small stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when they are quite cold, fill up with spring water, and cover them closely. Damsons (to preserve) *—Put a quart of damsons, with half a pound of loaf sugar powdered fine, into a deep pot, with a layer of damsons; then strew in a handful of sugar, till you have put in what quan- tity you like ; tie them close down ; set them in an oven or in a pot of water over the fire; let them infuse till they are all melted ; let them stand till cold, then drain the juice from them, boil it up well, and strain it till clear; put it to-your dam- sons, let them stand till cold, put a brandy paper over them, and cover the pot with a wet bladder. Damson Fxidding.—Make a paste, and lay it in a basin ; then fill it with ripe or bottled damsons, cover it with paste, boil it, and when it is ready to serve, cut a piece out of the top, mix with the fruit sifted sugar to the palate, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Damson Pudding.—To a pint of cream or milk, add six eggs, four table-spoonsful of sifted flour, a little salt, a little pounded cinnamon, and whisk them well together. Then take some ripe or bottled damsons, rub them through a hair sieve, add to the mixture a sufficient quantity of the fine pulp, to make it, in substance, a little thicker than batter; sweeten it according to your taste, put it into a buttered basin, flour a cloth and tie over, let it boil for an hour and a quarter, and when you serve, turn it out of the hasin, and pour melted butter all over. Damson Tart.—Make a nice crust, line your dish, put in the fruit, and finish the same as for any other fruit pie. Damsons Whole, ( I bet)-—Take some of the largest and best damsons, and prick them at each end ; boil some syrup on a brisk fire, in a preserving-pan, for a quar- ter of an hour; then put your damsons in, and boil them for twenty minutes; put them in an earthen pan, cover them up with paper (as they boil, skim them well); . the next day strain the syrup from them, i and let it have a good boil; then put the , ■ damsons into pots, and, when cold, put i i some apple jelly over them. Damson 1 Vine.—Gather the damsons on a dry day, and bruise them. Put them into a stein, with a cock in it, and to every eight pounds of fruit, add a gallon of boil- ing water. In two days you may draw it off, and put it into a vessel, and to every gallon of the liquor, add two pounds and | a half of fine sugar. Fill up the vessel, and stop it up close. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months, then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar into each bottle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for use in two months after. DAR10LES.—Put half a quartern of flour upon a pie-board, with half a pound of butter, a little salt, and a glass of water; work the whole together, so as to make a firm paste, and then having oiled your dariole moulds, line them, thinly roiling the paste out; in order to do it quickly and properly, cut a piece of turnip nearly the size of the mould, flour it, turn a pro- per sized piece of paste over that, and then fit that into the mould, taking the precau- tion to let the air out, by pricking it with the point of a knife, press it even all over, cut the superfluous parts off; then use them accordingly, sometimes filling them with bread crumbs, and when baked, empty them, and fill with either sweets or savo- ries, sometimes make tops for them of puff- paste ; at other times, fill with your pre- paration and bake, as circumstances may suit. Dahioi.es for F.mincee of Mutton, &'c.— Line your moulds with plain paste in the same manner as the foregoing; flour them well inside, and fill with bread crumbs; bake them, and empty the bread out; have some some puff paste tops baked ready for them; mince the lean of part of a loin of mutton, put it into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt, parsley, and a little slialot finely chopped, put on the cover, and pass it gently on the fire a few minutes, add a small spoonful of cullis and a squeeze of a lemon, make it quite hot; skim oft' the fat and fill the darioles, put on covers or tops, and serve. Ihese sorts of darioles baked blank as the fore- going, are used for various eminces. DEER (to dress the UmhUs of).-—Take the kidneys of a deer, with the fat of the heart; season them with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; first fry them, and after-DIA 225 DIS ■wards stew them in some good gravy, till they are tender; squeeze in a little lemon ; take the skirts, and stud' them with a force- meat, made with the fat of the venison, some fat of bacon, and grated bread, pep- per, mace, sage, and onion, chopped very small ; mix it with the yolk of an egg ; when the skirts are stuffed with this force- meat, tie them to the spit to roast, but first lard them with thyme and lemon peel; when they are done, lay the skirts in the middle of the dish, the fricassee round it. DENTS de Loup*—Fold two sheets of paper lengthwise, like a fan, then double, and butter the paper, and spread it open. Break two eggs into a pan, and mix with them four spoonsful of powder sugar, two of flour, and the grated rind of two lemons ; i when well mixed, add a quarter of a pound i of melted butter. Take a spoonful of this I preparation, and pour it on the edge of your paper, guiding it along the folds with your finger; then take another spoonful, and do the same, leaving a space between ; each fold, that they may not touch in baking; sprinkle them with sugared ani- i seed, and bake them in a well heated oven; I shake them from the paper carefully, so as ■ not to break them, as soon as they come ' from the oven. DEVONSHIRE White Pot.—Beat up a ’ pint of cream with four eggs, a little salt, : some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of i sugar; then slice very thin almost the ’ whole of the crumb of a penny loaf; put it into a dish ; pour the eggs and cream to it; a handful of raisins of the sun boiled, and a little sweet butter : bake it. i DIABLO TINS.—Pound some choco- late, with a little olive oil, into a stiff i paste, of which take small pieces, and roll them in your hands into the shape of i nuts, olives, &c. either round or flat; strew i over them nonpareils of different colours, and dry them in cases like other sweet- ; meats. DiAnr.oTiNS.*—-Take acold vanilla cream renverste (see that recipe), and when quite cold cut it into dice ; throw these into flour ; cover them well, and fry them a httle in a hot pan ; when tolerably black, drain ; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve f them. Diablotins en Caunellons *—Take six ounces of filberts, blanch and pound them, adding, by degrees, three glasses of boil- Ino cream; then press them through a napkin, to extract as much milk from them as you possibly can, which pour (a little at u time), on two spoonsful of rice flour mix them well; take care there are no lumps ; and having added three ounces of powder sugar, and a grain of salt, set the whole over a moderate fire for thirty or forty minutes, stirring it constantly, when it will have become a firm smooth paste. Pour it on a slightly-buttered slab ; spread it out with a knife, making it about three quarters of an inch thick. When it is quite cold, cut it into pieces about three inches long, and three quarters of an inch wide ; sprinkle them with flour ; roll them round lightly ; dip one at a time into bat- ter (the same as what you use for Fritters a la Parisienne), and fry them in allot pan ; when they are of a nice colour, drain them on a napkin; sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them either in the oven or with a salamander. DISTILLING."—Distillation is the process of extracting the spirituous and aiomatic particles, from various substances and liquids in which they are enveloped, and likewise separating them from earthy and saline particles, with which they are mixed. This process is performed by means of heat; and the vapour bath, water bath, and sand bath, are the three methods usually practised. The vapour bath produces the most mo- derate degree of heat necessary for dis- tilling. A metal, or earthen vessel, filled to about two thirds with water, is set on a furnace, over this is placed the alembic, containing the substance to be distilled ; as soon as the water boils, the vapour rises, and striking the bottom of the alem- bic communicates its heat thereto, which forces the volatile or lighter parts of its contents to rise, and separate themselves xrom the grosser ones. 1 *le water bath is more commonly made use of than the above, being less difficult to manage; and in distilling plants or flowers, which are liable to burn, or are heavy, and require liquid, it is far better than the other. Ihe water bath differs from the vapour bath in this respect, that the alembic is immersed in the water, which instantly communicates the degree of heat it re- ceives. The sand hath is resorted to when a very strong degree of heat is necessary: a vessel filled with sand is placed on the fire, and the alembic completely buried in it; this last process, however, requires the utmost precaution. Glass, or earthen vessels, are preferablo in distilling waters; but if they are uofc226 DIS DRA sufficiently large to contain the whole of the liquid, copper ones, if well tinned, may he employed instead. Earthen ves- sels should he perfectly haked, free from blemish, and previously proved. Great care is necessary that the fire he not too fierce at the commencement of the operation, as the vessels employed are liable to break when exposed suddenly to a strong heat; the fire should therefore he increased gradually. Observe, that when a substance requires repeated distillation, the fire should be in- creased for each operation. Also observe : that the distilled liquid ought to flow from the alembic in one continued, though small stream ; if it come by drops only, the liquor obtained will be but slightly impregnated with the essential oil. The first drops which flow from the alembic are called phlegm, and should not be mixed with the distilled liquid; it is therefore better to place a small glass un- der the mouth of the alembic ; when nearly half filled, remove it, and put the vessel in which the distilled substance is to be received. The various vessels used in distilling ought to be very closely cemented to- gether; the material for this purpose is called lute; and is also used to put over the corks of the bottles containing spiritu- ous liquors. The best lute is made with linseed oil, a small quantity of litharge, to give it dryness, and very dry clay reduced to powder; by beating these ingredients well in a mortar, a thick paste is produced, which is easily spread over the edges of the vessels, and effectually excludes the air. This paste will continue moist and ductile for a long time. Another lute is composed of clay, sand, and cowhair, or hemp; this is generally used to put over such vessels as are liable to crack or melt, on being exposed to very strong heat. Lutum Sapientia- is made of slacked lime, flour, and clay, finely pulverized and sifted; bound together with whites of eggs, beaten up with water. The best method of excluding the air from bottles, is, by dipping the corks in a mixture of white wax and beef suet, in the proportion of two thirds of the former to one third of the latter; and then, when the corks are well driven into the bottles, to cover them with the firstinentioned lute. DOTTERELS.—They are to be roasted the same as Ortolans. DOVES. — The turtledove is distin- guished by a blueish ring round its neck, the other parts being almost white. The stockdove exceeds both the woodpigeon and ringdove in size. When they are fresh and fat, they are limber-footed, and feel full in the vent: but when stale, their vents are green and flabby. DRAGEES (Common).*— The paste for these dragees is made in the same manner as for the better sort, but the materials differ a little : thus to a quarter of a pound of the gum, take either equal quantities of sugar and powder, or one third of the former to two thirds of the latter. When these and the gum are well mixed, roll out the paste until it is as thin as the back of a knife-blade; then take a paste-cutter, shaped like a sugar loaf, with the top taken off, with the largest I end of which cut as many pieces of the I paste as will about two thirds fill the cut- l ter; press these through the smaller end i into paper cases; set them in a warm r place for several days. These kind of dragees may, if liked, be sugared in the ! same manner as almonds. Dragees en Pastilluge.9—These dm- r gees are made of the same materials as the I Superfine dragees; the only difference con- f sists in their forms, which resemble the | bonbons: to make them, it is necessary to I have a number of wooden moulds (pear- I tree wood is the best), on which must be J stamped small squares, with various de- I vices engraved on them. Cut your paste into ! small pieces; press each piece on a mould; I' take off all the superabundant paste ; then ■ dip your finger in water, and with it re- i move the paste from the mould; dry them in cases like the other dragees. Dragees (Superfine).*—Put a quarter | of a pound of the best gum dragon into a pan, with a pint of cold water : cover, and let it stand for twenty-four hours: then take a strong close cloth, about two feet 1 long, and put a part of your gum into it; fold it three times, so as to envelop the gum ; then wring the cloth, by which means the purest gum will be forced through; scrape it off carefully with a knife, and then proceed in the same way, until all the gum be strained; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it about wit a pestle for half an hour; then add to it a pound of double-refined sifted sugar; mix them together well, until it becomes a . ti paste; divide this into five parts, four *.<*■ * fciDUC 227 DUC which must be tinged as follows : Red, blue, yellow, and green (the fifth left white), with the usual colouring materials. Before, however, they are coloured, add to each piece, a pound and a half of double- refined sugar, sifted, dipping the paste in water occasionally, to enable it to receive the additional quantity of sugar. When you mix in the colouring materials, add also a corresponding perfume: as, to the red, rose water, and a few drops of essence of roses; to the blue, oil of violets ; to the yellow, essence of cedar; to the green, essence of bergamot; and with the white, mix a little orange-flower water, and some drops of essence of Neroli. Your paste being- thus prepared, form it of whatever little ornaments you please, such as eggs, balls, turnips (adding green leaves to these), &c., of the white; of the yellow, apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c., of the blue; and so on; rolling them in your hands to smooth them, and make them all quite small; to those which imitate fruits, add tails and tops, cut from cherry stalks, and stuck on whilst the paste is damp ; and with a hair pencil, dipped in powdered cinnabar, tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, slightly breathing on them to moisten the surface. When all are done, put them into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days, to dry. DUCK en Aiguillettes.*—When the duck is about three parts done, according to the directions for duck potle, drain and place it on the dish; then make eight incisions on the breast, four on each side; take a tea-spoonful of shalots shred fine, put them into a stewpan with two ladies- ful of blond, pepper, nutmeg, and salt, boil them together a little while, add the juice of two lemons, and pour this sauce on the breast, so that it may flow into the incisions. Dock (Fillets of) en Allumettes*—Cut the meat off a roasted duck, into long fil- lets, dip them in good batter, and fry them m fresh butter of a good colour; as soon as they are done, strew over them some fine salt, and having fried some chervil for five minutes in the same pan, lay it in a d‘sh, with the fillets on it, arranged like bundles of matches. Dock (Boiled').—Taken nice fat duck; salt it two days, then let it boil slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but melt, the butter with milk, instead of water. Dock (Boiled) a la Franfaise.—Put two dozen of roasted chestnuts into a pint ot rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two small onions, if agreeable, a little whole pepper, and a bit of ginger; then take a tame duck, lard it, and half toast it; put it into the gravy, and let it stew for ten minutes ; put in a quarter of a pint of red wine ; when the duck is done enough take it out, boil up the gravy to a proper thickness; skim off the fat, lay the duck in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Docks (Braised).*—Lard two youn°- ducks, and place them in a braising-pan with a slice of ham, onions, salt, pepper, a bay leaf, and a glass of stock ; close the pan, and let it stand over a gentle fire till done; serve them with their own liquor. Morels, capers, and artichoke bottoms may be added, they must be cooked separately in consommd or veal gravy. Dock a la Bruielles.*—Cut a veal sweetbread and some streaked bacon into dice, and mix them with some mushrooms, green onions, parsley, and two shalots, all shred fine, some salt, and whole pepper - put the whole into the inside of the duck- sew it up to prevent any from falling out’ and stew the duck, with a thin slice of bacon on its breast, with a large glass of white wine, as much stock, two onions, a carrot, half a parsnip, and a bundle of sweet herbs. When done, strain off the sauce, skim, and add a little cullis to thicken it. Ducks (to choose).—Their feet should be supple, and they should be hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a dusky yellow. The feet of a wild duck are reddish, and smaller than the tame - they should be picked dry. Duckling should be scalded. Duck (Cullis of).—Roast a duck, and then pound it in a mortar; then fry some rashers of bacon to a nice brown, and put them into a stewpan with a handful of lentils, a clove of garlic, a few cloves, and some savory, let them all stew together; w len they have stewed some time, pound them with the meat of the duck, and toss them up in a pan with melted lard; putin some veal gravy to give it a pale colour and strain it. ’ DUCKLINGS a la Carmelite.* Lard the fleshy parts of a couple of young ducks, and put them into a stewpan with equal quantities of broth and white wine, a little coriander seed, a slice or two of lemon, and some truffles; cover your pan ' « 2r DUC 228 DUC nnd stew them. When clone, take off the fat, and servo with their own gravy. Duck dressed in different Ways.—Take either a large duck, or two ducklings, which truss like a fowl for boiling; put it into a pot (just about large enough to hold the duck) with thin slices of bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a bay leal; when done, take out the duck, wipe the fat off very clean, and serve with what sauce or ragout you choose, such as sweet- breads, green pease, turnips, chestnuts, olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed greens, according to the season. Ducks (Fricasseed) .—Quarter them, beat them well, dry them well, fry them in fresh butter; when they are almost done, put in some onions shred small, and a little thyme; add a little claret, tlnn slices of bacon, parsley, and spinach, boiled green, and shred small. Break the yolks of three eggs into a dish, with a little pepper, and some grated nutmeg, toss them up with a ladleful of drawn butter; pour this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon them, and Duckling (Fricasseed).—Cut the duck- lings into small pieces, dry them, flour them, and fry them m butter ; then take a little canary, some parsley, nnd onion chopped small; a little whole pepper, and a blade of mace; add to these some sugar butter, and verjuice ; then pick the stalks off from a good handful of clary, make a batter of three or four eggs, flour, and cream, with a little nutmeg ; fry these, and having placed your duckling on a dish, pour the fried clary, &c. upon them, and ""DUCK (Fillets of) and Tnfes.*-lWv- inc cut your fillets, toss them up n a little butter, with parsley and shalots, shred fine. Take a dozen of truffles soak them in white wine, nnd slice them, ” a layer of the fillets into a stewpan, then a layer of the sliced truffles, and so nn nlteroatelv (strewing small pieces of freW butter on L truffles), until all your materials are used ; cook them over a s ow fire till done, when place them in the disli for table; pour white wine and consomme, of each half a glass, into the same stew- pan boil them together for about a quarter of an hour; skim, and then pour it over the fillets. - _ Ttnne a duck, into dice; do the same with truffles, real sweetbreads, breast of fowl, and bacon; cook these over a gentle fire, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, add the yolks of three eggs to thicken it, stir it well, and then put it in the skin of the duck, giving it the form of a balloon or oval, fasten up the ends, and cook it like a fricandeaux over a slow fire ; reduce the gravy that it yields to a jelly, and glaze your duck with it, and add to the sauce consomme, veal gravy, &c. Duck (Hashed).—Cut a duck in pieces, and flour it; put in a stewpan some gravy, a little port wine, shalots chopped fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of lemon; boil this; then put in the duck, toss it up, take out the lemon, and serve with toasted sippets. Duck hashed in different'Ways.—Roast a couple of ducks till they are three parts done, and let them cool; then cut the breast in thin slices, taking care to pre- serve the gravy; the legs will serve for another dish, which you may dress by wrapping them in a cowl with a good farce, and serve with cullis sauce; for the slices you have cut from the breast, cut cucumbers, and marinate them about an hour with a little vinegar, salt, and one onion sliced; then take out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, a little stock, flour, and veal gravy; boil slowly, skim it well, take out the ham, and then put in the duck to warm, without boiling. T ou may like- wise do the same with chopped truffles or mushrooms, or any thing else you may think proper, according to the season. A cold roasted duck will answer much the same purpose for this dish. Duck in Hotch-pot.*—Cut a duck into quarters, and stew it into a small pot, with some turnips, the quarter of a cabbage, parsnips, carrots, and onions sliced (all parboiled), some good stock, a bit of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind left ou, a hunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the whole is done, put the duck into a tureen, and the vege- tables round it; skim the fat off die liquor in which the vegetables were stewed ; add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, which must be served over the duck. Duck (Fillets of) <i hi N a incite. —11ut the fillets from two or three young ducks, about two thinis roasted, taking care to collect the gravy, and put it into a stew- pan ; add to it half a glass of white wine.DUC 229 DUC tie same of veal gravj', or good consonant, Docks an Pore Douillet.*—Lnrd a couple a liver, two truffles, both cut small, salt of young ducks, and fill them with a farce and spices; let these stand over a slow fire made as follows : Chop up the meat of a to thicken ; put your ducks in, and finish fowl, the two livers of the ducks, two cookinsr them, taking' care that the sauce sausages, a little ham, and five or six only simmers the whole time. Ducks broiled with Mushrooms.—The in- side being taken out of a couple of ducks, turn the legs under the skin, and with a knife, divide them in two, by cutting them down the middle; beat them with a wooden spoon, dip them in some good clarified I butter, and lay them on the gridiron over a gentle charcoal fire. The inside must lay towards the fire till nearly done; then turn them on the other side; let them be of a nice brown colour; and whilst they are broiling, every now and then sprinkle pepper and salt over them; when done, lay them on the dish, and pour mushroom sauce over them. Duck with Olives.*—Prepare and dress your duck as in poele; take, the meat of the olives from the stone, like a cork- screw, being careful not to break it, that it may return to its proper form; throw them into hot water, and give them a boil, or put them into a saucepan with four spoonsful of espagnole, twice as much consomme, and a little pepper; reduce this to a third, over a fierce fire; put it to the duck, and keep it hot in the bain- marie. Ducks with Oysters.—Take wild ducks, truss them, make a ragout with veal sweet- breads, mushrooms, truffles, and oysters, seasoned with fine herbs and parsley; ■when it is almost done, farce the ducks ■with it; tie them up well, and roast them; ! sei7e tllem very hot, with a mushroom i cullis poured all over. Ducks with young Peas.— Well roast two ducks, then neatly cut them up all but the backbone, and put them in a 1 Stewpan with, young peas that have been . well stewed in plenty of cream sauce; } snake in a liaison of the yolks of two egg's, with a little cream, and serve tbem°in a tureen or a dish, with a good border of paste. Duck au Pare Douillet*—Take a duck, and put it into a stewpan just large enough fo hold it, with a bunch of parsley and fpeen onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, basil, some cloves, some corinn- ( e.r seeds, sliced onions, a carrot, a par- snips, a slice of butter, two glasses of stock, ami one glass of white wine; then reduce 1 over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, and serve it over the duck. truffles, previously boiled in red wine; mix these with the yolks of eggs, with here and there a little sliced lemon, and a pinch of coriander seed; fasten this in as usual, and roast them. Duck Pie.—Bone a full-grown duck, and bone also a fowl; wash them, season them witli pepper, salt, and a small quan- tity of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl withinside the duck, and into the fowl put a calf’s tongue, pickled red, boiled very tender, and peeled ; press the whole close ; the skins of the legs must be drawn inwards, that the body of the duck and fowl may be quite smooth. If you choose, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat; let it bake in a slow oven, either in a raised crust or pie-dish with a thick crust ornamented according to taste. Duck Pie.—Scald a couple of ducks, and make them very clean; cut off the feet, pinions, necks, and heads. Take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, and scald them. Pick out the fat of the inside, lay a good puff paste crust all over the dish, season the ducks, both inside and out, with pepper and salt, and lay them in the dish with the giblets at each end, properly seasoned. Put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, and let it be well baked. Duck Pie.—Prepare a couple of ducks the same as for roasting, and parboil them; then lard them with large lardons of bacon, and the lean of ham, seasoned with pepper, salt, spice, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred small; make your paste, roll it out an inch thick, raise your pie ; lay all over the bottom of it pounded bacon seasoned with salt, pepper, spices, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred fine; then lay in the ducks, and fill up the spaces with mutton cutlets, larded and seasoned, with the abovementioned sea- soning ; then strew some of the same seasoning over the ducks and cutlets, and lay thin slices of veal over the whole, and thin slices of bacon over the veal; then put in a piece of butter; lay the lid on the pie, and put it in the oven; let it stand four or five hours in the oven; while it is baking, make a ragoAt of mush- rooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, livers, andDUC 230 DUC sweetbreads, tossed up in a stewpan, with melted lard, moistened with gravy; let these simmer over a gentle fire for half an hour, shim off the fat, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham. When the pie comes out of the oven, place it in a dish, cut it open, take out the bacon and veal, take off the fat that swims at the top; pour in the ragm'ct, and serve the pie hot. Duckling Pie. — Scald two duck- lings, clean them properly, and cut them into quarters and put them into a pie upon a good farce, with two slices of peeled lemon over them to keep white, and season the same as for other poultry ; mix two glasses of white wine with some good yullis, and boil it some time together to reduce it to a good consist- ence. Serve this sauce in the pie. Ducks Po'tjles (Sauce Bigaraile—The ducks being singed, drawn, and trussed, as usual, mb the breasts with lemon juice, and lay them in a stewpan with slices of bacon under and over them, and cook them in a po'ele, but do not put them on the fire until about an hour before dinner. When ready for table, place them on your disb, and pour over them the following sauce : Three ladiesful of espagnole travuille, a little pepper, the juice, and part of the rind, of a Seville orange; give it one boil only before you use it. Ducklings en Puree *—Truss a couple of ducklings like chickens, and having made a light farce of white meats and bacon pounded, lettuce, salt, pepper, &c., fill the ducklings with it, wrap them in slices of bacon, and do them in a pint of stock over a gentle fire. Boil some young peas in veal gravy, add to them shred parsley, sweet herbs, savory, &c.; when done, mb them through a sieve, and serve your ducklings with the puree round them. DUCK a la puree de Lentilles.*—Prepare the duck as for poeles, and having laid it in a saucepan on slices ot bacon, cover it with the sauce, and a few slices of fillet of veal, with two carrots, three onions, two cloves, a bay leaf, a little thyme, parsley, and scallions; pour on this a ladleful ot broth, and leave it for three quarters of an hour or longer, if necessary. When done, dish it, and pour either over or under it, according to its plumpness or delicacy, a puree of lentils. . Ducks (Roasted).—Season them with sage and onion shred, pepper, and salt ; half an hour will roast them. Gravy sauce or onion sauce. Always stew the sage and onion in a little water, as it prevents its eating strong, and takes ofi' the rawness of them. Ducklings (Roasted).—They must not be seasoned ; they will be roasted in rather less than half an hour. Serve with gravy and gooseberry sauce. Ducklings (Rolled).—Make a good forcemeat of roasted poultry, cut a good- sized duckling in two, bone it, and lay the f arce upon it; roll it up, tie slices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little stock, with a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves; when done, squeeze the fat gently out, and wipe the duck clean ; serve with what sauce you please. Ducks (Wild).—These birds should be fat, the claws small, reddish and supple ; if not fresh, on opening the beak they will smell disagreeable ; the breast and rump should be firm and heavy ; the flesh of the hen-bird is the most delicate, though the cock generally fetches the highest price. Pick them dry, cut the wings very close to the body, take off the necks, draw and singe them, tmss up the legs and skewer them; and having rubbed them with their livers, spit, and roast them; take them up with the gravy in, and serve with lemons. Ducks (Wild).—The entrails being taken out of the wild ducks, wipe them well with a cloth ; put into the inside a bit of butter rolled in pepper and salt; v\ nen i trussed, spit, and roast them quickly for a quarter of an hour, which will be enough, as the gravy should not mn out before they are taken up ; shake flour and salt over them, and froth them with butter. Put good strong gravy over them, and you may serve them with hot port wine in a boat. Ducks (Wild).—Half roast them ; when they are brought to table slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour over them a little port wine, and squeeze the juice of an orange or lemon over; add some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, cut up the bird, let it remain over the lamp till done, now and then turning it. Duck (Fillets of Wild) d I'Orange. — Take the breasts of four wild ducks witn tlio skins on, and soak them in oil. witn salt, pepper, an onion, and some parsley. About an hour before dinner time skewer and tie them on a spit, and roast them tor half an hour; then cut them in fille *. leaving the skin on ; put these into a nm stock, keep them hot without boiling,231 DUM DUC when wanted, for table, arrange them in a dish, and serve with bigarade sauce under them. Duck (Salmis of Wild).*—Cut ofl' the best parts of a couple of roasted wild ducks, and put the rest of the meat into a mortar, with six slialots, a little parsley, some pepper, and a bay leaf, pound all these in- gredients together well, and then put them into a saucepan with four ladiesful of es- pugnole, half a glass of white wine, the same of broth, and a little grated nutmeg ; reduce these to half, strain them, and hav- ing laid the pieces on a dish, cover them with the above : keep the whole hot, not boiling, until wanted for table. Duck (Salmis of Wild) au Chasseur.* —Cut the meat of two dressed wild ducks into small pieces, lay them in salt and pepper, and pour on them four spoonsful of olive oil, and half a glass of Bordeaux wine ; squeeze over them the juice of two lemons, stir the whole together well, and serve. Duck and Sauer Kraut—Wash and put •two pounds of sauer kraut into a saucepan, with streaky bacon, sausages, and a serve- las, moisten them with rich sldmmings, boil it for three hours, then take out the servelas and sausages, and put in a couple of ducks, properly singed and trussed, and let them simmer for an hour ; then drain them and the sauer kraut, place the latter round the ducks, on it the bacon, servelas, and sausages. Ducks (Scallops of Fillets of Wild).*— Take the fillets of three wild ducks, and : -cut them into round scallops, which should be beaten with the handle of the knife, and then laid in a pan, with four spoonsful of olive oil, and well covered with pepper and salt, lay an oiled paper over, and just be- fore they are wanted, toss up your scal- lops ; when both sides are brown drain off the oil, cover the scallops with a good poi- vi'ade, add a small quantity of oil and le- mon juice ; put some bread fried in oil in the dish, and serve them. Ducks stewed with Fed. Cabbage*—Singe and truss your ducks, pepper and salt the inside, and let them stew very gently lor an hour and a half or two hours, in some good braise that beef or cutlets have been stewed in. Whilst they are stewing, shred a cabbage very fine, wash it, and let it drain for a few minutes on a sieve, put it to stew with a good piece of butter, and some pepper and salt, in a stew-pan very closely covered, shaking every three or four minutes. In case it should get dry and bum at the bottom, add nearly a la- dleful of good stock ; when well done and tender, mix in a small glass of vinegar, lay it on the dish, and the ducks over it; cover it, and serve it to table. Ducks (Tame).—They may be dressed in the same manner os geese, with sage and onion, and apple in a sauce-boat; or you may stuff it w-ith fried sausages or parboiled chestnuts, and then roast it. Ducks with Truffles.*—Singe and truss neatly a couple of fine ducks, and having some truffles stewed with chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms, put a few of them inside the ducks ; spit them with bards of bacon all over them, and roast them with truffles, and serve them with a sauce a VEspagnole, or brown sauce. Wild ducks may be dressed in the same manner. Duck and Turnips*—This dish is pre- pared exactly in the same way as with a puree of lentils, with the addition of five or six turnips in the stewpan, and substituting a ragout of turnips for the puree of lentils, which, as in that recipe, must not cover the duck, if it be very white and plump. Ducks with Vegetables.*-—Take the fillets (cut crosswise) from a couple of roasted ducks, and soak them for half an hour in water and vinegar with salt; then boil your vegetables, whether peas, turnips, cucum- bers, &c., with stock or veal gravy, and when tolerably rich, put in the fillets for a quarter of an hour, then add the juice of a lemon, and serve very hot. DUMPLINGS (Hard).—Mix, as for a paste, some flour with small beer or water, and a little salt; roll them in balls rather larger than egg; when the water boils put them in : half an hour will boil them ; cur- rants may be added ; they are good boiled with beef. They are eaten either with cold or melted butter. Dumplings (Norfolk).—With a pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt, and some flour, make a batter ; drop this in small quantities into a pot of boiling water; they will be boiled in a few minutes; throw them into a sieve or cullender to drain. Dumpling Paste.—Make a paste with flour, milk, salt, and yeast; let it stand some time in a warm place to ferment; then cut the paste into pieces of what size you please, and boil them a good while; let them cool; then cut each into two, and soak them in milk, sugar, and lemon peel, about an hour, and drain and flour them fit for frying; or, you may dip them in oil orEEL 232 EAU molted butter to broil, basting with the same as they were dipped in. DuiwrLiNC Paste Pie.—Make a puff paste with flour, eggs, butter, salt, and cold water; when it is well worked, let it stand some time ; then roll half of it in very thin sheets, and cut it into small pieces ; put them into boiling water with a little salt, let them boil a few minutes, and take care to separate them in boiling ; then put them in fresh water a moment, and drain it out; make a pie of the remainder of the paste, with butter and Parmesan cheese at the bottom; then a layer of the scalded paste, and one of truffles or mushrooms, mixed with butter, then more paste, and so con- tinue till all is laid one over the other ; finish with the butter and cheese, cover it over with paste like all other pies, and let it bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Dumpling Scotch.—Make a paste of oatmeal and water, put in the middle of it a haddock’s liver, season it well with pepper and salt, and boil it in a cloth. DURCELLE.*—Take small mush- rooms, slialots, parsley, and truffles, shred and wash them well, and press them dry in a napkin; then put them in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a pint of white wine, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice, a bay leaf, and a little garlic ; reduce the whole to a jelly, taking care to stir it frequently ; add to it four spoonsful of reduced allemande, put it into a pan, and set it by for use. E. EAU D’ARGENT.*—Take the rinds of two oranges, the same of two lemons, two drachms of cinnamon, broken in pieces, and two quarts of brandy; distil from this in the the bain-marie alembic a quart of liqueur. Dissolve two pounds and a quarter of sugar in three pints of river water, put the liqueur to it, strain, bottle, and finish it with silver leaf, as directed. See Eau d’Or. Eau de la Cote. Take half a pound of the best cinnamon in powder, half a pound of dates, half a pound of the best Turkey figs, and. the zests of four cedrats, put all these into three gallons of brandy. Let them infuse for six days; at the end f that period distil in a bain-marie; from this you will extract six quarts of the liqueur. Dissolvo nine pounds of fine 6ugar iu six quarts of distilled river water, add it to the liqueur, pass the whole through a jelly-bag, and bottle it. Eau d’Or.*—'l ake the rinds of two fine • lemons, and half a drachm of mace, put to them two quarts of brandy ; distil this in a bain-marie alembic, which will afford half the quantity of liqueur. Dissolve a pound and a half of sugar in a quart of dis- tilled water, and half a pound of orange- flower water; put this to the liqueur, colour it with a little tincture of saffron, strain and bottle it. Take a book of gold leaf, some of which put in a basin, pour a small 1 quantity of the liqueur on it, beat it up .ft with a fork, and put a little parcel of it: into each bottle. ECHAUDES.*—Lay a quartern of flour r on a paste board or slab, make a hole in 1 the centre, in which put an ounce of salt,, and a little water to dissolve it, a pound of • butter, twenty eggs; mix the two latter: well together, then the flour; work it: thoroughly with your hands; if it be very firm add more eggs. When perfectly, smooth, sprinkle a cloth with flour, lay the paste in it, and set it in a cool place for: ten or twelve hours. The next day heat: about three quarts of water, and having : cut your paste into small pieces, about an inch square, and having floured each, put: them into hot but not boiling water, shake the kettle the instant after you have thrown them in, and as they rise, if they are firm to the touch, they are sufficiently done, and must be taken out of the sauce-- pan, and thrown into cold water; let them remain two or three hours; then drain, and leave them again for three hours more, and then bake them for about twenty minutes. EELS (Baked).—Skin and clean some eels ; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in lengths according to the depth of the pan ; put them in, let them stand upright in it; the pan should be filled : put in a little water, some salt, pepper, slialots cut small, some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut small; setthemin the oven to bake; when they are done take the liquor that comes from them, put it into a saucepan, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine. Eels ( Boiled).—The smallest are the best for boiling ; they should be boiled in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which must be served up with them and the liquor. Serve with chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eei. a la Broche*—Skin, and rut a large eel into pieces, stick them with small of anchovies, and soak them a pieces233 EEL EEL quarter of an hour in vinegar, with salt, pepper, and small onions ; after that time rub the pieces with butter, wrap them in pnper, and roast them. Lay as many pieces of buttered toast as you may require on a dish, and on each a slice of broiled ham, a piece of eel on that, and serve with anv sauce you m'ay think proper. Eels (Broiled).—Skin and cleanse your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, strew bread crumbs over them, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt. Baste them well with butter, and put them in a drippingpan. Roast or broil them, and serve them up with parsley and butter. Eels (Broiled) d I’Jtaliemie.—If for an entree, choose two moderate-sized eels, take off the skin, wash, bone, and dry them thoroughly; toss them in an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, then fry them of a good brown colour. Serve with a good Italian sauce under them. Eel Broth.—Boil some small eels in a small quantity of water, with some parsley, an onion, and some peppercorns, salt ac- cording to taste; let them boil for two hours. Eel en Canape.—Cut an eel into pieces about two or three inches long, and take out the backbone for use ; make a farce with some of the meat cut into small dice, with mushrooms and carp roes (if any), a little butter, chopped parsley, shalots,pep- per, and salt. Make, likewise, a fine farce, with some of the meat and bread crumbs soaked in cream, parsley, mushrooms chop- ped fine, pepper, and salt, mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs ; cut pieces of crumb of bread to the same length as the pieces of bone, and about two inches wide ; lay some of the last farce upon each piece, then the backbone and some of the force- meat upon it: then some of the fine farce again, laid smoothly over with a knife dip- ped in egg ; strew it with crumbs and small bits of butter ; bake it in a moderate oven or under a braising-pan cover, and serve with any sauce you may like best. Eels (to choose).—The Thames silver eel is generally esteemed the best, and the worst are brought by the Dutch, and sold at Billingsgate; there is a greater differ- ence in the goodness of eels than in any other fish. They should be dressed as fresh as possible, and are in season all the year, excepting during the very hot sum- mer months. . Eels (Collared).*—Take an eel, and cut j* open; take out the bones ; cut off the head and tail; lay the. eel flat, and shred sage as fine as possible ; mix with black pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and salt; lay it all over the eel; roll it up hard in a cloth ; tie it up tight at each end; then set over the fire some water, with pepper and salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades of mace, a bay leaf, and vinegar; boil these with the bones, head, and tail, well ; then put in an eel, and boil it till it is tender; then take it out, and boil the liquor, and when it is cool, put it to the eel; do not take off the cloth till you use them. Eels (Entree of). — Take some good- sized eels, bone them, and cut them into pieces about a finger in length; pass them over a slow fire, in a small quantity of sweet herbs, shalots, pepper, salt, butter, and lemon juice. When they are three parts done, put all on a dish; dip each piece in the liquor ; bread crumb, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve with anchovy sauce. Eels (Entree of).—Take two large eels, bone, and lay them flat; put some light forcemeat, well seasoned, upon each ; roll them up separately ; bind them round with tape ; put them into a stewpan, with a gill of Madeira, one clove, garlic, half a bay leaf, four peeled shalots, a little thyme, and a pint of veal broth. Let them stew till done, then strain the liquor; skim it free from fat; season to the palate; thicken with flour and butter; reduce it to half a pint: put the eels into a deep dish, glaze the tops, and serve them up with the sauce under, and pieces of fried bread round the dish. Eels (Forcemeat of). — Take two fine eels, boil them till they are nearly done enough, then put them into cold water: broil a perch ; when it is nearly done, lay it to cool; take the meat from the bones of both fish, and mince it, and add to them the liver of a cod, minced also; then season them with pepper and salt; add sweet herbs, picked from the stalks, some small onions minced, some scraped bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread crumbs, and a piece of butter; put the whole into a mortar, and beat it to a paste; it is used for fish pies, and adds a fine relish to all made dishes of fish. It may also be rolled up into balls, and fried or stewed. Eel a la Flour.*—Having skinned and cleaned an eel, cut off the head ; fasten the two ends together with a skewer, so as to form a hoop, and lay it in a baking-dish ; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, wity carrots and onions sliced, parsley, bad leaf, and thyme ; do those up together, andEEL 234 EEL then add white wine, pepper, and salt; when they have boiled about half an hour, strain it through a tine sieve over the eel, and put it in the oven; in three quarters of an hour take it out, and place it in your dish. Serve with sauce Italienne. Eels (Fricasseed).—Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end. Cut each of them into four or five pieces, and lay them for half an hour to crimp in spring water; dry them in a cloth, and put them in a pan, with a piece of fresh butter, a green onion or two, and a little chopped parsley. Set the pan on the fire, and shake them about for a few minutes; then put in about a pint of white wine, and the same quantity of stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace. Stew all to- gether, about half an hour ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs, beat smooth, a little grated nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Stir the whole well together, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon; give the whole a good shake; pour it into the dish, and serve it very hot. Garnish your dish with lemon. Eels as Chicken Fricassee.—Sldn one or two eels according to their size ; cut them into pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some mushrooms, a fagot of sweet herbs, and two cloves; let the whole simmer some time, then add half a pint of white wine, some broth, pep- per, and salt; boil on a brisk fire; reduce the sauce; take out the bundle of sweet herbs, and make a liaison with the yolks of two or three eggs and cream; and add the squeeze of a lemon when ready to serve. Eels (Ei-ieci).—Cut one or two eels into pieces, take out the backbone, and score it on both sides. Marinate it for about half an hour in vinegar, with parsley, sliced onions, shalots, and four cloves. Then drain it; baste it with eggs and crumbs of bread, and fry it of a nice hrown colour. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve it with a good relishing sauce. Eels (Fried).—If your eels are small, they should be curled round, and dipped into egg, and then nicely fried. If of a good size, cut them into pieces; season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; flour them ; fry them in butter. Eel (Galantine of).*—Take the skin, with great care, from a large eel; bone, and having laid it open, spread over it with a knife a quenelle farce of pike, on which place some truffles, tongue a I’ecar- late, and gherkins, all cut in small pieces ; lay a little more farce on them, and then roll it into its original form, and sew it up; wrap round it some slices of bacon, and then lay it in a napkin ; fasten the two ends, and sew up the napkin, so that the fish may still retain its right form ; then put it into a fish kettle with a cooked marinade, and when it has simmered in ! them between thirty and forty minutes, let it stand to cool in its liquor: then drain, and cut the eel into eight pieces, seven of : an equal length, and the eighth much longer than tire rest. Put alayerof Mont- ! pellier butter into a dish ; set the longest i piece of eel in the middle, and the others round, and garnish the dish with pieces of jelly, and borders of coloured butter. Eels (to kill) instantly.—Pierce the spinal marrow, close to the back part of tlie skull, with a sharp-pointed skewer. If this is done in the right place, all motion will instantly cease. Eel (Larded).*—Lard an eel along the back with small pieces of bacon ; roll, and tie it up ; put it into a pan, with a cooked marinade ; when it has laid some time in that,co ver it with bread crumbs, and bake it. Eels en Matelote.—Skin and wash some eels ; cut them into three or four pieces; lay them between bards of fat bacon and consomme, enough to cover them ; to which, add a little carrot, onions, parsley, pepper- corns, salt, bay leaf, and one clove of gar- lic ; let them stew till well done, and let them stand in their liquor till nearly cold; then take them out, trim them, lay them on the dish ; to which add a few rolls of very good veal forcemeat, blanched, and pour over the whole a good bechamelle sauce, and a liaison, gently mixed in. Eel (Gros Pate of).* — Take three fine large eels, take out the bones, spread them, open them out on the table, sea- son, and lay over them, to the thickness of half an inch, a farce made in the same way as that for Gros Piiteot sturgeon, with the addition of a pound ot truffles, cut iu dice, and the same quantity of tunny, also cut into dice ; draw the skins over this, so as to give them their original form. Prepare your pule in the ususd manner, and lined with the farce; take one of the eels, roll it round, not very close, and lay it in the p&td ; fill the centre of the eel with a little of the farce, and some whole truffles ; cover the surface with spices and salt; and then, in the same manner, lay on it the second, and on that the third ee. Cover the wholo with a pound of goodEEL EEL 235 fresh butter anil some slices of bacon; finish the pule as usual (see Gros Pate of Carp Roes), and bake it four hours : when done, pour in some melted butter and sweet herbs. Eels {Pickled).—Take some eels, skin them, slit them down the belly, take out the bones, rub them all over with salt; let them lie three days, and turn them every day ; then take them out of the brine, wash them in water, and wipe them dry with a cloth; season them with nutmeg, cloves, jnaee, and a bay leaf: roll them in a collar, and tie them tight in a cloth ; boil them in an equal quantity of white wine and vinegar: when they are fender, take them out of the liquor, and set them to cool: when they are cold, put them into the same liquor again: if there is not liquor enough, boil some more vinegar, white wine, and spices : set them upon their ends while they are cooling, and they will keep their shape much better. Eel Pie.—Skin and clean the eels ; cut them in pieces about two inches in length ; pass them, with chopped parsley and shalots, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon juice, for five minutes ; then put a little light forcemeat at the bot- tom of a deep dish, put the eels over it; cover it with pull’ paste; bake it, and put into it either bechamelle or cullis. Eels (Potted).—Rip open the eels, bone and cut them into pieces; wash, and well dry them; season them highly with pep- per, salt, and nutmeg; put them into a pot; lay on pieces of butter; bake them ; pour off all the gravy, pressing them hard, that none may remain; pour on clarified butter. Eels a, la Poulette.*—Cut your eels (when skinned) into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, two bay leaves, parsley, scallions, green onions, and a bottle of white wine. Set them on the fire till sufficiently done ; then trim, and put the pieces into another saucepan. I hen toss up about twenty small onions, add to them a little butter, flour, and the liquor in which the eels were done, and which must be strained, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions. When done, take out the onions, put them over the eels : skim, and reduce your sauce, and then, if too thin, thicken it with tho yolks of three eggs : keep it on the fire, being careful that it does not boil; strain it over your eels, and when ready to serve lay some fried bread in a dish, your eels on it, then the onions, &.c. and garnish the whole with crayfish. Eels (to preserve).—According to the number of your eels, boil a pint of wine, or more, with the proportion of a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of salt, for a bottle of wine : let it cool, and then trim the eels as for present use; fry them in oil, and a few bay leaves to three parts : when it is nearly cold, put it in an earthen pot, pour the wine upon it, and the oil used for frying with the bay leaves; when it is quite cold, cover the pot with leather or strong paper, and tie it fast. It will keep in a cool place for a great length of time. Eel {Roasted).—Cut a large eel into pieces, having skinned and trimmed it, and marinate it about two hours with oil and lemon juice, pepper and salt, two cloves, two or three whole shalots, thyme, and laurel; then tie each bit to a skewer, wrap it up in paper, well buttered ; squeeze the herbs of the marinade, and baste it with the liquor, adding to it a little melted but- ter : serve with whatever sauce you please. Eel {Roulade of).*-—-Your eels being properly skinned, take off the meat from head to tail, if possible, without breaking; season them with salt and pepper. Make a farce with carp and anchovies; lay this along the eel, and roll them up, beginning with the tail; tie them up. When all are done, put them into a ready-dressed mari- nade, and stew them for half an hour; then drain, and dish them. Serve with mushroom sauce. Eel Sauce.—Cut the eels into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two onions, with all sorts of roots, soak it till it catches a little, then add a glass of white wine, and good broth, a little cullis, three or four tarragon leaves, cliibbol, a clove of garlic, two of spices, and a bay leaf. Simmer for an hour; skim it very well, and sift it in a sieve for use. Eel Sausages.—Prepare the meat the same as in the receipt for Eels en Canape, with this difference, that it must be put into a different form; cut some bits of veal cowl into whatever length and breadth you please, put the pieces of backbone in the farce, and put it into the pieces of cowl, roll them up, and tie them in tho form of sausages ; bi-oil them slowly in a well-buttered paper, and when they are of a nice brown colour, wipe oft' the fatEEL 236 EGG with a clean cloth, and serve with what sauce you please. Eel au SbleiL*—Cut your eels, when skinned, into pieces eight inches long, and cook them in a ready-dressed marinade; when done, lay them on a dish, cover them with marinade, and let them stand till cold ; then having beaten and seasoned four eggs, dip the pieces (cold) into it, take care that all parts are well covered ; roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them. Drain, and lay them on a dish, and serve with sauce piquante. Eels (Spitchcockcd).—Skin and cleanse your eel, slit open the belly, lay it flat, but do not bone it; cut it into pieces about the length of a finger, rub it well with the yolk of an egg; strew over it fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, chopped parsley; rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil it of a nice brown colour. Serve with anchovy sauce. Or you may do it whole, done with the above ingredients, turned round and skewered, then broiled, or roasted in a Dutch oven. Eel (Spitchcoched.)—Let your eel be large, split it down the back, and bone it, but leave on the skin, cut it into three or four pieces, broil them on a gentle fire, baste them with butter, vinegar, and salt; when they are broiled, serve them with butter and juice of lemon. You may, if you prefer it, do them over with egg, bread crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt ; drop clarified butter over, and then broil them : in this case take the skin off. Eel Soup.—To every pound of eels put one quart of water, a crust of bread, two ■or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover them close, and let them boil till half the liquor is wasted, and the fish is quite broken; then strain it off and toast some bread, cut it into dice, lay it in a dish, and pour the soup upon it. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour, rubbed smooth in it, Very greatly improves it. Eels (Stewed, or en Matelote).—Cut in pieces, and they may he either quickly fried in butter, or boiled fast for a short time in salt and water; and then dress with a good matelote sauce the same as carp, adding port wine to them. Eels (Stewed).—Cut your eels into pieces, pepper and salt them, put them into a small stewpan, with some good stock, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bit of lemon peel, a glass of Madeira, stew these gently; when the eels are done enough, which will be in half an hour, or perhaps rather longer, take them out, and the onion, and the lemon peel; mix some' : flour with a little cream, boil this in the> , sauce ; add more wine if there is not suf- #• ficient, and Cayenne; squeeze in some: c lemon juice, put in the eels. Eels (Stewed) a l’Espugnole.—Stew the t If eels the same as en matelote, and dish them the same, but pour over them a good sauce i f| d I’Espaanole ; it will be better for having: j tt either truffles or mushrooms in it. Eel d la Tartare*—Skin and cut the 1 eels into pieces, five or six inches long; , make a sauce as directed for eel au four ; but before adding the white wine and sea- • soning, put some flour; when this is ; strained on the eel, do them up together a short time : let them cool, and then roll each piece in bread crumbs, dip them in eggs well beaten and seasoned ; bread them a second time, and a quarter of an hour before serving, broil them over a slow fire. Pour a sauce a la Tartare into a dish, and place the eels on it. Eels a la Tartare.*—Toss up some car- rots and onions shred, and some sweet herbs bruised in a little butter ; add a pinch of flour, white wine, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; let it boil for half an hour, then put it into an eel, skinned and cut in pieces ; when this is sufficiently done, take them from the fire, and let them cool; when quite cold, roll each piece in bread crumbs, and dip them in beaten egg ; bread them a se- cond time, and broil them over a gentle fire. EGGS.-—There are so many different ways of dressing eggs, that the recipes would almost fill a volume; we have, therefore, given such as we esteem the best, and the most adapted to the English taste. Egos dl' Allemande*—Roll a little but- ter in flour, and put it into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, powdered ginger, and par- sley ; add equal quantities of consomme and Rhenish wine ; let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, then pour it over some poached eggs, and set it over hot ashes for a short time. Egos with Anchories.—Take two or three French rolls, cut them into slices (not too thin), and toast and butter them; over them cross shreds of anchovies, put them on a dish, and before you serve them, lay a pouched egg on each toast. Eggs and Anchories in savoury Jelly. Take ten good anchovies, clean them, andEGG EGG 237 cut them into shreds, and lay them on a plate; poach live eggs in vinegar and water, and as you poach them put them into cold water ; then take a plain mould, and into the bottom of the mould put a little savoury jelly, and as soon as it is set, take the anchovies and neatly cross them on the jelly, trim your eggs very nicely, and with care lay them on the an- chovies, then gently pour in a little jelly nearly cold ; when the eggs and anchovies are well set, fill up the mould, and keep it in ice till it is wanted, then turn it out like any other jelly. Egg for Bulls.—Boil six eggs, take the yolks, pound them, and add a" little flour and salt, and the yolks of two raw egg's. Mix all well together, and roll into halls. They must be boiled before added to any made dish or soup. Eggs (Beaten).*—Take fifteen eggs I leaving the whites of five, strain them into a saucepan, and add to them a quarter of a ■ pound of butter (which should he cut in small pieces), a spoonful of veloute, salt, i pepper, and nutmeg. Set these on the | fire, and stir them with a stick till they ] are done, then place them on your dish, and i lay fried bread round them. To this dish may he added the heads of I asparagus, young peas, cucumbers, &c. ■ These must be placed round the eggs. Ilam, cut into dice, is also dressed with i them in this manner. Eggs (Beaten) in. the Shell.—Cut as many pieces of bread as you have eggs ; take off the crusts, and shape them round • make a hole in the middle of each, bi" ' enougl, to contain an egg laid lengthwise in it. Then take your eggs, break one end ' carefully, and take out the contents, which put into a stewpan, with a small piece of 1 butter, two spoonsful of cream, shred par- sley and scallions, salt, and pepper. Keep it stirring over the fire until properly done ; then, having washed and drained the shells, fill them with the cooked eggs ; lay them on the bread, and serve. " ’ J Eggs dressed with Beet.—Pound a piece of red beet with some beaten cinnamon, ; sugar, macaroons, and a slice of'lemon; then take half a dozen eggs (leave out the whites), a little salt and milk; mix the whole well together, and strain them through a sieve ; put it into a dish, set >t over the fire, and brown with a redhot shovel. Eggs (tohoil)foraSalad.—Boil two eggs or twelve minutes, and then put them into a basin of cold water for a few minutes, the yolks must be quite hard and cold, otherwise they will not properly incorpo- rate with the other ingredients. Rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful of water, or fine double cream, then add two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter; when these are well mixed together, by degrees add a tea-spoonful ol salt or pow- dered lump sugar, and a tea-spoonlul of made mustard ; when these are smoothly united, add very gradually three tea- spoonsful of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till thoroughly incorporated with them; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the salad with °it* Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the bowl, aud do not stir up the salad till it is to be eaten. Eggs au Bouillon.*—Put the yolks of four and two whole eggs into a saucepan, with five ladiesful of consomme, let them, stand till well mixed, and then strain them ; butter your moulds lightly, fill them with the preparation, and "leave them to set. Serve with good consomme reduced. You may prepare this dish with any other sauce you please. Eggs a la Bourgeoises—Spread some butter over the bottom of a dish, cover it entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, on that lay thin slices of Gruyere cheese* then eight or ten eggs, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg: set the dish over a stove to cook gently till done. Eggs and Bread.*— Put half a handful of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a small quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and let it stand till the bread hag imbibed all the cream ; then break ten eggs into it, and, having beaten them up together, fry it like an omelet. Eggs (Broiled).*—Make a small paper case, in which put a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, a little parsley and scal- lion, set the case on a gridiron, and when the butter begins to melt, break an egg into it, add salt, pepper, and bread crumbs; do tins over a gentle clear fire, and pass a salamander over it to colour it on the top. Eggs (Buttered). — Take yolks and whites, set them over the fire with a bit of butter, a little pepper and salt, stir them a • minute or two, when they grow thickish, and a little turned in small lumps, pour them on a buttered toast. Eggs (Buttered)—Beat together the volks and whites of four or five eggs, put a q uarter of a pound of butter into a basin, and then put that in boiling water, keepmarie until the water is evaporated, and 238 EGG EGG make these into a paste, of which form little stirring; it till it is melted; then put the melted butter and the eggs into a saucepan ; keep a basin in your hand, hold the sauce- pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way ; as it begins to warm, pour it into a basin and back, then again hold it over the fire, keeping it con- stantly stirring in the saucepan, and pour- ing into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread, or in a basin, to eat with salt fish or red herrings. Egos au Caramel.*—Take the yolks of a dozen hard eggs, bruise them in a sauce- pan, with some powder sugar, three al- mond biscuits, and half a glass of cream ; eggs ; dip them in caramel sugar, and brown them. Eggs in Caul.—Cut bits of caul large enough to wrap a poached egg within it, with a little ready prepared farce of any kind, minced meat, stewed greens, or onions fried in butter;. roll them up, dip them in yolks of eggs, and bake in the oven about a quarter of an hour in a baking-dish : serve with any sauce you please. Eggs and Cream*—Boil half a pint of cream till reduced to half the quantity ; then add eight eggs, season them with salt and pepper, boil them together, till the eggs are partly hard ; pass a salamander over the top, and serve. Eggs a la Creme.*—Put into a saucepan a little butter, a spoonful of flour, some shred parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, mix them together, add a glass of cream ; when it has boiled up once, pour it upon a dozen hard eggs cut in slices, beat all up together, and serve. Eggs (Croquettes of).*—Cut the yolks and whites of a dozen and half of hard boiled eggs into dice, and put them into a saucepan, and pour on them a cream sauce, udth the addition of a little shred parsley and scallions, stir them well together over the fire, and then set it to cool; when cold, pour a large tea-spoonful on a plate ; form it like other croquettes, roll them in bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them in a hot pan ; drain, and serve them. . Eggs a la Duchesse.*—Boil a pint and a half of cream with some sugar, orange flower, candied lemon peel, marchpane, and burnt almonds, all chopped small or bruised ; whip up the whites of eight eggs well, and then take two or three spoonsful of them at a time, and poach them in the cream ; drain, and lay them on a dish, so as to resemble eggs poached without the yolks. When all the whites are thus used, put the cream i1| on the fire, and reduce it, and as the dish ; : is sent to table, add the yolks to the 1 cream, and pour the sauce gently over:)'! the eggs. Eocs a VEau.*—Put a pint of water, .t^ a little sugar, orange-flower water, and i a green lemon peel; let these boil for ail quarter of an hour, and then set them to > II cool. Break seven eggs into another sauce- pan, and mix them with the water and other ingredients, and strain them into i the table dish ; set the dish into the bain- ■ the eggs are rather firm. Eggs en Filagramme*—Take a pint of 1 white wine, half a pound of fine powder sugar, and make it into a clear syrup with K the white of an egg; beat up well eight I eggs, and pour them through a cullender into the syrup ; a very short time is sufficient to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. Eggs (Fricasseed).— Boil your eggs pretty hard, slice them, then take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of butter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms. Boil this up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of the dish, with toasted sippets. Eggs fricasseed with Onions and Mush- rooms.—Boil your eggs hard, take the yolks out whole, cut the whites in slips, and some onion and mushrooms ; fry the onion and mushrooms; throw in the whites, turn them about a little; if any fat, pour it off; flour the onions, See.; add to it a little good gravy, boil this up, add pepper and salt, and the yolks. Egg Fritters*—Pound a dozen hard- boiled eggs with a little cream, and a quarter of a pound of beef marrow; then > pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter 1 almonds, a little sugar, and lemon peel; I mix these with the pounded eggs, and form them into fritters, dip them into a batter made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon peel; fry them in very hot lard, sprinkle susrar over, and serve. Eggs (Fried).*—Make three thin ome- lets, with three eggs in each, and seasoned with parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper > as you do them, lay them out, and ro them up tight, cut each in half, dip every piece into beaten egg, then into bread i—nEGG 239 crumbs; fry them, and serve with fried parsley. Eggs fried in Balls.—Take a deep fryiugpan, and three pints of clarified butter, heat it as hot as for fritters, stir it with a stick till it runs round very quickly; then break an egg into the mid- dle, and turn it round with the stick till it is of the consistence of a poached egg; the whirling of the butter will make it round like a ball; then take it up with a slice, and put it into a warm pipkin, or dish ; set it leaning before the fire to keep hot; they will keep half an hour, and yet he soft, so you can make as many as you please ; you may serve them with fried or roasted collops. _ Eggs (Frothed).—Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four (set aside the remaining whites) with a spoon- ful of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; fry this, and then put it on a dish ; whip the four whites (which were set aside) to a froth with sugar, and place it over the fried eggs ; bake it in a Dutch oven, or with a high cover fitted for the purpose. Eggs and Gherkins.* — Take some pickled gherkins, and having washed them in several waters, mince them very small, toss them up in a little butter, and then, simmer them in a gravy or o’ood stock. Pound the yolks of some hard- boiled eggs with cream, salt, and pepper, mix them with the gherkins, and set the whole on the fire, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Eggs (Small) au Gras.*—Take two dozen eggs, and boil them till they are hrm, but not hard ; take the yolks and pound them to a paste, with a little flour and some fowl gravy ; dip your hands in uour, take a piece of the paste and roll it in the shape of an egg, but no bigger than a filbert; when all your preparation is used, have ready some boiling water m winch is a little lemon juice and salt! throw in the balls for a minute or two to dishes ’ an<1 US0 ham t0 garnish y°ur Egcs au Gratin. Mix together some bread crumbs, butter, a chopped anchovy, parsley, scallions, and shalot, all shred small, and the yolks of three eggs; nut his on a dish that will bear the fire, set t over a gentle one till the gratin adheres to it, then break eight eggs on it, season Jem with salt and pepper, keep it over mandeV 8uffic,.ently llone i P^s a sala- mander over, and serve. EGG Eggs (Gratin of) with Cheese*—1'ake some grated bread, Parmesan cheese, also grated, a small piece of butter, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg, and pepper; mix these together, and spread them over the bottom of a dish, set it over a gentle fire to make a gratin, on which break ten eaos > sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the surface, finish cooking it, and brown it with the salamander. Eggs with Gravy.—Poach some ego-s in water, with a little vinegar in it; cut the whites round nearly ; lay the eggs in a dish ; pour into the dish some clear re- lishing* gravy. Eggs (Hashed).—Boil eggs hard, slice them, fry an onion, sliced in butter ; put in the eggs, a little good gravy, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Serve them hot. Eggs a l’I nip trials—Take some breast of fowl and partridges, parsley and bread soaked in cream, and pound these to°-e- ther, season them with salt and pepper, add the yolks of four eggs ; spread this mixture over the bottom of a dish, and break eight eggs on it; cover them with bread crumbs, set the dish over hot ashes, and salamander the top. Eggs a la Jardiniere.*—Cut four or five large onions into pieces, and put them with some butter into a stewpan ; set them on the fire, and when the onions are done, add a pinch of flour, a pint of milk, salt and pepper; boil this till thick, then take it from the fire, and put in ten eggs, beat them all up together, pour it into a dish tor table, and finish the cooking over a stove. Pass a salamander over the top to colour it. v Egcs and Lettuce.—Scald some cabbage lettuce, and squeeze them well; then slice them, and toss them up with butter • season them with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; then set them over a gun tie fire in a saucepan, with butter- and let them stew for half an hour ; then skim off the fat, and add to them a fish cullis ; then lay them in dishes. Poach some eggs in butter, lay the eggs upon thei lettuce, and serve them on plates. .JiGCS wjth M Livers.*—Fry a dozen pieces of bread (each large enough to hold a poached egg) in lard, and lay them n a dtsh. Make a farce with fat livers o7thL ’ Td nJUtmeS- Put some of this on the bread, and place on each a poached egg, cover the whole with the .farce bread, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve it over veal or fowl gravy. Ego Marmalade*—Clarify a pound ofEGG 240 EGG sugar, keeping it rather thick; when cool, add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which should he perfectly free from the whites, and well stirred, but not beaten ; set these on the fire, stirring continually until it boils, and then continue to stir until suffi- ciently thick; if any scum should arise, it need not be taken off, as the boiling and stirring will effectually remove it. Orange-flower water may be added, if approved. Egg Mince Pies.—Boil six eggs until they are hard; shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet; then add one pound of currants picked and washed (if the eggs were large you must use more currants), the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoons- ful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. . Eggs a la Mode—Take a handful ot bread crumbs, and simmer them in good fat broth, and when it is quite thick, and no liquid remains, take it off the fire; chop a good slice of bacon, previously boiled, to mix with it, and add a spoonful of a la mode beef sauce, not seasoned too highly, the yolks of eighteen eggs beaten up, and the whites of six; a little pounded coriander, pepper, and salt, if the sauce does not give it taste enough ; mix all together very well; garnish a deep stew- pan all round with slices of bacon, put the preparation into it, and. bake it in the oven ; when done, turn it over gently, take oft' the bacon, wipe the fat with a cloth, pour a brown glaze over, and let it cool before using. Eggs a la Mode de Portugal.—Take two large lemons, strain the juice through a sieve into an earthen pipkin; add to this a tea-spoonful of basket salt, and two ounces of very fino sugar ; set it over the fire, and when it boils, break into it four eo-o-s * stir them with a silver spoon, till they will not stick to the saucepan, which is a si^n that they are done enough ; pour them Into a soup-plate, and shako over them a little very fine sugar; heat a sala- mander red hot, and hold it over them, which will give them a nice gloss. Eggs h teA’cige.’-Break ten eggs and having separated the yolks and whites, whip the latter ns for biscuits; then add two spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little dried orange flower in powder. Pour a quart of milk, six ounces ot .pow- der sugar, and a little orange flower, into a saucepan, and when it boils put into it, a dessert-spoonful at a time, ot the white of egg; poach the latter, and then set them on a sieve to drain. ’1 hen beat up the yolks, and mix them with half the milk, put it on the tire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it begins to thicken ; then take it off, lay the poached eggs in a dish, and cover them with the yolks and milk. Eggs in Paste (Fried).—Make choice of the smallest eggs, poach them; when trimmed and cold, carefully dry them in a cloth ; then prepare a paste, the same as for rassoles, into which lay the eggs; cut them the same shape, fry them in the same manner, and serve them very hot, on a napkin. Egg and Ham Patties.—Prom the most solid part of a stale quartern loaf, cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness ; have in readiness a tin round cutter of two inches in diameter, cut out four or five pieces, then take a cutter, tn o sizes smaller, press it nearly through the larger pieces; then with a knife remove the bread from the circle ; have ready a large stewpan full of boiling lard ; fry them of a light brown colour, drain them dry, with a clean cloth, and put them aside till wanted; then take half a pound of lean ham, mince it small; add to it a gill of good brown sauce ; stir it over the tire for a few minutes, and add a small quantity of Cayenne pepper and lemon juice; till . the shapes with the mixture, and lay a poached egg upon each. Eggs a la Pauvre Femme*—Put a little butter into a dish, that will bear the fire, and heat it; break over it ten or twelve etro-s, and set the dish on hot ashes; in the mean while cut some crumb of bread into dice, and throw into butter; give them a boil, drain and strew them over the 'Vgs, pass a salamander over, and serve with esnagnole reduced. Eggs (Pickled).—Boil the eggs very hard ; peel them, and put them into cold water, shifting them till the)' are cold. Make a pickle of white wine vinegar, a blade of mace, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little whole pepper; take the eggs out of the water, and put them immediately into the pickle, which should be hot .stir them a good while, that they may all look alike ; untie the herbs and spread hem over the top of the pot, but cover them with nothing else til. they are brown. They will be f to eat in nine or ten days.EGG EGG 241 Egg Pie.—Having boiled twelve eggs bard, shred them with one pound of beef suet, or marrow shred line; season them with a little cinnamon and nutmeg finely beaten, one pound of currants, clean washed and picked, two or three spoonsful of cream, and a little sack and rose water, mixed all together; then fill the pie, and when it is baked, stir in half a pound of fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon. Egg Pie.—Boil a dozen eggs hard, mince the yolks very small with their weight in beef suet; put to them some salt, beaten spice, lemon peel, rose water, sugar, a quarter of a pound of dates, stoned and sliced, add a pound of currants; you may also add an apple shred small; mix all these together, fill your dish, and bake it. Serve it to table with a little wine. Eggs a la Piemontaise.*—Put a couple of anchovies and a little gravy into a saucepan, and when they are dissolved, add the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs (well beaten), season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; beat them well whilst they are doing. Serve them with fried bread, grate Parmesan cheese over, and brown it with a salamander. Eggs {Poached).—Have ready a sauce- pan full of boiling water, with a little vi- negar and salt in, break in your eggs care- fully, and let them simmer for two minutes; then take them out with a slice, and serve them, either upon toast, spinach, or what- ever you please. Eggs '{Poached) with Aspic.* — Warm i some aspic, and pour part of it into a mould ; when congealed'again, have ready ■some eggs poached, and garnished with truffles ; lay them on the jelly, and fill the mould with the remaining aspic, and finish it in the usual way. Eggs {Poached) with Gravy*—Fill a saucepan about three parts full of water, to which add a little salt and vinegar; as soon as it boils, set it by the side of the i “re> and carefully break four eggs into it • be careful not to injure the yolks. When done, take them out with an e»-o- spoon jmd if they should chance to be rather ’inrd, throw them into cold water, drain them on a cloth, pepper them a little, and serve them with gravy. Twelve or fifteen eggs are sufficient for a dish; the water doinr1 b<3 kept boilino whilst they are Boos (Pntage of Poached)* — Having poached as many eggs as you wish to have, trim and place them in a soup tureen, and pour on them some good stock or broth, i en minutes before- you serve it, add a small quantity of coarse pepper. Eggs a la Proven^ale*—Put a glass of oil into a frying-pan oyer a gentle fire, and hen quite hot pour into it an Ggg, with salt and pepper; when the white begins to bubble, press it down with a spoon, turn it, that both sides may be equally done; then take it out, and set it on a hair sieve to drain; do twelve eggs in this manner, dish them with fried bread glazed between each. Reduce some sauce espagnole, in which put the juice of half a lemon, and pour it over them. Eggs {Puffed or Raised).—Carefully se- parate the whites and yolks of eight e°-o\S without breaking the yolks ; froth up °the whites; cover one of the yolks carefully, vvith a spoonful of the froth, and so con- tinue, till all the yolks are covered; then slide them gently off into a hot friture one after another. Serve with a eullis sauce, made tolerably relishing or sharp with lemon juice. r Ecg Punch.*—Take a punch glass, and put into it a wine glass of syrup of punch (see that article), and the yolk of an e°-o- • beat them together with a spoon, and then fill up the glass with boiling water, stirring a little as you pour it in. Eggs (a Salmi of). — Boil six bruise shalots in a glass of white wine for about six minutes; mix this liquid with pounded roasted livers of hares, rabbits, or any other kind of game, to give it the taste ; add the yolks of six eggs, beaten up with a little gravy, and a spoonful or two of well-sea- soned eullis; strain it, and bake it au bain- mane. Egg Sandwiches*—Boil some eggs bard leave them to get quite cold; then cut them, sbortwise, into slices of a moderate lckness, and put them between slices of rollout thin, and buttered; according to andesaft°U tLcm with PePPer Ecg Sauce. Boil three eggs hard, cut them in small squares, and mix them in good butter sauce, make it very hot, and squeeze in some lemon juice before vou serve it. and after them a'’slice of b^^the sausage on it, with a poached egg between each link; if the toast is too strong foed butter it a little. ° lued» (fcotc/i).—Take five pullet’s eggs, and boil them hard, and without removing n .S'’"*242 EGG EGG the whites, cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat, in which let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy, hear a due pro- portion. Pry them of a line yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in the dish. Eggs in Slices.*■—Take the yolks of a dozen liard-hoiled eggs, and put them on a dish with salt, pepper, and basil in pow- der; cut the whites, and live or six onions, into slices, put them into a saucepan with half a glass of boiling oil; when about two- thirds done, add a glass of gravy, and hall a glass of white wine ; simmer this for half an hour, and pour it into your dish over the yolks, and lay the sliced whites on the Eggs with Spinach.—Scald a handful of spinach in boiling water, and drain it fit to fee pounded in a mortar; when well pounded, pour in a pint of cream to make the cream of a fine pea green; add a little salt, the yolks of six or eight eggs, preserved, ma- caroni drops, and rasped lemon peel; strain and press it, then pour it into a dish; keep it some time over a moderate file to catch a little at the bottom without burning. Glaze it with sugar powder, and colour it with a hot shovel. Eggs (Stuffed) Take ten or a dozen hard eggs, and cut each in half, lengthwise ; take out all the yolks, pound and rub them through a quenelle sieve ; soak some crumb of bread in milk, and when quite soft, press out all the milk, pound and pass that also through a quenelle sieve ; do the same with some good fresh butter ; then take equal quantities of each, mix them together well in the mortar, with the addition of parsley and scallions, shred fine; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and bind the farce with the yolks of raw eggs ; when quite done, put a layer, about an inch thick, on a dish, then put some in each half egg, and cement them together with white of egg, place them in proper order on the Jtirce, and set the dish on hot ashes, and cover it with hot ashes also to colour it. Eggs en Surprise.*—Take a dozen eggs, and make a small hole at each end of every ecrcr, through which pass a straw aud break the yolk ; then blow out the yolk carefully. Wash the shells, and having drained, dry them in the open air; mix the yolk of an egg with a little flour to close one o the holes of the shells, and when dry fill half the number by means of a small funnel, with chocolate cream, and the remaining six with codec or orange cream ; close the other end of your eggs, and put them into a saucepan of hot water; set them on the j fire, taking care they do not boil; when done, remove the cement from the ends; dry, and serve them on a folded napkin. Ecgs en Surtout.*—Put some parsley-, , I scallions, slialots, and mushrooms, all shred | small, into a stew-pan with a bit of butter, and a pinch of flour; having given them a few turns over the fire, add a pint of milk, salt, and pepper, let these boil till thick, and then put in seven hard eggs, each cut in four, and give them one boil before you dish them ; cover the eggs en- • tirely with the sauce; butter the top, strew bread crumbs over, butter it again, and colour it with a salamander. Egg Tart.— Chop up some sweet herbs, and mix them with a good bit of butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; put it into the bottom of some paste, with some good butter, what quantity of hard eggs you choose cut into quarters, and some raw ones beat up as for an omelet; finish the pie as usual; you may add caper sauce when ready, or a cream sauce. Egg Toast*—Put a glass of thick cream, some sugar, two or three macaroons pounded, with a few almonds, a little orated lemon, give them a boil; then add the yolks of eight and whites of three eggs, beat the whole up over a slow fire, and lay- on very thin slices of fried bread; sprinkle sugar over, and serve. Eggs a la Tripe*—Cut a dozen hard eo-gs into slices, and put them into a sauce- pan, take the same number of onions, slice them also, and do them up with some but- ter in another saucepan ; then add a spoon- ful of flour, two glasses of cream, salt, and pepper; simmer them, and when pretty thick, pour it on the eggs, then do them all up together, and serve them very hot. Eggs a la T'ripe an Roux*—lake a little butter, and a spoonful of flour, colour it over the fire, and add a handful of small onions cut into dice, a little more butter, and a small quantity of stock : set them on the fire; when the onions are sufficiently done, put in some hard-boiled eggs sliced, boil the whole up once, put in a few drops of vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve them. , . Another nay.*—rut some sliced muons and a little butter into a saucepan, set it over a gentlo fire for a short tune ; then add some maigre cullis, or roux, niai1, ?s above, a glass of white wine, a little water, salt, and pepper. hen this n. tolerably thick, take well-dried omelet,ELD 245 ELD cut it in pieces, aud put it to the onions ; make it quite hot, taking care that it does not boil, and when ready i’or table, pat mustard to it, and serve. Egos with Verjuice.—Well beat up some eggs with a little veijuice, then put to them salt and nutmeg ; put them over the fire with a little butter, and when they are about as thick as cream, serve them. Eggs (to make a Dish of Whites off— Take the whites of twelve eggs, beat them up with four spoonsful of rose water, some lemon peel grated, and a little nutmeg; sweeten them with sugar, mix them well, and boil them in four bladders ; tie them in the shape of an egg, and boil them hard; they will take half an hour; lay them in a dish ; when cold, mix half a pint of thick cream, a gill of mountain, and the juice of half an orange all toge- ther ; sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over the eggs. . Egg Wine.—Beat up an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour' a little ot it to the egg by degrees, till the whole is in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, set it oyer a gentle fire, stir it one way for a minute, not longer; for if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will curdle; serve with toast. You may make it as above, without warming the egg, and it will be lighter on the stomach, though not so agreeable to the palate. ELDER Flower Fritters.—They are made whilst the elder flowers are in bloom ; and they should marinate three or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange-flower water, and lemon peel; when drained, dip ,them in a good thick batter to fry, and serve with rasped sugar, as in general. Elder Buds {Pickled').—The elder buds should be gathered when they are about the size ot hop buds; put them into a strong brine of salt and water for nine ajs ; and stir them two or three times a ay. 1 ut them into a pan, cover them " it'1 Vlne leaves, and pour over them the water they came out of. Set them over a slow lire till they become quite green, and then make a pickle for them of alegar (made of sour ale), a little mace, a few shalots, and some ginger sliced ; boil this two or three minutes, and pour it upon the buds ; then tie them down, and keep them in a very dry place. Elder Shoots {Pickled),—Gather the elder shoots when of the thickness of a tobacco-pipe, and put them into salt and water all night; then put them in layers into stone jars, and between every layer strew a little mustard seed, scraped horseradish, a few shalots, a little white beet root, and a cauliflower pulled into small pieces; pour boiling alegar (made of sour ale), upon it, and scald it three times; keep it in a dry place, with a leather tied over it. Elder Vinegar.—Put dried elderflowers into stone or double-glass bottles, fill them up with good wine vinegar, and set them in the sun, or by the fire, till their virtue is extracted. Elder Vinegar.* — Choose the elder flowers when just blown, take away all the stalks, and when the flowers are about half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jar with vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand in the sun for twenty days; then draw it oft, press the flowers, and having filtered the whole, bottle it; take care to keep the bottles closely corked. Elder Vinegar. — The elder flowers should be gathered before they are too much blown; pick them clean from the great stalks, and dry them in the sun, when it is not too hot; put a handful of them to a quart of the best white-wine vinegar, and let it stand twelve or fourteen days ; then strain it, and draw it off, and put it into the vessel, but keep back a quart, and make it very hot; put it into the vessel to make it ferment; then stop it close for use, and draw it oft’ when it is wanted. Elder Wine.*—Pour a gallon ofboilino- water on every gallon of elder berries, let it stand twelve hours ; then draw it off, and boil it up with three pounds and a halt of sugar; when boiling, beat up some whites of eggs and clarify it: skim it clear, then add half an ounce of pounded ginger to every gallon of the wine ; boil it a little longer, before you put it in the tub : when cool, put in a toast rubbed in yeast • let it ferment a day or two, after which’ put it into a barrel previously rinced with brandy. All wines should be milkwarm when the yeast is added to them. Elder Wine.* —To three pounds of elder berries, put one pound of damsons, sloes8 nm<3 Sall0n caslc Put a P1^ of Boil two gallons of water with an ounce ot hops, for an hour and a half; then put in sugar, in the proportion of four pounds to five quarts of water; keep skimming «2244 END EMP •as it rises, and then set it to cool; boil the fruit for half an hour, strain the juice, and put a quart of it to every gallon of water ; then let it work with yeast three days; put it into the ban-el, and stop it close. The quantity of spice to be regulated by the taste; as may the sugar also. When the wine has stood four or six weeks, add to the above four pounds of stoned raisins. Elder Flower Wine.—Put ten pounds of loaf sugar to four gallons of water, boil it till a sixth part is wasted away ; while it is boiling, skim it well; then set it by till it is as cool as wort; then put in a spoonful or two of yeast, and as soon as it begins to work, put in about a pint and a half of blossoms of elder, picked from the stalks, stir it daily until it has done working, which will be in about a week ; then put it up in a cask, stop it close, let it stand two or three months, and it it is •clear, bottle it off. ELIXIR de Garrus.*—Take two ounces and a half of aloes, half an ounce of myrrh, two drachms of saffron, of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, twenty-four grains each ; bruise all these articles, put them into a. matrass, and pour over them a quart ot highly-rectified spirits of wine, in which has been previously mixed three ounces of filtered river water; close the matrass hermetically, and let it stand in the sun or on hot ashes for twenty-four hours, shaking it frequently. The above substances being thoroughly dissolved, put them into a glass alembic, and distil them by means of a sand hath ; from the above quantities you will obtain a quart of aromatic spirit, to which add an equal weight of syrup of capil- laire, and a sufficient portion of orange- flower water, to give an agreeable per- fume ; then let it stand a fortnight in a well-closed vessel; at the end of that time draw it off, and bottle it; seal the corks carefully. EMPOTAGE*—Tut into a large sauce- pan three or four pounds of beef steaks, a knuckle of veal, and four old hens; moisten this quantity of meat with two ladiesful of broth ; set it on a stove, and let it boil till properly reduced, taking care that none of the meat bums, which would make the empotage of two high a colour ; fill up your saucepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, and onions ; let all these ingredients stand over the fire for three hours and a half; then strain the whole through a silk sieve, that it may be perfectly clear. ENDIVE an Jus.*—Blanch and drain some endive, split them in half, season each with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; then tie the halves together, and put them into a stewpan, on some slices of bacon, cover them in the same way, put in also veal, . mutton, or beef sliced, two onions, two • cloves, two carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs, moisten the whole with the skim- mings of consomme; stew the endive thus for three hours, then drain and press them in a cloth; trim and dish them up for table, serve with good gravy. Endive, Pottage of.*—Cut four or five heads of endive into very small pieces, and do them up in a small quantity of butter, do not let them brown ; moisten it with stock, and let it boil for three quarters of an hour, season the pottage with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, and pour it, as usual, on bread, and serve it. Endive (Puree of).*—Blanch and cut your endive into small pieces, and do them up in a little butter, with pepper, a ladleful of veloute, a little cream, and only j ust sufficient sugar to take off the sharp- ness ; stir it till pretty thick, then mb it through a sieve, and set it by for use. Endive in a Puree.—Pick and well wash in several waters a dozen heads of endive; then, having a large stewpan of water boiling on the fire, put in the en- dive, with a handful of salt; skim it well, and let it boil till done ; then let it drain for two or three minutes on a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon mb it through the same sieve into a dish ; put it into a corner of the sieve again, for an hour or longer, to drain the water from it, then stir it on the fire in a stewpan, with apiece of butter; as soon as it is melted, add three or four table-spoonsful of good con- somme, and continue stirring it on the fire till it boils to its former thickness ; when so, mix in three spoonsful of hechamelle sauce ; boil it for a minute ; take it off the fire, and stir in the yolk of one egg, with a little cream and salt, with a very little sugar if required. Endive (Ragout of).*—Blanch and boil some endive in stock, then add to it a little veal blond, an onion stuck with cloves, and the juice of a lemon. Serve it very hot. Endive (Ragox'it of).—lake three or four heads of "the whitest endive; put them in salt and water for two or three hours ; cut off the green heads from a hundred of asparagus, and chop the resESP 245 END small, as far as they are tender; lay them also in salt and water; take three or four heads of celery, washed and scraped clean, and cut in pieces two or three inches long; put them into a saucepan, with three or four blades of mace, and some whole pep- per tied in a rag, with a pint of water; stew it till it is quite tender, then put in the asparagus, shake the saucepan and let it simmer till the asparagus is done; take the endive out of the water, drain it well; leave one head whole, and pull the others leaf from leaf; put them into a stewpan with a pint of white wine; cover the pan very close, and let it boil till it is suffi- ciently done, then put in a quarter of a pound of butter, rolled in flour; cover it closely, but shake the pan; then take up the endive; put the whole head in the centre of a dish; arrange the celery and asparagus round it with a spoon, and the leaves of the endive over that, and keep it hot; pour the liquor into the stewpan, stir it all together; have ready the yolks of a couple of eggs, beat up with some cream ; put in a little salt, some grated nutmeg; mix this well with the sauce; keep it stirring one way till it is thick; pour it over the endive, and send it to table. Endive Soup.—Ibis is a clear soup, made in the same maimer as lettuce soup. Be careful to wash the endive well, and pick out the bitter parts. Endive (Stewed).—Take a dozen heads of the very best endive; pick off what you think bitter; wash it well, and blanch it whole in plenty of water, with a good handful of salt; when done, lay them on a sieve to drain, and tie each separate with packthread, and lay them between lards of iat bacon, and stew them gently in good strong consomme; take them out of tlmcim- somme, and lay them in a line upon a clean cloth; take off the packthread, and roll the endive tight up in the cloth for a mi- nute or two, then open the cloth, and cut the endive in pieces, about six inches in length ; lay them on a dish ; have ready a saute a l’Espagnole with a bit of butter mixed in it, and a squeeze of lemon; when this sauce is very hot, pour it over the en- utve, and serve it to table. Endive au Veloutt*—Take off all the outer leaves of your endive, and havino- opened the hearts, put them into cold water to wash them. In the mean while neat a kettle of water, put in it a handful ot salt, then throw in the endive; keep it constantly under the water, to prevent eir turr‘ing black. As soon as the en- dive is tender, drain, and then put it into cold water, and when quite cold, drain it again; press the water out with your hands; then chop it small, and put it into a sauce- pan, with some butter, salt, and pepper, stir it well, and then add five spoonsful of veloute, the same ot consomme; reduce it till pretty thick, and then put it in a dish, with fried bread round it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, in which case put two spoonsful of flour into it, and moisten it with cream. Entree.*—There is no word precisely equivalent to this in English. Any dish of butcher’s meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed for the Jirst course, is called an entree. ENTREMET.*—There is no word equivalent to this in English. All dishes of vegetables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lobsters, and, in general, every thing that appears in the second course, except the roast, is called an entremet. ESPAGNOLE.—Take an old fowl, and about fourteen pounds of leg or shoulder of veal; chop the latter into pieces, and put it, with very little water, into a large saucepan, with two carrots, three onions, a pound of ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, and a clove of garlic ; let this stew over a moderate fire, shakino- it frequently, till it becomes of a brown colour, when you may add to it a sufficient quantity of hot water to come about four inches above the meat. Set it by the side of the stove to boil gently, skimming when necessary, till the meat comes from the bones; then strain it through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. Espacnule (Grande) *—Take two jioix of veal, a pheasant, or four partridges, half a noix of ham, four or five large carrots, five onions (one of them stuck with five cloves) j put all these into a saucepan, and pour over them a bottle of Madeira wine, and a ladleful of stock; set it over a large fire, to reduce it, then place it on a slow fire, until slightly coloured; take it off, and let it stand about ten minutes. Prepare some sous-noit as directed for Grunde Sauce, and add the liquor to the espagnole; skim it well, and put in some rottx, two or three bay leaves, a little thyme, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, and shnlots. As soon as the sauce boils, set the sauce- pan by the sido of the stove, to let it do more gently, for two hours. Be very care- ul that your saucepan be perfectly clean before you use it, otherwise the espagnole Will be thick and muddy.FAR FAR 246 Espagnole" Travaillee*— Take five ladiesful of espagnole, three of consomme, and a handful of mushrooms ; if the sauce be not sufficiently coloured, you may add some veal blond ; boil these over a brisk fire; skim and take off all the fat. When it is well reduced, strain it, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. This sauce should be of the consistence of clear broth. Haifa bottle of white wine may be added to this. ESSENCE.* —Take half a bottle of white wine, half a glass of the best vine- gar, the juice of two lemons, three ounces of salt, half an ounce of whole pepper, a little nutmeg and mace, four cloves, four bay leaves, thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten shalots, pounded, and an ounce of dry mushrooms; put all these ingredients into an earthen pan, over a brisk fire; when near boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for six or seven hours; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and afterwards filter it. Keep it in closely-corked bottles : a small quan- tity is sufficient to flavour a dish. F. FANCHONETTES* — Put into a saucepan two ounces of flour, three ot sugar, one of butter, two of pounded al- monds, some green lemon peel, two yolks, and one whole egg, a little salt, and halt a pint of milk ; put these ingredients on the fire, and let them set like a cream ; line some tartlet tins, or moulds with puff paste, fill them with the preparation ; place the moulds on a tin, and bake the fanchonettes in a brisk oven ; when about three parts done, take them out, put frothed eggs on, sprinkle sugar over, and replace them in the oven to finish the baking. FARCE a la Creme.—Make use of the panada and udder (see Panada/or Farces'), but no herbs are required in the panada, instead of which, put a little cream. Take the white flesh of a fowl that has been roasted; take off the skin and sinews, chop the meat very fine; then pound it as you do for other farces. Put in the yolks of four eggs, after the farce has bpen pounded and well seasoned. Poat. the whites of the eggs, and mix them gently with the rest, stirring the whole with a wooden spoon. Use this farce when requisite ; it is generally used for Fowl it la Creme,- if you have in the larder a cold roast fowl, you may make that entree with it; empty the fowl, by cutting a square hole in the breast, the white flesh you make the farce with, and then re- place it in the cavity, and proceed as di- rected in the receipt for Fowl a la Creme. Farce Cuite* — Cut some undressed breast of fowl into dice, and put them into a- stewpan with a small piece of butter, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; do them up over the fire for ten minutes, then take out the meat, drain, and let it cool; put a piece of bread into the same stew- • pan, with some broth and a little shred ! parsley; stir it with a wooden spoon, and beat it up over the fire till the bread is of the consistence of panada, and the broth reduced, when it must be set to cool; then pound the fowl well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve; do the same with the bread, and after that a ready dressed calf’s udder, keeping all separate; then take equal portions of these three ingredients, and pound them together for three quarters of an hour; at the end of that time, add the yolks of five or six eggs, according to the quantity of your farce, still pounding until the whole be well mixed together; then take it from tire mortar and set it aside in a pan for use. . Fauce a Grntin of Partridges, Rabbits, and Fowls.—The Farce a Gratin is made in the same manner as the Farce a la Creme, with the only difference, that you must not beat the whites of tire eggs, and that this farce is to be kept delicate and soft. Use the flesh of roasted chickens or young rabbits, or young partridges. This farce is intended for the stuffing of such articles as are not to be put on the firo again; such as calf’s ears, calfs feet, larks au gratin, Ac. • Farce (Omelet of).*—Take any meat, game, or fowl farce vou please ; pour on it a dozen eggs well beaten, and fry your omelet, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness all over. Farce a Quenelles.—Put the crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with two table-spoonsful of fowl consomme, one of veloute, a tea-spoonful of parsley, and twe of mushrooms (both shred fine) ; set it on a moderate tire till it boils; stir if con- stantly, and when it forms a smooth, softisii paste, add the yolks of two eggs; then put it on a plate, and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. 1 ake the fillets from two fat chickens, and having re- moved the skin, pound and rub them through a sieve ; proceed in the same wav with two readv-dressed calfs udders andFAU 247 FEN the panada or bread. When you have proceeded so far, weigh six ounces of panada, ten of the chicken, and eight of the udder, pound the two former together for a quarter of an hour; then add the panada, and having pounded fifteen or twenty minutes longer, put five drachms of spiced salt, grated nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs, at first, and in five minutes, two more yolks, a tahle-spoonful of veloutt, pounding continually, at least five minutes after all the ingredients are put in. Take a small piece of this farce, and form it into' a hall or quenelle, and throw it into some broth; when it has boiled a minute, take it out, and if it be tolerably firm and smooth, it is properly done; but if too firm, add more veloutt; if not sufficiently so, the yolk of another egg- Farce of Veal (hot) for Pies, <5fc.—Chop an equal quantity of veal and fat bacon, and season with pepper, salt, and fine pounded spice, add savoury herbs, if not intended to keep long, and shalots, with chopped truffles if possible, aud some- times chopped ham; sweat these ingre- dients in a close covered stewpan till quite tender, pound it well, till very fine, and taste if it is properly seasoned. Fat livers just scalded and well pounded amongst it, is a great improvement, FAUN.—Faun should be dressed al- most as soon as it is killed. When very , young they should be trussed, stuffed, 1 and spitted in the same manner as a | hare. But they are better eating when of the size of house lamb, and are then I roasted in quarters; the hind quarter is considered the best. They must be done by a very quick fire, and either basted all the time they are roasting, or be covered with slices of fat bacon; when done, I baste it with butter, and dredge it with a little salt and flour, till you get a nice froth upon it. FAUBONNE*—This soup is com- • posed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, Celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, all cut in dice, except the lettuce and sorrel, | Which must be bruised ; do up the roots in a little butter; then put in the lettuce, 1 herbs, and chervil, moisten them with broth, and let it boil over a gentle fire tor an hour or more, if necessary; then soak your bread in the usual way, and Pour the fuubonne over it. i'AUN (Saddle of).—Well lard it, and Put it into a very large vessel with salt, 1 pepper, aud onions cut into slices, parsley, vinegar, spices, &c.; leave it to pickle for two or three days, taking great care to turn it frequently on every side; then roast it, and serve witli a poivrade under it. Mind that the fillets and both legs must be larded. FENNEL (Pickled).— Take some spring water, and when it boils put in the fennel tied in bunches, with some salt; do not let it boil, but when it is of a fine green, dry it on a cloth; when it is cold, put it in a glass, with some nut- meg and mace, fill it with cold vinegar, and put a bit of green fennel at the top; cover it the same as all other pickles, with a bladder and leather. Fennel Sauce.—Boil a bunch of fennel and parsley ; chop it small, and stir it into melted butter. Fennel Sauce.—Slice four or five onions, and soak them in two spoonsful of oil, two of cullis, and two of white wine, with two cloves of garlic ; sim- mer it for an hour, skim off the fat, and sift the sauce in a sieve; then add chopped parsley and fennel, coarse pepper, and salt; boil a moment before using it. Fennel Sauce. — Pick green fennel, mint, and parsley, a little of each ; wash them clean, and boil them till tender, drain and press them, chop them fine, add melted butter, and serve up the sauce immediately, for if the herbs are mixed any length of time before it is served up to table they will be discoloured. Parsley becomes equally discoloured from the same cause. If approved, there may be added the pulp of green gooseberries rubbed through a hair sieve, and a little sifted sugar. Fennel Sauce *—Take as many branches of green fennel as you may require; pick and wash it in the same manner as parsley, chop it very small, scald, and then lay it on a sieve to cool. Put two spoonsful of veloutd, and the same of butter sauce, into a saucepan; make them quite hot, take care to stir it well, that they may be properly mixed; rub the fennel in a little butter, aud then throw it into the sauce; mix it in thoroughly, and season it with salt, pep- per, and nutmeg. Fennel (Cooling Water of).—This is done simply by steeping some fennel in hot water, till it has the taste of the herb sufficiently; add what sugar you think proper, and keep it in a cool place a good while before using; the same is done with any other kind of herb, and iPIG FIL 248 in general with all sorts of fruit used in confectionary ; also with the syrups of liquid preserves, mixing some of the liquor with water and sugar, sufficient to make it palatable. You may either ice it or not, according as you think proper. FIELDFARES (Roasted).—When they are picked and drawn, lard them with bacon, put a paper round them, and lay them at a distance from the fire; when they are nearly done, take off the paper, and let them finish, to he of a nice brown ; then serve with gravy or melted butter for sauce. FIGS (to keep) all the Year fit for Use.— Put some figs in a large earthen jar, with a layer of their own leaves between them; then boil some water and honey, skimming it well (be careful not to make it too thick of the honey), and pour it over the figs ; then stop the jar very close. When you take out the figs for use, soak them for two hours in warm water. Figs ( Preserved).*—Take some half-ripe figs, prick them near the stalks, and blanch them ; when half cold, throw them into cold water, and then drain them, Boil some clarified sugar to perle, put in the figs, and give them three or four boils with the pan covered close ; then take them from the fire, skim them well, and having poured the whole into a pan, set it in a stove for the night. The next day drain off the syrup (without removing the fruit), boil it up ten or a dozen times, and then pour it on them when no more than lukewarm ; on the ensuing day, having drained off the syrup, boil it to grand •perle; then add tbe figs, cover the pre- serving-pan close, boil them up once, skim it well, and put it into the pots, Ac. for use. Figs (to preserve Green). — Slit some small green figs on the top, and put them into water for ten days, and proceed thus: Put as much salt into the water as will make it bear an egg ; then let it settle, take off the scum, and put the clear brine to the figs ; keep them in water for ten days, then put them into fresh water; let them boil till you can easily pass a pin into them ; drain them and put them into other fresh water, shifting them every day for four days ; again drain them, put them into clarified sugar, warm them a little, and leave them to stand till the next day ; warm them again, and when they are become green, give them a good boil; then boil some sugar to blow, put it to them, and give them another boil; tho next day drain and dry them. Figs (to preserve Ripe). — Take the white figs when ripe, slit them in tbe tops, put them into clarified sugar, and give them a good boil; skim them, and leave them to stand till the next day; ; then boil some more sugar ais souffle, put it to the figs, and give them another boil ; ; the next day drain and dry them. FILBERT Biscuits.—Take some Bar- celona filbert nuts, and put them in a mortar to break their shells; pick all the shells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mix whites of eggs with them; take care they do not oil ; mix three pounds of powdered sugar, with the nuts and whites of eggs, to a proper thickness : let your oven be of a moderate heat, then with the spaddle and knife, drop small pieces, about half as big as a nutmeg; put two or three sheets of paper under them, let them bake of a fine brown, and all alike; and let them be cold before you take them off the paper. Filbert Biscuits.*—Take half a pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter almonds, the whites of six, and the yolks of three eggs, an ounce of flour, and half a pound of sugar; blanch and pound tbe filberts and almonds, adding, occasionally, a little white of egg to prevent their oiling. Beat the whites to a snow, then the yolks, mix the latter with half the sugar; beat them well, and having mixed the other ingredients together put them into a sieve, and whilst you are beating, sift them into the whites; when all are thoroughly incorporated, pour the pre- paration into paper cases, and bake them in a moderate oven. A little grated lemon peel, or any other aromatic ingre- dient added to the'yolks, greatly improves these biscuits. Filbert Blancmange.*—Blanch a pound of filberts, and lay half of them in cold water for two hours ; put the other half pound into a pan over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly with a silver spoon, till they are of a clear yellow, then remove them from the fire, and let them cool; then pound them, adding occasion- ally a little water to prevent their oiling. When well pounded, take them from the mortar, and put them into a pan, with two glasses and a half ot water; press the whole through a napkin to extract the milk ; to which put an ounce of sugar; as soon as the latter is dissolved, press l a second time through a napkin, and adaFIL 249 FIL to it half an ounce of isinglass. Proceed in a similar manner with the filberts which have been in the water, by which means you will have one part of your blancmange perfectly white, and the other a clear light yellow. Finish your blancmange in the usrnfl way. Filberts (Burnt White).—Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and put them in the oven to roast; then have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almost to caramel; put your filberts in, stir them till they are all covered with sugar, pick them in a sieve, break those which stick together, and then have another pan with syrup boiled the same as the first, and give the filberts a second coat of sugar. Filberts (Cannellons of).*—Burn and pound six ounces of filberts, moistening them with white of egg; when well pounded, add a quarter of a pound of fine pounded sugar, and half the white of an egg; dry this paste a little, and then press it through a syringe, cutting the cannellons about four inches in length; make the fri- ture quite hot, dip the cannellons in batter, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them with a salamander. Take particular care to keep the cannellons per- fectly straight. Filberts (Conserve of).—Upon half a ' pound of sugar, put an ounce of filberts cut into as small strips as possible ; the ; kernels being first scalded, as is done in blanched almonds, to get the skin off; finish the same as dried conserves. Fileert Cream Franfaise*—Wash and dram a quarter of a pound of filberts I (blanched) and colour them very slightly • when cold, pound them, adding occasion- ally a spoonful of milk; put the paste into five glasses of boiling milk, cover it close, and letit stand till no more than lukewarm, and having in the mean time beat up the yolks of eight eggs, into which strain the i infusion of filberts, add ten ounces of sugar and a grain of salt; set the cream in the usual way, put six drachms of isinglass to », and finish as directed. See Cream francaise. This kind of cream is made in the same manner with almonds, in which case, six ' °unces of sweet, and half an ounce of bit- ter_almonds, are the proper quantities. ■Gilbert (Burnt) Ice Cream. — Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and pound them a little with some cream ; put our eggs into a stewpan, with one pint of i cream and two gills of syrup ; boil it till it becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it; then mix the filberts with it be- fore you put it into your moulds. Filbert (Burnt) Cream Pdtissiere.* — Wash, drain, and diy a quarter of a pound of filberts, throw them into a preserving- pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to souffle; let them boil up about a dozen times, then stir them lightly with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to the filberts ; as soon as it begins to candy, pour the whole on a slab, care- fully removing whatever sugar may stick to the pan or spatula; when the almonds are cold, add two ounces of powder sugar, and then crush them with a rollingpin, put them into the cream putissiere, and make it according to the directions of that article. Filberts (Souffles of Petits).*—Beat up half a pound of sifted sugar with the white of an egg ; grate into this three ounces of burnt filberts ; mix them together, and, if necessary, add the white of another egg. Finish the petits souffles as usual. Filbert Genoise*—Pound six ounces of blanched filberts to a fine paste, then put two thirds of them to the usual ingredi- ents, instead of sweet almonds, and make the genoises according to directions. When baked, cut them into crescents, but do not dry them ; mix the remainder of your fil- berts, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and a little white of egg; cover the genoises with this, and then colour them. Filberts glacees a la Roy ale*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, with the white of an egg, for ten minutes; roll in this glaze two ounces of filberts (pre- viously blanched, and slightly burnt) ; then lay them on paper, in groups of two, three, or four together, according to your fancy : take care to clear away the glaze so that the filberts are merely covered with it. When you have done as many as you re- quire, set them in a gentle oven, till they are of a proper colour, then take them out; do not remove them from the paper before they are cold. f i ebert Ice*—Take a pound of filberts, shell and blanch them ; boil half a pound of sugar to souffle, then throw in the filberts, and let them boil up about a dozen times, then move them about with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to them ; as soon as they begin to candy, take them out; and when cold, put them into a saucepan, with the yolks of nine eggs, to which add a quart of double cream; set this on the fire, likeriL 250 FIL all other cream ices; when done, strain it off; let it cool, and then ice it as usual. Filbert Macaroons.*—Take n pound of filberts, and put a quarter of them into a preserving-pan (immediately after you have taken them from the shells), over a moderate fire ; stir them continually with a silver spoon, until they are coloured, and the skin begins to peel off; then take them out; rub off the skin entirely, and when quite cold, pound them with a little white of egg: proceed in the same manner with the remaining three quarters ; and when all are thus pounded separately, put the whole together into the mortar, with a pound of sugar, and the whites of two eggs, and beat them for ten minutes ; after which, add two pounds more of sifted sugar, pre- viously beaten up with six whites of eggs ; stir all these together well for five or six minutes, when the preparation should be sufficiently firm, to prevent its spreading when laid; if, however, it he too firm, add to it more white of egg. When you have proceeded so far, wet the palms of your hands, and roll a spoonful of the prepara- tion to the size and form of a nutmeg ; when all done, dip your hands in water, and pass them gently over the macaroons, which will make their surface smooth and shining; put them into a nearly cold oven ; close it tight, and let them remain in it for three quarters of an hour. Lay the maca- roons at least an inch apart, and as round as possible. Filbert Mirlitons *—Peel a quarter of a pound of filberts, and put them into a preserving-pan, over a moderate fire, to colour them lightly; when quite cold, pound them with a little white, of egg, to prevent their oiling; then mix them with six ounces of powder sugar, four eggs, and a grain of salt; when well amalgamated, add two ounces of melted fresh butter, and fill your moulds, prepared as for other mir- litons ; cover them with very fine sugar, and hake them in a moderate oven. Filbert Nougats, with whipped Cream.*— Peel half a pound offilberts, and chop them, not very small, and put them into the oven to colour them: then boil a quarter of a pound of powder sugar to a clear reddish colour; mix the filberts with it, and pour into moulds, of whatever form you may think proper; plain ones are, however, the best: then smooth and press the filberts within, so that they may take the form of the mould perfectly; and when wanted for table, put in each a little whipped cream, flavoured to your fancy: serve them turned over, that the cream may not be visible. These quantities, with eight spoonsful of cream, mixed with a quarter of a pound of •' sugar, and the aromatic ingredients, will will make about twenty or twenty-four small nougats. Filberts Petits Gateaux Royaux.*—Peel and pound two ounces of filberts to a fine- paste, and pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix it with six ounces of sifted sugar,. and the white of an egg; the petits gateaux: are made in the same manner as petits • gateaux royaux of almonds ; put the above- preparation on them, and finish them as: directed. Filbert Pralines (Burnt Red).—Take- some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack; them, put the kernels into a copper pan or: sheet, and put them into the oven to roast* ■ have a pan -with syrup boiling, and let it: boil till it comes to almost caramel; put a: little cochineal into a cup, when the sugar: is boiled, add to it the cochineal and the filberts, and stir them with a large wooden spoon, till you find the sugar has got hard round them; put them into a sieve, and se- parate those which stick together; have another pan with syrup in, and boil it as before, and as high; put the same quantity of cochineal in, and mix them as before, as doing them a second time they will be- come a much finer colour; then put them into a box. Filbert Rolls*—Having peeled half a i pound of filberts, put them into a pre- • serving-pan over a moderate fire, and stir : them constantly with a spatula until they become equally coloured of alight yellow; : then set them to cool. A\ hen cold, pound i them with a little white of egg to a paste, . then mix them with halt a pound of flour, . the same of powder sugar, and the yolks i of four or five eggs, and then finish the ‘I operation as directed for Almond Rolls. I Dorez, and trace on the surface an ear of wheat, or any thing else, with the point of a knife : take care to dry them well in the baking, that they may be crisp. Coarse I powder sugar may also be strewed over, 1 before they are put in the oven. Filbert small II afers.*— 1 ake a quarter of a pound of the’ preparation used for spoon biscuits, and spread it over a well- buttered baking-plate, with a knife, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness all over; peel a quarter of a pound of filberts, Cut them into thin slips, and mix them with two ounces of powder sugar, and a very little white of egg ; strew this over the above preparation, and bake it m aFIS FIS 251 a moderate oven; finish in the usual manner. FIRMITY.—To a quart of ready-boiled wheat, put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly; and then add four ounces of currants, picked clean, and I well washed; stir them, and boil them till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonsful of milk; add this to the wheat, stir them together while over the fire; then sweeten and serve in a deep dish, either cold or warm, according to taste. FISH (Observations on).— There is a general rule in choosing most kinds of fish; if their gills are red, their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff, they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills are I pale, the eyes sunk, and "the flesh flabby, they are stale. The greatest care sliordd be taken that I the fish is properly cleansed before being dressed, but not washed beyond what is absolutely necessary for cleansing, as by i perpetual watering the flavour is di- ) minished. When clean, if the fish is to i be boiled, some salt, and a little vinegar should be put into the water, to give it j firmness. Care should be taken to boil I the fish well, but not to let it break. Cod, 1 whiting, and haddock a^e much better for 1 being a little salted, and kept for a day. There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh-waterfisb, which may be ; got rid of by soaking it, after it has been I thoroughly cleaned in strong salt and water; or if the fish is not too large, I scald it in the same; then dry, and dress it. I • Care should be taken that the fish is put into cold water, and allowed to do very j gently, otherwise the outside will break > before the inside is done. • Crimp fish must be put into boiling I water; and as soon as it boils up, a little cold water should be put in, to ! °tack the excessive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. If the fish is not taken out of the water the instant it is done, it will become | woolly; to ascertain when it is ready, the fish-plate on which it is dressed may be drawn up, and if sufficiently done, it ■will leave the bone. To keep hot for serving, and to prevent it from losing its colour, the fish-plate should be placed | crosswise over the fish-kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. Small fish may be either nicely fried plain, or done over with egg and bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the fish is to be served should he placed a folded damask napkin, and upon this put the fish, with the liver and roe; then garnish the dish with horse- radish, parsley, and lemon. Fish is a dish which is almost more attended to than any other. To fry or broil fish properly, after it is well cleaned and washed, it" should be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprinkled all over with very fine bread crumbs; it will look still "better to be done over with egg and crumbs a second time. Then having on the fire a thick- bottomed frying-pan, with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot, put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably quick till it is done, and of a nice brown yellow. If it is done before it lias obtained a nice brown colour, the pan should be drawn to the side of the fire, the fish carefully taken up, and placed either upon a sieve turned upwards, or on the under side of a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, and finish browning ; if wanted particu- larly nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a much finer colour than when done in lard or dripping. Butter should never be used, as it gives a bad colour. Garnish your dish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with fried parsley. When fish is to be broiled, it must he seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean gridiron ; which, when hot, should be rubbed over with suet, to hinder the fish from sticking. It should be broiled over a very clear fire, to prevent its tast- ing smoky, and great care must be taken not to scorch it. Fish (New Method, of dressing.)* — Take any sort of fish you think proper, being very careful that it is quite fresh; clean it thoroughly, dry, and season it to your taste ; then put it (without any moisture), into a pan, which may be closely covered, with the exception of a small hole, to allow of evaporation. Put it into an oven as soon as the bread is drawn, and let it stand until the whole is so completely dissolved, that the hones are not perceptible. When cold, this makes a very transparent, well-flavoured jelly. htsii (Aspic of).—Put some warm sa- vory jelly, about an inch and a half deep, into a plain tin or copper mould; then take fresh smelts turned round, boil them. LFIS 252 FIS gently in strong salt and water till done, then lay them on a drainer. When the savory jelly in the mould is quite cold, put the smelts upon it, with the best side downwards; then put a little more jelly, just lukewarm, over the fish, and when that is cold, fill the mould with more of the same kind. When it is to be served to table, dip the mould in warm water, put the dish upon the jelly, and turn it over. Pieces of lobsters, fillets of soles, &c., may be done in the same manner. Fish (Consomme of)*—-Take carp, tench, perch, eels, pike, and other fresh- water fish of the same kind ; clean them well, and cut them into pieces, as near of a size as may be ; lay them in a stew-- pan, on a layer of sliced onions and car- rots ; as soon as they begin to sweat, put in a bit of butter, and leave them for a quarter of an hour; moisten them with fish broth, and let them boil gently for an hour; keep the pan closely covered ; this will afford a very nourishing broth. Fish (Entree of) in a Mould.—Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter; strew grated Parmesan cheese over the bottom, about an inch thick, and put a layer of boiled macaroni, of the same thickness, and upon that, fish of whatever sort you please, boned, cut into pieces, and strewed with herbs, such as parsley, thyme, and slialots, chopped very fine, and a little pounded spices and Cayenne pepper, then a layer of macaroni and Parmesan cheese. Put it into a moderate oven; let it bake one hour, then care- fully turn it out of the mould into a dish, and serve it to table, with a little good cullis round it. Fisii Fritters.—Make a light force- meat witli fish of any kind. Then put a small quantity into pieces of puff paste, the size of a common puff ; then lry them in boiling lard; drain them dry. Serve them to table with truffles, or bechamelle sauce round them. Fish (Glaze oj).*—Take some fish broth, to which add an eel, cut in pieces, and the beads, tails, fins, and large bones, of either sen or river fish ; wash them per- fectly clean, and chop them into small pieces. When they have been boiling in the broth for about an hour, strain off the liquor, and reduce it to a jelly, which is used to glaze all sorts of maigre dishes. Fish Gravy.—Cut two or three little fish of any kind into small pieces; put them into a saucepan, with rather more i water than will cover them, a bit of toasted bread, a blade of mace, some I lemon peel, whole pepper, and a bunch i, of sweet herbs; let it simmer gently till , it is rich and good ; brown a little bit of butter in a stewpan, and when it is browned, strain the gravy into it, and let ; it boil for a few minutes. Fisii Gravy.—Skin two or three eels, | or some flounders; gut and wash them I thoroughly; cut them into small pieces, | and put them into a saucepan ; cover them j with water, and add a little crust of bread, | toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon peel, an anchovy or two, and a ltttle horseradish, about a tea-spoonful; cover close, and let it simmer; add a bit of butter and some flour, and boil with the above. Fisii Gravy*—Put some slices of onion into a stewpan, and set them on the fire; when they are completely dissolved, add a piece of butter and some small fish, or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other you may find convenient. As soon as they begin to dissolve, and give out their moisture, put a glassful of root broth to them, and boil them for half an hour; then add a glass of white wine, and a little lemon juice, and boil it another half hour, when it may be pressed through a sieve, with great force. Fish Catsup.*—Take rather more than a pint of vinegar, three pints of red port, two table-spoonsful of pepper, pounded very fine, plenty of sbalots and horse- radish, the peel of half a lemon, and two or three bay leaves, and a pound ot an- chovies ; let the whole boil together until the anchovies are dissolved, then strum, and when cold, put it into bottles. Two or three spoonsful are sufficient for a pound of butter. Fish Fatties.—Take a carp, a tench, and an eel, boil them a little; half stew six oysters ; pick the flesh from the bones of the fish, and beat it together in a mortar, with the melts of the fish, some mace, and some white wine; mix them well together; make some rich puff paste, line the tins with it, then put in the forcemeat, with one oyster, and a bit ot butter; put on the top, and bake them. Fish (Pate Chaud e/).*— Cut a piece ot salmon into scallops, heat six ounces o fresh butter, and put into it two spoonsful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four ot truffles, and a shalot blanched, all shredFIS 353 FIS very small, a little nutmeg and salt; soak the scallops in this, and place them one bv one within the p/ite cliaud (see that article), pour over them the butter that remains, two bay leaves, and cover the whole with slices of bacon. Finish the pale according to rule, and bake it an hour and a quarter in a brisk oven. When done, garnish it with carp roes, crayfish tails, oysters, mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms and truffles, and a good espagnole or tomata sauce. Fish Pie.—Clean and cut fresh salmon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon, or haddocks, into moderate-sized pieces; then roll i them into a mixture made of parsley, thyme, and shalots, chopped fine, some ■ beaten spices, powder of mushrooms or ’ truffles, pepper, and salt; put them into 1 a deep dish with some light forcemeat round ; cover with puff paste; egg and ornament the top with leaves of paste, i bake it till the fish is perfectly done; i and a quarter of an hour before it is sent to table, put in some good strong cullis, ’ with a little Madeira added to it. Fish Pie.—Take any sort of fish you ■ please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, i &c„ and scale it, and cut it into pieces; i then line a pie-dish with crust, and put 1 the fish into it, with a bunch of sweet ■ herbs, some salt, and bruised spices, and : a layer of butter at the top ; after this put . on the top, and let it bake for an hour and a half. When done, take oft’ the fat, v and put in a good vegetable ragout made in the following manner : Stir a little i flour with butter over the fire till it is of a (fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half a pint of white wine, some soup maigre or warm water, and add mushrooms, a j bunch of herbs, and a little salt, let the ; whole boil half an hour, and then add the isolt roes of carp, parboiled; let them stew a quarter of an hour, and then put the ragout into the pies. Any sort of 1 vegetable ragout may be made use of, in- 1 stead of the above in these pies, such as of truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads of asparagus. Fisii Maigre Pie.—Bone and cut into pieces a carp; make it into forcemeat 'vith some of the roe, parsley, thyme, shalots chopped very fine, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, salt, a little pound- ed spice, half a pint of cream, four eggs, at>d the crumb of a French roll. Aftcr- "’ards take pieces of eel, salmon and skate, pass them with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a bit of butter. When they are cold, put some of the forcemeat at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix with the fish some stewed mushrooms, the very smallest onions, truffles and morels blanched, and the roe cut into pieces, and put them into the dish with more forcemeat round the top; then cover with puff paste, ornament with leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When it is to be served to table, cut a small hole in the centre of the top, and pour in some good cullis. Fish (Salt).—Salted fish requires soak- ing, according to the time it has been in salt; that which is hard and dry, requires two nights’ soaking, changing the water two or three times ; the intermediate time lay it on a stone floor ; Barreled Cod re- quires less soaking; and for the best Dogger Bank Split Fish, which has not been in salt more than a fortnight or three weeks, still less soaking will be necessary. Fisii Sauce.—Take some mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your fish. Put it into a saucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of ketchup, and a glass of white wine. Thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. If you cannot procure cream, instead>c white wine you must use red. Fisii Sauce (to keep) a Year*—Take forty anchovies, chop them up, bones and all, put to them ten shalots cut small, a hand- ful of scraped horseradish, a quarter of ail ounce of mace, a quart of white wine, a pint of water, one lemon cut in slices, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a pint of red wine, twelve cloves, and twelve peppercorns. Boil the whole together till it is reduced to a quart; then strain it, put it into a bottle, and cork it close ; keep it in a cold dry place. One tea-spoonful will be sufficient for half a pound of butter. Warm the sauce first, and then put the butter in to melt, with a little flour. Fish Sauce without Butter.—Let a quar- ter ol a pint of vinegar, and half a pint of water (the-water must not be hard) simmer very gently, with an onion, half a handful of horseradish, four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper, these spices should be slightly bruised. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with a couple of anchovies, and set the whole to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, the yolks of threo fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and whenFLO *254 FIS tliey aie well mixed set the saucepan over a moderate fire, holding a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, to prevent the eggs from curdling. Do not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce a la Craster.—Tliicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then add to it a pound of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of mace pounded, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, some savory, thyme, basil, knotted marjoram, a little parsley and sliced horse- radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer the whole gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it into bottles for use ; the proper way to use it is by putting some of it into the butter while melting. Fish Sauce (Excellent).—Put a pint of remarkably fine port wine into a tin sauce- pan, with a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut ketchup, twelve anchovies with the liquor belonging to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five slialots, some Cayenne pepper according to taste, three ounces of scraped horseradish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard ; let the whole boil gently till the rawness is taken off; then put it into small bottles for use. They must be corked very close, and sealed at the top. Fish Sauce (White).—Simmer to the quantity required, an anchovy, a glass of white wine, a bit of horseradish, two or three blades of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon peel, and a quarter of a pint of water; strain it, put in two spoonsful of cream, a large bit of butter mixed well with some flour ; keep stirring it till it boils, add a little ketchup, squeeze in a little lemon juice when off the fire. More wine may be added if agreeable. Fish Soup.—Take pieces of different sorts offish, such as the salmon, skate, sole, &c.; sweat them till tender, with turnip, nion, celery, a clove of garlic, and a blade of mace ; then add some plain veal broth. Simmer the whole together for half an hour; then strain, and skim it free from fat; season with salt and Cayenne pepper, clear it with white of egg, and colour with a little saffron. It may be served to table with celery or rice in it. Fisii (Tureen of).—Take fresh-water fish of any kind, or dift'erent sorts together. If they be dressed en gras, stew them with a few slices of ham and veal, a little broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet--j herbs, two cloves, one of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a few slices of bacon, pepper, and salt; when done, drain then from the j liquor, and put the fish in a tureen ; add a little cullis to their broth, skiin it, sift it. I in a sieve, and serve upon the fish : you may add what sorts of ragout you choose, i If it is to be maigre, braise the fish as.- such, and serve with their sauce, or withe peas or lentil cullis. Observe, that tench a must be scalded before they are dressed;.! but the scales must be left upon pike and perch until they are done, which willl give the meat a better colour and a finer i white. FLIP (to make a Quart of).—Put the j ale on the fire to warm, and beat up three ■ or four eggs, with four ounces of moist- sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg or: ginger, and a quartern of good old rum or brandy. When the ale nearly boils put it! into one pitcher, and the rum, eggs. See. into another; turn it from one to another; till it is as smooth as cream. FLOUNDERS (to choose). — They I should be thick and stiff, their eyes bright; and full, and must be dressed as fresh as possible, as they very soon become flabby! and bad. They are both a sea and river: fish; they are in season from January to March, and from July- to September. Flounders (Boiled).—Put on a stewpanrj with a sufficient quantity of water to cover : the flounders which are to be dressed: put in some vinegar and horseradish ; when the water boils put in the fish, having been first well cleaned, and their fins cut off; ! they must not boil too fast tor fear they should break ; when they are sufficiently t done, lay them on a fish-plate, the tails in the middle. Serve them with parsley and butter. Flounders a la Bonne Femme*—Butter a disb, and lay in it three or four flounders, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a glass of white wine or water, and grated bread over the whole ; cover your dish, and set it on a stove for ten minutes ; take it off and I serve. , Flounders (Broiled).* — Cleanse am wash as many flounders as you may re- quire, dry and rub them over with oil, and sprinkle salt and pepper on them, 3.r reeds across your gridiron, and place your fish on these; broil them over a slow fire.FLO 255 FLU and serve them with an Italienne maigre, capers, or any other sauce you may think proper to use. Flounders (Broiled).*—Steep your fish in pil mixed with pepper, parsley, and young- onions, all carefully taken out before the fish is served ; whilst broiling baste with the marinade, that is, the oil and herbs, and serve with whatever sauce you think ; proper. Flounders ( Fricasseed ). — Carefully clean the fish, and take off the black skin, but not the white; cut the flesh from : the bones into long slices, and dip them in yolk of egg ; strew them over with bread raspings, and fry them in clarified butter; when they are sufficiently done, lay them on a plate, and keep them hot. For sauce, t take the bones of the fish, boil them in ,1 water; then put in an anchovy, some thyme, parsley, a little pepper, salt, cloves, and mace; let these simmer till the anchovy is dissolved; then take the butter the fish i was hied in, put it into a pan over the fire, • shake some flour into it, and keep it stirring whilst the flour is shaking in ; then strain the liquor into it, and boil it till it becomes thick ; squeeze some lemon juice into it; place the fish in a dish, and pour the : sauce over them. _ Flounders (Fried).—Wellrub themin- : side and out with salt, then let them lie for two hours, to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg, cover them with crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. F lounder Pie. — Thoroughly clean some flounders, dry them in a cloth, just boil them, cut off'the flesh close to the bone, lay a good crust over the dish, and lay a little butter at the bottom ; then put in the fish; season with pepper and salt to your palate ; boil the bones in the water the fish was boiled in, with a little bit of horseradish, a little parsley, a very small piece of lemon peel, and a crust of bread; 1 boil it till there is just liquor enough for f tJJe pie. then strain it, and put it into the dish; put on the top, and let it bake. I Flounders (Stewed).—Take some floun- i ^ers utl(l fry them of a nice brown; then ! take them up, and add to the butter they Were fried in, a sufficient quantity of water to make sauce for the fish that are done ; to a quart of water two anchovies and an onion cut in slices, a spoonful of ketchup, and two spoonsful of red wine ; lot it simmer a quarter of an hour; then put it to the fish, and let them stew gently a quarter of ™ hour; then take them out, put them tuto a warm dish, and thicken the sauce, with butter and flour; give it a boil, and strain it oft ; pour it over the fish. FLOWERS in Sugar,—Clarify sugar to a caramel height, which may be known by dipping in a fork, and if it throws the su- gar as fine as threads, put in die flowers. Have ready some tea-cups, with the in- sides rubbed with sweet oil; put into each cup four table-spoonsful of the su°-ar and flowers, and when cold turn them out of the cups, and serve them to table piled one upon another. FLUMMERY. — Steep three large handsful of very small white oatmeal a day and night in cold water; then pour it off clear, add as much more water, and let it stand another day and anight. Then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it tilljt is of the consistence ofhastypudding-, keep- ing it well stirred all die time it is boiling. When first strained, put to it one lar°-e spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Pour it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk or cream, and sugar. Flummery (Dutch).—Boil very gently for half an hour two ounces of isinglass in three half pints . of water ; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons and the thin rind of one, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more siwar as will make it sufficiently sweet; and hav- ing beaten up die yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour the whole into a basin; stir it till it is half cold ; then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. \ Flummery (French).—Beat an ounce of isinglass fine, put it into a quart of cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour’ keeping it stirring all the time. Then take it off, sweeten it with fine powder sugar, putin a spoonful of rose and another of orange-flower water, strain it through a sieve, and stir it till half cold. Put it into a mould or basin, and when cold, turn it into a dish, and garnish with cur-, rant jelly. Flummery (Oatmeal).—Boil four quarts of water ; when it is rather warmer than milk from the cow, put to it two quarts of oatmeal just cracked; when it has stood till sour, pour off the water, wash the flour out well through a sieve, with three quarts of fresh water; let this stand twenty-four hours, then pour the water clear oft', leaving the thick ; to one cup of which measure three of milk; set it over the fire, stirring-FON 256 FOR it; when it begins to curdle, put it through a sieve, set the liquor again on the fire ; repeat this, passing it through the sieve so long as it curdles ; then boil it for twenty minutes ; put it into cups first dipped in water. If the water stands upon the oatmeal fourteen or twenty days, according to the weather, so that it only turns sour, not mouldy, the better the flummery will he. Flummery (to make a Temple in).—Di- vide a quart of stiff flummery into three parts, colour one part pink with a little bruised cochineal, steeped in French brandy. Scrape an ounce of chocolate, dissolve it in a little strong coffee, and mix it with another part of the flummery, which will make it a stone colour, and have the last part white; then wet the temple mould, and fit it in a pot to make it stand even. Fill the bottom of the temple with pink flummery for the steps, the four points with white, and fill the rest up with the chocolate flummery, and let it stand till the next day; then loosen it very gently from the mould, and turn it out. Stick sprigs of flowers from the top of every point, which will strengthen it ,and give it a neat appearance. Lay round it rock candy sweetmeats for garnish. Flummery (Welsh).—Put a little isin- glass to a quart of stiff hartshorn jelly ; add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy, and some lemon juice and sugar; boil this till it is thick, then strain it; you may add, if you choose, three ounces of almonds, blanched and pounded; and about ten hitter ones. FONDUES.—Put some grated Parme- san cheese into a basin, with pepper and a little melted butter, and the yolks of eggs ; stir them together ; whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, ancl add them a little at a time, to the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as you can, and hake them, like biscuits, in a moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as possible after they are done. Another iray.—Make a white roux with about a quarter of a pound of butter and flour; add half a pint of boiling milk ; stir till quite stiff over the fire, then add the yolks of about seven eggs ; stir them in quickly and then mix about halt a pound of good Parmesan cheese grated, a little mixed mustard, salt, and Cayenne, and a little chopped parsley ; put them into a marble mortar and pound them well. When cold, add the whites of seven eggs lightly to it, when heat to a strong froth. Put into paper cases, and hake in a quick oven. Send immediately to table when done, or they are good for nothing. FORCEMEAT (Ingredients for).— Forcemeat shouldbe made sufficient!}- con- ; sistent’to cut with a knife, but not dry or heavy. No one flavour should predomi- nate greatly ; according to what it is wanted for, a selection may be made from the following list, being careful to use the least of those articles which are the most-’ pungent: Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fat bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, , white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks and whites of eggs, well beaten, to bind the mixture. The forcemeat may he made with any of these articles without any striking flavour; :j therefore any of the following different in- -! gredients may he made use of to vary the taste : Oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory; ! pennyroyal, knotted maijoram, thyme, , basil, yolks of hard eggs, Cayenne, garlic, . shalots. chives, Jamaica pepper, in fmer| powder, or two or three cloves. To force or stuff turkeys, geese, ducks, . &c. see under the heads of the different t ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. Forcemeat.—Take an equal quantity of lean veal scraped, and beef suet shred; :) heat them in a marble mortar ; add pepper, ,j salt, cloves, pounded lemon peel, and nut- - meg grated, parsley and sweet herbs, chopped fine, a little shalot and young : onion, a few bread crumbs grated fine, and ' yolk of egg sufficient to work it light; roll this into balls with a little flour ; if for white sauce, boil them ; if for brown sauce, fry them. Forcemeat Balls for Fish Soups, or Fish stewed.—Beat the flesh and soft parts of a : middling-sized lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, one spoonful of oyster | liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, two eggs beaten for a long time ; make into halls, and fry them of a nice brown colour in butter. Forcemeat (Collops of).*—Mince some meat, and put it on the fire with a slice o butter; a little parsley and green onions, shred fine; shake in a little flour an moisten with stock ; add pepper, and re duce to a thick sauce that will adhere the meat; then leave it to cool; then t257 FOR FOR make a paste with flour and water, and a little butter and salt; knead and roll it with a rollingpin, as thin as a halfcrown ; place your meat upon it in small parcels, a full finger’s distance from each other; wet the paste all round the meat, and then cover it with paste rolled to the same thickness as that on which you placed the meat, pinching the paste round the parcels of meat with your fingers. Cut the collops separate, and fry them of a nice colour. Forcemeat of Fish.—Take two ounces of either turbot, soles, lobster, shrimps, or | oysters, free from skin, put it into a mor- i tar with two ounces of fresh butter, one i ounce of bread crumbs, the yolks of two ! eggs boiled hard, a little shalot, grated lemon peel, and parsley, minced very fine ; then pound it well till it is thoroughly well mixed and quite smooth ; season it with Cayenne to your taste, break in one whole egg, rub it well together, it will then be ready for use. Oysters, parboiled and minced fine, and an anchovy, may be added. Forcemeat for Fowls or Meat.—Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal or fowl, some beef suet, a little onion, some parsley, very small quantity of lemon peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper, or Cayenne, and some bread crumbs. Pound the whole in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs, beaten and strained. Fokcemeat for Hare.—Two ounces of. beef suet, chopped fine, three ounces of" bread crumbs, grated flue, parsley, shalot, marjoram, lemon thyme, lemon peel, nut- meg, pepper, and salt, according to taste, and mix all together with an egg. If the liver of the hare is quite sound it may be parboiled, minced very fine, and mixed with the above ingredients, i, Forcemeat for Raised Pies.—Set over the fire, with a small piece of butter, some chopped parsley, lemon thyme, mushrooms, and one clove of garlic, and stir them till , Gutter begins to look clear; then put in ■the crumb of a French roll, and cover it r'tth good stock ; stir it over the fire till it has boiled to a paste, then take it off: then set on the fire, in cold water, with some |®| , a dozen fat chickens’ livers; when hey begin to boil, take them off, drain hem from the water (trim off any parts h mt look bad), and fry them in a little cla- i led butter till done; then pound them 1 ln a mortar till they are smooth, with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard ; then add to them two ounces of fat from a fillet of veal that has been dressed : mix it well together; add the bread, &c., and thorough- ly pound the whole ; when they are well mixed, put in two or three bits of truffles, or the liquor from them ; two whole eggs, and the yolks of three, with pepper, salt, and pounded spice, according to taste; rub the whole through a fine^hair si6vg, put it in ci basin, and covnr it with lards of fat bacon, until it is wanted for use. Forcemeat for Turtle.—One pound of fine fresh suet, one pound of veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little sha- lot or onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, basil, marjoram, parsley’ and lemon thyme, finely shred. Beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites, sepa- rately, as will make the ingredients into a moist paste; roll it into small balls, and fry them in fresh lard. When they are of a light brown colour, then take them out and drain them before the fire. If the suet happens to be moist or stale, it will be ne- cessary to use more eggs. Balls made this way are remarkably light, but ratber greasy ; some people pre- fer them with less suet and eggs. Forcemeat Patties.—Make a farce the same as for Rato Forcemeat Pie, only chop it smaller, and let the crust be a rich puff paste ; cut it to the size of the patty moulds, fill them with theybree, being first rubbed with butter ; cover them with puff paste, and let them bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour; when ready to serve, add a little warm cullis with the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat for Pies.—Take a pound of fillet of veal, a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, and some beef marrow ; season with pepper, cloves, and grated nutmeg; then add some veal sweetbreads, truffles, and muslu-ooms, mincing up the whole together very fine. Instead of veal, you may use, if you please, the white part of any poultry or game, or both in equal quantities, and instead of pork, sausage meat. It is with this stuffing or forcemeat that meat pies are garnished. If y0U desire to make this forcemeat into balls, add the yolks of eggs aud roll them in flour. Forcemeat Pie*—Take any sort of meat, either a tender piece of beef, fillet of veal, leg of mutton, game, or poultry, and chop it up with the same quantity of beef suet, parsley,youngonions, and mushrooms shred fine, and season with salt and mixed258 FOW FOW spices, moistening with two eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream. When the force- meat is finished, cover the bottom of a pie- dish with paste, and put the forcemeat over it about the thickness of an inch, completing the pie the same as all others. Let it bake for two hours, but if made of beef or mutton still longer. When it is done, open the pie, cut the forcemeat into squares, skim off the fat, and put in a good cullis. Forcemeat (Paw) Pie.—Take fillet of Teal chopped, with calf's udder scalded, raw breasts of poultry, beef suet, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two or three raw eggs ; when well pounded and seasoned, make it into balls, or into the shape of sausages ; put them into the pie, and if you choose you may add artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, sweetbreads, &c., with some butter; finish the same as all other pies. Forcemeat for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod.—Take equal quantities of fat bacon, beef suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savory, a small quantity of onion, and a few leaves of scented marjo- ram, shred fine, and one or two anchovies, a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be a great improvement, either with or without anchovies; add bread crumbs, and an egg to bind. Forcemeat (Portuguese) for baked Soles. —Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlic or shalot, some par- sley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; pound the whole fine with a few bread crumbs added to it, and bind with the yolks of two or three eggs. FOWLS (Directions for choosing and dressing.)—When a cock is young his spurs are short; take care that you are not deceived by their having been cut or pared, a trick that is often practised. If fresh their vent will be close and dark. Hens are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg; if they are old their combs and legs are rough. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with paper. The cook should be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall- bag, for no washing will take oft the bitter where it has touched. If for roasting, black-legged fowls are the most moist. A good-sized fowl will tuke from three quarters of an hour to an hour in roasting; a middling-sized one about half an hour; and a very small one, or chicken, twenty minutes. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted, that they may be served with a froth, and ! appear of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. Serve with egg sauce, bread 1 sauce, or garnished with sausages or scalded i parsley. A large barn-door fowl, well hung, , should be stuffed in the crop with sausage » meat, and served with gravy in the dish, . and with bread sauce. The head should be turned under the - wing like a turkey'. For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged; pick them carefully, singe, . wash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them in boiling water ; a good-sized i one will be done in half an hour. Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. It for1 dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is com- ■ monly served with them. Fowls are trussed in the same manner as chickens (see Chickens). Fowls (Bechamelle of) au Gratia.*— Put half a dozen spoonsful of beohamelle and some stock into a saucepan ; let it boil, and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon ; take the remains of some roasted fowls, and having minced it very small, put it into the bcchamelle ; stir it lightly, and then pour it into a silver dish : beat up the white of an egg, spread it over the mince, strew on it grated bread crumbs, and Parmesan cheese ; pour a little melted butter over the whole, and colour it with a salamander. Towns boiled with Pice.—Stew a fowl in some well-skimmed clear mutton or veal broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pep- per, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve, covered, before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice rouud it without the broth. The less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. Serrts with gravy or parsley and butter for sauce. Fowl. (Boudins of)-*—-Sprinkle some flour on a table, and lay on it so me. farce a Quenelles, make into whatever fonns vou may think proper, and poach them ; tflenFOW 259 FOW drain, and coyer them with bread crumbs ; broil and serve them on a half glaze. Fowl a la Braise.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, and cover it all over with thin slices of bacon. Wrap round it 1 beet leaves, then in veal caul, and put it into a large saucepan with three pints of - water, a glass of Madeira, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few blades of mace, and half a lemon. Stew it till it is quite tender; then take it up and skim off the fat; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and strain it through a hair sieve; put to it a pint of oysters and a tea-cupful of thick cream, t Keep shaking your pan over the fire, and i when it has simmered a little, serve up your fowls with the bacon, beet leaves, j and caul still on, and pour the sauce hot ' over it. Garnish with barberries, or red |i beetroot. Fowl «la Braise.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, season the inside with pep- '] per and salt; put at the bottom of the vessel a slice or two of beef, lay over the fowl some thin slices of lean bacon, and bits of veal, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, half a le- mon, pepper, and salt; set this over a slow fire for ten minutes, then put to it about three pints of beef broth or warm water • warm a glass of Madeira and pour in : stew this till the fowl is tender, strain the gravy through a piece of dimity, the rough side upwards, first dipped in cold water; mix a little flour with it, boil it up, and serve it over the fowl. Oysters are a great addition. Fowls [Broiled).—Take a large fowl, and cut it into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit, and half-roast; or half-roast the whole | ‘Owl, and finish either on the gridiron, by which means it will he less dry than if 'done wholly on the gridiron. If you half- roast the fowl whole, it must be split down the back afterwards, then peppered, 3 salted, and broiled. Fowl (Broiled).—Split them down the hack, well salt and pepper them; then £ broil them. Serve with mushroom sauce. |T *0WL " Campine, with raw Onions.— '! truss a fowl with the legs outward, and ‘V 11 m“st be of a good colour. " f hen done, slit the breast, cut raw onions F m slices, which you should introduce into •he shts you have made, and send it to mble with a brown poivrade highly sea- soned, and very hot. Fowl [Capilotade c/V_Take the re- sins of a ready-dressed fowl, and put them into a stewpan; then do up some parsley, shalots, and four mushrooms, all shred small, in a little butter; as soon as the latter becomes liquid, add four ladies- ful of espagnote, and two of consomme, re- duce, and skim it; pour it on your fowl, set it on the fire to simmer for a quarter ol an hour ; before you send it to table, season it. Fowl [to dress cold).—Cut a fowl into quartets, and beat up one or two e,-<rs ~ grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little sauce, some chopped parsley, and a few bread crumbs ; beat them well ton-ether, and dip the fowl into this mixture” then fry them of a fine light brown ; prepare a little good gravy, thickened with a little flour, and put ina spoonful of ketchup : lay the fried fowl in a dish, and pour the gravy- over it ; yon may garnish with lemon or a few mushrooms. Fowl Cream.—Pound the white parts of some roasted fowls, with a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds ; when it be- comes a fine paste, dilute it with half a pint of cream; strain, and then cook it in the bain-marie. Fowl a. la Creme.—This dish is made of a cold fowl, either roasted or stewed - you take off the breast and fleshy part of the fowl, by cutting it square all through r with a little bread toasted, and dipped°in butter, stop the aperture; then fill tbs fowl with farce d la creme; then make a kind of wall round the fowl with buttered paper, cover the same with bacon, to pre- vent the fowl from getting too much colour. If this dish is to he placed on the flanks of the table in the second course, some of the same farce may be served on toasts cut in the shape of hearts or lozenges, which are called temoins. Ihese are to. he baked in the oven, the same as the fowls, and the fat to be well drained : serve with a thin espagnote sauce, or velouti'. The toast must be fried before thejarce is put over it. Fowl (Cromasquis of).—This dish is prepared in the same manner, as the cro- quettcs of fowls; but each ball is wrapped ui thin slices of cold cnlf s udder, and dipped in batter. Fry them, and serve on fried parsley. Fowl [Croquettes of).*—Take all the meat irom a fat chicken, remove the sinews and skin, mince it very small; put into a saucepan two ladlesful oft>elout£; when well reduced, add the yolks of four eggs, then the mince; mix them together, and then take it from the firo; make it into s 2row SCO FOW Falls the size of walnuts, which (when cold), roll in bread crumbs, give them rather a long than round form, dip them in egg, bread them a second time, and fry them in hot /riture. Fowls Davenport Fashion.—Take the livers, hearts, and most tender parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary; an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks ot four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, according to taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, to prevent the water from getting in; boil them in salt and water till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of butter to brown them. Serve them with melted butter, and a spoonful of any ketchup vou please in the dish. Fowl a la Dreui.—The fowl being trussed, if you wish to give additional firmness to the skin and flesh, have some boiling water ready, then lay hold of the fowl by the saddle, dip the breast in the water, and then dip it in cold water; when the fowl is quite cold, cut some ham into long squares; lard the breast of the fowl in imitation of a draft-hoard, put it into a stewpan, trimmed all round with fat bacon, and moisten with po'cle, there must be a brisk fire over it, and a slow one under it, as it will be sufficiently done in three quarters of an hour at the most. Dry the bacon with a salamander, glaze of a good colour, and serve with a sauce a VAllemande. Fowl (Fillets of ) en Chemise.*—Take as many fillets of fowl as you may require, and cut them into thin slices ■ make a good farce, in which roll each of the slices, so that they may be completely wrapped in; enclose these little fillets each in a piece of caul, place them on a skewer, and roast them. Serve them with veal grflvy, or fowl consomme* Fowl (Fillets of) larded.*—Take the fillets from three fine fowls, leaving on the ends of the pinions, trim, and lard them ; stick the end of the pinion under- neath each, to give them a better form; line the bottom of your stewpan with roots, spice, and bacon, put into it three ladiesful of stock, on which place your fillets, with a piece of buttered paper; set the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil, but not too fast: cover the lid with fire, and if in three quarters of an hour your stock be not sufficiently reduced, make a better fire, and let it stand a quarter ot an hour longer. Dip the larded side of your fillets into the glaze, and serve them with, an espaguole travuilLe underneath: to which may be added the jelly your fillets were cooked in. Fowl ( Forced.)—'Take a large fowl, pick it clean, cut it down the back, draw it, then ,take off the skin whole, cut the flesh from the bone, and chop it up with half a pint of oysters, an ounce of beef marrow, and a little pepper and salt; mix it up with cream, lay the meat on the bones, draw the skin over it and sew up the back, cut large thin slices of bacon, lay them over the breast of the fowl, and tie the bacon on with packthread. It will take an hour to roast before a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy sauce, pour it into the dish, take the bacon off, lay the fowl in the gravy, and serve. Garnish with oysters, mushrooms, or pickles. _ » Fowl en Fricandeau.—Cut a fowl in two, and bone it thoroughly, make a forcemeat of sweetbread, cut into large dice, a few fat livers, truffles, or mush- rooms, or both, chopped parsley, shalots, and scraped bacon, mixed with the yolks of three eggs, pepper, and salt; fill the fowl with this farce, sew it up, and give it a fry in butter for a moment; then lard it like a fricandeau ; braise it in broth, with a few slices of veal and bacon : when done, sift and skim the sauce, re- duce it to a glaze, and glaze the fowl with it. Serve with whatever sauce you think proper. Fowl (Fried), a VIndienne.-—Slice some onions and fry them in lard till they become of a nice brown colour, adding a pinch of flour; when the onions are suf- ficiently done, take them out with the skimmer, and keep them liot. Have ready a fowl cut up as for fricassee, and the pieces blanched in boiling water. Put the pieces of fowl in the lard in which the onions were fried, till they also become of a nice colour; then pour upon them some stock, adding salt, allspice, Cayenne pepper, and a little turmeric or Indian saffron; when the fowl is done enough, put in the fried onions ; boil the whole for two or three minutes, and serve, send- ing up, separately, a dish of rice. Fowl with the' Flavour of Game, las a rahbit that has been kept a long tune, and cut the meat of it into tlnn slices, lay them on a dish, and season them wit6 pepper and salt, chopped parsley, chibDoi. shalots, and a little sweet oil; split aFOW FOW 261 at the back, bone it all to the legs and wings, stuff' it with this, then sew it up, and give it its natural form ; braise it with slices of veal and ham, covered over with slices of bacon ; soak it about a quarter of an hour; then add a glass of white wine, a little broth, a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. When done, sift and skim the sauce ; add a little cullis, and serve it over the fowl. Fowl (Glased).-—-This is braised and glazed in the same way as Fold en Fri- : candeau, only with this difference, that } it is done without stuffing. Serve with - its own sauce, or any other, if you like if better. Fowl with its own Gravy.—Trass a i fowl the same as for boiling, lard it quite through with bacon, ham, and parsley; : put it in a pan with a little butter, two or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of j sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a glass of white wine; stew them gentlj’- till they are done; skim and strain the sauce, and serve it with the fowl. Fowl (Guinea and Pea).—They eat much the same as pheasants. They should be dressed in the same manner, except when larded; then, of course, they require no bacon to be laid over them. Fowl (Hashed).—Cut it into pieces, and put it into some gravy with a little cream ketchup, grated lemon peel, andnut- meg, a few oysters and their liquor, a bit of butter mixed with flour; keep it stirring until the butter is melted, lay sippets in a dish, putin thehash and serve. Fowl as a Hedgehog.—Make a farce with the liver chopped, scraped bacon, parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt, and stuff a fowl with it; truss it the same ns for roasting, give it a few turns over the fire in butter ; then lard it close with slices of ham and bits of truffles, to stick pretty far out; roast it, basting often with good oil. Serve with consomme and cullis sauce, and a little juice of lemon. Fowl (Hodgepodge of).—Cut a fowl [ lnt0 quarters, and braise it with pickled 1 pork; make a good ragout witli small ’ om°ns, all sorts of roots cut differently, and the braised pork; intermix all well on the dish, and serve with a thick cullis 1 8auce. You may put to it any sort of 1 J"604 you choose, taking care that the | hardest kind is boiled proportionubly. Fowl (Legs of) upon Ashes.—Garnish ; stewpan with slices of veal, and a good slice of ham ; put the legs of fowls upon these, being first larded through and through,’ with well-seasoned lardons ; ;add a tea-spoonful of brandy, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, and over that, white paper; simmer both, under and over ; they will furnish sufficient sauce, which must be properly sifted ; but if not a sufficient quantity, add a little cullis, and one squeeze of lemon. Fowl (Legs oj ) garnished.—Braise four legs of fowls with a dozen of small onions, broth, a few slices of bacon, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, thyme, and bay leaves : when it is half done, add an eel cut in pieces, six crayfish, half a glass of white wine, pepper, and salt; let it braise slowly : when all is done, take the bottom of the braise, sift, and skim it very clean from fat; add a few spoonsful of cullis (two or three), aud reduce it to the consistence of a sauce ; intermix the fowl and other things properly on the dish, with the onions, and a few bits of fried bread ; pour the sauce over all, with a lemon squeeze. Fowl (Legs of) au Prince.—Soak a few anchovies and bits of fresh ham, cut as for larding, and when you think they have lost their saltness, drain them; lard as many legs of fowl as will make a good-sized dish, marinate them some time, with a glass of white wine, a lemon cut into slices, pepper, and salt; make a stuffing with butter, chopped parsley, shalots, and capers; put each leg into a bit of puff paste, together with the mari- nade, mixed with the stuffing ; bake them in a slow oven; and when done, take off the puff' paste and serve with a good sauce. Fowl (to marinate).—Take a large fowl, and with your finger raise the skin from the breastbone. Cut a venl sweetbread very small, a few oysters, a few mush- rooms, an anchovy, some pepper, a little nutmeg, some lemon peel, and a small portion of thyme. Chop all small, and mix it together with the yolk of an egg; stuff it in between the skin and the flesh, being very careful not to break the skin, and then fill the body of the fowl with oysters. Then lard the breast of the fowl with bacon; cover it with paper, and roast it. Make a good gravy. Garnish with lemon, and send it to table. Fowl (Moor), or Moor Game.—Moor fowl should bo treated the same as par- tridges; sometimes a bit of bread, fried brown in butter, is served under them.FOW FOW 262 Fowl (Moor) with Bed Cabbage.—Truss the moor game as for boiling; put them on with a little soup ; stew them l'or half an Lour; cut a stock of red cabbage in four quarters, put it to the moor fowl; season with white pepper and salt, a small bit of butter rolled in flour, and a glass of red wine. Lift out the cabbage, and arrange it neatly in the dish, the moor fowl on it. Pour the sauce over them, and garnish with small slices of fried bacon. Fowl (Moor), or Moor Game, to Pot.— Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely ; then dry them, and well season them in- side and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Put them in as small a pot as will hold them; cover them with butter, and bake them in a very slow oven. When they are cold, take off the butter; dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot; they should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, being very careful that it does not oil. The best method of warming it is by putting it in a basin, and setting the basin in hot water. Or rather the better way is, when boned and well seasoned, to £11 them with a rich farce, line the pot with slices of fat* bacon, then surround that with farce or forcemeat; then put in your birds, cover them with farce, then with fat bacon, and bake; adding some fresh butter. Fowl with Olives.—Truss and dress a fowl the same as Fowl a la Dreux. Then take some olives, which should be blanched till they are no longer briny. Next boil them in a thin espagnole. Skim the sauce, and add a little lemon juice, and pour it under the fowl. Serve with some stuffed olives, without stones. Turn the olives with a knife, so os to take out the stones, and leave the olives whole. Fowl (Panada of).—Boil a bit of crumb of bread in some good broth, add to it the Lreastof a couple of fowls, roasted, and very finely pounded; sift all together in a cloth, will) strong pressing, and add broth accord- ing to the consistence you would have it. Fowl with Bice.—Boil a pint of rice in as much water as will cover it, with black pepper, a few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves, tied up in a bit of cloth ; when the rice is tender, take out the spice ; stir in a piece of butter ; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon ; lay them in the dish, cover them with the rice : lay round the dish, and upon the rice, hard eggs, cut in halves, quarters, and lengthwise, with onions, first boiled, and then fried. Fowl with Bice, another way.—Take a fowl trussed for boiling, soak in water, drain it, and put it to some good veal. broth, or water sufficient to cover it; . a handful of rice washed, a blade of mace, , some whole pepper in a bag, a bunch . of parsley, and some salt, boil and skim it, when very tender, serve in a deep dish, , with the rice and broth round it. Fowl (Pudding of) a la Beine.—This dish is made of cold fowls. Take the breast . and fleshy parts of several fowls, and cut . them into small dice, all of an equal size. . Throw these dice into a reduction of ve- loute, and season them well; then put them into a dish that they may cool. When this preparation is quite cold, cut it into two equal parts, which you must make into puddings of a long shape, the size of the dish ; roll them in crumbs of bread ; then dip them into egg, and roll them again in bread. You must be careful that the ex- tremities are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will break in the frying- pan. When they are fried to a good co- lour, drain them, wipe off the grease with a clean towel, and serve with a thin ve- loute, or green parsley fried between. Fowl (Puree of).*—Take all the white part of three cold roast fowls, and pound it; then add about an ounce of calf s udder, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; pound them all together until well mixed. Dis- solve two spoonsful of white jelly or con- somme, and three of becliamelle or leloute; and when liquid, add to it the pounded meat; stir them together over the fire, but do not let it boil; strain it into another vessel, and keep it hot in the bain-marie; serve it with bread in the usual manner. Fowls (Quenelles of ).*—Take the breasts of four fow’ls, and scrape the meat off with a knife ; pound it well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve into a plate : soak die crumb of a French roll in milk till quite soft, then put it into a clodi to press out all the moisture, and pound as much of that as you have meat; then take an equal quantity of veal udder or butter, and beat it up with the bread, until die butter can- not be distinguished, when the fowl should he added, and all three ingredients pounded togedier ; to this put four yolks of eggs, or more if necessary, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; when the whole is well pounded, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix them in lightly ; poach a little of it to try if it be "sufficiently seasoned, and then set it aside for use. Fowl (Quenelles qf).*—Take a dessert-FOW 265 FOW spoonful of farce u quenelles, and smooth it with the blade of a knife, in warm water; lay it on a buttered saucepan-lid, and when you have done as many as J'ou wish to have, put them gently into boiling water, with a little salt in it, and set them by the side of the stove that they may not boil too fast; tu.n them lightly with the back of a spoon, and when they begin to swell, drain them on a cloth; dish, and pour over them a reduced fowl consomme. Fowls (Roasted).—Roast them before a clear fire ; froth them up when nearly done, by sprinkling them over with flour and salt, and basting them with butter. When i done, be careful in taking out the skewers. Serve them with very good clear gravy in the dish, and bread or egg- sauce in a boat. Fowl ( Roasted) with Chestnuts.—Roast some chestnuts very carefully, so that they may not be burnt, then take off the skins, and peel them. Take about a dozen of them, cut them small, and bruise them in a mortar. Parboil the liver of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. Then mix them all together, with a good quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When these are all well mixed together, put it into your fowl, and roast it. The best way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roast, with a string, and then baste it with butter. For the sauce, take the rest of the chest- nuts, peel and skin them, put them into 1 some good gravy, with a little white ' wine ; and thicken it with a piece of but- 1 *er rolled in flour ; add cullis. Then place your fowl in the dish ; pour in the sauce; 1 garnish them with lemon, and serve. Fowls roasted like Pheasant. —They must be full grown ; leave the heads on ; truss them like pheasants; lard them with bacon and roast them. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. Fowl (Roasted) with a Ragout of Ousters. ' Make a forcemeat, to which add a dozen 1 oysters ; stuff the craw ; cover the breast of the fowl with slices of bacon, then a F8 eet of paper ; roast it; take some cullis, or good gravy, put in some oysters, with ! their liquor strained, a little mushroom ’Powder, or ketchup, lemon juice, thicken it with flour; add Cayenne and salt; boil it ' op : when the fowl is roasted, take off tire 1 bacon, and serve the sauce in the dish. 1'owl (Salad of)*— Cut up a couple of com roasted fowls, take off the skin, and i trim them ; lay them in a deep dish, with salt, oil, and vinegar; when they have soaked in this a short time, place the fowl on a dish, round which lay some lettuces, well washed and cut in quarters, hard eggs also quartered, fillets of anchovies, gher- kins, capers, and a ravigntte. Pour the dressing over the whole, and serve. Fowl in the Form (j a large Sausage.— Cut a fowl in two, bone it, and flatten the meat with a roller; put some force- meat upon each half, made of breast of fowl roasted, bread crumbs soaked in cream, scraped bacon, udder, parsley, sbalots, salt, aud fine spices, mixed with the yolks of three eggs ; tie up the pieces in the form of large sausages, wrap them in slices of bacon, and then in pieces of linen cloth; braise them in broth, with a glass of white wane, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, and car- rots. When they are done, untie the cloth, take off the bacon ; squeeze them gentlv between a cloth, to press out the fat, aud serve with what sauce you choose. Fowl (Souffle of).*—Pound the fillets of four roasted fowls, about two ounces of calf’s udder, salt, and pepper; when these are well beaten, put them into a stewpan, with four ladiesful of veloute; make it quite hot (but not to boil), and then pass it through a sieve into a basin ; add to it the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two, whipped as for biscuits. Cement fried bread round the edge of a dish ; pour in the souffle, smooth the surface, and put it into an oven ; as soon as it has risen properly and is firm to the touch, take it out, and serve it instantly. FowL(Stewed).—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling; put it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shalot, and mushrooms; stew it on a slow fire about a quarter of au hour, turning it often. Then put it into another stewpan, with slices of veal and ham, and all the first seasoning. Cover it with slices of bacon; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour longer, then add a little whole pepper, and some salt, a little stock, and some white wine, and finish it on a slow fire; then skint and strain the braise. When done, squeeze in the juice of a lemon; wipe the fowl clean from the fat, and serve. Fowl (Stewed). — Place four clean skewers at the bottom of a stewpan, and place the fowl upon them. Put it in a quart of gravy, a bunch of celery, cut small, and Washed very clean, and two or three blades of mace. Let it stew gently till there remains only just sufficient for sauce; thouFOW 264 FOW add a good piece of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of red wine, the same quan- tity of ketchup, and a sufficient quantity of pepper and salt to season it. Place the fowl on a dish, and serve the sauce over it. Fowl stuffed, with Black Pudding Pre- paration.—Fry two fine chopped onions in butter till they are almost done ; then add chopped parsley, shalots, a little pounded coriander seed, pepper, and salt, half a pound of tripe or marrow, the yolks of four raw eggs, and half a pint of hog’s blood ; thicken it over the fire without boiling; take out the breastbone of a fowl, and stuff it with this preparation ; sew it up, and roast it with bacon and paper tied over it; serve with cullis and consomme for sauce. Fowl (Stiffed or Forced).—Make a forcemeat with half a pound of beef suet, as much crumb of bread grated fine, the meat of a fowl cut very small; beat these in a mortar, and a pound of veal with them, some truffles, morels and mush- rooms cut small, a few sweet herbs and parsley shred fine, some grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon peel grated ; bone your fowls, fill them with the forcemeat, and roast them. Serve with good gravy, with truffles and morels. The fowls may be larded if you choose. Fowl a la Tartare.—Take a fine fowl, turn in the legs as usual, then cut it in two, take the bones off from the back, cut the breast off, break those of the legs, flatten the fowl with the back of your knife, and season it with salt and pepper ; then dip it in clarified butter, and next into bread crumbs, equally on all sides. JVext broil it up to a fine colour, on a slow fire, that it may be done thoroughly. Send it up with a brown Italienne mixed with mustard. Thrust your knife into it to ascertain if it is well done ; it requires an hour, or at least three quarters, to be done properly. Fowl with Truffles.-—Truss a large fowl as for boiling, put truffles into the inside well stewed and prepared; then put it on the spit, with a slice of fat bacon on the breast, and paper tied over that; roast it well, set it on the dish, gar- nish it with truffles in sauce a l’Espagnole, or brown sauce, and serve. Fowl (Wild).—The flavour of wild fowl is preserved better by not stuffing them ; put into each, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter. Wild fowl do not require so much dressing as tame ; they should be done of a fine colour, and nicely frothed. A rich j 4j brown gravy should be served in the i 1 dish, and when the breast is cut into j 1 slices, before it is taken from the bone, j it will be much improved by a squeeze j J of lemon, some salt, and pepper. If you wish to take off the fishy smell | : which these birds frequently have, put an : | onion, salt, and hot -water into the dripping- pan, and for the first ten minutes baste ( them with this; then remove the pan, | and keep contantly basting with butter. Fowl (Wild) Pie.—The fowl should be trussed like a duck for a pie larded with i anchovies, seasoned with pepper, salt,. and sweet herbs ; put a good quantity off butter into the pie, and finish the same as • all others. Fowl ( Wings of) larded.*—Take as ; many wings of fowl as you may require, . lard, and put them into a saucepan, with i a slice of veal, a little streaked bacon, and 1 sweet herbs ; when sufficiently done, lay them in a dish on any vegetable you please (previously steaming them in good broth), and serve them as a side dish. There are various other wavs of sending ; the wrings of fowl to table ; but they are generally cooked as above, or according ; to the taste and fancy ; only two or three - recipes are, therefore, introduced here. FowrLS ( Wings of) au Pain de Beurre.*— Boil the wings in broth, with some onions, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper, when done and quite cold, w-rap each wing in a large - slice of butter, which must be pretty firm; if it should be soft, work a proper quan- tity of flour into it, to bring it to the right consistence; when all the wings are covered, lay one over the other, press the whole together lightly, so that it only forms one piece ; then dip vour hands in flour, that in smoothing this piece the j butter maj’- not adhere to them ; then set it in a cool place for half an hour. In the mean while prepare a quantity of bread crumbs well dried in the oven, and having fastened the buttered wings to a spit, put them before a slow fire, take a handful of the bread crumbs, and when the butter begins to melt, shake them over it, and continue this operation till the butter has taken up all the crumbs, and no longer ! runs, when it may be put nearer the fire to finish the cooking; take care to keep the whole of a clear equal brown. Fowl (IFing* of) a la Provertfale.*— Lard the wings with small pieces of an- chovies, instead of bncon, and cook them in a closely-covered saucepan, with someFRI FRA 265 streakv bacon, artichoke bottoms, aspa- ragus tops, and garlic, a sufficient quan- tity of broth, and seasoned with salt, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper. When quite tender, take out the wings, and lay them in a dish; add a little veal gravy to the liquor, reduce it to the proper consistence, and pour it very hot over the wings. The garlic, ginger, and pepper may be omitted at pleasure. Fowl (IFings of) en Iiedingote*—Take the number of wings you intend to use, and having trimmed, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, taking care that the whole of the wing is covered ; tie them round and put them into a saucepan, with some broth, parsley, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper. When done, take them out and let them drain; then cover them with bread crumbs, and broil them over a clear slow fire ; take off the strings, dish, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. FRANGIPANE.* — Put into five spoonsful of flour five eggs, a pint of milk, an ounce of butter, and a little salt; set it on the fire, stirring constantly until it has boiled ten minutes, taking great care that it does not burn ; then pour it into a basin, and let it cool. Take a few almonds (to every six sweet put one bitter), bruise them, and some macaroons, and when reduced to powder, mix them with a little crisped orange flower (also in powder), and a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to sweeten it; add these to the above preparation, and stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If your fran- gipane be too thick, add another egg or two, and then make whatever use of it you may desire. You may, if you think proper, substi- tute pistachios for the sweet almonds, in which case a little spinach essence must be added to colour it, the macaroons and orange flowers omitted, and three bitter almonds only used. Frangipane (Souffle of) *—Put six des- sert-spoonsful of water into a saucepan, with four yolks and one whole egg, a pint of cream, and an ounce of butter; put them on the fire, and stir constantly till done, when it may be taken off and set to cool ; mix together six dessert-spoonsful of powder sugar, two bitter and three sweet macaroons, some dried biscuits, and crisped orange flowers all crushed to powder, add these to the above prepara- tion, stir it well, and, if necessary, add more yolks of eggs ; whip the whites of five eggs as for biscuits, put them to the rest, and then pour the whole into a silver dish, set it in a gentle oven, and serve it the instant it is done. Frangipane (Tartlets of)*—Line some tartlet moulds with puff' paste, fill them up with the frangipane, to which add a small quantity of chnux paste, dorez, and lay on each a band of the puff' paste twisted in the form of a snail; bake them in a hot oven, and glaze them white, Frangipane (Tourte of).*—Take some puff paste, and having rolled it out to the proper thickness, cut it to the size and shape you may desire ; roll out the re- mainder of the paste to a band sufficiently long to surround it, and about an inch and a half wide ; place this round the under crust, first moistening the edges that they may adhere properly; put frangipane (see that article) into this, ornament it with the paste according to your fancy, dorez the edges, bake it in a hot oven ; when nearly done, sprinkle sugar over, and glaze it; serve it either hot or cold. FRICASSEE (Brown).*—Take two or three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and stew them in gravy made of beef, some whole pepper, two shalots, one or two anchovies, a bit of horseradish, and a little sweet marjoram powdered small. Stew the rabbits about a quarter of an hour, then take them out of the gravy, strain the liquor, fry your rabbits in lard or butter; add a glass of claret; you may fry some forcemeat balls, made with the livers of the rabbits parboiled, and a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, a few bread crumbs, and two buttered eggs; mix these all together, make them up into balls, dip them in the yolk of egg, roll them in flour, then fry them, and garnish your dish with them, with fried parsley, and sliced lemon. Fricassee ( White).*—Cut a couple of rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; then lay them in a cloth to dry ; put them into a stewpan with milk and water, ami let them stew till they are tender, and then take a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir them well together till the butter is molted ; be careful to keep it constantly stirring, or it will be greasy ; put in the rabbits," take a little dried mnce, a little pounded nutmeg, and a few mushrooms ; shake them to- gether for a few minutes, and then put it to the rabbits. You may add white wine if you choose, and season it. iFill them out, drain them on a napkin, sprinkle FRIITERS.—Make them of any of the FRI 266 cut it into tbin slices, and then cut them thin as possible, to the form of a long hatters directed for pancakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan, or make the plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and cored in the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants or sliced lemon, as thin as possible, are very nice. Fritters.—Fritters should be sent to table served upon a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. Fritters a I’Anglo-Franfuise.*—Take a marrow pudding, and when nearly cold, again into pieces two inches long, by three quarters of an inch wide, dip them into hatter, and fry them in the usual manner; when drained, glaze them with fine sugar, and serve them very hot. The batter for the above fritters. See the recipe for Batter. Fritters au. Blanc* — Mix together a handful of rice flour and some milk, set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add a little cream, sugar, lemon peel, and orange flowers; when it has become of a proper consistence, take it from the fire; as soon as it is cold, roll it into balls about the size of a nut, dip them in batter, and fry them. Fritters (Blondin).*—Put some butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add to it a glass of milk, and a pinch of salt, keep it on the fire till it boils : then mix in a sufficient quantity of flour to make it into a consistent paste, which will not stick to the fingers; spread it on a table, roll it out to the thickness you may re- quire, cut it in round, oval, or any other formed pieces you may think proper, and fry them of a nice colour, in the best oil; sprinkle sugar over, and serve them. Fritters (French) of Brandy Fruits.*— Take a dozen apricots (or other fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, and cut them in half; then wrap them in wafers cut round and previously moistened, dip them in the same kind of batter as that used for fritters d 1'Anglo-Fravpiise, and fry them; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. Fritters a la Cole*—Soak in brandy some leaves and the young and tender shoots of the vine, dip them in a batter made of milk, yolks of eggs, and flour, fry them in boiling oil, sprinkle them with sugar. Elder flowers arc made into fritters in the same manner. Fritters a la Dauphine.*—Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it out as square ; on part of this lay small quantities of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly i wet the paste round each piece of preserve, and lay over the plain part of the paste so as to cover the other completely, press it down lightly that the marmalade may not escape in the cooking, and cut out your fritters with a circular paste-cutter of two inches in diameter; flour them a little, and then lay them in rather a hot friture, when the paste will swell them into little balls; as soon as they are of a proper colour take them with fine sugar, and serve them. Fritters ( Mignan).* — Put two good spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, and mix it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, a little salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and half a tea-spoonful of cream; stir it over a slow fire, and, when well done and well thickened, spread the cream upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and, when cold, cut it into bits with a paste- cutter, the same as for pelits-putes; dip each bit into a batter made with two spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, mixed with two eggs; fry the fritters, and serve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. Fritters (Royal).—Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it be- gins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine; then take it off, and let it stand five or six minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin : beat it up well with six eggs, and season it with nutmeg ; then beat it with a whisk, and add flour sufficient to give it the proper consistence of batter. Put in some sugar and fry them quick. Fritters Souffles*—Mix the yolks of four eggs, half a spoonful of olive oil, and a pinch of salt, with half a pound of flour; whip the whites of the eggs to a snow, and add it to the rest. When your paste is of the consistence of a thick batter, take a spoonful of it and roll it in flour; make each ball about the size of a walnut, throw them into a hot friture of oil, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them hot. Fritters Souffles* — Make some flour and beer into a batter that will flow a little; take a little of it out with a spoon, throw it iuto a fryingpan with boiling oil; the moment it rises, take it out, and proceed in the same way till all the batter is used ; then sprinkle them with salt, and serve.FRO 267 FRU Fritters (Spanish').—Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, about the thick- ness of your finger, in whatever shape you please; soak it in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When thoroughly soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. Fritters en Surprise.* — Take eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave on the stalks; cut of!' about a fourth part of the stalk end of each apple, and scoop out the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of a cup with a lid; put them to soak for two hours in a glass of brandy with a i little lemon peel and cinnamon; at the end of that time take them out, drain, and fill i each apple with apricot marmalade, or frail"ipane ; mix up a little flour and white of egg to cement the tops of the apples to the other parts; dip them in batter and fry them. When they are of a proper colour, glaze and serve them. Fritters (Syringed).*—Make a rather , stiff batter with some flour, a glass of water, and half a pound of butter; then put it into a mortar and pound it, adding a small quan- tity of orange flowers, grated lemon peel, i sweet and bitter almonds (also pounded) ; i dilute the whole with as many yolks of eggs ! as will make the batter flow easily. Pour | this preparation into a syringe, the end of which is pierced according to your fancy; i force the preparation through, and fry them 1 in the usual manner. FROMAGES Bavarois.—As all the fra- I mages so nearly resemble each other in the ■ manner of making them, it will only be necessary to give one or two recipes of I them. Take sufficient quantity of such fruit as you intend making your fromage of, such as strawberries, raspberries, or apricots, &c.; make .them into a puree, ' whisk a pint of cream quite thick, and mix ! the fruit with it, add a little pounded ! sugar, and sometimes the juice of a lemon if too flat in taste; mix in quickly a little melted isinglass, whisk it well over ice, when nearly stiff pour it into the mould, and set it in ice ready for use. Instead of a puree of fruit for your fromage, you may nse liqueurs, or decoctions and infusions of such as chocolate, coffee, tea, vanilla, or 1 orange flower, and proceed as in the above recipe. Froth to put on Cream, Custard, nr Trifle. '—Sweeten half a pound of the .pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded nuit; put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them till it will stand as high as you wish, and being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. FRUIT Biscuits.—To the pulp of any scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of sugar sifted, beat it two hours ; then put it into little white paper forms ; dry them in a cool oven, turn them the uext day, and in two or three days box them. Fruit (to prepare) for Brandy *—Take the proposed quantity of fruit, gathered before they are perfectly ripe; dry them carefully, prick and put them into cold water; when all in, set the vessel over a moderate fire, keeping the water, however, constantly nearly boiling, until the fruit will give to the touch ; then throw them, with great care, into cold water again; drain away this water, and add fresh; change the water twice more within a quarter of an hour, after which, drain them for the last time, and put them in bottles; if any of the fruit is the least broken or bruised it must be put aside, as it would spoil the rest. In the mean while, take a proper quan- tity of sugar (as a pound and a half for twenty-five peaches) ; clarify and boil it to la nappe; measure, and put double its quantity of good brandy; mix and pour them into a glazed pan; let them stand awhile, and then pour the mixture on the fruit. Fruit (Candied).—It must first be pre- served, then dipped in warm water, dried with a cloth, and strewed all over with sifted sugar, and dried in a stove or oven, turning as occasion requires. Fruit (Candied). — When the fruit is preserved, dry it in a stove till the syrup is quite out, dip it into syrup boiled to candy height, and dry it again. All dried and candied fruit must be kept in a very dry place. Fruit (Dried) au Caramel.* — Cut a number of osier twigs to about three inches in length, and on the end of each, place a dry preserved fruit; then take a small piece of butter, which must be perfectly free from either salt or water, as otherwise it will adhere to the marble slab, on which it must be rubbed with the palm of the hand all over. The preparations properly performed, take some clarified sugar, the quantity must be in proportion to the fruit, and boil it to caramel; then take an osier twig in each hand, dip the fruit into the sugar, turn them round several times that the sugar may adhere on all sides. When the cara- mel, begins to cool, lay the fruit on the but-FRU 268 FRY tered slab, and proceed in the same way with the remainder of the fruit until as many are done as are required; when all are done and cold, take out the twigs, and wrap each fruit in paper, with a device as usual. As this operation cannot he performed too quickly, it would be advisable to have two or more persons to do them. Fuuit to prepare for Children.—Put ap- ples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseber- ries, &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them ; place the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread or rice may be stewed with the fruit, or the fruit may be eaten with slices of dry bread, or with rice, plain boiled. Fuuits (Conserve of Four).*•—-Take a pound of each of the following fruits :— Currants, strawberries, cherries, and rasp- berries ; press the juice from them, strain it, and set it over a moderate fire till re- duced to half the quantity. Dissolve twelve pounds of sugar, skim it well, and then boil it to caste; take it from the fire, add the juice, and replace it; let it boil once only, then stir it till the sugar bub- bles. Have your cases or moulds ready, and pour the conserve into them. Fhuit in Jelly.—Have in readiness a plain mould, either long or round, about three inches deep; then have ready some mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom of the mould, about a quarter ot an inch thick; let it be cold ; then put in ripe peaches, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you please, preserved fruit, or China oranges cut into quarters, or whatever shape you choose ; put in a little warm jelly, and letit stand till it is cold, to fasten the fruit in its place, otherwise it will rise up; then fill the mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it is quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and garnish it according to your own taste. FnuiT (Remarhs on using Preserved').— Preserved fruits should not be baked long ; those that have been preserved with their full proportion of sugar, require no baking ; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a small dish or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. FnuiT ( Preserved Biscuits oj 1. - lake dried preserved fruits, such ns apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange-flower marmalade ; pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; then mix with it yolks of new laid eggs, and i fine powder sugar, until it comes to a supple paste, not too liquid ; then bake • them on paper in a moderate oven. Fruits (to Green) for preserving or pickling.—Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, while green, for the first, i or radish pods and French beans for the -I latter, and cucumbers for both processes, ,1 and put them, wilh vine leaves underand ! over, in a block-tin preserving-pan, with 11 spring water to cover them, and then put 11 on the tin cover to exclude all air ; set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin 1 to simmer, take them off, pour off the • water, and if not green, put fresh leaves ■ when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice ; they are ■ to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. Fruit to preserve for Tarts or Family Desserts.—Cherries, plums of all sorts, and ! American apples, gather when ripe, and : lay them in small jars that will hold a pound; strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf sugar pounded; cover with two > bladders each, separately tied down; then put the jars up to the neck in a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from damp. Fruit Pudding (Baked).—Rub goose- berries, or any other fruit, through a hair sieve ; and to half a pint of the fine pulp, add a quarter of a pound of Naples bis- cuits, three ounces of oiled fresh butter, half a pint of cream, grated nutmeg, sugar according to taste, and six eggs. Beat all these ingredients together for ten minutes; then add slices of citron, and bake the mixture in a dish with pufl paste round the rim. Fruit (Tart of Ripe).—Take either cherries, currants, apples, &c. and stew them till they are half done in a good syrup, with a little brandy mixed with it. When they are cold, line a dish with crisp tart paste ; put the fruit into it, and round the edge a rim of puff paste, two inches broad, and in the centre, upon the fruit, a small ornament cut out of pufl paste. Put it to bake in a moderately heated oven. FRYING.—Frying, though one of the most common culinary occupations, is one of those that is very seldom properly at- tended to, and consequently nirch 1 The fire for frying should be kept sharp and clear—to keep the melted fat at a sufh-269 GAL GAL ciently high temperature, and without this precaution the tried substance cannot be browned. The meat is prepared the same way as in broiling, by cutting into chops or slices, of not more than halt' an inch or three quarters in thickness. Beef suet, lard, or oil, being melted in a pan and brought to the boiling-point, or nearly so (which may be ascertained by putting into the fat a few sprigs of parsley, or apiece of bread, which, if they become crisp without acquiring a black colour, the fat is hot enough for frying), the meat should be put in. It is not necessary that the meat should be wholly immersed in the boiling fat; if it be immersed in part it will be sufficient. When flesh is the sub- stance to be fried, the pieces, previously to i their being put into the pan, are sometimes brushed over with eggs and crumbs of stale bread, flour, or any other farinaceous sub- stance. Fish are scarcely ever sent to table without being done in this manner when fried. One of the best preparations for this purpose, is oatmeal, flour, or crumbs of bread, made into a liquid paste with the yolks and whites of eggs. Fishis best fried in oil. Fish and most other articles that are bread-crumbed over, should be fried crisp, so as not to retain [too much of the fat, and afterwards dried in a clean cloth so as to make them as free as possible from : grease. G. GALANTINE of Fowl or Game.*—Take half a pound of leg of veal, a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of ham, all ready dressed, and mince them as small as pos- sible ; mix with these an ounce of spiced salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two des- sert-spoonsful of sweet herbs, the same quantity of truffles, all blanched and shred small; when well mixed together, pound it, put this farce into a basin ; then take a pound and a half of truffles, pare, and cut each truffle in four; choose a fine red calFs tongue, take off the skin, cut it lengthwise into six strips: cut in the same manner a pound of raw bam, or fresh pork fat, raw. Pick, singe, and bone, a good-sized fowl, lay it open on a napkin, cut away half the meat of the breast and legs, and put the pieces on those parts where the skin is most exposed, so that the whole may be the 1 same thickness; strew over it spiced salt, ln the proportion of four drachms to a pound; spread over the whole half th6farce prepared above, on that half the truffles, L then the tongue and ham fat, taking cure to vary the colour; season them lightly with the spiced salt; then lay half what re- mains of the farce, and on that the truffles, tongue, and ham, as before ; cover the whole of these with the remainder of the farce, and roll it up either as a ball or an egg ; sew up tbe skin so that none of the stuffing may escape; and wrap it first in slices of bacon, and then in a fine cloth ; tie the ends of the latter very tight; and that the form may be properly preserved, tie three strings round the body, but not tightly. Take a saucepan, line it with bacon, put in the galantine, put round it four onions, four carrots, a bunch of par- sley and scallions, thyme, basil, bay leaf, four cloves, the bones of the fowl, two knuckles of veal, or two calf’s feet, a suffi- cient quantity of stock or fowl consomme to cover the galantine, a glass of Madeira wine, and two dessert-spoonsful of old brandy. Cover the whole of this with a piece of buttered paper, the exact shape and size of the saucepan, and set it on a fierce fire for a short time, after which let it simmer gently foi three hours, then re- move it, and when it has stood for an hour, take out the galantine carefully, and place it breast downwards on a deep dish, and squeeze it a little, press out what moisture it]may contain, put a saucepan-lid on it, on which place eight or ten pounds weight, to make the galantine rather wide than high. Strain the jelly through a silk sieve (put aside tbe gross parts), and let it stand a quarter of an hour, then draw it off, and clarify it. The galantine being quite cold, take away the cloth and bacon, trim it a little if necessary, and glaze it completely. Place it on a dish, and garnish it with the jelly, according to your fancy. All sorts of galantines, whether of chickens, turkeys, partridges, or any other kind of game or poultry, are done in this manner. Galantine of Veal.—Take a breast of veal, bone and flatten it well, sprinkle salt, pepper, Cayenne, and pounded spice over it, lay the inside uppermost, trim it neatly, brush it over with egg beaten, sprinkle it with sweet herbs chopped fine ; then place m alternate rows, forcemeat, tongue, and ham ready dressed, gherkins, beans, ham fat, green and yellow omeletes, calf’s feet, or cowheels ready dressed, and sprinkle all over with isinglass ; roll it up tight, and sew it with packthread all over ; then en- velop it in a napkin, tie it tight at each end, sew it up, boil it three hours and aGAM GAM 270 half in the stock-pot; take it out, and hang it up to drain, then tie up tight at both ends, and press it between dishes or boards with heavy weights on it till next day. GALETS.*—Take three pints of flour, and heap it together ; making a hole in the middle ; put into this hole one pound of fresh butter, one ounce of fine salt, and some water; knead and roll, flouring the table, to prevent the paste from adhering ; roll it out to the thickness of an inch ; brush it over with egg, put it in the oven, and bake it of a good colour. GAME (to keep).—Game may often be made fit for eating when it seems spoiled, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If you think birds will not keep, draw, crop, and pick them, then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt; have in readiness a large sauce- pan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up and down by the legs, so that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in, then hang them up in a cold place; when they are completely drained, well salt and pepper the insides, and thoroughly wash them before roasting. The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved by these means ; those birds that live by suction cannot be done in this manner, as they are never drawn, and it might so happen that the heat would make them worse, as the water could not passthrough them. Pieces of charcoal put about birds and meat, will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. G ame (Chaud-froid of).*—Roast six par- tridges, take oft' the legs, wings, and breasts, remove all the skin, trim, and dry them well, then put them into a saucepan; put into another saucepan the remains and bones of the birds, a glasi of Rhenish wine, one of white Burgundy, a bay leaf, and five or six shalots ; set this over a moderately heated stove, and when half reduced, add a ladleful of veal blond ; as soon as it boils, set it on the corner of the stove for about an hour, skim it carefully, then strain it through anapkin into another saucepan, with the addition of two ladles- ful of clarified espagnolc; when it boils, set it as before on the corner of the stove ; in half an hour’s time, skim, and replace it over the stove, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon, or, if you wish it ex- ceedingly clear, stir it at intervals only, putting in each time a dessert-spoonful of aspic jelly. When reducod to the proper consistence, strain it again into a small saucepan and stir it incessantly with a sauce-ladle, that it may cool smoothly; when no more than luke-warm, pour a quarter of it on the partridges, shaking , the saucepan lightly, and then place on ice . for half an hour; at the end of that time, lay the partridge legs very close, en cour- onne, on these lay the wings, then three • breasts; over these two more breasts, and 1 on the top of the whole a fine truffle, dressed in wine, and a large well-blanched cock’s comb; then beat up the remainder of the sauce with a spoon; if it be too thick, set it on the fire an instant, but if not sufficiently so, place it on ice; when of the proper consistence, it quits the spoon with difficulty; remove the truffle and cock’s comb, cover the chaud-froid care- fully with the sauce, and then replace them. Garnish the dish with a border of roots or aspic jelly. Game ( Essence of) .*—Take four rabbits, four patridges, a knuckle of veal, two pounds of steaks; put them into a stew- pan with a bottle of white wine; boil them until the whole is entirely reduced to a jelly; then add to it broth and consommd (equal quantities of each), six carrots, ten onions, three cloves, a little thyme and basil; let the whole boil very gently-, until the meat is quite done ; then strain it through a napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the broth and consomme are suf- ficiently seasoned to flavour the essence <f game. Game (Farce for).*—Chop some beef marrow, and streaky bacon, and pound them well, then take the livers of your game, and pound them also with the mar- row ; add salt, spices, yolks of eggs, and a little cream ; if it be too thin, boil it for a quarter of an hour keeping it constantly stirring, to prevent it from burning. Game Fritters* — Take any of those parts of cold roasted game, which can be cut into thin slices, dip them into good batter, and fry them in olive oil, or lard. Sprinkle the fritters, when done, with salt and spices, pounded very fine. Game (Fnmet of).* — This is a clear sauce, made in a similar manner to Essence of Came ; when strained off, put it into a saucepan, and let it boil, then set it by the side of the stove, and add to it half a glass of cold water, to make the scum rise, which must be carefully removed ; then reduce it to the consistence of syrup. This is used with dishes of game, breaded, broiled, &c. , Game (Fnmet of) Sauce*—Take three271 GAR GAM or four partridges or young wild rabbits, two carrots, three or four onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a little tliymo, and ball a bottle of white wine; reduce all to a jelly, and then moisten it with essence of game, or if you have none, with con- somme. Set it on a gentle fire till the game is done, then strain it through a napkin, and stir into it six or eight spoonsful of es]iagnole, or any other sauce which is con- venient ; reduce, and then strain it again, and put it into a stewpan, in the bain-marie. Game (Petits Ptiles of) .*—Make some petits pules with godiueau, as directed (see petits pates of gravy) ; when baked, take out the godiveau, and put in its place the ' following preparation : lake some mush- i rooms, parsley, a clove of garlic, scallions, ( two cloves, and a piece of butter, give . them a few turns in a stewpan, and then add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, veal i blond, salt, and pepper; stew them gently, | till the mushrooms are done, when put in I some cold roasted game, cut into dice, take out the parsley, and beat up the whole. | Serve the petits pates with Seville orange juice. J Game (Pottage of').*—Take the large I fillets from six partridges, and the most j fleshy parts of a young wild rabbit, set I them aside, and make the remainder into ■ a consomme with two or three pounds of j shin of beef, and the usual vegetables and seasoning; then having taken out all the j membranes, &c. from the rabbit and par- ! tridges, which were set aside, pound and ! rub them through a sieve. Make a panada with bread crumbs, a little consomme, and I the yolks of two eggs; let it thicken and ■ gratinez, stirring it constantly ; mix the 5 pounded game with an equal quantity of } Panada, and a small piece of fresh butter, ' or ready-dressed calfs udder; add salt, : pepper, grated nutmeg, truffles, or mush- ' rooms; pound the whole with two more yolks of eggs and one white, beaten to a t snow ; make this into balls, and lay them j on a flat plate, that they will easily slide J off into the boiling consomme, which must be well skimmed; when the balls are sufficiently done, pour the whole into the soup tureen and serve it. Game Pudding.*—Trim and truss a suf- ficient quantity of small birds, sucli as i quails, larks, thrushes, &c., and fry them hghtly in hutter, with a handful of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and any other season- lng you please; then make a thick, stiff Paste in which put the game, close paste round it, tie it in a cloth, and put it in a arge saucepan of boiling water; when it has boiled an hour, take it from the cloth, open the crust, and pour in some good cullis, or espagnole, close it again, and then serve it hot. Game (Puree of ).*—Pound the meat of any sort of game you think proper, with a little panada, and moisten it with con- somme. Break the bones, and boil them in some good broth, which add to the pared, and a small piece of butter ; boil all to- gether a few minutes, and then serve it poured over bread fried. Game Soup*—Put into a moderate-sized saucepan three pounds of beef steaks, four old partridges, a knuckle of veal, a phea- sant, carrots, onions, four heads of celery, three cloves, and a bunch of fennel; while it is doing, take three cold roasted par- tridges, and pound them in a mortar, with a piece of crumb of bread, about three times as big as an egg, and previously soaked in broth; moisten the partridges also with broth, and when sufficiently pounded, pass it through a sieve; put to the puree some of the broth, and set it on a gentle fire for some time, taking care that it does not boil. Dip your bread in the usual manner in the soup (made as directed above), and serve. GARBURE d la Bearnoise.*—Blanch four cabbages and a dozen lettuces, put them into a braising-pan, with a piece of streaked bacon, an equal quantity of ham, previously soaked, a sausage without gar- lic, and the legs of a goose, some broth without salt, a bunch of parsley, some roots, and two onions, a clove stuck in each; let these stand over the fire till thoroughly done, then drain the meat and vegetables separately; strain the liquor, skim, and clarify it; take some rye bread, cut the crumb of it into very thin slices • then have ready a deep dish that will bear the fire, and lay the cabbages, lettuce, bacon and bread dipped in the broth, round the inside of the dish, leaving a space or kind of well in the centre, which fill up with a puree of green pease, the ham, and the legs of goose ; cut the sausage into slices, and place them round the edges. 1 ut the dish over a stove that it may gra- tinez. Serve it with the clarified broth in another dish. Gauiiuue ait Hamean de Chantilly * But three pounds of veal cutlets, a knuckle of veal, two partridges ; and two pigeons, Jnto a saucepan; tie these up, that they may not fall to pieces in cooking ; fill the saucepan with good stock, or consomme, and add carrots, turnips, onions, celery leeks, and two cloves. When the meat isGAR GAR 272 sufficiently clone, take it from the sauce- pan, and put it into a deep dish ; lay round it the vegetables, taking care to lay each sort separately : then take forty or fifty carrots, cut them into round pieces, about two inches long ; keep them all of the same size; cut as many turnips, onions, and leeks in a similar manner, boil these also in broth, hut not that in which the meat was cooked ; add sugar sufficient to correct any acidity; the vegetables should he thoroughly done, but not so much so as to break; place them round the meat, and then serve it with the broth of the meat, strained in another tureen: no bread is required with this garbure. Garbure a La Palignac.*—lake about twenty or thirty large chestnuts, and throw them into hot water to blanch them, in the same manner as almonds ; when the skin is well cleared off, lay some slices of veal and bacon, two hay leaves, two cloves, six carrots, as many onions, and a bunch of green celery leaves, into a stewpan ; put the chestnuts on these; season them with salt and pepper; cover them with slices of bacon; moisten them with broth, and let them simmer for an hour; then if they are done, drain, and cut them in halves ; fill vour dish with alternate layers of bread and chestnuts; strain the liquor they were done in over it, and gratinez it, and serve it. Garbure a la Villeroy.*—Take twenty carrots, twenty turnips, a dozen onions, half a dozen heads of celery, the same number of lettuces, a dozen leeks, and a handful or more of chervil; cut the roots into dice, and bruise the lettuces and chervil. Put three quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a pan, and fry first the carrots lightly, then put the turnips, and fry them also lightly, add the leeks and onions ; when these are quite done, put in the lettuces and chervils, and stit the whole together : moisten them with a small quantity of broth, and boil them until sufficiently done, adding a piece of suo-ar about half the size of an egg. Then put a layer of bread and vegetables on a dish (beginning with the bread) ; strew coarse pepper between each layer, and when your dish is sufficiently full, pour in the liquor without skimming, and set it on the fire. Let it stand till the gratia is formed, and then serve it. GARLIC Butter Sauce.*—Pound half a dozen cloves of garlic; rub them through a silk sieve, with a wooden spoon; put this into a mortar with some butter, and beat it until thoroughly incorporated; then put this butter into any sauce you please. Garlic (Essence of).*—Take an earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves of garlic, the same number of cloves, the quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay leaves : when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours ; strain it through a coarse sieve, and then filter it. Keep it in very closely-corked bottles. A very small quantity of this essence is requisite to impart its flavour to a dish. Garlic Gravy.—Slice a pound and a i half of veal, or beef; season it with pepper | and salt; put it into a stewpan, with two i carrots split, and four cloves of garlic sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced ham, and a large spoonful of water; put the i stewpan over a gentle fire, and watch when the meat begins to stick to the pan; when it does, turn it, and let it be very well browned (but take care that it is not in the least burnt); then dredge it with flour, and pour in a quart of broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a lemon ; set it on the fire again, let it simmer gently lor an hour and a half longer, then skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy, by pouring it through a napkin, straining and pressing it very hard. Garlic (Pickled).—Pick the garlic very clean ; put it over a brisk fire, in salt and water, and boil it up quick; drain and dry it: make a pickle of double-distilled vinegar and salt; pour this boiling hot on the garlic; repeat the same the next day. . Garlic Sauce.—Take two cloves of garlic, and pound them with a piece of fresh butter, about the size of a nutmeg ; roll it through a double hair sieve, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter, or beef gravy, or make it with garlic vinegar. ^ GARNITURE* — Lay some cocks combs, kidneys, and livers, into warm water, that all the blood may soak out; when they are clean, have ready some hot (but not boiling) water, into which throw the cocks’ combs; stir them about, and I take them out one by one ; lay them in a cloth with some salt; rub them well to remove the pellicle, then put them again into warm water. 1 he kidneys, " nn cleansed, should be boiled in a Wane tor half an hour; the livers must be blanched in water that simmers only, to preven their becoming hard, though they s iou be firm. AVlien all are cold, trim, and drain them for use.GAT 27 3 GAT Garniture a la Flamande.*—Cut thirty carrots, and as many turnips, into pieces about two inches and a half long, and not quite one in diameter, which boil in a > consomme, with a little sugar; take thirty lettuces, braised with cabbages (see that article); drain, press, and trim them, then lay them round a dish alternately as fol- lows : a lettuce, a carrot, and a turnip, leaving the centre of the dish for such meat as you majr think proper to use; have ready thirty glazed onions, to gar- ; nish your lettuces, &c. When the meat (or whatever you fill the middle of the , dish with), is ready for table, pour over it a nivernuise, reduced and mixed with a little reduced espagnole. Garniture en Ragout.*—Put into a ( saucepan some cocks’ combs and kidneys, * fiit livers, lamb sweet-breads, truffles, quenelles, mushrooms; pour over these • sufficient espagnole travaillee; or, if you i wish your ragout white, put the yolks of 1 three or four eggs into some veloute, and | use that to dress the above articles, instead of the espagnole. GATEAU de Ccmpiegne.*—Take three > pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, an , ounce and four drachms of yeast, an ounce , of salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a t glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve : whole eggs, and five or six spoonsful of ( whipped cream. I With these ingredients proceed as fol- : lows : Sift the flour, of which put a fourth I part on the slab, make a hole in the middle, | put into it a glass of warm water and the , yeast; mix them together as lightly, and ‘ with as much despatch, as possible, adding I m°re warm water if necessary; when well worked up for some minutes, gather it ;together (it ought to leave the slab and the hand Ireely) ; put it into a saucepan; i cover it, and place it in a tolerably warm i situation to rise. Take the rest of the flour, lay it on the slab, make a hole in 'the middle of it, in which put the salt, .sugar, and cream; stir these together well, and then put in the eggs, one at a itime (break them into a basin, in case all should not be good) ; the eggs being put w, add by degrees the butter, stirring them well; then mix the flour, a little at i a time, with the above, until the whole is formed into a smooth paste; more eggs must be added if it be too stiff; work "it UP a little, and then add the leaven; work that in ; and lastly, put in 'the whipped cream. The whole operation hmng thus performed, have ready a cvljn- drical fluted mould (about eight inches in diameter, and nine in height); butter it by means of a sponge, being careful that it^ is done in all parts, otherwise the gateau will adhere to it; place the mould in a moderately warm place, but where there is a free current of air. When the gateau has risen so as to fill the mould, and the surface is a little inflated, it should be put into the oven instantly; if not, it falls and becomes heavy. The oven must be of a moderate heat, and kept closed while the gateau is baking ; take it out in about an hour, and if it be flexible and light coloured, replace it for thirty or forty minutes ; but if, on the contrary, it is red, and firm to the touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put it in the oven till done; remove the mould with care, and the gateau is finished. If the mould does not come away quite so well as it ought, strike it gently with a spatula. When taken out, put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. This gateau is sometimes varied by the addition of six ounces of sugared anise and the same quantity of dry currants. Gateau de Compidgne, with Angelica and Cherries*—Three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, one ounce of salt, six of sugar, six of preserved angelica, the same of preserved cherries, the zestes of three cedrats, half a glass of brandy, three or four glasses of milk, twelve whole ego-s, twelve yolks, and two pounds of butter? Cut the angelica into small pieces; put it into a basin, with sugar on which the cedrats have been rubbed, the brand y and cherries well drained, and each cut in half. The other parts of the operation are exactly the same as Gateau de Compidgne. Gateau a la Fraurraise.—Take three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, one ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, the zestes of four oranges, half a glass of rum three quarters of a pound of dry currants’ twelve eggs, the same number of yolks,’ three glasses of cream, and two pounds of butter. Grate the zestes of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as it colours the su°-ar scrape off the surface lightly; take six ounces of this sugar, crush it completely and put it into a pan, with the rum and the currants (thoroughly washed); having stirred it well, cover the pan, and s°t it. aside. Then sift the flour, make your leaven with a fourth part of it, „s usual, (see Gateau Ramie,we); put the butter ami eggs inlo a pan, and mix them the TGAT 274 GAT tlia same as the conglauffle. To this mixture put half the remaining flour; and when that is amalgamated, the cream (a little at a time) ; then by degrees the rest of the flour, the salt, the leaven, the cur- rants, and rum, stirring well the whole time, that all the ingredients may he thoroughly incorporated ; finish the same as gateau de Compiigne. Gateau of MilLe Feuilles *—lake some puff paste, and divide it into eight pieces, one of which must he double the size of the rest; roll the seven pieces to about the thickness of a half crown; cut them all of an equal size; dorez, and place them on tins. Then take the eighth piece, roll it to double the thickness, and cut it to the size of the others; ornament one side of this layer, as it forms the top, and o-laze it. Bake them, and, when cold, take°the first layer, and spread currant ■jelly all over it; cover it with a second layer, on which spread apricot marma- lade; and proceed thus using a different preserve between each layer of puff paste, until you have employed the whole. Garnish the upper piece, with some of «ach preserve contained in the gateau: trim the edges, taking care to keep it quite round ; fix some small meringues to it, by means of sugar boiled to casse; place it on a napkin, and serve it. Chan- tilly cream of different colours may be substituted for the preserves. Gateau a la Parisienne.*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yeast, an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, ten whole eggs, as many yolks, two pounds of butter, four glasses of cream, a pound of filberts, three quarters of a pound of pistachio nuts, and a quarter of a pound of preserved orange peel. Blanch the filberts, and roast them over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly till lightly coloured; when done, take them off, and let them cool: as soon as they are cold, pound them, moistening them occasionally with cream ; when re- duced to a smooth paste, put them into a pan, stir the cream (a little at a time), into them; then strain them twice through a napkin, squeezing hard to extract all the milk, which put into a basin, and set aside. Then blanch half the pistachios; wash them in cold water; split each m half, and cut the orange-peel into pieces of the same length as the pistachio nuts, and about the eighth of an lnchsquare. Divide the flour and make the leaven in the same manner as directed for Ga- teau de Compitgne, except that milk is substituted for w'ater. Having done it, and set it aside to rise, take a pound and a half of the butter; work it up, put it into a pan, and add to it the remaining half pound, just dissolved; stir them together well, and put in the eggs and yolks, one by one, working them up con- stantly ; then mix in successively half the flour, a glass of the filbert milk, and two handsful of flour; make a hollow in the paste, into which put the salt, sugar, and another glass of the milk of filberts; mix these together, and then add the re- mainder of the flour and milk of filberts, and the leaven; these being thoroughly incorporated, mix the orange peel and pistachios, and then pour the preparation into a mould of the same kind, and but- • tered like that for Gateau de Compiegne.. Whilst it is baking, blanch the remainder • of the pistachios; divide each nut in half; dry them thoroughly in a napkin; and when the gi lean is taken from the mould, stick them on the top and round the sides. Gateau de Pithivlers.*—Pound to a veiy smooth paste half a pound of filberts; add to them six ounces of fine sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two Gunces of bitter almonds, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt; these ingredients being well beaten together, put in four spoonsful of whipped cream. Then take some puff paste, knead and roll it out, (perfectly, and divide it into two parts, one of which must be two thirds larger than the other, which roll out of a sufficient size, to cut a round piece nine inches in diameter; add the cuttings of this to the remaining paste ; roll it outs and cut a circular piece of seven inches diameter. Moisten the edges of the smallest piece lightly, and pour on it the above preparation; spread it over the whole equally to within an inch of the edge ; then cover it lightly with the other circular piece: press the paste together, that the preparation may not escape in baking, flute the edge; dorez the top, and trace on it any desip you may think proper, 'with the point of a knife. 'Place it in a brisk oven, and, when coloured, remove it nearer the opening, that the paste may not be too highlv co- loured. When it has boon baking three quarters of an hour, take it out and glaze it. These gateaux may be varied accord- ing to taste, by introducing diflerpit articles, such as butter, almonds, T currants, muscadel raisins, crisped orangeGEN GEE 275 flowers, &c. &c., in proper quantities, into the above preparation. Gateau de Pitliiviers Anglo-Fra n- fais..*—Take eight ounces of pounded sweet almonds; four of beef marrow shred very fine, two of powder sugar, two of hitter macaroons, two of dry currants, two of the best raisinss, stoned, half an ounce of crisped orange flowers, a grain of salt, the yolks of four eggs, half a glass of Spanish wine, and half a nutmeg grated; put these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir them well. Prepare the puff paste as above directed (Gateau de pitliiviers), adding to this a narrow i raised edge; pour in the preparation, which, being rather liquid, would run out but for this precaution; cover, and bake it in the usual manner. To this may also : he added other ingredients to vary its flavour. Gateau Royal*—Three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, six drachms of ( vanilla, a glass of maraschino, three quar- t ters of a pound of muscadel raisins, two pounds of butter, twelve yolks, and •: twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of whipped cream. Stone the raisins, put ■ them into a basin with the maraschino and (vanilla pounded with thesugar and strained, ' cover the basin very closely, and set it f aside. Make the leaven as before directed (Gateau de Compiegne). "Then put three t parts of the butter into a pan, melt the ;■ fourth part and add to it, beat them to a scream, and, at intervals of two minutes, put in two whole eggs and two yolks* until all are used ; to this add the other ingredients, and finish the g&teau in the same manner as Gateau de Compiegne. | GEESE (to choose). — Be careful in choosing a goose, that the bill and feet are yellow, as it will he young: when old the feet and hill are red. When they are ?tresh the feet are pliable ; if stale, they are dry and stiff. Green geese are in season Irom May to June, till they are three months old; they should be scalded. A stubble goose is good till it is five or six 'months old, and should be picked dry. ) Geese (Legs of) d la Rdmoulade*—T ako me legs of one or more geese, and dress mem a la braise ; then dip them into the fat, !? Wlllch tjmy were cooked ; then bread lem ; sprinkle them over with a little ,mod oil, and broil them of a fine brown : ■orve dry, with a separate sauce a la remou- '‘ae, made in the followingmanner : Mix a 1 ue mustard in a saucepan, with salt and pepper, also capers, anchovies, parsley, leeks, and a clove of garlic, chopped up together very fine, and diluted with oil and vinegar. Geese (to Preserve) *—Take any num- ber of geese, and roast till they are about three parts done, being careful to preserve the fat that drops from them ; let them cool, and when cool cut each goose into four parts, taking off the legs, and keeping the breasts and wings together; place them very close, one upon the other, in an earthen pot, putting between each layer three or four bay leaves and some salt: then melt the goose grease which has been preserved, with a good quantity of ho°’s lard, and pour it into the pot; there must be a sufficient quantity to cover the birds - twenty-four hours afterwards close up the pot with parchment, and when the whole is quite cold, put it in a dry place to keep for use. When you want to use them, take the pieces of goose out of the fat and before using, wash them well in warm water. 0? Truss).- The goose must be hist well picked and stubbed, then cut off the pinions at the first joint, and the feet also. Make a slit in the back of the neck and take out the throat, cut off the neck close to the back and the skin, but leave enough to turn over the back ; make a slit between the vent and the rump, through winch draw out the entrails, then wipe it clean. Draw the legs up, keeping them close to the side, then put a skewer into the wmg, through the middle of the le°- body, and the leg and wing on the other side; put another skewer through the small of the leg, which keep close to the sidesmen; run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut’through fhe end of the vent, through which put the rump, to prevent the stuffing from falling six^oim?rSEf'*~PiUtint0 an eartIlen Pan six ounces of powder sugar six whole eggs (asifforbiscuits), a quarter °f apound flo;li’,1le samo of sweet almonds pound- ed, a little orange-flower water, a small bmte 7 Mfsalt( and ab°ut four ounces of butter. Mix these ingredients together veil; butter a baking plate, and spread the preparation over it.Yo the thickEsof? halfcrown piece; put it into a brisk oven of a proper colour, and then cut your fu ™t0 iUCh f°,rmS !lS^ou maT fancy; put them into a stove to dry, and then serve them. J u When you have proceeded thus far, you T 2276 GEN GHE mny, if you think proper, ornament them, which is done in the following manner: Do them all over with a glace royale of dif- ferent colours according to your taste, and place them in the stove a minute or two to dry the glace ; when cold, garnish them with apple or currant jelly. Genoises Glaces a l' Itulienne* Having baked and cut the genoises, place them on a sheet of white paper. Clarify and then boil to soujfld half a pound ot sugar; as soon as it reaches that degree take the pan from the fire, and set the bottom of it in cold water ; take up the sugar, and haying whipped the whites of three eggs, mix them by degrees with the sugar; coyer the genoises with this glace, then place them in a stove for a quarter of an hour to dry. This glace may be tinged of various colours by adding to 'it the different articles used for colouring sugar, almonds, &c. bee those articles. Genoises (Paste /or).*—Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter; rub the rinds ot two or three lemons upon a part of the su- gar, crush it with the rolling pin, and then roll it to a very fine powder ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put into it a little salt, four yolks and tour whole eggs, the butter and sugar; work them together well, and having made your paste, roll it out, and cut it it into bands, which roll to the size of your little finger ; cut them of equal lengths, and form them into S s or horse-shoes; slit the sides and ends, lay them on buttered tins, dorez, and bake them in an oven, rather hotter than for baking biscuits. , . Genoises Small.*—Take some almond paste, and having worked it up well, add to it a little gum-dragon, and a little starch, both in powder. Sprinkle a sheet of paper with powdev sugar, lay the almond paste over it. and sprinkle that also with sifted sii°,ar instead of flour; then take a small round paste-cutter, and cut as many pieces from the paste as you may require ; then cut an equal number of strips, each long enough to surround the tartlet, and about half an inch wide ; fix these hands to the tartlets with the white of an egg Put a layer of the almond-paste on a table dish, acid a rim to it, leaving the edge either plain or notched, as you please; place on {his lever as many genoises (prepared as above) as it will contain, and the"P“‘ them in a stove or oven to dry. W hen wanted for table, fill them according to your taste, with three or four sorts of preserves. GHERKINS.*—Dutch gherkins are es- teemed the best sort; when boiled, they are used in garnishing salads, and likewise to make ragouts; they are done in the following manner : Boil them a moment in water to take off the strength of the vine- gar ; then put them into a good sauce or: ragout, not allowing them to boil again ; ; serve with any dish you think proper. Gherkins (Pickled).*—Choose the green- est gherkins, and having cut off the tails - and heads, rub them to remove the down ; wash, dry, and lay them in a jar ; pour r over a sufficient quantity' of the best vine- • »ar to cover the gherkins, and let them: stand; after three days, draw off the vinegar, and boil it; when the quantity is a little lessened, throw in the gherkins, and boil them together; then pour the whole r into the jar again. In about five or six days take them out, and boil again, adding : garlic, tarragon, and salt; put them into the jar, which must not be covered until the vinegar is perfectly cold. Gherkins (Pickled).*—Choose your gher- kins as above, very green and straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, sprinkle them with fine salt, then another layer of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also; leave them in the salt for twentyT-four hours, which will draw all the water from them; at the end of that time drain and place them in ajar, with a handful of all- spice, the same of tarragon, a little balm, ten shalots, six cloves of garlic, two or three long peppers, twenty cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two small handsful of salt. Boil two gallons of the best vinegar, pour it over the gherkins, and let them stand till the next day, when boil the vine- oar a second time, and pour it on asjainj the following day boil the vinegar for the third and last time, pour it over the gher- kins, and, when quite cold, cover the jar with a wet parchment. Gherkins preserved wet. — Let jour gherkins he clear and free from all spots, put them into salt and water, let them stand two or three days, then take them: out and drain them well ; put them m another pan of water, scald them, put them in a tuh, and let them stand all night, then drain the water from them ; put them in a pan of water, and to every two quarts oi water, put half a pint of syrup : put them in, and let them boil over a slow fire five minutes; put them in the tub again let them stand till next day; then them again, drain that syrup from and have a clean pan, with the syrupGIB proper thickness ; let it boil, put the gher- kins into it, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour ; then put them into a flat brown pan, and cover them ; let them stand two days, then drain the syrup from them; boil the syrup one minute, and pour it over them; the next day boil them and the syrup together three or four minutes, and repeat the same for five days ; then put them into pots, and cover them up. j GIBLET Pie.—Well scald and wash your giblets, put them to stew like mutton cutlets, but longer, till they are very ten- der. You may either make a puff paste or short paste to bake them in; when you lay them in the dish, add the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, pepper, salt, and the gravy of the giblets ; form a star of leaves on the top of the pie, egg it, and bake it. If you wish it to be particularly good, re- duce some consomme with a little Madeira wine, and pour it into the pie. The giblets i proper to make the pie with, are the head, j neck, pinions, heart, gizzard, feet, and liver. Gibijet Pie.—Very nicely clean a goose ! or duck’s giblets; stew them with a small 1 quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs, till nearly j done ; let them grow cold ; then, if there | is not a sufficient quantity to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or mutton steak, at the j bottom. Put the liquor of the giblets also 1 into the dish, and bake it; when the pie is I baked, pour in a large tea-cupful of cream. ] You may add, if you please, sliced pota- I toes, and bake them with the pie. Giblet Soup.—Take three or four sets of [i goose or duck’s giblets ; and stew them 1 with a pound or two 01 gravy beef, scrag ■ of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal, “ an ox tail, or some shanks of mutton ; with r three onions, a large bundle of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, : and simmer till the gizzards (which must f «ach be in four pieces) are quite tender; F skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of F cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom ! powder, and an ounce of buttermixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes and serve with the giblets. ' It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Anolher Kay.—Make your liquor for the sou]) the same as for mock turtle, add the giblets and the liquor they have been stewed in ; season and finish the same as 277 GIN mock turtle, excepting the balls and calf’s head. Giblet Soup (Clear).—Having properly seasoned your giblets, stew them till tender, draw them down to a glaze, then add a sufficient quantity of good consomme ; simmer them, add salt and a little sugar; skim very clean and serve. Giblets (Stewed).—Do them as directed for giblet pie ; season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one boil, with a cup of cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Giblets (Stewed). — Well scald and clean them, cut off the bill, divide the head, skin the feet, stew them with water (a sufficient quantity for sauce), a sprig of thyme, some whole black pepper, and an. onion ; let them stew till very tender : strain the sauce ; add a little ketchup, and flour, provided the sauce is not too thick. Serve with sippets, toasted and laid round the dish. GIMBLETTES Printanieres* —Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into very thin slips, and rub them with sugar and spinach juice to colour them green, then dry them. Take some choux paste, and lay it on a tin in portions about half the size of an egg ; dorez them, and having dipped the end of your finger in the dorez, make a hole in the middle of each choux ; bake them, and when done, dip them, one by one, first in sugar boiled to casse, and then in the almonds, which will adhere to them by means of the sugar. Arrange the {’imblettes on a dish according to your taste, and serve them. GINGERBREAD.—Rub one pound of butter well into three pounds of flour ; then add one pound of powder sugar, one pound of treacle, and two ounces of ginger pounded and sifted very fine ; one nutmeg grated very fine ; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream, and mix altogether ; you may add carraways and sweetmeats if you choose ; make it into a stiff paste, and bake it in a slow oven. If cake or biscuits are kept in paper or a drawer, they will acquire a disagreeable taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist; or if to be crisp, laying them before the fire will make them so. Gingerbread without Butter.—Mix two pounds of treacle ; of orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce of carraways, and an ounce ofGIN 278 GIN beaten ginger, in as much paste as will make a soft paste; lay it in cakes or tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. Gingerbread Nuts.—Take four pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, an ounce of carraway seeds, half an ounce of ginger pounded and sifted, six ounces of fresh butter, and two ounces of candied orange peel cut into small slices; then take a pound of treacle or honey, and a gill of cream ; make them warm together ; mix it, with all the ingredients, into a paste, and let it lay six hours; then roll it out, make it into nuts, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Ginger Cakes.—Put four pounds offlour upon the dresser; then take a copper sauce- pan, and break into it six eggs, and mix them well with a spoon ; add one pint of cream to them, and beat them well; put the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mixture is warm; put two pounds of butter into the cream and eggs, and one pound of sugar, and keep stirring it over a very slow fire, just to melt all the butter ; put in four ounces of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the butter is melted, pour it all into the middle of the flour ; mix it as well as you possibly can, till it becomes a fine paste ; then roll it out with flour under it on your dresser ; cut them to the size of the top of a tea-cup, a quarter of an inch in thickness; and before you put them into the oven (which should be very hot), place three papers under them. Ginger (Candied).—Put an ounce of ginger, gyated fine, and a pound of sifted sugar, into a preserving pan with as much water as will dissolve it. Stir them well together over a slow fire, till the sugar be- gins to boil; then add another pound, stir- ring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set them in a warm place to dry, and they will be hard andbrittle and lookwhite. Ginger Drops.—Put two ounces of can- died orange, with a little sugar, into a mortar, and beat them to a paste ; then mix an ounce of powder of white ginger with a pound of loaf sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil all together to a candy, and drop it on paper in moderate- sized drops. Ginger (Essence of).—Put three ounces of fresh grated ginger, with one ounce ot thin cut lemon peel, into a quart of hi.indy; let it stand for ten days, shaking it up each day. Gincer Ice Cream.—Take four ounces j of preserved ginger, pound it, and put it a into a basin, with two gills of syrup, the 8 juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream ; them 1 freeze it. Ginger (Mock).—Take the largest cau- t liflowers you can procure, cut off all then flowers from the stalks, peel them, andii throw them into strong spring water and 11 salt for three days ; then drain them in a sieve pretty dry, and put them in a jar; .1 boil white wine vinegar with cloves, mace, . long pepper, and allspice, each half an j ounce, forty blades of garlic, a stick of a horseradish, cut in slices, a quarter of a . ounce of Cayenne pepper, a quarter of a; pound of yellow turmeric, and two ounces of: bay salt ; pour it boiling over the stalks,’, and cover it down close till the next day;; then boil it again, and repeat it twice; more; and when, it is cold, tie it down close.1. Ginger (Preserved).—Take some green: ginger, and with a sharp knife pare if. neatly ; and as it is pared, throw it into a pan of cold water to keep it white ; when i you have a sufficient quantity, boil it till 1 tender, changing the water three times ;; each time put it into cold water to take? out the heat or spirit of the ginger ; when. tender, throw it into cold water ; for seven; pounds of ginger, clarify eight pounds of ; refined sugar; when cold, drain the? ginger, and put it into an earthen pan,, with a sufficient quantity of the sugar,, cold, to cover it, and let it stand for a j couple of days ; then pour the syrup from; the ginger to the remainder of the sugar; ; boil it some time, and when cold, pour it on the ginger again, and set it by for three I days, at least. Then take the syrup from ; the ginger, boil it, and put it hot over the 1 ginger ; proceed in this manner till you find the sugar has entered the; ginger ; boiling the syrup and skimming off a the scum that rises each time, until the syrup becomes rich as well as the ginger, I If the syrup is put on hot at first, or if too rich, the ginger will shrink and not take the sugar. When green ginger cannot be procured, J take large races of Jamaica ginger, boiled • several times in water till tender, pared 1 neatly, and proceed the same as above. Ginger SonJJlee.—See Sovffi.ee. Ginger Sprigs.—Take three eggs, one pound of sugar, a pound of flour, a litOB H ginger, two spoonsful of rose water; mi* the whole into a paste, and cut into wb»t *j form you please. Ginger lime— Put ten gallons of waterinto a boiler, with fifteen pounds of lump- GODARD.—This is the same as Ra- sugar, aud the whites of eight eggs well beaten and strained; mix all well together while cold ; when the liquor boils, slum it well; put in half a pound of common white ginger bruised, let it boil twenty minutes. Have in readiness the rind of seven lemons (the rind must be very thin), and pour the liquor on them; when cool, tun it with two spoonsful of yeast; to a quart of the liquor put two ouncesof isinglass-shavings, while warm; whisk it well three or four- times, and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it up ; in three weeks bottle it; and in three months it wrill be fit to drink. GLACE (Royale)*—Put the white of a new-laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a sufficient quantity of white powder sugar to make a glace or icing, neither too dry nor too liquid; beat it well, and add a little lemon juice to whiten it. By mixing with this glace, carmine, saffron, indigo, spinach juice, &cc., it will be either rose-coloured, yellow,blue, green, &c., according to your taste. GLAZE.* —Take the remains of any liquor in which meat has been cooked, and strain it through a silk sieve until quite clear; then put it into a saucepan and re- duce it over a brisk fire : as soon as it is sufficiently done, that is, when it sticks to the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie; when wanted, add a small piece of fresh butter to it. Glaze.*—Make a consomme with what- ever remnants of fowls or meat that may be in the house; strain it, and then put it on the fire with two or three whites of eggs beaten; stir till it boils, and then set on the side of the stove, and place fire on the saucepan lid; as soon as the eggs are set, pass the glaze through a wet cloth ; reduce this over a large fire, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its stick- ing ; then pour it into a pot for use. When wanted, put a small quantity of it into a saucepan, and make it hot over a slow fire; and in this state, lay it gently over such articles as may require glazing by means of a feather, or brush. Glaze of Roots*—Fill a saucepan three parts full of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions (have the largest quantity of the two latter); four or five cloves may also be added, and veal, if you think proper; moisten the whole with stock or water, boil your vegetables over a gentle fire, and proceed in the usual manner. gox'xt Financiere, only it serves to garnish a sirloin of beef. You then add pigeons, gautiers, and larded sweetbreads; keep your sauce thin. GODIVEAUTake fillet of veal (or breasts of fowl or game), fresh pork (or sausage-meat), be6f marrow or suet, equal quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, truf- fles, and mushrooms; season these articles with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in powder; pound them all together, and put in (one at a time) the yolks of eggs; pour in also a little water, pounding continually, until it is reduced to a sort of paste. Make a small ball of it, which boil in a little water to ascertain whether it be sufficiently salt; sweet herbs may be added when you are about to use it. The godiveau is used, as & farce for tourtes and hot pies. Godiveau (Hot Pie of).*—Make a raised crust, about five inches high, and of any size you may think proper; on the bottom of which lay some godiveau, over this place some mushrooms cooked in butter, two or three artichoke bottoms, cut into pieces, and then lay some more godiveau formed into small sausages. Cover the pie with the paste, dares and bake it. When done, open it, and pour in any sauce which will correspond with the godiveau. Godiveau (Tourte of).*—Roll out some light paste, and cut it to the size of the dish you intend to use; spread over it a small quantity of godiveau, on which place a few mushrooms fried lightly and drained ; then some artichoke bottoms, each cut into four or six pieces; roll some godiveau into balls of any size you think proper, and lay them on the abovementioned articles, so as to form a flattish dome; cover it with the light paste, press the edges together, moisten the top, and lay an ornamental cover of puff-paste over. GOOSE (Boiled).—lake a goose, singe it, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk ; let it lie in this all night; then take it out, dry it well with a cloth ; cut into small pieces a large onion and some sage ; put them into the goose, sew it up at the neck and vent, hang it up by the legs till the next day ; then put it into a pot of cold water, cover it close, and let it boil gently for an hour. Serve with onion sauce. Another method of boi)in°- a goose, is by laying it in salt for a week ; then boil it for an hour. Serve with onion sauce, or cab* bage boiled or stewed in butter. Goose en Daxibe.*—Prepare a goose in the usual way, lard it with lax-dons seasoned230 GOO GOO ■with salt, pepper, and spices; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, the goose on them, with four carrots, four onions, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a knuckle of veal, cut in pieces ; and cover the whole •with slices of bacon ; add a little salt, and three ladiesful of broth ; let it simmer for two hours or more, according to the age of the bird. When done, take it out, and drain it; strain the liquor and reduce it to half; and having cleared oft’ the fat and glazed the goose, pour the sauce over it. Garnish your dish with onions, cabbages, or turnips, glazed, and a tomata sauce. Goose en Daube.*—This dish is seldom prepared but with an old goose; which, when singed and trussed, is larded with bacon seasoned with parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, sage, thyme, basil (all chopped small), pepper, salt, and nutmeg’; do up some roasted chestnuts with some butter and a little sugar; stuff your goose with this, put the bird into a pan with slices of bacon under and over it, moisten it with broth or water, and white wine; put in also a knuckle of veal, cut in pieces ; four carrots, four onions (one stuck with three cloves) a parsnip, a bouquet, salt, pepper, and spices. Let it stand over a small lire three or four hours ; then take out the goose, skim the liquor, strain, and re- duce it, so that when cold it may he quite a jelly, which clarify with the white of an egg, and dish the goose with this jelly over and round it. Goose (Gravy of).* — Lay in a large saucepan some slices of onion, two slices of bacon, three or four beef steaks, a goose and a duck, cut up ; pour over these two quarts of boiling water, and close the saucepan as tight as possible. Let it stand over a gentle lire for four or five hours, then open it, and put those pieces to the bottom which had previously lain at the top ; add a little pepper and salt, close the vessel again, and set it on the hot ashes for an hour; at the end of that time, have ready some stone jars, in which place the pieces of goose ; pour over them a part of the liquor from them, through a sieve, and as the meat imbibes it, in about two hours pour in the remainder. It you wish this gravy to keep for two or three months, cover them with their own dripping, an inch in thickness. Goose (Green) Pie.—Bone two young green geese of a good size; careiully pre- pared and nicely singed. Wash them clean, and senson them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice; put one inside the other; pressing them as closely to- gether as possible, drawing the legs in- wards. Put plenty of butter over them, and bake them, either with or without crust, as you please; if the latter, a cover to the dish must lit close to keep in the steam. Goose (Green) roasted.-—After a green goose has been well trussed and singed, put into the inside a good bit of butter, mixed with pepper and salt; put it to roast, and baste it frequently with butter. When done, shake over it some flour and salt; when ready, take out the skewers, lay it on the dish with good gravy under it, and green sauce in a boat; it will take three quarters of an hour to roast. Goose (Legs and livings of ) a la Bay- onne.*■—Take the legs and wings from as many half-roasted fat geese as you may think' proper; bone them, and when cold, rub them with salt and saltpetre, and lay them regularly in a pan, with bay leaves, thyme, and sage between each layer; cover the pan close, and let them lay thus twenty-four hours; then take them out, dry, and finish cooking them over a slow fire, in their own fat. When sufficiently done, take them out, but keep the fat warm. As soon as the legs and wings are quite cold, place them closelv in ajar, leaving a space at the top of about three inches, which fill up with the warm fat. Do not tie the jar over until the whole is quite cold. Goose (Legs aiid IFings of) a la Bay- onne.*■—Take the legs and wings from five geese ; bone the latter and rub them and the wings with salt, pounded and mixed with half an ounce of saltpetre; having done this, place them in an earthen pan, and bay leaf, thyme, and basil, be- tween each layer; cover them with a cloth, and let them stand thus twenty-tour hours; after which, take them out, drain and simmer them in water; drain them) again. Take all the fat from the bodies of the geese, not excepting the inside tat, and prepare it in the same manner as hog s lard; and when the legs and wings are perfectly tender, and cold, put them as close as possible; pour in the fat when about three parts cold, and let them stand together twenty hours, then cover the pots closely with paper, and set them by in a dry cool place. Goose Legs a la Lyonnaise.*—Like three or four hind quarters of geese, try them lightly in their own fat; cut halt a dozen large onions into rings, take a part of the fat in which you have fried the a281 GOO GOO goose, and fry the onions; drain both them and the legs; dish them, with the onions laid on them, and serve with a good poivrade, or any other sauce you please, but rather give the preference to a Lyonnaise sauce. Goose a, la Providence.*—Prepare a goose in the usual way, and stuff with the following farce: Take twenty small pieces of streaked bacon (having soaked it well), twenty chipolata sausages, twenty large mushrooms, twenty truffles, thirty chestnuts, and the same number of poached quenelles, the size of the sausages (which, as well as the bacon, must be previously cooked) ; put half of this in the goose ; truss, and sew it up as usual, and then put it in a braising-pan, with some slices of veal, two slices of ham, two onions, two cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, sea- soned ; cover the goose with bacon and a buttered paper; pour in a glass of Ma- deira wine, and some good consomme. Let it stew gently over a slow fire for two hours ; then take it off, strain the liquor, and reduce it to half, having removed all the fat; strain it a second time. Put the remainder of the truffles, bacon, &c., with the addition of some cocks’ combs and kidneys, into a little of the liquor, and heat them; then, having drained and dished your goose, lay the truffles, &c. round, and pour the sauce over it. Goose (Legs of') en Puree*—Take half a dozen very plump goose legs, and having boned them, season them with salt and coarse pepper, and supply the places of the bones with bacon cut small; then close the meat over, and tie them, taking care to shape them well. Put them into a stewpan, lined with sliced bacon; cover them with the same ; put into the pan also three carrots, four onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, a little thyme, and a ladleful of broth; let the whole simmer for two hours, then take it out, drain and take off the thread; dish them, and serve with a •purie of lentils, green peas, onions, &c. Goose (Legs oj) a la Rtmoulade.* — Take the legs of a goose, either roasted or a la daube; soak them in their own dripping; bread, and baste them lightly With oil ; broil them to a nice colour, and serve them dry, with the following sauce ln a boat: capers, anchovies, parsley. Scallions, and garlic, all chopped very small, mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. Goose (Legs of) an Verd-prt.*—Put as Jnany legs of geese as will fill a dish into a saucepan, with a little lard and some small onions; cover the saucepan quite close, and set it on the fire. When nearly done, take out the legs, and broil them a few minutes, to colour and dry them a little : in the mean while, fry a handful of parsley (keep it as green as possible), lay it over a dish, and serve the legs on it. Goose, to Marinate.—Cut a goose up the back, bone it; make a stuffing with a few sage leaves, an onion or two, two apples, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, lemon peel, nutmeg, yolk of egg ; stuff' it, sew it up the back; half roast it, or fry it; stew it with good gravy (covered closely), till it is tender; put in a little red wine; strain and skim the sauce ; add cayenne, ketchup, a little flour, salt (if necessary), a little lemon j uice; boil this up for a minute or two, then serve it over the goose. Goose a la Mode.—Talee a large stubble goose; when it is picked, bone and slit it down the back ; take a fowl, and do it in the same manner; take also a neat’s tongue, boil and blanch it; season the fowl with pepper and salt, and beaten mace, and roll it round the tongue, but first put some beef marrow over the tongue ; then put the fowl into the goose, and sew it up ; before the fowl is put into the goose, roll some thin slices of bam or bacon round it; put the goose into a small pot, with two quarts of beef gravy, and the bones of the goose and fowl; when it begins to boil, let it stew very gently for an hour ; then take up the goose, skim all the fat from the gravy ; strain it, and put in a glass of red wine, two spoonsful of ketchup, a veal sweetbread, parboiled and cut into slices, truffles, morels, and mush- rooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some yolks of eggs, boiled hard, with a little pepper and salt; put in the goose, cover it close ; stew it half an hour longer, then take it up, put it in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Take care to skim off all the fat. Goose Pie (Common).—Make a raised crust, quarter the goose, well season it, lay it into the crust ; half a pound of but- ter at the top, cut into pieces; lay on the lid ; hake it gently. Goose Pie (Rich).—Bone a goose and a fowl, season them very well; put force- meat into the fowl, and then put the fowl into the goose; put. these into a raised crust, fill the corners with a little force- meat ; cut half a pound of butter into pieces, lay them on the top ; put on the cover; bake it well. Serve cold.GOO 282 GOO Goose an Ragout.—Break the breast- bone of llie goose, and make it quite flat; •when it is skinned, dip it into boiling water ; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace beat to powder; lard and flour it all over; take nearly a pound of beef suet, put it into a stewpan, and when melted and boiling hot, put in the goose ; when it is brown all over, add to it a quart of beef gravy, boiling hot, a buncli of sweet berbs, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole pepper, a few small onions, and a bay leaf; cover it closely, and let it stew gently; if it is a small goose, an bour will be sufficient; if a large one, it will take half an bour more. Make a ragoiit for it as follows : cut some turnips, onions, and carrots, as for a har- rico of mutton, all boiled enough, half a pint of rich beef gravy; put them all into a saucepan, with some pepper, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; let them stew gently a quarter of an hour ; take the goose out of the stewpan when done ; drain it well from the liquor it was stewed in, put it into a dish, and serve the ra- gout over it. Goose (Roasted). — A stubble goose should be stuffed with sage and onions, chopped small, and mixed with pepper and ^salt; boil the sage and onion in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few bread crumbs with them when chopped; either will render them less Strong. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls ; it will be spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve it with good gravy and apple sauce, in boats. It will take about an hour and a half to roast. Goose (Smoked).—Take a large stubble goose; take off all the fat; dry it tho- roughly inside and out, with a cloth; wash it all over with vinegar, and then rub it over with some common salt, saltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar ; rub the salt well in, and let it lie a fort- night ; then drain it well, sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in the chimney to dry. It should hang for a month. Sauce, onions, greens, &o. GOOSEBERRY Calm. — Break the gooseberries, press out the juice, and strain it through a muslin; to one pint of juice a pound of sugar; boil up the juice; strew in the sugar: stir it well; simmer it well till the sugar is melted; pour it into glasses : dry it in a stove till it will turn out, then dry the cakes on plates. Gooseberries (Green) Compute of.— Give them a little cut on one side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them in hot water to scald, till they rise to the top; then put cold water to them, adding a little salt, to bring them to their natural green ; simmer them in clarified sugar, and let them remain in some time to im- bibe the sweet; take them out, and put them in the compotier; reduce the syrup to a good consistence, and pour it over the fruit. This is for green gooseberries; but if you make use of preserved ones, warm them in their own syrup and a little water, and serve it either hot or cold. These will not keep long, particularly if they have been warmed again : if exposed to the air any time, they will lose their colour. Gooseberries (Ripe Compote of).—Pre- pare some sugar to the eighth degree (petite plume); put the gooseberries into it to boil a moment, and let them cool before you skim them, if for present use; if for keeping', refine the sugar still more, by boiling. Gooseberry Cream.—Boil one quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much water as -will cover them, stir in about half an ounce of good butter ; when they are soft, pulp them through a sieve; sweeten the pulp while it is hot, with sugar, then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs ; serve in a dish, cups, or glasses, or boil and pulp the gooseberries through a sieve, and then proceed as for other creams. _ * Gooseberry Fool. — Put gooseberries into a stone jar, with some fine Lisbon sugar; put the jar either in a stove, or in a saucepan of water, over the fire ; if in a stove, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done to pulp, press it through a colander ; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cupful of raw cream, boiled to- gether, or you may use an egg instead ot the cream; leave it to get cold, then sweeten well with fine Lisbon sugar, an mix the pulp bv degrees with it. Gooseberry Hops.—'lake the h'rPl* green walnut kind, and cut the bu <n' into four quarters, leaving the stalk ■ " whole ; carefully pick out the seeds, ana with a strong needle and thread, fasten > or six of them together, by running thread through the bottoms of them, tinGOO GOO 283 they are the size of a hop. Put vine leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving pan; cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close that the steam may be prevented from escaping; set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, then take it off, and let it get cold, and so continue, till, on opening, while cold, the gooseberries are of a nice green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water; boil and skim it well: when half cold, put in the fruit; the next day give it one boil; do this thrice. If the hops are to he dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week; but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of gin ger in boiling; when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup is found too sour, a little sugar may he added, and boiled in it, before the hops intended for drying are boiled for the last time. Gooseberry Jam.—Take what quan- tity you please of red, rough, ripe goose- berries; take half their quantity of lump sugar; break them well, and boil them together for half an hour, or more if neces- sary. Put it into pots, and cover with paper. Gooseberries (to keep). — When the weather is dry, pick the gooseberries that are full grown, hut not ripe ; pick off the tops and tails, and put them into open- mouthed bottles ; gently cork them with quite new velvet corks; put them in the oven after the bread is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; then take them out of the oven, cut off the tops, and rosin them closely down; set them in a dry place, and if they are well secured from the air, they will keep the year round. If they are gathered in the damp, or the gooseberry skins are the least cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The hairy sort only are used for keeping, and they should be done before the seeds become large. There are a variety of ways of keeping gooseberries, but this, we think, is one of the best and most easy methods of preserving them ; or you may, after they are bottled, coddle them in water the same as damsons. Gooseberry Marmalade.—Boil them a Moment, or only scald them in boiling Water; sift them through a sieve; reduce them over the fire to half, then mix them with sugar prepared to the ninth degree (a la grande plume), half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Gooseberry' Paste.—Upon two pounds of fruit put about a glass of water; boil them a little while, and sift them through a sieve with expression; put it upon the fire again to reduce the juice to a soft paste consistence, stirring continually; when it is come to a pretty thick substance, add a pound of sugar prepared to the ninth de- gree (grande plume), stirring continually Yvith a wooden spoon, till it becomes of a pretty substantial thickness. This paste ought to be applied directly to what pur- pose you propose. This is mostly done in moulds of different shapes and size3, made like hoops, without tops or bottoms; put them upon a baking plate to dry in a stove of a moderate heat. Be careful to keep them in a dry place. Gooseberries (Clear Paste af).—Bruise the gooseberries, then boil them a mo- ment, and sift them, first in a sieve and then in a coarse stamine ; to half a pint of this juice mix one pound of sugar boiled to the twelfth degree (an cassd) ; mix it by degrees with the sugar, boil it a mo- ment, take it off the fire, skim it, and then give it two or three more boilings; the way to know when it is perfectly prepared to put into cups or glasses, is by taking some with a silver spoon, and if it falls out in turning over, and extends a little, like pretty firm jelly, it is done. Gooseberry Pie.—Line your dish with a nice puff paste ; lay in your goose- berries ; sweeten it ivell ; put on the cover, and finish the same as all other pies. Gooseberries ('Preserved). — Put one quart of red currant juice to five pounds of loaf sugar ; set it on the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, put in eight pounds of red, rough, ripe gooseberries; let them boil half an hour, then put them into an earthen pan, and leave them to stand for two days ; then boil them again, till they look clear ; put them into pots, and let them stand a iveelc to dry a little at the top ; then cover them rvith brandy papers. Gooseberry Pudding (linked).—Scald a pint of green gooseberries, then rub them through a sieve ; put to them half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, three Naples’ biscuits, four eggs well beaten; mix the Yvhole well together, and let it bake half an hour. Gooseberry Pudding (Boiled).—ThisGOO GRA 284 pudding is made in the same manner as apple pudding. Gooseberry Sauce*—Take twohaudsful of half ripe gooseberries, open them, and take out the seeds ; blanch them in a little salt and water, and drain them. Put two spoonsful of veloute, and the same of butter sauce into a saucepan, mix them together well, and heat them ; throw in the gooseberries, stir them well; season the sauce according to taste, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. This sauce is eaten with boiled mackarel: fennel may be added or not, at pleasure. Gooseberry Syrup.—Bruise them, with one fourth part of cherries ; sift in a cloth, and mix the juice with sugar prepared to the ninth degree [u la grande plume'), one pound to half a pint of juice ; simmer to- gether till the sugar is au perl6. Gooseberry [Green) Tart.—You may use them either whole, or make a marma- lade of them, with a good syrup ; the last way is considered the best method, as by this means you can judge easily how sweet they are, and ought to he; if made of marmalade, the seeds should be taken out. Gooseberries in an Open Tart, with or without Cream..—Pick and scald some young gooseberries, then, with short paste, make a tart of them the same as you would any other, and serve it cold ; or it may be done thus : when the tart is cold, take off the top crust, and cut it in three corner shapes; beat up nearly a pint of thick cream, and when beaten up, mix it in a little powder sugar ; then spread it nicely over the gooseberries, and garnish it round with crust. Gooseberry Trifle.—Scald a sufficient quantity of gooseberries, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom ol a dish, and sweeten it with sugar according to taste. Mix half a pint of milk, half "a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg ; give it a scald over the lire, stirring all the time; do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and leave it to get cold; lay it over the gooseberries with a spoon, and then put on it a whip, which should be made the day before, as for auy Other trifle. Gooseberry Vinegar. — Bruise some gooseberries that are quite ripe, and to three quarts ol water put one quart ot gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring them fre- quently; then strain them through a hair bag, and to every gallon of liquor add one pound of coarse sugar ; stir it well to- gether ; put it into a barrel and a toast and yeast; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, and let it stand nine or ten months. 'The greater quantity of sugar and fruit, the stronger the vinegar. GRAPES (Compute of).*—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, till it is reduced to a strong syrup ; skim, and then put into it a pound, of grapes, picked from the stalks, and the seeds taken out; give them a boil two or three times, and then place them in a dessert dish : if there is any scum upon them, carefully wipe it off' with white paper. Grapes Dried.*—Take some fine mus- cadine grapes; place them on hurdles, and put them into the oven, turning them, carefully, frequently; when the grapes are quite dry, put them into a deal box, hermetically closed, lightly covering them with brown sugar and bay leaves. Grapes, Dried in Bunches.— lake some preserved grapes, wash them with warm water, put them on sieves, and into a hot stove, keep turning them every day, changing the sieve; when they are thoroughly dried, put them into boxes. Grape Ice. — Take ripe grapes, pick them from their stalks, pass them through a sieve ; mix some sugar with the juice of four lemons squeezed upon it; pass the whole together a second time through a sieve, then freeze it. Grape Jelly*—Take out the stones, , then mash the grapes with your hands (they must be ripe), then squeeze them through a cloth to extract all the juice from them, and boil and finish the same as cur- rant jelly. Use half a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Grapes [Pickled).—The grapes must be at their full growth, but not ripe, cut them in small bunches ; put them in a stone jar, with vine leaves between each layer of grapes, till the jar is full; then take as much spring water as will cover the grapes and the leaves ; as it heats put in as much salt as will make a brine suf- ficiently strong to bear an egg ; you must use half bay salt and halt common salt; when it boils, skim it; strain it through a flannel hag, and let it stand to settle , by the time it is cold it will be quite settled ; strain it a second time through a flannel bag ; then pour it into the jar, upon the grapes, which must be well covered , the jar with vine leaves ; then tie it over with a double cloth, and set a plate upon it; let it stand for two days, then take o .GRA GRA 285 the cloth, pour away the brine, and take out the leaves and the grapes, and lay them between two cloths to dry ; then take two quarts of vinegar, one quart of spring water, and one pound of coarse-sugar, boil it for a short time, and skim it very clean as it boils : let it stand till it is quite cold ; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay some fresh vine leaves at the bottom, be- tween every bunch of grapes, and on the top ; then pour and strain the pickle on the grapes ; fill the jar; let the pickle be above the grapes ; tie up a thin piece of board in a flannel, lay it on the grapes to keep them under the pickle; tie them down with a bladder, and over that a leather. Always keep the grapes under the pickle. Grapes (Preserved) in Clusters.—Take the large Gascoigue grapes before they are too ripe, and prick every one : to every pound of grapes put a pound and a quarter of sugar ; make a syrup of the verjuice, strained; when the sugar is quite clear, put the grapes (after they are strained into syrup) into a deep jar, cover them close, and set them in a pot of scalding water over the fire to boil; as soon as the grapes are tender, take them up, and boil the syrup a little more ; when they are half cold, put them into broad glasses or straight jars ; lay one cluster over the other, cover them with brandy paper, and tie them up. Grapes (Bell) to preserve in Jelly.—Take the long, large, bell grapes, pick off the stalks, stone them, and put them into boil- ing water; scald them thoroughly; take them from the fire, and cover them close to prevent the steam from escaping; then set them over a very gentle fire for two or three hours (but do not let them boil) ; take them out, and put them into clarified sugar, more than will cover them, and give them a good boil; skim them ; boil a little more sugar to a strong souffle, take as much plum jelly ns sugar, and give it a boil; then put the grapes to it; let them all boil together, skim them well, and put them into pots or glasses. Grapes (Green) to preserve.—Take the largest and best grapes before they are ripe, stone and scald them ; let them lay two days in the water they were scalded in, then drain them, and put them into a thin syrup; heat them over a small fire ; the next day turn the grapes into a pan, and heat them the day after; then drain them, put them into clarified sugar, give them a good boil, skim them, and set them by; the next day boil more sugar to souffle, put it to the grapes, give them all a good boil, skim them, and set them in a warm stove all night; the dayj after, drain the grapes, and lay them out to dry, first dust- ing them very well. Grapes (llatajia of).*—Take some fine muscadine grapes, pick them from the stalks ; bruise and press them, so as to ex- tract all their juice; then dissolve some sugar in the grape juice, adding to it brandy and cinnamon ; let the whole in- fuse for a fortnight; then strain it through a filtering-bag, and bottle it off. The pro- per proportions are, one pint of brandy and ten ounces of sugar to one pint of grape juice. Grape Tart.—Make choice of the youngest grapes before the stone is formed ; pick and scald them the same as currants or gooseberries, and finish the same as for all other tarts, only adding more sugar on ■account of their tartness. Grape Wine.—To one gallon of grapes put one gallon of water ; bruise the grapes ; let them stand a week without stirring; then draw it off, and fine ; put to a gallon of the wine three pounds of sugar; and then put it in a vessel, but it must not be stopped till it has done hissing. Grapes (Conserve of Muscadine).—Grain a pound of muscadine grapes, boil them a moment, and sift them through a sieve ; reduce the juice over the fire to a quarter part of what was sifted ; put to it one pound of sugar prepared to the twelfth degree (an casse) and let it boil a little; then work it well together till it begins to grow white, warm the whole a moment, then pour it into paper cases made for the purpose ; when it is cool, cut it into cakes of what size you please. Grapes (Paste of 3Tuscndine).—'This paste is made the' same as sour grapes, only that the grapes must not be bruised. Grapes (Clear Paste of Muscadine).— Boil about a pound of muscadine grapes with a glass of water ; boil also two com- mon baking apples to a marmalade; sift them together first in a sieve, then in a linen cloth ; refine a pound of sugar to the twelfth degree (an casse), and pour the liquid gently into it, constantly stirring it over a slow fire ; it is come to perfection when it leaves the spoon, being turned over like a jelly, and must then be dried in a stove the same as all others ; these trans- parent pastes are cut out for use to what size and shape you please; and so on of other kinds of fruit.CRA GllA 236 Grapes (Compote of) Sour or Vetjuice*— Take the seeds from four pounds of sour grapes, throw them into cold water. Put some water on the fire, and as soon as it boils put in the gTapes; when they rise, take them from the fire, and cover them •with a cloth till cold, then let them sim- mer over a slow fire, taking care that they do not boil; when they are green, drain them from the water. In the meantime clarify and boil two pounds of sugar to lissdthen put in the grapes, and having boiled them together a little while, take it off and skim it; when cold, drain away the sugar, and put the fruit into a compotier; boil the sugar once or twice more, skim and pour it over the verjuice. Grapes (Conserve of Sour).—It is pre- served in the same manner as muscadine grapes, only it requires that a little more sugar is added to the same proportion of juices. Grapes (Sour) Jelly.*—The jelly of sour grapes requires a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; it is made the same as ripe grape jelly; but a little sweet grape juice must he added, besides the sugar, to take off the great acidity. Grape Marmalade of (Sou r or Verjuice).* ■—Take the seeds from six pounds of un- ripe grapes, put them into a saucepan of water, over the fire ; as soon as they rise and swell take them from the fire, put in a little lemon juice, cover, and let them stand on hot ashes till quite green ; put them into a pan and let them cool; then rub them through a sieve, and put them again on the fire to dry ; that done, put the fruit into a pan, add to it five pounds of sugar, clarified and boiled to casse ; stir it in well, and then set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till it is of the proper consistence; then put it into pots. Observe, in making this and barberry marmalade, that it should he put into an earthen pan when left to cool. Grapes (Sour or Verjuice) Paste. —Take the proposed quantity of grapes (take out the seeds), and swell them over the fire. Stirring them constantly, add a lew apples, pared and cut in pieces, till thoroughly dis- solved, then pass it through a fine sieve into a preserving-pan, set it on the fire , when dry, weigh it; take an equal weight of sugar; boil it to fort souffle; put the mar- malade to it, stir it incessantly till it quits the bottom of the pan easily, when it mav be put in moulds or paper cases, and dnod in the stove or oven, sprinkling it with fine sugar. Grapes (Paste of Sour).—Grain the grapes, and thoroughly bruise them ; then boil them a moment in a little water, the kettle being covered ; sift them, and put the juice upon the fire again, to bring it to a strong marmalade; weigh as much sugar as the weight of the fruit, and refine it to the ninth degree (a la grande flume) mix the sugar and marmalade well together over a very slow fire; give the paste what form you please, and dry it immediately. This paste is often made by mixing about half the quantity of apples with the grapes, being peeled, cut into pieces, and reduced to marmalade ; sift it as usual, and dry it to a paste consistence; then add as much weight of sugar (a la grande plume) as the paste, and finish the same as the other. Grapes (Clear Paste of Sour).—Mix a spoonful of apple marmalade with a glass of water, and a glass of verjuice grape juice, which is almost ripe; boil a pound of sugar to the twelfth degree (au casse) ; add the mixture to it slowly, stirring without boiling it, and put it into moulds to cool to a jelly or jam. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice preserved.*— Take out all the seeds, and weigh the same number of pounds of sugar as you have pounds of grapes ; put part of the grapes into a saucepan, and put part of the sugar powdered over them, continuing to put the sugar and grapes in layers till you have used the whole quantity; then put the grapes over a slow fire, letting them boil gently till they become green ; then put them into pots. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice preserved Pi- quid.*—Take the seeds from two pounds of the sour grapes, make some water boil in a preserving-pan, and then put in the grapes; give them one boil, keeping the fire moderate; cover, and let it stand five or six hours; then drain them. Boil two pounds of sugar to la petite plume, put in the grapes, let them boil up twice (covered), skim, and put them into pots. . , Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice preserved. Dry*—Prepare two pounds of grapes as directed for the liquid preserved. Boil your sugar to perle ; put in the fruit, and boil them up several times. The next day drain off the sugar, boil it to grand perle, put the fruit, in boil them together (the nan covered), skim, and set it \ t le day following; drain the grapes, lay them on slates, sprinkle them with sugar, an set them to dry in a stove or oven.287 GRA GRA Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Syrup.*— Take die seeds from three pounds of sour grapes, pound the latter to obtain the juice, which strain through a jelly-bag, as many times as you find necessary, to have it very clear. Clarify four pounds of sugar, and boil it to fort souffle, add to this a pint of the clear juice, and give them one boil together. When quite cold it may he bottled. Grapes (Tart of Sour).— Stone the grapes and scald them in boiling water; then thoroughly drain them, and simmer them a little in a rich syrup ; when this is cold, put it into the paste without covering; glaze the border of the tart with sugar. Grapes (Preserved Tart of Sour)— i Use the same sort of moulds as you do for petits pates, with the second best puff i paste; fill them with the best preserved i verjuice grapes, cover them with paste, and solder them, by wetting the borders all round with water, and then pressing I them together; either glaze them with ' sugar, or serve in their natural colour. Grapes (Sour), or Verjuice, Vinegar of. —Crush the quantity of grapes you may require, before they are ripe, and leave them to ferment in an open vessel for I thirty days; then obtain the juice by means of a press; let the liquor stand for a 1 whole day to clarify. Filter it through blotting paper. It is preserved by having a layer of oil on the top. GRAVY.*—Take three pounds of beef- I Steaks, two rabbits (excepting the heads i and breasts), a knuckle of veal, five car- rots, six onions, two cloves, two bay : leaves, a bun^h of parsley and scallions ; put all these into a stewpan, with two j ladiesful of broth, and set them over a good fire to reduce ; then cover the stove, and let the stewpan stand over it, until the ! meat begins to give out the gravy, and ad- | heres slightly; the jelly at the bottom of the stewpan ought to be of a fine brown 1 colour, and when that is the case, take it from the stove, and let it stand for ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with 1 good broth, or water (if the latter, not so | large a quantity) ; let this simmer for three hours; skim and season it well. The gravy must he strained before it is" used. Gravy may also be made of any pieces of ready dressed meat, in the following manner : Cut some onions into slices, lay , em the bottom of the stewpan, and o meat on them, with the same ingre- dients as above, and two or throe glasses of water ; then proceed in the same manner as the other, until die bottom of the stew- pan is brown, when add water according to the quantity of meat; put salt if neces- sary, and simmer the whole for two hours; then strain it through a sieve. Gravy (Clear).—Slice some beef thinly ; broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it; put that, with the raw, into a very nicely tinned stewpan, with a couple of onions, one or two cloves, whole black pepper, allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times ; then cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. Gravy d’Etoujfade.*■—Take a leg of beef, and lard it with fat ham, a few cloves of garlic, and the same number of cloves ; put half a dozen large onions into a stewpan, with the beef, six or eight all- spice, a little nutmeg, half a bottle of Ma- deira wine, and some consomme ; boil it over a large fire until reduced to a jelly; then place your stewpan over a stove, and cover it with hot ashes; leave it for some time, and when it is of a dark colour, without being eitherhitter or burnt, moisten, it with broth; add some veal or fowl trimmings ; and when the whole is suffi- ciently done, strain it through a cloth, set it on the edge of the stove, take off the fat, add two or three ladiesful of es- pagnole to it, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Gravy for a Fowl, when there is no Meat to make it of.—Nicely wash the feet of a fowl, and cut them, and the neck, into small pieces; simmer them with a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley, and thyme ; some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, simmer them till they are re- duced to half. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Gravy without Meat.—Take a basin, and put into it a glass of table beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut pickle, or mushroom ketchup ; cut an onion in slices; flour, and fry it in a piece of butter until it is brown; then turn all tile above into a small pan with the onion, and simmer it, covered, for twenty- minutes. Strain it off for use, and when it is cold, take off the fat.GRE 288 GRE Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison.— Take a stale woodcock or snipe, and cut it to pieces (first cut out the bag from the entrails), and simmer it with as much un- seasoned meat gravy as you want. Strain it, and serve in the dish with your meat. Gravy (Petits Pates of).*—Roll some puff paste to a proper thickness, and cut it into round pieces with a circular paste cutter; lay half their number in small moulds or tins, and put on each a ball of godiveau, proportioned to the size ol the petits putes; coverthem with the remaining pieces of the dorez, and bake them. When done, open them, cut the godiveau into pieces, and pour into each some good gravy, in which are mushrooms cut in dice ; this, however, must not be done until the petits pates are to be sent to table. Gravy of Roots.*—Roast some onions and parsnips on hot ashes, clean, and then slice them into a stewpan ; and when they give out yellowish brown juice, moisten them with a glass of clear vegetable broth, and boil them with a little salt, an onion, and a clove, for a quarter of an hour; then rub it through a cloth or a sieve, and set it by for use. Gravy Soup.—'Take a leg of beef, and well wash and soak it; break the bone, and put it into a stewpan with a gallon of water, a large bunch ol sweet herbs, two large onions sliced, and fried to a nice biown, taking great care that they are not burnt, two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty allspice, and forty of black pepper. Stew till the soup is as rich as you wish it to be ; then take out the meat ; when it is cold take off the fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, and the nicest part ot a head of celery boiled, and cut to pieces ; Cayenne, and a little salt; carrot may be added, with turnips, cut into small pieces, and boiled with spinach and endive; or, the herbs without the vermicelli, or vermicelli onlv ; add also a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom ketchup. GREENGAGES in Brando. — Take some preserved greengages, and drain all the syrup from them; put them into a jar, and to every quart of brandy put five ounces of sugar ; when the sugar is melted, pour it over the gages; then cover them very close with bladder and leather, and keep the jar filled with brandy. Greengages to Candy.—'When finished in the syrup (see Greengagse to preserve), put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take oft the syrup that hangs about it; then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar; sift this all over every part of the fruit, till it is perfectly white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold, till dry. Watch it carefully. Greengages (Compute of). — Take greengages, prick them with a pin, and set them on the fire in a pan of cold water, till they are a little softened ; then take them off, and let them cool in the same water; when that is done, take the highest degree of clarified sugar, put your greengages into it, and set them again on a very slow fire, to make them throw oft’ their water and turn green ; during this second operation, you must cover your pan with a tin plate that the steam may not escape; after which, take them out, and dress them in your dishes. Greengages (Dried).—Take preserved greengages, put them over the fire to warm, drain all the syrup from them, put them on sieves, and into the stove; change them every day, and turn them, or they will stick,”let them remain in the stove for three days, then put them into papered boxes, with a sheet of paper between each layer of the fruit. Greengage Jam.— Rub ripe greengages through a large hair sieve, and put them into a preserving pan ; then, to a pound o£ pulp, add a pound of sifted sugar; after which boil to a proper thickness, skirni clean, and put it it into small pots. Greengages (to preserve).—\ou must choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split without paring them, and having previously weighed an equal quan- tity of sugar, strew a part of it over them; blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife; next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, very gently, for six or eight minutes ; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking oft' any scum that rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels upon it. Greengages Preserved He/-— ^ ou]r greengages should be pertectlv sound, prick them seven times or more about the stalks; put them into cold water, otherwise they will turn black ; scald them, and have another preserving pan with boiling syrup; strain the water from the greengages, and put them into a deep earthen pan : place them regularly, and pour the boiling s^rup .GUD 289 GUR over them; then let them stand till the next day, then drain all the syrup from them; boil it again, and put it over them; repeat so for seven or eight days, then take another flat earthen pan, drain the syrup from them, place the greengages in this pan ; boil some fresh syrup for half an horn-, and pour it over them, cover them up until they are wanted for use ; or you may put them into pots. Green Sauce.—Mix together a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries; add sugar, and a bit of butter. Stir them well till they come nearly to a boil. GROUSE Roasted. — Grouse should have their heads twisted under the wing. They must be roasted like fowls, but not be over done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread sauce. The sauce for wild fowl may be used instead of com- mon gravy. GRUEL.—Wash two ounces of fresh grits, in warm water several times, and boil it in a quart of water, till the liquid is reduced to about a pint; then strain it through a cloth, and add a spoonful of white wine, and a little sugar • boil it a moment before using. Ghuel ( Water).—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal, with two spoonsful of water, and put it into a pint of water boiling on the Are : stir it well, and boil it quick ; talcing care that it does not boil over ; in a quarter of an hour strain it off; and, if you choose, add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Another way.—Put a large spoonful of oatmeal, by degrees, into one pint of water, and when it is stirred quite smooth, boil it. GUDGEONS (to choose).—Gudgeons are chosen by the same rules as other fish ; they are caught in running streams, and come in about Midsummer, and remain in season five or six months; you may dress them in the same manner as smelts GunoEONS.*—This fish is most com- monly fried ; scale, empty, and wipe them clean, without washing them, flour them, and put them into a good boiling friture of lard or butter. Gudgeons au Court-bouillon.*—Empty and wash your fish, then boil them in a court-bouillon, of equal quantities of wine and maigre broth ; add salt, pepper, and a tew artichoke bottoms; when done, reduce die liquor, and serve them hot. Gudgeons Slewed.*— Scale, empty, and wipe the gudgeons clean, without washing them; then take the dish upon which you serve, and put into it some butter, with parsley, green onions, mushrooms, a couple of shalots, thyme, a bay leaf, and basil, all cut fine; add salt and pepper; place the gudgeons on this, seasoning them over and under, and moistening the whole with a glass of red wine; cover the dish, and set it over a brisk fire, till the sauce is almost consumed; they’will not require more than a quarter of an hour to cook. You may dress smelts in the same manner, but they must neither be scaled or emptied, but only wiped clean. r GUM Paste.—Put a pound of gum- dragon in a basin, with warm water enough to cover one inch above the gum • set this in a warm closet for four-and- twenty hours; have a new tammy ready laid over a dish; spread it on it, and squeeze through as much as you can at first, then open the tammy, spread the gum out again, and then squeeze it ; re- peat this till the whole is through; then lay it on the slab, work it well with your hand, put in nearly all the juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best double refined powder sugar, by degrees, as you work it; but before you have put in the whole of the sugar, begin to add some of the best starch powder; blend them thoroughly together, till the paste begins to take an impression ; then roll it in a cloth, and let it stand in a damp place for a week or ten days (it is the better for keeping), work it with powder, and it will cut and mould to any shape you please and when you want it to harden, set it in a dry place ; if you wish to colour it, to make it red, use cochineal or carmine • for blue or violet colour, use indigo; for’yel- low, saffron ; for green,the juice of beet leaves, scalded over the fire ; the thick part mix with the paste. When you put in colours, be careful to blend them well, and be particular that the colour is good. GURNETS (to Broil).—Having cut off their heads, dip them in melted butter with salt, and broil them, but not over too fierce a fire. Serve them either with plain anchovy sauce, or a sauce made as fol- lows : put some fresh butter, a little flour, and a leek, into a saucepan, with salt' pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with vinegar and water ; add a couple of anchovies ; keep it on the fire, shaking constantly till’ the fish are done ; dish them, and pour the sauce over. vHAG H. 290 IIAM HACHEE Sauce.—Chop, very small, some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, slialots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean bam, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs ; add a good seasoned cullis, and a little mushroom ketchup ; simmer all to- gether for a quarter of an hour. HADDOCKS—Are chosen by the same rules as cod, and are in season during July, August, and September. Haddocks are plain boiled in the same manner as cod, or broiled like whitings; both are served with anchovy sauce; either way they are good with a stuffing inside. . The dried haddock should be soaked a short time in warm water, then laid on a gridiron, over a very clear lire, and slightly broiled ; send them to table in a napkin, and eat them with cold butter. Haddocks (Boiled).—Fill a fish Fettle with cold spring water, to which add plenty of salt; put the haddocks into this, over the fire ; as soon as they begin to boil, salt them well, and set them by the fire to simmer; when done, drain them thoroughly from the water, dish them, and serve with Dutch sauce. Haddocks ( Broiled).*—Take the skins from the number of haddocks you intend to dress ; and toss up the fish in some egg, beaten, with pepper and salt; take them out, and bread them ; then, having dipped them in a clarified butter, bread them a second time ; broil the haddocks to a nice colour, over a moderate fire ; be sure both sides are done equally. Serve them over a good Italienne sauce. Haddock (Dried).—Take the eyes, gills, and entrails, from the fish, also any blood which may settle in them. Wipe them perfectly dry, and salt them *, let them lay twenty-four hours, and then run a string through the eyes, and hang them in a dry Pl'HAGGIS.—Take the heart and lights of a sheep, blanch and mince them ; then a pound of beef suet (chopped fine), the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, a little mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves (all pounded), half a pint of sweet wine, a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped a sufficient quantity of flour to make it of a proper consistence, a little salt, the yolks of three eggs, and some sheep s chitter- lings, well cleaned and cut into slips, jlix these together ; havo ready cleaned a sheep’s bag, put in the above, tie it tight, and boil it three hours. Haggis (Scotch).—'Take the liver and lights of a sheep, boil them, the latter partly only, but the former till it is firm; grate half of it, and mince the lights, a piece of beef, some suet, and onions. mix these ingredients with dried flour, or meal, salt, and pounded spice; make some broth, and pounded spice; make somebroth, with a little beef and the water in which the liver, &c. were boiled, and put it with the rest of the materials into a well cleaned sheep’s bag ; tie it up tight, and boil it. HAM (Directions for choosing).—In choosing a ham, run the knife or a skewer into it at the knuckle, and at the cushion and centre part of the ham by the bone ; if it comes out clean and smells sweet, the ham is good ; but if, on the contrary, the blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank, it is not good. Hams (how to dress).—If the ham has hung for a length of time, put into water for a night; and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or damp stones sprinkled with water, two or three days, to mellow, covering it with a heavy tub, to keep any vermin from it; wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water ; let it sim- mer, four, five, or six hours, according to its size; when done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water ; take off the skin, and strew it all over with bread raspings ; garnish with carrot; preserve the skin as whole as pos- sible, to keep over the liam when cold, which will prevent its drying. Ham (to boil).—Soak the ham, according to its age, for twelve or twenty-four hours. Put it into a large saucepan full of cold water, and, if a small one, let it simmer for two hours, and then boil an hour and a half; when done, pull off the skin, rub it over with volk of egg, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it before the fire, or with a salamander ; or, after having sopped the fat off with a clean cloth, glaze it. IIam a la Braise.—Having taken the rind from a well flavoured ham, soak it m cold water, tie it into a proper shape; tat^ ham and beef, and season them with spice and sweet herbs, shred small, lay them a saucepan, with onions, carrots, an ?• nips, sliced, parsley and scallions , P the ham on this, the fot side uppormos- cover it with slices of bacon, ^ef, roote. and herbs, as under, with a moderate PorIIAM HAM 291 tion of liquor; put on tlie lid, close it tightly, and let it stand for twelve hours, with tire above and below. Set it by till cold; untie, and strew bread crumbs on it, pass a salamander over to brown it, or glaze it. If it be served hot, pour on it the fol- lowing ragout: toss up veal sweet-breads, livers of fowl, cocks’-combs, mushrooms, and truffles, in a little melted bacon ; then put a little gravy, and simmer them a little; take off the fat, and add veal and ham cullis, well seasoned. Ham en Cingarat*—Fry, or (if you like it better) stew some thin slices of ham in s their own fat, over a slow fire; when done, toss up a little water, vinegar, and pepper, in the same pan ; pour this sauce i on the ham, and serve. Ham (Essence of).—Take three or four i pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces I about an inch thick, and lay them in a j stewpan, with slices of carrots, parsnips, I and three or four onions ; let them stew j till they stick to the pan, but take care j they do not burn; then by degrees pour : in some good veal gravy, a few fresh mush- j rooms cut in pieces (or mushroom pow- | der), truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust of bread ; cover it | close, and simmer till pretty thick, then I strain it off for use. Ham Gravy.*—Take a deep saucepan, ; put into it a piece of fresh butter, several slices of ham, about six pieces of veal the | size of a walnut, and two or three carrots i cut in small pieces ; set these over a slow i fire, and let them stand till they give out i their juices, and the ham and veal become i crisp and stick ; then put in a little stock, and let it boil; in an hour’s time add a I glass of white wine, leave it a quarter of an hour, when it will be sufficiently done; ■ take off every particle of fat; strain it into a pan, and set it by for use. Ham a la Gelce*—Take a fine coloured, well flavoured ham, trim it properly, i cutting the large bone in the middle; take off the skin, and pare away great part of ; the fat; then soak it in cold water, for ' twelve hours, if a young ham, but double that time if an old one, changing the water frequently; that period expired, P wrap it in a napkin, and put it into a braising pan, or a large saucepan, full of J water, with or without spices and herbs • let it boil pretty fast at first, then keep it boiling gently for five or six hours ; then Push in a larding pin, and if it comes out easily, the ham is sufficiently done ; let it stand till lukewarm, lay it in a deep dish, cover it with a board, on which place about fifteen pounds ; when cold take off the napkin, trim it again carefully, and. trace on the fat whatever ornament yon may think proper, cover it all over with jelly, put it into the oven, or pass a sala- mander over it, not within eight or ten. inches from it ; dish it, and surround it with pieces of jelly, and place a rosette or palm branch of it on the top of the ham. Ham (Green).*—Rub your pork well with common salt, and "let it lay all night; make a pickle of brine as follows : take two pounds of common salt, one of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of salt prunella, and one pound of brown sugar, pound them well, and boil them in five pints of water; when cold, put in the ham; let it lay on the rind side three days; then turn it every day for a fortnight; when it may be taken out, and hung up. This pickle is equally good for tongues, or raised beef. Ham Loaf.—Soak a fine ham in cold water for one or two days, according to its age; then put it into a saucepan just big enough to hold it, with no moi*e water than will cover it, and a pint of white wine ; let it boil, skimming it carefully till done. When cold, take out the hock and under bones, and the skin; pare away some of the fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as possible. Make a farce with the parings of the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs minced and pound- ed. Take a pan the size you wish to have your loaf, lap all over the inside a pretty firm paste, and then (having cut your ham into thin slices) place alternate layers of it and the farce in the pan, until it be quite full. Put a crust over the top which must unite witli that in which the ham is; turn it over on a baking plate, hour it, and put it into a very hot oven tor an hour and a half or two hours, ac- cording to its size. Serve it cold. Hams (To make).*—Make a brine of the following ingredients Put into your pan. or barrel, sage, thyme, basil, bay leaf balm, juniper berries, salt, and saltpetre’ equal proportions of the best wine lees and water; the proportions of these in- gredients must, of course, depend on the quantity of brine required. When they have infused for some days, strain the liquor, press the herbs, throw a liulo water on the dregs to dissolve all the salt press the herbs a second time, place your ham in the vessel, pour the brine over, u 2HAM I1AM 292 and let it remain a month ; then take it out, drain and smoke it; when thoroughly dry, rub it all over with equal quanties of wine and vinegar, to prevent the flies from touching it; be sure to let it dry well. Ham in March-pane.—Take eightpounds of march-pane paste, knead it up with one pound of loaf sugar to whiten it (and the longer you work them together the whiter it becomes) ; cut it in two parts, one about five pounds weight, the other three; put the latter aside. Then take of cinnamon, cloves, and bole armenia, half an ounce each, pounded very fine, mix them with the largest portion, and add to it a sufficient quantity of red sandal to give it the fine colour of boiled ham ; the whole being well mixed, work it up in the formot a ham; make several incisions in it with a knife, in which insert very thin pieces of the white paste, to represent veins of fat in the lean ; then close these places with your hands. IRoll the white paste to about two or three inches thick, and having moistened the surface of your red paste with water, cover it with the white paste in imitation of the fat, taking care to make it thinner towards the knuckle and sides (as in real ham) than at the higher parts. Then boil a quarter of a pound of chocolate in about a quarter of a pint of water, stirring constantly till it is tolerably thick, dip ahairpencil into it, and do the ham over with it several times, until it forms a kind of crust, like the rind ; this may be covered with crushed macaroons, to resemble the rasped bread with which a boiled ham is generally covered. The chocolate must be kept warm whilst the latter operation is being performed, as otherwise it will become quite hard ; the flavour is greatly improved by adding vanilla to the chocolate. Ham an Naturel.*—Take a fine large ham, trim it in the following manner: take off the rind, and every particle of yellow which may be on the fat; take off, also, the end bone, cut the knuckle, and soak the ham and cook it as directed, (ham u la pelte). When sufficiently done, untie the napkin, take out the bone, then tie it n<rain, lay it in a deep dish and let it cool; trim it, and do it over with rasp- ings ; serve it on a napkin. Ham Omelet’'Take a slice of boiled ham, mince it as small as possible, mid mix it with a dozen eggs, beaten, with a little veal gravy; fry it (keeping it ot an equal thickness) in the usual manner. 11am Pie,—llone fine ham, and trim it properly, taking care to cut off all the yellow fat; soak it according to its age, and then braise it on slices of beef, a pound of bacon (beaten in a mortar), the same quantity of lard and butter, plenty of sweet herbs, roots, and whole pepper. When about three parts done, take it out, and let it cool; then make a thick, raised I crust, put the ham into it, with all the braise, except the beef and herbs, a large glass of brandy; bake it for an hour, and serve it cold. Ham Pie.*—Dress a fine ham as for la gelte (see that article); make a farce as follows : —Take a sous noix of veal, and mince it very small, with an equal quantity of bacon, and the trimmings of the ham when cold (minced small also); season it with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs, shred small; then take all the ingredients, and pound them together, adding, occasionally, a small quantity of jelly. Take three pounds of paste for raised crust, of which form the bottom and sides of your pie, put it on two sheets of buttered paper ; lay some of ihe farce at the bottom of your pie, cut the ham in half, lay one piece on the farce, season, and cover it with the farce ; then put in another piece, season that also, and fill up your pie with the remainder of the farce, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; moisten the borders of the pie and put on the top, fasten the edges together, decorate the crust, and add, if you like, a false top of puff-paste ; make a hole in the middle, dores, and bake it in a hot oven for three or four hours; if, in the meanwhile, it is inclined to take too high a colour, cover it with a wet paper. Ham ( Potted).—Take a pound of cold, boiled, lean ham, and pound it to fine paste, with a quarter of a pound of the fat, or some fresh butter; season it to your : taste, with mace, allspice, pepper, and nut- meg (all in powder). Press it into pot- ting dishes, pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a cool place. Ham {Ragout of).—Cut some thin slices of ham, and having beaten them well, lay them at tire bottom of a stewpan ; place a dish over them, and set the saucepan on a stove till they begin to stick; then put in a little flour, and keep the pan moving, moisten with a little veal gravy that has no salt in it, add pepper and sweet herbs, and simmer over a slack fire ; add ' ca and ham cullis to thicken; set it be ore the fire, basting it well till it is a cleHAM 293 HAR brown. In the mean while, take the fat from the gravy, thicken it with the yolk of an egg, add to it half a dozen hard eggs chopped small, and some pickled cucum- bers cut very thin; pour this sauce into a dish, place the ham in it, and serve. Ham Ragout, with Sweet Sauce*—Toss up a few slices of ham in a saucepan ; make a sauce of red wine, white pepper, a macaroon, cinnamon, and sugar, all pounded ; put the ham to this, squeeze in the juice of an orange, and serve it up. Ham Roasted, with Madeira* ■—Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham, pare and trim it of as round a form as possible ; take off the end hone, and remove the rine from the knuckle ; then lay the ham on a gridiron over the fire, till you can take it up with ease ; soak it, if necessary, and put it in a pan, with slices of carrots and onions, thyme, bay leaf, and coriander; pour a bottle of Madeira or Xeres upon it, cover it with a clean cloth, and close the pan as tight as possible, and let it remain twenty-four hours ; then wrap the ham in very thick paper, fasten it with paste, so that it may be completely enclosed, tie it on a spit, and put it to roast for three hours; then make a small hole in the paper, and pour in, by means of a funnel, tire Madeira wine, paste paper oyer the hole, and let it roastanother hour. When done, take off the paper carefully, so that none of the gravy may escape, mix it with some reduced espagnole, glaze the ham, and serve it. Ham Roll.—Make a farce with some •ham fat and sweet herbs, chopped very fine; cut several thin slices of ready boiled or roasted Westphalia ham; have veady some French roll dough, take a piece of it, flatten it with your hand to the •size you want it, lay a slice of ham on it (so as to cover it), spread some farce over the ham, aud on that a piece of dough .flattened as before, then ham, farce, and dough again, and so on alternately, till the roll is as large as you wish it to be ; then cover the whole with dough, bake it in a moderate oven. Do not cut it till cold. Ham Sauce.—Whenahamisalmostdone j with, pick all the meat that remains ! -irom the bone, leaving out any rustv I part ; beat the meat and the bone to a i mash, with a rolling pin; put it into a ' -Saucepan, with three spoonsful of gravy ; set it °Xer a slow fire, and keep stirring it ■all the time, to prevent its sticking to the bottom. When it has been on some time. Put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs’. some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain oft' the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. Ham and Spinach.*—Take a ham dressed as directed an natural, put it on a sheet of paper, and place it in a saucepan sufficiently large for it to go in with ease, and simmer it for two hours with the following ingre- dients : Two carrots, two onions, garlic, bay leaf, thyme and parsley (all shred very- small, and previously warmed up in but- ter), a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomme; when these are half done, strain the liquor over your ham, cover the saucepan, put fire on the lid, and let it simmer as above mentioned. When done, glaze it several times lightly. Take some very green spinach, tossed up in butter, with salt, nutmeg, and two spoonsful of reduced espagnole, and a little of the ham liquor ; lay the spinach thus prepared on a large dish, drain the ham, and slide it on the dish gently; put a paper as usual round the knuckle and preserve it. Ham Toast*—Cut some crumb of bread into thin slices ; then take an equal number of thin slices of ham, beat them well with a rolling pin, and then soak them in warm water for about two hours ; take them out, dry them well, and put them into a sauce- pan with a little bacon, a slice of veal, and half a glass of stock ; let them boil for half an hour, and then add half a glass of veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice colour in some lard ; lay it on a dish, and on each piece lay a slice of the ham; pour the sauce overthem. Take particular care to cut the ham as nearly as possible the size aud shape of the bread. Ham (Westphalia).*—Rub your ham well with four ounces of pounded saltpetre; and let it lay; the next day boil a quart of the strongest stale beer, with bav salt, common salt, and brown sugar, of each half a pound ; pour it, whilst hot, on the ham, rubbing it all over thoroughly-. Rub it in the same manner twice every day for a fortnight, turning it once a day-. At the end of that time take out your ham, and hang it pretty high in the chimney, with a fire made of sawdust and horse litter (fresh every day), for three days and as many nights : after which, hang them over a baker’s oven, or in any other dry l’lace where there is the smoke from” wood fire. Bo sure you fill the liock-bone with salt. HARE.— I his animal should be kept294 IIAR HAR Jive or six days, or even a week, before it is dressed; the flesh then becomes dark, and soft; but when fresh killed, it is stiff and pale. Of an old hare the opening of the lip is wider than that of a young hare ; the latter may likewise be distinguished l>y the ears being tender and pliable, and the claws smooth and sharp, whereas in an old one, the former are dry and tough, and the latter blunt. Hare.—As soon as the cook receives a Bare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe it well, put in a little pepper, and hang it up. When wanted for dressing, cut off the four legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back, and draw it over the hind legs; leave the tail whole, then draw the skin over the back, and slip out the four legs; cut it from the neck and head ; skin the ears, and leave them on. Clean the vent. Cut the sinews under the hind legs ; bring them forward ; run a skewer through one hind leg, the body, and the other hind leg ; do the same with the fore legs ; lay the head rather back ; put a skewer in at the mouth, through the back of the head and between the shoulders; put in the stuffing, and tie it round with a string, passing it over the legs to keep tnem m their places : the hare is then ready for roasting. See Roasted Hare. Hare a la Manute.—Take a hare that has been kept some time, and cut it into pieces ; boil the liver, and put all together into a stewpan, with about an ounce of butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, sba- lots, mushrooms, and half a clove of garlic ; cover it close, and turn it in eight or ten minutes ; a quarter of an hour will cook it sufficiently: lay the meat in a dish, add a little broth and vinegar to the sauce, and when pretty thick, pour it on the hare. Hare (to Boil).—Take a marrow-bone, with a good deal of beef on it, and a piece of bacon, and a hare; put some salt and water, then boil them ; when the hare is nearly done, take it out; bruise some peas, boil them in the broth ; take out the bone of beef, put in the hare, and boil again till the peas are done, then strain, and put the puree aside; lay the hare in a dish, pour the purde over it, and serve it. Hare a la Broche*—Your hare being properly prepared for dressing, set it on a hot stove to make the meat rather firm, be- fore you lard it: when you remove it Irom the stove, dip your hand in the blood, and pass it over the back and legs ; then lard it at the end of the legs, leaving about an inch between the loin and the leg : then roast it (an houris sufficient), and serve it with the d following sauce: JV] ince the liver very small I whilst raw, and give it a fewturns in a little I butter, with a few shalots, parsley, thyme, | and bay leaf, a tea-spoonful of flour, one glass of white wine, and two of broth ; stir • this[sauce till it boils, add salt and pepper, i then reduce it to nearly half; rub it lightly : through a sieve into a tureen. Hare (Boudin of).9—To make this dish the fillets only must be used—take away i all the nerves and sinews, and then pound : the meat; rub it through a quenelle sieve; roll it up, and set it aside; proceed in the 11 same manner with a calf s udder; soak the 1 crumb of a small loaf in broth, and when j soft, squeeze out all the moisture, and | pound the bread, and rub it through a quenelle sieve. Then take equal portions I of these articles, and pound them together; : j then mix with them some dried sweet : I herbs in powder, a little spice, salt and i pepper. Then according to the quantity • | of farce you have, put three or four yolks, , j and one white of egg, so as to make it easy i to work up : flour the table, put the farce ‘ on it, and roll it up into the boudin, and ! | poach it in boiling water, like the quenelles. I Dip it in butter, bread it, and about a quarter of an hour before serving, broil it: over a moderate fire ; pass a salamander r1 over to colour it; serve it quite dry. It may also be served without poaching, in which case it must be glazed and laid on a fumet of game. If you have not a calf sudderto pound with it, fresh butter is a good substitute; take care, however, to use double the quantity of it. Hare a la Bourgeoise.*—Skin, and cut S hare in pieces ; lard them with large for* dons, rolled in parsley, scallions, garlic (all shred fine), and salt; stew them with 1 half a glass of brandy and two ounces of butter, over a slow fire: when nearly done, and the sauce partly consumed, pour in the blood (having preserved it for that purpose) ; keep it on the fire till this is quite hot, but not boiling; then take out the hare, and lay the pieces on a dish so closely, that it may look like one ; let it stand till cold, and then serve. Hare Coke in Jelly.—Bone a hare, take all the sinews from the meat, and then a pound it with an equal quantity of beel, add mushrooms, shalots (garlic, if 7°n * please), sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, pickled cucumbers, and bacon, cut in dice, and two or three eggs ; mix all • together. Lino a mould with thin s ceIIAR 295 HAR of bacon, put in the hare, &c.; cover it with bacon, and bake it in a moderate oven: when cold, turn it out, place it on a dish, and put over it a jelly made as follows : Take a pound and a half of scrag of veal, a slice of ham, two or three cloves, sweet herbs, a carrot or two, shalots, two bay leaves, an ounce of isinglass; stew these in some beef broth till reduced to a jelly ; add some lemon juice ; strain firstthrough a sieve, and then through a jelly bag; when cold, pour it over the cake, and serve. Hare au Chevreuil.*—Take a fine hare, skin, and cut off the head and shoulders ; beatit flat, and carefully cut the skin from the back and most prominent parts of the rump, which places lard with small pieces of fat bacon, previously soaked in vinegar and water, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaf, garlic, whole pepper, and salt; I let the hare lay in this for two days, then spit it; baste it well while roasting. When done, place it on a dish, and set it in the oven while you glaze the larded parts : reduce two spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and five or six spoonsful of plain | sauce ; when it boils, mix in a little glaze, a piece of butter, and the juice of half a j lemon ; pour this sauce round the hare and serve it. Hare en Civet*—Make a roux, in which put rather more butter than usual; when about three parts done, put in some pieces of streaked bacon, give them a few turns, and then add the hare cut in pieces; and when they have been in a little while, | pour on them a bottle of white or red wine, or a glass of vinegar, some stock or water, a small quantity only of salt (as the bacon I ought to give it a little saltness), pepper, 1 two bay leaves, parsley and scallions, and 1 mushrooms: take care that your meat floats I in the liquor; set it over a large fire, that I it may reduce quickly to three quarters of I its original quantity. Have ready some I small onions peeled, and lightly fried in a 1 little butter; put them into the civet when ! nearly done. In about twenty or five and twenty minutes take it off, and keep I it warm in hot ashes, till it is wanted for : table. Hare en braise.*—Put a boned hare into a braising pan, with salt, pepper, carrots, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, equal quantities of broth and white wine, the bones of the hare, half a knuckle of veal, and thin slices of bacon (having lined the pan previously with the same), braise it over a small fire for an hour and a half; then take it out, strain the liquor, reduce and serve it over tho haie. This dish may also be served cold, with jelly. Hare a la St. Denis.*—Having skinned and otherwise prepared the hare, cut off the head ; season some lardnns to lard the loins and legs, and lay it for two or three days in a pan, with salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, scallions, and two onions, cut in slices. When ready for dressing, take the liver, mince it with an equal quan- tity of bacon, add salt, pepper, and a little pounded spice ; to this put twice as much quenelle farce ; mix them together with the yolks of three eggs ; stuff the body of the hare with it, and sew up the skin. Lay slices of bacon in the braising-pan, place the hare on them, and cover with bacon; put round it some slices of veal, two car- rots cut in slices, three onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, a little salt, and a bottle of white wine; simmer these for two hours, or more, according to the age of the hare. When done, drain and glaze it, then re- duce the liquor to a jelly; add to it two ladiesful of espagnole and a little lemon juice ; put this sauce in a dish, and serve the hare on it. Hare’s Ears.—Take as many pair of ears as your dish will contain; scald them, well, and braise them till tender; add a glass of wine, and a slice or two of lemon; when done, take them out, dip them in a thick batter, and fry them. Serve with any relishing sauce. Hare (Fillets of*), with Anchovies.—Cut the fillets from one or two hares, and lard them with anchovies (soaked in water and in slips forthe purpose) ; simmer the fillets between two dishes for about half an hour, with butter, pepper, and half a dozen shal- lots ; when done, place them on a dish, but keep it hot. Put to the shalots a little cullis, a table-spoonful of verjuice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; keep this on the fire till tolerably thick; pour this sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Hare (Filleisof), larded*—When your hare is skinned, run your knife along the back-bone, from the wing to the leg, and remove the fillet, and lard it with bacon, and form it according to your taste. Put somo slices of bacon into a saucepan, also some slices of onions and carrots, a little thyme and bay-leaf; lay the fillets on this, add a little consomme, and stew them about three quarters of an hour ; having covered them with buttered paper, close the stew- pan and put firo on the lid. When done.IIAR IIAR 296 glaze tliem. Serve them on cucumbers a la creme, a poivrade, or any thing else you choose. Hare (Fillets of), Marines Sautes.*— Take off the fillets, trim and lard them as the fillets sautds; then put them into a pan with salt, pepper, two bay-leaves, thyme, parsley, whole scallions, and a large glass of vinegar; leave the fillets in this for a day. When wanted, take them out, drain and put them into the tossing-pan ; pour in a sufficient quantity of melted butter to make the fillets float; set your pan over a brisk fire ; turn them when done on one side; as soon as they are firm to the touch, take them out, drain, and dish them on a poivrade. Hare (Fillets of), Sautds*—Take ten fillets of hare, cut them into slices, flatten them with a knife, trim them to as round a shape as you can, and as each piece is done, put it into a tossing-pan; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add a little melted butter to it: put your pan over a fierce fire, moving it about to prevent the pieces from sticking ; as soon as one side is done, turn and do the other ; then put them in a dish, take out the butter, but not the gravy, from the pan, and to it put a glass of white wine, and four ladiesful of espagnole,- reduce them to half, and then strain them over the fillets. Take care to drain the fillets from their gravy, that the sauce be not too thin ; it ought, properly, to adhere to them. Hare to Fry.—When the hare is skin- ned, lay it on a gridiron till hot through ; then quarter and fry it to a nice colour in lard; soak some toasted bread in beef stock and white wine, with pounded ginger and cloves ; strain it, add a little verjuice, and serve up the hare with butter, sugar, mustard, and lemon-juice. Garnish the dish with greens and sliced lemon. IIaue, Haricot.*—Prepare a hare as for roasting, cut it in pieces, which put into a saucepan lined with streaked bacon ; add turnips, salt, pepper, sweet herbs, half a pint of good stock or boiling water only. Let it stand, closely covered, over a small fire, and when nearly done, throw in about thirty pieces of fried bread ; skim off tho fat, put it in allot dish, and squeeze lemon-juice over it. . Hare, Hashed.*—Skin and stuff a hare, tie some thin slices of bacon over, and spit it; set it before tho fire, and half roast it; then take it up, cut it in pieces, and having made some good beef gravy, put in the hare simmer it for two hours, then add a glass and a half of port wine ; let it stand a little while longer over the fire, and then serve it with currant jelly. Another way.—Half roast a hare or use the remains of one ready dressed ; cut it in neat pieces ; take the trimmings, add to them three chopped shallots, a bay leaf, blade of mace, and a few pepper corns; fry them in butter, add a sufficient quan- tity of flour to thicken it; add a half a pint of port wine, a knob of sugar, pepper, salt, and squeeze of a lemon; boil these for half an hour with a pint or more of good gravy; strain it to the pieces of hare, and simmer till very tender. Hare (Jugged).*—Having skinned a hare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and divide the back into three pieces; rub them well with fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan with the trimmings, all- spice, mace, whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two bay leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, sweet maijoram, a quart of veal stock, and three gills of port wine; simmer the whole till three parts done ; then take out the shoulders, legs, and back, put them into another stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a litjle flour and butter, stew them till quite done; take off the fat, season with cayenne, salt, and lemon juice, and serve the whole in a deep dish. Hare Loaf.*—Make a farce in the same manner as for the Boudins of bare, with the addition of the liver pounded and rubbed through a quenelle sieve. Take a mould of the size you wish to have the loaf, line this completely with thin slices of bacon ; then put in the farce ; have a saucepan with boiling water, put the mould into it, but do not let the water come within an inch of the top of it, lay thin slices of bacon over the bare, cover the saucepan and put fire on the lid; let the water simmer; in about an hour see if it be sufficiently done; if so, take it from the mould. Glaze and serve it with a fumet of game sauce ; if yon think proper, make a bole in the top, into which put the kidneys of the bare, pre- viously dressed in a little champagne. Hare with Olives.*—Your bare being skinned, cut it in pieces, lard the legs and fillets with small lardons; braise the pieces, but when about three parts done, take them out and put them into a saucepan; then take the gravy of the hare, mix it with the blood of a chicken, soak liver in it, pound, and then add it with the gravy and halfa hundred olives (previously soaked and scalded), to the hare; set it on a slow fire until the olives are tender; put theIJAR 297 IIAR whole into a dish, squeeze lemon juice over, and serve it very hot. Hare Pie.—Cut a hare in pieces, season it with pepper, salt, nutmegs, and mace ; put it into a jug with half a pound of but- ter, cover it close, and set it in a large saucepan of boiling water. In the mean time make a forcemeat with a quarter of a pound of scraped bacon, two onions, a glass of red wine, the crumb of a small loaf, a little sweet marjoram, the liver minced small; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole together with the yolks of three eggs ; make a raised crust, at the bottom of which lay some of the forcemeat, then some of the hare; put force- meat on them, and so on till your hare is all in; add the gravy from the bare, cover the pie, and bake it for an hour and a half. Hare (Potted).*—Skin and wash a hare perfectly clean; cut in pieces, and put i them into a jar with butter, pepper, salt, mace, and herbs, if you choose ; tie it over and set it in an oven with the bread. When done, take the meat from the bones, and pound it with the fat which comes from the gravy, to a fine paste. Press it down closely in pots, and cover it with clarified butter. Hare (Ragout of).—Skin and take all the bones from a hare that has hung some days (leave the head untouched); lay it open on the table ; strew pepper and salt, and spread a good forcemeat over ; roll it np close to the head, tie it up, and stew it in a clear braise, which must be reduced to half the quantity ; then add half a bottle of port, and stew till the hare is done; take it out, and put to the liquor a little plain sauce; reduce the whole to a proper consist- ence add truffles, morels, mushrooms, I cocks combs, fat livers, forcemeat balls, and I artichoke bottoms; a little lemon juice may be added; serve the hare with this sauce." Hare (Roasted).—The hare being skin- 1 ned, cleaned, and trussed, make a o-ood stuffing as follows : A quarter of a pound of beet suet, shred fine, some bread crumbs, the liver boiled and chopped small, sweet i herbs, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg ; mix these together well, bind them with an e™ ! Put th;s into the hare, tie it up, and fasted tt to the spit; put a quart of milk into the dnppmg, and baste the Imre with it. When nearly done, flour the hare well, and baste with butter to froth it. A small hare takes an hour to roast. Another way.—When the hare is trussed and stuffed, cover it with thin slices of oacon, tie them on, baste it with dripping. Some persons prefer stale beer; likewise add an anchovy, a glass of red wine, and another egg, to the stuffing. Serve the hare with gravy and melted butter. TIare, (Roasted).—Cut the skin from a hare that has been well soaked; put it on the spit and rub it well with Madeira, pricking it in various places that it may imbibe plenty of wine ; cover it entirely with a paste, and roast it. When done, take awmy the paste, rub it quickly over with egg, sprinkle bread crumbs, and baste it gently with butter (still keeping it turning before the fire) until a crust is formed over it and it is of a nice brown colour; dish it over some espagnole with Madeira wine boiled in it; two or tbree cloves may be stuck into the knuckles if you think proper. Hare (to Roast) in the Skin.—Clean the inside of the hare in the usual way; stuff and roast it. When nearly done, flay off the skin, strew bread crumbs, cinnamon pounded, and flour over it pretty thick, froth it well, make a sauce with claret, vi- negar, ginger, cinnamon, barberries, and a little sugar; pour it into a dish, lay the hare on it, garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve it. Hare en Saiamis.—Take a cold roasted hare, chop it into small pieces; cut a large onion into dice, and fry it of a good colour in butter, with a bay leaf; add about two spoonsful of flour, and when it is well mixed with the butter, put in a quart of gravy, set it on the fire, and keep stirring until it boils ; then put in the hare, set the saucepan by the side of the fire to simmer, in an hour add half a pint of port, and simmer it for another half hour. When done, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and a small quantity of Cay- enne, and serve it. Hark au Sang *—-Skin and parboil a hare; then take off the skin, cut off' all the meat, and mince it very small; cut. some pork leaf into dice, slice some onions, mix these together, and toss them up over the fire; when the leaf begins to melt, pour on it a pint of pig’s, lamb’s, or calf’s blood ; put in the minced hare, set. them on the fire, and when the whole is of a tolerable consistence, place two cauls open on the table, lay a large slice of bacon on it, put in the hare, &c., cover it. with another large slice of bacon, gathor up the cauls, and form the mass as near ns possible to the resemblance of a hare ; tie it up and bake it. W bon done, clear away the fat, and serve it.HAR IIEA SJ9 3 Hare, to Stew.—Lard and stuff a hare, and put it into a saucepan, with two quarts of good gravy,, one of port wine, a lemon sliced, a bundle of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a dozen cloves; cover it close, and let it stew over a slow fire till three parts done; then take it out, place it in a dish ; mix to- gether bread crumbs, sweet herbs, shred small, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg; Strew them over the hare. Haiie Soup. — Having skinned and cleaned the hare, cut it in pieces and put them into a stewpan with the following in- gredients :—Two onions, each with a cou- ple of cloves in them, parsley, bay leaf, thyme, basil, marjoram, a little mace, and two or three glasses of port wine: set the whole over the stove to simmer; in an hour's time, add as much boiling stock as will cover the hare ; then let it simmer again till done. Take out the meat. Strain the liquor, and lay some crumb of bread in it. Take all the bones out, pound the hare, rub it through a sieve, add the broth to it, and season the whole to your taste. Hare Slewed.—Having skinned your bare, divide just below the ribs; cut the fore part into pieces, and put them into a Stewpan with a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, peppercorns, an anchovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add suffi- cient water to cover them, and let them stew gently. In the meanwhile make a good stuffing, which put into the other part; tie it up, lard and roast it; flour it well, and baste with either butter or small beer. When the stew is tender, take out the meat, strain the liquor, add to it a glass of red wine, a spoonful of ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; stir it over the fire till pretty thick ; then take up the hare, lay it in a dish, place the stewed pieces round, and pour the sauce over. Have some good gravy in a sauce ureen. HARICOT by way of Soup.—Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, put the scrag into a stewpan with a quart of water, four large carrots, and turnips; boil it gently over a slow fire till all the goodness is out of the meat; then bruise the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. Try six onions (sliced) in butter, and put the other part of the meat to the soup, and stew till the latter is tender ; season with pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a tureen. HARTSHORN Cream.—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings in three pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, strain it through a jelly-bag ; put i it to a pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and give them one boil together; then put it into cups or glasses, and let them stand till cold, when turn them out on a dish; stick some sliced I blanched almonds on the top of each. White wine and sugar is usually eaten with them. Hartshorn Flummery.—Boil half a pound of hartsbom-shavings in three pints of water till reduced to one pint; strain it into a basin and set it by till lukewarm; then put to it a pint of thick cream (boiled and cold), a gill of white wine, two spoons- ful of orange-flower water, and a sufficient quantity of powder-sugar to sweeten it; stir all these together till well mixed; dip your moulds in warm water, put in the flummery; when cold, turn them on a dish with cream, white wine, and sugar, mixed together and poured round them. Cut a few almonds blanched into thin slips. lengthwise, and stick in the top of each. Hartshorn Jelly *—Grate a pound of hartshorn, and put it into a saucepan with three quarts of water; set it on the fire • and boil it till reduced to half; then strain it into an earthen pan. Clean the sauce- pan well, and put into it the white of an egg, and a small quantity of water, and whisk it to a froth; put to the decoction of hartshorn, a pound of crushed sugar; , add these to the white of egg, set the saucepan on the fire and skim it well; then add the juice of six lemons strained, and three pints of white wine; give the whole a few boils, then pass it two or three times through a jellv-bag (in which put a little cinnamon). When the jelly is per- fectly clear, pour it into your moulds. The jelly should be strained near the fire, or in a warm place, otherwise it will con- geal, and consequently not strain properly. HASH (cold).—Mince a nice white piece of veal; wash and core some anchovies; take some pickled oysters, pickled cucum- bers, and a lemon; shred and mix them with the veal, and place it in a dish; lay round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, pickled cucumbers sliced, whole pickled oysters, mushrooms, and capers; lettuces shred small; pour in oil and vinegar, salt and pepper, and serve. IIEATHCOCK (to tote).—Open the skin of a heatbcock, take the meat from the breast, aud mince it with beef suet, sweet herbs three artichoke bottoms299 HER HER (boiled), some chestnuts roasted and blanched ; marrow and skirrets boiled : these ingredients being minced very small, geason them with pepper and salt, add the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole toge- ther, and put some of it in the place of the breast; fasten the skin, prick the back, and put it into a stew pan, with broth, marrow, artichoke, cut in pieces, chestnuts, and some of the forcemeat made into balls ; when sufficiently done, take it out, serve it with fried bread, and the sauce ; garnish the dish with slices of lemon, yolks of hard eggs, and chestnuts. HEDGEHOG (to make a).—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them to a i paste in a morter, moistening occasionally i with canary and orange-flower water; beat I the yolks of twelve, and the whites of seven eggs with a pint of cream and some i powder-sugar; put this with the almond I paste and half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, set it over a stove and keep it j constantly stirring till sufficiently firm to be moulded into the shape of a hedgehog; 1 stick it full of blanched almonds, cut length- i wise, into slips, and place it in a dish; | beat up the yolks of four eggs, put them i to a pint of cream (sweetened to the taste); i Stir them over a slow fire till hot, then ■ pour it round the hedgehog and let it stand; i when cold, serve it. A good calf’s foot jelly may be poured | Tound, instead of the cream, if pre- j ferred. HERBS (to dry').— Gather marjoram, Savory, thyme, basil, parsley, &c. on a dry day, in the proper season, before they ! are in flower; divide them into small i bunches, and hang them on a line in a I room where there is a free current of air, hut no sun : in about three weeks, lay I them in rows, in boxes, and keep them in a dry place. Herb Pudding.—Wash, scald, and shred I Small, spinach, beet, parsley, and leeks, of each a handful; have ready a quart of groats (previously soaked in warm water for half an hour), cut a pound of hog’s lard and three onions into dice, mince three I Sage leaves ; mix all these ingredients, add a little salt; and tie them up close in a I cloth : whilst boiling, the string must be ’• loosened to allow it to swell. Herbs (Fine) Sauce of.*—Work up a piece of butter in some flour, melt it, ond then put to it the following herbs, ahred small:—parsley, scallions, tarragon, ! borage, garden-cress, chervil, &c.; boil them altogether for about a quarter of an hour; add a glass of stock, and serve it very hot. Herbs (Stewed).—Take some spinach, two handsful of parsley, and one handful of scallions; chop the two latter, and sprinkle them among the spinach; put them into a stewpan, with a little salt and a bit of butter; when it begins to heat, shake the pan, keeping it closely covered ; let it stand over a stove till done. Herbs (Sweet).—These in cookery are parsley, cliibbol, rocambole, winter sa- vory, thyme, bay leaf, basil, mint, borage, rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. The relishing herbs or Ravigotte, are tar- ragon, garden-cress, chervil, burnet, civet, and green mustard. Herbs a l’Italienne.* — Grate half a pound of bacon, and put it, with six spoonsful of oil, and a quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan ; add to it four dessert-spoonsful of mushrooms, shred small; give them a few turns over the fire. When done, put in two dessert- spoonsful of slialots, give them a turn or two; do the same with two spoonsful of parsley; then do the whole together; add salt, pepper, and spices; when done, put herbs into a pan, to be used when wanted. The herbs must all be shred small before they are put into the saucepan. Herb Pie.—Take a handful of spinach, double the quantity of parsley, picked, two lettuces, mustard, and cress, and the leaf of borage and white beet; wash, scald, and having drained and pressed out all the water, shred them very small; mix them together, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; make a batter with a couple of eggs, a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and some flour; stir it well and pour it on the herbs in a deep dish; cover the whole with a crust, and bake. Herbs (Pottage of).*—Take some sor- rel, lettuce, leeks, and chervil; mince them very small, and do them up in a little fresh butter. When well amalga- mated and sufficiently done, moisten them with a proper quantity of stock or broth, and pour the whole on the bread, pre- pared as usual, in the soup tureen. Herbs (Common Pottage of).* — Take two lettuces, a handful of sorrel, the samo of chervil, and having washed them well, bruise and put them into a saucepan, with remains in the pot after broth has been strained ; set them on the fire, and when the herbs are tender, add broth, and let them stew till sufficiently done. Then soak bread as usual, lay it, covered with300 HER IIER the lettuces, &c., in a tureen, and pour the soup over. HERON Pie.—Break the breast hone, and lay the bird in soak for an hour iu warm water and salt. Shred some onions and sweet herbs very fine ; make them into balls, with a little butter; add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace in powder ; put some of these into the heron, lard the breast, and lay bacon on the wings. Make a raised crust, in which place the bird, with the remainder of the balls round it; squeeze in some lemon juice, cover the pie, and bake it; when done, raise the top, pour in a little gravy, and let it stand till cold. Heron (To Roast).—When the heron is picked, parboil it, lard the breast and back ; roast it, basting with white wine and butter, beaten together : strew over it bread cnimbs, mixed with sweet herbs, shred small. Beat up the yolks of eggs with a little claret and vinegar, and some chopped anchovies : when roasted, serve it garnished with rosemary leaves, orange and lemon sliced. HERRINGS.—There are three sorts of herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or red her- rings. They are emptied and cleaned like any other fish; when fresh, they are broiled, and served with melted butter, white sauce, &c. The salted herring should be soaked in cold water before it is cooked ; this is also broiled ; sometimes, however, it is cut in pieces, and eaten raw. The red herring is split down the back, the head and tail are cut off, and the fish broiled like the others. They may also be dressed as follows : when they have lain in cold water a suffi- cient time, soak them for two hours in milk, then split them down the back; then have ready some melted hulter, in which has been mixed basil and bay leaf, minced small, the yolks of two eggs, pep- per, and nutmeg; rub the herrings well with this, bread them; broil them over a gentle fire, and serve with lemon juice. ■ The best red herrings are full of roe, are firm and large, and have a yellow cast. Of the fresh herring the scales are bright if good, the eyes are full, and the gills red, the fish also should bo stiff. Herrings (Boiled).—Scale, and other- wise prepare the herrings in the usual way ; dry them well, and rub them over with a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails in their mouths, lay them on a fish plate, and put them into boiling water; in ten or twelve minutes take them out, drain them, lay them on the dish, the heads towards the middle ; serve them with melted butter and parsley, and garnish with horseradish. Herrings (To Pickle).*—Let the fish be well cleaned and gutted, but not opened; take salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg; pound and mix these spices well; then i j rub a pan with an onion, strew some of :; the spice over the bottom, and put in as many fish as will lay flat on the bottom; , i then put a layer of sliced onion, then fish, , and so on alternately, till the pan be filled; strew the pounded spice between each i layer; pour the best vinegar over, so as • to cover the whole ; tie a brown paper • i over the pan, and bake till the bones are • soft. Sprats and mackarel are, likewise, i pickled in this way. N. B. The heads and tails must be cut off. Herrings (Pickled).*—These fish are usually broiled, and served with a puree ■ of vegetables, or butter sauce. They are sometimes, however, used as a hort i d'oeuvre, when they are cooked as follows: Take six pickled herrings, cut off the heads, ends of the tails, and fins ; skin and soak them in equal quantities of milk and i water; then drain and dish them with slices of onions, and apples. They are eaten with oil. Herring Pie.—Scale and clean the her- rings, cut off’ the heads, fins, and tails. | Lay a crust at the bottom of a dish ; strew over it mace, pepper, and salt (all pound- ed) ; put in a little butter, lay in some of the herrings, season them, then put a layer of apples and onions, sliced thin ; then herrings again ; add some water, and a little more butter ; cover the pie, and hake it well. Herrings (Potted).—Cutoff the heads, and lay the herrings close in an earthen- pan ; strew a little salt between each layer ; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, and a nutmeg, cut in pieces; fill up the pan with vinegar, water, and a little white wine ; cover the pan close, and bake the fish : when cold, pound it, and put it bv in pots in the usual way.—(See Potted ■ Beef.) ' . Herring-roes (fresh), en Caisscs. Scald, and drain the roes of twenty or thirty' fresh herrings; give them a few turns over the fire, with little butter, sweet herbs, mushrooms, salt, and pepper, ,301 IIOG HER but do not let them take colour: make a paper case, over the bottom of which lay some farce, to the depth of half an inch ; oil the case, and set it on a gridiron, over- hot ashes : as soon as the gratin is formed, put in the roes, strew raspings over them: do them in a Dutch oven before a mode- rate lire, a few minutes is sufficient, take off the fat, and serve the roes with espag- nole, and lemon juice. Herrings {Soft Roes of), en Caisses.— Make a paper case to fit the dish you in- tend to use, and spreud butter over the bottom of it. Broil eight soft-roed her- rings ; when done take out the roes very carefully, and lay them in a case. Sprinkle ■ pepper, salt, grated bread, and shred j parsley, over them ; butter and bake them in a hot oven; when done, pour a maitre d'hotel into the case, and the juice of a i lemon : serve them very hot. Herrings {Stewed).-—Clean and put the errings into a fish-kettle, with a sufiicient quantity of stock to cover them; add two r three cloves, a carrot, pepper-corns, an onion, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, pars- ley, and half a bottle of port wine. Stew the fish in this till done, then take them out, keep them hot, strain, and reduce the liquor with a little sauce tournee-, then pass it through a tammy into another stewpan, stir in a little butter and lemon juice, dish your herrings, and pour this sauce over them. Herrings (Red;.*—Take half a dozen red herrings, cut off the heads and tails, split them along the back, and open them; lay them on a dish and pour oil on them; broil them on both sides (two or three seconds are sufficient); take them off, and serve them instantly. Herrings {Red) a la Bruxelloise*— Make a case with thick paper, butter it well, and lay in it eight or ten herrings, prepared as follows : cut off the heads and taijs, take away the bones and skins, and cut them lengthwise into two fillets; put between ^ each fillet a piece of butter, mixed with sweet herbs, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, sbalots, garlic, pepper, and olive oil; sprinkle them pretty thickly with raspings, broil them slowly over a gentle fire, so as not to burn the paper, in which they must be served, whilst very hot, with lemon juice squeezed over them. Herrings {Red), with Herbs.* — Take the best red herrings, skin and take off the heads and tails; cut them into fillets lengthwise, and soak them in milk for four hours, then drain and put them into a saucepan with some butter, a little oil, parsley, and sweet herbs (shred small), salt, and pepper; let them simmer for half an hour, take off the fat, and serve them hot: if the sauce be too thick add a little orange juice. Herrings {Red), a I’ltalienne.*—Soak the herrings to take out the salt; open and clean them well, flour them inside and outside, fry them in butter and oil, serve them laid on fried parsley. HIPPOCRAS.*—lake one ounce of cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two penny weights of cloves; nutmeg, and galangal a penny-weight of each. Pound these together well, and infuse them in a pint of red or white wine, and a pint of malmsey ; to this, add a pound of the best loaf sugar. These proportions will make a quart of the liquor. Hippocras {red).—Pour a gallon of claret into an earthen pan, put to it a blade of mace, some long pepper, four grains of white pepper, a drachm of cinna- mon, and a little of coriander-seed (all bruised separately); add two pounds of powder sugar, and a dozen sweet almonds pounded. Hippocras (white).—Take a gallon of white wine, two ounces of cinnamon, two pounds of sugar, a little mace (all in powder), a few peppercorns, and a couple of lemons cut in quarters. When these have infused some time, strain it three or four times through a jelly-bag. This liquor may be flavoured with musk, or ambergris, by tying a small quantity of either drug (beaten, with a little sugar) in a piece of cloth, and putting it in the bag through which it is strained. HOG’S Blood.*—Cut an onion into dice, and fry it in either butter or lard, when done, pour in the blood, stir it well, add boiled rice, or barley, and season it very high with pepper and salt. Hoc’s Cheeks {to Dry).—Having cut the snout and taken out the brains, split the head, remove the upper bone, rub the cheeks well with salt, and let it stand : the next day, rub away that, and add fresh salt; the following day, cover the head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay, and a little common salt, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, turn it frequently. When it has lain thus ten days, take it out, and smoke it like bacon. Hog’s Eo-s Forced.—Parboil two or three pair o fhog’s oars : then take an an- chor f, some sage, parsley, and half a302 HOT IIOG pound of suot (all chopped small), bread crumbs, and pepper ; bind these together with the yolk of an egg; stuff the ears with this, fry them in batter to a nice colour, pour away all the fat, and put them into a stewpan with half a pint of rich gravy, a glass of Madeira, three spoonsful of mustard, a piece of butter, rolled in flour, an onion, and a little pepper, cover the pan close, and stew gently for half an hour, shaking them occasionally ; when done, take out the onion, lay the ears in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Hoc’s Head (excellent Meat of).—Put a bead into some tongue pickle, and when it has lain sufficiently long, take it out and boil it till the bones will come out with ease ; then skin, bone, and chop the meat, whilst hot; season it with pepper (black and white), nutmeg, and salt, if necessary ; lay part of the skin at the bottom of a pott- ing pan, press in the meat, cover it with the remainder of the skin, put on a weight, and let it stand till quite cold. Then turn it out. Boil the liquor it was dressed in with some vinegar, skim it well, and when cold put the head into it. Hog’s Head like Brawn.—Wash ahead thoroughly, and boil it, till all the bones will come out; then let it cool. Put the inside of the cheeks together, with salt between, and the ears round, lay them in a cloth, and press them into a round pan, put a weight on, and let them remain two days: then boil a pint of malt, with salt and water, and when cold put the head into this pickle. Hoo’s Head, as Wild Boar.—Cut the head close to the shoulder, bone the neck part, cut off the chops, part of the flesh of the nose, as far as the eyes, take the bone off, and lard the inside with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and spices ; rub it all over with common salt, half an ounce of salt- petre ; put it into a pan, with half a hand- ful of juniper-berries, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, cloves, half a handful of coriander, cover the pan, and leave it for a week; then take out the head, tie it up, dry it; put it into a saucepan, with three pints of red wine and water, onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of garlic, half a nutmeg grated, thyme, bay-leaf, six cloves, and two pounds of lard ; taste the braise before it is quite done ; add salt if necessary: it is sufficiently cooked when it gives way to the touch : let it cool in the braise, and serve it cold, gnmishod with bay-leaves according to fancy. Hoc’s Puddings. (See Black Puddings,) HONEY to Clarify—( M. Fouque’s Me- thod.)*—Take six pounds of honey, a pound and three quarters of water, two ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, five ounces of coal (pulverized, washed, and well dried), the whites of three eggs beaten in three ounces of water, for each pound of honey. Put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs, into a copper vessel, capable of holding t about one-third more than the above quan- t tities ; let them boil for two minutes; throw in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and continue the boiling two minutes ! longer, then take the saucepan from the fire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an . hour, that the liquor may cool ; then take 1 a new sieve (which must be well washed, | or it will impart a disagreeable taste), pass the honey through it, taking care to filter the first drops twice, as they generally carry with them some portion of the coal. The syrup which still adheres to the coal, and other materials, maybe separated, i as follows : pour boiling water on them until they no longer retain any sweetness; then put these different waters together, set them over a large fire to evaporate, till the syrup only remains. This syrup con- tracts the flavour of barley sugar, and must I not be added to the clarified honey. HOPS*—The early shoots of hops are sometimes used in the spring, as substi- tutes for asparagus; they are dressed in the same manner ; and served with a white sauce, or with oil. HORSERADISH Sauce Cold.—Chop up some parsley, chibbol, sbalots, a clove of garlic, capers, and anchovies; to these add a spoonful of horseradish scraped very fine, a spoonful of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. HonsEHADisii Sauce Hot.—Slice two onions, and fry them in oil, and when they begin to colour, put them into a sauce- pan. until a glass of white wine, the same of broth, two slices of lemon, peeled, two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and two cloves ; boil these a quarter of an hour, and then strain it; add capers, and an anchovy chopped, pepper, salt, and a spoonful of horseradish, boiled to a pulp ; warm the whole without boiling. HOTCH-POTCH.—Take some old pease, and stew them with some onions in a little water, with a beef or ham bone: in the mean while fry some mutton chops, well seasoned to a nice colour ; and a on303 ICE ICE an hour before serving put them into a stewpan, pour the pease, &cc. over, add a little butter rolled in flour, and stew them. Serve all together in a soup dish, knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with the pease, onions, and lettuces without frying, is also an excellent way of making this dish. HoTcii-roTcn.—Cut four ox tails into pieces at the joints, take a pound of gravy beef, and the same of pickled pork, cut each in half, and put these articles into a saucepan, cover them with water, and when it boils, skim it well; add half a savoy, two ounces of mushrooms, some i turnips, carrots, onions, leeks, celery, a i bay leaf, whole pepper, allspice, and a ! little mace; when nearly done, put in two i quarts of veal stock ; as soon as the meat is tender, take it out, and put into a deep dish, but keep it hot; strain the liquor, take off all the fat, season it with Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice ; have ready some carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, the three for- mer cut in pieces ; stew these separately till tender, and strain off their essences to the above liquor; clear it with whites of eggs; strain it, put in the vegetables; boil the whole gently for ten minutes, and then pour it over the meat. Hotch-potch.—Take some young car- rots, cut them into round pieces, all the same length ; boil them in a little stock, with a small quantity of sugar ; when sufficiently done, reduce the sauce; put some good espagnol to them, season it well, take off the fat, and serve. Hotch-potch Soup.—Blanch some car- rots, turnips, and celery, cut in pieces of an equal length ; put them into some clear brown stock, and boil them for about an hour ; in the mean while, stew a few mut- ton chops, and just before it is served, put them into the soup ; cut some crusts of bread into thin slices, trim, and soak them separately in some broth, lay them carefully in a tureen, and pour the soup with the meat and vegetables on them ; do this gently, so that the bread be not broken. I ICE.*—Sorbetieres or moulds for cream or fruit-ices, are made of two sorts of ma- terials, block-tin and pewter; of these, the latter is the best, the substance to be iced congealing more gradually in it than in the former: an object much to be desired, as when the ice is formed too quickly, it is very apt to be rough, and full of lumps, like hail, especially if it be not well worked with the spatula; the other utensils neces- sary for this operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork at the bottom, and a wooden spatula about nine inches long; being so far provided, fill the pail with pounded ice, over which spread four handsf'ul of salt; then, having filled the sorbetiere, or mould, with cream, &c. put on the cover, and immerse it in the centre of the ice- pail ; taking care the ice touches the mould in all parts ; throw in two or more handsful of salt, and leave it a quarter of an hour ; then take the cover from the mould, and with the spatula stir the con- tents up together, so that those parts which touch the sides of the mould, and consequently congeal first, may be mixed with the liquid in the middle ; work this about for seven or eight minutes ; cover the mould, take the pail by the ears, and shake it round and round for a quarter of an hour; open the mould a second time, and stir as before ; continue these opera- tions alternately, until the cream, or what- ever it may be, is entirely congealed, and perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. Take care to let out the water, which will collect at the bottom of the pail, by means of the cock, and press the ice close to the sorbetiere with the spatula. When the cream is iced, take it from the pail, dip the mould in water, but not to let it remain an instant ; dry it quickly, turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this manner; the preparation of the articles of which they are composed, constitutes the only difference between them. Ice for Icing (how to prepare).—Take a few pounds of ice, break it almost to pow- der, and throw in among it a large handful and a half of salt; you must prepare in the coolest part of the house, that as little of the warm air as possible may come. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so that it may touch every part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon m, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If tlie ice-cream or water, be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holosin the bucket, to let the ice oft' as it thaws,304 IND IRI Iceing far Cakes.—For a large cake, beat ami sift eight ounces of fine sugar, put it into a mortar, with four spoonsful of rose water, and the whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the ice- ing, and cover the cake well; set in the oven to harden, but do not let it remain long enough to discolour. Keep the cake in a dry place. Ice a very large Cake.—Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs : then, by degrees, heat a pound of double refined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen pan: add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon peel; do not use more of the orange-flower water than is just sufficient to flavour it. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white ; then, with a thin broad bit of hoard spread it all over the top and sides, and set in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. Iceing for Tarts.—Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well together; wash the tarts with a feather, and sift su- gar over as you put them into the oven ; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. Ice Water.—Rub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give it the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it is put into the ice pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little Seville used, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. IMPERIAL.—Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and peel of two le- mons, into a stone jar; pour on them seven quarts of boiling water ; stir, and cover close. When cold, sweeten it with loaf sugar, strain it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in bottling, half a pint to the whole quantity. INDIA Pickle.—Prepare the following as directed in each article, viz : Gherkins, cau- liflowers, button onions, drum cabbages, sliced cucumbers, French beans, carrots cut fancifully&halfboiled, rock samphire, rad- dish pods nasturtiums, Cayenne pods green and red. To every gallon of best white wine vinegar, put a quarter of a pound of bruised ginger, two ounces of allspice, three of white pepper, two of turmeric, an ounce of Chillies, ono pound of flour of mustard, six ounces of bay salt, and a little common salt, and boil for twenty minutes ; blanch some shallots, and garlic, and mustard seed in some of the liquor separately, and add to it the other liquor when cold, and the spice strained. When all is ready mix your pickles and liquor all together in a large pan ; let it stand two days, stirring it now and then with a wooden spoon ; fill your jars, tie them over with bladders and leather, and keep them some months before 11 using. Fill them up at times with the : ‘ overplus of the liquor, which.put carefully away. India Pickle.—Take one pound of gin- j ger, put into it a pan with salt and water, and let it lay all night, then scrape it, and cut it into thin slices ; put it into a pan with half a pound of bay salt, and let it lay till all the following ingredients are pre- pared ; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, then let it lay in salt for another three days, then take it out and let it lay in the sun for another, till half dry; an ounce of long pepper, an ounce of capsi- cum, salted and laid in the sun for three days, a pint of black mustard-seed bruised, . half an ounce of turmeric, beat very small; ; put all these ingredients together in a jar, then put in as much vinegar, as when the cabbage, or whatever you intend to pickle, is put into it, the vinegar will rise to the top of the jar. Then take cabbage, canli- •! flower, or whatever you choose to pickle, and cut them into small pieces, throw a good handful of salt over them, and set them in the sun (when it is very hot) for three days; drain the water from them every day, and fresh salt them again, turning the leaves till they are dry, then . put them into the pickle, being particular j that they are completely covered with the the vinegar ; tie it up close, let it stand a fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, . carefully watch it from time to time, to fill it up with vinegar, as it will waste • very fast. India Pickle.*—One gallon of vinegar, one pound of garlic, a quarter of a pound I of long pepper split, half a pound of flour of mustard, one pound of ginger ' scraped, and split, and two ounces of tur- meric. When you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot over it, and stir it every day for a week. Then put in your cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you in- tend to pickle. . Inisn Stew.—Take the best end of a neck of mutton, take off the under bone, and cut it into chops ; season them with pepper, salt, a little mushroom powder, and beatenITA JAC 305 mace. Put them into a stewpan, add a large onion sliced, some parsley and thyme tied in a bunch, and a pint of veal broth. Simmer the chops till three parts done, then add some onions and whole po- I tatoes peeled, and let them stew till done. • Serve it up in a deep dish. The parsley and thyme must he taken out, when the stew is to be served up. Isinglass (to clarify').*—Take about two ounces of the best and clearest sort of isinglass for a quart mould of jelly ; put it into a stewpan, with just sufficient quantity of cold water to completely cover it; set it by the stove, with a spoon in it to stir it at times, and skim it when any scum rises ; let it boil very gently, and well reduce, only be careful not to reduce it too much, as it will burn, and, of course, : get a bad taste, and spoil your jelly; when you think it is sufficiently reduced, and looks clear, pass it through a sieve into a basin, ready for use. Isinglass (to clarify').*—Take an ounce and quarter of the best isinglass, cut it into small pieces, and wash them several times in warm water. Put the isinglass into a preserving-pan, with five glasses of filtered water ; set it on the fire, and as soon as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, so as to keep up the boiling; take off the scum directly it rises; and when the whole is reduced to three quarters, strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. Some add, in clarifying isinglass, lemon peel, to remove its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglass ought to have no flavour, and as the lemon peel is certain to give a yellow tinge to that, it is much better left out. _ Isinglass Flummery.—Put six ounces of | isinglass into a quart of new milk, sweeten it, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring i one way all the time, till it is jellied ; pour it into basins, and when cold turn it out; f you may put in orange-flower water if you : like. Isinglass Jelly.—Take an ounce of isin- | l,lass, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a quart of water; boil it till reduced to a pint, then strain it over some su°*ar. Italienne.*—Put into a saucepan a spoonful of shred parsley, half a spoonful of shalots, the same of mushrooms (both 1 minced small), half a bottle of white wine, and an ounce of butter; boil these till no moisture remains, then put in two ladles- ful of veloute, and one of consomme, set it to boil, taking care to skim off all the fat; when you find it about the consistence of clear broth, take it from the fire, put it into another vessel, and keep it hot in he bain- marie, and season it. Italienne with Truffles.—Chop some nice black truffles, sweat them in a little consomme, and mix them with the brown Italian sauce. If you happen to hare no Italienne ready, stew them for half an hour in an espagnole only. Keep this sauce thin and highly seasoned. J. JACK or Pike (to choose).—If the fish is fresh, the gills will be red, the fish stiff, and the eyes bright: the best sort are caught in rivers, the worst are caught in ponds ; it is an extremely dry fish, and very much improved by stuffing and sauce. They are not thought much of in England, but are much esteemed in inland countries. Jack or Pike.*—If you wish to serve it as a principal dish, do not scale it, but take off the gills, draw it, and boil in court- bouillon. If as a side-dish, it is dressed many ways; as for instance, cut it in pieces, leaving the scales on, and cook it in court-bouillon ; when done, and you are ready to serve, take off the scales, and dish it for table, pouring over it any white sauce you think proper, to which it is usual to add capers. It may also be fricas- seed like chickens ; in this case, cut it into pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with a slice of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some mushrooms ; turn it a few times over the fire, and then shake in a little flour; moisten with good stock and white wine, and stew it over a brisk fire ; when done, and agreeably seasoned, put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up in cream. It may also be dressed ere matelote ; or it may be fried, being first steeped in a marinade. Jack or Pike (Small) a VAllemande.— Draw them, and cut them into pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with some slices of onion, whole parsley, two bay leaves, some leeks whole, two cloves, salt, coarse pepper, and a bottle of white wine. Having simmered half an hour, take them off the fire, scale them, cut oil'the fins, and put the slices into a saucepan. Then strain some court-bouillon through a silken sieve, pour it over the fish, and keep them hot. When you wish to serve, drain the slices of fish, and arrange them on the dish. Put a good piece of butter into a saucepan, with a spoonful of flour, some grated nutmeg, coarse pepper, and half a glass of court-bouillon; turn this sauce over th® xJAC 306 JAC fire till it boils; then add the yolks of two ego-s to thicken, stirring it well, hut with- out letting it boil; lastly, strain, and pour it over the fish. Jack or Pike a l Arlequvne.—Take a laroe jack, clean and scale it, take out the entrails by the gills ; raise the skin from one side, he careful not to injure the fish; lard a fourth part of it with anchovies, another quarter with gherkins, a third ■with carrots, and a fourth with truffles. Stuff it with a fish farce, put it into a fish- kettle ; moisten it with a braise ; do not, however, let the larded parts soak in it ; set it on the fire, basting frequently with its own liquor ; keep fire on the top as well as under it. When done, serve it over a sauce hackee. . Jack or Pike (Baked).-Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuit it with the following stuffing : Some grated bread crumbs, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, halt a pint ot cream, the yolks of four eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; rub it all over with butter, and bake it. Serve with a sauce of gravy, butter and anchovy. In helping a pike, the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards; by this means there will be fervor bones given. Jack or Pike (Boiled) —Take a large jack, clean it, take out the gills ; make a stuffing with crumbs of bread grated fine, some sweet herbs chopped small, some grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, some oysters chopped small, a bit of but- ter • mix all these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggs; put it into the fish, and sew it up; turn the tail into the mouth, and boil it in pump-water, with some vinegar and salt in it; when it boils put in the fish : if the fish is large, it will take about three quarters of an hour to boil. Serve with oyster sauce poured over the fish, and some also in a boat. Jack or Pike, Bride’s Fashion,-Cut a pike into several pieces, boning and flat- tening them as much as possible; roll a Eood farce round them; tie them in bits of cloth, and braise them in w]™ne and broth, with a bit of butter, bits o roots, a bundle of herbs, pepper, and salt When done, strip each bit, and servo with It sauce you ‘think proper ; arelishing sharp sauce* is generally considered the t0ftACK or Pike broiled as Cutlets.—The fillets of pike being taken off with a sharp knife, cut each fillet in a sloping manner into four or five pieces, at the same time taking off the skin ; toss them up in an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt; lay them on paper, bread crumb them, and with a fork take them up, and dip them into clarified butter, then in bread crumbs again ; broil them over a moderate fire of clear wood ashes, a good colour on both , sides; place them en couronne (in form of a crown) round the dish; squeeze the : juice of nearly half a lemon in four table- j spoonsful of butter sauce, mix this well 11 up with a bit of glaze ; when very hot, .: pour it into the centre of the fish. Jack or Pike a la Chambord.*—Take off the scales, and clean a good-sized jack; i remove the skin, and lard the fish, and ! i put it into a fish-kettle with a marinade; when it boils, take it out, and place it in ; the oven, basting it occasionally. As soon, l as it is sufficiently done, take it from the oven, let it drain, and then serve it: place . round it quenelles, veal sweetbreads larded, crayfish, artichoke bottoms, croutons, and a garniture a la Chambord* to these may be added pigeons a la Gautier, eels larded . with truffles, &c. Jack or Pike au Court-bouillon * Clean the fish without opening it, tie up the head, put it in the fish-kettle; pour the ■ court-bouillon over, and simmer it for an hour, or longer if the fish be large. Ii it ' is served as a rot, let it cool, then lay a napkin in a dish, place the fish on it, gar- ■ nished with parsley. Jack or Pike au Dauphin.*—Empty and . scale a large jack ; soak it in oil, with sweet herbs, salt and spices: pass a^ skewer through its eyes and the middle of the body, giving it the form of a dolphin; bake it, basting with the marinade, and serve it with capers or anchovy sauce. Jack or Pike Fricassee (White). Thoroughly wash the pike, then cut it into large pieces, and put them into a stewpao, with butter, some mushrooms, a dozen of small onions half boiled, some parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, a bay leaf; soak these together some time, then add a pint of white wine and broth, salt, and whole pepper; boil on a quick fire, reduce the sauce; take out the parsley, shalots, cloves, thyme, and bay leaf, anil thicken with cream, eggs, and a little nut- meg, and a squeeze of lemon, provided wine does not make it sufficiently tart. Jack or Pike with Gravy *—Lard * jack with bacon ; line a stewpan with s >*** veal and bacon; lay your jack on them,JAC 307 JEL cover it with the same, and let it stand over a slow fire for half an hour, then pour over it a bottle of white wine, and a pint of good stock or consommtt; close the stewpan tight, place it in the oven ; when done, serve it with the braise and its own gravy. Jack or Pike (Grenadins of).*—Having scaled and otherwise prepared the fish, cut it into pieces, lard them with streaky bacon, and put them into a stewpan; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and fillet of veal cut into dice, white wine and broth ; stew it, and when done, strain the liquor; lay I the pieces of jack in a dish, glaze them, and serve with any sauce you please. Jack or Pike a l’Italienne.*—Put some small jack into a stewpan with some olive oil, sliced onions, a clove of garlic, car- i rots, a bay leaf, white wine, stock, salt, and pepper; stew them over a slow fire, take off the fat, and serve them in the sauce. Jack or Pike a la Maitre d’Hotel*—. Having cleaned, scalded, and emptied some small pike, wrap them in a sheet of buttered paper, and broil them. When done, open them, and take out the spawn (if there be any), and put in its place a piece of butter, worked up with some shred parsley, salt, and pepper. Jack or Pike en Matelote.*—Cut the pike in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with bay leaf, a clove of garlic, parsley, scallions, scalded onions, salt, pepper, and a bottle of red wine; boil it up, and add some butter, mixed with flour, and browned with whatever garniture you may have by you; boil the whole together half an hour, and then serve all the articles together in a large dish. Any other fish may be added to the matelote; but they should not be put in till the pieces of jack are partly done. Jack or Pike (Potted).—Scale it, and cut off the head : split it, and take out the backbone ; strew it all over with bay salt and pepper; cover it, and bake it;'then take it out, and lay it on a coarse cloth to drain ; when it is cold, lay it in a pot just large enough to hold it, and cover it with clarified butter. It must be thoroughly drained from the gravy, otherwise it will not keep. < Jack nr Pike Salad.*—Cut the remains pfa cold pike into pieces, and mix with it capers, gherkins, anchovies, and some herbs, shred : serve the jack, garnishing the dish with lettuces and hard eggs. Mix oil and vinegar at table. Jack or Pike stuffed and roasted.*—Let the fish lay for some days, then empty and scale it: if it be for a maigre dish, lard it with anchovies and gherkins, or truffles : if not, with bacon rolled in salt, spices, shred parsley and scallions ; stufFit: wrap the fish in a buttered paper, on which spread sweet herbs, spices, and salt • fasten it on the spit, and baste with white wine and melted butter. When done take off the paper, and serve with a pretty thick sauce piquante. * JARDINIERE.* — The jardiniere is composed of the same articles, and in a similar manner to the Macedoine; the only difference consists in the sauce, the ve- getables for this being put into a reduced espagnole, or the demi-glace of roots : it is used on the same occasions as the Mace- doine. jauinji. mange. . . — -o— ■ nou an ounce of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water till melted; strain it, then add the juice of two Seville oranges, a quarter of a pint of white wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten and strained ; sugar accord- ing to taste; stir it over a gentle fire till it just boils up : when cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if there should happen to be any sediment, not to pour it in. JELLY to cover cold Fish Take a maid, clean it, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s foot or cowheel a stick of horseradish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper a bit of lemonpeel, and a slice of lean gammon of bacon. Let it stew till it will jellv then strain it off; when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sedi- ment and boil it with a glass of sherrv the whites of five eggs, and a bit of lemon . i wlthout stirring it, and after a few minutes, set it by to stand for half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve with a napkin in it. When cold, cover the fish with it. Jellies for Entremets* — Hartshorn, calf s feet, and isinglass, are the usual matenaJs used to coagulate sweet jellies • of these three, the latter is the best as’ when properly clarified (for which see Isinglass), it is the clearest, and lias no unpleasant flavour. Jellies are made of all sorts of fruit and sometimes of flowers and liqueurs. ’ For directions to prepare them, see the various articles of which they are composed. Jelly of Fomage Bavarois.*— Put the yolks of nine eggs into a stewpan, with a little salt, half a pound of sugar, a pinch x 2308 JEL JEL of crisped orange flowers, and half a pint of cream (previously boiled) : set these over a centle fire, and stir till it thickens, takino- particular care that it does not boil; then strain it through a silk sieve; have ready an ounce of clarified isinglass, mix it with the cream and a Chantilly cheese; when well incorporated, pour it into a mould, and finish with ice as jelly printanniere. Jelly (Fruit)-*—Clarify half a pound of sugar, hut the instant helore it is quite clear” put in a small quantity of cochineal; then strain, and mix with it an ounce of clarified isinglass, and the juice of two lemons; add to this the fruit of winch your jellv is to he composed; stir them together lightly, pour the jelly into a mould quickly, and put the mould on ice. , Observe that the sugar and isinglass should be no more than lukewarm when mixed together. These jellies may be made of any kind of fruit, or the giated rinds of lemon, orange, or cedrats. Jelly (Gloucester).— lake an ounce of rice, the same of sago, pearl barley, harts- horn shavings, and eringo root; simmer with three pints of water, till reduced to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be a jelly; when you use it, serve dissolved in wine, milk, or broth. Jelly (Italian).— Make a wine or calf s foot jelly, with which half fill your mould ; when thoroughly set, take some Italian cream that has been turned out of a plain mould, cut this into slices, and afterwards cut it with a middling-sized plain round cutter ; these pieces ot cream lay in a cir- cle round your jelly; when all are arranged, vertr gently put in jelly enough to cover them ; when that is set, fill up your mould, and when wanted, turn it out the same as an v other jelly. Jelly {Ivory Dust).*—Boil one pound of ivory dustbin five pints of water till reduced to a quart, strain it, and add to it one quart more water, boil till reduced to a pint, then strain it; when strained, squeeze in some orange and lemon juice, and sweeten according to taste. Jelly Gravy to keep.— lake a leg of beef, and two shins, cut in pieces, a knuc- kle of veal; chop it all to pieces ; one or two old cocks or hens, skinned, and two calf’s feet; put all these into ten quarts of water, and boil them down to a strong jellv ; skim it well, add some salt, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. Jelly (Mosaic).-Boil half a pint of cream: when it boils, infuse the peel, either of an orange or a lemon, according as you wish to decorate the jelly with either. When the cream has imbibed the flavour of the fruit, sweeten it with a little sugar. Beat up with the cream the volks of four eggs, lay it on the fire to thicken, and then put in some isinglass that has been previously melted. Strain the whole through a hair sieve, and put it, well co- vered, on some ice, that it may get quite firm. Take the mould which you intend to use, brush it lightly all over with oil, and then cut the white cream jelly with a knife in the first place, and next with small tin cutters. Decorate the mould without putting it on ice, for the damp would prevent the decoration from stickingon. Decorate the bottom first, then the sides ; then only put the mould over ice. Next pour a little orange jelly lightly,not to injure the decora- tion,” and let it get thick. When the orange jelly is frozen, thrust the mould deeper into the ice, then put a little more jelly to the height of the lower decoration on the sides; let the preparation be made firm again ; mind the jelly is never to come higher than the flowerets, till the bottom has been first made firm ; then gradually ascend to the top. Cover and surround the mould with ice. W hen you wish to serve, dip a towel into some hot water, and rub the mould all round. Be careful thatnone of the jelly sticks to the sides before you touch the bottom of the mould. Then rub the bottom with the hot towel, and turn the jelly neatly into a dish. W ere not all these precautions attended to, the two co- lours would melt and mix together. 1 his jelly looks beautiful when it is well made. This jelly can only be well made in win- ter time ; for during the summer season it would melt, except made hard; then it would not be so good. But if you should be particularly desirous of making it during the summer season, you must work it in a very cold place. Jelly ( Printanniere).*— Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, as directed for each; and having prepared your fruits or flowers according to the recipes (see the various articles), mix them with the sugar when no more than lukewarm; strain the mix- ture through a silk sieve, add the isinglass, stir lightly with a silver spoon, and put it into a mould ; take about ten pounds ol ice, break it up, put it into a tub or pail, w which immerse the mould for three lours . then take out the mould, dip it in hot w -‘ter as quick as possible, and then turn the jelly into a dish for table.JEL JES 309 Jelly (Riband).—Boil four calf’s feet, without the great boues, in ten quarts of water, three ounces of hartshorn, three ounces of isinglass, a nutmeg quartered, and four blades of mace; boil till it is reduced to two quarts ; strain it through a flannel bag, and when it has stood ! twenty-four hours, scrape off all the fat very clean, slice the jelly, add the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, and boil the whole up, and strain it through a flannel i bag. Then pour it into small high glasses, : and run each colour as thick as a linger, j each colour being thoroughly cold before j another is poured on, which must be only I lukewarm, or they will mix together. Red I inay be made -with cochineal, green with j spinach, yellow with saffron, blue with j sjTup of violets, and white with thick ! cream : the plain jelly itself may be used I as a colour. Jelly (Rubante).* — Prepare nine yolks of eggs as directed for jelly of fro- mage bavarois, but without the orange j flower; when strained, add an ounce and half of clarified isinglass, and divide your preparation into four parts, in one of which put an infusion of chocolate; to the second, add an infusion of orange flowers ; to the third some spinach juice and bitter maca- roons crushed ; and put to the fourth some blancmange. Place your mould in ice, as much of each of these portions alternately as will occupy an inch in depth ; taking care that every layer is set before you pom- on another. Jelly (Russian).*—Clarify three quar- ters of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of isinglass, put them together into an earthen pan, which place on ice ; add to it the juice of two lemons, and four small glasses of kirschwasers ; then take a whisk and beat it up over the ice till it becomes as white as beaten egg; the moment it gets firm, put it into a mould, and finish the jelly in the usual way. Jelly (Savoury) to put over cold Pies.— Tt should be made either of a small bare knuckle, of leg, or shoulder, of veal, or a piece of scrag of mutton ; or, if the pie is made of fowl, or rabbits, the carcasses, j necks, or heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give 1 consistence by cowheel or shanks of mut- ! ton. Put the meat, with a slice of ham, or | bacon, a bundle of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion, or two, a small ! bit of lemon peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the sarao quantity of whole pepper, and three pints of water, into a stewpan that shuts very close. When it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer slowly till quite strong ; then strain it, and when cold, take off all the fat you possibly can with a spoon ; and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. If, when it is cold, it is not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which should be previously dipped in hot water, to px-event waste. Jelly (Savoury).—Take all the scum off from the cold liquor that either poultry or meat has been bi-aised in, or some veal stock, and make it warm; strain it through a sieve into a stewpan, and seasou it to the palate with salt, lemon pickle, Cayenne pepper, and tarragon or plain vinegar; add enough of dissolved isinglass to make it of a proper stiffness, whisk in plenty of whites of eggs, a small quantity of the yolks and shells, and just colour it; set it over the fire, and let it boil, then simmer it for a quarter of an hour, and run it through a jelly bag several times, till bright and fine. J elly ( Whipped).*—Make a jelly Prin- tanniere, and pour about a quarter of it into a mould, and ice it, as therein di- rected ; then take the mould, and place a basin in its stead, in which put the re- mainder of the jelly, and whip it with a whisk, as you would eggs, over the jelly, until the globules are no bigger than pins’ heads; pour it into the mould, and i-eplace it on the ice for three quarters of an hour, after which turn it out as usual. JESSAMINE (to candy).* — Boil a pound of clarified sugar to forte perle, and when about half cold throw in two hands- ful of jessamine flowers, and place them on hot ashes for two hours, that the flowers may dry well; then drain them on a sieve from the sugar, and have ready some more, sifted, in which put the jessamine, rubbing them well with your hands; place them again on a sieve, and set them on a stove till next day ; after which sift the flowers ; take three pounds of clarified sugar, boil it to souffle, have a proper mould ready, pour the sugar into it, and put the flowers on it, push them down lightly with a fork, that they may be completely covered with the sugar; place the mould in a moderate stove or oven for five days, then drain off the syrup ; lay a sheet of paper on the table, and turn the candy quickly out of the mould.KAV JUM 310 JOHN DOREY (Boiled).—Set it over the fire in cold spring water; treat it ex- actly the same as turbot, and serve it with lobster sauce in a boat. John Dorey a la Creme.—Rub your fish over with lemon, cover it with paper, and put it into a kettle, with half milk and half water, a bit of butter, salt, and a le- mon squeezed in; set it on the fire, and let it simmer gently till done ; take it up, and drain it from the liquor, lay it on a dish, and pour a good cream sauce all over it. It will be much improved by mushrooms. JONQUILS (Candy of)*—These flow- ers are candied precisely in the same way as the jessamine. Jonquils (Whole).*—Take some double jonquils, cut the stalks about a quarter of an inch from the flowers; give them one boil in some sugar (liquid); then remove them from the fire, and let them stand a quarter of an hour ; drain them well, and put them into some sifted sugar, working them about, and taking care that all the leaves may imbibe an equal quantity of sugar, and the form of the flower pre- served, which may be done by shaking each, and blowing away the superfluous sugar ; lay white paper on a sieve, and arrange the flowers on it one by one, dry them in a stove; keep them in boxes in a dry place. These flowers may also be candied as above ; in which case, the moulds should Lave a sort of grating at the top for the flowers: place a weight on to keep them immersed in the sugar. JULIENNE.*—This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel and chervil; the roots are cut in thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are halved and then sliced; the lettuce and sorrel chopped small; toss up the roots in a little butter, when they are done, add the lettuces, &c., moisten them ■with broth, and boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or more, if necessary; pre- pare some bread in the usual wray, and pour the julienne over it. JUMBLES.—Mix one pound of fine flour with one pound of fine powder sugar, make them into a light paste with whites of eggs well beaten; add half a pint of cream, half a pound of fresh butter, melted, and a pound of blanched almonds, pounded; knead them all together, thoroughly, with a little rose-water, and cutout the jumbles into whatever forms you think proper; and either bake them in a gentle oven, or fry them in fresh butter serve them in a dish, melt fresh butter with a spoonful of mountain, and strew fine sugar over the dish. JUNIPER BERRIES (Ices of).—In- fuse some juniper berries in warm water, or take about a handful of the berries, and boil them a moment with a pint of water, , , half a pound of sugar, and a bit of cinna- i mon, and sift them through a sieve with ! expression, and finish the same as all others. Juniper (Ratafia of). — Infuse two ounces of ripe juniper berries in two pints of brandy, addingbalf an ounce ofcinnamon, , J three cloves, a little aniseed and coriander seed ; add half a pound of sugar to each i; pint of brandy, having previously boiled it in a very little water. Let the whole in- fuse in a jar for six weeks, then strain, and bottle it. Juniper (Ratafa of).*'—Take three ’ ounces of juniper berries, anise, coriander, cinnamon, and cloves, of each eighteen i grains ; bruise all these ingredients, and ! infuse them for a month in three pints of brandy ; then strain it, add three quar- • ters of a pound of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, stir them together. . pass the whole through a jelly-bag, and .: bottle it; keep it well corked. Juniper (Ratafaof).—Take three pints of ratafia ; put a quart of brandy into a jar, with a handful of juniper brries, and one l pound and a half of sugar, boiled in a quart :; of water, and well skimmed ; stop the jar up close, and set it for about five weeks in a warm place ; then strain it through a filtering cloth, and, when it is quite clear, . put it into bottles, taking care to cork them I > well. The ratafia will be all the better for : keeping. JUNKET (Devonshire).—Warm some milk, and put it into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, .] sugar, and cinnamon, on the top, without breaking the curd. K KA VIA.*—Take the hard roes of se- veral sturgeon, and lay them in a tub of water; take away all the fibres as you . would from a calf’s brains, then, with a whisk, beat the roes in the water, shaking oft'from the whisk whatever fibres may be adhering to it; then lay the roes on sieves for a short time ; after which put t cm into fresh water again ; and continue whip them, and change the water, unti i roses are perfectly cleansed and free lion*KET 311 KID fibre; lay them on seives to drain, season them well with salt and pepper; wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up like a ball, and let them drain thus till the next day, when serve them with fried bread, and shalots chopped small. If they are to be kept for some time, put more salt to them. KERNELS (Creme of).*—Take half a pound of apricot kernels, cut them into i small pieces, and infuse them in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water j for a week ; then distil it; dissolve three ; pounds of sugar in a pint of orange flower ( water, and three- quarts of water; add ) this to the distilled Liqueur; filter in the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. Kernel Water (Phalsbourg) .*—lake a j pound of a apricot, half a pound of peach, and cherry kernels, put them to soak in warm river water; the next day, peel and put them to infuse in three quarts of brandy for nine days; then distil them in an alembic in the bain-marie. Dissolve four pounds of crushed sugar, in three quarts of filtered water, add half a pound of orange flower water, mix this with the brandy, strain it through a jelly bag and bottle it. Kernels (Ratafia of) *—Take a pound of apricot kernels, or, if you choose, you need only use almonds. Let them infuse eight days in two bottles of brandy and one bottle of water, with a pound of sugar, a handful of coriander seed, and a small quantity of cinnamon ; then strain through a filtering bag, and when quite clear, bottle it off. KETCHUP ( English).—Peel ten cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put them into a quart of white wine vinegar; take a quart of white port, put it on the fire, and when it boils, put in twelve or fourteen ancho- vies, washed and cut in pieces ; let them simmer in the wine till they are dissolved; when cold, put them to the vinegar; then take half a pint of white wine, and put into it some mace, some ginger sliced, a few cloves, a spoonful of whole pepper bruised; let them boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a whole nutmeg, and some lemon peel, with two or three spoons- ful of horseradish ; add it to the rest, stop it close, and stir it once or twice a day. It will soon be fit for use. Keep it close stopped up. Ketchup (While). — Pake a quart of white wine, a pint of elder vinegar, and one quart of water ; half a pound of an- chovies, with their liquor, half a pound of scraped horseradish an ounce of shalots bruised, an ounce of white pepper bruised, an ounce of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs cut in quarters ; boil all together till half is consumed, then strain it off, and when cold, hottle it for use. It is proper for any white sauce, or to put into melted butter. KID.—Kid is good eating when it is but three or fou months old, its flesh is then delicate and tender, but it is not used after it has done sucking. To be good, it ought to be fat and white. It is dressed in the same manner as lamb or fawn. Kid (to Roast).—Take the head of the kid and prick it backwards, over the shoulders, and tie it down; then lard it with bacon, and draw it with lemon peel and thyme; then make a farce of grated bread, flour, some forcemeat, minced small, beef suet, and sweet herbs, season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, add some cream, and the yolks of four eggs; put this farce into the caul of the kid, and put it into the inside, sew it up close, roast it, and serve with venison sauce. KIDNEYS. — Cut them through the long way, score them, and sprinkle them, over with a little pepper and salt; in order to broil all over alike, and to keep them from curling on the gridiron, run a wire skewer right through them. They must be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to turn them frequently till they are done; they will take about ten or twelve minutes broiling, provided they are done over a brisk fire ; or, if you choose, you may fry them in butter, and make gravy for them ; they will take five mi- nutes longer frying than broiling. Garnish with fried parsley: you may improve them, if you think proper, by chopping a few parsley leaves very fine ; mix them with a bit of fresh butter, and a little pep- per and salt, and then put some of this mixture over each kidney. Kidney Dumplings.*—Make your dump- lings in the usual way, put in each a mut- ton kidney, well washed and cut in pieces, and seasoned with pepper and salt; boil them tied in a cloth, and serve them very hot. Kidney Omelet.*—Take a fine kidney from a cold roasted loin of veal, mine® and soak it well in some cream ; break seven or eight eggs on it, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; beat the whole with a whisk, and fry your omelet, talcing care to keep it pretty thick. Kidney Pasty.—Roast a loin of veal312 KIS LAM when it is almost done, take the kidney, the fat, and some of the meat, and mince it small, with the marrow of half a dozen real marrow bones, cold ; season with mar- joram, thyme, and winter savory, cut small or pounded ; add a quarter of a pint of rose water, the yolks of six eggs, a little nutmeg sliced, half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of currants; mix all well together; and make them up in small pasties of puff paste, and fry them in butter. Kidney Pudding.*—Take a nice beef kidney, split it and soak it, then season it with pepper and salt; make a paste, put in the kidney, cover with the paste, and pinch round the edge; it will take some time boiling. KIRSCHEN TEasser*—The best cher- ries for this purpose are the morella, which should be taken when quite ripe : take off the stalks, and put the fruit into a tub. Have some new wood ashes, and wet them so as to make a land of mortar of them, and extend it over the cherries; these ashes in drying form a complete hard crust, and thus prevents any evaporation, and assists the fermentation. Leave the fruit thus for six weeks, at the end of which re- move the ashes, and take out the pulp and juice of the cherries immediately under it, and put them into the eucurbite (but not enough to fill it), and distil them. The fire, during the operation, should be man- aged with great care, and increased gradu- ally till the produce of your distillation flows in a small stream, and cease the instant the phlegm begins to appear ; then throw away the dregs from the eucurbite, and put more cherries in, and distil as before. Kihsciien Wusser.— Bruise the kernels of some cherries, and throw them, with their shells, into brandy ; let them infuse till the season when you can add some apricot kernels, without the shells, then leaving them to infuse for two months lon- ger ; you must filter off the infusion, then distil it, by which means it will become as clear as the real Kirschen-wasser of the Black Forest. KmsciiEN Wasser Creme*—Take three quarts of old kirschen-wasser, rectify it, by which you will obtain two quarts of liqueur, to which add four ounces of double orange-flower water ; dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in three pints of dis- tilled river water, over the fire; when cold, mix it with the kirschen-wasser, filter and bottle it. KISSES.*—rut the whites of eight eggs, and two spoonsful of orange-flower water, into a china basin, and whisk till they become a firm froth, then add half a pound of sifted sugar, stir it in with great care by means of a spatula : that done, lay small pieces of this mixture on white paper ; make each drop about the size of a ratafia, rather conical than flat; place the paper which contains them on a piece of wood about an inch thick, and put them in a very hot oven : watch them, and as soon as you perceive they begin to look yellow- I ish, take them out, and detach them from ! the paper with a knife as cautiously as possible, for they are very tender. Take ] a small spoon, and with the end of it re- move the moist part, which is at the hot- I tom, so as to make them a little hollow, | and as you do them, lay each on the paper, I the hollow side upwards ; put them on the wood into the oven again for a few minutes to dry; when done, lay them in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm place. If they are for table, fill the hollow of each I with a little whipped cream or raspberry jam; put them together by couples, the cream or jam inside; place them in a dish, and serve them as soon as possible. L. Lamb (to choose).— The vein in the neck of a fore quarter of lamb ought to be of a fine blue, it is then fresh ; if it is of a green or yellow cast, it is stale; if in the hind quarter, there is a faint disagreeable smell under the kidney, or if the knuckle is limp, it is not good ; if the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh ; grass lamb is in season in April or May, and continues good till August. House lamb may be had in great towns generally all the year round, but is in its highest perfection in December and January. Fore-quarter includes the shoulder, neck, and breast. Hind-quarter is the leg and loin. The Head: the pluck is generally sold with the head, which contains the liver, lights, heart, nut, and melt. The Fry contains the sweetbreads, lamb- stones, and skirts, with some of the liver. Lamb baked with Rice. — Half roast either a neck or loin of lamb, then cut it into steaks ; boil half a pound of rice m water for ten minutes, and put to it a quart of good gravy, with some nutmeg, and two or three blades of mace ; stew it over a slow fire or stove till the rice e gins to thicken ; then take it oft, stir m a pound of butter, and when quite meltc , JLAM LAM 313 add the yolks of six eggs finely beaten; butter a dish all over, put a little pepper and salt to the steaks, dip them in melted butter, and lay them in the buttered dish ; pour upon them the gravy which comes from them, and then the rice ; pour over the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, send it to the oven, rather more than half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. Lamb (Blanquette of).*—Roast a leg of lamb, and when cold take off all the skin and nerves, and cut it into pieces, all the same size and thickness, cut off the angles so as to make them nearly round, beat them with the handle of a knife, and put them into a saucepan, with some fried mushrooms, four ladiesful of veloute tra- j •vaille, and a little pepper; set the sauce- pan on the fire for a few minutes, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs ; make it quite hot, and serve the blanquette with sippets. Lamb’s Brains.*— Are generally rec- koned more delicate than those of the sheep: they are mostly prepared in the same manner as calf’s brains. Lamb’s Brains en Aluyomiaise.*— Take eight lamb’s brains, and having washed and prepared them for dressing, in the same way as calf’s brains, blanch, and then j drain them in a cloth ; lay them on a dish, ■ with tongue a Vecarlate, cut like cocks’ combs, between each brain; place hard eggs, gherkins, a pretty firm mayonnaise, and a glass of ravigote in the centre, and ! garnish your dish with pieces of jelly. Lamb (Breast of) with Cucumbers.—Cut the chine bone off from the breast, and l put it to stew with a pint of gravy ; when • the bones would draw out, neatly trim it, i brush it over with beaten egg, and strew - it all over with sweet herbs finely chop- 1 ped, pepper, salt, and bread crumbs, then put it on the gridiron to grill; and then i serve it in a dish on nicely stewed cucum- bers. Lamb (Breast of) to be eaten cold.— ■ Bone a breast of lamb, then have a good ) forcemeat made of fat livers, truffles, &c. ! the same as for raised pies, and an ome- lette made of the white of eggs, and of the i yolks, coloured with spinach juice; when ' cold cut them in long slips, first lay some : forcemeat, then the slips of omelettes, with a few truffles laid between, and like- ' wise some fat livers; then spread all over with the forcemeat, season with pepper, salt, and pounded spices, roll it in a nap- kin, and put it to stew very gently for two hours ; when done, let it stand in the liquor till cold, then take it out, and let it stand for two days before you cut it; trim it well, layiton the dish, and garnish it with aspic jelly, minced and scattered round it. Lamb (Breast of) with Pease.—Braise a breast of lamb, and then having taken out the small bones, flatten it: when cold cut it into small pieces, and put them into the braise to heat, drain and glaze them, and serve with pease (prepared as follows) poured over them : put some young pease into water, with a little fresh butter ; drain and put them into a saucepan, with a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, stew them gently over a slow fire ; reduce them with two spoonsful of espag- iwle, and a little sugar. If you wish this dish white, use sauce tournee for the pease, instead of espagnole. Lamb (Breast of) rolled in a Ragout.— Take a breast of lamb that is cut rather broad, take out all the hones, spread it well with veal forcemeat, and roll it up, tying it well up with packthread, and let it stew gently in some good braise ; when well stewed take it out, put it in a mode- rate oven, and glaze it two or three times ; then have a good ragout ready, pour it into a dish, and lay the lamb upon it. Lamb Chops en Couronne.—Take a loin of lamb, cut into chops, egg them with yolk of egg on both sides, strew them over with bread crumbs, with mace, cloves, pepper, and salt, mixed; fry them of a light brown, and place them on a dish in form of a crown ; make a sauce of sweet herbs and parsley, chopped fine, and stewed in a little thick gravy. Pour this sauce into the middle of the dish. Serve garnished with fried parsley. Lamb (Cromesquis of).—Take the same preparation as the croquettes; roll into small balls; wrap each in a thin slice of ready dressed calf s udder; dip them in batter, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Lamb (Croquettes oj').*—Take a cold roasted leg (or any other part) of lamb, cut oft’ the meat, clear away all the skin and sinews, and mince it; mince also a little lamb fat or calf’s udder, and some mushrooms (ready dressed) ; mix all these together, season them with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put half a dozen ladiesful of veloute, into a saucepan ; reduce it to rather less than half, and add the yolks of three eggs, stirring constantly ; when the sauce is thickened, put in an ounce of butter, and stir it till it is dissolved. Strain this sauce over the meat, stirring as before, then let it stand ; when cold, stir it once more, and then with a desert-spoon L314 LAM LAM lay it on a table in little heaps ; when all the meat is thus disposed, form them into whatever shape you please (either round, oval, pear-shaped, &c.); roll them in bread crumbs; beat up three yolks and two whole eggs, with a little salt and pep- per ; dip the croquettes in this, and bread them a second time ; take care that they are well covered; fiy them in a hot pan : when done, chain and place them in a pyramid on your dish, with fried parsley over them. Make a sauce as follows : cut some mushrooms into dice, and put them into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter; give them a few turns over the fire, and then add a few scallions shred small; when they have had a turn or two, put in a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, and a bay-leaf; reduce the sauce, and then take out the bay leaf, and put in the yolks of four eggs, and another ounce of butter; stir the whole till of the proper consistence, serve with the croquettes. A little shred parsley may be added if you like. Lamb Cutlets—For various ways, be- sides the following. (See Mutton Cutlets) as they may be dressed alike. Lamb Cutlets aux Epinards.—Saute and glaze them, and serve them upon spinach a, la Creme. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic.*—Take sixteen lamb cutlets, and lard them with moderate sized lardons of calf’s udder, truffles, and tongue a Vicariate ; line a saucepan with slices of bacon, lay your cutlets on them, cover them with bacon, moisten with shimmings of consomme, add a carrot, two onions stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; braise them, and when done, put them between two dishes, and let them cool: then trim them so that the whole of the lardons may be seen; have ready an aspic mould, in which is some of the jelly, set; lay the cutlets and a piece of tongue a Vicariate alternately on it, en couronne, put two or three spoonsful of jelly on it carefully, not to displace the cutlets ; when you find the jelly is set, fill the mould; set it on ice; turn the aspic out only the minute before it goes to table, pour into the well or hollow part a cold blanquette of lamb, with some cold truffles sliced. Lamb Cutlets en Chemises.*—Having cut and trimmed your cutlets, cover them with & farce composed of fat livers, breasts of a fowl or game, streaked bacon, all chopped very small, and mixed with the crumb of bread soaked in cream; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Take some thin slices of bacon; spread the farce on them, lay a cutlet on each slice, roll it up, and tie it; bread these carefully, and roast them before a moderate fire, basting them with their own fat. Lamb’s Cutlets a la Constance *—Cut and . trim eighteen cutlets, season them with pepper only, put them into a pan, with a piece of glaze about the size of an egg, a ladleful of espagnole, two ladiesful of con- • sommi; half an hour before they are sent : to table, set the cutlets over a brisk fire, . move them aboutto prevent their sticking; . when the liquor is reduced to a jelly, take out the cutlets, and lay them on a dish en i couronne, taking care they are covered with i a jelly. Make a ragout of livers, cocks’- ■ combs, and kidneys, put them into some bichamelle, with some mushrooms ; fry the whole lightly, and pour them into the centre of the gouronne of cutlets, and serve instantly. Lamb Cutlets Fricasseed.—Take a leg of lamb, and cut it into thin cutlets, across • the grain, and put them into a stewpan. . Make a sufficient quantity of good stock : with the bones, shank, &c. to cover the i cutlets; put it into the stewpan, and cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some clove and mace tied in a muslin bag, and let them stew gently for ten minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim off the fat, and take out the sweet herbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, sea- son it with salt, and a little cayenne pepper; add a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels; some forcemeat balls, the yolks ol three eggs, beat up in a half-pint of cream, and some grated nutmeg; keep stirring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, and lay them on a dish. Pour the sauce over them; garnish with beet-root and lemon. Lamb’s Fan's Stuffed*—Take a dozen lamb’s ears, soak, and scald them ; when cold, dry, singe, and cook them in a blanc for an hour and a half, drain and fill them with a farce cuite, put the ears into melted butter," then roll them in bread-crumbs; break four eggs into the butter, with salt and pepper, beat all up together, dip the ears into this, then roll them again in bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour ; take care your pan is not too hot. Dram the ears well, and serve them on fried parsley. Lamb’s Ears with Sorrel.—lake about a dozen of lamb’s ears (this quantity will make a small dish), and braise them tiU tender. Take a large haudfu ot sorrel,LAM 315 LAM chop it a little, and stew it in a spoonful of stock, with a small hit of butter. Pour in a small ladle of cullis, some nutmeg grated, and a little pepper and salt; stew it a minute, twist up the ears nicely, and serve. Lamb (Epigramme of).*—Take the fore- quarter of a lamb, take off the shoulder, and cut the neck so that the cutlets are not injured ; dress it (the neck) in the same manner as shoulder of lamb with cucumbers (see that article), and when done, press it between two dishes to make it smooth; let it cool, and then cut it into pieces rather larger than the cutlets; make them of the same size and shape, i (oval,) rub them all over with a sauce a Vatelet, dip them in melted butter; i bread, and lay them on a dish; cut, and ] trim the cutlets, season them with salt and : pepper, and put them in a pan with I melted butter over them: take the shoulder ; (which has been roasted), cut off all the i meat, mince, and make it into a blanquette ; | keep it hot in the bain-marie. Just before I dinner time, broil the pieces of the neck, I fry and glaze the cutlets, lay them al- ternately on a dish, en couronne, in the j centre of which pour the blanquette, and fierve the whole immediately. Lamb’s Feet en Cartouches*—Prepare some sweet herbs en papillotes, and having cooked the feet in a blanc, put them to the herbs whilst they are hot, give them two or three boils; squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and leave them to cool. Cut some pieces of paper, each large enough to hold one of the feet; ruh all over the in- i side, lay the feet on pieces of oiled paper, ! with the herbs put round and in the hollow j parts, wrap each in a thin piece of bacon, over which fold the paper so as to enclose I them completely; broil them thus over a ! slow but clear fire for half an hour. Serve | them either dry or with some clear gravy. Lamb’s Feet en Gratin.*—Take a dozen I of lamb’s feet, and set them to stew a la I braise, with eighteen or twenty small j onions; whilst they are stewing, make a j gratin, with some bread-crumbs, a little I scraped cheese, a bit of butter, and the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole toge- ther, and spread it over the bottom of your dish, setting it upon a stove, or on a chafing j dish over a slow fire, till it adheres to the bottom: then put the lamb’s feet, and the small onions intermixed, upon the gratin; let the whole simmer a little over the fire; drain off the fat, and serve a good sauce over. Lamb’s Feet en Marinade*—The feet toeing blanched as usual, soak them in a marinade, or (in case you have none) in half a glass of vinegar, with salt and pepper. After they have lain a sufficient time, drain, dip them in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour; then lay them on a cloth to drain. Serve with fried parsley over them. Lamb’s Feet Stuffed*—Prepare your feet in the usual manner, but before you blanch them, fill them with a fowl quenelle, with the addition of a little grated nutmeg, and sweet herbs shred small; sew this farce in, and then put the feet into boiling water for five minutes; let them cool, dry and singe them. Make a thick blanc, put the feet in it, and simmer them for about two hours, then drain, trim, and serve them with a green sauce Hollandoise. Lam’s Fry.—Fry it of a nice colour, and serve with a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Lamb (Grass) Steahs.—Cut a loin of lamb into steaks, season them with pepper and salt, and fry them; when done, put them into a dish, pour out the butter, shake a little flour into the pan, put a little beef stock, a little catsup, and walnut pickle. Boil this up, stirring it all the time. Put in the steaks, and give them a shake round; serve them to table, gar- nished with crisped parsley. Lamb Flashed a I’Anglaise*—Put a slice of butter into a stewpan, with a few mush- rooms cut in pieces, and a bunch of herbs; shake them over the fire, with a little flour, moistening with stock, then let the mush- rooms stew till the sauce is nearly con- sumed ; next put in some small slices of cold roast lamb, with the yolks of three eggs beat up in milk. Thicken the whole over the fire, taking care that it does not boil; season to your taste, and, before serving, add a sprinkling of vinegar. Lamb’s Head.*—Bone a head as far as the eye, take out the under jaw, soak, and then scald it; when cold, dry and singe it; tie it up in slices of bacon, and cook it in a blanc. In about two hours take it out, drain, and untie it. Serve it quite plain, or with a ragout made with the liver, sweetbread, feet, mushrooms, all done in a blanc. Lamb’s Head (to Dress).—Boil a head and pluck tender, taking care not to do the liver too much ; take out the head, and cut it in all directions with a knife. Then grate some nutmeg over it, and lay it on a dish, before a good fire. Take some bread crumbs and some sweet herbs rubbed, a little lemon peel, finely chopped, and aLAM 316 LAM very small quantity of pepper and salt. Strew these over the head, and baste it with a little butter; then throw on a little flour, and just as it is done, baste and dredge it. Take half the liver, tbe lights, the heart and tongue, and chop them very small, with six or eight spoonsful of gravy. First shake some flour over the meat, and stir it together; then put into the gravy, a large piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, and the gravy that runs from the head into the dish. Simmer them all together a few minutes, and add half a spoonful of vinegar. Put it into your dish, and place the head in the middle of the mincemeat. Have ready the other half of the liver cut thin, with some slices of broiled bacon, and lay them round the head. Garnish with lemon. Lamb’s Head, Condi Fashion.—Stew it in a white braise, and serve it with a saucb made of verjuice, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, chopped pars- ley, scalded, and a little nutmeg. Lamb’s Head Minced.—Split the bead in half, and blanch it with the liver, lights, and heart; then chop the heart, &c. and add to them a little parsley, chopped very fine, a small quantity of shredded lemon peel, and some cullis ; stew it gently till done, and season it. Wash the bead over, and bake it gently till very tender. When it is to be served up, colour it with a sala- mander. Clean the brains in warm water, wipe them dry, dip them in yolks of egg and bread crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard. Put the mince under the head, and the fried brains round it, with rashers of bacon. Lamb’s Head (Stewed).—Take out the brains, and make a farce of them ; boil it, and when cold cut it into pieces ; then mince some lamb and beef suet together with the brains ; add some grated bread, season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs minced small, add four or five raw eggs. Fill the lamb’s head with these ; then put it in a stewpan, and let it stew with some good stock; make the remainder of the mincemeat into balls, and serve with the stewed head. Lamb’s Head Stuffed.*—Soak the head well in boiling water, and then put it on the fire till half done ; take out all the bones, and the brains, make a farce with streaked bacon, fat livers, the tongue, brains, and morels, all minced very small, and united with veal; put this farce, into the head, bread it all over, and put it into the oven ; when it is of a nice colour, take it out, and serve it quite hot, with veal gravy. Lamb (House) Hind Quarter of, to Force. —Cut off the shank, and with the knife, raise the thick part of the meat from the bone ; make a forcemeat with some suet, a few scalded oysters cut small, some grated bread, a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, mixed up with the yolks of two eggs; put this forcemeat under the part where the meat has been raised up, and under the kidney ; let it be half roasted, then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of mutton gravy: cover it, and let it stew very gently ; when it is sufficiently done, take it up and keep it hot; skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy ; add to it a glass of Madeira, one spoonful of walnut ketchup, half a lemon, a little Cayenne, half a pint of stewed oysters, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the lamb. Lamb (House) Steahs Brown.—Dip them into egg, then season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and chopped parsley; fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy, with butter and flour; add a little red wine, some ketchup, and some oysters ; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. You may add, if you please, palates stewed, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs. Lamb (House) Steaks II kite.—Let them stew in milk and water till they are quite tender, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of lemon peel, a little salt, some white pepper, and some mace ; have ready some veal gravy, some mushroom powder, salt, a little cream mixed up with a small quantity of flour; shake the steaks round in this sauce, and just before they are taken up, put in a few pickled mushrooms. Lamb, (Leg of) Boiled.—It should be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, dip them in egg, strew them over with bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown, serve them round the dish, and garnish with dried or fried parsley; serve with spinach to eat with it. Lamb (Leg off) to Force.—Take a leg of lamb, and with a sharp knife cutout all the meat, but leave the skin whole, and the fat upon it. Make the meat you cut out into the following forcemeat: 1 o two pounds of meat, put two pounds of beef suet, finely chopped ; take away all the skin and suet from the meat, and mix it with four spoonsful of grated bread, eight or ten317 LAM LAM cloves, five or six large blades of mace, dried aud finely beaten, half a large nutmeg grated, a little pepper and salt, some lemon peel cut fine, a very little thyme, some parsley, and four eggs; mix all these to- gether, aud put it into the skin ; make it as near as you can into the same shape it was before; sew it up, roast it, basting it well with butter. Cut the loin into steaks, and nicely fry them. Lay the leg on the dish, and the steaks cut from the loin, round it, with stewed cauliflowers all round, upon the steaks. Pour a pint of good gravy into tlie dish, and then serve. Lamb (Leg of) en Saucissons.—Bone a leg of lamb, and take about half the meat; ; simmer it in butter a minute or two ; then ■■ mince it with a calf’s udder, grated bacon, : bread soaked in cream, parsley, scallions, ' truffles, season it with salt and spices; i put this into the remainder of the leg, draw ! the skin over, roll it up into the form of a sausage ; wrap it in a cloth, tie it tight, and i boil it in stock, with half a pint of white ' wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few carrots i and onions sliced. When done, serve it ' with any sauce you please. Lamb (Leg of) Stewed with Peas.—Take a leg of house lamb, and stew it in some stock or beef braise. When nicely done, take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it three or four times ; then have some good young peas, well stewed, with some good btchamelle sauce ; pour them on the | dish, and lay the leg on the top, and cut the ( loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire 1 with some good butter and some strong I gravy ; when nearly done, shake them well i in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the j peas, and serve them hot to table. Lamb’s Livers.* — Have two lambs’ plucks, cut the lights into dice, and the ; liver into thin slices ; fry them lightly over a small fire in butter; they should be scarcely more than browned; drain away half the butter; add a little parsley andi few mushrooms, shred small; season them with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and ; serve them very hot. Lamb (Loin of) a la Perigord.—Neatly trim a loin of lamb ; warm it over the fire in a stewpan, with a little oil, mixed with : some green onions and mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper; then change the lamb into another stewpan, well lined with slices of veal, seasoned, and seven or eight truffles sliced, covered with thin rashers of bacon, and half a lemon, cut in pieces; let the whole stew over a slow fire, moistening with stock; and when done, skim the fat from tho sauce, pass it through a sieve, place the loin on a dish with the truffles, and pour the sauce over. Lamb ( Pascaline of ).* — Scald four lambs’ heads, bone the jaws, and cut off the ends of the noses. Scald also the feet, singe them, and then cook them altogether in a blanc; when done, drain them, lay the heads in a dish ; fry your feet lightly in a little butter, with the yolks of four eggs, a little parsley, and a few mushrooms. Have ready a lamb’s pluck, dressed as di- rected (see Lambs’ Livers) ; and having laid the feet, with their sauce, in the dish with the heads, place the rest round them and serve them. Lamb Pasty.—Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces ; lay beef suet at the bottom of tire pasty ; season the lamb with pepper, salt, thyme chopped, nutmeg, cloves, and mace ; lay it upon the suet, making a high border about it; then turn over your sheet of paste, close it up, and bake it; when it is baked, put in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten, and some good gravy. Lamb Pie, (the German Way).-—Cut a quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard them with small lardons of bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a bay leaf: add fat bacon pounded, small onions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs ; put these into the pie, and let it bake for three hours; when baked, cut it open, skim off all the fat, pour in a ragout of oysters, and serve hot. Lamb Pie (a Savoury one).—Cut the lamb into pieces, and season it with pep- per, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, fin ly beaten. Make a good puff paste crust, put the meat into it, with a few lambs’ stones and sweetbreads, seasoned the same as the meat. Then put in some oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, about two inches long, first boiled green. Put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a quick oven. In the mean time, take a pint of gravy, the oyster liquor, a gill of red wine and a little grated nutmeg. Mix all to- gether with the yolks of two or three eggs finely beaten, and keep stirring it the same way all the time. When it boils, pour it into the pie, put on the lid again, and serve it to table. Lamb Pie (Sweet).—Cut your lamb into pieces, and season with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all well beaten : make a good puff paste crust, line a dish with it, then lay in your meat; strew on it some318 LAM LAM stoned raisins and currants, nicely washed, and some sugar; then lay on some force- meat balls made sweet, and, in the sum- mer, some artichoke bottoms boiled, and in the winter scalded grapes; add boiled Spanish potatoes, cut in pieces, candied citron, candied orange and lemon peel, a few blades of mace ; put butter on the top, close your pie, and bake it. Have ready against it comes out of the oven, a caudle made thus: take a pint of white wine, and mix in the yolks of three eggs ; stir it well together over the fire one way, till it is thick; then take it off, stir in a sufficient quantity of sugar, to sweeten it, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon; pour it hot into the pie ; close it up again. Send it hot to table. Lamb (Quarter of) en Crepine. — Cut three onions into dice, and fry them in lard ; when nearly done, add a few sha- lots and parsley, shred small, basil, salt, spice, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, and half a pint of lamb’s blood ; simmer these over the fire till pretty thick : have ready a quarter of lamb, boned, taking care not to injure the skin ; put the above farce in the place of the bone, roll it up in a caul, and roast it, basting with butter and bread crumbs; pass a salamander over, to colour it; serve it with a rich sauce. Lamb (Quarter of) with Herbs.—Roll a bit of butter in flour, and boil it a moment with a few bread crumbs, chopped par- sley, shalots, green thyme, salt, and pep- per, a glass of white wine, and stock in proportion; the lamb being roasted, take up the shoulder, and pour this sauce between, in the same manner as you generally do Seville orange, and pepper and salt. Lamb (Quarter of) Roasted and Larded. ■—Take a fore quarter of lamb, lard the upper side of the joint with lean bacon, and sprinkle the other side thick with bread crumbs ; then cover with paper to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. When nearly done, take it from the fire, and cover the part that has not been larded, a second time, with bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, and parsley chopped very fine ; then put the lamb again before a bright fire to brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. Lamb (Ragout of).—Cut the knuckle bone off a fore quarter of lamb, lard it with little thin pieces of bacon; flour it, and then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of good stock or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three cloves, and a little whole pepper. Cover it close, and let it stew pretty fast for half an hour. I Pour off all the liquor, strain it; keep the lamb hot in the pot till the sauce is ready. Take half a pint of oysters, flour them, fry i them brown, drain off clear all the fat that they were fried in, and skim off all the fat from the gravy. Then pour it to the oysters, put in an anchovy, and two spoons- ful of either red or white wine. Boil all together till it is reduced to just sufficient ' for sauce ; add some fresh mushrooms, and : some pickled, and the juice of half a lemon. . or a spoonful of pickle. Lay the lamb in the dish, pour the sauce over it, and gar- ■ i nish with lemon. Lamb (to Roast or Boil).—A quarter of f an hour is generally allowed to each pound ! I of meat; a leg of lamb of five pounds will therefore take an hour and a quar- i ter to roast or boil, the other joints in the 'same proportion; serve either with | salad, pickles, brocoli, cauliflowers, French , beans, peas, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw or stewed. Lamb Sauce.—Roll a piece of butter in bread crumbs, shred parsley and shalots, i and boil it in a little stock and white wine, | (equal quantities), a few minutes are suffi- ! cient; squeeze in a little lemon or orange juice. Lamb (Shoulders of) and Cucumbers.*— Bone the shoulders to the knuckle, lard the inner part with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, and spices ; tie them up in rather a long form, and braise them the same as a la Pollonnoise; drain them when done, untie and glaze them ; prepare some cu- cumbers a la creme, on which lay the lamb, and serve. Endive, tomata sauce, or any other sauce you may choose, is equally good with the lamb. Lamb (Slices of) a la Dauphine.—Bone a shoulder of lamb to the knuckle. Make a farce with truffles or mushrooms, fat livers, parsley, shalots (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; roll this into the shoulder, and braise it with a little stock, a few slices of bacon, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Serve it on spinach. Lamb (Slices of) Fried.—Cut some cold lamb into slices, season and fry them ; when done, put them in a dish, and pour over them melted butter ; then put a little flour into a saucepan, with some beef stock, and a little walnut pickle ; let this bod, and keep stirring Serve the slices o lamb in this sauce, and garnish with fried parsley.319 LAM LAM Lamb Steaks (Fried).—Fry them of the nicest brown; when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crisped parsley. Or you may season them and broil them in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, according to taste. Lamb’s Stones, Fricassee of (Brown).—• Skin them, dip them in yolk of egg or flour, fry them ; thicken some gravy with flour, mushroom powder, salt, grated nut- meg, white pepper, grated lemon peel; boil this up put in the lamb’s stones, heat i them through ; add forcemeat balls fried, and pickled mushrooms, or lemon juice. Lame’s Stones, Fricassee of (White).— Skin them, and stew them in some veal gravy; when they are nearly done, add to them a little cream, some stewed force- meat balls, morels, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; just before they are taken up, add a few pickled mushrooms. Lamb’s Stones and Sweetbreads Fricasseed —Have ready some lamb’s stones, blanched parboiled, and sliced. Then take two or three sweetbreads, flour them, and if very thick, cut them in two. Fry alto- gether with a few oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off, and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus tops, about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pep- per, salt, a couple of shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer for ten minutes; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a good thickness, without boiling. Garnish with lemon. Lamb Sweetbreads*—These parts of lamb are generally dressed the same as veal sweetbreads : the following, however, is rather belonging to those of lamb : but- ter a saucepan, put in the sweetbreads, and two spoonsful of broth ; cover them with a buttered paper ; put fire above and below ; stew them thus for half an hour, then serve them with a purde of fowls, or endive, or any other sauce you think proper. Lamb s Sweetbreads.—Planch your sweet- breads, and put them a little time into cold water. Then put them into a stew- : pan, with a ladleful of stock, some pepper, ! salt, a small bunch of young onions, and a 1 blade of mace. Stir in a bit of butter, ! with some flour, and stew half an hour. ! Have ready two or three eggs beaten in I cream, with a little minced parsley and grated nutmeg. Put in some boiled as- paragus tops, and add them to the other tilings. It must not boil after the cream is put in; but make it hot, and stir it well all the time. Pe very careful that it does not curdle. Add some lemon or orange juice, then serve. You may, if you choose, add young pease or French beans, boiled of a beautiful colour. Lamb Sweetbreads (Hot Pie of).*—Take eight lamb sweetbreads, soak out all the blood, and cut them into small thin pieces; trim them all to the same size and shape. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four of truffles, and one shalot, all minced small, salt, nutmeg and spice ; put the sweetbreads into this (when the butter is melted), and simmer them twenty minutes over a moderate fire, turning them frequently, that both sides may be equally done. Make a good raised crust, at the bottom and round the sides of which put some good farce or godiveau; lay the sweet- breads cold on this ; pour the herbs, &c. they were cooked in over them, with two bay leaves, and some slices of bacon. Lay the top crust on the pie, and having orna- mented it, dares, and put it in a brisk oven ; as soon as the top is of a light colour, cut round the edge, and cover it with a large piece of paper folded four times. An hour and a half will be sufficient to bake it, then take off the lid, the bay leaves and bacon ; drain away the fat, and pour in some espagnole and truffles. Lamb’s Tails.— Braise or boil the tails, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little salt, white wine, and a little oil. Fry them of a nice brown colour, and serve them, garnished with fried parsley. You may serve them with what sauce you think proper. Lamb’s Tendons with Asparagus .*—Take two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done, lay them between two dishes, with a weight on the top ; as soon as they are cold, cut them in pieces, leaving on the end of the bone, like cutlets ; put them into a stew pan, with a piece of glaze and a spoonful of consommec; simmer them till they are completely covered with the glaze. Have ready a bundle of asparagus, choose the most tender heads ; boil them in the usual way, in salt and water, for about ten minutes ; skim, and when done, drain them on a sieve; and fry them lightly in a little butter, allemande, and a small quantity of sugar; dish the tendons en couronne, with the asparagus heads in the centre; glaze and serve them.LAM LAM 320 Lamb Throats (Coquilles of).* — Soak some lamb’s throat sweetbreads, the same as those of a calf; put them into a stew- pan, with a little butter and lemon juice ; blanch and let them stand; when cold, cut them in thin slices as for blanquettes, add some mushrooms and truffles, also sliced. Boil a piece of glaze, about the size of a walnut with a little aUemande and a spoonful of consomme ; mix the whole together, add a small quantity of butter, and some lemon juice ; put this preparation into scollop shells, strew bread crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; put a small piece of butter on each, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve them hot. Lamb’s Tongues*—Are dressed in the same manner as sheep’s tongues; they are considered as a greater delicacy. Lamb o lo Villeroy.*—"lake two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done lay them between two dishes to keep them fiat whilst cooling. As soon as they are quite ^old, cut each breast into five pieces ; take oif all the skin and trim them, soak them in some allemande; let them get quite cold again, and then bread them ; dip them in an omelet; bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. Place them on your dish, en couronne, with a clear aspic. LAMPREYS. — Lampreys resemble eels; there are river and sea lampreys; they must be scaled in the same manner as tench, and cut into pieces; then floured and fried. They may also be broiled and served with capers ; or if you serve them as a side dish, mix some oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and mustard, together over the fire ; and serve it as a sauce for the lampreys. Lampreys may also be stewed like carp, and served, en matelotte, as a side dish. Lamprey*—The lamprey is a species of eel, but thicker, shorter, and less brown than that fish ; they are seldom to be had in London, and are not very plentiful in any part of England. They should be chosen fat and are generally cooked in the same manner as eels. Lampreys (Broiled).—Wash them very clean in warm water ; cut them into pieces, melt some butter, and roll them in it; make a seasoning with bread crumbs grated, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sweet herbs chopped very fine ; alter the fish lias been well rubbed in the butter, dip it into the seasoning, and broil it over a clear, gentle fire. Sauce :—take an onion cut small, parsley, mushrooms, capers, an an- chovy minced fine, some pepper and salt; add a little fish broth, and thicken it with some fish cullis; boil it, and strain it over the fish. Lamprey (Broiled).—Cut a lamprey into three pieces, and put it into a pan with white or red wine, a little butter, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, carrots, par- snips, thyme, bay leaf, and cloves. Before the fish is quite done, drain and dip it in butter; cover it with bread crumbs, and broil it slowly, baste it with oil or butter. Serve it dry. Lampreys (to stew).—Cut off the heads, and save the blood, that runs from them; then wash them well in warm water, dry them in a cloth, fry them in a little fresh butter till half done ; pour off the fat, and put in a little white wine ; shake the pan round, put in a little whole pepper, nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, and a bay leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood ; shake the pan round frequently, and cover them close. When they are done, take them out; strain off the sauce; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. Lamprey d Vltalienne.—Put two onions, chopped very small, into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter, a spoonful or two of oil, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of spice, two of garlic, the fish cut in pieces, the blood, and a pint of red wine ; set these on a brisk fire, and boil till the liquor is re- duced ; take out the herbs, and then keep it on till done. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over, and serve. Lamprey (Mateloteof).*—Take the lam- preys, put them into boiling water; take out the entrails, and cut the fish into pieces. Take some sauce tournee, into which put the lampreys, and add white vine, small onions (previously tossed up in a little butter), some mushrooms, and a bunch of sweet herbs seasoned, salt and pepper; stew these, skimming frequently. M hen ready for table, put die blood of the lam- preys to the matelote, and serve it; garnish with fried bread and erny-fish. Lampreys (to pot).—Scald and scrape them, take out the insides, especially the black string ; season with pepper, salt, and mace : put them into a pan, and bake them in a slow oven ; when they are done, take them out of the gravy, put them in a clean pan, and cover them with clarified butter. Lamprey an Restaurant.* — Cut your fish in pieces, put it into a stewpnn with some melted butter, truffles and morels, cut iu thin slices ; when they are nearly done.321 LAR LAR add red wine, salt, pepper, a bit of sugar about the size of an almond, and some fried bread ; finish the dressing, and serve them in their gravy. Lampreys (Stewed).—Clean the fish very carefully, then remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a few cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice ; put it into a small stewpan, with very strong beef gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry; cover it close, and let it stew till tender; then take out the lamprey and keep hot; while you ; boil up the liquor with two or three an- ! chovies chopped, and some flour and butter, ) strain tbe gravy through a sieve ; add lemon juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horseradish. LAPWINGS.—They should be roasted and served in the same manner as wild- *duck. LARD (Hog’s).—The lard should be carefully melted in a jar, put into a kettle of water, and boiled ; run it into bladders that have been particularly well cleaned. It is best to have the bladders small, as the lard will keep better, for, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This being a very useful article in frying fish, it should be prepared with great care. Mixed with butter, it makes a fine crust. LARKS.—These delicate little birds are in high season in November. When they are thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleansed, truss them; do them over with the yolk of egg, and then roll them in bread- crumbs ; spit them on a lark spit, and fasten that on to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time to : roast them in before a quick fire ; whilst they are roasting, baste them with fresh butter, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are well covered with them. Fry some grated bread in butter, set it to drain before the fire, that it may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish under the larks, and garnish with slices of lemon. La n ks. Roast them, larded and covered with bacon; or you mav only cover one • half with bacon, and lard 'the other. Leave in the trails, and put under them roasted bread to receive what falls. For a side- j they may be served a variety of ways. Larks ere Caisses.—Pick, bone, and stuff ; your lark; have ready some small paper | cases, dip them in warm oil, form the larks mto balls, and put one, with a little farce ' underneath, into each case. Set them on a baking-tin, covered with a buttered paper, to prevent their drying whilst baking. When done, place them in a dish, drain off all the lat, squeeze lemon juice, and pour a little espugnole over them. Larks ere Cliipolata.*—Have ready some roasted chestnuts, mushrooms, sausages, and slices ot streaked bacon ; have a little butter in a saucepan, put in the bacon, and when they have had a few turns, put in the sausages : as soon as they are done, put in eight or ten larks ; when they are pretty firm, take all three articles out, pour away half the butter, and put in the mushrooms, give them a few boils ; then stir in a spoon- ful of flour, pour on them a glass of white wine, half a glass of stock, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of salt; give them a few boils, and then replace the bacon, sau- sages, and larks, with the chestnuts ; these must only boil once; then take them out, and serve them. Larks a la Ge noise.*—Toss up a few dry mushrooms in a little lard, moisten- them with stock, veal gravy, and a glass of Champagne ; simmer your larks in this for an hour, and then let them cool. Grate a little Parmesan cheese on a dish that will bear the fire; mix a small quantity of grated bread with it, and place your larks on this layer of cheese; pour over them the sauce they were dressed in, strew grated cheese and bread on it, and set it in a o-en- tle oven for a quarter of an hour. Larks au Gratin.—Pick and bone a dozen and a half of fat larks ; season them with salt and pepper, stuff them with a farce, put some oftbejWe in a dish, lay the larks- on it with fried bread between each, lay slices of bacon over the whole, and put it into the oven for twenty minutes; then drain off the fat, and serve with a well- seasoned espagnole. Larks in Aspic.—Put several into the jelly in what manner you think best, taking care that they lie separate. You may do any small birds you please in this manner. Larks d la. Minute.*—Put some hutter, slices ot streaked bacon, and a few saus- ages, into a stewpan ; when quite hot, put in eight or ten larks; take them out again as soon as they are firm ; pour away half the butter, and put into the pan a few mush- rooms ; give them a boil up, and then add a little flour, a glass of white wine, a little stock, very small quantities of pepper and salt; in a few minutes put the larks in again ; give the whole one boil, and then serve them. Lark Pic d la Pithiviers.*—Take five orLEA LAR 322 six dozen of larks, pick and singe them; split open the backs, take out the intes- tines and mince them ; take a pound and a half of good farce, and having po unded the mince with it, season, and stull the larks with it. Make a raised crust, at the bot- tom of which put a layer of the farce ; wrap each lark in a thin slice of ham, and place them on it, with a bit of butter; cover the whole with slices oi bacon, and bay-leaves ; put on the top erupt, and bake the pie for two or three hours, then take it out, and let it stand till cold. Larks aux Poires— Pick the larks, and truss them as closely as possible ; cut oil one leg; season them with pepper and salt; make a forcemeat as follows : 1 ake a veal sweatbread, as much suet, some mushrooms, and some morels, a little lemon peel, and some sweet herbs; chop them very fine; mix them with the yolk of an e°-g; wi'ap every lark in some of this forcemeat, and shape it like a peai,leaving the leg for the stalk; wash them over with the yolk of an egg, and strew them over with bread crumbs ; bake them in a moderate oven of a fine brown, and serve them with- out sauce. Lauks a la Proven^ ale*— Pick, singe, and empty the larks; mince a few truffles and morels, put them into a stewpau w ith a glass of consomme, half a glass of white wine, salt, and pepper; boil these for about a quarter of an hour, then put in your larks, and simmer them slowly for five- and-forty minutes ; put in a little butter worked with flour, and stir it frequently to thicken it. Larks (RagoxU of) .—Fry your larks with an onion stuck with cloves, and a few truffles and mushrooms ; pour off the fat, and shake over them a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, and stew them till they are sufficiently done. It there is any fat skim it off; put to it some lemon juice, and pepper and salt to your taste. Larks (Ragout of).-Pick, singe, and bone the larks; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and scallions, a slice of ham, and a scalded sweetbread cut m pieces ; simmer them a minute or two, and then add a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, and salt; when the larks are nearly done, and the liquor reduced, take out the bam, parsley, and scallions. Serve them with any stewed greens or a culliB. Larks raised Pie, hot— Make a raised crust in the usual way, lay some farce at the bottom of it, place some larks (boned) on it, fill up the pie with the same, cover and bake it. When done, take off the top | crust, draw away what fat there may lie, pour a rich ragout into it, season it very highly, and serve it open. Larks rousted a la Franfoite*—Pick and singe the larks, but do not empty i them ; wrap them in slices of bacon ; fas- ten them on a spit, and roast them; lay a toast in the dripping-pan under them; ; serve the larks on this toast when done. Larks (Salmi of).*—Having properly,- prepared your larks, cut them into quar- • ters ; take the livers and gizzards, bruise : them, and then boil them in a little stock, , red wine, with shalots minced, salt, and i pepper ; in about a quarter of an hour put t j your birds into this, and simmer them an 1 j hour; serve the salmi with fried bread l round. LAVENDER VinegarTake half a i pound of lavender flowers, dry them i quickly, put them into a jug with a gallon i of the best white wine vinegar; set it in i the sun for a week, covered close ; then i draw it off, press the dregs, filter it : through blotting paper and bottle it; keep > them closely corked. LAVER.—This plant grows on the • rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Rub some of it in a dish, and put it over a lamp, with a bit of butter and the squeeze of a Seville orange; stir it till hot; it is eaten with roast meat. LAZAGNES* — The only difference between these and nouilles is, that the la- sagnes are cut rather larger. Great care must be taken not to dress them too much. Lazagne Soup, with Cheese. Ibe la- zttgne is a paste, resembling macaroni; the only difference consists in its being flat, somewhat like a bean, instead of be- ing in pipes. Wash and boil it in stock, like rice, with a little salt; drain it in a cullender; lay some of the lazagne at the bottom of the soup-dish with some pieces of butter on it; strew grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese over them ; then put a layer of lazagnes, and so on, alternately, till the dish be full, taking care, however, that the last laver is cheese; colour it with a sala- mander, pour some good stock over, an serve it. LEAVES (to green) for ornamenting Fruit.—Take small leaves of a pear tree, keep them close stopped in a pan ot ' er juice and water; give them a boil m some syrup of apricots; put them between two323 LEM LEM pieces of glass to dry; smooth and cut them into the shape of apricot leaves (the leaves should be procured with stalks); stick them about the apricots or any other preserved fruit; hut the leaves must he cut in the shape of the leaf which belongs to the fruit you ornament. LEEKS.—Leeks are most generally used for soups, ragouts, and other made dishes; they are very rarely brought to table, in which case dress them as fol- lows : Put them into the stock-pot till about three parts done; then take them out, drain, and soak them in vinegar sea- : soned with pepper, salt, and cloves; drain them again, stuff the hearts with a farce, dip them in batter, and fry them. Leek (Scotch) Soup.— Put the water in which a leg of mutton has been boiled into a stewpan, with a quantity of chopped •i leeks, pepper, and salt; simmer them an hour ; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, and let it simmer gently over a slow : fire, taking great care that it does not bum at the bottom. Leek Soup.*—Wash and cut some leeks in pieces, about an inch in length, give ; them a few turns over the fire in some : butter ; then add broth to them, and when they have simmered in it for about three quarters of an hour, soak your bread iu c the usual manner, and pour on it the leeks and soup. Leeks with Toasts.—Take a dozen very fine leeks, split them nearly in half, and .1 wash them well; tie them like asparagus, and put them in a stewpan of boiling wa- ter, with a handful of salt; when well done, put them on a sieve to drain; in the f mean time make two thick toasts, well butter them, serve the leeks upon them. LEMONADE.—To a gallon of spring ( water add some cinnamon and cloves, ! plenty of orange and plenty of lemon juice, and a bit of the peel of each ; ; sweeten well with loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of six eggs, and the yolk of one; give it a boil, and then let it (Simmer for ten minutes; run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand till cold, before it is drank. ' Lemonade.*—Take four lemons, pare the rind as thin as possible ; squeeze them tnto a quart of water, add half a pound of fine sugar, and let it stand two or three hours, then pass it through a jelly-bao- into decanters. Lemonade to be made a day before wanted. ~-Pare two dozen of good-sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four hours ; rub some fine sugar on the lemons to ob- tain the essence, and put it into a china bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons ; add to it one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix it well together, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Lemonade that has the flavour and ap~ pearance of Jelly.—Pare as thin as possi- ble six lemons, and a couple of Seville oranges, and steep them in a quart of hot water for four hours ; boil one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of water, and skim it; add the liquor of the six lemons, and of the two oranges, to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons, stir the whole well, and run. through a jelly bag till clear; then add a little orange water if you like the flavour, and if necessary, add more sugar-. It will keep well if properly corked. Lemonade and Wine.*—Put the peel and juice of two lemons into a pan, and pour on them a pint of boiling water, a pound of sugar, and two bottles of good Burgundy ; let these stand half an hour, then strain it as usual. Lemon Bonbons.*—Take two pounds of the best lump sugar, clarify and boil it to caramel; but just before it reaches that point, grate the rind of a lemon and put it in it; in the mean while melt a little but- ter; skim, and pour it off clear; take a spoonful of this butter, and rub it with your hand over a copper-plate or marble slab, on which pour the caramel sugar * then have a sword blade, take an end in each hand, and impress lines in the sugar about an inch apart; then impress similar lines across the first, so as to form small cakes; this operation should be performed as quickly as possible, lest the sugar should cool before the whole is marked ; when however all is done, pass the blade carefully between the sugar and the slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and when perfectly cold, separate the bonbons, and wrap each in paper; keep them in a dry place. J Lemon Brandy.—Put the peel of two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it stand for four and twenty hours, then strain it; boil two ounces of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water; then skim, and let it stand till cold, when cold, mix it witli the brandy. v 2324 LEM LEM Lemon Butter with Sweetmeats.—Blanch and pound very fine an ounce of sweet al- jnonds, put them to a quart of boiling cream, add the whites of three eggs well beaten, a little orange-flower water, and sweeten according to taste. Then take a lemon, gTate the rind into some lemon ■juice, add it to the cream and make it boil; then put it into a hair sieve, and when well drained, beat it together, and lay it in a high dish, with sweetmeats or ratafia calces all round. Lemon Cakes.—Quarter as many lemons as you think proper, they must have good rinds, and boil them in two or three wa- ters, till they are tender, and have lost their bitterness ; then skin them, and put them in a napkin to fry ; with a knife take all the skins and seeds out of the pulp, shred the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar into a tossing- pan, with just sufficient water to dissolve the sugar ; boil it till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and then by degrees put in the peel and pulps ; stir them well before you set them on the fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and thick, and then put it into flat-bottomed glasses; set them in a stove, and keep them in a continual and moderate heat, and turn them out upon classes, as soon as they are candied. ° Lemon Cukes.—Choose the best coloured lemons, scrape out the blocks, and grate off all the peel; put the peel into a strainer ; wet some sugar, boil it to candy height; then take it off, and put m the grated lemon peel; set it on the fire again, and let it boil up, squeeze in a little le- mon juice, and drop them on buttered plates or paper. . Lemon Cake.—Take the whites of ten eggs, add three spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, and beat them an hour with a whisk ; then put in a pound of sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon ; when well mixed add the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs, beaten smooth ; stir in three quarters of a pound of flour; then butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Lemon Cheesecakes.—Boil the peel of two large lemons till they are quite ten- der, and then pound it well in a mortar, with four or five ounces of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, half a pound of fresh flutter, and a little curd beaten fine: pound and mix altogether, lay a rich puft paste in some putty-pans, fill them half full, and bake them carefully. Lemon Cheesecakes.—Mix four ounces rl of sifted lump sugar, and four ounces of t butter together, and gently melt it; then :) add the yolks of two, and the white of one i egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, | and the juice of one lemon and a half, one j Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds, i pounded, three spoonsful of brandy ; mix the whole well together, and put it to paste made with the following ingredi- i ents : eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two-tliirds of which must be mixed 1 with the flour first; then wet it with six spoonsful of water, and roll in the remain- ■ der of the butter. Lemon Chips (Grillage of).—Pare off' the rinds of your lemons as thin as possi- • ble, and put them into double the quantity of sugar, boiled to la grande plume; stir : them well, squeeze a little lemon juice over, and then lay them on a baking plate, previously rubbed with oil; strew pow- - der sugar over, and dry them in a stove. Lemons (Compote of).*—Cut them in small pieces and boil them in water till they are tender, then change them into cold water; then make a syrup with a glass of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve cold. Lemon Conserve*—Grate the rind of a ; lemon on apiece of sugar (about a pound), . scrape off the surface of the sugar as the lemon adheres to it, until you have rasped i the whole of the rind; squeeze half the» juice on the scraped sugar, and then boil the rest to la grande plume; take it from the < fire when at this degree, and let it stand a i little ; stir in the lemon gently, and when it forms a sort of glace on the top of the • sugar, pour the conserve into moulds; being careful, however, that it is not too 1 hot. Lemon Cream.—Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs,- well beaten, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and the rind of a lemon, cut very j thin; boil it up, then stir it till almost I cold ; put the juice of a lemon into a dish or basin, and pour the cream upon it, stir- ring till quite cold, . Lemon Cream (C/ear).—Take a little hartshorn jelly, and put into it the peel j of two lemons, taking care that there is none of the white ; set it over the tire, e it boil; take the whites of six eggs, and bent them well; take the juice of our j lemons, grate in the peel to the juice, an let it soak a little while, and afterwardLEM 325 LEM put the juice and eggs together; put in a sufficient quantity of double-refined sugar to sweeten it; let it boil very fast near a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and as it runs through put it in again, till it is quite clear; after which, take the peels of the lemons boiled in it, and cut them into each glass; stir it till it is half cold, and then pour it on the peel in the glasses. Lemon Cream. (Yellow).—Grate off the _peel of four lemons, squeeze the juice to it, let it steep four or five hours, strain it, put to it the whites of eight eggs, and the yolks of two, well beaten and strained; add thereto a pound of double-refined sugar, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pint •of spring water, stir these all together; set it on a quick fire, but let it not boil; i it is done sufficiently when it creams. Lemon Cream, Ices *—Take two fine large lemons, nib their rind on a piece of sugar, and scrape it off, and put on paper; set two quarts of cream on the fire to boil; iin the meanwhile whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a snow, then add to it the twelve yolks, and a pound of fine sifted ! sugar ; when well mixed, put them a little | at a time to the boiling cream, with the | scraped sugar; boil up the whole two or three times, stirring constantly, and pour j it through a sieve into a basin. When ■cold, put it into the mould and ice it, ac- cording to the directions. ! Lemon Custard.—Beat the yolks of ten | -eggs, strain them, beat them with a pint of cream; sweeten the juice of two lemons, I boil it with the peel of one; strain it; when cold, stir it to the cream and eggs till it nearly boils, or put it into a dish, grate 1 over the rind of a lemon, and brown it with 1 a salamander. Lemon -Drops.—Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour; mix well together, and beat it into a light paste, with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, j)ut them on a tin plate, and set them in a I a moderate oven. Lemon Essence.—Hasp your lemons all I Jound, very thin, and for every quarter of I a pound of rind, allow one pound of sugar; anx it well with a large spaddle till you find it is all of the same colour, and that ! the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jai, and press it down as hard as you can; put a bladder over the paper you cover with, and tie itoverquito tight; put it by, ?nd in a month’s time it will be iitc or use Lemon Flowers (Conserve of). — Take six ounces of lemon flowers, picked; dis- solve two pounds of sugar, boil it to petit casse ; then throw in the flowers, let them boil up together once, and stir them till the sugar bubbles; finish the conserve as usual. Lemon (Green) preserved.*—Split some small green lemons on one side that they may take the sugar inside as well as out- side; put them into cold water, and set them on the lire, and keep them from boil- ing by pouring cold water on them fre- quently; as soon, however, as they rise above it, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water; after they have lain a short time in it, put them on the fire, and boil slowly till tliefruitis quite tend er, when they must again be put into cold water. Clarify some sugar, put the lemons to it, and having let it boil up seven or eight times, put the whole into a pan till the next day; then drain off the syrup, boil it up twenty or thirty times, having added a little fresh sugar, pour it over your le- mons, and repeat this process for three successive days, increasing the boiling point of the sugar each day, so that on the last it will be to perle; when the fruit must be boiled with it once, and then it may be put into pots. If you wish the preserves to be dry, lay the fruit on slates, and place them in a stove or oven to dry. Lemon Honeycomb.—-Take the juice of one lemon, and sweeten it according to your taste, and put it in the dish in which, you intend to serve it. Beat up the white of an egg, then mix it with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon juice. It should be made the day before it is wanted. Lemon Ice Cream.—Take the juice of three or four lemons, and grate the peel of one lemon ; add two gills of syrup, and one pint of cream; mix it all together, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. Lemon Ice with Wine*—Squeeze the juice from as many lemons as will yield half a pound, which filter through blotting- paper. Put a pound and a half of fine su- gar, with a bottle of white wine, and half tlie quantity of water,on the fire; when it has boiled up three or four times, add the juice to it, and having boiled that also the same number of times, put in as much tincture of saffron as will tinge it of a fine yellow; strain, and finish the ice as usual. Lemon Jelly.—Set a pint and a half of326 LEM LEM clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute it with a little water; when it boils, and has been well skimmed, put in two ounces of clarified isinglass, with a little lemon peel cut very thin; let these boil till you have squeezed through a sieve, into a basin, the juice of six lemons; then pass your sugar and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould, as any other jelly; when turned out, gar- nish it with dried jellies. Lemon Jelly.*—Take five large lemons, Squeeze out the juice from them, and add to it the whites of six eggs, well beaten, ten ounces of double-refined sugar, beaten very fine, twenty spoonsful of spring wa- ter ; mix all well together, strain it through a jelly-hag; set it over a gentle fire, skim it well, and when it is hot (it must not boil) take it off-, and pour it into glasses, with shreds of lemon peel. Lemon Juice (Conserve of')*—Squeeze the juice of three lemons into a silver dish, set it on a moderate fire, and let it stand till reduced to half; then add a pound of sugar boiled to casse, and finish the con- serve in the usual way. Lemon Juice (to keep).—Keep the le- mons for two or three days in a cool place; if too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the peel off some, and roll them under your Land, they will then part with their juice more readily; others you may leave un- pared for grating, when the pulp has been taken out, and they have been dried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin; then strain it through some muslin, taking care that none of the pulp passes through. Have some half and quarter of ounce phials, he careful that they are perfectly dry, and fill them with the lemon juice ; fill them so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each; cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. If you make use of larger hials, you must put in rather more than alf a tea-spoonful of sweet oil. When you want lemon juice, open such a sized bottle as you will use in two or three days; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted; and when all is removed, the juice will he as good as when first bottled. Hang the peels up to diy, and keep them in a place free from dust. Lemons (to keep) for Puddings.—When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, without the pulp; let them re- main in the same a fortnight, adding no more; boil them in tho same till tender; strain it from them, and when they are nearly dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup, of common loaf- sugar and water, and pour it over them; in a week or ten days, boil them gently in it till they look clear: and that they may be covered with it in the jar, you may cut I j each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy a smaller space. Lemon Loaves.—Cut the fruit in halves, . i squeeze them, and preserve the liquor, I take out the pulp, boil the peels till the .; bitter is extracted; then lay them in syrup >1 for two days; then boil the syrup they have laid in till it is of a good consistency, add 1 the peels, and put them into glasses for : use; when they are wanted, take what: quantity is sufficient for a dish, and fill 1 them with some pudding mixture, either * marrow, bread, plum, &c„ or with a cus- • tard, and bake them with the greatest care. . Lemon Marmalade.—Take half a dozen i lemons, grate off two of the rinds; then cut t them all, and pick out the inside from the skin and seeds ; put to it the grated lemon, and about half a pint of pippin jelly; bake ■ the same weight of sugar to a very strong souffle; then put it to the inside, and boil all very quick, till it becomes a jelly, which may be ascertained by dipping in the skim- • mer, and holding it up to drain; if it is sufficiently jellied, it will break from the • skimmer in flakes, and if not, it will run i off in little streams; when done, put it into glasses or pots. Lemon Mince Pies.—Squeeze out the juice from a large lemon; boil the outside till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of cur- rants, four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as for other pies. Make a short crust, nnd fill the patty-pans in the usual manner. Lemon Paste.—Cut off the ends of the lemons, and run them through and through with a long pin; put them on the fire in water, and boil them till tender; then take them out, lay them in cold water a mi- nute, put them into a cloth, and press out tho water ; pound and rub them through a sieve, mix them with double the quantity of sugar boiled to la grande plume. pe the whole on tho fire to simmer, stirring constantly, and finish the paste as usual. Lemon Pastille.—Grate the nnd ot a lemon without any of the white, infuse iLEM LEM 327 in a glass of water, with half an ounce of gum dragon ; when the latter is completely dissolved, press it through a cloth, put it into a mortar, and work it up with sugar to the proper consistence ; then form it according to your fancy, and dry them in the oven. Lemon Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- sible ; put it in a plate, take three or four lemons, and squeeze their juice over the sugar ; mix it well with a spoon, till you make it rather a thickish paste, so that you can take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, about the size of a sixpence, place them in a stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry, then take them off from the paper; you may i use, if you please, some of the peel grated, i but not chipped ; for as it is a melting | pastil, some of the bits would remain in i the mouth. Lemon Peel (Candied).*—Take some I thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yellow ) peel, and throw it into boiling water till soft, when it must be put into cold water. Clarify some fine sugar, and boil it au { petit lissd, and having drained the lemon i peel, pour on it the sjTup (whilst hot) ; | the next day boil the syrup again, and re- j turn it to the peel; the third and fourth j days proceed in the same manner, adding a small quantity of clarified sugar; the i last time the syrup is boiled, as soon as it : rises to perle, put in the peel, cover and ! boil the whole together once, and when i cold, drain and dry them in a stove. Lemon Peels (Candied or Dried).—Take i some preserved lemon peels, wash them in i Warm water, and put them on a sieve to 1 drain ; boil some syrup on the fire till it ) comes to a blow, and put your peels in; as l soon as they are covered with sugar take them out again, put them on wires for all the sugar to drop through, then let them | Stand fill cold, and put them into boxes. Lemon Peel (to candy). — Take some lemon peels, and clean them well from the ■ pulp, and let them lay two days in salt and water ; then scald and drain them dry, then boil them in a thin syrup till they look quite clear. After which, take them Out, and have ready a thick syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put them into it, and ' simmer them till tho sugar candies about the pan and peels. Then lay them sepa- ' rately on a hair sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to drv in a slow oven. Lemon Peel au Caramel.*—Take some very dry preserved lemon peel, and cut it into several small square pieces; putthese pieces each on the point of little sticks for this purpose, and dip them into caramel sugar as directed. See Chestnuts an caramel. Lemon Peel Petit Souffles*—-Put into a saucepan tvro ounces of potatoe flour, which mix with a little milk, and then add to it three glasses of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; set these over a moderate stove, stirring con- stantly ; in about eight minutes pour it into another sacepan, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of powder sugar (having previously grated on it the rinds of two lemons), and two eggs ; stir them together a minute, and then add the yolks of eggs; take two dozen flat custard moulds, line them with puff paste, pour the preparation into them, and bake them in a moderate oven; when done, glaze them with fine sugar, and serve them hot. Lemon Peel (Iiatafia of).—Grate the yellow rind only of seven or eight lemons; infuse it in three quarts of the best brandy for three weeks, at the end of which time, add three quarters of a pound of fine cla- rified sugar to each quart, let it stand a fortnight longer, then filter and bottle it. Lemon Peel (Syrup of).*—Take five ounces of fresh lemon peel, put it into a glass cucurbite, which has been gradually heated; pour on them two pounds of nearly boiling water; close the vessel very tight, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours ; after which, let the infusion run out gently without pressing the peel; add two pounds of powder sugar, and then boil the whole to grand perld, when about half cold, put in a few drops of spirit of lemon. Lemon Petits (Souffles of ).*—Put half a pound of sifted sugar into a pan, and mix it with the white of an egg ; rasp the rind of a fine sound lemon on a piece of sugar, scrape off the surface, and add it to the above; when it has become a pretty firm paste, roll it out, sprinkle fine sugar over, and cut into bands about an inch wide ; cut these again into squares, which roll in the hollow of yourliands, wetting them slightly for that purpose ; the souffles being formed, puteachinto a small round case, rathermore than an inch in diameter, and about four in height; when all is done, dip the end of your fore finger in water, and press it lightly on tho top of each souffle; put them into a gentle oven, for about a quarter of an hour by which time they will have32B LEM LEM r i en considerably above tbe case; if the suiface be well dried, take them out, but if not let them remain a few minutes longer. Lemon Pickle.—Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two ounces of horseradish sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, ditto of Cayenne, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar, put it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water; or set tbe jar on a hot- hearth till done. Set tbe jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. Lemon (to pickle).*—Take twelve le- mons, and rub them well with a piece of flannel; then rub them over with bay salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, turning them every day, for three days ; then slice an ounce of ginger, and salt it well, and let it lay in salt for three days; parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salted, for three days. A small handful of mustard seed bruised, some Cayenne pepper, and one clove of garlic should be put to each lemon ; take your lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, put them into a jar with the spice, and cover them with the best white wine vinegar; stop them up close, and in a month’s time they will be fit for use. Lemon (to pickle).—They should be small, and with thick rinds; rub them with pieces of flannel, then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp ; fill the slits with salt, hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquor, until tender ; make a sufficient quantity of pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger, boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. Lemon Posset.—Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a china bowl, or small deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweeten it like syrup, add a little brand}'; boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange peel; take out the peel; when cold, put the cream into a teapot, pour it to the syrup, holding it high. Make it the day before it is wanted. Lemons (Preserved) Liquid and Dry.*— Choose your lemons ns near of a size as you can, with rather thick rinds ; pare, and put them in cold water, then into boiling- water over a moderate fire ; and when you t can insert a pin’s head with ease, throw them again into cold water. Boil some sugar to liss£, then put in tbe lemons, give them a few boils together, skim, and put them into a pan; tbe next day drain off the sugar, boil it several times, and then pour it over the lemons again ; the third 1 day boil the sugar to la nappe, adding fresh : i sugar to it; put the lemons in, cover the pan, give them one boil; do this for two days successively ; on the last, however, . j boil the sugar to perle, and when you have boiled the lemons, put them by in pots. Lemon Pudding.—Peel four lemons i thin ; boil them till they are tender; rub i them through a hair sieve, and preserve - the fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples i biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and two i ounces of fresh butter, and pour over them i some boiling milk or cream in which a . stick of cinnamon has been boiled. IV hen cold, mix with them the pulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well beaten; sweeten ac- cording to taste, and if you choose, add . brandy. Edge a dish with good puff- paste, put in the mixture; garnish the top i with strings of paste, as for tartlets, and I bake it in a moderately heated oven. Lemon Pudding.—Put half a pound of ' j fresh butter with half a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan, and keep it stirring over the fire till it boils ; put it into an earthen pan, and grate the rind of a large lemon into it, and let it stand till cold ; beat eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon on them; mix the sugar and butter with them; put some rich puff paste at the bottom of a dish, then put in the preparation, 1 add bits of candied lemon peel when you have put in the preparation. Bake with great care. Lemons (Binds of) Marmalade. * — Having squeezed the juice from your lemons, cut out all the white part, and put the rinds into boiling water; as soon as they begin to soften, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water : then I lay them on a sieve to drain, and make them into marmalade, in the same manner I as apricots. Orange rinds are done this way. L Lemon Sauce*—Put two glasses of water into a saucepan, over the fire, and as soon as it boils, add shred parsley, salt; pepper, a piece of butter, and the juice of two lemons; make tbe whole quite hot, and in about five minutes the sauce will he ready for table. Lemon Sauce.—Pare a lemon, and cutLEM LEM 329 it into slices; take out the seeds, and chop it small; boil the liver of a fowl, and bruise it; mix these in a little gravy, then melt some butter, put in the liver, &c., and add a little of the peel, chopped fine. Lemon Sauce for boiled Fowls. — Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Lemon Sauce ( White) for boiled Fowls. —Put the peel of a small lemon, cut ex- tremely thin, into a pint of sweet, rich cream, with a sprig of lemon thyme, and ten white pepper-coms ; simmer it gently till it tastes well of the lemon ; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, rubbed in a dessert-spoonful of flour. Boil it up, then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stilling it well. Dish the fowls, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together: add salt according to your taste. Lemon Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound and a half of white sugar in a quart of clear i water ; take nine large lemons, wipe them j perfectly, cut each across, and squeeze the juice into the dissolved sugar; plunge the lemons into the sugared water, and press them, so as to extract not only the juice, but the oil contained in the rind. Mix the whole together, and strain it through a close hair sieve. Pour the liquid into a sorbetiere, and finish in the same manner as cream sherbet. Lemon Sweetmeats *—Take a pound of I marchpane paste, and mix it with as many yolks of eggs as mil enable you to spread | the paste with a knife ; add to it a sufficient quantity of grated lemon peel to impart the flavour required. The whole bein°- i well mixed, cut some sheets of wafer paper into such figures as your fancy may dictate, ; and spread the paste over them' about a quarter of an inch in thickness; place them ' on paper, and bake them in a moderate Oven. If you wish to glaze your sweet- j meats, boil some sugar with orange-flower water to la plume, and when they are i taken out of the oven, wash them over ' with the syrup, which dries almost imme- : diately. Lemon Syllabubs.—Take a pint of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice; sugar accord- ing to taste ; let it stand some timo; mill 1 or whip it, lay the froth on a sieve; put the remainder into glasses, and lay on the ! irotli. They should be made the day be- fore they are wanted. If you should wish them to taste very strong of the lemon, you must make use of the juice of six lemons, and nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep four or five days. Lemons (Syrup of).*—Squeeze as many lemons as will yield about three quarters of a pound of juice, taking particular care that the peel of every lemon is perfectly sound, and that they are none of them in the least degree bitter. Set your juice in the cellar for four days, and then filter it through blotting-paper. Break a pound and a half of double-refined sugar into pieces about an inch square; put them into a gallon matrass, pour the lemon juice over it, close the matrass with paper, and place it in a bain-marie until the sugar is entirely dissolved ; then extinguish your fire, and let the matrass cool gradually; when cold, add two spoonsful of spirit of lemons, then bottle it, keep it well corked. Lemon Tart.—Rub six lemons well with salt, put them into water with a little salt in it for two days ; then change them every day with fresh water without salt, for a fortnight. Boil them till they are tender, and then cut them into half quarters, cor- nerwise, as thin as possible. Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, and put them into a pint of water. Let them boil till they break; then put the liquor to the lemons, half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and a pound of sugar. Boil these together a quarter of an hour; then put it into a pot, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon; two spoonsful will be sufficient to give a proper flavour to your tart. Put fine, thin, puff paste into your patty-pans, which must be small and shallow. Before you put your tarts in the oven take a feather or brush and rub them over with melted butter, and then sift over them some double-refined sugar. Lemon Wafers.—Squeezethe juice of six lemons into a basin; pound and sift some double-refined sugar, and mix it with the lemon juice; put the white of one egg with it, and mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good consistence; take some sheets of wafer paper, and put one sheet of it on a pewter sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of the preparation, and spread it all over the paper with a knife; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick in a hot stove, with that side the paste is on uppermost, and you will find they will curl; when they are half curled, take them off very carefully and put them up, endwise in a sieve, that they may standup ; let them be in the hot stove one day, and you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done. Lemon Water.—Put two thin slices of thinly-pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close for two hours. Lemon Water Ice.—To a pint of lemon juice, put a pint of water, half a gill of brandy, sweeten it with clarified sugar, and freeze it. Lemon ( White) Conserve.—Boil a pound of the finest sugar, take it off the fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemon at different times, stirring continually; it will make the sugar as white as milk if properly done; take care not to drop any of die seeds into it; work it well together, and when it is of an equal substance (which prove in the same manner as any other jelly), pour it into a mould. Lemon con- serve is made in the same manner, only that the sugar must he boiled to a greater height than for white lemon conserve. LENTILS*—Choose them large and white, and, after having washed and picked them, boil in water ; when done, fricassee them like white kidney-beans. There is a small sort of lentil which is not muGh used to fricassee, but is the best to make cullis, both from the colour being finer, and the flavour better. Lentil Cullis.—Slake ameat gravy with real, ham, onions, parsley, scallions, two cloves, and some winter savory; set these on the fire, and when the meat catches, add some stock, and simmer till done. Boil the lentils in stock, pound and rub them through a sieve into the stewpan with the meat; give the whole one boil; then take out the meat, and strain the cullis, which must not be too thick. Lentils ( Fricasseed).*—Slake aliglitVoiiT, in which put some sweet herbs, or onions cut in dice ; give them a few turns in the roux; to which add a little stock, or water; when well mixed, put in the lentils with salt and pepper. Serve them hot. Lentils a la Maitre d’Hotel.* —,Blanch and drain your lentils, put them into a pan with a good bit of butter, shred parsley and scallions, salt, and pepper ; fry them lightly, and serve them very hot. Lentils a la Maitre d'Hotel*—Boil some lentils in salt and water; then drain them, and put them into a saucepan, with a largo piece of butter; shred parsley, some salt, and pepper; toss them in a stewpnn, and serve them hot. Garnish with crusts of s bread round. Lentils ( Puree of).*—Take two pints of I lentils, and do them in the same manner as J dry peas; when done, take out the vege- ,1 tables, bacon, and beef; strain the lentils, I and put them into a stewpan, with three or t I four ladiesful of espagnole. This puree re- I quires more liquid than the peas, as it ii will take a longer time to colour; skim it y well, and be careful not to make it too : tj thick. When properly reduced, put it into ! another saucepan, and set it by till wanted. . LETTUCES a VEspagnole. * — Wash . j some lettuce hearts; boil them about : twenty minutes in plenty of water with 11 salt in it; then press out all the water; ; j put pepper and salt inside the lettuces, ,; and tie them up. Lay slices of veal and i bacon, two carrots cut in pieces, three i onions, two cloves, and a bay leaf; put in i the lettuces, with bacon overthem ; moisten . I with stock and the remains of broth ; when j they have simmered an hour, put the let- | tuces in a cloth, press out all the moisture, . untie and glaze them. Dish them en i couronne with croutons, nearly the same I size. Serve an espagnole sauce under them, j Lettuces (Fried). *—Choose your let- | tuces small and round; trim and tie them up, put them into a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, onions, salt, pepper, nut- I meg, a bunch of sweet herbs, and stock; braise them in this till nearly done ; take them out, press them in a cloth; when | cold, dip them in hatter and fry them. Lettuces (Garhure of).* — Put about thirty lettuces into boiling water, and l blanch them for half an hour; then let them cool ; press out all the water, tie them up, line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon ; lay the lettuces on this, with two or three carrots, three onions, and two cloves ; cover them with bacon, pour in some good stock, and simmer them an hour and a half; then drain the lettuces, cut them in slices, longwise. Put, alter- nately, layers of bread crumbs and lettuces, until all the latter are used ; pour the sauce over them (having strained it) ; set the dish over the fire,'and simmer the whole for some time. Put scarcely any salt to this garbure, but strew pepper between each layer. Lettuces (Garniture of).*—Take several fine lettuces, pick off the green leaves, wash them well in cold water; and having blanched them in boiling, throw them again into cold water; drain, press, and tie them up. Put the lettuces into a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, salt, pepper,LET 331 LEV scallions, thyme, basil, parsley, bay leaf, cloves, onions, ancl carrots, a glass ofwhite nine, and a sufficient quantity of either stock or water to cover them; braise them in this for several hours over a slow fire. When wanted, drain them well, and if large, cut them in two, lengthwise. Lettuces with Gravy.*—Wash and boil them in boiling water, with some salt ; when done, press and chop them up, and put them into a saucepan with a little butter and gravy; stew them well, season with pepper, salt, and a little sugar, and serve. Lettuces (Minced).*—Take as many lettuce hearts as you may require; wash them well, and blanch them in a little salt i water; when done, put them into cold : water; when they are sufficiently cooled, put them into a cullender, and press out , all the water with your hand; then mince them small; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan; then put in the * lettuces with salt and pepper; in a few i minutes stir in a little flour, add some ' stock, and stew the whole about a quarter of an hour; then serve it with bread round it. Lettuce Soup.* — Having picked and | washed the lettuces, put them into boiling l water, with a handful of salt, for half an 1 hour; then throw them into cold water; I the lettuces being cooled, press out the | water, and tie them up; lay some slices | of veal in a stewpan, then slices of bacon; j place your lettuces on them, cover them I with the same; put in some onions and j Carrots sliced; moisten them with stock, | and boil them over a gentle fire for an hour, ' Or longer, if necessary; prepare your bread | as usual, and place the lettuces on it, and pour your soup on them. Lettuce Soup.—Take two dozen fine : cabbage lettuces, well washed and blanched in salt and water; when done, take a cul- I lender spoon, and put them in a stewpan I of clear water for a few minutes, place j them on a clear hair sieve, and when well Strained, they must be cut across in three pieces, and put in a soup pot with a little f sugar and salt; fill it up with good consomme, ! an(1 set it by the stove to boil gently; Ekim it well, and clarify it the same as Other soups. Lettuces (Minced) Soup.*— Pick off all the green leaves of the lettuces, chop the ■ hearts small, and toss them up in a little butter, till they are reduced to a pulp; then add your broth or stock, and boil them for an hour ; soak your bread as usual, and then finish your soup. Cos lettuces are done in the same manner, Lettuces (Stuffed).—This dish is pre- pared, dressed, and served in the same manner as cabbages stiffed. LEVERET.—(See Hare.) Leveret d I’Anglaise.—Skin a leveret without taking off the paws, which must also be skinned, leave on the nails ; then take out the internal parts carefully; scald the ears in the same manner as those of a pig; remove the bitter parts from the liver, pound it with equal quantities of butter and panada; mix these with the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper, spices; cut a large onion into dice, toss it up in a little but- ter; when cold, add it, with a small quan- tity of dry sage rubbed into powder, to your farce, and fill the leveret; sew it up, and truss it; fasten it on the spit, tie slices of bacon and a buttered paper over it; roast it about an hour and a quarter; take off the paper and the bacon before it is quite done; serve it with gravy and currant jelly, and melted butter if you like. Leveret en Caisse.—Take two small, or one good-sized leveret, cut m pieces, as for civet; put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of grated ba- con, a dozen shalots, as many mushrooms, and some parsley, all chopped small; sea- son it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice, a clove of garlic pounded, and a hay leaf; put to this a bottle of white wine, and reduce till the herbs give out the but- ter again; then put in the pieces of hare, and stew it with fire over and under for half an hour, then take them out, and lay them on a dish ; put two spoonsful of re- duced espagnole to the herbs, and when pretty thick, pour it over the leveret, and leave it to cool; in the mean while oil six sheets of paper, on one of which lay thin slices of bacon ; then put the cold leveret in as square a form as you can, with all the seasoning, cover it with bacon, and the five sheets of paper, so folded, over the edges (still preserving the square shape), that none of the seasoning or sauce may escape, tie it up, and an hour beforo din- ner put it on a gridiron, over a slow fire; be careful that the paper does not burn; when sufficiently done, take off the thread and one sheet of the paper; make a small square opening, into which pour a reduced espagnole. Leveret in Caul.—Bone a leveret, and fdl it with a good forcemeat, wrap it in a caul, fasten it on the spit, baste with butter, and when done, serve it with a sauce piquante. f.LEV 332 LIV Leveretau Clievreuil.—Seta good-sized leveret over a charcoal fire, lard and lay it for three or four hours in -warm water, vinegar, butter, flour, salt, pepper, pars- ley, shalots, thyme, bay leaf, basil, sliced onions, lemon peel and cloves; fasten it on the spit, put it to the fire, basting it with the above marinade; strain what re- mains of it, add a little cullis, and serve in a boat, when the leveret is done. Leverets (Putes of).—Take the meat from the bones of a cold roast leveret, mince it as fine as possible, with a slice of lamb or veal blanched ; put it into a sauce- pan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little veal gravy, give it a few turns: in the mean time, roll out some puff paste very thin ; cut it into pieces the size of a crown piece ; moisten one half of the num- ber, lay a little of the above preparation on each ; and cover them with the remain- ing half of the pieces ; fasten the edges toge- ther, and fry them either in lard or butter. Leveret (Cutlets of).—Take the fillets from a leveret, cut out as many ribs as you have fillets, and stick a bone in each; lay them on a dish that will bear the fire, with a little broth, sweet herbs, mushrooms, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter; cover, and set the dish on the fire; stir them two or three times, when done, serve them with a rich cullis. Leveret Fillets Bigarre.—Take eight leveret fillets, trim and bread the four smallest; have some breasts of fowl cut in semicircles, slit the four larger fillets, and put one of the semicircles in each, so as to form a J ; broil the four breaded fil- lets, and fry the four others lightly in butter; dish them alternately en couronne, with a puree of mushrooms in the middle; glaze, and serve them. Leverets’ Fillets Fried*—Take six fil- lets of leveret, cut each into three pieces, and these again in two, by which you will have eighteen pieces; make a farce the same as for hare ; split each piece in half; beat them with the handle of a knife; sea- son with salt and pepper; spread the farce over, and roll them up, to about the size of a finger; bread them twice, the last time with egg, and fry them; drain, and serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Leverets (Fillets) Timrte of.—Cut the meat off the leveret into small pieces, each of which roll in grated bacon, salt and pepper; prepare your crust, lay n little butter on it; then put the meat with more butter, a slice of ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and lay slices of bacon over the whole; cover and bake the tourte,- when I done, open it, take out the bacon, ham, j and herbs; make a sauce with the bones i and some cullis, pour it in, lay on the top of the tourte, and serve it. Leveret (Gravy of).*—Cut some bacon , into dice, put it into a saucepan with some small onions, mushrooms, parsley, thin . slices of veal, a little pepper and salt, a glass of stock, the same of white wine, , two tarragon leaves, and a little lemon; ;; lay a leveret cut in pieces on these; . cover the saucepan close, and let it stand i for three or four hours on a slow fire; then 11 take out the leveret, cut the meat from • the bones, press out all the gravy until ! I nothing remains but the dry fibres; take off whatever fat may be on it, and strain the gravy for use. LIAISON. — Thickening it is usually done with the yolks of eggs, and some- times mixed with cream. LIQUORICE Paste.—Scrape and bruise i a quarter of a pound of liquorice-root, and i boil it in a little water, till it is much re- I duced; let it stand to settle, and pour it clear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce of gum dragon ; when thoroughly dissolved, sift it in a linen bag, and mix sugar with it till it is brought to the consistence of a paste ; then cut it into what flowers or de- signs you think proper. LIVERS in Caul.—Take the lean livers ' of pullets, capons, geese, turkies, Ac., with marrow, and bacon, veal sweetbreads, | mushrooms, and truffles, some lean dressed ham, some onion and parsley; when it is well minced, mix it with yolks of eggs to bind it; take the caul of a calf or sheep, j and cut it into pieces, according to the size you would have them; lay some of the farce on the piece of caul, and a fat liver upon that, then some more forcemeat, then another liver, then forcemeat, and so on till you have laid all; put the caul on a sheet of paper, and fry it in boiling lard, or bake them in an oven in a pasty pan: when they are done, drain away the fat, lay them in a dish, warm a little gravy, sea- son with salt and pepper, and pour it over the livers ; add a squeeze of orange or le- mon juice, and serve. Livers (Collops of fat).*—Pound some fat livers with beef and marrow, fine herbs shred small, salt, and spices; mix them together with cream, or yolks ot eggs; roll out some puff" paste, cut, fill, and finish the collops in the same manner as pates of leveret. . , Livers (Fat) Garniture.*—Take six tatLIV 333 LIV livers, from which take the bitter parts, trim them carefully, so that they do not burst; then lay them in water to get rid of the blood, and scald them the same as cocks’ combs; stew the livers between slices of bacon, in a rich mairepoix ; when done, lay them aside till wanted for gar- niture. Liver (Faf) Loaf.*—Weigh a pound of fat livers, ten ounces of panada, and eight of fresh butter, or grated bacon ; pound the panada, then add the butter to it, and pound them together ; take them out of the mortar, in which pound the livers, after a time put the other ingredients to it, and beat the whole well for a quarter of an hour, mixing with it, by degrees, the yolks of five eggs, an ounce of spiced salt, two spoonsful of fine herbs, done up in butter, and one of veloute ; rub this farce through a quenelle sieve into a pan ; add to it two ounces of calfs udder, two of tongue, a Vicariate, and two truffles all cut into dice ; line a plain circular mould with thin slices of bacon, make them very smooth, and put the farce into it. Liver (Fat) Toasts.—Make a farce with some bread soaked in cream, truffles, one or two fat livers, marrow, shalots, all well | pounded, and mixed with shred parsley, pepper, salt, and eggs ; cut some slices of crumb of bread, about half an inch thick; spread the farce on, of the same thickness as the bread, smooth them with a knife dipped in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and fry them; serve with any clear sauce under them. Livers (Taurte of fat).—Put the crust upon a pie-dish in the usual manner, and I lay pounded bacon at the bottom; season the livers and place them on the bacon; cover them with butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, one slice of ham, and a few of bacon; cover, and bake it. The ham, bacon, and herbs must be taken out when it is done, drain off the fat, and pour a ragout of cocks’-combs in, and serve. Livers (Fish) Toasts.—Mince the livers of any kind of fish, andhaving mixed them with shred parsley, shalots and capers, peppei and salt, set it on the fire with a bit of butter, and let it simmer for some time; in the mean time take some slices of crumb of bread, cut them into what shape you please, fry them in butter, and when the livers are cold, spread the preparation on the bread with fillets of anchovies laid J m cross-bars over it; baste them with melted butter, strew bread crumbs over, place them on a baking plate, and bake them for half an hour. Serve the toasts with melted butter and lemon juice. Livers u'ith Mushrooms.—Take the livers of any sort of tame fowls, and when they are cleared from the galls, put bards of bacon at the bottom of a baking-pan, and lay the livers upon them ; season the livers and cover them with bards of bacon ; bake them in a moderately heated oven; wash and pick some mushrooms, dry them over a stove, then lay them in a dish with a little bacon and vinegar; then toss some slices of ham in boiling lard, with a bunch of savory, and a pinch of flour; moisten it with some veal gravy; when the mush- rooms and livers are well drained, boil them in the same sauce, skim off the fat and serve them up hot. Liver and Parsley Sauce. — Wash the liver (which should be quite fresh) of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it for ten minutes in five table spoonsful of water; chop it fine, or pound or bruise it in a small quan- tity of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve; wash about one-third its bulk of parsley leaves, boil them in a little boiling water with a tea spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and chop it very fine ; mix it with the liver, and put it into a quarter of a pint of melted butter, and warm it up ; do not let it boil. Livers au lingo nt.— [ ake the liver of a turkey and the livers of half a dozen fowls, clean them, and take the greatest care not to bleak the galls, for if the livers are bit- ter the dish will be spoiled ; put them into cold water, and then put the livers of the fowls into a saucepan, with rather more than a quarter of a pint of gravy, a spoon- ful of ketchup, a spoonful of pickled mush- rooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper; stew them gently ten or twelve minutes; nicely broil the turkey’s liver, lay it in the middle of the dish, place the stewed liver round it, and pour the sauce over. Liver Sauce. — Take the livers of poultry, or game, chop them very small, with parsley, scallions, tarragon leaves and shalots. Soak them in a little butter over the fire, and then pound them ; add cullis stock, pepper and salt; give the whole a boil with two glasses of red wine coriander, cinnamon, and sugar; reduce and strain it.. Thicken with a bit of butter rolled in flour. Serve it in a sauce-boat. Liver Sauce for boiled Chickens.—Boil the livers till you can bruiso them with the back of a spoon, mix them in a littleLOB 334 LOB of tlie liquor they were boiled in; melt some butter very smooth and put it to them; add a little grated lemon peel, and boil all up together. LIVERNOISE.—This sauce is only a Macedoine, made with espagnole instead of bdchamelle; reduce a few carrots and turnips to a glaze, and add them to the espagnole, taldng care that it does not boil. LOAF a la Ducliesse.—Blanch and pound two ounces of pistachio nuts, half a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of dried lemon chips, and half a pound of sugar: when all these are reduced to a paste, mix it with the. yolks of six eggs, add the whites well beaten ; form it into the shape of a loaf, place it in a buttered dish, and bake it in a slow oven : when done, glaze, and strew nonpariels over it. Loaf (Spanish').—Scoop out the crumbs from half a dozen crusty rolls, and fill them with any sort of cream you may think proper; soak them in Spanish wine for a short time; sprinkle flour over and fry them; glaze them before they are sent to table. Loaf en Surprise.—Scoop out the crumb from a crusty French roll, dry the crust a minute in the oven, glaze and replace it to dry; when cold, fill it with blancmange; put it on ice, and when the blancmange is quite firm, place it on a dish for table. This should be done either with one large French brick, or three or four rolls. LOBSTERS (to choose).—The heaviest are considered the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. If they are quite fresh, the claws null have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. When you buy them ready boiled, try whether their tails are stiff and pull up with a spring, otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster may be distinguished from the hen by the narrow back part of the tail, and the two upper- most fins within it are stiff and hard ; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally die smallest, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and die colour when boiled is a deeper red. They come in about April, and remain in season till the oysters return. Hon lobsters are preferred for sauces, on account of their coral. Lobsters (to boil).—Put on a fish-kettle, witli water salted in the proportion of a table spoonful of salt to a quart ot water, and when it boils put in the lobster, and keep it boiling briskly half an hour, ac- cording to the size of the lobster; wipe off all the scum from it, and rub the shell with a very little butter or sweet oil; break off the great claws, crack them carefully in each joint, so that they may not be shat- tered, and yet come to pieces easily; cut the tail down the middle, and send up the body whole. Lobsters (Broiled).—When the lobsters are boiled, split their tails and chines, crack the claws, pepper and salt them; take out their bodies, and what is called the lady; then put them again into the shell, and then on the gridiron over a clear fire, also the tails and claws; baste them with butter, and serve them with melted butter for sauce. Lobsters (Buttered).—Boil them, take out the meat, mince it, put to it a little gravy, the inside of the lobster, and the spawn bruised; add a very little white wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon peel grated, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon juice, and a small piece of glaze; stir this together, let it boil up; quarter the chine, season it with pepper and salt, and broil it; lay it on the dish on the rest. But the most approved way is neatly to trim the shells, and fill them with the above preparation; strew bread crumbs on the top, drop some clarified butter on the crumbs, and brown them witli a salamander. Garnish with sliced lemon. Lobster Cake.—Pound the meat of two boiled lobsters with the lean of raw ham, some beef marrow, the yolks of four eggs, a bit of bread soaked in cream, a little mace pounded, cayenne pepper, and salt. Colour the whole with lobster spawn; then line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, press down the mixture into it, cover with bards of bacon, and put on tbe cover of the mould; and then put it into the oven, let it bake an hour and a half, and let it stand till cold ; turn it out of the mould, take the fat away, and serve the cake up, either modelled or plain, with some savorv jelly round it. Lobsters (Currie of).—Take fnemfrom their shells, divide into neat portions, and lay them in a pan ; make a liquor for them thus: Slice two large onions, lightly fry them; add about four tea spoonsful of curry powder, some flour and butter for thick- ening, and a pint of good gravy, together with the bodies of the lobsters pounded ; boil for half an hour, skim, and pass it through a tammy cloth or fine sieve, into your lobsters, add lemon and salt; simmerLOB 335 LOB half an hour, and just before serving- add two spoonsful of cream.; then serve Lot with plain boiled rice. Lobsters in an Italian Salad.—Take two lobsters, cut them in pieces by taking off tlie claws and tail, each of which split in two; tire spawn rub through a dry sieve to garnish the salad, made in the following manner: Wash two or three cabbage let- tuces, take away the stalks, cut them in large shreds, slice a beet-root and a cucum- ber; wash, pick, and cut into long shreds, four anchovies, chop some tarragon and j chervil, two boiled eggs, the yolks and whites chopped separately; if you have ' any cauliflowers or'French beans, boil and put them with the other things to garnish: having every thing prepared, place the lettuces in the centre of the dish in a heap, and place the lobster and other things ac- cording- to your taste, and just before you serve, garnish it with Italian salad sauce. Lobsters (to marinate).—Halfboil them, take out the meat and lard the tails with a salted eel: then cut the tails longways, and fry them in oil; make a sauce with white vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, sliced ginger, parsley, sage, winter sa- vory, sweet marjoram, the tops of rose- mary and thyme, and some bay leaves : dish the lobsters, and pour the sauce over them; lay upon them three lemons cut in slices, and run it all over with butter. Lobster Patties.—Sheet your patty pans with puff paste, and put a small piece of crumb of bread into each; then cover them with more paste, trim round the pan, brush the tops of the paste with egg, and ■ bake them of a light colour. When baked, take out the bread, and when you serve fill them with the following : let the lob- sters be half boiled, chop the meat, add to it a little good consomme of veal, a little flour, butter, lemon juice, Cayenne, and salt, a shalot chopped very fine, and an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, then simmer over the fire about five minutes: if preferred add a little good cream to it. I When they are to be served, take out the bread and fill them with lobster chopped : I add to them a little strong consomme of veal, a small quantity of flour, lemon juice, Cay- enne pepper, a bit of lemon peel, a shalot chopped fine, an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, and mixed over the fire for five minutes. The lobsters should be half boiled before they are chopped for the patties. Lobster (Petits Pdtes of).— Having made your cases as directed in page 391, mince your lobster and put to it some be- chamel, season with lemon, Cayenne and salt, a shalot chopped fine, and a little nutmeg; fill the cases, and send very hot. Lobsters (to pickle).—Boil your lob- sters in vinegar, white wine, and salt; then take them up, and put into the liquor all sorts of sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and mace ; then put in the lobsters again, boil them all together; when completely done, take them out and put them into a barrel or vessel just large enough to hold them ; pour the liquor over them, and set them by for use. Lobster Pie.—Boil two or three lob- sters, take the meat out of the tails, and cut it into pieces. Then take out all the spawn, and the meat from the claws; beat it well in a mortar, and season it with pepper, salt, two spoonsful of vinegar, and a little anchovy liquor. Melt half a pound of fresh butter with some bread crumbs grated very fine, and the yolks of ten eggs. Put a good puff paste over the dish, lay in the tails, and then add the rest of the meat on them. Put on the lid, and bake it in a slow oven. Lobsters (Potted).—Take out the meat as whole as you can, split the tail, and re- move the gut; if the inside is not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves, in the finest powder. Put a little butter at the bottom of the pan, and the lobsters smooth over it, with bay leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake it gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom, of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting jars, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over it, but not hot; it will be good the day after it is done, and if very highly seasoned and thick covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassde, with cream sauce. Lobster a la Remoulade.*—Break the shell, open the back, take out all the in- side, and put it into a china basin, mix a dessert-spoonful of mustard, parsley, and slialots, shred small, salt, pepper, and the coral : stir these together well, with some oil and vinegar; put your lobster on a dish, and the above mixture or remoulade in a sauce-boat. Lobster (Roasted).—More than half boil it, take it out of the water ; while hot.336 LOB MAC rub it well with butter, put it in a Dutch oven, baste it well till nicely frothed; 6erve with melted butter. Lobster Sauce.—Put the coral or spawn of a lobster into a mortar, with a bit of butter, and well pound it; then rub it through a fine hair seive ; put some melted butter into a stewpan, and the coral of the lobster: stir it on the fire till it looks per- fectly smooth and red, if not smooth pass it through a tammy : then put in the meat of the lobster, cut into small dice; make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon juice and anchovy essence, and serve it to table. Lobster Sauce.—Having taken the lady out of the lobsters, pound the bodies and boil in water for twenty minutes, strain and make the melted butter with the li- quor ; pound the coral, pour upon it two spoonsful of gravy ; strain it into some melted butter ; then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon. You may, if you choose, add two anchovies pounded. Lobster in a Savory Jelly.—Make a good aspic jelly; being very clear, and the mould ready in ice, half fill it with the jelly, and when it is set, lay some ancho- vies, shredded fine, in what form you please, on the jelly, then your lobster; cut the same as for salad, over it; fill the mould with the remainder of the jelly, and when set serve it for a second course, entree, or a supper dish. Lobster (JLmincee) in the Shell.*—Cut the lobster in two, without breaking the shell, take out all the meat, and cut it into dice ; take out all the inside of the lobster and clean the shell. Put two spoonsful of veloute, a little butter, salt, and Cayenne pepper, into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire : when quite hot, put in the minced meat, and the inside; and pour the whole together into the shell; smooth it over with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, baste it with clarified butter, make it very hot, and colour it with a salamander. Lobster (Small Timbales of).—Take the white meat from a couple of small lobsters, cut it into dice ; mix two spoonsful of be- chamelle with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little shred parsley, a tea-spoon- ful of cavice, and half a spoonful of elder vinegar; make it hot, but not boiling ; put in the lobster, season with pepper and salt, fill some small timbale moulds with this, and serve hot. Lobster Soup.—Boil three fine young hen lobsters; when cold, split the tails, take out the meat, crack the claws, and cut the meat into pieces; take out the coral and soft parts of the body, bruise part of the coral in a mortar, pick out the meat from the chines, bruise part of it with‘the coral, and with this make force- meat balls, seasoned with mace or nut- meg, grated lemon peel, anchovy, and Cayenne ; pound these with the yolk of an Have three quarts of veal stock; bruise the small legs and the chine, and put them into the stock to boil for twenty minutes; then strain it, and to thicken it, take the ; fresh coral and bruise it in a mortar with a little butter and flour, rub it through a , sieve, and put it to the soup with the meat t of the lobsters and the remaining coral; let it simmer very gently for ten minutes; : do not let it boil, or its fine red colour will immediately fade ; pour it into a i tureen, add the juice of a lemon, and a , little essence of anchovy. Lobsters (to stew).—Put the lobster'I into a stewpan, with vinegar, claret, but- • ter, suet, and nutmeg ; stew it rather dry, .! and then take it up and lay it in a dish; ; pour butter over it, and garnish with i j slices of lemon. Lobster (Stewed) a very high relish.— Pick the lobster from the shell, and put : the coral into a dish that has a lamp, and 1 rub it down with a bit of butter, two > spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy, • i or walnut ketchup, a small quantity of salt . and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the lobster, cut into bits, in the gravy as above. M. MACARONI*—Put a piece of butter, half a pound of macaroni, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little salt, into hot water; boil them till tender, take it out and drain it well. Put it into another saucepan with two ounces of butter, three of grated Parmesan cheese, four of Gru- yere, also grated, a little pepper, and nut- meg ; toss up the whole together, adding two or three spoonsful of cream; and when done, put it on a dish, and serve it very hot. Macaroni dressed sweet. — Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of milk, v it 1 a bit of lemon peel, and a good bit of cin- namon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking, Layt >em on a custard dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold.337 MAC MAC Macaroni an Gratia.*—Cay fried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your ma- caroni in the usual way, and pour it into the disk; smooth it all over, and strew bread crumbs on it, then a pretty thick layer of grated Parmesan cheese; drop a little melted butter on it, and colour it with a salamander. Macaroni a la Napolitaine.*—Boil two pounds of macaroni for half an hour, in salt and water; then put it into a cullender to drain. Take three quarters of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated; put a layer of macaroni in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alternately, till both are used up, mail- ing the Parmesan the top; pour over it some gravy, a Idtouffade ; melt half a pound of fresh butter, and put on the whole. Serve it very hot. Macaroni aui Parmesan.—Having boiled your macaroni in the usual way and well drained it, make a thick sauce with half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, a quar- ter of a pound of fresh butter, two spoons- ful of bechamel, and a little cream; stir till it boils and is well mixed ; add a little salt and some mixed mustard; throw your ma- caroni into it, simmer, and toss the pan so as to well cover and mix the ingredients, and serve very hot. Macaroni and Parmesan Cheese Soup.— Take a quarter of a pound of macaroni, boil it till tender in a quart of veal stock; then add three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little pounded mace, five pints more of veal stock ; boil all together five minutes, and rub it through a tammy; then boil it again for ten minutes, skim it, season it with salt and Cayenne pepper to the palate; and add a liaison with the yolks of four eggs, and some cream. Macaroni (Pottage of ).*—Take half a pound of macaroni, break it in small pieces, boil and drain it, dress it in a consomme, similar to that for mock turtle soup ; pour it into your tureen, and serve grated Parmesan separately. Macaroni Pudding.—Take an ounce or two ol the pipe sort of macaroni, and simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, three eggs, but only one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of almond water, and half a glass of raisin wine ; lay a nice paste round the edge of the dish, and put it in the oven to bake. if you choose you may put in a layer of orange marmalade or raspberry jam : in this case you must not put in the almond water, or ratafia, you would otherwise add to flavour it. Macaroni (to Serve').—Simmer it in a little stock, with pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate over it a good deal of cheese, then over that put bread grated very fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen cullender all over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separate crumbs, and look light. / Macaroni (to Serve).—Wash it well, and simmer it in half milk, and half of veal or mutton stock, till the macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful of the liquor, put to it the yolk of an egg, beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over it, and add bits of butter; brown it nicely with the salamander. Macaroni Soup.—Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till it is quite tender; then take out half, and put it into another stewpan. To the re- mainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. Then put it to the two liquors, adding a pint or more of boiling- hot cream, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Par- mesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil; serve it with the crust of Trench roll, cut into small pieces. Macaroni (Steuied).—Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till nearly done ; then strain it, and add a gill ot cream, two ounces of butter, a table spoonful of the essence of bam, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little Cayenne pepper and salt; mix them over a fire for five minutes, then put it on a dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over it, smooth it over with a knife, and colour it with a very hot salamander. Macaroni (Timbale of').*—Take some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow bands; twist each into a kind of cord, which place round the insides of buttered moulds, snail fashion ; fill each mould with macaroni, cover the tops with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of each) ; put the timbales into a warm oven, and bake them three quarters of an hour; then turn them on a dish, and serve. zMAC MAC 338 Macau on (Timbale of au Chasseur) *— Prepare the macaroni as for the timbale, putting filets of larlcs, dressed in espagnole travaillt, and a fumet of game, instead of the veloute and gravy. The rest of the operation is the same as timbale of macaroni. Macaroni (Timbale of, a la Mariniere).* —Cut the filets of a middling sized sole, and fry them lightly in butter; blanch two carp roes, and take about a dozen very red cray-fish tails ; prepare your macaroni as directed (see Timbale of Macaroni'), with the addition ipf two spoonsful of bdchamel mature, and four ounces of cray-fish butter, and only half the usual quantity of plain butter. When done, put about a quarter of it in the timbale, and on it the two carp roes, half the cray-fish tails, and as many fine white mushrooms ; cover these with a third of the macaroni, upon which lay the filets of sole, the remainder of the tails, and six white mushrooms. Pour the rest of the macaroni on this, and finish as di- rected. See the recipe above mentioned. Macaroni Tourte au Z£phyr.— Scald about half a pound of macaroni; drain, and then boil it in some good stock; when quite tender, add to it a proper quantity of grated Parmesan cheese and veal cul- lis, put it into a toute au s£phyr (see the article), and serve. MACAROONS. — Take a pound of sweet almonds blanched, and nicely pound- ed, add a little rose-water to prevent their oiling ; add a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites of ten eggs to a solid froth, and add to the above; beat all together for some time. Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop the mix- ture over it separately, the size of a shil- ling, or smaller; sift over them a little sugar, and bake them. Macaroons Bitter Ice Cream.*—Take a quarter of a pound of bitter macaroons, pound them, and having prepared the cream, eggs, and sugar, in the usual way (see Ice Cream) ; add the macaroon powder, boil, strain, and finish, as therein directed. Macaroons Filled.*—Take some sweet macaroon paste, and lay the cakes ou water, quite round; when all are done, have a round stick (about an inch in dia- meter), and make a hollow in the centre ol each ; bake them as usual, till yellow’, and crisp; then take them out, and put in the hollows preserved cherries, raspberries, or some jelly; and instead of detaching the macaroons from the paper, cut it closo round the edges. Macaroon Filled (Tart of).*—Cement together as many sheets of wafer paper as will be sufficient to cut a piece the size of a dish ; spread over its surface sweet ma- caroon paste, about a quarter of an inch thick ; on this place a border of almond shaped macaroons round the edge; then lay them in diagonal lines over the whole; cross these again, so as to form a treillis over the surface, taking care to make the points touch neatly; when the whole is covered, put it on a tin in a moderate oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour; then take it out, and garnish the spaces betw’een the macaroons writh various preserved fruits. Macaroons a la Fortugaise.*—Take six ounces of potatoe flour, a pound of sweet almonds, a pound and a quarter of sugar, and the w’hites of twelve eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds; beat the eggs to a snow, then mix them writh the almonds, add afterwards the sugar and flour; beat the whole up well, and put the prepara- tion into small paper cases, and bake them like other biscuits. Macaroons (Sweet).*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, throw' them into cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a nap- kin to dry, and leave them for twenty-four hours; at the end of that time, pound them, a handful at a time, adding occasion- ally some white of egg, till the whole is reduced to a fine paste; then take two pounds of the best lump sugar, pound and sift it, then put it to the almonds, with the grated rinds of two lemons; beat these in- gredients together in the mortar, adding, one at a time, as many eggs as you find ne- cessary to moisten the paste, which should be thin, but not too much so, as in that case it would run ; your paste being ready, take out a little in a spoon, and lay the maca- roons on sheets of white paper, either round or oval, as you please ; lay them at least an inch apart, because they spread in halving, and if put nearer would touch. The whole of your paste being used, place the sheets of paper on tins in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. This kind of cake requires great care and attention ; it will be well therefore to take notice of the following rules : 1. 1 o mind that the almonds are perfectly dry before you begin to pound them. 2. 1 ake g[r®8t care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed with the white of egg, which would en- tirely spoil the colour of the macaroons, and prevent their rising in the oven , to avoid this, open each separately, and ifMAC MAC 339 perfectly fresh, divide the yolk and white with great care. 3. The oven must be no more than moderately heated, nothing' being more liable to bum than almonds and sugar; by the least negligence in this re- spect, the surface would be burned, whilst the inside would remain unbaked. The best method to obviate any mischief of this sort: Put two or three macaroons into the oven to try it; leave them in the usual time; and if, when you take them out, they are of a clear yellow, the oven is pro- perly heated, and the whole of the maca- roons may then be put in. Macaroons (Spiced).*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, and two pounds of sifted sugar-; make your paste as usual, to which add a spoonful of powdered cinnamon, six or eight cloves, also pounded, some pre- served lemon and orange peel (of each a spoonful), chopped small, and the grated rind of two lemons ; mix them all together in'the mortar, and then lay your macaroons as usual, and bake them with equal care. Macaroons (Spiced) Tart of.*—Join to- gether as many sheets of wafer paper with water as you may judge necessary, cut it to the size of a dish ; lay it on a sheet of whitepaper, cover it with the spiced maca- roon paste, about an inch thick; put it in the oven, and bake it of a clear brown. In the mean while, boil a quarter of a pound or six ounces of sugar with some oran°-e- ilower water, until, on dipping the skimmer into, and shaking it in the air, the sugar flies off in small bottle-shaped pieces;°as soon as the tart is baked, pour the sugar- over it pretty thickly; replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, which should re- semble icing; in a few minutes take it out and lay it in a large dish. MACEDOINE.*—Take as many car- rots and turnips as you think necessary, turn them neatly, blanch and boil them in a little consomme; reduce them to a jelly. Take the following vegetables : young peas' and beans, French beans, cut into lozen- ges, cauliflowers, artichoke bottoms, cu- cumbers, asparagus heads, small onions and white mushrooms; blanch all these separately, and a quarter of an hour before dinner, make them quite hot, and then dram them on a cloth ; in the mean time, reduce some allemande, add to it the jelly of roots, keep them boiling, put in the roots and vegetables, with a little sugar and fresh butter ; stir them together until the sauce adheres to the vegetables. The mactdoine Js generally used to garnish the removes of soups. Macedoine d la Bdchamelle*—Prepare carrots, turnips, small onions, peas, aspa- lagus, bread, and French beans, artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. &c.,inthe same manner as the macedoine; when they are all done in their appropriate seasoning, drain them very dry, and put them into a saucepan, and pour on them a reduced bccbamel; shake them all up together, that the sauce may be thoroughly incorporated It teiboif ‘ p il Maoedcune-0/ Fruit. The macedoine is an ornamental dish, composed of trans- parent jelly, with various fruits enclosed in it ; for this purpose it should be done as follows : Have a dome-shaped mould, six inches and a half in diameter, and four in height, the sides fluted; the smaller mould must be of a similar form, but only fourinches and a half in diameter, and two Jiave To"00! qTen Mgh ’ to this latter have four handles, bent at the end, to ban- it exactly in the centre of the larger mould" iepai-e a strawberry transparent jelly place the larger mould as straight as pos- mb em pounded ice, hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly into the former - whilst it is congealing, pick about twenty fine white strawberries, the same number of very red ones, the same of white rasp! samT nfa ^ bunches of red- and the same °f white currants; wash all these well, buttouch them as little as possible, that y may not lose their freshness : when. *’leje ly is Perfectly set, pour some hot water into the small mould which will en- able you to remove it with ease; raise it great care, so that the space may be found without the slightest flaw {hen place on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two bunches of white currants sura round these with a rino- 0f white fi. berries and the latter with a crown orriiw of white raspberries ; pour over very care’ fully two or three spoonsful of the7 jelly and when that is congealed, proceed in berries'a7 Wlth the red currants, straw- ESS b' i„ land of frmt you think pronor Tt , ^ also be filled with two jellies as follows^ “i- s-t z 2MAC MAC 340 moulds may be varied in any way your fancy may dictate. MACKEREL {to Choose).—Their gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, and the whole fish stiff and bright; if the gills are of a faint colour, the fish limber and wrinkled, they are not fresh. They are in season in May and June. Mackerel {Boiled).—Boil them in salt and water, with a very little vinegar. Serve with fennel sauce and coddled goose- berries. Mackerel with Black Butter.*—1 he mackerel for this dish should he dressed according to the directions for mackerel grilld; dish them; then put a piece of butter into a frying pan, and when it is quite hot, fry some parsley in it, and pour them over the fish ; heat up some vinegar, and pour that over also. Mackerel {Broiled or Fried).—They may he broiled or fried, and are extremely good either way, stuffed with crumbs of bread, parsley chopped, lemon peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mixed with yolk of e°'g ; anchovy sauce and fennel sauce, Mackerelcji Cailles.—Cut two or three mackerel, each into three pieces, give them a few turns over the fire in butter, with parsley, slialots, mushrooms, pepper and salt, then wrap each piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon and some of the sea- soning ; lay them on a baking dish, pour the remainder of the seasoning over, put them in the oven ; when nearly done, take them out, cover them with bread crumbs; replace the dish to finish the baking. Serve w'itli wine sauce. Mackerel {Collared).—They may be done in the same manner as eels are done, only the sage should be omitted, and sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and lemon peel, substituted in its place. Mackerel, en Compote.*—Prepare the mackerel, cut off the tails, and put them into a small saucepan well buttered, with any common fish you may have, and an- chovy and white wine ; braise them in this ; when done, serve them with their own liquor. Mackerel (to Dry).—Theymustbe very fresh. Gut and wash them very clean, cut off their heads, split them down the back, and lay them quite flat; bang them by their tails to drain; they should be hung in a very cool place. Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan; sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, lay them in the pan, belly to belly, and back to back ; let them lie in the salt twelve or fourteen hours, then wash the salt off clean, and hang them up to drain for half an hour, pepper the insides a little, and lay them to dry on stones laid aslant towards the sun ; take care never to let them be out when the sun is not upon them, nor till the dews are dispersed, as the stones they are laid upon should be warm and dry. They will be perfectly- cured in a week; hang them up by their tails, putting their insides together, in a dry place, but not in any smoke. They should'be either filed in boiling; oil, or broiled on or before a very clear fire, and basted with oil on a feather. No sauce will berequired, for if they are good, they, will be very moist and mellow ; if they should be dry, you may serve with a little melted butter and parsley, or crimped i parsley. Mackerel, {Broiled).—Split your mack- erel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel in them. . Broil them gently, and when ready to serve, take out the fennel, and put in its • place a mixture, made with fresh butter, chopped parsley, green onions, pepper and salt; add plenty of lemon juice. Mackerel {Fillets of) Saute.—Cut the fillets the whole length of the fish, take off : the skin, trim and put them into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions 5 shred small; pour a little melted butter r over, and set them on the fire, moving the pieces about lest tbey should adhere to the pan, turn them very carefully, and do the other side. Take a good bit ot butter, a ladleful of veloute, the yolks of three eggs,. the juice of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, a ravigotle chopped small: stir it over the fire (but without boiling) till the right consistence, then pour it over the fillets. Mackerel {Filletstf) Saute a l Italienue. The fillets being taken off, cut them in two, taking off the skin, and put them into a cutlet pan (previously toss them in egg, and rub over with bread crumbs), with cla- rified butter, a little water, the juice of half a lemon, and a sprinkle of salt; saute them over a moderate fire, and when done, put them between two plates, to drain the liquor from them; place them on the dish in the form of a star, and pour over them some good Italienue sauce. Mackerel {Fillets of) to he served cold. —Saute and dish the fillets, the same as the fillets saute a Vltalienne, but let them stand till cold, and before they are wanted, pour over them a remouladc sauce, or they raa) be served in a salad, the same as salmon. Mackerel a la Flamande. C oo341 MAC MAC three good sized and very fresh mackerel, take out the entrails through the gills, tie up the head, cutoff the end of the tail, but do not open tire back. Work up some shalots, parsley, and scallions (chopped very small), with a piece of butter; add salt, pepper, and lemon juice; stuff the body of the fish, and roll each in a sheet of but- tered paper, tie the two ends tight, rub the paper with oil, and broil them for three quarters of an hour over a very clear fire. When done, take them out of the paper, dish, and pour over them the butter con- tained in the cases and lemon juice. Mackerel en Fricandeaux.—Take the skin from one side of the mackerel, lard, and put the fish into a braising pan, with a few slices of veal, ham, equal quantities of broth and white wine (let the veal be nearly done before you put in the mackarel) ; set the pan on a slow fire, and in a few minutes, add a few mushrooms, and a bunch of sweet kerbs; when the fish are sufficiently done take them out, strain and reduce the sauce to a glaze, with which do the larded side ; put a little butter to the remainder, and serve it under the fish. Mackerel (Fried).—Cut your mackerel, each into eight pieces, which soak for half an hour in lemon juice, pepper, and salt; wipe them perfectly dry, dip each piece in wine batter, and fry them dry; serve with fried parsley. Mackerel the German way.—Split them down the back, and season them with pep- per and salt; broil them, and serve with the following sauce: Pick and wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and green Onions; but use only a small quantity of each. Boil them tender in a little veal stock; then chop them up, and add to them some fresh butter, the liquor they were boiled in, some grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt. Let it boil, thicken it with flour, and serve in a sauce boat. Mackerel (Glazed).*—Clean and dry the fish as usual, lard them with streaked bacon, put them into a stewpan, with two slices of veal, sweet herbs, pour some court bouillon on them; stew them; when done, take them out, reduce the liquor, and glaze your fish with it. Mackerel (Grille).*—Clean, empty, and wipe your fish as usual; split them up the back, rub them with a little butter; mix some bread crumbs and shred parsley, cover the mackerel with this, and broil them ; when of a nice colour serve them with the following sauce: Put some shred parsley.a small quantity of oil, salt, pepper, and lemon juice into melted butter; stir them up together, and make it quite hot. Mackerel d l’Italienne*—Prepare your mackerel the same as for la Flamande ; put them into a stewpan with half a bottle of white wine, some slices of onions and carrots, parsley, half a bay leaf, and salt to the taste; stew them in this till done ; then drain and serve them with a white Italienne. Mackerel a la Maitre d' Hotel*—Three mackerel are quite sufficient for this dish; take out the entrails, and having wiped the fish -with a wet cloth, split it open along the back, from head to tail; lay them in a deep dish with salt, whole pepper, scallions, and parsley; pour a sufficient quantity of oil on them to soak them well. Half an hour before dinner, place them on a gridiron over a gentle fire, and broil them on both sides. Put a piece of butter into a sauce- pan with a dessert- spoonful of flour, pars - ley, and scallions, shred small, pepper, and salt; mix them well, and then add a glass of water and the juice of a lemon ; set this over the fire, stirring till it boils, when it may be poured over tbe mackerel. Mackerel d la Maitre d’Hotel, another way.—Prepare three mackerel, and cut each one into four fillets, place them on a buttered saute pan, sprinkle them with fine herbs chopped, Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice; when done enough, be careful in dishing them to detach the skin, and mask them with a maitre d’hotel sauce, with the addition of chopped fennel in it. Mackerel (Pickled).—Clean and divide them; then cut each side into three, or leaving them undivided, cut each side into five or six pieces. To six large mack- erel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder; mix all together, and make holes in each bit of fish, and put the seasoning into them ; rub each piece of fish with some of the seasoning; then fry them brown in oil; let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar ; if you intend to keep them for some time, pour oil on the top of the jars. In this manner they may be preserved for months. Mackerel (Potted).—They are potted in the same manner as eels. Mackerel (Roasted).* — Soak throe mackerel in a marinade of oil, with scal- lions, parsley, and shalots, all chopped; season it with salt and popper; when theyMAG 342 MAI have laid in this for half an hour, fasten the mackerel to a spit, roast them before a small lire, basting with melted butter; just before they are done, strew bread crumbs over ; iinisli and serve them with any fish sauce you please. Mackerel (soft Roes of) en Cciisses.— Take the soft roes from half a dozen broiled mackerel, put them into paper cases with shred parsley, raspings, butter, salt, and pepper. Bake them, and when done, serve them with lemon juice. Mackerel (soft Roes of) Petits-p&tes.— Take the soft roes from four mackerel; put them into a pan with clarified butter, sufficient to cover them; then put the pan into an oven; when done, take them out, drain, and cut them into dice, which put into petits-pdtes ; keep them hot, and just before they are sent to table put into each some of the following sauce • Reduce two Spoonsful of veloutf and one of consomme, then add a little butter and thick cream, season with pepper and salt, and pour it in quite hot. Mackerel (Soused).—Thoroughly wash and clean them; take out the roes, boil them in salt and water; when they are done, take them out, and lay them in a deep dish; pour away half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the rest of the liquor as much vinegar as will cover them, with two or three bay leaves. They should lie two or three days before they are eaten. MADELAINES.*—Take nine ounces of powder sugar, eight of flour, the yolks of four and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of brandy, and a grain of salt; put these into a saucepan, stirring continually, until the paste thickens ; after which, stir only one minute; clarity ten ounces of good fresh butter, with which butter about two and thirty madelaine moulds; pour the remainder of the butter into your prepa- ration ; set it on a gentle stove, stir till it begins to become a liquid, take it off be- fore it has time to get too hot, put a little of this into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. Madelaines en Surprise.*'—Make your madelaines in the usual way; when cold, cut a thin slice from the bottom, take out nearly all the inside; pound four ounces of blanched filberts, mix them with eight spoonsful of apricot marmalade, which mixture put into the madelaines, and place the slice taken from the bottom, and serve them. MAGNONNAISE « la Ravigotte,*— Take of chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, each A a handful, and a little chibol, and having I picked and washed, scald them for five or • six minutes in boiling water with a little I salt in it; then let them cool, drain and I squeeze out all the water, and pound them i well, moistening with a spoonful of the I magnonnaise (see Magnonnaise, Tl'/iite); )■ strain this through a silk sieve, and mix it II witli a magnonnaise prepared as above ; if it be not sufficiently green, add a small quantity of essence of spinach. Magnonnaise ( White).*—Put into a pan the yolks of two eggs, a good pinch of salt, and the quarter of a dessert-spoon- I ful of tarragon vinegar ; take a wooden II spoon, stir them up quickly, and when it jl begins to thicken, add half a dessert- | spoonful of the best olive oil; as the sauce I continues to thicken, put in a few drops | of vinegar, then oil, and so on, still rapidly I stirring and rubbing the spoon against the ■ jg sides of the pan. In proportion as the | sauce gains consistence, increase, by de- [ grees, the quantity of oil and vinegar, and add a little aspic jelly; do not cease stir- ring until you have thus amalgated two glasses of oil, half a glass of aspic jelly, and as much vinegar as you find neces- I sary to render the sauce palatable ; when done, it should be of the consistence of thick cream, and equally smooth; keep it in a cool place till you want to use it. MAIDS.—They should hang up for one day at least. You may either broil or fry ! them. If they are of a tolerable size, you | may boil the middle part, and fry the fins. They should be dipped in egg, and covered i with bread crumbs. MAITRE D’HOTEL (Cold).*—Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a sauce- pan, with some parsley and slialots, minced small, salt, whole pepper, and lemon juice; mix the whole together with a wooden spoon. Pour the Maitre d’Hotel either over, under, or into whatever meat or fish you intend to serve, Maitre d’Hotel (Life).*—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful of flour, parsley, and scallions, chopped small, salt, whole pepper, and two ladiesful of slock; set it on the fire only just as it is wanted; stir it like a white sauce; if it be too thick, put in a little lemon juice and water; thicken with yolks of eggs. This sauce should be of the same con- sistence as while sauce. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. — Take three spoonsful of bechamel sauce, add to it two343 MAR MAR tea-spoonsful of finely shredded parsley, washed and dried in a towel, a little sha- lot, pepper, and salt; reduce this on the fire about seven minutes, add a little good cream, and two ounces of hutter, work it well in, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve immediately. MALLOWS (Syrup of).*—Take half a pound of mallows root, and having scraped and washed it well, cut it into small pieces, winch set on the fire with three pints of wal.er; when sufficiently boiled, the water will he glutinous, strain off the decoction, and pour it into four pounds of sugar; clarify it iu the same manner ascapillaire ; hoi it to lissf., run it through a jelly-bag, anc when cold, bottle it. HALT Vinegar.*—In Germany, this vinegar is made with barley and wheat malt, of both of which there are two sorts, oie dried in an oven or kiln, the other dred in the open air; of the latter the largest quantity is generally used. Put ten gallons of boiling water into a larje tub, stir it till it cools a little ; then adc your malt (two thirds barley, and one thiid wheat) a little at a time, stirring it wtli a stick until thoroughly mixed with th>. water; cover the tub. Boil some more wtter, take the mash from the bottom of thelarge tub, put it into a smaller one, anc place this within a larger one, so that the'e may be two inches space between thebottoms of each tub ; set another small tub on the top ; this latter should have hols pierced in it, through which pour the boiling water on the mash, beneath lay strav over, and leave it for an hour and a half; after that time, draw off the water by neans of a cock placed between the two tubs; then pour fresh boiling water over the malt, let it stand again, and repeat thisoperation as many times as you think necssary; the precise number must be reguatedaccording to the intended strength of tie vinegar. Pour the liquor into casks, and,vhen cold and settled, put it into a largi barrel with a head to it; add some beeilees, cover and leave it for ten hours to foment; as soon as it is clear, pour it intoa cask, previously washed with strong vingar, put to it some yeast; skim it wel, and you will then have vinegar of the besl quality. MARASCHINO.* — Take sixteen poinds of fine sharp cherries, stone and tak off the stalks; put them into five qurts of brandy to infuse, covered close for three days, then distil the infusion; disil also a pound of cherry leaves in six quarts of filtered river water, from which you will obtain about a gallon; dissolve in this four pounds and a half of fine sugar; add it to the liqueur, with two pints and a half of kirschenwasser, an ounce and four drachms of spirits of rose, the same of orange flowers, and three drachms of spirits of jessamine ; mix them, altogether, run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it; cork them well. Maraschino (Conserve of).* — Pound and sift some of the best lump sugar, mix it in a china basin with spirit of maras- chino, until it is of the consistence of pastil paste; then put it into a skillet over the fire, and beat it gently, stirring it con- stantly (but without letting it boil), till very liquid, when it may be poured into funnel-shaped tin moulds; put these moulds on iron plates, and dry the con- serve in a stove. Maraschino (Frontage Bavarnis).*—Boil a pint of double cream, to which add half a pound of sugar and six drachms of clari- fied isinglass ; run it through a sieve, and place it on ice; the moment it begins to congeal, pour in, by degrees, half a glass of maraschino; then stir in the whipped cream, and finish as usual. Maraschino Ice Cream* — Take two quarts of cream, twelve eggs, a pound of double-refined sugar, and three glasses of true maraschino; put the cream on to boil, and in the mean time whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm snow, then pour in eight yolks, and the sugar pounded and sifted, stir them together lightly, and then add by degrees the boiling cream, whipping continually; set it on the fire, and do not cease whipping until it has boiled up three or four times; pour it through a sieve into a basin, stirring a little to enable it to run more freely; when cold put it into the sor- betiere with the maraschino; cover it in- stantly, and ice it as usual. Maraschino (Souffles Franfais of).*— Your preparation being made as usual (soe Souffles Frangais), when the whites of eggs are put in, add half a glass of ma- raschino. MARCHPANE.*—Take four pounds of sweet almonds, throw them into boil- ing water, let them lay till the skin loosens, then put them into cold water, after a few minutes blanch and throw them again into cold water to wash them thoroughly. When dry, pound them (a handful at a time) to a very fine paste, moistening each handful with two spoonsful of water; the whole quantity of almonds being pounded, putMAR MAR 344 the paste into a large preserving pan, with four pounds of the best lump sugar finely- pounded and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, stir and work them up together with a large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the bottom; be very careful that none of the paste adheres to the pan ; the consequence of such neglect would be, that the march- pane would be spotted witli yellow, and would smell unpleasantly. Whilst work- ing it up, the paste, which when put in was tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, and a great deal of vapour may be observed; the first is caused by the sugar dissolved by the heat and moisture, the second by the evaporation of the wa- ter. Continue to stir and work it up in this manner without ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of that time, you can touch the paste without its adhering to your fingers, it is suificiently dried; in which case remove it all to one side of the pan, clean the bottom and side of the other, sprinkle it well with flour, then put the paste to that part, clean and sprinkle that side also; then take the pan by both ears and move it round and round, so that the paste may all unite together: as soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to use it immediately, on a well floured table. This paste, if the almonds be well pounded and then thoroughly dried, will keep good for six months; if these two precautions are not properly attended to, it will become sour in ten days. Marchpane Royal *—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and throw them into cold water, drain and pound them, moistening with orange flower and plain water, but take care not to put too much at once. The almonds being reduced to a paste, put them into a preserving pan with half a pound of powder sugar, set the pan on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, it no longer sticks to your finger, then take it out and place it on a plate or wafer paper, previously sprinkled with sugar: as soon as it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your hand to the size of your little finger; form them into rings, and lay them on iron gratings; glaze and put them into a brisk oven to colour. The above paste may also be employed as follows: roll it out and cut it in half, spread over one piece apricot marmalade, or any other preserve you please ; cover it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, crescents, &c., accord- ing to your fancy, lay them on the grating as above, glaze and colour them in a quick oven. MARIGOLDS (Conserve of).— 'fate four ounces of marigold flowers, conserve of hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachms; the powder of pearl, two ounces; and as much syrup of citron as will male them into a conserve, mixing and bruishg them together with refined sugar. MARINADE Quite*—Cut three crr- rots and four onions in slices, put tliam into a stewpan with some butter, two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves; f£t these on the fire; when the carrots aid onions are done, add some parsley aid scallions, a dessert spoonful of flour, a gliss of vinegar, two of stock, salt, and pepper. Simmer the marinade for three quarters of an hour, then strain it through a horse har sieve, and set it by for use. MARJ ORAM Conserve. — Take tie tops and tenderest part of sweet marp- ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortaror bowl; take double its weight of fine sugsr, boil it with marjoram water till it is as thick as syrup, then put in your beaen marjoram Marjoram (Essence of).—Take sone marjoram, pick off the leaves and lay than to dry in a warm place for about a coude of hours, then take a large-mouthed botle, and put the leaves into it, let the bottlebe filled with them, and pour upon them whe, brandy, proof spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for fourteen days. Marjoram Sweet (to preserve). — Ieat up very well the white v of an egg, flen beat very fine and sift sorite double-refned sugar ; take some marjoram and rub i on a glass that is quite clean, and lay i in the form of the glass; so do it withthe egg, then sear it with the sugar on it,and lay it on paper to dry. MARMALADE*—Marmalade ma- be composed of almost any fruits; the lest, however, for this purpose are apriots, peaches, oranges, quinces, egg-pluns, apples, &c. They are usually made by boiling the fruit and sugar together o a kind of pulp, stirring them constaitly whilst on the fire : it is kept in pts, which must not be covered till the lar- rnalade is quite cold. M a n m a lade ( Transparen t).—T ake s me very pale Seville oranges, and cut tlem into quarters, take out the pulp, pu it into a bason, and take out all the skin aid seeds ; put the peels into a little salt nd water, and leave them to soak in it all345 MAR MAR night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till they are tender ; cut | them in extremely thin slices and add | them to the pulps. To every pound of i the marmalade, put a pound and a half of double-refined sugar finely sifted, and boil I them together gently for twenty minutes. If it is not sufficiently clear, boil or siin- , mer it for five or six minutes longer, keep Stirring it gently all the time, and take great care you do not break the slices. When cold, put it into jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie them down closely with brandy paper. MARROW Bones.—Chop the bones at each end so as to stand steady, then wash them clean, saw them in halves, cover the top with a floured cloth : boil them, and serve with dry toast. Marrow Cream.*—Pound an ounce of sweet almonds with a little milk, press out the milk from the almonds, which use whilst pounding two ounces of beef-marrow and some lemon peel; beat up the yolks of six eggs in warm milk, and add them to the marrow; mix the whole with a quart of good milk, strain it into a sauce- pan, set it on the fire, stirring constantly till it thickens, then pour it into small cups or moulds, and put them in a cool place, and turn them out when to be sent to table. Marrow with Eggs.—Take some beef- marrow, pound it well with eggs boiled hard, season them with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and sweet herbs ; when well mixed roll it up into little balls, wrap each in thin paste, dip them in batter, and fry them. r Marrow Fritters* — Boil some beef- marrow with a glass of stock till reduced to a thin paste, which pour into flat saucers to about the thickness of a crown piece ; when cool turn them out, dip each into a batter made of cream-cheese, pounded with a little milk, two handsful of flour and an egg; fry these fritters, either in oil, lard, or butter; whichever you use, however, should be boiling. Marrow Pasties. ■—Take the marrow from three marrow-bones, a little thyme, winter savory, and sweet maijoram, the yolks of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of currants, a little rose water and some nutmeg; work all these together, and put them into a pasty of puli'paste, and fry them in lard. Marrow Pasties.—Shred some apples with some marrow, add a little sugar to them, make them up in puff paste, and fry them in clarified butter; when fried strew some sugar over them, and serve. Marrow (Patties of).* — Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with orange-flour water; when reduced to a paste, mix it with a handful of flour, a drop of warm water, and the yolks of three eggs ; with this line a number of shallow moulds, dorez and bake them in a slow oven. When done, take them out and put in each a little cream made with beef marrow, le- mon peel, and cream, not laid on thicker than a crown piece ; cover it with a spoon- ful of white of egg whipped to a snow; strew sifted sugar over, and serve them very hot. Marrow Pudding.—Grate the crumb of a French roll, put to it a pint of cream, a pound of marrow sliced, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg, according to taste, two ounces of citron sliced ; three quarters of an hour will be sufficient to bake it; you may add currants, if you think proper. Marrow Pudding.—Boil with a quart of new milk, cinnamon and lemon peel, and strain it to half a pound of beef mar- row finely chopped, a few currants washed and picked, some slices of citron and orange peel candied, a little grated nut- meg, brandy, syrup of cloves, a table- spoonful of each, and half a pound of Naples biscuits. When the mixture is cold, add eight eggs beat up, omitting five of the whites, and bake it in a dish with puff paste round it. Marrow Pudding.*—Soak beef marrow in cold water for twelve hours, then clear away all the pellicles, and beat it with a wooden spoon in a little orange-flower water till of the consistence of thick cream. Take some double cream, mix the marrow with it, add a little mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, and boil it. Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with cream, press the milk from them, and mix with it the whites of three eggs, well whipped, the yolks of ten; beat the whole well, and then put to it the marrow cream, half a pound of powder sugar, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the proper consistence; tie it in a buttered cloth, and put it into boiling water. When done, serve it with melted butter, orange-flour water, and white wine. Marrow Satisages*—Mince equal quantities of beef marrow, fresh pork, and noix of veal; season the mixture well; add346 MAT MAR sweet herbs, if you like; tie them up in sheeps cauls, aud make your sausages either flat, oval, or round, according to your taste. Marrow Toasts.*—Make a farce with some breast of fowl pounded with herbs, and mixed with yolks of eggs and veal gravy; boil some beef marrow in stock, let it cool, and then cut it in pieces ; spread layers offarce on some slices of fried bread, place the pieces of marrow on it (hut not near enough to touch each other), cover them with another layer of farce; strew bread crumbs over, and colour them in the Dutch oven. Marrow Pudding a la Franfaise.— Take a quarter of a pound of beef marrow, clear away all bones and fibres, blanch it in a little water : bruise and mix it with some Frangipane, and finish in the same manner as Tourte of Frangipane, except making the border higher for the pudding. Marrow Tumblers.-—Set on the fire a pint of cream, three eggs and some powder sugar; let them boil for half an hour, stirring constantly, then add some beef marrow shred very small, a few pounded macaroons, a little grated lemon peel, the yolks of two eggs, and the whites of four whisked to a froth, and a few drops of orange-flower water, still stirring till all is well mixed ; then have ready some small plain moulds about an inch and a half deep, butter them well, put a spoonful of cream in each, and bake them : serve either plain or with nonpareils. The same preparation may also be served as a tourte, but it must not be covered; when baked, stew pow- der sugar over, and glaze with the sala- mander. MARSEILLES, or Ginger*—Take a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, and boil it to fort soufId, add to it an ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan from the fire, and with a round stick (like a plain round rule) stir the sugar, inclining the Stick towards the sides of the pan, then with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to the edges and put it amongst the liquid, then work it up again with the stick, re- move the solid sugar as before, and repeat this operation four times, when it will have become tolerably thick and firm; pour it into paper cases, about half an inch thick, and with a fork trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges of what size you please ; afterwards, with the point of a knife, mark some of these deeper than the others; when quite cold, take them out of the pa- pers, and separate them, where the lines are deepest. The Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry place, null keep good for a ! long time. Marseilles (Spiced).*—Take a pound | and a half of fine sugar, boil it to cussd• ' take a quarter of preserved orange peel, the |! same of candied lemon peel (or, if you : like it better, two ounces of blanched pis- i tachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put ' them with half an ounce of cloves, the same i of cinnamon (both pounded), into the su- : gar, stir them in gently, continue to boil I j your syrup to forte plume,- then beat it up, ' pour it into cases, and finish as the Mar- ■■ seilles. MATELOTE au Bouillon*—Take the - wings of turkey-poults, pheasants, or par- -| : tridges, with some pieces of wild rabbits, ,1 1 lamb, and slices of bacon; put them into a il stewpan with equal quantities of stock and il ‘ Champagne, half a glass of olive oil, salt, . ; pepper, and garlic; cover the pan close, . : and stew till reduced to court bouillon; . then lay the pieces on a dish, and pour the I j : sauce over them. If it should be too thick, .1 ; add a glass of consomme. Matelote of Butcher’s Meat*—Take j : beef, veal, mutton, and pork, a large slice of each, and a small one of leg of lamb; i cut them in small pieces, which put into a ; saucepan with equal quantities of stock and i1 Champagne, salt and spices, cover them very close, and set them on hot ashes for : six hours, then serve it. Matelote a (a Colonne.*■—Take six fowl pinions, a dozen crayfish, some veal sweet- breads, pieces of rabbit, and a large eel, stuck with anchovies and cut in pieces, three inches long, small onions, morels, I streaked bacon, pepper, salt, and a glass of j stock; set these, except the eel and onions, il on a slow fire for half an hour; then add a pint of Champagne, some more stock, and two spoonsful of oil, and keep them on the fire; put the eel and pinions into a separate ; saucepan, and when three parts done, add . them to the rest, and finish stewing; as soon as the matelote is sufficiently thick, take the pieces out with a fork, arrange 1 them on a dish according to your taste; lay fried bread round, and in the centre the sauce and court bouillon. Matelote Hollandoise*—Take aneckol . veal, two young pigeons, a small fowl or capon, and some turkey’s pinions; P® JJ them into a saucepan with some good stock ; set them on the fire till alwut halt . done, then add a quarter of a pound o rice; cover the whole very close, and let i stew over a small fire tor two hours, thenMEA 347 MEA take it off, pour tlie whole into a dish and serv e it. Matelote Provenfale.*—Take a leveret and a brace of partridges, half roast and cut i them in pieces ; take also some small soles, smelts, or any other kind of fish ; put them all into a saucepan together with a glass of Champagne, two of stock, salt, pepper, oil, and six cloves of garlic bruised ; boil them to a court bouillon, as other matelotes; dish them, garnished with veal sweetbreads in consomme. MEAD.—To one hundred and twenty gallons ofpure water (the softer the better), put fifteen gallons of clarified honey; well mix the honey with the water, then fill your copper, (it should hold about sixty : gallons), and boil it till it is reduced about a fourth part; then drain it off, and boil the remainder of the liquor in the same • manner. When the last is about a i fourth part wasted, fill up the copper with some of that which was boiled first; and continue boiling and filling it up till the copper contains the whole of the liquor, by which time it will, of course, be half evaporated. The scum must not be taken off, but must well mix with the liquor whilst boiling, by means of a jet; when this is done, draw it off into under backs, by a cock at the bottom of the copper, and let it remain till it is only as warm as new milk. Then turn it up, and suffer it to ferment in the vessel, where it will form a thick head. As soon as it has done working, stop it down very close, to keep the air from it as much as possible. When it is half a year old, put it into bottles, have it well worked, and keep it in the same vault it stood whilst in the cask. Those who like mead to have an aromatic flavour, may mix with it elder, rosemary, and maijoram flowers, and use cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamums, in various proportions, according to taste. Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglan- tine, maijoram, and rosemary, with various spices. Mead (to make').*—To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, boil it an hour. Then put it into a tub with some yeast on a toast; cover it over. If it fer- ments well after three or four days, draw it off clear, and put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced to every gallon; add a bottle of brandy to every ten gallons. The rind of Seville oran ges cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, is a great improvement to the flavour. It is best to wash the cask round with part of the brandy before the liquor is put in. Mead Frontiniac.—Take fifty pounds of honey, fifty pounds of fine raisins, and fifty gallons of water; boil these about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed ; put it in a tub to work, and put to it a pint of ale yeast, letting it work until the yeast be- gins to fall; when taken clear off, turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask a quart of white elder flowers : take care to at- tend to it in change of weather; let it con- tinue in the cask for twelve months, and then fine it down with wine fining, and put it into bottles. Mead Sack.—To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To every gallon add one ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till the following day ; then put it into a cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it lightly till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it in the cask for twelve months. Mead (to make small.)—To a gallon of water put two pounds of honey, and one pound of sugar ; boil it for an hour, put in the whites of four eggs to raise the scum ; skim it quite clean whilst boiling, then put it into a clean tub, and let it stand for a week, putting in a toast with honey, to make it work ; then turn it, and put in the peels of three or four lemons, and let it stand a month; and then if it is not suffi- ciently fine, put in more honey, and let it stand longer. MEAT Cakes.—Take whatever meat, game, or poultry, you may chance to have, (it is the better for being under done) ; mince it fine, adding a little fat bacon or ham, or anchovy; season with a little pepper and salt; mix the whole well to- gether, and make it into small cakes, about three inches in length, an inch and a half in width, and half an inch thick; fry them of a light brown, and serve them with good gravy: or put it into a mould, and boil or bake it. Meat (to keep it lwt).—l{ your meat is done before you are ready to serve, take it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it, so as not to touch the meat, and then put a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. Meat Patties. —The tins should be about the size of a small teacup, but not348 MEL MER so deop ; lay puff paste at the bottom, put in forcemeat, and cover it with puff paste; bake them a light brown, turn them out; five or seven make a side dish, add relish- ing sauce to them. MELON Fritters.—Cut a melon into small pieces (remove the seeds and rind), soak them in brandy and sugar for half an hour; then drain them well, dip each piece in good hatter, and fry them. Serve them with sugar sifted over. Melon Fromage Bavarois.*—Cut a mo- derate sized melon into slices, from which take the rind and seeds; cut the fruit small, and reduce it to a marmalade with half a pound of clarified sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass, stir it well, and place it on ice; as soon as it begins to thicken, mix a plate of whipped cream with it, and finish as usual. Melon Mangoes.—There is a particular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know. Cut a square small piece out of one side, and through that take out all the seeds, mix them with mustard seeds and shred garlic, stuff the melon with them, as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with small pack thread. Boil a sufficient quantity of vinegar to allow for wasting, with pepper, salt, and ginger, and [pour it boiling hot over the mangoes, for four successive days; the last day you pour it over, add flour of mustard, and scraped hoi'se radish, into the vinegar, just as it boils up. Stop close. Be careful there is plenty of vine- gar. All pickles are spoiled it not kept well covered with vinegar, and the greater number of times the boiling vinegar is poured over the mangoes, the sooner it will he ready for use. Large cucumbers called green Turley, prepared in the same manner as above, are very good, and come sooner into eating. Melons (to Preserve for Cookery).—Boil two parts of water, and one of vinegar, with salt, cloves (and other spice if you like), in proportion ; in the meanwhile take some small melons, wipe them with a cloth, and put them into a saucepan; pour the above mixture, whilst boiling, over them, and set them on ashes till the next dny; then re- new the fire, and keep them for several days, until the melons become quite green ; then put them into pots, and when cold, cover them close ; they should be kept in a cool place. Melons (to Preserve like Ginger).*— Half a pound of ginger to one pound of melon; scrape the ginger, and save the scrapings ; pour a quart of boiling water on the ginger, let it stand two days : scald the melon (with the scrapings of the gin- ger in the water), taking care not to make it too soft: cut it into small pieces resem- bling ginger; then prepare a syrup, half a pound of sugar to a pint of water; boil the ginger in it; when cold, put in the melon, and set it over the fire for a short time, hut not to boil; let the syrup, with the gin- ger, he boiled every day for a fortnight, hut not poured upon the melon till nearly cold; then boil a rich syrup to keep it in. N.B. — CaiTOt is equally good with melon. MERINGUES.—Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth; then add the rind of six lemons, grated extremely fine, and a spoonful of sifted sugar; after which, lay a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it, sift sugar over, and put them to hake in a moderately heated oven, taking care that they are done of a nice colour. Then put raspberry, apricot, ! or any other kind of jam between two of these bottoms, add them together, and lay them in a warm place, or before the fire to dry. Meringues.*—Take the whites of twelve eggs, six ounces of the best lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and half a pound of pistachios ; blanch and heat the latter in a mortar, with a little white of egg, to a very fine paste. W bisk the whites of eggs to a snow, then add the sugar, and pistachio paste, mix them well, hut very lightly, and when they are thoroughly incorporated put some sheets of paper on tin plates, lay your preparation on the paper, with a spoon, lay the meringues at least an inch apart; sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and put them into a moderate oven or stove; when done, detach them gently from the paper with a knife, and place them on a sieve in a dry place. Just before they are sent to table, fill each with a little whipped cream, to which add a small quantity of either orange flower, rose, or vanilla water. , , Meringues.—Beat up the whites of four very fresh eggs till quite a firm troth, then mix in gently four large spoonfuls of fine sifted sugar; he as quick as possib e to prevent the sugar melting. Have ready some slips of paper large euough to ho a meringue on thick hoards; then with a spoon form as many half eggs lengt ivs a\ s as you can, sift sugar over them, blow oMIL MIL what falls on the paper and bake them in a slack oven ; when quite crisp take them out, turn them over with the paper, and take out some of the middle very gently with a spoon, and put them in the oven to ( dry, and bake that side. Keep in a dry place till wanted, then fill them with whipt cream well flavoured, or something acid; stick two together to form the egg, and send to table in a caramel basket, or any how you please ; occasionally they may be coloured red for a change. MIGNONETTE.—A mignonette con- sists of the long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, coriander, and mace, tied together, | in a bit of linen cloth. MILK PORRIDGE. —Make a fine gruel of half grits, boiled a long time ; I strain otf; either add cold milk, or warm j it with milk: serve with toast. Milk Porridge (French). — Stir some oatmeal and water together, leave it to stand till it is clear, then pour off the latter; pour fresh water upon it, stir it well, let it stand till the following day; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing; the pro- portion of water should be small. Milk (Potage of).*—Put on the fire some milk, with a little sugar, and a bay leaf; add, as soon as it boils, the yolks of three eggs, then take it off, and set it aside. Whip the whites of eggs to a snow, poach them in a little of the milk; soak your bread in the remainder, put it into the tureen, with the poached whites on the top, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour them with the salamander. Milk Punch*—Beat up two eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, sugar, nut- meg, and lemon peel to your taste ; boil it gently, stirring it all the time till thick enough ; take it off the fire a very few minutes, then add to it a full quarter of a pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time the rum is pouring in, or it will not be good. Milk Punch.—Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as you possibly can, grate them after with sugar to obtain the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy, stopped close for four and twenty hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and one quart of new milk, boiling hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag until it is quite clear: bottle anil cork it close im- mediately. Milk Punch for present Drinking.—To 349 two quarts of water, put two quarts of French brandy, a dozen and half of lemons, three quarters of a pound of double re- fined sugar, and three pints of new milk; strain it frequently through a jelly-bag, till it is clear and fine; it must be made two or three days before you use it, and may be bottled off. Milk Soup.-—-Take two quarts of new milk, with two sticks of cinnamon,'a cou- ple of bay leaves, a very little basket salt, and a little sugar; put all into a stewpan to warm; while heating, blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar ; mix them by degrees with some milk, and while heating, add to them the peel of a lemon, grated, and a little of the juice ; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and mix it with the milk that is heating in the stewpan, and let it boil up. Cut some slices of French bread, and dry them before the fire ; let them soak a little in the milk; lay them at the bot- tom of the tureen, and pour in the soup. Milk Soup Lie*—Put a quart of milk on the fire, and when it boils add to it sugar to your taste, a pinch of salt, and four eggs, keep it on the fire, stirring till you find it thicken and adhere to the spoon (the milk must not boil) ; cut some verv light bread into pieces, soak them in the usual way, substituting milk for broth, pour the soup over and serve. Milk Soup au Safran* — Scald and drain some rice, put it into a quart of boiling milk, adding six grains of saffron in powder; let it boil over a slow fire for an hour and a half, and then serve it quite hot. Milk Vinegar.*—Put six spoonsful of good brandy into a large bottle full of milk ; cork it well, anil expose it in a warm place for a month, opening it occa- sionally on account of the fermentation ; at the end of that time the milk will have become very good vinegar; strain it through a cloth, and keep it in bottles. Milk Water.—'Take two handsful of wormwood, the same of carduus, ditto of rue, ditto of angelica ; mint and balm, of each four handsful; cut them a little, put them into a cold still, and add to them three quarts of milk ; let your fire be quick till the still drops, then slacken it: you may draw off two quarts ; the first quart will keep all the year. MILLET Pudding. — Wash three spoonsful of the seed ; put it into a dish with a crust round the edges ; pour overMIN 350 MOR it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, add two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, shred lemon, and a very little gin- ger and nutmeg, grated: as you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs, beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. Millet Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, and spread it at the bot- tem of a dish, then put in six ounces of millet, with a quarter of a pound of sugar; pour over it three pints of milk, and bake it. MINCE Pie.—Weigh two pounds of scraped beef, free from skin and strings ; of suet, picked and chopped, four pounds ; then add six pounds of currants, nicely cleaned, and perfectly dried; three pounds of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nut- meg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of pimen- tos, in the finest powder; mix the whole well together, and put it into a pan, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. Have some citron, orange, and lemon peel, ready; and put some of each in the pies when made. Mince Pies without Meat.*-—-Take a pound of currants, a pound of apples, chopped fine, a pound of moist sugar, a pound of suet, well chopped, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped small; the juice of four Seville oranges, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg, and mace, according to taste, and a glass of brandy ; mix all well together, put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. i* Mint (Creme of).*—Put into the bain- marie alembic, a gallon of brandy, twelve ounces of fresh gathered mint, and the rinds of three lemons; distil from this two quarts of liqueur, in which dissolve one drachm of essence of mint; put a pound and half of sugar into two quarts of water, and when entirely dissolved, add the syrup to your liqueur, strain and bottle it. Mint (Distilled Liqueur of).*—Take two handsful of fresh gathered garden mint, and infuse it for some days in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water; then distil it as usual. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, mix the syrup with tho liqueur, and run the whole through ajelly bag. Mint (Essence of Jelly).* — Put three quarters of a pound of fino sugar into a preserving pan, and when nearly boiling, throw into it twelve drachms of fresh gathered mint, and tho rinds of two lemons; cover it and leave it to get luke- warm ; dissolve half a drachm of essence of mint in a glass of tepid water, add half a glass of kirschenwasser, mix these with the lukewarm sugar, and an ounce of cla- rified isinglass, also lukewarm ; strain the whole through a silk sieve, and finish as usual. Mint (Green Vinegar). — Take half an ounce of mint, dry and pound it, pour over it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day. Mint (Orange TFafer).—Take a still full of orange mint, distil it in a cold still, and put fresh orange mint into the water distil it again, and put your bottles into the still unstopped; a spoonful of this water put into "a glass of spring water will perfume it as well as orange flower water. Mint Sauce.—Take nice fresh mint, chop it small, and mix it -with vinegar and sugar. Mlnt (Soufflces Franfuis).*—Take some fresh gathered mint leaves, put them, with the rinds of two lemons, into the milk, when nearly boiling ; strain and finish as usual. See Soufflees Franfais. Mint Water.—Take four pounus of dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water distil them, and sweeten the water with a pound and a half of sugar. MIRLITONS.*—Put into a pan; two yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of powder sugar, three ounces of sweet macaroons crushed, half an ounce of crisped orange flowers in powder, and a grain of salt; stir these together a minute, then add two ounces of melted butter ; whip the two whites very firm, and put them also to the preparation. Line thirty tartlet moulds with puff-paste, into each of which pour an equal quantity of the above ; cover them with sifted sugar, and when tliat is dissolved, strew over a little sugar, a la grcle; and put them into a moderate oven : serve either hot or cold. Moon Game, see Moor Fowl. MORELS.*—The morel is a kind of mushroom, and is usually dressed in the same manner. For a ragout or garnish, they are prepared as follows: Haiing taken off their stalks, split the largest morels into two or three pieces; wash and put them into a basin of warm water to free them from the sand and earth; then blanch, drain, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and lemon juice, give them a few turns, and moisten with either brown or white sauce.MOU MUI. 35- Morels with Bacon.—Cut about a quarter of a pound of bacon into slices, put it into a stewpan and set it on tbe tire; when done, take some large morels, wash them well, cut each in half, and put them into the same pan (having removed tire bacon); add a little butter, and give them a few turns ; then take them out, goalc them in melted butter or oil, with chopped parsley, shalots, whole pepper, and i salt; in about half an hour, drain and roll them in bread crumbs, put on small skew- , ers, lay them on a gridiron, broil slowly , basting with the butter, bacon, fat, and i the marinade; lay the slices of bacon on a j dish, and the morels on them. Morels with Cream* ■— The morels I being well washed, cut them in halves or | quarters, according to tbeirsize ; stew them with butter, salt, and a little water; when they are nearly done, add some good cream, mix it in well, finish them, and serve the morels quite hot. Morels with Croute *—Pick and cut the morels in halves, wash them in several waters; boil, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley and scallions ; fry them lightlv, add a little flour and consomme, reduce them; take out the parsley and scallions, thicken with the yolk of an egg beaten up with cream, add a small quantity of powder sugar ; serve them with a crust prepared as for mushrooms. Morels in Gravy*—Having cut, well j- washed, and drained yourmorels, put them into a saucepan with oil, salt, and pepper ; let them boil for half an hour; add some j veal gravy and a little wine ; then simmer them till sufficiently done ; serve with the sauce; if the latter be too thick squeeze . lemon juice into it. j Morels (to keep).—They should be dried ’ slowly, put into paper bags, and kept in a } dry place. Morels (Stuff'ed').*—Choose the largest ( and most round-shaped morels, and having f washed and drained, dry them in a cloth” f each with a little fine farce, and stew them with slices of bacon and veal; when nearly done, pour on them a little veal gravy. Serve very hot. Morels and Truffles.—Morels and 1 truffles are used for flavouring soups and sauces. Wash half an ounce of each then let them simmer a few minutes in water, and add them, with the liquor, to hoil in the sauce, &c. till tender. MOUNTAIN Wine.—Take some very fine Malaga raisins, pick out the stalks, and chop them very fine, and to every ten pounds of the raisins put two gallons of water. Letthem steep three weeks, stirring them frequently during that time; then squeeze out the liquor, and put it into a vessel that will just hold it, but be careful not to stop till it has done hissing; then bung it up close, and it will be fit for use in about six months. MUFFINS.—Mix two pounds of flour with a couple of eggs, two ounces of but- ter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonsful of yeast; beat it tho- roughly, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn them, when done on one side. MUFFIN Pudding with dried Cherries.— Take a pint and a half of milk, add to it a few coriander seeds, a hit of lemon peel, sugar according to taste, and boil them together for ten minutes; then put four muffins into a pan, strain the milk over them, and when they are cold, mash them with a wooden spoon; add half a gill of brandy, half a pound of dried cherries, a little grated nutmeg, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded extremely fine, and six eggs well beaten. Mix all together and boil in a basin, or bake it in a dish with paste all round; or steam it in a mould that has been previously but- tered and stuck fancifully with dried cherries, and serve when turned out with wine sauce over it. MULBERRIES (Preserved). — Boi three quarters of a pound of sugar to grand perl/: ; put to it a pound of mulber- ries, stir them in carefully, without letting them boil; take the pan by the handle and roll the fruit about in the sugar for a few minutes; pour them into a basin, and let them stand ; the next day drain off the sugar, boil it to the abovementioned de- gree ; add the fruit, and proceed as above. Pour it into pots; do not cover them till quite cold. Mulberries (to preserve dry.')—Your mulberries must not be too dry, but must look rather a reddish green, and taste tart; prepare the same quantity of sugar au souffle as of fruit; put in the mulber- ries and let them boil; the sugar must be first clarified with mulberry juice instead of water; when they have boiled, take the pan from the fire, skim it, and set it in a stove till next day ; then take them out, drain them from the syrup, and put them up in boxes for use. Mulberries (Ratafia of ).*—Take twoMUL MUS 352 gallons of brandy, a quart of water, three pounds and a half of sugar, three pounds of mulberries, half a pound of red currants, the same of raspberries, and lialfa drachm of mace. Take the seeds from the currants, mix, and crush all the fruits, the juice from which, with the mace, infuse in the brandy fifteen or eighteen days. Dissolve the sugar in the water, mix the syrup with the brandy, filter and bottle it. Mulberry Syrup.—Put some mulber- ries into a jug, tie a paper over it, and then put it up to the neck in a kettle of water; let it boil; as the liquor rises from the mulberries pour it off, strain it, and to one pint of the liquorput one pound of loaf sugar; set it over a slow fire, boil it gently till it becomes about the con- sistence of treacle; then take it off and bottle it. „ . Mulberries (Syrup of). - -Take as many mulberries as will yield three pints of juice, which put into a preserving-pan with three pints of water ; boil until this quantity is reduced to one pint; then lay the fruit on a sieve to drain. Clarify three pounds of sugar, boil it to bouille ; then add the mulberry juice; give them one boil, and skim them. Pour the syrup into a pan, and let it stand; when cold, bottle it. Mulberry Wive. — Take mulberries when they are just changed from then- redness to shining black, gather thern on a dry day, when the sun has taken oft the dew, spread them thinly on a fine cloth on a floor or table for twenty-four hours, and boil up a gallon of water to each gallon of juice ; skim the water well, and add a little cinnamon slightly bruised; put to every gallon six ounces of white sugar- candy, finely beaten; skim and strain the water when it is taken ofl and settled, and put to it the juice of the mulberries, and to every gallon of the mixture put a pint of white or Rhenish wine; let them stand five or six days in a cask to settle ; then draw off the wine, and keep it cool. 1 his is a very rich cordial. MULLET (to choose).— ihe sea mullets are better than the river mullets, and the red are considered better than the gray , to be good they should be very firm. Mullet (Boiled).-Boi\ mullets in salt and water (a small quantity) ; when they are done, pour away part of the water, anc put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, nutmeg, beaten mace, andtho j uico of a lemon ; boil these well toget e , with two or three anchovies ; then put in the fisli; and when they have simmered in it some time, put them into a dish and strain the sauce over them. Shrimps or oysters may be added. Mullet {Broiled).—Scale and clean them, and cut gashes in tlieir sides, dip them in melted butter, and broil them at a great distance from the fire ; serve with anchovy sauce with capers, and a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon. Mullets (Fried). — Scale and clean them, pour some melted butter into a deep dish, score the mullets across the back, and dip them into the butter ; then put some butter in a stewpan, clarify it, fry the mullets in it; when they are done, lay them on a warm dish, and serve with an- chovy sauce. Mullet (Bed).—Red mullet is called the sea woodcock. Clean it, but do not take out the inside; fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish, hlake a sauce of the liquor which comes from i the fish, adding a bit of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil, and serve it in a sauce-boat, and serve the fish in the paper cases. „ 1 MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP.-Slice six large onions and two heads of celery, fry them with a little butter in a stewpan till coloured, add a little basil and maijo- ram, three spoonsful of curry powder ant- three or four quarts of good strong con- somme, or stock ; thicken it moderately with roux, and let it boil an hour gently, skim it well, and rub it through a tammy cloth, or tammy sieve; cut up a good- sized fowl or two chickens, and lightly fry them, throw them into the soup, simmer for an hour, skim, and season it with lemon juice and salt, and serve with plain boiled rice in a separate dish. MUSCADINE Ices.—Put an ounce ot elder flower into a sabotiere, pour upon it about half a pint of boiling water, then put on the lid of the sabotiere , and let it draw for about half an hour, make a composition precisely as if it were a lemon ice ; to ■ composition add the infusion o e flower, pass the whole through a sit > and put it into the sabotiere to congeal. MUSCLES Fritters*—Take them out of their shells, and after many washings, steep them for two hours ln “ 5U. ^ vinegar, some water, and a htUebug rolled in flour, with salt, pepper, parsley green onions, tarragon, gar c’ , n(j acarrol and parsnip, thyme, by leaf,MUS MUS 353 i basil, the whole made lukewarm; then take out the muscles, dry and dip them in a batter made of flour, white wine, a spoon- ful of oil and salt, and fry them. Muscle Ketchup. — Take fine fresh muscles, wash them in their own liquor, pound them in a marble mortar, to a pint i of muscles and a pint of sherry; then give them a boil up, add one ounce of salt, two : drachms of mace well pounded, and one i ounce of Cayenne ; give the whole one i boil, skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; ■ let it stand to cool, and when cold put it i into bottles ; cork it carefully, and seal it (down. Muscles a la Minute *—Clean and take away the shells as directed for la Poulette, I draw off all the water except what is ne- i cessary to cook them in, add a little butter and shred parsley, shake them up a minute i or two, and then serve with a squeeze of ) lemon. Muscles a la Poulette *—The muscles i being thoroughly washed, put them into a pan without any water, and steam them lightly over a brisk fire; as they open, remove the shells, strain the liquor from them through a silk sieve. Put a piece of butter in the saucepan, and some shred scal- lions, give them a few turns on file fire, then add a little parsley, and afterwards a dessert spoonful of flour; mix this well with the butter, and pour in the liquor . from the muscles, season with pepper and ; nutmeg; give the whole a few boils, thicken it with two or three yolks of eggs, ' put in the muscles, make them quite hot, ' but do not let them boil. Dish them, and i squeeze lemon juice over them. Muscles (Ragout of).—Open them, l melt a little butter in a stewpan, fry the | muscles a minute with a little chopped parsley, shake a little flour over them, put in a little cream, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and : lemon juice; boil them up. If you wish them to be brown, instead of cream you should put good gravy, i Muscles in Soup.*—Take the liquor that flows from the muscles when they open over the fire, and strain it through a fine napkin,put itinto some good stock, andbeat up the yolks of six eggs, and add to it ; thicken over the fire, and mix the whole with some consomme soup when ready to serve, arranging the muscles round the dish. Muscles (Tourte of).—Line a dish with puff-paste, put at the bottom a layer of good farce, then (having washed the muscles well) put them into a saucepan, take away the shells as they open, leave in the fish, and let them stew in their own liquor with butter, shalots, parsley, nut- meg, pepper, and salt; lay them on the farce, cover and bake the tourte, and serve with bechamel. MUSHROOMS (to choose.)—The mush- rooms proper to be used in cookery grow* in the open pasture land, for those that grow near or under trees are poisonous. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of around form, on a little stalk. They grow very rapidly, and the upper part and stalk are white. As they increase in size, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edge and middle, and whether they have a pleasant smell. Those which are poisonous have a yellow skin, and the under part has not the clear flesh colour of the real mushroom; besides which, they smell rank and disagreeable, and the fur is white or yellow. Mushrooms a la Bourgeois.*—Pick, trim, and cut the mushrooms in halves; put some slices of streaky bacon into a stew- pan, and set it on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, then add the mushrooms, parsley, scallions, shalots (chopped), pep- per, a pinch of flour, a little stock and white wine ; stew the whole gently, and when reduced to a thick sauce, pour it on fried bread, and serve with vinegar or lemon juice. Mushrooms (Broiled.).— Choose the largest sort; pepper and salt them well, put butter on, lay them on a small grid- iron with the stalk upwards, broil them rather quick, and serve them with good gravy. Mushrooms en Cannellon.—Chop some mushrooms into dice, put them into a stewpan, with sliced parsley, scallions, shalots, and some butter; when a little browned, add stock, pepper, and salt; let it simmer till the mushrooms are done, and the sauce pretty thick, then put in the yolks of three eggs, and a little lemon juice; set it hy to cool; in the meantime roll some paste very thin, cut it in pieces, in each of which put some of the above moisten the edges, and roll them up into the form of short sausages, flour and frv them. J Mushrooms a la Creme.—Choose those 2 A354 MUS MUS which fU'O small, and boil them a few mi- nutes in some good cream sauce ; toast the crust of a rasped French roll, fill it with the mushrooms, turn it over on the dish, and pour the remainder over it. Mushrooms with crust.— Take some mushrooms, wasfi, but do not peel them; then put them with a few spoonsful of good oil into a fryingpan, and heat them for seven or eight minutes over a quick fire. Whilst they are cooking, add pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and shred parsley and shalots; then pour the whole over a fried crust, and serve immediately. Mushrooms (to dry).—Wipe them quite clean, and take out the brown, and pare off the skin of the large ones; lay them on paper, and put them in a cool oven to dry, keep them in paper hags in a very dry place. When wanted for use, simmer them in gravy, and they will swell, to nearly their former size; or you may- simmer them in their own liquor till it dries up into them, shaking the pan, then dry them on tin plates, with spice or not, as you think proper. Tie down with a bladder, and keep them in a dry place, or in paper. Mushrooms and Eggs*—Mince some morells or mushrooms very small, put them into astewpan with some rich gravy, and do them till properly flavoured and the gravy pretty thick, then pour on them the yolks of twelve eggs, and the whites of eight, season moderately, and beat them constantly whilst on the fire; serve them very hot. Mushrooms (Fricasseed).— Peel some mushrooms ; if they are large, cut them in pieces, wash them in cold water, until some vinegar, and blanch them ; afterwards dip them again into cold water, and wipe them dry. Then heat them over the fire, with a hit of butter rolled in flour, some salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley; moisten with hot water or stock, and just before serving, thicken with the yolk of an e"", and half a tea spoonful of vinegar. Mushrooms (to keep).*—-Themushrooms for koepin"- should be of a moderate size ; lay them on hurdles, or string and hang them up in a dry place, where there is a free circulation of air, but no sun : if you wish to dry them by a quicker process, lay them in an oven ; should you have any ]arn-e ones, take oft'the tops and stems, and cut them in slices ; when perfectly ( ry, put them into bags, which koep m a dry open place, shaking them often. Anothor method of preserving mush- rooms is, by putting them either in oil, salt water, or vinegar, with garlic, pepper, and salt, and when they are wanted, soak them in warm water or milk. Mushrooms (to keep.)*—Choose your mushrooms very white, Ann, and fresh gathered, pick and wash them; then put them into a stewpan with some good fresh butter, or the best olive oil; set the pan on the fire, and leave them until they have given out all their water, and then until that water is half evaporated, they may then be taken from the fire and put into a pan; when cold, put them into bottles, which set in a bain-marie. Mushrooms (to keep) in Salt and IFofer.* .—Thoroughly clean them ; boil them ten- der in water and a little salt; dry them with a cloth ; make a strong brine ; when cold, put in the mushrooms; at the end of a fortnight change the brine ; put them into small bottles, and pour oil on the top. When you want to use them for ragout, &c., lay them first in warm water. Mushroom Ketchup.—Choose the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, sprinkle salt over them, and stir them now and then for three successive days. Then let them stand for twelve days, until there is a thick scum over them ; strain, and boil the liquor with Ja- maica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a few cloves, and some mustard-seed. AVlien cold, put it into bottles, and tie a bladder over die cork ; at the end of three months it should be boiled again, with fresh spices, and it mav then be kept for twelve months. MusnROOMS in a Marinade (tried.) Choose some good button mushrooms, peel tiiem, and put them for one day into a pickle of half vinegar and half water, salt, one clove of garlic, peppercorns, parsley, carrots, and onions ; have some good fresh lard on die fire, take the mushrooms out of the piclde, chop them in flour, and fiy them in the hot lard, laying them on paper as you do them ; serve them with a sharp sauce, made with three table-spoonsful of butter sauce, mixed with a litde glaze, and the juice of nearly half a lemon. Mushrooms Pickled. —Button mush- rooms should be rubbed with a bit of t in nel and salt, and from the larger ones take out the red insides ; when diev are hi act they will not do, being too old. fcpnnue a little salt over them, and put them into n stewpan, widi some mace and pepp » as the liquor comes ont, shake thfm ^ ‘ • and keep them over a gentle fire t l of it bo dried into diem again, then pmMUS 355 MUS i as much white vinegar into the pan as will be sufficient to cover them; give it one warm, and turn the whole into a glass ox- stone jar. They will keep for two years. Mushrooms (Pickled.)* — Boil them in milk, then wipe them dry with a flannel. Boil some white vinegar with mace, nut- meg, and ginger, and let it stand till cold, then put it to the mushrooms, and bottle it; when bottled, pour in a little sweet oil before tying on the bladders. Mushrooms (to Pickle) White.—Cut off the stalks of some small button musbx-ooms, rub the skins off with flannel dipped in salt, and then throw them into milk and water. Drain them out, and put them into a stewpan, strewing over them a handful of salt; cover them close, and put them over a gentle stove for five minutes, to draw out all the water. Then put them on a coarse cloth to drain till they are cold ; put them into bottles, coi-k them, make quite hot through in the bain marie, then put them by for use. Mushroom Powder.*•—Take half a peck of large mushi-ooms, wash them clean fx-om grit, cut off the stalks, put them into a Saucepan without auy water, a quarter of an ounce of mace, two spoonsful of pepper powdered, two onions stuck with cloves, a handful of salt, some allspice and nutme°- if you like, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stew till the liquor is dried up, then lay them on sieves to dry, till • theY j^ll heat to a powder. Bottle, and cork it down close for use ; a tea-spoonful added to gravy or soup, a minute or two before it is taken off the fire, gives a fine flavour. Mushroom Powder.—After the mush- rooms or champignons are dried whole, they may be set before the fire till crisp ; then grind and sift them through a fine sieve, and preserve in small bottles closelv corked. J Mushrooms (Quintessence of.)—This de- licate relish is obtained, by sprinkling ' SOI)i0 button or flap mushrooms over with : 8 llttle and three hours after, mash 1 them; the following day, strain off the 1 . Iu0r that will flow from them, and boil it 1 in a stewpan till reduced to half. It will I not keep long, but many prefer it on ac- 1 count of the flavour of the mushrooms not being overpowered by the spices, which it is necessary to put into ketchup to nre- 1 serve them. 1 Mushroom Loaves.—Wash some small button mushrooms, the same as for pick- ling, and boil them a few minutes in a little water ; add to them a little cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper. Boil these up, take the crumbs out of some Trench rolls, and fill them with the mushrooms. Mushrooms (Ragout of).—Take some large mushrooms, scrape the insides of them, and broil them till they are brown ; then put them into some gravy, thickened with a little roux, a very little Madeira, salt, Cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Give the whole a boil, and then serve. Mushrooms (Ragout of) Brown* Pre- pare your mushrooms as for white ragofu ; when minced, and the moisture pressed out, make a little brown roux, moisten it with stock ; put to it a little ham, trim- mings of veal, a seasoned bunch of sweet herbs, carrot, and onions ; when done, strain it through a sieve, and then finish it by adding the mushrooms. Mushrooms (Ragout of) White.—Pick and cut off the stalks of the mushrooms near to the head, wash them in several waters, and then put them into a saucepan, with some water and lemon juice. Drain, mince them very small, and press them closely in a cloth. As soon as all their moisture is extracted, replace them in a saucepan, with butter and lemon juice, and when the former begins to oil, add equal quantities of veloutd and consommd ; reduce, and season it with pepper. Thicken it with yolks of eggs, cream, and butter ; skim off the fat and serve. Mushroom Salad.—Cut your mushrooms into dice, which put into a saficepan, with oil, and a slice or two of peeled lemon ; simmer a short time, then drain, and let them cool; when quite cool, put them into a salad dish, with chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; prepare them like other salads, with oil and vinegar. Mushroom Sauce.*—Cut some mush- rooms into pieces, press them in a cloth, and then mince them ; do them up in a little melted butter, then add some good stock, parsley, scallions, and two cloves of garlic; skim, and cook them over a mo- derate fire for half an hour; strain, tako off the fat, and serve it very hot. Mushroom Sauce ii l’ Espagnole,•—Put two ladiesful of brown consommd into a stewpan, with two ladiesful of sauce tournde, and some mushrooms; reduce it over the fire to the thickness of the sauce you put in, then stir in a piece of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a very small quantity of Cayenne pepper. Mushrooms, Stewed.*—Peel some largo 2 a iMUS MUS 356 mushrooms, take out the inside, broil them, and when the outside is brown, put them in a stewpan with water enough to cover them, a spoonful of white wine, the same of browning, add a little vinegar; thicken it with flour and butter; boil it up ; and serve with sippets round the dish. Mushrooms (Stewed.)—Having washed, peeled, and trimmed your mushrooms, which should be of a middling size, put some butter at the bottom of the stewpan ; on that the mushrooms well seasoned with pepper and salt, cover them close, and set over a moderate fire for about fifteen mi- nutes, then thicken them with flour and butter, or ready made roux, add a spoonful of rich gravy to them, boil for a few mi- nutes to take off the rawness of the flour, and serve very hot. Mushrooms d la Bordelaise.*—Choose the thickest and firmest mushrooms, wash and drain them, cut the under side in lozenges, put them in a dish with oil, pepper, and salt, let them lay two hours in this, then broil them ; make a sauce as follows : Put some oil, shred parsley, and scallions, and a small piece of garlic, into a saucepan ; shake them over the fire till quite hot; then pour it over the mush- rooms with the juice of a lemon. Mushrooms (White) aux Croute.*— Trim and blanch your mushrooms, put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley and scallions ; set the pan on a stove and fry the mushrooms lightly; then add a spoonful of roux and some good stock ; let these boil pretty quick at first, and afterwards set them aside to simmer ; season them with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; take the upper crust of a very light brick, rasp and take out all the crumb, butter the crust inside and out, place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, dry and broil of a nice colour ; take the parsley and scallions from the mushrooms, thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, pour a little°of this on the crust, lay it on a dish the hollow part downwards; pour the ra- gout over, and serve it. Mushrooms (White) for Galantine. - Trim and put the mushrooms into cold water, in which is a little lemon-juice ; then drain and set them on the fire with a good bit of butter and lemon-juice, for about five minutes ; when done, put them in a China basin for use. Mushrooms (TK/iife) with Herbs. —I re- pare and soak your mushrooms as for la Bordelaise, mince the stalks aud trimmings, press out all the water they may contain, put them into a saucepan, with oil, salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions, and a piece of garlic ; give these a few turns, and having laid the mushrooms on a dish, put a little of the sauce into each, sprinkle them with raspings : pour a little oil over, and bake them; when done, dish and serve them with their own sauce and lemon-juice. Mushrooms (White) d la Provenqale*— Take four small baskets of very firm mush- rooms, pick, wash, and drain them ; cut each in half, and lay them in oil, seasoned with pepper, salt, and garlic ; just before dinner time, put them into a frying-pan with some olive oil, fry them over a large fire ; when of a good colour, add two spoonsful of chopped parsley, and about a dozen pieces of bread, all the same size and shape; squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and serve. Mushrooms (Puree of) White.*—• Choose your mushrooms very white: cut off the earthy end of the stalk, and wash them. Put a little water into a stewpan with the juice of a lemon, fry the mush- rooms lightly in this; then drain and mince them very small; put them into a cloth, press them very tight. Take a piece of butter, and put it in a saucepan with a squeeze of lemon and the chopped mush- rooms ; set them on the fire, and when the butter is oiled, add six ladiesful of veloute, and as much consomme; reduce this till your puree is pretty thick ; season with whole pepper. Mushroom (T!rhite) Sauce.—Have ready some cream sauce, rather thinner than usual; to this put a few small white mushrooms ; reduce it to the proper con- sistence ; it is then ready for use. Mushroom (White) Sauce.—lake the best white button-mushrooms, cut the stalks off, throw them into water, wash them well two or three times, drain and very neatly7 turn them, and put them di- rectly into lemon-juice and water; drain and put them into a stewpan with a slice of butter and the squeeze of a lemon, salt, and cayenne ; cover them close, and stew for ten minutes; add three spoonsful of of veluti or bechamel sauce; give one bou up, and serve. MUSK (to prepare) forLiqueurs* 1 ake two grains of musk and a quarter of a pound of sugar, pound them in a mortar and mix them well; keep it in a closely-stopped bottle. The quantity required of this is ono pinch to fouror five quarts of liqueur. k357 MUT MUS Ambergris is prepared in a similar manner; but being less powerful than the musk, four grains is tbe proportion to a quarter of a pound of sugar. MUSTARD (to make.)—Take some of tbe best Durham flour of mustard and mix it, by degrees, to a proper thickness with boiling water, rubbing it extremely smooth ; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closely covered, and only put as much into the mustard-pot as will be used in a few days ; the mustard-pot should be daily wiped round the edges. Mustard (to make) for immediate Use.*■— Take some mustard, and, by degrees, mix it quite smooth with new milk, adding a little cream ; it is very soft, and not in the least bitter, thus made. Mustard Sauce.*—Put two glasses of stock, shalots shred small, salt and pepper, into a saucepan ; let them boil for half an hour, then add a spoonful of mustard ; stir i it in well, and use it when required. MUTTON (Observations on).—The pipe I that runs along the bone of the inside of a j chine of mutton, ought to be taken away; j and if it is to be kept any length of time, : the part close round the tail should be rubbed with sailt, previously cutting out the kernel. It is best for the butcher to take out the ! kernel in the fat on the thick part of the < leg, as that is the part most likely to be- come tainted. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; therefore, if it is to be kept, it is best, should the weather be hot, to : rub it with a little salt. When intended for roasting, it should | hang as long as it will keep, the hind quarters particularly; but not so long as I to become tainted. Mutton for boiling ought not to hang long, as it will prevent its looking of a good colour. The greatest care should be taken to preserve, by paper, the fat of what is ! roasted. Mutton (a Basque of)—Put the caul of i a leg of veal into a copper dish the size I of a small punch-bowl. Chop the lean I part of a leg of mutton extremely small; take half its weight of beef marrow, the I crumb of a penny loaf, the rind of half a ' lemon, grated, half a pint of red wine, two anchovies, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix all together with the mutton, and fasten it 1 in the caul in the middle of the dish ; bake it in a quick oven, and when done turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out. Pour over it a brown gravy garnish with pickles, and serve with sweet sauce. Mutton (Boiled) Turkish Fashion.—Cut the meat in slices, wash it in vinegar, put it in a saucepan with whole pepper, rice, and two or three onions; stew these very slowly, and skim very often ; when it is tender, take out the onions, and put sip- pets in the dish under the meat. Mutton (Boulettes of) fried.*—Mince some cold roasted mutton very small; take a fourth of its weight in sausage- meat, some crumb of bread soaked in milk, boiled potatoes, sweet herbs shred small, salt and pepper ; mix these together with the yolks of two or three eggs. Roll this farce into as many balls as you think proper, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry them. Serve with sauce piquante. Mutton (Breast of) broiled.*—Boil the mutton, and afterwards broil it, having first strewed it over with shred parsley and young onions, some salt, pepper, and grated bread-crumbs. Mutton (Breast of) en Carbonade *— Take out the brisket-bones, and cut a breast of mutton into oval-shaped pieces, braise them (adding some slices of ham to the usual braising materials) for three hours. When wanted for the table, drain and glaze them. Serve with spinach, en- dive, sorrel, or anything else. Mutton (Breast of) collared.—Take a breast of mutton, take off the skin, bone it, and roll it up in a collar, like a breast of veal. Put a quart of milk and a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and baste the meat with it well whilst it is roasting. Put some good gravy into the dish and into a boat, with some currant- jelly in another boat, and serve. Mutton (Breast of) d la Ste. Mene- hould.*—Braise a breast of mutton in the usual way ; when done, take it out, rub salt and pepper over it, dip it in melted butter, bread it thoroughly, and broil it over a slow fire, pass a salamander over it, and serve with a clear gravy. Mutton.—(Breast of) aux Petiles Ra- cines.*—Prepare and braise a breast of mutton, as directed for Carbonade, and when done, drain the pieces, dish them, en couronnes, in the centre of which pour the ragout of carrots. (See Petites Ra- cines. Mutton (Breast of) roasted witliWine.— Skin and bone a breast of mutton, then roll it up in a collar, like a breast of veal.MUT 358 MUT i Boast it, and haste it with half a pint of red wine ; when you have used up all the wine, finish hasting- with hutter. Have a little good gravy in readiness, and when the mutton is done, set it upright in a dish, pour in the gravy, prepare sweet sauce, the same as for venison, and send it up to table -without any garnish. Mutton Broth.—Take two pounds of scrag of mutton, take out the blood by putting it into a stewpan, and cover it with cold water; and when the water is lukewarm, pour it off, skim it well; then put it in again with four or five pints of water, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of grits, and an onion; set it on a slow fire, and when you have taken all the scum olF, put in a few turnips, let it simmer very sloivly for two hours, and strain it through a clean sieve. Mutton Broth.—Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, preserving a handsome piece to he served up in the tureen; cleanse it as directed above ; put all into a stewpan with three quarts of cold beef-stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and a small hunch of thyme and parsley. When it boils, skim it clean, and -when nearly done, take out the piece you intend to serve in the tureen, and let the other pieces stew till tender; then have ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some paisley, all cut small, and some marigolds ; wash them, strain the liquor off’ the meat, skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingre- dients with the piece of mutton intended for the tureen, adding- a little pearl barley, ready boiled. Season with salt, simmer all together till done, and serve with toasted bread on a plate. Mutton (Currie) Caboh.—Cut the lean of a loin of mutton in neat square pieces, free from skin and fat, and put them on silver attlet-slcewers j slice a dozen large onions, blanch them in boiling water, strain them off, put them into a stewpan, with some chopped mushrooms, three large tablespoonsful of curry-powder, and a quar- ter of an ounce of pounded mace, a little salt, and a spoonful of stock ; simmer this for two hours, and then rub it through a hair sieve ; lay the skewers ot mutton in a stewpan and pour the puree of onions on them, cover them close, and simmer slowly for three hours, taking care it does not bum; put the skewers of mutton on the dish, and pour the sauce over them. 1 his, if well made, is an excellent dish for those fond of Indian cookery. A little garlic may be added sometimes. Mutton Caboh (Winchester).—Bone a loin of mutton that has the whole flap on, cut off nearly all the fat, and brush it over with eggs ; take four handsful of bread- crumbs, and mix with them the grated rind of two lemons, a nutmeg grated, pep- per, salt, pounded mace, parsley, thyme, and shalot chopped fine ; strew this thickly over the mutton, roll it up, crumb it like- wise outside, skewer it, and tie on the spit; roast it gently an hour and a half. If it gets too brown, put paper over it. For sauce, reduce half a pint of port wine, with some chopped shalot, to half the quantity, add three spoonsful of espugnole, or cullis, a knob of sugar, Cayenne, and salt, and serve under the cabob. Mutton (Capilolade of.')*-—Cut the re- mains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, put them into a pan with salt, pepper, nutmeg, white wine, stock, and a dessert- spoonful of olive oil; when about half done, add to it two ounces of raspings, cover the saucepan close, and let it boil slowly for three or four hours; then pour it on a dish with its liquor and the juice of a Seville orange. Mutton Chops in disguise.—Take as many chops as you choose, and rub them with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; roll each chop in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered on the inside, and rolled on each end close ; have some hog’s lard or beef-dripping boiling in a frying- pan ; put in the steaks, fry them of a nice brown, lay them in your dish, and garnish with, fried parsley, throw some all over them, and have a little good gravy in a sauceboat; but take great care that you do not break die paper, nor have any fat in the dish, but let them be well drained. Mutton (to collar a Breast of.)*—Take off the skin, bone, and gristle, from a breast of mutton; then grate white bread, cloves, mace (a small quantity,), pepper, and salt, die volks of three eggs bruised small, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; make the meat flat, strew the seasoning over it with four or five anchovies, washed and boned ; roll the meat up as a collar, bind it with a coarse tape, and broil or roast it, cut it in three or four pieces, and serve it up with a good thick gravy ; fne oysters, or forcemeat balls, are an im- provement. It is very good cold, cut in slices, like collared beet. Mutton Collvps.—Take all the lean from a leg of mutton that has hung some time;MUT MUT 359 cut it into slices, about the size of half an egg; beat them quite flat, and fry them lightly in lard, with some chopped parsley, shalots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then put them into a stewpan, adding to the above seasoning, a few slices of veal, and ham, cover them with bacon, and let then simmer for about half an hour ; put in half a glass of white wine, and some stock ;when quite done, take out the mutton, drain and dish it, add a little cullis to the sauce,reduce it; skim, and strain it over the collops. Mutton Collops.—Take a leg of mutton, which has hung for some time, and cut it into thin collops; take out all the sinews, season the collops with salt, pepper, bea- ten mace, some shred parsley, thyme, and two shalots: put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, and when it is quite hot, put in all the collops, and keep stirring them with a wooden spoon, till they are three parts done; put in half a pint of good mutton gravy, some lemon-juice, thickened with butter and flour; let them simmer four or five minutes, not longer, or they will he hard; lay them in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Mutton Collops a la Perigord.—Cut your mutton in thinner slices than usual, put them into a marinade of oil, with sweet herbs; having laid in this for some time, braise them with the same materials as mutton collops, adding marinade, and chopped truffles. Serve them with a ra- gout of the latter. Mutton a la Coquette.—Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, about the size of a finger, lard them quite through with ham and bacon; simmer them in some stock, with sweet herbs ; when done, take the meat out, reduce and strain the sauce over them. Then take some good fowl farce, cover each piece of muttou with this, wrap the whole in a slice of bacon ; wash them over with egg, cover with bread crumbs, and bake them. Mutton Cutlets en Haricot vierge.—Pre- pare the cutlets as for soubise ; but. serve them with a haricot vierge, instead of a soubise sauce. Mutton Cutlets a V Italienne. —Prepare them as for cutlets and cucumbers ; dip them into oiled butter, and then into bread crumbs ; broil them and serve with brown Italienne sauce. Mutton Cutlets Epigram.—Prepare them as for broiling, and serve in the middle a blanquelte of mutton cut from the leg or other part. Mutton Cutlets aux pois d’asperges, Saute, or lightly fry your cutlets in clarified butter; glaze them, squeeze a little lemon over them, Cayenne and salt; dish them, and serve in the middle a sauce of aspara- gus, peas, and button ouions. Mutton Cutlets(Broiled)Breaded*—Trim and season your cutlets with pepper and salt, put them into some melted buttert and when they have imbibed a sufficienr quantity of it, take them out, and cove, them completely with bread crumbs ; give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care not to do the cutlets too much, to burn the bread; serve with a sauce piquante. Mutton Cutlets in Caul.*—Lard and braise a dozen mutton cutlets, as for la soubise ; place a weight on them whilst they are cooling ; when cold, trim and wrap them in onions prepared as follows: cut twelve onions into dice, blanch and cool them ; then do them up in a little butter, with pepper, salt, garlic, bay leaf, and nut- meg ; add to these two ladiesful of veloutd, stir in the yolks of four eggs, and reduce the onions to a paste; as soon as it is cold, use it as above-mentioned; besides this, put on each cutlet a pig’s caul, lay them in a deep dish, and bake them to a nice colour ; serve them very hot, with a derai-glaze. Mutton Cutletswith Cucumbers, white*—■ Choose your cutlets rather thicker than usual, beat and lard them with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and spices ; put them into a pan with a little melted butter, brown, and then trim them. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, two carrots, cut in pieces, three onions, two cloves, a bayleaf, a little thyme; lay your cutlets on this, cover them with bacon, pour in a ladleful of stock, and simmer the cutlets in this. In about two hours take them out, drain and glaze them; dish them en couronnes with cucumbers au veloute in the centre. Mutton Cutlets and Cucumbers. — Cut •your cutlets neatly from the neck of mut- ton, have some parsley, shallot, and mush- rooms finely chopped; simmer them a short time in a little butter, with pepper, salt, and the squeeze of a lemon ; stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs; dip your cutlets into this preparation, then into bread crumbs ; form them neatly with your knife, and place on the cutlet pan with oiled butter, frv of a nice light brown co- lour on both sides, take them upon a clean cloth to press out the fat, dish them en couronne, and serve with a brown cucumber sauce : tomata sauce may be served instead of cucumber.360 MUT MUT Mutton Cutlets and Lettuces.*■—Having prepared and dressed the cutlets in the same manner as with cucumbers ; when done, glaze and disli them era couronne, al- ternately, with lettuces, glazed. Serve with a reduced espagnole. Mutton Cutlets a. la Soubise*—Prepare and dress your cutlets, as directed, with cucumbers done white; dish them en cou- ronnes, with a parte of white onions in the centre. Mutton (Curry rf.)*—Tate a fine loin of mutton, take off all the fat, cut the meat into dice, cut some onions also into dice, and fry them ; when nearly done, add the meat and curry powder (in the proportion of a table-spoonful to each pound of meat); fry them all lightly, add salt when almost brown, pour in two cupsful of water or stock, put the whole into a stewpan, cover and let it simmer for an hour or more, ac- cording to the quantity. Have some rice, boiled very dry, in a separate dish. Some persons add a little pickle. Mutton (Fillets of) a, la Gelee.—Take the filets from two loins of mutton, lard them with bacon, rolled in sweet herbs ; put them into a stewpan, lined with slices of bacon ; add the trimmings of the meat, two carrots cut in pieces, two onions, each with a clove in it, a good bunch of parsley, seasoned, a little salt and whole pepper, a glass of Madeira, and two ladiesful of con- somme, cover the whole with bacon, and a piece of buttered paper the size of the pan. Set it on the fire ; as soon as it boils, put it aside, with fire under and over, to sim- mer slowly for two hours ; then take it from the fire, and let the filets cool in their sauce. When nearly cold, drain and press them lightly between two dishes, and when quite cold, cut each filet in half, glaze them all over, dish them, and garnish over and round with jelly, disposed according to your fancy. Mutton Ctitlets a la Gelee are done in the same manner, except that they are larded both with bacon and ham. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise may be dressed without larding them, only braise and glaze them, and serve with the purie of onions in the middle, to which may be added a liason of two yolks of eggs, as a great improvement. Mutton Hams.—Cut a hind-quarter of mutton like a ham, and take one ounce of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, and the same quantity of common salt, mix them together, and rub them well into the mut- ton then lav it in a hollow tray, with the skin downwards, and baste it every day with the pickle for a fortnight. Roll it m sawdust, and hang it in wood-smoke for a fortnight. Then boil it, hang it in a dry place, and cut rashers off as you want them ; they eat much better broiled than any other way. Mutton (Harico of).—Cut some mutton chops rather thicker than for broiling ; trim them nicely, then fry the chops in a little butter, of a nice brown colour; drain off the butter, and make a roux, by putting to- gether in a stewpan, a small piece of fresh butter, and a spoonful of fine flour, placing them over a moderate fire, and stirring them with awooden spoon till the flour be- comes of a good brown colour ; moisten with veal gravy of a good colour, and well seasoned. When your sauce boils, put in the chops and the trimmings of your tur- nips, and let them stew gently on the cor- ner of the stove. Skim frequently: when the chops are nearly done, drain them into a clean stewpan; have ready some turnips, cut in neat shapes, but rather large pieces, add them to the chops; drain the sauce through a sieve, over the turnips and chops, then stew them in this sauce with a little sugar, and continue to skim frequently. Add a little oat soup, mus- tard, and tarragon vinegar, pepper and salt. When the turnips are done, keep them hot by the bain-marie till you serve. Mutton (Harrico).*—Take a scrag of mutton, make some good gravy with pars- ley, thyme, and winter savory, sliced car- rots, onions, and sbalots and celery, some turnips, well boiled and mashed, and a crust of white bread, stew altogether; then put in some steaks of a neck or loin (broiled first), and stew them in some thyme; season to your taste ; strain it off, and put in some carrots,broiled separately for that purpose. Mutton (Hashed)a la Bourgeoise.—Take what meat remains from a roast leg of mutton, which has been served the day before; cut off the skin, take away the coarse fibres, and cut the meat into small and thin pieces, put them into a saucepan ; then reduce a few spoonsful of cullis, and put it to the hash, with two ounces of butter; warm up the whole, taking care that it does not boil, and serve with soft poached eggs round ; season to taste. Mutton (Hashed) with Cucumbers.— Pare some cucumbers, and take out the seeds, then cut them into very thin slices ; and let them steep for two hours in vinegar and salt; drain them well nut them into361 MUT MUT a stewpan, and keep turning them over the lire, with a small piece of butter and a slice of ham, till they begin to take colour, adding a little flour, and moistening with equal quantities of stock and gravy. If you do not happen to have any gravy, let the cucumbers be more coloured before they are taken from the fire; they should then be stewed gently, occasionally skim- ming off the fat; when they are done, add a little cullis to thicken them. Having thus prepared your ragout of cucumbers, take any joint of cold roast mutton (the ! leg is the best), cut it into thin slices, and put it into the ragout to heat, but taking care not to let it boil; season to palate. Mutton (Hashed) with Jiine Herbs*— Cut your meat as directed for hashed mut- ton and poached eggs; dress it also in the i same manner, leave it in the saucepan; 1 put two ounces of butter into another sauce- i pan, with a dessert spoonful of shalots, shred small; set them on the fire, but do J not colour them; then take four spoonsful ! of mushrooms, all shred small, give them a few turns with the shalots, after which j add a dessert spoonful of shred parsley; stir them all together, reduce, and pour them on the hash ; give the whole a sim- mer, and then serve with sippets round. Mutton (Hashed') and Poached Eggs*— Cut the meat from a cold roasted leg of mutton, take out all the sinews, and skin, j mince it very small, and put it in a sauce- pan ; reduce four spoonsful of espagnole to one; pour it over the meat; mix it in well, set it on the fire, but do not let it boil; when done, pour it into a dish with fried bread, cut like corks, round, and poached .• eggs on it. Mutton (Haunch of).— It should be kept as long as you can possibly keep it sweet by the different modes ; and if ne- ’ cessary, wash it with warm milk and water, • or vinegar, and when going to be dressed, be careful to wash it well, to prevent the : outside from having a bad flavour from keeping ; before you put the haunch to the fire, fold it in a paste of coarse flour, and strong paper; then set it a good distance 'from the fire, and allow proportionable J time for the paste; do not take it off till about five minutes before serving the mut- ' ton, and then baste continually; bring the •' haunch nearer before taking off the paste, and froth it up in the same manner as ve- nison. For gravy, take a pound and a half of loin of mutton, and simmer it in a pint of water till reduced to half, use no season- ing but salt; brown it with a little burnt sugar, and serve it up in the dish ; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat, for though long at the fire, the cover- ing and distance will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly. Mutton (Leg of).—If your leg of mut- ton is roasted, serve with onion or currant- jelly sauce; if it is boiled, serve with caper-sauce and vegetables. In roasting or boiling, a quarter of an hour is usually allowed for each pound of meat. Mutton (Leg of) a. I’Anglaise.*—Lard the fleshy part of a leg of mutton with fat bacon, tie it with packthread, and put it into a pot just large enough to hold it, with some stock, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, a clove of garlic, three cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, some salt and pep- per ; when it is done, let it drain, wipe off the fat with a cloth, and serve with a sauce made in the following manner: put a tumblerful of stock, and nearly the same quantity of cullis, into a stewpan, with some capers and anchovies, a little parsley, a shalot, and the yolk of an egg boiled hard; let the sauce boil a few minutes, and serve it with the mutton. Mutton (Leg of) a la Bourgeoise.*— Take a nice round leg of mutton, bone it, and lard the inside of it with lardons rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; tie it up into its original form, and put it into a braising-pan, with a dozen carrots, a dozen onions, as many potatoes, two bay- leaves, two cloves, parsley, and a ladleful of stock or water; add to these a pound of bacon cut into six pieces, a little salt; sim- mer it for three hours and a half, stirring it occasionally; at the end of that time take out the mutton, untie, and dish it with the vegetables round it. Mutton (Leg of) with Cauliflowers and Parmesan Cheese*—Boil a leg of mutton a I’Anglaise, then blanch some cauliflowers, and boil them in another water, with a bit of butter and a little salt; then take the dish you intend to serve in, and put into it a little sauce made with cullis, a slice of butter, salt, coarse pepper, and thickened over the fire; put into the dish with this sauce some grated Parmesan cheese; put the mutton in the dish, and pour the re- mainder of the sauce over it, add more cheese, and set the dish upon a stove over a slow fire, under a cover that will admit fire at the top, until it be of a fine high brown, and the sauce thick ; before you serve it to table, drain off all the fat. Mutton (Leg of) with Endive.*—Cut the meat of a cold roasted leg of mutton362 MUT MUT into small thin pieces, and put them into a saucepan : blanch the hearts of some en- dive, then press out all the water, cutthem in pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter; add to it afterwards three ladiesful of espagnole, the same of consomme, a little salt, and whole pepp'er; reduce, and pour it on the mutton, stir them to- gether over the fire, but do not let it boil ; dish it en buisson, garnish with fried bread, and pour a very little espagnole over it. Mutton {Leg of) a l’Espagnole.—Bone a leg of mutton to the knuckle, lard it quite through with large pieces of bacon, sea- soned with salt and spices, then put itinto a braising-pan with about a dozen onions, and a pint of white wine, cover it with paper, and put it into the oven; when half done, turn it, add half a dozen short sau- sages, cover it again, and finish the baking; garnish the meat, when served, with onion, skim and strain the liquor, squeeze over it the juice of two oranges, and pour it on the mutton. Mutton (Leg of) a la Gasconne*—Bone a leg of mutton (excepting the knuckle) ; lard it with ten or a dozen cloves of garlic, and as many anchovies cut in pieces ; spit and roast it; when done serve with a ragout of garlic as follows: Put about a pound of garlic into a saucepan with some water 5 let it boil up frequently till nearly done ; then drain, and put it into another saucepan, with five spoonsful of reduced espagnole, a piece of butter, and a little gravy; pour this ragout round the mut- ton. Mutton (Leg of) au Haut gmlt.—Let it hang a fortnight in some airy place, stuff it with garlic, and rub it over with pepper and salt, and then roast it. Sauce : good gravy, with a spoonful of wine boiled in it. Mutton {Leg of) marinaded.—Lard the upper part of a leg of mutton, and let it soak for about twelve hours in a warm pickle of water, vinegar, garlic, cloves, onions, thyme, bay leaves, parsley, salt and pepper; after it has been this time in souk, roast it, basting it with the pickle; serve it with a liigh-liavoured sauce, or, if you like it better, pass the marinade through a sieve, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, add a little roux to thicken it, and serve. H you intend to use your marinade for a sauce, you must put in a very small quantity of salt. Mutton {Leg of) marinaded 1 enison Fashion*—Take a leg of mutton that has hung some days, lard the upper side with bacon, and lay it in the following marinade; vinegar and water, a lemon cut in slices, garlic, nutmeg, gloves, slices of onions, coriander bruised, thyme, bay leaf, parsley, scallions, salt and pepper; leave the mut- ton in this for twenty-four hours (or five or six days, if you like) ; then take it out, and roast it, basting it with the marinade strained; serve with its own gravy. Mutton {Leg of) stuffed*—Make a stuffing with a little beef suet chopped, some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a little grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, and a few bread crumbs; mix all to- gether with the yolk of an egg, put this under the skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton under the flap ; then roast it and serve it to table with aome good gravy in the dish. Mutton (Leg of) stuffed with Opsters.— Make a forcemeat of beef suet, chopped small, the yolks of hard boiled eggs, with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, sa- voury, and some oysters, a dozen or four- teen, all cut fine; some salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs: put this forcemeat under the skin in the thickest part of the leg of mutton, under the flap and at the knuckle. For sauce, some oyster liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and some more oysters stewed, and served under the mutton. Murrox (Loin of).—Roast it; some people think it eats much better if cut length-ways, like a saddle. It may also be used for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care to cut off as much fat as pos- sible. Mutton (Loin of) en Fricandeau.*— Trim and lard a loin of mutton ; take the trimmings of this, some beef and veal, lay them in a stewpan, the mutton on them, with carrots, onions, and a bouquet garni 1 add consomme, and cover it with a buttered paper, set it first on abrisk, and afterwards on a slow fire; let it stand till quite done; then take it out aud drain it, take off the skin, glaze, and serve it with a ragout of endive, or a puree of sorrel. Mutton (Loin of) larded with Parsley* Take three loins of mutton, cut your fillets from them, leaving out the chine; lara them with very green parsley, and soak them in oil, to which add salt and pepper. Pass a skewer through, fasten them to the spit, and roast them, basting with oil. Half an hour is sufficient to do them. Serve with the parsley upwards, and a cleur asnic.MUT 363 MUT Mutton [Loin of) forced.—Bone a loin of mutton that lias the whole flap on, flatten it, and cut nearly all the fat off, brash it over with beaten egg, sprinkle it over with pounded Spices and chopped herbs ; put a layer of forcemeat on it, roll it up, and secure it with string, and braise it the same as you would larded things; glaze it, and serve under it a reduced espagnole sauce, added to a few shallots chopped fine, I and boiled in a gill of port wine, and sea- : soned. Mutton (Neck of).—This joint is par- [ ticularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it. The bone ought to be cut short. The best end of the neck may be boiled, i and served with turnips ; or if you think proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in steaks, or made into pies, or used for harrico. You may stew the scrags in broth ; or in a little water, with small onions, some pep- percorns, and a small quantity of rice, all served together. When you wish that a neck which is to be boiled should look particularly well, tsaw down the chine bone, strip the ribs half way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. To make the fat look particularly white,' the skin should not be taken off till it is II boiled. Mutton (Neck of) larded with Ham and Anchovies.—Take the fillet of a neck of mutton, and lard it quite through with ham and anchovies, first rolled in chopped parsley, shalots, sweet herbs, pepper and ( salt. Then let it braise or stew in a little Istock, with a glass of white wine. When done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little ficullis to give it the proper consistence, if Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and il pour this sauce over the meat, and serve. - Mutton (Neck of) ala Ste. Menehould.*— [ITake two necks of mutton, cut off- the [ scrags; tie them up, and braise them in ! bacon, with three carrots four ouions, a ( bunch of parsley and two bay leaves, a ij little thyme, two cloves, and some mutton or veal trimmings; moisten them either with stock or water, add salt, and set them ; on the fire to simmer for four hours ; then I take them out, season with salt and pepper. [Dip them in melted butter, cover them f completely with bread crumbs, and about an hour before dinner, broil three sides of them, and colour the fourth with the salamander. Serve them with a clear 'gravy. Mutton (Neck of} with Parsley.*—Take either a neck, loin, or saddle of mutton, trim it, and lift up the skin underneath, larding the whole with sprigs of fresh parsley; put it on the spit to roast, and when the parsley is thoroughly well dried, baste it very frequently with hogs’ lard, until the meat is done; then toss up a little gravy, with some shalots cut small, salt and pepper, and serve it with the meat. Mutton (Neck of) with Roots. * — Having prepared your mutton by cutting off the scrag end, and tying it up, put some slices of bacon, any meat trimmings, four carrots, five onions (one of them stuck with three cloves), two bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley, and scallions, into a stewpan; put in the mut- ton, coverit with bacon, moisten them with stock or water, add salt to your taste, and set the stewpan on a brisk fire; as soon as it boils, lessen the fire, and let the meat stew four hours. When quite done, drain the mutton, dish, and pour the carrots, dressed en petits racines, over it. Mutton' (Neck or Scrag of).*—Stew a neck or scrag of mutton in a braising-pan, with some stock, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt: yon may serve it with a ragout of turnips, cucumbers, or celery, or with any sauce you think proper, or you may broil it like the breast of mutton. Mutton Pasty, to eat as nice us Venison. —Take a fat loin of mutton, and let it hang for several days, then bone it. Beat it well with a rolling pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over it one glass of port and one glass of vinegar. Let it lie for five days, after which, wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edge of the dish, and cover with a thick crust, other- wise it will be overdone before the meat is soaked ; it must be baked in a slow oven. Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with just sufficient water to cover them, and one glass of port, a small quantity of pepper and salt; by this means you will have a little rich gravy to add to tho pasty when drawn. Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, and a better flavour than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar is a great preservative. Mutton Patties, — Sheet some patty*MUT 364 MUT pans with good puff paste; have ready an emincee made as follows : Take the lean of part of a loin of mutton and a little of the fat, mince it fine, put it into a stew- pan with a small piece of butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and shalot, stir it about two minutes over the fire, when cold, put some into each patty-pan and cover them over with puff paste, brush them over with egg, bake them, but not too much, take the top crust off, pour in a little hot espagnole sauce seasoned with a little lemon juice, mix it well with the meat, put on the cover and serve them hot in a napkin. Mutton Pies.—Raise some small pies with paste for raised pies, decorate them, cut the lean part of a loin of mutton in thin slices, and kidneys also ; season them well with pepper, salt, and chopped pars- ley, and a very little onion, all tossed up in some clarified butter; place the meat neatly in the pie-cases, put on a puff paste cover, brush them all over with egg, bake for an hour, pour in some good hot gravy and serve them hot. Mutton Pie.—Take off the meat from part of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, and season with pepper and salt. Put a layer of chops in a deep dish, and upon them some slices of peeled potatoes, and some thin slices of onion ; put the remain- ing chops over, cover with puff paste, bake it, and add some cullis. The chops may be passed with sweet herbs, &c., and when cold, put into small or large raised crusts, with potatoes, and cullis added when baked. Mutton (Raised) Pie Male.—Take the best part of a leg of mutton, and mince with any sort of poultry, meat, or game, you may find convenient; also mince half a pound of beef suet, some ham, fat bacon, truffles, pistachio nuts, four or five yolks of hard eggs ; mix with these all sorts of spices, sweet herbs, and two glasses of brandy; make a good raised crust, into which put the above ; cover, and bake the pie in a moderate oven five or six hours. Serve it cold. Mutton (Polpeties of).*—Take the lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare off the skin, and mince the meat with a little grated bacon and calfs udder; sea- son with salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and parsley, shred small; unite them together with the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, and bread them twice. Flatten these balls a little, and fry them in clarified butter; I when done, drain and place them on the dish. Serve them with tomata sauce or demi glaze. Mutton Pudding. — Cut some slices < from a leg of mutton that has been under: done, and put them into a basin lined with -1 a nice suet crust. Season them with pep- • per, salt, and finely-shred onion or shalot. i Mutton Pudding.-—-Put a layer of steaks s | at the bottom of a dish, and season with . i salt, pepper, and a bit of onion; then pour r a batter of potatoes, boiled and press it ' through a cullender, and mixed with milk ; and an egg, over them ; then put another layer of steaks and more batter, and bake • | it. Mutton Rolls en Gratin.—Cut a neck : or leg of mutton into slices about the1 thickness of a crown piece, lay them se- • | parately on a dish, covered with chopped 1 parsley, shalots, scallions, and mushrooms;: season them with salt, pepper, and nut- • meg, and pour a sufficient quantity of oil I over to cover them. When they have - laid in this an hour, have some good fowl or veal farce ; put a piece about the size 1 of a walnut between each two slices of mutton, tie them together and braise the * I whole ; when about half done, add a glass ; \ of white wine. Take the crumb from as many small 11 rolls as you have parcels of mutton, which | untie and put into the crusts ; take some j farce made of poultry, livers, grated ba- « con, pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs ; put a layer of it on a dish for table (one that: | will bear the fire), place the rolls on it, J and set it on the fire to make the gratin. 1 When ready for table, pour some cullis I over the rolls, and serve them with a clear I sauce and lemon juice. Mutton Rumps a la Braise.—Take six I mutton rumps, and boil them for a quarter I of an hour; then take them out and cut I them in two, and put them into a stewpan I with half a pint of good gravy, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt; cover them close, and stew till they are tender; I then take out the onion, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it up till it is smooth, taking care that it is not too thick; put in the rumps, give them a toss or two, and dish them up hot. Garnish with horseradish and beet root. Mutton Rumps (Entree oj).—Clean the i rumps, and braise them till nearly done , then fry slips of bread the same breadthMUT MUT 365 and length; put a rump on each piece of bread, and over it grated Parmesan cheese; and upon the whole a little mustard, butter, and cullis, mixed together ; strew at the . top some fine bread crumbs. Bake the rumps till tender, and serve them in a little consommd thickened with the yolks of two eggs and a gill of cream. Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Boil half a dozen rumps, then stew them in some mutton gravy, more than will cover them ; let them stew gently for half an hour, then take them up and let them stand to cool; put into the gravy a quarter of a pound of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace ; let it boil till the rice is very thick ; take the rumps, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg well beat up, and then roll them in bread crumbs, a little pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, lemon peel grated, and a very little thyme ; fry them in butter till they are of a nice brown. Whilst the rumps are stewing, lard some kidneys, and put them in a Dutch oven to roast. When the rumps are fried, drain them; pour the fat out of the fryingpan, and put in the rice; stir it all together round the pan, and then lay the rice in a dish ; lay the rumps round upon the rice, the nar- row ends to meet in the middle ; boil four eggs hard, cut them in quarters, and lay the kidneys and hard eggs upon the rice between the rumps. Mutton Rumps (Marinaded').—Clean and cut the rumps into equal lengths, and lay them in a pan in the marinade liquor for one night, then pass them in butter till nearly done; lay them on a dish to cool, wash them over with the yolk of egg, and strew them over with bread crumbs. Fry them gently in boiling lard till done, and of a nice colour. Drain them dry, and serve them up with a very good seasoned cullis sauce, with ketchup in it. Mutton {Saddle of) baked.* — Prepare and dress a saddle of mutton, in every respect as for a remove (see that article) ; when cold, take oft the skin, trim and sea- son it with pepper and salt; brush it all over with melted butter, bread it, and then let it cool; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin, break four eggs on it, I add pepper and salt; beat them together- well, and wash the saddle over with it completely, and cover it well with the bread ; put the saddle on a baking-tin, and put it in the oven, which must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour of tire mutton. Mutton (Loin of) Braised*—Take the half of a saddle of mutton, and bone it, sea- son the inner part with salt and pepper, roll it up to the form of a long square, tie it up and braise it for two hours and a half; when ready for table, raise the skin and glaze it; put in the dish any purde or sauce you please. Mutton (Saddle of) Breaded a. I’An- glaise*—Take a saddle of mutton and braise it, and when done, season with pepper and salt, dip it in melted butter and bread it, then let it cool. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, as soon as it is melted, mix with it three eggs and a little salt; rub the saddle completely with this, roll it well in bread crumbs, give it a good form, and about three quar- ters of an hour before dinner broil it slowly, colour the top with a salaman- der. Serve the saddle with a clear gravy. Mutton (Saddle of) as a Remove.*— Take a whole saddle of mutton, let it be fat and well covered with skin ; bone the ribs to the spine, season the udder part with pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; fill each side with the meat from a leg of mutton, roll it in, taking care to make both the same size ; tie it up, and braise it, adding the ribs and leg-bone, for five hours; then drain and untie it, strip all the skin from the top, and either glaze or cover it with shred parsley : serve it with a clear gravy, and garnish your dish with glazed turnips, onions, or carrots. Mutton Sausages.—Take a pound of the rarest part of a leg of mutton which has been either roasted or boiled; chop it very fine, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. When thoroughly mixed, put all into a little pot, and use it by rolling it into little balls, or of a sausage shape, and fry them. A little shalot, or garlic, is a great improvement. Mutton (Shoulder of) roasted.—Serve with onion sauce. You may, if you choose, broil the blade bone. Mutton (Shoulder of) baked* Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked ba- con, put it into an earthen pan propor- tioned to the sizo of the joint of meat, with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two cloves, half a bay leaf and some basil, addMUT MUT 366 about a quarter of a pint of water or stock (stock is the best), some salt and pepper; put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an oven. When the meat is done, strain the sauce through a sieve, and skim it, squeezing the vegetables so as to make a j>ur6e to thicken your sauce: serve the sauce with the meat. Mutton (Shoulder of) broiled. — Take a shoulder of mutton that has hung some days, lard and braise it with the usual seasoning; when nearly done, take it out, mis some sweet herbs shred small, with grated bread ; cover your mutton with this, lay it on the gridiron, and broil it slowly, moistening it occasionally, with a little of the braise liquor. When quite done, disli it, serve with a cullis and vine- gar, or verjuice. Mutton (Shoulder of) a la Mdnihoulde.* —Stew a shoulder of mutton with a little stock, a bunch of parsley, and young onions, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, some thyme, basil, onions, carrots, pepper and salt; as soon as the mutton is done, take it out of the stewpan, drain and put it in the disli you intend to serve in; pour over it a thick sauce, made with two spoonsful of cullis, a little flour and butter, and the yolks of three eggs thickened over the fire; then strew grated bread over the mutton, and baste it carefully with the fat of the stew, browning the surface with a hot salamander. Serve with a clear shalot sauce, or simply with a little gravy, pepper and salt. Mutton (Shoulder of) with Onions Glares.*—Bone a plump shoulder of mutton to the shank bone; lard the in- terior with seasoned bacon, add salt and pepper; roll it up in the shape of a bal- loon, tie it, and braise it (bones also) for three hours and a half; then untie and place it in a dish ; glaze and serve it with glazed onions, and a reduced dspagnole. Mutton (Shoulder of) with Parmesan.— Braise a shoulder of mutton; then take some rice, boiled quite soft in broth, lay it pretty thickly on a dish, place the mut- ton on it; mix dry currants with the re- mainder of the rice, cover your meat with it; strew grated Parmesan cheese over the whole, and set it in a moderate oven ; when of a nice colour, take it out, aud serve with a clear sauce. Mutton (Shtndder of) with Rice.— Take a shoulder of mutton, and halt boil it; then put it in a stewpan, with two quarts of mutton gravy, a quarter of a pound of rice, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, with a little beaten mace, and let it stew till the rice is tender; then take up the mutton, and keep it hot: put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it well round the pan, and let it boil a few minutes; lay the mutton in the dish, and serve it I over the rice. Mutton (Shoulder of) en Saucisse.* i Bone a shoulder of mutton; spread it upon a board, and put over it, about the thickness of a crown piece, some veal forcemeat, and over that some pickled gherkins, and ham cut iu thin slices; ; spread another layer of forcemeat over the • ham and gherkins, merely to prevent their r falling off; then roll up the meat; wrap | it very tight in a linen cloth, and stew it with a little stock, a bunch of parsley, and ! i green onions, a clove of garlic, three cloves, . I some onions, carrots, parsnips, pepper and 1 salt. IVhen the meat is done, skim and 11 strain the sauce. Add a spoonful of cullis. . I if the sauce is too thin, and serve it over 1 the mutton. Mutton (Shoulder of) stewed with Ops- ■ | ters.—Let it hang for some days, then salt it well for two days; bone it, and j sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace i pounded; lay some oysters over, and roll ’ the meat up tight, and tie it. Stew it in a little water, with an onion, and a tew pepper corns, until it is quite tender. I Have ready a little good gravy, and some t i oysters stewed in it; thicken it with il some flour and butter, and when the tape is taken off the mutton, pour this sauce I over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan jl closely covered. Mutton (Slices of) en Chevreuil.—Cut t twelve thin slices of mutton neatly, and i lard them with bacon; let them soak in vinegar mixed with spices, a bunch of parsley, and an onion cut in slices, ior three days; when you wish to use the meat, cook it in a thick sauce till tender, and serve it with a sauce d la poivrade. Mutton (Slices of) with Cream.''—Cut a roasted loin of mutton into slices, which put into a stewpan; chop up some small onions, do them with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter and a little stock; and ■when nearly dissolved, add halt a pint of good cream, salt and pepper; let it boil five minntes, then put in the mutton, make them quite hot, but they must not boil. Serve them quickly. . # Mutton (Slices'of) d la Dauphine. — Cut a loin of mutton into slices, about four inches long, lard them with streakeaMYR S67 NEA bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and ginger, and cook them in a tightly closed sauce- pan. Make a farce, •with veal sweet- breads, fat livers, bacon, and sweet herbs, all chopped small; mix spices with the farce, and cover each of the slices with it (about half an inch in thickness); tie a slice of bacon round each carefully, and bake them. Mutton Steaks (Broiled). — Cut some mutton steaks from the loin, about half an ’ inch thick, take off the skin, and part ! of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks (place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn the steaks frequently; when they are done, put them into a hot dish, rub them with a little butter; slice a shalot very thin into the dish : add a little ketchup; garnish with scraped horsera- dish and pickles, and send them up hot to table. Mutton Steuks a, la Maintenon.—Half fry the steaks with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Take care that the paper does not catch; to prevent which rub a bit of butter on first ; to be served with a shax-p sauce in a boat. Mutton (Tourte of).—Cut the meat of a neck of mutton into thin slices; also slice some onions; line a dish with puff paste, at the bottom of which, put a layer !of godiveau; place some of the mutton on this, then a part of the onions, season with pepper and salt; on these, put ano- ther layer of godiveau, then the mutton, onions, and so on, alternately, till all is used; then cover them with butter, and it thin slices of bacon; lay a crust over, fj and bake it about an hour and a half, or 'I more, according to its size. When done, 1 remove the top, take out the bacon, skim it well, and pour in some cullis, in which a little mustard is mixed ; take care the sauce runs into all parts; replace the top, i and serve it. r M\ R I LL (Oil of).*—Put two ounces ot peach leaves, and the half of a nutmeg 1 "ru*se(li into six quarts of brandy; distil , , om this in a bain-marie alembic your !] liqueur, in which infuse half a pound I of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve five pounds of sugar in three quarts of 1 pure river water; the moment it bcrins to boil, take it from the fire, and le”t it cool; take the myrtle flowers from the liqueur, and put in the sugar; mix them tvoll, colour it with tincture of saffron strain and bottle it. N. NASTURTIUMS (Pickled).—As soon as the blossoms are off', gather the little knobs; put them into cold water with some salt; shift them once a day for three suc- cessive days; make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, shalot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quar- ters, and horseradish, and put your nas- turtium buds into this pickle. NEAT’S Feet (Fried),—Boil yourneat’s feet, and split them; then fry them in clarified butter, or take out the bone, and fry them in butter with a little salt, and some good stock; when you have fried them a little, put in some mint, thyme, and parsley, shred small, and some beaten pepper; beat the yolks of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice of lemon, or orange and nutmeg, pour the sauce upon them, and serve. Neat’s Foot Pudding.—Boil a couple of neat’s feet till they are tender, mince the meat small, with an equal quantity of beef suet; season them with salt, cinna- mon, and sugar, mince a quarter of a pound of orange peel very fine, put in two liandsful of grated bread, six or eight eggs, and currants at pleasure; mix all these well together: butter a pudding- bag, put in your pudding, tie it up close, and let it boil for two hours; serve with sweet sauce. Neat’s Tongue en Bresalles.* — Par- boil a neat’s tongue in water, then take oft the skin, and cut the tongue into small thin slices, about the size of half a crown; put them into a stewpan, with parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, the whole cut small, add whole pepper, and sweet oil; put it over a very slow fire, adding a glass of white wine as soon as it begins to boil ; when quite done, add a little cullis; if it should not be sufficiently highly fla- voured, you may add in serving the juice of a lemon. Neat’s Tongue in Caul. — Boil a tongue sufficiently to peel, then lard it, and split it, without separating it in two ; fry some sliced onions in fresh hog’s lard, put to them two or three spoonsful of hog’s blood, about a quarterof a pound of lard chopped, a few fine spices, and salt; simmer this, stirring continually, until the blood is well nnxed; lay a caul in the bottom of your dish, and spread upon it part of this prepa- ration ; then place in the tongue, and cover it with the remainder; roll it up in the368 NEA NEA caul, and garnish the dish with bread crumbs ; lastly, put it into the oven to bake, and take a good colour; clean the dish free from fat, and serve it under a sauce, made with a little cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. Neat’s Tongue a I’Ecarlnte.—Thorough- ly rub a neat’s tongue with two ounces of saltpetre in powder ; put it into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper, a bay leaf, and thyme, and soak it in this brine for five or six days; when you wish to use the tongue, put it in water for three hours, then blanch it in boiling water, and taking it out, boil it in another vessel by a slow fire, for two or three hours, adding at the same time a third ot its brine, with carrots, onions, cloves, salt, pepper, and a sufficient quantity of water. When done, take it off the fire, leaving it to cool in its sauce; serve. Neat’s Tongue (Fresh) in. a plain way. —Lard a tongue with tolerable-sized lar- dons, and boil it in broth, or in water, with a few onions and roots ; when it is done, peel it, and serve it with broth, sprinkling it over with a little pepper and salt; it is also used without larding, and being boiled fresh in this manner is considered very good for mince pie meat. Neat’s Tongue (Fried.).—Boil it, then cut it into thin slices, season it with nutmeg, cinnamon, and sugar; dip the slices of tongue into yolks of eggs, adding a little lemon juice; make some butter very hot in a frying pan, fry your tongue, and pour the eggs in by spoonsful; and when they are done, serve them up with white wine, butter and sugar, well beaten together. Neat’s Tongue en Gratia *—Blanch a neat’s tongue, and put it into a stewpan, and let it boil with any other meat till the skin will come off'easily ; then cut it into pieces, and shred small some parsley, green onions, some tarragon leaves, a few shalots, a few capers, and one anchovy ; then mix a handful of grated bread crumbs, with a piece of butter half the size of an egg, and a part of the herbs that have been shredded, und arrange them in a dish that will bear the fire; upon these crumbs and herbs, &cc.., place half the slices of tongue, sea- soning with salt and coarse pepper ; moisten the whole with three or tour spoonsful ot stock and half a glass ot wine ; let the whole stew over a stovo till it terms a gra- tia at tlio bottom of the dish ; when you servo, add a little inoro stock to serve as a sauce. , Neat's Tongue and Parmesan Cheese. — Boil a tongue in plain water, and finish it in a braise, with a little salt; take off the skin, let it cool, then cut it in slices; put a little cullis and Parmesan into the dish in which you intend to serve, with some of the tongue slices; then put in a little mere cullis and Parmesan, and so on, taking care that the cheese is put on the last; bake it of a good colour, either in a Dutch or common oven. Neat’s Tongue with Parsley.*—Let a neat’s tongue blanch a quarter of an hour in water, lard it with fat bacon, and let it boil with any piece of meat you may have cooking ; when done, and the skin taken off, cut it rather more than half way through the middle lengthwise, so that it may open in two parts without the pieces separating, and serve it with some stock, white pepper, and parsley finely shred, adding, it you think proper, a sprinkling of vinegar. Neat’s Tongue (Pickled).— lake neats tongues that look red out of the pickles, cut°off the roots, and let them boil till the skin will come off easily; season them with salt, pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, rubbing it well into them while they are hot; then put them into apan, cover them with melted butter, bake them; when they are done, pour off all the butter, keep back the gravy, put them into a fresh pan, and cover them with more butter an inch thick. _ Neat’s Tongue Pie, with liaised or Puff Paste.—Scald a tongue, and boil it in plain water ; when almost done, peel it, and cut it in slices; make what paste you please; put the slices of tongue upon it, with pepper and salt, two good slices of ham, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, three heads of cloves', thyme, and a bay leaf; cover it with slices of bacon and butter, and put in the oven to bake; when done, take out the bacon and parsley, skim the fat off very clean, and add a Spanish sauce, or any other that you may think better. Neat’s Tongue llagoht.—Lara a tongue with large lardons, and braise it in a light braise, with broth, a bunch of parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, two heads of cloves, one of garlic, onions, and roots; peel it, and split it in two ; serve upon it what ragout vou think proper, such as sweet- breads,'truffles, mushrooms, small onions, &c Neat’s Tongue ( Roasted).-Scald a tongue parboil it in broth or water, with salt ana pepper, two onions, carrots, parsnip.* faggot, two cloves, garlic, a bay leaf and thyme ; when boiled enough to peel, takeNOU 369 NEC it out, lard it as a fricandeau, and finish it in roasting. Serve under a relishing sauce, or send it up plain. Neat’s Tongue Roasted a la Franfaise.— Boil a neat’s tongue, and blanch it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a hole in the under part, and take out the meat, mince it with ttvo or three hard eggs, an apple, beef suet, and bacon; season with salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred very i fine; stuff the tongue with this forcemeat; i then cover the end with a veal caul, lard it with bacon, and roast it; serve with a i sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice of oranges, garnish the dish with sliced lemon peel and barberries. Neat’s Tongue, with Truffles.—Boil a pickled neat’s tongue two hours ; take off )i the skin, let it remain cool ; then cut a I large incision in the under part, and fill it with light forcemeat, with some green truffles pounded in it, sew it up, trim it neatly, rub it over with yolk of egg, and '( cover it with paste made with beef marrow, I instead of butter; afterwards wash the paste over with white of egg, ornament it in the same manner as a raised pie, with the remaining part of the paste, then bake iit till tender in a moderately heated oven, and serve it up with truffle sauce under, or it may be served with stewed spinach or turnips. It map be eaten until chickens, turkey, ! or roast veal. NECTARINES (Conserve of).—Peel ripe nectarines, slice, and boil them to a marmalade, with a drop of water; reduce I it pretty thick on the fire, mix a quarter of a pound of the marmalade to a pound of sugar, a la grande plume (ninth degree), - and work it well together when it begins to cool, and finish as all others. Nectarine Ice.—Use either marmalade or jelly (which is made the same as peach or apricot jelly), or, if when nectarines are in season, cut seven or eight of them when j quite ripe, bruise them, boil them in a l: pint of water; then sift them; put a suffi- | cient quantity of sugar to the sifted juice ; ! and finish the same as all others. Nectarines (to keep).*—This fruit is '1 bottled in a similar manner to apricots ; j the nectarines should be gathered perfectly ripe, and the skin taken off with great care. Nectarines (to preserve).—Split the i nectarines, and take out the stones, then 1 put them into clarified sugar; boil them till they have thoroughly taken the sugar, I take off all the scum, cover them with a paper, and set them by ; the following day boil a little more sugar to a strong souffle, put it to the nectarines, and give them a good boil; take off the scum, cover them, and put them into the stove; the next day drain them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted them a little with sugar, then put them into the stove again. Nectarines (Liquid Sweetmeat of).— The nectarines should be almost ripe ; peel and cut them in halves, simmer them in boiling water till they rise on the sur- face, and then drain them ; boil them in clarified sugar till there is no longer any scum rises, and leave them therein till the next day; then drain them, and boil the sugar to the seventh degree, add the fruit to it to boil a moment, and repeat the same again the following day ; let the fruit and sugar incorporate together for a couple of days, before you put them into pots, and keep the pan in a warm place ; the propor- tion of fruit and sugar in equal quantities. NIVERN OISE.*—Take thirty small carrots, and cut them into pieces like olives, scald them for about five minutes ; drain, cool, and then put them into a 6tewpan, with sufficient plain or root con- somme to cover them ; let the whole boil until the carrots are done, and well incor- porated with the liquor; then use it with the articles requiring it. NONPAREIL.*—Poppy seeds sugared in the manner directed under the article Sugared Seeds, are called Nonpareils ; they are tinged of different colours, by the in- troduction of the various colouring ma- terials into the sugar with which they are covered. NOUGAT.*—Blanch and wash a pound of sweet almonds, and having diained them well, cut each into five slips, which place in a gentle oven to dry white; or let them be all equally coloured of a ci ear yellow ; in the mean time, put three quar- ters of a pound of fine sugar into a pre- serving pan, set it on a stove, stirring with a wooden spoon until completely dis- solved ; then take the almonds out of the oven, and whilst hot throw thorn into the liquid sugar; mix them together well. Hove ready a mould well oiled, of any shape you think proper, in the interior of which place the almonds, by means of a lemon ; when the wbolo is covered, remove the mould carefully, and sorvo the nougat. Noucats ii la Franfaise* — Having blanched three quarters of a pound of fil- berts, separate each nut in half, lay them on a tin-plate, and place them in a slow 2 uOAT NUT 370 oven: move them occasionally, that they may all be equally coloured ; and when they are tinged sufficiently, remove them to the mouth of the oven. Put six ounces of sugar and a glass of water into a pre- serving pan, boil them to caramel, pour the filberts into this, stirring them very lightly lest they should break. As soon ;ts°the nougat assumes a clear reddish tinge, pour it on a buttered tin, over which spread it as quickly as possible, and strew on its surface sugar a la grtle, and pistachios, (cut in slips, and dried in the oven), lay it about eight inches long, six wide, and of an equal thickness all over; take care not to press it too much with your hands. When cold enough to resist the knife, and yet sufficiently warm not to break, cut it into about thirty pieces, all of the same size, arrange them tastefully on a dish, and serve NOUILLES (Potage of).* Take three quarters of a pound of flour, the yolks o f four eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little water ; mix these together, and knead it well until the paste is fit to roll; lay it out quite thin, and then cut it into slips ; fiour them well to prevent their sticking too-ether : have boiling some good stock, into which throw the nouilles, having previously blanched them in water, halt an hour is sufficient to do them ; skim the soup well, and add, just before it is put into the tureen, some whole pepper; serve it as usual. .,, Nouilles may also he made witn the whites instead of the yolks of eggs ; tiu - meg and pepper may be added to the paste, if agreeable. e NOYAU (English).*—Two gallons of 5in, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound of sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste; six pounds of lump sugar, pounded (some of it with the almonds). Let these stand ten days in the gin, then filter it through blotting paper, and bot- N UT Bomboons.—Boil a pound of Span- ish nuts ; when they are well boiled, rub off their skin with a napkin, it some stick too hard, pare it off with a knife; grate vour nuts very fine on a sheet of paper, then fit a pound of powdered sugar to a pound of nuts, put it in a pan over a slow & “ when your sugar is all melted (you must stir it constantly with a wooden spoon) put your nuts m, and work them well till' .if U well n,i«d. P«"t « upon a tin plate ; then spread it with a rolling pin, this mustbe done very quickly, as it cools very fast; when it is cold, cut it into what form you please ; you must take care the sugar is not too much melted, for it is very apt to soften when the nuts are added to it. Nuts Pralined. — Take a pound of j Spanish nuts, take them out of their shells, and put them into a pan, with a pound of loaf sugar, and a little water; || let them boil till they begin to sparkle; then take them off the fire, and stir them well with a wooden spoon, till you per- ceive the sugar turns gravely ; then set them again over a slow fire, to dissolve the sugar; keep stirring, that the sugar : i may stick to the nuts, and when you see them turn reddish, and are well covered with sugar, take them off, pour them into a sieved cover them with a clean cloth, | and put them into a stove ; this will pre- serve their gloss. NUTMEGS (to Candy).—Take a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-water, \ and a very little gum arabic; boil these to a candy height; let your nutmegs be first soaked in water ; then put them into an earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep them very close covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks, and they will be of a rock candy. Nutmeg Syrup.—Take a quarter of a pound of nutmegs, pound them, and put them into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of hot water, and let them boil tor half an hour; then strain, and to a pint of liquor, put two pounds of sifted sugar, and one egg, beaten up with a little col water; set it over a fire, and when boils, skim it till it is perfectly free from all scum, and reduced to a good syrup, and, when cold, mix it with half a pint ot ^Nutmeg ( Tincture of). - Take three ounces of nutmegs, bruise them, and pu them into a quart of brandy, and let them steep in it for a fortnight, occasionally giving it a shako up; then pour the ,iqzr it*-*- wr *. as of nutmegs ; then take an ounce of orang peel, three gallons of rectihed wine, and a sufficient quantity ot ^ distil them, and sweeten them with pounds of loaf sugar. O. OAT Cakes— are made in the same manner as muffins, using sifted371 OIL OLI instead of flour, and three gallons of water instead of two : pull the dough into pieces, roll and finish the cakes as di- i rected for muffins. When wanted, pull i the edges apart, toast them nicely on , both sides, and then open them com- pletely; lay in small pieces of butter, ) until you hare as much as you may want; close them again, set them before the fire, and cut each in halres or quarters. Oatmeal Pudding.—Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the very best i fine oatmeal; let it soak all night; the ■j next day beat two eggs, and mix a little I salt: put it in a basin just large enough to hold it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold,' slice and toast it, and eat it as oak cake buttered. Oatmeal Pudding (New England Fashion ).—Steep a pint of whole oatmeal in a quart of boiling milk the over night; in the morning shred half a pound of beef suet very fine, and mix with the oatmeal and milk some grated nutmeg and a little salt, with the yolks and whites of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of cur- rants,^ a quarter of a pound of raisins, and a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten it; stir the whole well together, tie it pretty close, and boil it for two hours. Serve with melted butter for sauce. OIL of Jupiter.*—Take three quarts of spirits of wine, flavoured with essential oil of lemon, the same quantity flavoured with spirit of cedrat; make a syrup with seven pounds of sugar, a gallon of water, and two bottles of Scubac; mix the whole together, and by stirring it will become thick; to clarify it, take the whites of two eggs in about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards put it to the whole ; stir it; then put it into a still in the bain- marie moderately heated : let it remain for twelve hours; filter the produce of your distillation, and bottle it. Oil oj Venus.* Reduce the following articles to an impalpable powder : an Ounce of skirret seeds, an ounce of carra- way seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a | drachm and a half of mace, and the rind 1 of an orange ; infuse these for five days I in a ^gallon of brandy, then distil from it j in a bain-marie, two quarts of liqueur; i| dissolve over the fire four pounds of II sugar in two quarts of pure water; when cold, mix it with the distilled liqueur, and colour it of a clear yellow, with a little tincture of saflron; filter and bottle it; seal the corks. Oil Toast.—Toast some slices of bread, and whilst hot, baste them with oil and lemon juice; pepper and salt them, and serve very hot. OLIO (a French one). — Take five pounds of steak, cut very thick, from the leg ot mutton piece of beef; put them into a deep stewpan, add five pounds of any part of veal, and a leg of mutton of about six or seven pounds, which must be skinned and have the fat taken off; cover it very closely, and set it over the stove with a very moderate fire ; let it stand till the gravy begins to run ; quicken the fire, and let it stand till the meat be- gins to stick to the pan, but not longer, as it should not be too brown ; pour a little beef gravy into it, and stir it about; when thoroughly mixed, put it into a pot, set it upon the fire very closely covered, with a sufficient quantity of gravy to fill the pot; then take twelve carrots, nine parsnips, eight onions, and six turnips; put these into the pot, with a bunch of leeks, a bundle of celery, and a handful of suet; let these boil well together, and then put in a fowl, a turkey, and a couple of pigeons; add a couple of pounds of ham, cut in thick slices; keep it boiling, an d as the scum rises, skim it off very clean ; while these are doing, take four French rolls rasped, pare oft the crusts, and put them into a stewpan with a little of the olio liquor; when they are soft, put them into a tureen or into a very deep soup dish; pour in the liquor ; let there be some celery, and some of the other roots put in, witli some of the best pieces of the meat, and the pigeons put in whole. This is the way to make the plain Frencli olio; but they often put in partridges to stew in the gravy, sometimes half roasting them before they put them in. Olio (Maigre). — Scald all sorts of roots, such as onions, carrots, parsnips, parsley roots, turnips, celery, and leeks ; then boil them in some pease broth, with a mignonette, and some carp trimmings ; when tlie above vegetables are sufficiently done, put in a little root gravy, strain and set it by for any purpose which you may require. Olio (Spanish).*—Take ten pounds of rump of beef, a brisket of veal, a breast of mutton, a knuckle of ham, a chicken, two pigeons, two quails, two old par- tridges, larded and trussed like chickens, a duck, a pound of streaked bacon, a raw 2 u 2372 OLI OLI German sausage, eight small sausages, seasoned high ; tie all these up that they may not fall to pieces, put them into a hraising-pan, with some dry peas (put in warm water the night before). Moisten the whole with good stock, season it with six pimento, four cloves, a little mace, and some nutmeg, all tied in a piece of muslin ; let this hoil for some hours. Take four cahhages, ten lettuces, thirty carrots, as many turnips, blanch and put them into a stewpan covered with slices of bacon, moisten them with the skimmings of the braise; then take a dozen artichoke- bottoms ( trimmed properly and cooked in a blanc ), twenty-four glazed onions, a few small carrots and turnips cut into olives, blanched and dressed in a little consomme and sugar, some French beans cut in lozenges, young beans, peas, and cucumbers, all blanched separately. Drain the meat and vegetables, strain the liquor, skim and clarify and keep it boiling. Press the cabbages and lettuces, and dish them as follows : A piece of cabbage, a carrot, a lettuce, a turnip, and cabbage again, and so on, till you have made a complete circle round your dish ; in the centre put the peas and meat, arrange the artichoke bottoms on tlm vegetables at equal distances, a glazed onion between each, and having tossed up the small vegetables in a little butter and glaze, place a few in every one of the artichoke bottoms. Glaze the whole and serve it. Olio (Spanish).—Take some gristles from a breast of veal, also from a brisket of beef, and from a breast of mutton, some sheep’s rumps cut in pieces ; they must all be about the size of a finger; take also five pounds of beef steaks, and put them, into a stewing pan, with a quantity of beet, stock, a hunch of leeks, a large bunch of celery, they must be stewed till the rumps and gristles are tender; then put in a couple of pigeons, a brace of partridges, two pair of hog’s feet and ears, the knuckle end of a ham, half of a fine white cabbage, some popper, salt, a bunch of sweet basil, two onions, and some cloves ; cover these over with some thick beef steaks, and over them some veal steaks, pour a little fresh stock upon them, and leave them to stew over a gentle fire ; let the whole stew till the liquor is evaporated and the ingredients begin to stick at the bottom ; then put in more stock ; while these are stewing, set on some large peas that have been previously soaked in water for four and twenty hours ; sot these on to hoil in somo gravy. I he Spaniards make use of a kind of peas, called Caravances ; they are large, and not unlike our grey peas ; hut if these are not to be had, any large peas will do; these must be boiled very tender, and be ready at the same time as the olio. A s the stock boils away, put in more ; season the olio according to taste, with pepper and salt; have ready a large soup dish, take out the ingredients, one by one, lay them in the dish ; the gristles and the roots must he dispersed about among the othertliings; then pour over them the peas and their gravy, and then put in a proper quantity of gravy. It must not he eaten as a soup but as an olio, the ingredients in prefer- ence to the liquor. Those who prefer the soup may have it in a basin with toasted 1 bread. OLIYF.S.—There are three sorts, the Italian, Spanish, and French; they may he had of various sizes and flavours, some • prefer one sort, and some another. The fine salad oil is made from this i fruit, for which purpose they are gathered ripe ; for pickling they are gathered when only half ripe, at the latter end of June; they are put into fresh water to soak for a couple of days; after this they are thrown : into lime water, in which some pearl ashes have been dissolved ; in this liquor they lie for six and thirty hours ; they are then put into water which has had bay salt dissolved in it; this is the last preparation, and they are sent over to us in this liquor ; the) are naturally, as thev grow on the tree, ex- tremely hitter, and therefore all these pre- pations are necessary to bring them to their fine flavour. To some olives they add a small quantity of essence of spices, which is an oil drawn from cloves, nutmeg, cin- namon, coriander, and sweet fennel-seed, distilled together for that purpose ; twelve^ drops are sufficient for a bushel of olives; some prefer them flavoured with this essence. Olives (Uogout of)*—Take some very green olives, cut out the stones, so that the fruit may close to its original form ; pat them, one by one, into water, blanch, and then put them into a good cullis, well S°(Lives (Bagcut of).*-Take a small quantity of parsley and scallions, shred and give them a few turns in butter, wi h a little flower; add to this two spoonsful of n-ravv, a glass of Champagne, capers cut small, an anchovy, some olives, without their stones, a drop of oli ve oil, an good cullis ; season it well, clear away thOME OME 373 j fat, and serve it with roast meat of various i kinds. OMELET. —Take eight eggs, break them into a basin, add salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, two spoonsful of cream, two ounces of butter, broke into small pieces, parsley . and shallot finely chopped and washed in a cloth; beat these ingredients well to- gether, then have your omelet pan ready, which should be kept expressly for that purpose, if in the habit of frequently wanting it; put about an ounce of butter in it, heat it over a brisk fire, and before your butter burns to a bad colour, put in the eggs; as they set, continue to stir it about with a spoon, drawing it away from the sides, to allow the whole to be fried ; shake it now and then; put it compactly together, and when you think it a nice clear brown, turn it over into your dish ; serve very hot with little Italienne sauce round it. Omelet a la Celestine*—Make four omelets, of three eggs each, and as thin as possible ; slide them carefully on the table, lay frangipane on, and roll them up into the form of a muff, trim the ends and place them on a dish, sprinkle them with powder-sugar, glaze, and serve them. Omelet a la Creme.—Boil a pint of cream, and put into it the crumb of a French roll, paisley, shalots (both shred small), a little pepper and salt; stir it over the fire till quite thick; then add half a dozen eggs; fry your omelet, ob- serve that it will require rather more time than usual. Omelets a la Dauphine.—Having made one or two thin omelets (without any sea- soning), lay them on a dish, and spread over them some pistachio cream, cherry and apricot marmalade; roll them up, cut them into small pieces, each of which enclose in almond paste ; strew pow- der sugar over, and glaze them with a salamander. Omelets of Eggs for garnishing or cutting in Slips.—Break your eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate pans; beat them up with a little salt, and then put them again into separate earthen ves- sels rubbed with sweet oil. Have ready I a pot of boiling water over a fire ; put them in closely covered, and let the omelets steam till thoroughly done. Omelet a la Fermiere.— Break the num- ber of eggs you think necesary for the size of the omelet, beat them up witli chopped parsley, shalots, sorrel, pepper, and salt; fry it as usual; when done, put a piece of fried bread on it; roll the omelet round, and serve it. Omelet Fritters.—Make two or three thin omelets, adding a little sweet basil to the usual ingredients ; cut them into small pieces and roll them into the form of olives; when cold, dip them into batter, or enclose them in puff paste; fry, and serve them with fried parsley. Omelet a la Gend’arme.—Make a ragout with sorrel, Parmesan cheese grated, and bread crumbs; fry two omelets in the usual manner, between which put the above ragout; place them on a dish; cut some pieces of bread, fry them, dip the edge of each in some white of egg to make them stick, set them round the omelet, over which pour a little melted butter, strew bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese on it, and colour it in the oven or with a sala- mander. Omelet Glacee.*—Whip up some fresh eggs with a small quantity of salt, a little candied lemon peel, and pounded maca- roons ; beat them together well, and then fry them as usual, sprinkle the omelet with sugar, glaze with the salamander, and serve. Omelets en Hatereaux. — Make your omelets thin, with sweet herbs, oil instead of butter, pepper, and salt; cut them into pieces, between two of which place fried bread and anchovies cut in filets or slips ; serve them hot. Omelet a VItalienne* — Break your eggs as usual, add salt, pepper, shred parsley, cream, and olive-oil; beat these ingredients well, and make three or four omelets of them, thin, but not too dry ; cut some anchovies into thin slips, which lay on each of the omelets, placing the latter one on the other; cement them to- gether, and when cold, having beaten up two eggs, dip in the omelets, bread and fry them to a nice colour. Omelet a la Jardiniere.*—Make a rich ragout of all sorts of vegetables which may be in season, half of which put to a dozen eggs, beat them together, and fry your omelet as usual; when done, pour the remainder of the ragout over, and serve. Omelet au Naturel.*—Break eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of cold water, beat them up with a whisk ; in the mean time put some fresh butter into a frying pan, when it is quite molted and nearly boiling, put in the eggs, &c. with a skimmer; as it is frying, take up the edges, that they mayONI 374 ONI be properly done; when cooked, double it; serve very hot. Omelet au Sang.—This is made pre- cisely the same as the common omelet; the only difference consists in the addition of poultry or lamb's blood to the usual ingre- dients. Omelet SouffUe.*—Break six eggs, sepa- rate the white from the yolks, to the latter put four dessert spoonsful of powder sugar, and the rind of a lemon chopped exceedingly small; mix them well, whip the whites as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest: put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying pan, over a brisk fire ; as soon as it is completely melted, pour in the above, stir it up that the butter may he thoroughly incorporated with the ome- let, and when that is the case, put it into a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes, strew powder sugar over, and colour the top carefully with a salamander. Some only use a very small quantity of butter in frying or setting it, before baking. Omelet SoujjUe, in a Mould*—Break six fine eggs, separate the whites and yolks : put to the latter three spoonsful of powder sugar, four crushed macaroons, a spoonful of potatoe flour, a little crisped orange flower in powder; stir them together well, whip the whites to a froth, mix them with the yolks, and pour the whole into a but- tered mould, but do not fill it; set it in a moderate oven, the same as for biscuits ; when done, turn it out on a dish, and serve it. This omelet should be of a clear co- lour, and shake like a jelly. Omelet (Stuffed).*■—Make your omelet as au naturel, but before you turn the ends over, lay on it a farce of sorrel; double the omelet before you take it from the pan, so that none of the farce may be perceived, and cement the edges with white of eggs; serve it very hot. Any other sort of farce may be applied in the same way. Omelet with Sweetmeats* — Make an omelet with nine eggs ; when quite done, spread over with any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper; roll it up to the form of a muff, strew powdered sugar over ; make a skewer quite hot, and mark the top. ONIONS with Carp Rocs—Blake a mux with butter and flour, to which add a littlo onion gravy, some largo onions (previ- ously scalded), a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, basil, bay leaf, and a few cloves; whon nearly done, put in some carp roes, and leave them a little longer; then take out the parsley, reduce the sauce ready for table, put in a few capers chopped, and one or two ancho- vies ; garnish your dish with fried bread. Onion Cullis (Maigre of).—Put some sliced onions into a pan with a little but- ter, set it on a brisk fire; when brown, add two spoonsful of flour, keep it stir- ring, put to it some broth, a glass of white wine, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil; let it boil for an hour, skim, and rub it through a sieve, with seasoning accord- ing to your taste. Onions ( Garbure of).—Take about forty onions, cut them into quarters, which di- vide into two or three slices (having taken off the skins, heads, and stalks); put about half a pound of butter into a pan, and when it is melted, fry the onions in it, of a nice clear colour. Then have some bread cut in thin slices; place a layer of this on a dish, then a layer of onions, and so on alternately, until the dish is quite full, strewing pepper and salt between each. Pour some stock over the whole, and set it on the fire to simmer till the gratin is formed, taking great care not to let it burn, as that will make it bitter, but all the moisture must be completely dried up. Have some broth in a separate dish, and serve it. Onions (Glazed).*—Choose your onions as near of a size as you can, peel them with care: butter the bottom of your stewpan, lay the onions on it head down- wards, a piece of sugar the size of a wal- nut, and a sufficient quantity of stock or water, to reach the tails of the onions; set them on a brisk fire; when the liquor is reduced to about three-fourths, lessen your fire, and let it stand till it becomes quite a jelly. 1 Large or small onions may be glazed thus, being careful, however (as above mentioned), to select them as nearly' oi a size as possible. Onions (Matelote of ).•—Take seven or eight pieces of ox tails, and having scalded, braise them in some stock, with parsley, two cloves, thyme, hay leaf, pepper, and salt; when about half done, put in eight large onions (previously scalded) ; as soon as they' are quite done, take them out, strain the sauce, to which add a glass of port wine and some cullis. Serve your matelote as usual. (See Matelote.) Onion Omelet.*— Cut some very white onions into slices, give them a few turns over the fire ; when nearly done, moisten them with cream, and season with sa ,QNI ONI 3 75 , pepper, and nutmeg; mix this with half a dozen eggs; beat the whole up well, Sand fry the omelet either in oil or butter. Onion Omelet.—Take two or three good I sized onions, cut them into slices, and fry them in butter ; when they are done, add the yolks of two eggs, and a little chopped ' parsley; fry two small omelets, on which lay the onions, with two or three ancho- [vies, cut in slips; roll them up length- wise ; fry some pieces of crumb, cut the omelets to the shape and size of these, and place them thereon; pour melted but- ter, and strew bread crumbs and grated Parmesan oyer them, and colour it in the oyen. Onions with Parmesan Cheese.—Pare six large mild onions, and cut them into round slices, half an inch in thickness. Then make a batter with flour, half a gill of cream, a little pepper, salt, and three eggs, beat up for ten minutes ; after which add a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated fine, and mixed well toge- ther, to which add the onions. Have ready some boiling lard; then take the slices of onions out of the batter with a fork, singly, and fry them gently till done of a nice brown. Drain them dry, and serve them up placed round each other. For sauce, melted butter with a little mus- tard in it. Onions (to Pickle).*—Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt and water, and pour it over them; let them stand in this twenty-four hours, keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam: after that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are cold, pour boiling vine- gar, with ginger and white pepper, over them. Take care the vinegar always covers the onions. Onions (to Pickle).*—Shift the onions with their peels on every morning, in fresh water, for nine days, then peel them; make a brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg, boil it, and pour it on the onions, let them stand for four-and-twenty hours ; then boil vinegar, with pepper, horse- radish, ginger, aud mustard seed, and put it boiling hot to the onions, and let I them stand for three days, then boil it again, and let them stand for another i three days ; after this, boil them all up I together, and stop them close down; they will be fit for use as soon as they are 1 cold. - Onions (Potage of).*—Set some milk I on the fire, season it with salt and pep- per ; whilst it is boiling, melt some butter in a stewpan, add to this some sliced, onions, stir them up, and when they are lightly browned, put them to the boiling milk, and simmer altogether for half an. hour. Put the bread into a basin, pour a sufficient quantity of the soup over to soak it, and when it has imbibed as much as you wish, put it into a soup tureen, fill it with your soup,lay the onions on the bread, and serve. Onions (Purieof, Brown).*—Take from thirty to forty onions, according to their size; peel and cut them down in half, taking off the tops and stalks, and then slice them; put six ounces of butter into a saucepan, with the onions, which fry lightly till of a nice colour ; then add two ladiesful of espagnole, one of stock, and reduce your pitr6e; when sufficiently thick, rub it through a coarse sieve. Great care should be taken not to let the puree boil. Onions (Puree of, White).*—Prepare the onions in the same manner as for the brown pur(e, except that they must not be allowed to take colour; when done, add to them some veloute, or cream, re- duce this over a large fire, stirring con- stantly with a wooden spoon ; when the puree is sufficiently thick, rub it through a sieve. Onions (Ragout of).*—Blanch and stew your onions in equal quantities of con- somme and champagne; add a spoonful of olive oil, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs : let these all simmer together till the onions are sufficiently done. Onions (RagoAt of.—Peel a pint of small onions, and take four large ones and cut them very small; then melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan ; when it has done hissing, put in the onions, and fry them a light brown ; then shake in a little flour, and shake them round till they are thick; add a little salt, a little beaten pepper, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a tea-spoonful of mustard, stir all well together; when well flavoured, and of a good thickness, pour it into a dish, and garnish with fried bread crumbs. Onion Salad with Beet Root.—Boil some large onions till well done ; then put them on a dish to cool; lvavo some beet root well baked, cut it into thin slices, and cut the onions into slices also ; then lay a slice of onion between two of beet, arranging them in whatever form you think proper on the dish ; serve over them an Italicnne sauce, the same as for Italienne salad. Onion Sauce.—Peel some onions, boilONI ORA 376 them in milk and water, put a turnip witli them into the pot (it draws out the strength); change the water twice ; pulp them through a cullender, or chop them ; then put them into a saucepan with some cream, a piece of butter, a little flour, some pepper and salt. they must be served very smooth. Onion Sauce. — The onions must be peeled, and then boiled till they are ten- der ; then squeeze the water from them ; chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, with a little good milk instead of water; give it one boil, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions draws out their strength. Onion Sauce (Brown).—Peel and slice the onions (some put in an equal quantity of cucumber or celery) into a quart stew- pan, with an ounce of butter; set it over a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is very lightly browned; then gradually stir in half an ounce of flour; add a little broth, and a little pepper and salt, boil up for a few minutes ; add a table-spoonful of claret, or port wine, and some mush- room ketchup (you may add, if you think proper, a little lemon juice or vinegar), and rub it through a tammy, or fine sieve. Onion Soup.— Put into the water in which a leg or neck of mutton has been boiled, some carrots, turnips, and a shank bone, and let it simmer for a couple of hours. Strain it on half a dozen onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown; simmer the whole for three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put in a little roll, or fried bread. Onions (Stewed).—Peel half a dozen onions, fry them gently of a nice brown, taking care not to blacken them ; then put them into a small stewpan, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover them, and let them gently stew for two hours. Lightly flour them at first. Onions (Stuffed).* — Peel four-nnd- twenty large onions, very carefully blanch, cool, and then having drained them, scoop out the inner part of the onions, and fill them with a quenelle farce, put them into a stewpan, let them all lay fiat, cover them with slices of bacon, add some water, a little salt, and a small quantity of sugar, set them on a largo fire at first, but lessen the fire afterwards; let them stand till done, then reduce the liquor, and make use of the onions as garnish for large dishes. ORANGE Biscuits.*—Take the grated rind of an orange, six fresh eggs, a quarter of a pound of flour, and three quarters of a ' pound of powder sugar; put these into a mortar, beat them to a paste, which put into cases, and bake like other biscuits. Orange Biscuits, or Little Cahes.—Boil some Seville oranges whole in several waters, till all the bitterness is taken from them ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice ; then put the outsides into a mortar, and beat them very fine ; add to it an equal weight of double refined sugar, beaten and sifted. When thoroughly well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun, or before the fire; when they are about half dry, cut them into whatever form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box with layers of paper. Oranges in Brandy. * — Choose the oranges very round and smooth, pare, prick them in the middle, and put them into cold water ; then blanch them in boil- ing water; when they are tender, throw them again into cold water ; in a short time give them seven or eight boils in sugar, a la petite nappe, skim, and let them stand till next day, when the same process must be gone through ; skim them again, then put them into bottles, pour over them equal quantities of syrup and water ; take care to cork them well. Oranges in Brandy. — Choose your oranges as near of a size as you can, and boil them till a pin will penetrate the skins witli ease ; do not take out the pulp, but make a small hole through the stalk end ; give them a boil in some clarified sugar, and set them aside ; the next day, drain off the svrup, boil and pour it on the fruit whilst hot; on the third day re- peat this operation, put the oranges into it, and boil them together; take out the fruit, add as much brandy as syrup, make it hot, but it must not boil; when cold, pour it over the oranges, which ought to float in the liquid. Orange Butter.—Take half a dozen eggs, and boil them hard, beat them in a mortar, with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of almonds, bleached and beaten to a fine paste. Moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed, nib it through a cullender on a dish, and serve witli sweet biscuits between. Oranges Buttered Hot.—Take four Se- ville oranges, grate oft" a little of the out- side rind, and cut a round hole at the bluntORA ORA 377 end of the orange opposite the stalk, suf- ficiently large to take out the pulp, seeds, and juice ; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges over with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. Be careful to save the bits you cut out of the oranges. Boil the oranges in fresh water until they are ten- der, changing the water to take out the bitterness. In the mean time, make a thin ! syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up, turning them round that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to I cover them, and let them remain in it till they are to be served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set it over the fire; mix f it well, and let it boil; then add a spoon- Iful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of butter, and stir over the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the 1 syrup in the dish. Put the pieces which i were cut out of the oranges at the top. Orange Cheesecakes. — Blanch eight ( ounces of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and beat and sift half a pound of sugar, and melt a pound of butter very carefully without oiling (the butter must be nearly cold before you use it for your cheesecakes), then beat the yolks of ten and the whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one (having previously boiled out the bit- terness) in a mortar, till as tender as mar- : malade, without any lumps ; then mix the - whole together, and put into patty-pans. Oranges (Compote of.')*—Cut them in j small pieces, and boil them in water until they are tender, then change them into cold water; next make a syrup with one ' glass of water and four ounces of sugar, ii and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently j over a slow fire for half an hour; serve ■I cold. Oranges (Compoteof.)*—Take as many n oranges as you may require, pare them ‘I neatly, cut them into quarters, which (as 1 you take out the pips) throw into cold } water; then scald them, and when thev |i appear soft, throw them again into cold ' water ; in the mean time boil some sugar 1 to petit lisse, put the oranges in, and having : given them several boils together, set them 1 to C0°I- When quite cold, take the fruit out of the syrup, and put them into com- potiers; boil the syrup a few times, and as 1 soon as it cools, pour it over the fruit, ti Oranges (Rate) Compote of.*—Cut the upper part of six good oranges, so that you can put them together again so as to appear whole ; pierce the pulp in several places with a small knife, and fill the in- cisions with fine powder sugar and a little brandy; then replace the pieces you have cut ofl, and serve the oranges in a dessert dish. Orange Cream.*—Pare the rind of a Seville orange very thin, squeeze the juice of four oranges, put it with the peel into a pan with a pint of water and eight ounces of sugar, beat the whites of five eggs, mix all together, set it over a slow fire, stir it one way till it looks thick and white, then strain it through a gauze sieve, stirring it till cold, then beat the yolks of the five eggs very fine, and put it into the pan with some cream ; stir it over the fire till ready to boil, then pour it into a basin, stir it till quite cold before you put it into glasses. Orange Cream (Frothed.)—Make a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a large orange into a small deep glass, having previously steeped a bit of orange-peel for a short time in the juice ; when the cream is almost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upon the juice, holding it as high as possible. Orange (Croque en Bouches of.)*—Pare a dozen fine oranges, and divide each into twelve pieces, all of the same size ■ scrape off every particle of the white, without breaking the thin skin which contains the juice ; when all are done, dip each piece into some sugar boiled to cassc (and lightly coloured), and place them in a plain mould of six inches diameter, and five in height; the first row inclined one way, the second the reverse way, and so on ; lay them at the bottom in a star. As soon as the mould is full, turn it out, and serve it with all possible expedition, as the moisture of the fruit dissolves the sugar so rapidly, that the croque en bouche is liable to fall to pieces. Orange Custard.*—Having boiled the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat it in a mortar to a fine paste ; put to it the juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful of the best brandy, four ounces of loaf- sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat them all well together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling croam ; keep beating it till cold ; put it into custard glasses. Set them in an earthern dish of hot water ; let them stand till thoy are set, then stick preserved orange, or orange chips, on the top. It may be sorved hot or cold.ORA ORA 378 Orange (Fine.)*—Infuse the peels of a dozen large oranges for some days in six quarts of the best brandy ; after which add a quart of water, and distil the whole; this will yield about a gallon of liqueur. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water; add this syrup to the liqueur, and then strain and bottle it. Oranges (Florentine of) with Apples.— Take half a dozen oranges, save the juice, and take out the pulp; lay the rinds in water twenty-four hours, changing the water three or four times ; then boil them in three or four different waters, then strain the water off, put them and their juice with a pound of sugar, and put them by for use : when they are used, boil ten pippins in a little sugar and water, pare, quarter, and core them, and mix them with some of the oranges; lay a puff-paste in the dish, and then put in the fruit; cover it with a thin crust, rolled and laid across ; it may be cut into whatever shape you please. Orange Fool*—Take the juice of six oranges, six eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all well together, stir it over a slow fire till thick, then put in a small piece of butter, and keep stirring it till cold. Orange Fritters.—Take one or two pre- served oranges, cut them into as many pieces as you think proper; make a good thick batter with sweet wine, and finish the same as all others. Orange Fritters.—Pare off the rind of some oranges, very thin, cut them into quarters, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour; then drain them, take out the pips, and put the oranges into a light syrup j simmer, and reduce them to cara- mel, take them from the fire, and when cold, cover them with syrup, dip each quarter into batter, and fry them of a nice colour; sprinkle them with powder sugar, glaze, and serve them. OnANGE Gimblctlcs.*—Grate the rinds of two very sound oranges on a piece of sugar, whicli scrape off, and mix with some more, so as to make six ounces ; pound four ounces of blanched almonds. Put half a pound of sifted flour on a slab, make a hole in the middle, into which put four drachms of yeast (diluted with a small quantity of milk), two ounces of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a grain of salt, the almonds and the sugar; mix these alto- gether, and leave the paste in a warm place for five or six hours, that it may rise; alter that time break up the paste, and roll it into little bands the size of your little finger, which cut bias into pieces five inches in length, and form them into little rings, joining the bias ends very neatly ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water,' stir the surface lightly in order to make the gimblettes rise, and prevent them from sticking to each other; in a few minutes drain, and put them into cold water; when quite cold, drain them again, dorez, and place them on lightly waxed copper-plates; put them in a slow oven, and bake them to a nice colour. [Orange Ice.*—Take ten fine blood oranges, peel, and divide them into quar- ters ; take out the pips and heart, and then pound them with the grated rinds of two of the oranges : put them into a strong cloth, and press out all the juice, which mix with half a pound of sugar, previously dissolved in a pint of water; put this mix- ture into a sorbetiere or icebox, and ice it as directed. (See Ice.) Orange Jelly.—Put two quarts of spring-water into a saucepan, with half a pound of hartshorn shavings, or four ounces of isinglass, and boil it gently till it becomes a strong jelly. Take the juice of three Seville oranges, three lemons, and six China oranges, the rind of one Seville orange and one lemon, pared very thin; put them to your jelly, sweeten with loaf- sugar to your taste, beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, mix them well in, and boil it for ten minutes : then run it through a jelly-bag till it is very clear, put it into your moulds, and let it stand till it is thoroughly cold ; then dip your moulds in warm water, and turn them into a China dish or flat glass. Orange Jelly en Unbans.*—Prepare the rinds of seven oranges, as directed (see Oranges en Surprise), and make half the quantity of jelly; take an equal quantity of blancmange, and whilst the peels are in ice, put into each a dessert-spoonful of the latter ; as soon as this is congealed, pour on it a spoonful and a half ot orange-jelly; let that set, and add two spoonsful of blancmange, then two of jelly, and so on till the peels are filled; when quite ready for table, cut them carefully into quarters, and arrange them with taste on a dish, or in a confectionary basket. Orange Jelly (Transparent).*—Take tlie juice of twelve oranges and two lemons : having taken care that none of the pips are in, pnre two of the sweetest oranges as thin ns possible, put the juice and nnd intoORA 379 ORA a bag, and when it has filtered through, mix it with the syrup tinged with cochi- neal, add the isinglass, and finish it in the usual manner. (See Fruit Jelly.) Orange Juice Buttered.—Take seven Seville oranges, squeeze the juice from them, and mix it with four spoonsful of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, well beaten; strain the liquor to half a pound of pounded sugar, and stir it over a mo- derate lire, and as soon as it begins to thicken, add to it a bit of butter about the size of a walnut; keep it a few minutes longer over the fire, then pour it into a dish, and serve cold. Orange Juice (to keep).*—To every pint of juice put three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar; let it boil a little, and then put it into bottles. Orange Loaves.—Cut the fruit into halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liquor; boil the peels in several waters, to take out the bitterness ; then let them lay for two days in syrup; boil the syrup again after that period to a good con- sistency, add the peels, afterwards put them into glasses for use. When they are wanted, take what quantity is sufficient for a dish, and fill them with some pudding mixture—either marrow, bread, plum, &c.; or witli a custard, and bake them carefully. Orange Marmalade.*—Take eight Se- ville oranges, three lemons, pare them very thin, take out all the juice and pulp, lay the peels in water twenty-four hours, changing them once or twice, lay them on a coarse cloth to drain; then take the weight of juice, pulp, and peel, in lump- sugar ; boil the whole a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes; the peel should be cut in long narrow slips. Be careful not to leave any seeds or white part of the rind. Orange Marmalade.*—Take the peels of fifteen oranges (without any of the white), blanch them till tender; then put them into cold water; in a few minutes take them out, drain and pound them to a paste, which rub through a sieve; weigh it, and for each pound allow a pound and half of sugar; clarify and boil the latter to fart perl(; add the paste, and boil them together, stirring constantly till the mar- marlade is done, which may be known thus: take some up between your thumb and finger; and if, on opening them, the marmalade draws out like a thread, it is at the right point, and may be put into pots. Orange Posset,—Squeeze the juice of two Seville oranges into a china bowl or small deep dish that will hold about a quart, sweeten it like syrup, add a little brandy; boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel; when cold, put the cream into a teapot, pour it to the syrup, holding it high ; and let it be made the day before it is wanted. Oranges (to preserve.)—Rasp or cut the oranges in scallops with a penknife, and throw them into water; change it once a day for three days ; then boil them till tender enough to run a wheat straw through ; then put them into cold water till the next day; pulp, and wipe them very dry; have the syrup ready ; boil them two or three times till very clear. Observe to put the syrup to them when cold ; make it the same as for cucumbers Oranges preserved dry.*—Take some thick-rinded oranges, and mark the quar- ters, but without dividing them; then pare and throw them into cold water; after which put them into boiling water; let them remain till the head of a pin will easily penetrate the skin, and then throw them again into cold water. Clarify and boil some sugar to lissd, put in the oranges, boil them together a little while, and then pour the whole into a pan : the next day drain off the syrup, and having boiled it up a few times, pour it again on the oranges ; the third day drain off the syrup as before, and having boiled it to la nappe, add some more clarified sugar and the oranges, give the whole one boil, covered ; put it aside as above ; repeat this operation two more days; on the last, increase the degree of the sugar to perle, and having added the fruit, boil three or four times; then set them in a stove for two days; when the oranges may be placed in boxes, which must be kept in a dry place. Oranges preserved liquid.*—Take a dozen fine oranges, pare them very care- fully, tie the rinds round the oranges, and put them into boiling water, in which they should remain (on the fire) for three or four hours; when sufficiently done, a pin’s head will easily penetrate the skins they must then be thrown into cold water; in a few minutes cut each into five or six pieces ; clarify three pounds of sugar, take out half of it, boil the remainder to lisse ; add the oranges, boil them together, and put them aside; drain off, boil and replace the syrup for twelve successive days, each day adding a portion of the re- served sugar. At the end of that timo the fruit may be put into pots.ORA 380 ORA Oranges to preserve in Jelly.—Cut a hole, about the size of a shilling, in the stalk-part of the orange, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear, without cutting the rind. Tie each orange separately in muslin, and let them lay for two days in spring water, changing the water twice a day; in the last, boil them tender on a slow fire. Take care that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To each pound of fruit weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim it well, and let it stand to become cold ; then boil the fruit in the syrup for half an hour; if not clear, repeat this daily till they are done. Another way.—Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them ; do not break them, only press them gently with the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of one lemon, and boil to a strong syrup ; drain off the syrup from the juice, and turn each orange with the hole up- wards in the jar, pour the apple-jelly over it. The bits which were cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy-paper. Orange Pudding,—Put six ounces of fresh butter, and eight ounces of lump- sugar, pounded in a mortar ; then grate in the rind of a Seville orange; beat the whole well together, and, as you do it, add the whole of eight eggs, well beaten and strained ; scrape a hard apple, and mix with the other ingredients ; put paste at the bottom of the dish, put in the mixture, and then put over it crossbars of paste. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. Orange Pudding, New England Fashion. —Squeeze the juice of three Seville oranges on half a pound of loaf-sugar; take the yolks of ten eggs, well beaten ; melt half a pound of butter, thick ; mix these well together, with four ounces of blanched al- monds, well pounded, with a little orange- flower water, the peel of one of the oranges grated ; put a thin crust at the bottom of the dish. Oranges (pulped.)—’Either paro your oranges extremely thin, or rasp them ; cut a bole at the stalk, pulp them very clean, put them into a pot, more than cover them with spring water and a little salt; lay a cloth upon the top three times doubled, then upon that a trencher or cover; let them scald gently, changing the water five or six times in the scalding; put salt in the first water ; they must be so tender that a straw will pass through them; keep them in the last water till they can be taken out with the hands; put them on cloths, the mouths downwards, changing them to dry places ; when dry, put them into milk- warm syrup ; let them lie half an hour; just scald them; take them out, put them into a deep china dish, pour the syrup over, cover them with another dish, scald them once in two or three days for a fort- night ; the last time, boil them up quick till they look clear, turning them about as often as there is occasion; if any part looks white and thick, strew sugar over it in the boiling; when they are transparent, put them into pots ; pour the syrup over scalding hot; put brandy-paper, and tie on a bladder. For syrup, a pound of sugar to a pint of water. Oranges, (Roquilles of).* — Tbe peels taken from preserved oranges are thus called ; they are tied up and done with oranges ; the third day they are drained, and put in a stove to dry, taking care to move them frequentlv, to prevent their sticking together; when perfectly dry, put them into boxes. Orange Sauce.*—Put into a stewpan half a glass of stock, the same of gravy, a slice of ham, some small pieces of orange- peel, about half an ounce of butter rolled in flour, salt and pepper; simmer these over the fire till thick, and then add the juice of an orange. Orange Gravy Sauce.—Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan, add to it half a dozen basil leaves, a small onion, and a roll of orange or lemon-peel, and let it boil for a few minutes, and strain it off. Put to the clear gravy, tbe juice of a Se- ville orange or lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same quantity of pepper, and a glass of red wine; serve it hot; shalot and Cayenne may be added. Orange Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound and a half of sugar in a quart of very pure water ; take nine fine oranges and two le- in Otis ‘y wipe them well with a napkin, and having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze on them the juice of these fruits ; sweeten this juice with the above syrup, run the whole through a close hair sieve, and finish in the usual way. (See Sherbet.) Orange Shrub.*—Put ten pounds of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, and boil it until the sugar be dissolved; sum381 ORA ORA it well, and put it into a tub ; when quite cold, pour it into a barrel; add three quarts of Jamaica rum, and six quarts of orange- juice (take care there are no pips)i Beat up the white of an egg, mix it with the shrub, and let it stand for a week; then i draw it otf and bottle it. Orange Sugar.*—Rasp on a piece of I sugar the rinds of the best oranges, but so lightly that not a particle of the white is mixed with it; scrape off the surface of i the sugar as it becomes coloured, and con- tinue this operation until you hare as much sugar as you require; then lay it in a stove, or at the mouth of an oven to dry ; when it is perfectly so, pass it through a a very fine sieve. Lemons and cedrats may be grated, and the sugar dried in the same manner. Oranges e/i Surprise.*-—-Take ten oranges, choose them of a very good form, and the rinds smooth, close, and deep-coloured; cut a piece off the stalk end of the orange, being careful to make the knot exactly in the centre; then, with a tea-spoon, clear out all the juice, &c. from the oranges with the greatest care, so that the rind be not injured; separate the white from the juice, which filter and make into jelly. As every orange is thus emptied, plunge it into cold water, and afterwards lay them two inches apart, on a sieve, round which place plenty of pounded ice. When about to be sent to table, fill each rind with the jelly, and lay the tops on; place six of them on a napkin, neatly folded in a dish, and a se- venth on the top. If you think proper, you may divide the rind in quarters, by which means the clear jelly within will be shewn to great advan- tage. These oranges era surprise are some- times served in baskets made of coloured confectionery. Orange Tarts.*—Pare the oranges very thin, put them into water for two or three days, changing the water several times; then boil them till tender, and the bitter- ness extracted; when cold, cut a thick slice off the top and bottom, and the rest as thick as a crown-piece : put a puff-paste into the tartlet-pans, then a layer of sugar, and of orange, alternately, till the pans°are full: bake them. Orange Tart.—Squeeze, pulp, and boil until tender, a couple of Seville oranges- then weigh them, and take double their weight of sugar; beat the orange and sugar together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the oranges, and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat them al- together. Then line a very shallow dish with a light puff-crust, and lay the orange in it. You may ice it, if you think pro- per. Orange Wine.*—A dozen of oranges to a gallon of water, and three pounds and a half of fine loaf-sugar ; pare your oranges very thin, and take off all the white skin ; squeeze them well, then put thejuice, the oranges, and the water together, and let it stand in the tub forfour-and-twenty hours; then strain it off, and put it into a barrel with the sugar, half the peels, and a quart of the best brandy ; bung it down when it has done hissing. It must stand for twelve months before it is bottled. The water is to be cold, not boiled. Oranges (China) Zest of.—Pare off the outside rind of the oranges very thin, and only strew it over with fine powder-sugar, as much as their own moisture will take, and set them to dry in a hot stove. Orangeade.—Squeeze the juice; pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover if closely ; boil water and sugar to a syrup, and skim it; when all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much water as will make a rich sherbet; strain it through a jelly-bag. Orangeade.*—This refreshing beverage is made precisely in the same manner as lemonade, only substituting oranges for lemons. Orangeade Pie. — Make a thin crust with hot buttered paste ; then slice the oranges, and layover the bottom ; pare and core some pippins, cut each into eight parts, and lay them over the oranges ; then lay the oranges on the pippins, and pour- over them some syrup of orangeade, strew sugar over the top, close up the pie, bake it, then strew some sugar over it. Orange (Bitter) Sauce.* — Pare two bitter oranges very thin, blanch the rinds, and then put them into a rich espagnole reduced; add a small piece of sugar, and season itwell; just before serving, squeeze in the juice of one of the oranges, and part of a lemon. Orange (China') Juice to Preserve.—Take the finest China oranges that can be pro- cured, squeeze from them a pint of juice ; strain it through a five muslin, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes, with three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar; when cold, put it into small bottles. Orange (China) Water Ice.— Rasp a China orange, take the juice of three oranges, and the juice of a lemon; add toORA 382 ORA it half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water; pass it, and freeze it rich, and thick. Oranges (Green)—Scrape out the insides of the oranges quite clean, then let them lie for three days in cold water, changing the water daily, then boil them very slowly till the water is bitter; then put them into Other boiling water, set them by • repeating this daily till all the bitterness is extracted; make a rich syrup of the last water they are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; when cold, put them in ; the next day boil them in the syrup; repeat this till they are green and tender; cover with brandy- paper. Orange (Seville) Water Ice. — Take off the rind of two Seville oranges, very fine and thin; squeeze the juice into a basin with one lemon ; add half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water; pass them through a sieve, and. freeze them rich. Orange Chips.— Cut your oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve, let the peel soak in water, the following day boil it in the same till it is tender; drain them, and slice the peels; put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad earthen dish, and put it over the fire at a moderate distance, stirring frequently till the chips candy; then put them into a cool room to dry. They will not be dry under three weeks. Orange Chips Broiled.—Take the rinds of oranges, cut them into small pieces, and having scalded them a short time, throw them into some sugar boiled to grande plume; stir them well, and when they are of a nice colour, drop them on a baldng-plate (pre- viously oiled) like macaroons ; strew a lit- tle powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. The proportion of sugar is a pound and a half to one pound of the peel. Orange Flower Balls.*—Whip up tho whites of two eggs, with three pounds of powder-sugar, adding by degrees an ounce of orange-flower water, and a pinch of car- mine in powder; when these ingredients form a tolerably firm paste, pour it on a sheet of paper; cut it in pieces, which make into little balls, by rolling them in our hands; place them on paper about alf an inch apart; put them into the oven till they swell a little, then take them out, and keep them dry. Orange Flower Biscuits.—Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them up with three spoons- ful of orange-flower marmalade, and some green lemon-peel grated; then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, I and a quarter of a pound of sifted flour; mix these together well, put the prepara- j| tion into paper-cases, bake them like other I biscuits, and glaze them when done. Orange Flower Biscuits a La Duchesse.— | These are made in the same manner as I orange-flower biscuits; the only difference 1 consists in the ingredients; rice-flour sifted ! I being substituted for wheat-flour, and dried ifl orange-flowers pulverized instead of the | marmalade, and a pound of powder-sugar added. Orange Flower Biscuits Souffles.*—Take 1 the white of an egg, with which mix some 1 sifted sugar ; when of a proper consist- I ence, add two pinches of dried orange- I flowers, mix them well, and half fill some I very small paper-cases ; put them into a moderate oven, and when on touching them ■ lightly, you find them firm, they are suf- I ficiently baked. Orange Flowers (Candied).—Boil some I clarified sugar, to souffle, and then throw | in some picked orange flowers, remove it I from the fire, replace it in a quarter of an I hour, and let it rise to soujjle again ; take I it off a second time, and when about half | cold pour it into moulds, which place in a moderately heated stove; keep it at the I same temperature whilst the candy is I drying; when done, the top should sparkle like diamonds ; set the moulds on | one side to drain for some time, before you turn out the candy, which must be kept in a dry place. Orange Flowers Clarequet.— Having pared some golden pippins perfectly, slice the apples very thin, wash them in several waters, and then boil them slowly with a little water in a covered saucepan, until the apples are entirely reduced ; strain it through a damp cloth, and mix with it over the fire, a spoonful of orange flower marmalade, give them one boil together, then strain it again through a damp cloth, boil au equal quantity of sugar to casse, put the liquid, a little at a time, to this, let it stand a moment; then take it off, skim, and replace it on the fire, and when the whole has boiled up two or three times, pour it into glasses. Orange Flowers(Comp&teof).*—Choose your flowers very white ami well picked, throw them into boiling water, and blanch them till you can crush them with your fingers; then take them out, and put them in cold water with some lemon juice, change the water several times, having lemon juice in each; then drain, and putORA 383 ORA them into clarified sugar (lukewarm), cover, and leave the flowers to imbibe the sugar for three or four hours. Orange Flower Conserve.—Boil half a pound of clarified sugar to grand plume, take it from the fire, and pour into it a dessert spoonful of orange-flower water; stir them together well, set the mixture on the fire, and when warm, pour it into shallow paper cases ; let it cool, and then cut it into cakes of any form you please. Orange Flower Cream.—Having boiled a pint of cream with the same quantity of milk, add some sugar, and a small quan- tity of salt, and when it boils, put in a good pinch of orange flowers ; cover, and continue to hoil until the cream is well flavoured with the flowers; then mix with it the yolks of ten or six eggs, according to the size of your mould, stir them over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; take it off, put in the clarified isinglass, and rub it through a silk sieve ; pour it into a mould or cups, which place in a pan, with a sufficient quantity of water to reach half way, cover, and put fire on the lid, to prevent the steam from dropping on the cream; when done, let it cool. If the cream is for cups, as many eggs must he put in as you have cups. Orange Flower Creme.* — Put five pounds of sugar into three quarts of pure water ; when the former is quite dissolved and has boiled, put to it a pound and three quarters of picked orange flowers, and pour it into a vessel, which cover very closely till cold, then add three quarts of Champagne wine, and the same of recti- fied spirits of wine ; leave it, and the next day filter and bottle it. Orange Flowers Fromage Bavorois.* Throw a handful of picked orange flowers into a pint of boiling cream, cover and let it cool; then (if the cream is sufficiently flavoured) strain, and mix it with another pmt of thick cream ; beat it over ice till it acquires the proper consistence; mix pounded sugar with some clarified isin- glass ; put this mixture to the cream, stirring continually; when of the proper thickness fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Orange Flower Gateau SouJZec.*—Take half a pound of fresh orange flowers picked and two pounds of fine sugar; put the’ white of an egg, and a small quantity of sifted sugar into a basin, and beat them to the consistence of cream cheese. Dissolve your sugar, skim, and in a little time add the orange flowers, and then boil the sugar to petit casse; take it from the fire, and put to it half a spoonful of the beaten egg; then, with a spatula, stir quickly round the sides of the pan ; the moment the syrup rises, cease till it falls, then stir again till it rises a second time, when it must be poured into moulds or cases (well oiled), and sift sugar over the surface. The juice of half a lemon added to the ingredients increases the whiteness of the gateau soujflee ; if, however, you wish it coloured, put a small quantity of the requisite colouring material into the white of egg whilst beating. Orange Flowers (Grillage of).*—Boil half a pound of sugar to la plume, and then mix with it a quarter of a pound of picked orange flowers, stir them well, and when the flowers have taken a good colour, squeeze over them the juice'of a lemon ; then put a layer of nonpareil on a dish, on which spread the grillage of orange flowers, then the nonpareil again, and so on alternately, until all your mate- rial is used, when put it in the stove to dry. Orange Flower Ice*—Dissolve three pounds of sugar in five pints of water; put a pound of well picked orange flowers into a large bottle or jar, pour the syrup on them, close the vessel hermetically, and let it stand five hours, then strain it in the sorbetiere, and ice it as usual. (See Ice). v Orange Flower Jelly Printannier au Caramel*—Having clarified three quar- ters of a pound of sugar, boil half of it to caramel; then take it from the fire, and add to it one ounce four drachms of fresh gathered orange flowers, stir them in with a silver spoon, and when quite cold, pom- on it two glasses of boiling water; then set the mixture on hot ashes till the cam- inel sugar is dissolved ; as soon as it is so, strain, and mix with it the remainder of the sugar, and an ounce of clarified isin- glass ; finish your jelly as directed. (See Jelly Printannier). Orange Flower Marchpane*—Take six ounces of orange flower marmalade, two pounds of sweet almonds, and a pound and a half of sugar; blanch and pound tho almonds to a very fine paste; clarify and boil the sugar to petit boulc, then add the almond paste and marmalade to it- stir them till of the proper consistence; and when cold, make your marchpane into calces, whatever size and shape you please. Orange Flower Marmalade*—Take aORA ORA 384 pound of orange flowers, and two pounds of sugar; take the fibres from the flowers, which throw into a saucepan of cold water; when all are done, squeeze over them the juice of one large or two small lemons; set this on the fire, constantly stirring till the flowers give to the touch, then take them out, and lay them on a sieve, pouring cold water on them till they are quite cold. Put them into a mortar, and pound them to a sort of paste, which mix with the sugar boiled to boule ; boil them together a few times, then take it oif, and mix with it a pound of apple jelly ; as soon as they are thoroughly incor- porated, the marmalade may he put into pots, which must not, however, he co- vered till cold. Orange Flower Pastils.— Pulverise a good pinch of dried orange-flowers; pound them with gum-dragon, previously dis- solved in one glass of plain, and the same quantity of orange-flower water; add a suf- ficient proportion of powder-sugar, to make the paste of the requisite consistence,which form according to your taste into cones, lozenges, &c. Orange Flower Pralines .*—Take a pound of very fresh white orange-flowers, pick, and throw them into cold water ; clarify and boil two pounds of sugar to souffle, then put in the flowers; stir them with a spatula, until your sugar regains the de- gree of soufflt; take the pan from the fire, and continue stirring till the sugar is se- parated from the flowers, and becomes a powder; set it in a stove to dry, then set the whole on a sieve, that the sugar may run through and leave the flowers, which put into bottles. If preserved in a dry place they will keep for twelve months. Orange Flowers (to preserve'). — lake the orange flowers just as they begin to open; put them into boiling water, and let them boil very quickly till they aro tender, putting in a little juice of lemon ns they boil, to keep them white, then drain them, and carefully dry them between two napkins ; put them into clarified sugar, (a sufficient quantity to cover them), the next day drain the syrup, and boil it a .little smooth ; when almost cold, pour it on the flowers; the following day drain them, and lay them out to dry, dusting them a very little. Orange Flowers (7iatqfia of). I3ib- solve three pounds of sugar in a sufficient quantity of water, set it on the firo, add a pound of well-picked orange flowers, and „jve the wholo one boil, then let it cool, and pour it into a jar, put to it three quarts of the best brandy ; cover the ves- sel very close, and leave it a fortnight; after which filter, and bottle the ratafia. Orange Flowers (Syrup of).*—Clarify and boil four pounds of sugar to perle, then add three quarters of a pound of fresh orange flowers picked, and boil them once ; then take the pan from the fire, and let it stand for two hours, after which, replace it on the fire; when it has had about a dozen boilings, pour it through a sieve into another saucepan, boil the syrup to lisse, and put it aside ; when quite cold, bottle it. The flowers may he used as follows : put them into powder-sugar, with which rub them well with your hands till quite dry, then sift and put them in a stove. Orange-Flower Water* -—- Put into a still ten pounds of fresh gathered orange flowers, and six quarts of pure river wa- ter; take particular care to close up all the apertures of the still perfectly, and set it on a moderate fire, that the ebulition may not he too strong; he particular in cooling it frequently, or, at least, when- ever the water in the boiler becomes too warm, change it, and put in fresh ; much depends on the attention paid to this part of the operation. From the above quan- tity, three quarts of orange-flower water may be drawn. Orange Flower (Double) II ater* — Draw four quarts of orange-flower water from six quarts distilled as above ; put to this water the same quantity of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, and it will yield five pints. Orange Peel (to Candy).*—Take some Seville orange peel, and let it soak in seve- ral waters till it has lost its bitterness, then boil it in a solution of double refined sugar in water, till it becomes tender and transparent. Orange Peel (to Preserve).*—Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the peel in strong salt and spring water, to soak for three days, repeat this three times, then put them on a sieve to dry; take one pound of loaf sugar, add to it one quart of spring water, boil it, skim it until quite clear; let the peels simmer until they are quite transparent; dry them before the fire; take loaf sugar, with just sufficient water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is boiling, put in the peels, stirring continu- ally until all the sugar is candied round them, then put them to dry either before the fire or in an oven, and when perfectly dried, put them by for use.OVE 385 ORG Orange Peel (Ratafia of). — Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brandy; dissolve two pounds of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it the brandy, and having stirred them together well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month; then strain it off,' and bottle it. ORGEAT.*—Blanch a pound of sweet, and twenty-four bitter almonds; pound them to an exceedingly fine paste, addino- water occasionally to prevent their oiling” mix a gallon of water, two pounds of sugar and orange-flower water, with this paste ; beat them together for some time; then strain it two or three times through a jelly-bag, stirring it with a spatula, °and serve it in decanters. Orgeat Paste. — Pound the almonds with a little orange-flower water to a fine paste, and then work up with it an equal weight of powder sugar. This paste will keep a long while, and by dissolving a small portion of it in water, and straining it,, orgeat may be prepared very quickly. An ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a pint of water. Orgeat (Syrup of).*— Take a pound and a half of sweet, and half a pound of bitter almonds, throw them into boilino- water, and leave them till the skins can be removed with ease; then throw them into cold water for a minute before you blanch them, after which, they must a°-ain be put into cold water; then pound them, a few at a time, in a marble mortar, addino- occasionally some water to prevent their oiling; when all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this with the greater part of a quart of water (of which reserve six ounces) ; put the paste into a strong cloth - squeeze and wring out all the milk from the almonds, put the latter into the mor- tar, and pound them again, adding by de- grees the remainder of the water, and then squeeze these also in a cloth; pour the ’ whole of this milk into a matrass, laro-e enough to contain, at least, one third more liquid, add to it two pounds of lump sugar, and a pint of orange-flower water ; cork the matrass tight, and set it on a bain-marie; when the sugar is com- pletely dissolved (which should be acce- lerated by shaking the matrass occasion- ally), lessen the fire by degrees, and as soon as the vessel is quite cold, put the syrup into bottles. If you should have no matrass, you mav make your syrup in the following manner : ooil the abovementioned quantity of su"ar to forte plume, then add the milk of al- monds, and as soon as it has boiled up twice, take it from the fire; when cold, flavour it with a pint of orange-flower water. Or this syrup may be made in a still more simple way, as thus: put the milk of almonds into some pounded sugar, with- out being clarified or boiled previously * when the syrup begins to boil, add about a coffee-cupful of orange-flower water and after it has boiled up two or three times, take it from the fire; let it o-et quite cold before you bottle it. Keep it well corked. 1 Orgeat Water.—Pound a quarter of a pound of sweet, and two or three bitter almonds (blanched), and two ounces of the four cold seeds; add a little water occasionally to prevent the almonds from oiling; put this paste into a bowl, and mix with it a quart of water and two ounces of powder sugar, in about an hour’s time, strain it into a decanter. A little milk may be added, if required particu- larly white. - roast).—they should be pickled and singed, but not drawn; put them on skewers, with bacon round them, tie them to the spit; when they are done, strew them over with grated bread; or they may be spitted sideways, with a bay leaf between, and the dish should be °-ar- mshed aH round with fried bread crumbs. O VEN (Directions for the).—Be very careful to keep your oven clean, and that there are no remains of sugar or flit that may have run over from any thing that has been baking. Puff pastes require a moderately hot oven, but not too hot, or it will spoil the shape and turn it over; tart paste, or short crust, requires a slower oven; petits-choux, one still slower; but tor raised pies, let it be as hot as for puff paste at first, and well closed, so that the pies may not fall. Therefore, when you b* V.G a dinner where paste is necessary, tn eavour to make it in the morning ; heat your oven first for the puff paste, which must be baked the first; then let the oven go gradually down, and bake your pastes m rotation, as the heat falls. Savoy bis- cuits require a cool oven, and, by degrees rinse the heat as the biscuits are baking! h or souffles or light puddings, have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have them ready by the time they are wanted, or they will fall. 'The greatest attention should also be paid in heating the oven for baking cakes, particularly for those386 OX OX that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it has become slack, the cake will he heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the centre; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- diately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficientto raise, but not to soak, fresh fuel must be quickly put in, and the cakes kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the soaking, but this must only be done in a case of great emergency; lor those who are employed ought to be parti- cularly careful that no mistake occur hom negligence. Ox Cheek (Boiled) to be eaten cold.— Bone and thoroughly cleanse an ox cheek, then let it steep in white wine for twelve hours ; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; roll it up, tie it tight with tape, boil it m water, salt, and vinegar, till it is very tender; press it hard, and when quite cold, cut it into slices, and serve with oil and vi- negar. _ , , Ox Cheek Pie.—Bone them, and soak them thoroughly in water, boil them ten- der, cleanse them very well, take out the balls of the eyes, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, then mince somq beet and some beef suet; lay this at the bot- tom of the dish, then put in the cheeks with a few whole cloves, close up the pie or pasty, and put it in the oven to bake. Bor paste, as follows: half a peck ol flour, the whites of half a dozen eggs, two pounds and a half of butter, work the but- ter and eggs up dry in the flour, then add a little water to make it a still' paste, and work up all cold. Ox Cheek (Fatted).—Take an ox cheek and thoroughly wash it, then bone it rub it over with the same ingredients that are used for potted beef, and set it in the oven until it is tender; then tnke out the flit, the skin and the palate; add to a pound of the S. two ounces of the flit which swims on the top of the liquor, beat it together ,n a mortar, and finish the same as lor P°Ox Check (Stewed).—Take half a head, let it soak for three hours, and thoroughly clean it with plenty of water, lake t with a large onion, a bunch ol sivee lierhs, some braised allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the bones on the top, pour on two or three quarts of water, and cover the pan very closely with brown paper; let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven, or let it simmer by the side of the fire. When tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get quite cold. Take off the cake of fat, and warm the head in pieces in the soup: put in what vegetable you think best. Ox Cheek (Stewed).—Soak andwell wash, the day before it is to be eaten, a fine ox cheek, put it into a stew pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water, and after it has boiled up once and been well skimmed, let it simmer; in two hours, add plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice; skim it often; when the meat is tender, take it out; let the soup get cold, take off the fat, and serve the soup either sepa- rate or with the meat. It ought to be of a nice brown colour, which may be done by burnt sugar, or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering ■ them with it. This last method extremely improves the flavour of all soups and : gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables ■ are not liked in the soup, they can be taken out, and a small roll toasted, or: fried bread, may be added. Celery is a very great improvement, and should al- ways be served. When celery cannot be procured, the seed is a most excellent sub- - stitute, boiled in, and strained off. Ox Cheek (Stnced).— Put it to stew ■ with just sufficient water to cover it, let it simmer for two hours; peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied up in a bit of muslin ; a few capers, tur- nips cut into very small pieces, and carrots sliced, half a pint of beef gravy, a little white wine, and a bunch ot sweet herbs ; let it stew verv gently till it is tender, then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour. . Ox Feet (Fried).—Boil them till they are tender, skin and split them, take out the bones and fry them in butter; when they have fried 'for a short time, put m some mint and parsley, shred small, a little salt, some beaten pepper ; beat up the volks of eggs with some mutton gravy and vinegar, the juice of either a <■ 11 or an orange, and a little nutmeg; lay your fry in the dish, and pour the sauce: over it. You may add alittle shred ouion, if you think proper. Ox Palates* — The palate should be 1 salted, and then scalded until the second skin can he easily removed on scraping with a knife, when it should be put into cold water, and thoroughly cleaned and trimmed, that is, all the black parts cleared away; then put it in a blanc for four or five hours, or more, if necessary; if, on pressing, the meat is flexible, it is suffi- ciently done, and may be taken out, and is fit to be dressed in any way you think proper, and served with any sauce. Ox Palates Atreaux.*— Cut some ox palates (previously cooked in a blanc) into pieces an inch and a quarter square, put them into a sauce a I’atelet, fry them lightly in it, and let them cool; cut a cold boiled calf’s udder into thin slices, the size of the palates; put these alternately, and with great regularity, on skewers, take care that all four sides are even; bread them well in the usual manner; place them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil three sides, colour the fourth with the salamander. Serve them with a clear gravy espagnole, Italienne, or without any sauce if you like it better. Ox Palates a la Bechamel.* — Prepare the palates in a blanc, and then cut them into small square pieces, put them into a bechamel, in which boil them lightly ; sea- son with a little pepper, and serve them very hot. Ox Palates in Blanquette.*—Make an allemande, and when nearly done, put in the palates previously blanched, and cut into small square pieces ; just before serv- ing, add a liaison of yolks of eggs with the juice of a lemon. Garnish the dish with croutons. Ox Palates Broiled.*—Cutsomeblanched ox palates in slices, which soak for some hours in a marinade composed of oil, with salt, pepper, parsley, onions sliced, and lemon juice; then take them out, bread and broil them. Serve with sauce piquante. Ox Palates (Collops of).*—Take two braised ox palates, cut them into pieces ! the size of a half-crown, have ready twice as many pieces of puff-paste cut rather I larger than the palates; between every f two put a slice of the palates, and a little [forcemeat on each side of it; press the | edges of the piisto together, and fry the collops to a nice colour. Ox Palates ( Coquilles of) .* — Cut ox palates into dice, cut also into dice an . equal number of mushrooms, put them into a well-reduced allemande, with a little butter, parsley, and lemon juice ; put this preparation into shells; cover it with, bread crumbs and grated Parmesan-cheese, with a little melted butter; colour them, in an oven, or with a salamander. Ox Palates en Cripinettes*—When the palates are taken out of the blanc, put them under a heavy weight; as soon as they are cold, trim them to about the length of your finger; cut a dozen onions into dice, blanch and cool, then put them into a blanc with a piece of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, garlic, and bay leaf; when they are sufficiently done, add two ladiesful of veloute, and reduce your onions to a paste, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, let it cool, and then cover the palates com- pletely ; wrap each into a pig’s caul, lay them into a deep dish, and put them into an oven to colour ; serve them with a clear gravy and tomata sauce. Ox Palates (Cromesquis if).*—Cut four ox palates, a throat sweetbread, twelve good sized mushrooms, and four truffles, into dice; put the two latter into some allemande, reduce them to a paste, then add the palates and sweetbread, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a little nutmeg, mix these together, and when cold, make them into parcels the size of the little Anger; cut a ready dressed calf’s udder into very thin slices, all the same size, wrap each parcel in a slice of the udder, dip them in batter, and fry the cromesquis; serve with fried parsley. Ox Palates (Croquettes of).*—Having boiled the palates in a blanc as usual, cut them into dice ; have ready some reduced veloute, to which add two or three yolks of eggs, and a small piece of butter, put the minced palates into this, stirring them well together; then, with a spoon, lay about thirty little heaps of this on a tin, and when cool, form them of any shape you please; roll them in bread crumbs, then dip them in eggs (well beaten and seasoned with pepper and salt), roll them, again in bread crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan ; serve them on fried parsley. Ox Palates (Croquettes of).*—Take two or three ox palates, previously blanched, cut each in half, lengthwise, and simmer them over a small fire in some stock, with a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, two cloves, basil, snlt, and pepper ; in half an hour take them out, drain and let them cool, then lay on every piece a thin layer of meat farce, roll up your palates, and dip each in a batter made of flour, diluted 2 c 2388 ox ox ■with a spoonful of olive oil, half a pint of white wine, and a little salt; fry them a nice colour, and garnish with fried parsley. Ox Palates au Gratin.* — Trim the palates carefully, and blanch them; when cold cut them into slices, and give them a few turns in a little butter, and two onions, then add a little ham (also cut in slices), some gravy, stock, cullis, and d bouquet garni; let these boil an hour, then slam it, put in a little mustard, and serve it on a oratin as follows : Make a mince of fowl fivers, to which add grated bacon, parsley, scallions, mushrooms (all shred small) salt, and pepper, mix these together with the volks of two eggs, and spread it over a dish, which place on hot ashes; as soon as the gratin is formed, drain off the fat, and put the palates on the gratin and SeOx Palates au Gratin* —■ Cut your palates (prepared as usual) into long thin slices, about two inches wide ; spread over them some farce cuile (see that arti- cle') - cut a calf s udder into slices, the size of the others, lay these on the farce with a little of the same spread on them also , roll them up, and lay them round a dish in which you have placed a layer of the farce ; when all are done, cover them with bacon, and put them in the oven for about half an hour ; then dram away the fat, pour an Italienne into the centre and serve. P Ox Palates (with Herbs)*-Cut the palates into pieces of the size of farthings, do the same with an equal quantity of calf s udder, have some herbs « papillotes (see that article), mix them with a small quantity of farce and quenelle, unite them with the yolks of two eggs; lay a little of this on a silver or other dish that will bear the fire, then place the palate and udder, alternately, all over the farce, of which put another layer in the form of a pyramid; cover the whole with raspings ami a little melted butter ; pour ajjflusS ot white wine over it, and set it on the fire ; To our the top with the salamander. Serve nitber with reduced Italienne or espagnole. o" r“»«. a ti, palates into pieces the size of farthings, wS put into a stewpun with a glass of white wine, mushrooms, parsley, all shred small, reduce the whole to a glaze, then add a spoonful of espagnole, and a e glaze. Serve very hot with croutons Ox Palates a la MarhlU.-Havuig well scalded the palates, peel, and cut each in two lengthwise ; put a thin slice ot ham Zi another of bacon, between every two pieces, tie them together, and put them into some broth with parsley and scallions, two cloves, salt, and pepper; when done, serve with consomme, and a little lemonjuice# Ox Palates a la Marmotte.— l ake two or three scalded ox palates, cut them and some pickled pork into slices; boil the latter till half done ; add the palates, with parsley, shalots, and a clove of gar- lic, all chopped small, some whole pepper, and a glass of white w’ine ; boil the whole together; when nearly done, put the meat into a dish for table, strew plenty of bread crumbs over, colour it in the oven, and serve it with any thick sauce. Ox Palates (in Moulds),-—Take a num- ber of small timbale moulds, in each of which put some veal caul; braise and cut the palates into thin slices, the size of the mould s ; make a good forcemeat with the trimmings of the palates and some fowl; put layers of this and the slices of palates, alternately, till each mould is nearly full, cover each with chopped 1 truffles, over which lay another slice of palate ; -wrap the caul over, and put them in an oven. When done, take them out, carefully wipe oft the fat, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. Ox Palates ( Paupiattes ). * — Prepare some ox palates and calf’s udder, as for gratin, only cutting the slices rather wider; when rolled up as therein directed, rub them all over with a sauce d atelet; then bread and egg them like croquettes, fry them of a nice colour, and serve with fried P‘Uo!t'Palates (Pickled).*—'Wash the pa- lates clean with salt and water; then let them boil in salt and water; skim them very clean ; let them simmer four or five hours, and season them with pepper, cloves, and mace ; when they are tender, cut them into pieces, and let them cool. Make a pickle with equal quantities of white wine and vinegar ; boil it, and put in the spice that was boiled with the palates; add six or seven bay leaves, and some fresh spice , when both are cold, put them together, and keep them for use. , . , Ox Palates d la Paulette.*-^ pJJ* being blanched, give them a few turn in some butter, with sweet herbs, shred P« tlien, ioto » •»«*?» put them into a sauccj...... sa]t quantity of flour ■a spoonfu1 o « ’ ^ and pepper ; let these boil till pretty reduced; just before it isservedaddt • three yolks of eggs, and some crea , little verjuice or vinegar.389 OX ox Ox Palates a la Provencale.—Braise, and 1 cut some ox palates into small pieces; put them into a stewpan, with some butter, i two spoonsful of oil, two chopped shalots, a clove of garlic, five or six tarragon leaves, mushrooms, parsley, salt, whole pepper, and grated nutmeg; when these have sim- mered for a quarter of an hour, add a glass of white wine, the same of cullis, and con- 1 somme, then give the whole one boil, take ! off the fat, and serve with a little lemon i juice. Ox Palates (Roasted).—Boil them until i>; they are tender, blanch them, cut them into slices, about two or three inches in if length ; take some pigeons, and very small ii chickens, draw, truss, and fill them with ,[ forcemeat; let half of them be nearly I larded, spit them on a bird-spit in the fol- ! lowing manner: a bird, a palate, a sage leaf, and a bit of bacon; have ready two sweetbreads cut in pieces, some artichoke It bottoms cut in pieces, some oysters, and f some blanched cockscombs, all fried; rub Bthe dish with some shalots, lay the chickens, the pigeons, and what is roasted, in the ii middle, and arrange the other things round I a them. Then make a sauce in the following •j manner : a quarter of a pint of red wine, a i; pint of gravy, the liquor of the oysters, an anchovy, a little lemon juice, and a bit of ! butter rolled in flour ; let it boil till it has obtained the consistence of cream ; then pour it over the palates in the dish. Ox Palates (Stewed).—Thoroughly clean H four or five palates, put them into a pan I with sufficient water to cover them; tie ii them down, and bake or boil them ; when '{tender, peel them, cut them into pieces, flour them, put them into some good gravy, fwith an onion, a few pounded cloves, a i piece of lemon peel, and some ketchup, let I them stew for half an hour, take out the lemon peel and onion ; add some morels, forcemeat balls, and lemon juice. Garnish ■with sliced lemon. Ox Pulales (Timbale of). — Having * blanched the palates as usual, cut them llinto lozenges, have a timbale ready, at the {bottom of which put a layer of godiveau, or Jfother farce, then a layer of the palates, •another of the farce, and on that one of the truffles cut. in thin slices, and proceed in Itthis manner till the timbale is quite full • cover the whole with raspings, and pour a ' little beef gravy, or rich broth, into it, and • hake it to a nice colour. Ox Tail, with Cabbages.—Scald and boil an ox tail, cut it into pieces, and put it into some broth, with a bunch of parslev shalots, a bay leaf, and three cloves ; in an hour’s time add a savoy (previously scalded), a pound of pickled pork, cut in pieces, salt, and pepper. When done, take it out, drain off all the fat, and putthe whole' into a tureen, together with cullis, or broth, to make it more or less liquid according to your pleasure. Ox Tail braised en Hotchepot.*—Cut an ox tail in pieces at the joints, soak it for two hours, then scald it for half an hour; put it into cold water, drain and trim it. Lay slices of bacon and pieces of veal or beef in a stewpan, put in the tail, cover it with bacon, add three or four carrots, four or five onions (one stuck with three cloves), a little thyme, two bay leaves, and some stock; set the pan on a brisk fire to boil, after which lessen it, and let it stew gently for three hours; when done, lay the ox tail in a dish, pour over some carrots, cut in pieces, and done up in a little veloutd, and garnish the edge of the dish with lettuces, braised and glazed. Ox tails, when braised as above, may be served with various articles, instead of the lettuces, according to taste. Ox Tail a la Ste. Mcnchould*—Prepare and braise ox tails as for hotchpot; when done, season them with salt and pepper; soak them in melted butter, bread them twice, and colour them in the oven or on the gridiron. Ox Tail Pie (Hot).*—Braise two or three ox tails; when about three parts done, take them out and cut them in pieces : prepare your pie, at the bottom of which lay a slice or two of ham; then put in the tails, cover them with thin slices of bacon, finish the pie and bake it; when done, take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and pour into the pie a rich sauce. Ox Rump Soup.—This soup, made with two or three rumps of beef, will be much stronger than when made with a much larger quantity of meat without the rumps. It is made in the same manner as gravy- soup, and give it what flavour or thicken- ing you think proper. OXFORD John.*—Cut a stale leg of mutton into as thin collops as you can, cut out all the fat sinews, season them with salt, pepper, and mace; strew amongst them a little shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots ; put a piece of but- ter into a stewpan; as soon as it is hot, put in all your collops, keep stirring them, with a wooden spoon till they are three parts done ; then add half a pint of gravy.OYS 390 OYS a little piece of lemon, thicken it with flour and butter rolled up, let them sim- mer four or five minutes, and it will be quite enough ; if you let them boil, or have them ready before wanted, they will be hard ; strew fried pieces of bread over and round them ; serve hot. OYSTERS (to choose).—The goodness of oysters consists in their being healthy and properly relished ; there are several kinds,’ the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Mil- ford, are considered by far the best. The native Milton are reckoned particularly fine, being the whitest and the fattest; but others may be said to possess both these qualities in a certain degree by pro- per feeding. When they are alive and vigorous, the shell will close fast upon the knife. They should be eaten as they are opened, the flavour becomes poor other- wise. The rock oyster is the largest, but it has usually a coarse flavour when eaten raw. O ystehs (Attelets of).—Fry some sweet herbs in a little butter, with a little flour, and oyster liquor; season this sauce well, reduce and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs. Have ready some oysters blanched in their own liquor; put them on skewers, and the above sauce being cold, spread it completely over the skewered oysters; roll them in bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. Oysters in Hatter.—Make a batter with the yolk of one egg (or more, according to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some beaten mace, a little flour, and a little salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in bog’s lard to a nice light brown. If agreeable, a little parsley, shred very fine, may be put into the batter. Oysters au Blond*—Put a few morels and a little parsley into some melted but- ter; set them on the fire, and moisten with a glass of white wine, and the siune of veal gravy or good consommd, do these together, and when of a tolerable con- sistence, add some oysters, previously blanched in their own liquor; let the whole simmer for some time, and then serve. Oysters (Boiled).'—Eet tbo shells be verv nicelv cleaned first, and serve in them ; boiled oysters should be eaten with cold butter. Oysters (Broiled).—Take two dozen oysters from their shells, put them, with their own liquor, into a saucepan, just blanch them, and then take away the water, put a piece of butter, a pinch of parsley, the same of shalots (both shred), toss them in this, but do not let them boil; then replace them in their shells, with a little lemon juice and raspings, set them on the gridiron, and when they . broil, take them off and serve. Oysters en Coquilles.*'— Having taken the oysters from their shells, put them. . with their own liquor into a stewpan; let ; them warm, but not boil. Prepare some • shalots, parsley, mushrooms, grated bacon, , oil, butter, and spices, as directed for r herbs d papillotes; mix the oysters with | these, and then put them altogether into shells, and cover them with bread crumbs; ; set the shells on a gridiron over a brisk : fire ; colour the top by means of a sala- • mander. Oysters d la Daube.—Make a seasoning of parsley, basil, and chives, cut very • small, open the oysters, loosen them, but do not take them out of the bottom shell; ; put a little of the seasoning to each oyster, , with pepper, and a little white wine ; put on the top shell, and put these on the grid- - iron; lay from time to time a red hot shovel over them ; and when they are done, take off the upper shell, and serve them to table in the under one. Oysters a I’Eau*—Put a glass of con- somme and half a glass of the oyster t liquor into a dish, and keep them hot; beard as many oysters as you may re- quire ; blanch anil toss them up in some butter, with a few sweet herbs ; let them simmer till done, then put them into the dish with the consomme, and serve them. Oysters and Eggs.*—Put into a stew- pan half a pound of fresh butter, some pars- ley, scallions, and morels, shred small, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; when the butter is melted, put in about four dozen oysters with their liquor, make them quite hot, and add to them five or six hard eggs cut in slices, let the whole sim- mer for "a quarter of an hour, and fill the oyster shells with this; cover each with raspings, and colour them in the oven or with a salamander. Oysters d l’Espagnole. — Put a chopped oysters, some parsley, a c ore ot garlic, a iittle pepper, and some butter, on a dish, set it on the fire to form a gratin; then lav oysters (blanched m their own liquof) on this, with a sauce composed of cullis, mushrooms, and capers Chopped small, a bit of butter and a pounded anchovy; cover the " i bread crumbs ; keep the dish over >c >OYS OYS 391 with lire on the top, till done. Serve with Spanish sauce. Oysters (to feed). — Put them into water, and thoroughly wash them with a birch besom until they are perfectly clean; then lay the bottom shell downwards into a pan, sprinkle them with flour or oatmeal, and cover with water. Continue the same daily, and they will fatten. The water should be tolerably salt. Oysters (Forced) in Shells.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, chop them; add parsley and anchovy chopped, crumbs of bread, lemon peel grated, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little cream, yolk of egg, a piece of butter, and some oysters, whole ; fill some scollop shells, strew over a few bread crumbs; brown them in a Dutch oven. Oysters (Fricassee of).*—Blanch the oysters in their own liquor, drain and fri- cassee them in some rich broth in the same manner as chickens; thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs. Oysters (Fried).—Beat up the yolks of eggs with flour, salt, and nutmeg, dip your oysters in this, and fry them a light brown ; they are a nice garnish for cod, and calf’s head hashed, &c. Oyster Fritters.*-—Haring blanched the oysters in their own liquor, soak them for some time in vinegar and water with salt, shred parsley, and small white onions, sliced, after which, dry them well, dip each in batter, and fry them. Oysters au Gras*—Scald some oysters in boiling water ; then drain and put them into some good stock, and their own liquor; set them on the fire, and when done, put them in silver moulds, cover them with a farce composed of morels and fat livers, minced very small, and mixed with sweet herbs; strew raspings over, and colour them with the salamander. Oyster Ketchup.—Take some fine fresh Milton oysters; wash them in their own liquor, then pound them in a marble mor- tar, and to a pint of oysters add a pint of sherry ; boil them up, and add an ounce of salt, two drachms oi pounded mace, and one drachm of Cayenne; let it just boil up again, skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; when cold, put it into bottles and cork it well, and seal it down. It is best to pound the spices and salt in the mortar with the oysters. Oyster Loaves.—Open your oysters, and save the liquor ; wash them in it, then strain it through a sieve, and put a small quantity of it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter and flour, some white pepper, a very little nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, then cut them into dice; put them into rolls made for this purpose. Oysters (Minced).*—Take half a hun- dred oysters, put them into warm water, and when they are just ready to boil, shift them into cold; then drain them, and take the tender part only, and mince it fine. You will increase the size of your dish, and give a better flavour, if you mix the flesh of a carp with the oysters. Next put a piece of butter, shred parsley, green onions, and mushrooms into a stewpan, and shake the whole over the fire ; add some flour, and moisten with half a pint of white wine and the same quantity of soup maigre; then put in the minced oysters, and let them stew till the sauce is consumed; season according to taste, and when ready to serve, add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with some cream. Oysters au Naturel*—Open six dozen oysters, take two dozen of the largest, lay them on a dish in their shells, into each of which put two small oysters with their liquor; sprinkle them with pepper and shred parsley, and serve them. Oyster Patties.—Take some small patty pans, and line them with a fine puff paste, cover them with paste, putting a hit of bread into each; aud against they are baked, have ready the following to put in the place of the bread; or make the patty cases as directed in the receipt for petits pdtdes, and at dinner-time, fill with the following : Take some oysters, beard them and cut the other parts into small pieces, put them into a stewpan, with a very little grated nutmeg, the smallest quantity of white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon peel, cut as small as possible, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; simmer it a few minutes, before putting it into the patties, thicken with flour and butter. Oyster Patties.—Take six large oysters, and a fine silver eel, pick the meat from the bones, beat it in a marble mortar, with some pepper, salt, cloves, and just sufficient mountain wine to soften it; have ready some good puff paste, take one of the oys- ters, wrap it in this forcemeat, and put to it a bit of butter; close the patties and bake them. Oyster Patties or small Pie.—Open your oysters, and as you open them, separate them from the liquor, which must be strained ; beard the oysters, and then par- boil them ; parboil some sweetbreads, cut them in slices, lay them and the oysters inOYS OYS 392 layers, and season very moderately with salt, pepper, and mace; then add half a tea-cupful of liquor, and half a tea-cupful of gravy; bake in a slow oven, and before you serve, put a tea-cupful of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and a cupful of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. If for patties, the oysters must be cut into small dice, gently stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when ready for table. Oyster Petits Pattis*—Prepare your timbales in the usual way ; boil the oysters in their own liquor, when done, beard, and if large, cut them in half; put them into a bechamel, or if you have none, put a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a tea-spoon- ful of flour, and a little pepper, into a saucepan; stir them together over the fire, then add the liquor, still stirring, and in a little while, put in the oysters; thicken with the whites of two eggs, make it quite hot, but do not let it boil; put this preparation into the petits p&tes, and serve them. Oyster Patties a la Franfaise.*—Stew your oysters in their own liquor, beard and cut them into dice, also cut some mush- rooms into dice, and fry them in a little butter and flour; add some of the oyster liquor, one or two spoonsful of consommd, a ladleful of cream; when reduced, add a small quantity of butter, season with salt and Cayenne pepper; throw in the oysters, have the patties ready, and in a minute or two fill them with the above. Oysters (Pickled).—Procure some of the largest sort of oysters, and wash four dozen in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, add to it a dessert- spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, three table-spoonsful of white wine, and four of vinegar, and if the liquor is not very salt, you may put one table-spoonful of salt; simmer the oysters for a few mi- nutes in the liquor, then put them into small jars, and boil up the pickle, skim it, and when cold, pour it over the oysters; keep them closely covered. Oyster Sauce.—In opening the oysters save the liquor, and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon peel; in the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off, strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with the oysters just drained from the cold water, with a suffi- cient quantity of butter, mixed with as much milk as will make enough sauce ; but first rub a little flour with it; set them over the fire and stir all the time, and when the butter has boiled take them off, and keep the saucepan close to the fire, but not upon it; for if done too much, the oysters will become hard; add a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve. A little anchovy essence is a great improvement. Oyster Sauce for Entrees.—Blanch the oysters in their own liquor; then make a white roux, to which add a few small onions, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions; moisten with some of the oyster liquor, and a la- dleful or twro of consomme, set it on a brisk fire, and when reduced, add a pint of cream, season it; let the sauce be tolerably thick, strain it through a silk sieve, put in the oysters, and use it with those articles where it is required, such as fowl, turkey, chicken, &c. If served with fish, essence of anchovies must be added to the above ingredients. Oyster Sauce for Beef Steaks.-—Blanch a pint of oysters, and preserve their liquor; then wash and beard them, and put their liquor into a stewpan, with India soy and ' ketchup, a small quantity of each, a gill of cullis, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter,' J a little scraped horseradish and three sbal- 1 lots ; set them over a fire, and when they nearly boil, thicken with roux ; season ac- ] cording to taste, with a little Cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice ; strain it to the oysters, and stew them gently five mi- nutes. Oyster Sausages.—Take the lean of the inside of a loin of mutton clean from the skin and strings, the same of the kid- ney suet, and double the quantity of oys- ters, bearded, and wiped dry; chop all together very small, and season them with pepper and salt; then roll them up in flour, the size of sausages, and fry them in butter. Oysters (Scalloped).—Blanch the oys- ters, beard them, butter some scallop shells, spriukle them with pepper and very little salt, grated nutmeg, parsley chopped fine, and bread crumbs, put in your oysters, season again with the above ingredients, thicken some of the liquor with flour and butter, pour a little of it over the oysters, and then cover all over with bread crumbs, sprinkle some oiled butter on the top, set them in the oven for twenty minutes, and if not coloured, brown with the salamander. The parsley and nutmeg some object to : it may therefore be omitted. Oysters on Skewers.—Put a bit of butter into a stewpan, then put in some large oys- ters, and some mushrooms, with pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsle>- and sweetPAN 393 OYS P. herbs chopped, and a shake of flour; stir these about for half a minute, then put the oysters on silver skewers, with a mushroom between each; roll them in crumbs of bread; broil them ; put a little good gravy into the stewpan, thicken it, and add a little lemon juice ; serve the oysters on the skewers in a dish with the sauce. Oyster Soup.—Take some fish stock, according to the quantity of soup you intend making ; then take two quarts of oysters, beard them, and beat the hard part of them in a mortar, with the yolks of ten hard eggs, and add this to the stock ; simmer it all for half an hour, then strain it off, and put the rest of the oysters into the soup ; simmer for five minutes; have ready the yolks of six raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to the soup ; stir it all well one way, on the side of the fire, till it is thick and smooth, taking care not to let it boil; serve all together. Oyster Mouth Soup. — Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, three blades of mace, and black pepper r strain it, and pour it on a hundred and fifty oysters, previously bearded, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; let it sim- mer gently a quarter of an hour, and then serve. Oysters (Stewed).—Open, and take the liquor from them, then cleanse them from the grit; strain the liquor, and add the oysters, with a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, add a little cream, and a bit of butter mixed with flour ; serve with toasted sippets round the dish. Oysters en Surtout.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, drain, and give them a few turns over the fire, in a little butter, shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and a few yolks of eggs ; then chop up the oysters, and mix them with bread-crumbs soaked in cream, shalots, mushrooms, parsley (all shred small), yolks of eggs, pepper, and salt; fill some scallops with this farce, • cover them with bread-crumbs and orated Parmesan cheese, put them into the oven i for a quarter of an hour. Oyster Toast.*—1 ake one dozen of 1 large oysters and two anchovies, and chop them together, put in a bit of butter, and some oyster liquor, and let them stew gently till the butter is melted ; then cut 'some slices from a roll, and fry them in butter of a nice brown, but not hard ; lay the oyster on the fried bread, and serve. PANADA.*—Boil some pieces of stale bread in a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover them, with a little cinnamon, le- mon-peel, and carraways; when the bread is quite soft, press out all the water, and beat up the bread with a small piece of butter, a little milk, and sugar to the taste ; a little spice may be added. Panada.—Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white wine, some sugar, a very little nutmeg, and lemon-peel ; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread : the moment the water boils up, put in the bread-crumbs (without taking it off the fire), and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper consistence, that is, when just of a sufficient thickness to drink, take it off the fire. P ana da for Farces, &; c.—Soak the crumb of four rolls in milk; in a few minutes squeeze the milk from them, put them into a thick-bottomed stewpan, with a little bechamel and cream, and some parsley, mushrooms, shalots, or young onions, all chopped fine, washed, and passed in a little butter; reduce all this to a very stiff paste on the fire, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, and as it dries, put a very small bit of butter in to make it yield from the pan ; continue to stir it till very stiff, and then add three yolks of eggs to it, and put it away to cool for use. In some cases the herbs must be omitted. PANCAKES*—Make a good batter in the usual way with eggs, milk, and flour, with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, and brandy; pour this into a pan, so that it lays very thin ; let your lard, or whatever else you fry them in, be quite hot. When one side is done, toss it up lightly to turn it. Serve with lemon or Seville orange- juice, and sugar. PANCAKES dZa Franfaise.—Put nearly a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin or stewpan,with a table-spoonful of pounded ratafia, a thin rind of a lemon, and two ounces of sugar pounded ; then mix in, one at a time, three whole eggs, and the yolks of three ; when thoroughly mixed, put in a little milk, half a pint of cream, with a little orange-flower water, beat your batter well, and let it be just tbe thickness of good cream; when you fry the pancakes, make them very thin, use good clarified butter, which put into your pan, and pour it off again, taking care that none remains at the bottom of the pan, as it would make the pancakes greasy; when you havo394 PAR PAN finished frying, leave a table-spoonful of the batter in the stewpan, to which add a little pounded ratafia, sugar, orange-flower, and the yolk of an egg, which mix up with the cream; set it on the fire, and when it boils, put it in a boat for sauce to the pancakes. Pancakes a. Tltalienne.— Make your pancakes the same as pancakes a la Fran- fake, and when fried, lay them open on a clean dresser, spread them over with an Italienne cream, roll them up, and lay them in order on your dish ; be particular to put the brown side outwards. PANNEQUETS Glacis.*—Put into a pan two ounces of sifted flour, four of pow- der-sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoonful of dried orange-flowers; break up all these articles, and mix with them the yolks of ten eggs, four large glasses of double cream, and a pinch of salt. Butter the bottom of a frying-pan lightly with some warm clarified butter, then put in it a spoonful of the above pre- paration, spread it over the pan to make the paste as thin as possible; when the pannequet becomes lightly coloured, turn it over carefully, and do the other side; then put it on a tin plate, spread a little apricot marmalade over, and having strewed crushed macaroons on that, roll up the pannequet till about an inch in diameter; in the mean time put a second spoonful of your preparation into the pan, and pro- ceed in the above manner, garnishing one pannequet whilst another is cooking, taking care, however, to set the pan over a gentle lire. When all are done, cut the pannequets three inches in length, glaze, and dish them en couronne. Pannequets a la Royale.* — Prepare your pannequets the same as pannequets glacis, filling them with chocolate creme pAtissiere, instead of apricot marmalade. Make the last pannequet much larger than the rest, and do not roll it, but when the others are dished en couronne, place the re- served pannequet over them (cutting out the middle ; being very thin, it takes the form of the couronne, and wash its surface with the white of an egg whipped firm, and mixed with two spoonsful of powder sugar, then strew over some crushed sugar, put it into a gentle oven, and make of a nice colour. Any other cream pdtissicre is equally good. The pannequets may also be made thus : when taken out of the pan, place them on a layer of paste, about six inches in diameter j put on each pannequet some apricot marmalade, with crushed maca- roons strewed over, and when all are done, meringuez the upper one. Ojy as follows : put six of these panne- quets one on another, then, with a paste- cutter of two inches and a half diameter, cut them out, dip them in beaten eggs, and afterwards in bread-crumbs; repeat this operation, and then having fried them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve them. PARFAIT Amour.* — Take four very fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, and infuse them with half an ounce of fine cinnamon, and four ounces of cori- ander, in three gallons of strong brandy, and a quart of water, for a week or ten days, when distil it in the bain-marie; this quantity of brandy, if good, will yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. Dis- solve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of river water, colour it with cochineal, then add it to the spirit, filter, and bottle it. Parfait Amour, Frontage Bavarois.*—• Pare the rinds of two lemons and a small cedrat as thin as possible, infuse them with six bruised cloves, and half a pound of powder sugar, in two glasses of boiling milk; in an hour’s time strain it otf, and add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a little infusion of cochineal, to make the fromage of a rose colour; set it, as usual, on ice, mix the cream with it as soon as it begins to thicken, and finish as directed, (See Fromage Bavarois.) Paiifait Amour (Transparent Jelly of).* I —Pare the rind of two lemons and a cedrat as thin as possible, and infuse it with half a dozen cloves (bruised) in a boiling svrup made with twelve drachms of sugar ; add a little cochineal to make it of a delicate rose colour. When cold, mix with the infusion half a glass of kirschenwasser, filter, and having put the ounce of isinglass , to it, finish as directed. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Parfait Amour Soufle (Franfais of).*— Rub upon a pound of lump sugar the testes of two lemons, and two large cedrats, scraping oft' the surface as it becomes co- loured ; infuse this sugar in nine glasses of boiling hot milk, with the addition of a dozen cloves, for half an hour; strain the infusion through a napkiu, mix it with the usual ingredients, and finish as directed, (See Souffle Francois.) PARSLEY (Fried).—Pick some parsley (but not very fine), wash it well, and put in on a sieve to drain; after the fish, cro- quettes, &c., are fried, while the fat isPAR 395 PAR very hot, put in die parsley; stir it about ■with a cullender-spoon for a minute ; then spread it out on a sheet of paper ; this is generally used for croquettes, or fried fish. Parsley, Green (Eitract of.')—Take about two handsful of fresh double parsley, wash and pick it, then put it in a mortar, and having pounded it until you can ob- tain no more moisture, press the juice through a cloth into a stewpan, set it in a bain-marie to keep it hot without, boiling. When you find it poached, place it on a tammy to drain. This green is used for entrees and sauces, as it not only colours them, but imparts an agreeable flavour. Parsley Pie.—Season a fowl, or a few bones of a scrag of veal, lay it in a dish ; scald a cullenderful of picked parsley in milk ; season it, and add it to the meat or fowl, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or meat gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream, scalded, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a little flour. Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parslev, and scalded before put in. Parsley Sauce.—Take a handful of parsley, and having washed and picked, pound it well; put it into a stewpan, with some good cullis, set it on the fire, and let it simmer a quarter of an hour, then strain it; add a bit of butter rolled in flour, a liaison, and a little lemon-juice. Parsley Sauce, when Parsley leaves can- not be obtained.—Tie a little parsley seed up in a bit of muslin, and boil it in water for ten minutes. Make use of this water in melting the butter, and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to have the appearance of parsley. PARSNIPS (Boiled.)—Let them boil in plenty of water, with salt, till tender, then serve them on a dish by themselves; or, when boiled, cut them in slices, and toss them up in a good bit of butter; they are generally eaten with salt fish. Parsnip Wine*—To every fourpounds of parnips, cleaned and quartered, put one gallon of water; boil them till quite ten- der ; drain them through a sieve, but do not bruise them, as no remedy would clear them afterwards; pour the liquor into a tub, and to eacli gallon add three pounds of loaf sugar, and half an ounce of crude tartar; when coolled to the temperature of seventy-five degrees, put in a little new yeast, let it stand four days in a warm room, then turn it. The mixture should, if possible, be fermented in a temperature of sixty degrees ; when the fermentation has subsided, bung down the cask, and let it stand at least twelve months before bottling. March and September are the best seasons for making it. It only re- quires to be kept a few years to render it superior to all other made wines, in die same degree as East India Madeira sur- passes Cape. PARTRIDGES (to choose).— When they are young the bill is of a dark colour, and their legs are of a yellowish colour ; and when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part will look greenish when stale. The plu- mage on the breast of the hen is light, that on the cock is tinged with red. Partridges d la Allemande.—Take two partridges that have hung for some time, cut off all the meat, remove all the skin, nerves, &c., and pound the rest widi half a pound of butter, some crumbs soaked in boiling cream, and two eggs; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make the above into balls, about as big as marbles ; place them on a dish for table, pour over them a sauce, composed of the bones of the par- tridges, boiled in consotnmd, thickened with the yolks of six eggs, and strained. Set the dish in a bain-marie till the balls swell, and are sufficiently done. Partridges a, l’Avglaise.* —Make a farce with the livers of three partridges, a little butter, and some pepper, with which fill your birds, roast them about three parts, then put them into a stewpan ; raise each joint (but do not divide them entirely from the body) ; put between every part a little butter, worked up with bread crumbs, shred shalots, parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; dilute with a glass of Champagne, and two spoonsful of con- somme ; stew them till quite done, squeeze over the juice of two Seville oranges, add a little of their peel, grated, and serve them. Partridges (Boudins of). — Having made the boudins of quenelles of partridges, put them, with a little salt, into a well buttered stewpan, cover them with boiling water; poach, and then drain them ; when cold, dip them into an omelet, then into crumbs of bread, and fry them ; drain the boudins thoroughly, and serve with an Italienne. These boudins may also be broiled, in which case they should be dipped in yolks of eggs, rolled in bread crumbs, then im- mersed in warmed butter, breaded again, and then broiled slowly.396 PAR PAR Partridges (Broiled).*—Take five par- tridges, cut them in halves, trim and dip them in melted butter, and bread them twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them. Serve them with a sauce a la Diable. Partridges with Cabbages.*—Take as many birds as you may require for a dish, and dress them as directed for pheasants, with cabbages. Partridges with Red Cabbage.—Take two red cabbages, and cut them in fine shreds, which thoroughly wash, and put them to stew, with a good piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt; if they begin to stick to the bottom of the stewpan, put in a small ladleful of stock, continuing to add this quantity of stock every time they appear dry, till done; then mix in two table-spoonsful of vinegar, and lay them neatly on the dish, and then upon this lay three partridges well stewed. Partridges a la Cendre* — Truss as many partridges as you choose, as if for roasting; take an equal number of sheets of white paper, on each of which lay about twenty slices of truffles, and on them a partridge ; fold over every one two more sheets of paper, turning the edges up, so that the birds may be entirely excluded from the air. Bury them completely in hot ashes, and in a quarter of an hour turn and leave them for the same space of time ; then take them from the papers, and serve with the truffles. Partridge au Charbon*— Take five young partridges, cut each in half, flatten and put in the claw, so as to resemble the bone of a chop; beat them lightly, and season with salt and pepper; dip each in melted butter, and roll them in minced truffles ; about a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them. Serve with a demi- glaze, in which is a little lemon juice. Partridge (Chartreuse of)*—Take a middling sized cabbage, cut it in half, and blanch it; in a few minutes take it out, drain and press out all the water; when cold, tie them up with two partridges, properly trussed and larded ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, on which place the cabbage, two servelas, six sausages, two carrots, two onions, season with pepper and salt; lay more slices over, and set it on a gentle fire. While it is cooking, cut some turnips, car- rots, and onions, into thin slices, as near of n size as you can, and put them with young French beans, or any other vegetable you may like, into some stock, stirring them constantly over the fire till they are dona, when drain them. Take a plain round mould, butter it well, and lay round the bottom of it the carrots, &c., properly ar- ranged, leaving the centre open, into which, put first the cabbage, and then the partridges, breasts downwards, the serve- las, sausages, and bacon, so that the mould be entirely filled; make it hot in a bain mariebefore it is turned out (which must be done with great care), place the mould in a slanting direction, that all fat may be drained off. Partridges (Cutlets of).*—Take the fil- lets of six partridges, and having removed the skin, beat them with the handle of the knife ; then take the pinion bones, scrape and thrust them into the ends of the fillets; melt a sufficient quantity of butter in a frying-pan, put in the fillets, sprinkle them with a little salt, and brown them lightly. Having drained the fillets, let the butter cool a little, and add to it the yolks of two eggs; dip your fillets in this, bread 'and place them on a gridiron, over hot ashes ; colour both sides; dish them en couronne, and serve with a clear reduced fumet, or sauce a la Diable. Partridges a la Daube Sicilienne.—Your birds being properly trussed, lard them with equal portions of bacon and ancho- vies, rolled in spices, but without salt; then put them into a braising pan, with a knuckle of veal, a quarter of a pound of butter, two glasses of brandy, a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the whole, a bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, two of garlic, and two onions; set these on a slow fire for five or six hours; then take out the birds, put them into a tureen, strain the sauce, and pour it over them, stirring occasionally: as soon as you perceive it begins to form a jelly, mix a little butter with it, which will give it the appearance of marble. Partridges a VEspagnole*— Put a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, a little pepper, and a slice of ham in a stewpan; add the partridges, and set them on a slow fire, that they may not take colour ; in a little while put to them six ladiesful of espagnole, half a bottle of white wine, a bay leaf, parsley, scallions, and a clove; when these have simmered three quarters of an hour, take out the birds, lay them in a dish, and having cleared away the fat, and reduced the sauce to half, strain it over and serve. Partridges a VEtouffade.* — a three partridges, properly prepared, laiPAR PAR 397 them with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, pounded herbs ; truss, and having tied them up, put them into a stewpan on sliced bacon, cover them with veal, add two carrots, two onions, two cloves, par- sley, scallions, salt, thyme, and bay leaf ; lay bacon and a buttered paper over the whole ; pour in a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and simmer them for an hour and a half; then take out the birds, drain and untie them; put three ladiesful of espagnole, the same of fume of game, reduce it to half, and pour it over the partridges. Partridges {Galantine of) with Truffles* —Take all the meat from a small leveret; put aside the filets, of which make a scallop, weigh the remainder of the meat, and mince it with double its weight of fat bacon, and half a pound of ham; when mixed, add a sufficient quantity of spiced salt, and the yolk of an egg. Bone three fine partridges, spread them open on a napkin, make them of as equal a thickness as you can, by paring away the thicker parts, and laying the pieces on those which are thinner; season them with the spiced salt, put on each a sixth part of the farce, spread this all over their surface, and lay on it three truffles, cut in halves, which make six pieces for every bird; wrap these each in a bit of pork caul, and in the space between, place some of the scallop of leveret; season, and lay the re- mainder of the farce over. Sew up the partridges in their original form, wrap each first in slices of bacon, and then in a linen cloth, tie them up, and place them in a stewpan lined with bacon; put in the bones of the leveret and partridges, four onions, four carrots, a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, bay leaf, basil, four cloves, two calf’s feet, a sufficient quantity of consomme to cover the surface of the ga- lantine, a glass of dry Madeira, and two dessert-spoonsful of old brandy; cover the whole with a buttered paper; set it off on a brisk fire, and then let it simmer gently for two hours. At the end of that time take it off; when nearly cold, drain it, and when quite so, remove the wrappers, trim the birds lightly, and glaze them: put them properly on a dish and ornament them, and then dish with jelly according to your taste. J Partridge Habille*—Having trussed a partridge, put into the body a piece of butter the size of a walnut, tie it up in bacon, and roast it till about two thirds done; in the meantime, make a farce with the liver, parsley, slialots, crumb of bread and butter, all pounded together; take up the partridge, raise all its joints, and place some of the farce under each, press the parts down again, tie up the bird, and stew it over a slow fire in equal quantities of consomme and white wine. Partridges a I’ltalienne.—Thoroughly stew three partridges, with a farce in their crops (or they may be boned), and the in- sides stuffed with plenty of good farce, lay them in a dish, and with a spoon garnish them with an Italienne sauce. Partridges {Loaf).—Make a puree of partridges, adding to it ten or a dozen raw eggs, rub it through a coarse sieve ; take a plain circular mould, butter it well, and fill it with the puree, put it into the bain- marie, and let it simmer for three hours • then turn it out on a dish and pour over a fumet of game. Partridges (Manselle of).* — Cut up four roasted partridges, put all the best parts into a saucepan to keep them hot • put the remainder of the birds into a mor- tar, with six shalots, a little parsley, pep- per, and a bay leaf; pound them well, and then put them into a saucepan, and half a glass of white wine, the same of stock, four ladiesful of espagnole, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce these to about half, then rub it through a sieve on to the birds' and serve them. Partridges a la Mayonnaise.*—Cutup three cold roasted partridges, trim the peices, and put them into a basin with salt, pepper, vinegar, a little oil, and a minced ravigote; when they have lain a sufficient time in this, drain and place them in a dish, taking care tohave the three breasts upper- most, garnish them round with jelly, and pour over a mayonnaise; decorate the top with fillets of anchovies, gherkin, ca- pers, and hard eggs. Partridges (Minced) —Take the fillets from eight roasted partridges, mince and put them into a sacepan ; make a light rouse, in which put the livers and bones of the birds, a bay leaf, a clove, three shalots, and a little sage, give them a few turns, and then add two large glasses of stock, reduce the sauce to half, strain and put it to the mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth • make it hot, but not boiling; serve it over fried bread, and garnish your dish with either poached or hard eggs. Partridges a la Monglas.* — Having prepared and trussed your partridges, roast and let them stand till cold ; then take oft' the breasts, so that the remainder of the598 PAR PAR birds may have the form of an oval well; cut the meat oft' the breasts, two or three truffles, aud a score of small mushrooms into dice, mix them together; take six ladiesful of espagnole, the same offumet of game ; reduce them to a third, and strain them over the mince ; heat your partridges in the bain-marie; place the birds in a dish, pour the ragout into them, and serve with espagnole travaillee. Partridges en Pain*—Take a nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight; make a hole at one end, through which take out all the crumbs, rub the crust over with a little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for a few minutes to dry; fill this with minced partridge (see that article), and put the loaf, bottom upwards, into a stewpan; add two spoonsful of veal blond, with any other garnish you please ; let it remain on the fire till the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to penetrate it, then take it out and dish it with the sauce round. Partridge mix Papillotes.*—Cut a good sized partridge completely in half, from the neck to the rump ; put some butter into a pan, and do up the two pieces in it over the fire ; in about eight or ten minutes take them out, cover with herbs en papil- lotes, and let them stand to cool; then take a square piece of paper, large enough to hold the half bird, rub it over with oil, lay a thin slice of bacon on it, then the bird, with the herbs, another thin slice of bacon, and fold the paper over the whole, and broil them slowly on a moderate fire. Serve them with a clear gravy. Partridge Pie in a Dish.—Take four partridges, pick and singe them ; cut otf their logs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mush- rooms. - Put a veal steak and a slice of ham at the bottom of the dish ; put in the par- tridges with half a pint of good consomme. Line the edges of the dish with puff-paste, and cover with the same ; do it over with e°-g, and let it bake for an hour. DPartridges (Standing Pie of) Chaude- froid* Make about six pounds of raised paste, which wrap in a damp cloth, and set it aside. Take five partridges, pick and bone them; weigh the meat, and to each pound put a quarter of an ounce of spiced salt; cut the meat from two wild rabbits, of which take a pound and a half, mince this with two pounds and a quarter of fat bacon, then put both these articles into a mortar, and pound them with eight drachms of spiced salt, two yolks, one whole egg, a shalot minced and blanched, a dessert spoonful of parsley, two of mush- rooms, two of truffles (all well minced); rub thin farce through a quenelle sieve, and mix it in a pan, with a pound of truffles cut into dice, and a table-spoonful of veloutd or espagnole. Cut a pound of fat bacon into small lardons, which roll in four drachms of spiced salt, and two spoonsful of parsley, mushrooms, and truffles, all shred small; with some of these lard the partridges withinside, so that the lardons may not penetrate the skin ; and with the remainder lard a noix of veal. Having thus prepared your ingredients, proceed as follows : Form three-fourths of your paste into a standing crust, eight inches in diameter, and eight in height, into which put about half the farce, spread it smoothly all over the bottom, to form a bed of four or five inches thick; lay open the partridges, strew half their proportion of spiced salt, put in each a spoonful of the farce, and form them into a kind of heart; prick the skins in two or three places with the point of a knife, and lay them on the pie, fill up the interstices with farce, and strew over the remaining portion of their spiced salt. Weigh the noix of veal, and accord- ing to its weight, take the spiced salt (four drachms to a pound), trim the noix as round as you can, place it on the partridges, fill up the space round it with farce; strew the seasoning over, and cover the whole with a pound of the best hutter cut in pieces, and so placed as to form a kind of dome, and on these lay slices of bacon and two bay leaves. Roll out the remainder of the paste for the top, making it eleven inches in diameter ; moisten the edges of the pie, and lay the cover on it, make a hole in the middle ; dorez and place the pie in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, then take it out, and tie it in some paste- board cut for the purpose, and replace it for four hours; at the end of that time take it out, put a piece of paste over the hole, and leave it to cool. When perfectly cold, cut off the lid carefully, take out the veal, and put in its place a salmi chaud- froid of partridges; lay these in order, pour the sauce over; replace the lid, and serve it on a folded napkin. These chaud-froid pies mav bo com- posed of all kinds of fowl, pheasants, wood- cocks, leverets, &c., according to your taste or convenience. Partridges Poeles*—Take the entrails, livers, and gizzards, from three partridges (all the same size), through the crop, veryPAR 399 PAR carefully; beat up three quarters of a pound of butter, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, pepper, and pounded aromatics; fill your partridges with this, and truss them like a fowl ; then put them in a stew- pan on slices of bacon, cover them with the same and sliced lemon; pour a poeld over, and simmer for half an hour; then take them out, drain and serve with a crayfish between each; make your sauce with espagnole and fumet as usual. Partridge (Potted).— Let your par- tridges be thoroughly cleaned, then season them with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay them in a pan with the breast downwards, packing the birds as close as possible. Put plenty of butter over them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste, and a paper over that, closely down, and then bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. Partridges, (Puree of).—This puree is made in the same manner as that of fowls, substituting an espugnole traivaille, and fumet of game for the becliamelle and ve- lout£. Partridges (Quenelles of).— Take the skin and sinews from three young par- tridges ; mince and pound them well; rub it through a sieve, and mix it with equal quantities of panada and calf's udder; pound all three together till thoroughly in- corporated, then add one yolk and two whole eggs; season to your taste, and poach them as usual. (See Quenelles.) Partridges (Quenelles of) a la Sefton.— Make some quenelles with the meat of three very young partridges as above directed, and set the preparation on ice. When per- fectly cold, form the boudin; poach and serve them with the following sauce ; mix four spoonsful of becliamelle with three of double cream, two of a glaze made of game, add a little salt, and a small quan- tity of Cayenne pepper; work these up till quite clear, and then pour it over the quenelles. 1 artridges (to roast).— Proceed in the same manner as in the directions for roast- ing pheasants. Partridges (Salmis of).*— Take four roasted partridges, cut them in pieces as neatly as possible, and put them into a stewpan; bruise the remnants, put them mto another saucepan, with six ladiesful of espagnole, six shalots, a glass of white wine, a little parsley, a bay "leaf, a glass of stock, pepper and salt; set this on a brisk fire, and when reduced to half, strain it over the partridges ; make the whole hot, but do not let it boil; dish your salmis, dip some fried or toasted bread in the sauce, and lay them on the top. Partridges (Salmis of) de Chasseur*— Cut up two or three roasted partridges, and put the pieces into a stewpan, with three dessert-spoonsful of olive oil, half a glass of red wine, a little salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, and some of the peel; toss the joints up in this sauce, and when suf- ficiently done, serve them. Partridges (Salmis of) cold*—Make your salmis as usual, but instead of strain- ing the sauce over the pieces, put it into another saucepan, add to it three spoonsful of jelly, reduce, and strain it again, and let it cool; when quite cold, dip your pieces into it, one at a time, and arrange them on a dish, the breasts at the top; decorate your dish with jelly, and serve. Partridges, Salmis of (Table) *—If you wish to make a salmis at table, cut up your birds, and lay the pieces in a silver chafing dish, add to them, salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel grated, a few shalots minced (pounded garlic, if desired), and some raspings strewed over the top ; let it simmer about ten minutes, and then serve. Partridges in a Salmis or Hash.—Take a brace of partridges that have been roasted, and very neatly cut off the wings, legs, and breasts; put them into a stew- pan, and put the backbone into another stewpan, with a bit of lean ham, a small onion, a few stalks of parsley, a few pep- percorns, one clove of garlic, a glass of sherry, a ladleful of good stock, and a ladleful of plain sauce ; let the whole boil over a gentle fire to the consistence of sauce in general: this done, squeeze it through a tammy to the legs and wings which were put into the other stewpan ; put it to the fire to be very hot, then add the juice of half a lemon, a liaison of the yolk of one egg, and a table-spoonful of cream; shake the whole well together, lay the partridges on the dish, and serve them to table. Partridge Sautd.*—Having prepared a partridge as for la Tartare, put a good piece of butter into a frying-pan, lay in the bird, breast downwards ; set it on a brisk fire, strew salt and pepper over, and when it is firm to the touch, turn and do the other side. Serve with a reduced espagnole, and half the juice of a lemon. Partridge (Scallops of).*—Cut thePAR 400 PAR large and small fillets of four partridges into scallops, sprinkle them with salt, and fry them lightly in some butter ; then, having drained them, take out the butter,, and put into the pan three spoonsful of fumet of game, and two of allemande; give them a boil, and put the scallops into it, with some sliced truffles or mushrooms, a small piece of butter, and lemon juice. Dish them with croquettes of game round, glaze, and serve. Partridges (Souffld of).—Cut off the meat from some cold roasted partridges, chop and pound it well with some veloutS and butter; season it well, add the yolks of four or five eggs, and rub thepuree through a sieve into a basin. >> hip the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, which mix lightly with the puree ; put the whole carefully into a dish, and bake it. Lay a paper over the top to prevent its burning. Twenty minutes are sufficient to do it properly. It should be served the moment it is taken out ot the oven. _ _ tt Partridge a la St. Laurent* Haying 'picked and otherwise prepared your par- tridges, cut off the claws, and truss the legs"within the body near the rump, with- out, however, mailing a large hole ; then spread out the birds, and beat them on the breasts, in order to give them as much surface as possible; sprinkle them we 1 with salt and pepper, and lay them breast downwards in a pan, in which is a little oil, set it on the fire, and when one side is done, turn them; about half an hour before dinner, broil them very slowly; take two ladiesful of espagnole, the juice ot a lemon and a half, some of the peel, a little salt and pepper ; give this one boil, and when the partridges are done, serve with this sauce over them. Partridges a la Sultane. Take four partridges, from one of which cut all the meat, remove the sinews, &c. and pound it with some calf’s cudder, mushrooms, ami anchovy, add a little conwmm*. and stuff the three remaining birds with this farce • lard them with anchovies and mushrooms placed alternately ; roast diem before a slow fire, basting them eitherw th / ofnrV * brown them nicelyt consomme or stocK, uru - , sprinkle salt and pounded spice over, and serve them hot. . „ T , three Partridges en Surprise, —lake three very fresh partridges, clean and bone them all but the largo bone of the leg, on ea o» L clawB; lay tl.am o,,.a on » season with salt and pepper, and spread over them a thin layer of partridge farce- cuile ; fill up the bodies with a cold sal- picon; roll and sew them into their origi- nal form, truss the claws outwards, put them into a pan with a little butter, and brown the breasts; let them cool, and then lard the breasts. Break the bones, and put them into a stewpan, with a thin slice of ham, two onions, a clove, a carrot, a little mace, a well-seasoned bouquet, a glass of Madeira, a spoonful of conmsom(, and some grated bacon; put the birds into this, cover them with a double paper, but- tered ; cover the saucepan close, put fire on the lid, and set them on a brisk fire for half an hour; let the breasts be as much coloured as if roasted; drain and dish them. Serve with fumet of game, or their own sauce strained. Partridge <1 la Tartare*—The partridge being trussed properly, dip it into melted butter, let it be well covered with, it, sprinkle salt and pepper over, and roll it in bread-crumbs, then broil it very slowly; when done, serve it over a remoulade or sauce a la Tartare; or, if you like it better, a sauce piquante, or clear gravy. Partridges with Truffles. Prepare three or four partridges, with truffles in the inside, the same as directed for phea- sants ; only, instead of roasting, stew them in a good braize ; then, having a few truffles well prepared, and mixed in good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon ; and when i ery hot, pour the whole over the partridges, and serve. „ „ . „ Partridges with Truffles. Empty three partridges through the breasts with great care; put a pound of grated bacon into a saucepan ; add some middling-size truffles, in quarters, salt, pepper, and spices; when they simmer, throw in the trimmings of the truffles; take it oft m about ten minutes, and when cold stuff the partridges with this preparation ; tie them up as round as you can, and put them into a saucepan, between slices of bacon ; make a poele without any lemon, pour tins over, and simmer an hour and a half; then dram, untie, and lav them in a disli. Mince two truffles, give them a few turns in a little butter: then add three ladiesful of ctpag- vole, and three of fumet of game; reduce the sauce to half, take off the fat, and serve it over the birds. _ .. Partridges to truss.—Partridges > done in exactly the same way as pheasants are trussed. (See Pheasants.) Partridges ft la VUleroi.-Put ^ome small onions into a little stock, with a bit401 PAS PAS : of butter, salt, and pepper, and liaving 7 given them a boil, reduce the sauce, and :i let the onions take colour; when tolerably brown, stuff two or three partridges (boned) ! wit!) them, truss them as if whole, fry :i them lightly in a little oil, with parsley, a shalots, and mushrooms; then braize them slowly for about four or five hours in stock and white wine, with slices of bacon and veal; kim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis, reduce, and serve it under the partridges. Partridges (Filletsof) a la Chingara.—■ Take the fillets of three partridges, and having trimmed, fry them lightly in a little butter; then cover them with a piece of buttered paper ; take sis slices of tongue a I’ecarlute, cut them to the size and shape of the fillets, heat them with some stock in a deep dish; mince the trimmings of the tongue; then reduce three spoonsful of espagnole and the fumet (made with the remnants of the partridges) to a demi- glaze. Dish the fillets en couronne, with the tongue between each, pour a part of the sauce over them; put the mince to the remainder; mix them well, add to them a small piece of butter, and put it into the I centre of the dish. Partridge (Fillets of) a la Mnnglas.*•— Take the fillets from six partridges, re- move the skin, decorate one side with truffles placed in chequers, and lay them this side downwards in melted butter, do not let them touch; cover them with a buttered paper; take an equal number of the small fillets, fry them lightly, and when cold cut them into scallops, with as many truffles and mushrooms ; reduce four spoonsful of veloute, and two of espagnole, strain it over the scallops, and keep them hot in the bain-marie; fry the fillets lightly over hot ashes ; when nearly done, add a small quantity of demi-glaze. Arrange your fillets round a dish alternately with fried bread cut in hearts, pour the scallops into the centre, glaze, and serve. ^ Partridge (Fillets of) with Oranges.*— Take the fillets from eight roasted par- tridges (they should be but slightly done), place them on a piece of fried bread, and pour over them the following sauce :— four ladiesful of espagnole travailld, a little I whole pepper, the juice of a Seville orange, and some of the peel : give this a boil, and 1 pour it over. i PASTE (Faff).—Be very particular j that your slab or paste-table, rolling-pin, and cutters, are clean, and free from all old paste; and be very careful that both the flour and butter are extremely good. Have a dry sieve always in readiness, in or by the flour-tub, so as to use none with- out sifting it; for, though it may appear pure and fine, bran, or small particles of old paste, may have fallen into it; sifting is, therefore, always necessary. Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a circle on the slab ; break one egg in the centre, put a small quantity of salt, and a little bit of butter; mix all these to- gether lightly, add a little water, mix them again, then add more water, and so proceed until it binds into paste ; but take care that you do not make it too stiff, nor squeeze it much together, till you find there is sufficient water ; then work it well together, and roll it out on the slab, but do not roll it too thin; work a pound of butter on the slab, spread it out to the size of the paste, with a knife cut it off altogether, and lay it on the paste ; then double the ends of the paste together, to inclose the butter; then give it one turn thus : roll it out till you just perceive the butter through the paste ; turn the end which is next to you half way over, and the other end over that, roll it once or twice with the rolling- pin ; then let it stand : this is called one turn : then, in three minutes time turn it again, and so proceed until you have given it six turns ; then roll it out and cut it for petits-pdtes, or any shape you please ; but observe not to put over them too much egg, as that will prevent their rising; as soon as they are baked, take them off the sheet, lay them on paper, and when cold scrape the bottoms, neatly cut out the insides, ready for whatever you mean to put into them. For baking, see Directions for the Oven. Paste (Royal) called Petit Choux.—Boil in half a pint of water the peel of a lemon, a little sugar, a quarter of a pound of but- ter, and a few bits of cinnamon; add a pinch of salt. Strain it, and put imme- diately to it as much dry flour as it can possibly absorb ; stir it well on the fire till it quits the pan ; take it oft', and while it is hot, stir in as man y eggs one by one as will make it of a good consistence • about six eggs will do it. Paste (Croquante).*—Blanch a pound of almonds, dry them well in the stove, and pound them to a dry paste, adding occasionally white of egg and orange- flower, put the paste into a stewpan, and set. it on a slow fire, putting in the sugar a little at a time, and stirring constantly. When the paste is sufficiently consistent, 2 D40:2 PAS PAS put it in n heap on the table to cool, and then form it into cakes of any shape you please. Paste (Croquante) a Vltalienne.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of orange-flowers, the rind of a lemon, a pound and a half of powder sugar ; blanch and pound the almonds, mixing with them the orange-flowers and lemon-peel, adding occasionally white of egg ; in the mean •time, clarily the sugar, hoil it to petit boule, and then take the pan from the fire, throw in die paste, mix it in; then replace the pan, stirring till die preparation no longer adheres to the pan, when put it into a dish, sprinkled well with sugar. As soon as it is cold, form it into cakes or tourtes, and bake it in a moderate oven. Paste (German).*—Take three pounds of flour, a pound of butter, half a pound of su°-ar, half a pound of almonds, cut in long slices] and half a pound of dried currants ; make a leaven with a fourth part of the flour, in the same manner as for a brioche, and put the remainder into a pan with the butter, warmed, the sugar, and almonds; mix them altogether, add an ounce of salt a o-lass of cream, and as many eggs as will make your paste rather thick, hut soft ; then put the leaven, stir it in well, pour it into a buttered mould, throw a cloth over, and let it stand five or six hours in a warm place to rise; at the end of that time, put it into a hot oven to bake it. Paste a la Madeleine.*—Put into a stew- pan a pound of flour, a pound of powder- sugar, half a pound of warmed butter, a little orange flower, and six eggs, or more if necessary. Mix these together well, and then pour the preparation into one large or several small moulds well but- tered • make them smooth at the top, and bake in a gentle oven : turn them out and dry them in the oven. » Paste for liaised Pies. — Take four pounds of flour, one pound of butter, and a little salt, mix these together, adding water a little at a time, taking care not to put too much, as this paste must he made as stiff' as possible; when thoroughly mixed, give it two or three turns, roll it and cut it out to the shape you want for your pie. Sometimes the butter is melted in hot water, and so mixed with the flour ; then it will not require so much water, and the paste will stand better ; but as you work your paste, when you find . get too cold, warm it a little ; the first method of doing it is tho best, if intended to be eaten. Paste (Short) for Tarts. —Take one pound of flour, lay it on the slab, and in the centre put half a pound of butter, two eggs, a very little salt, and a little water, mix them lightly together, and continue ; adding more water till you find it bind; mix it on the slab a little, and give it two turns, it is then ready for use. Paste a la Turque.*— Pound eight i ounces of blanched almonds to a fine paste, when add a pound of fine flour, half a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, a tea-spoonful 1 of saffron in powder; beat these ingre- - dients together thoroughly, and put in as many eggs as will make your paste soft; . then butter a baking tin, upon which i spread the paste of an equal thickness; . mark on its surface whatever formed cakes you like ; bake in a gentle oven, and when done, divide it according to the marks. Pistachios may be used instead I of almonds. PASTILLES*—To make these articles it is necessary to have a small copper i stewpan that will hold about a pint, rather deep than wide, with a pointed lip on the right side, and a tolerably long handle, also' two pieces of wood, one about eighteen, inches long, and four in diameter, called the bois a labeller, the other about half the length, one inch in diameter, and the lower end pointed so that it will exacuy fit the lip of the pan; this is called the bois a, egovtter ; six or eight tin plates about the size of a sheet of letter paper. Eor the best pastilles, take a pound of double-refined sugar reduced to an impalp- able powder; sift it through a tammy on a sheet of white paper, put four or five spoonsful of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a little orange-flower water, and beat it well with the larger stick until the pre- paration is sufficiently thin to run iroUt the stick without being clear; if it be so, more sugar must be added. Put the pan over a chafing dish filled with live conk, and let it stand (Stirling constantly.I till it boils ; then take it off the chafing disfi, add two more spoonsful of sugar, work up well, scrape away whatever sugar a heres to tho stick, set it aside, and take the smaller stick in your right hand, h the pan in your left (slanting) over one ot the tin plates; the sugar will, br these means, flow to the lip, then strike tbe point of the stick into the hp of < m pan, which action will separate the • ^ that each time the suck strikes - P single drop of the preparaUon mil UPEA PEA 403 tlie tin ; a little practice will be necessary before this operation can be performed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. is used, replenish the pan and proceed as above directed, until you have as many pastilles as you may require. When cold and hard, remove them from the tins with your hand, and keep them in boxes in a dry place. You may, if you please, colour the pastilles, taking care to perfume them with a corresponding odour. Pastilles (Common).*—These are made in the same manner as the best sort, the difference consists in the materials (which are a quarter of a pound of powder to three quarters of a pound of sugar), and the perfumes are omitted. PASTILLAGES.*—Put two ounces of well-washed gum dragon into an earthen pan, with as much clear hot water as will cover it, lay a sheet of paper to keep out the dust, and let it stand twenty-four hours; then squeeze it through a coarse cloth into a marble mortar, and add to it as much starch and sugar (both in powder) as the gum water will contain ; pound these ingredients well, and strain them through a tammy into a pan, which keep covered with a damp cloth. This pastil- lage is used to form the ornamental parts of pastry and confectionary, such as tem- ples, baskets, &c., and may be tinged of the requisite shades, by mixing with it any of the colouring materials. PEACHES (Charlotte of').* — Take twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut them in halves, and scald them in a light sy- rup; then drain and cut each half into three pieces (lengthwise) of equal thick- ness ; put these into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and half the quantity of warm butter; fry them lightly, and having prepared your Charlotte in the usual way, pour in the peaches and finish it (see Charlotte). When in the dish for table, cover it completely with the syrup reduced to la nappe, and serve immedi- ately. Pea cues in a Compote. — Cut your peaches in half, take out the stones, peel them, then set them on the fire in a sugar pan, with a sufficient quantity of thick clarified sugar to cover them, and let them simmer in this gently till done ; then take them out in a basin, put in the kernels to the sugar, and lot it. boil until tolerably thick; put in the juice of two or three lemons, and pour the syrup over the peaches; serve them in a deep hot dish. Peach Cream.—The peaches must be prepared the same as for making jelly, but instead of running it through a sieve, rub the whole through a tammy, and make use of less isinglass; put it all at once in the mould, which must be set in ice. Peach Fritters.*—Take a dozen small ripe peaches, pare and cut them in halves, soak them in half a glass of brandy, and two spoonsful of sugar, on which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon ; in two hours’ time take them out and dip them, one by one, into some good batter, and fry of a nice colour. Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to caramel, with which glaze the fritters, strewing over each, as it is done, some gros sucre. Nectarine and apricot fritters are made in the same manner. 1 each Jelly.—Cut ten or twelve peaches in halves, take out the stones and peel them ; set a pint of smooth clarified su- gar, diluted with water, on the fire; when it has boiled and been skimmed, put in the peaches; the kernels should be broken and put in with them ; let them boil very gently for ten minutes, then take out four or five of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be in readiness for garnishing the jelly; let the remainder of the peaches boil for ten minutes longer ; while they are boiling take three lemons, cut off the rind, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve in a basin, pass the liquor of the peaches into it, and then the isinglass, running it through the sieve two or three times, in order to mix it well; fill the mould half full of jelly, and when set, put m the peaches and a little more jelly, and when tbat is set, fill up the mould. ’ The reason why the lemons are peeled before they are squeezed for this jelly is, that the oil m the rind would rather spoil the flavour of the jelly, than be any addition. 1 each Marmalade.*—Choose the finest peaches, but tbey must not be too ripe ; peel them, take out the stones, and put them into a China basin; clarify a suffi- cient quantity of sugar to allow the fruit'to float in the syrup; boil this sugar to hssd ■ let it cool a little, then pour it over your fruit, and leave it; the next day drain away the syrup, and boil it twelve or fifteen times; then pour it again over the fruit; repeat this process every twenty- four hours for six days; each time adding- a little sugar, and boiling it longer, until at the ast it reaches the degree grand perld, then add the fruit, and"boil them together a few minutes; as soon as they i!i)2PEA PEA 404 have boiled up three or four times, take the whole off the fire and put it into glass or China jais. During the six days that the fruit lays in the syrup, take care to place a piece of paper the size of the pan on the surface of the syrup, to prevent the fruit from rising above the syrup, and keep it all equally moist. . Plums are done exactly in the same Peaches with Pistachios (Gimblettes of)*—Take some puff' paste, give it lour turns, and roll it out into two thin layers, each thirteen inches square, one of which place on a baking tin (previously moist- ened!, spread over this a pot of peach marmalade, cover itwith the other layer, and then cut it with a circular paste cutter ol two inches diameter, take out the middle with a cutter of one inch diameter. Beat -up half the white of an egg, and a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and wash the gimblettes over with it; m the remaining glaze add the other hall white of egg, and throw into it a quarter of a pound of pis- tachios ; when these are completely covered with the glaze, stick them on the gimblettes, en couronne; when baked, re- place them in the oven to dry a minute or two, and serve either hot or cold. Peaches in a Timbale.—'These are done the same as -peaches in a compote, only that a small quantity of isinglass should be mixed in to turn them into a gentle !elly; serve them in a timbale. 2 Peach Tourte.*—Put a layer of tart paste on a flat dish, moisten the edge, round which put a band of paste about an inch and a half wide; put a piece ot buttered paper and a cover of common paste on, which prick in several places, Florez the band, bake and glaze it; when done, take out the paper and paste, and put in their place a compote of peaches, reduce the syrup, and the moment be- fore it is sent to table, glaze the fruit ""'pEaches (Vol-au-vcnt of) *-Take three quarters of a pound ot puff paste (of six urns! roll it out into a round piece of turns;, diameter, put this on a “7v"tta “v‘r of”"" very th 3 . 0;nt 0f a knife mark it 7„d“wh» lUciemly baked t^e out the middle, dry it a minute fwo sprinkle it all over with powder ..ml daze it. Take twelve ripe peaches', as near of a size as possible, cut them in halves, and boil them in a syrup made with six ounces of sugar; when done, drain, pare, and place those which are least coloured, en couronne, at the bottom of the vol-au-vent, arrange the re- mainder over, with the kernels introduced here and there ; reduce the syrup, and just before the dish is sent to table, pour it over the fruit. PEARS (Baked).—Take half a dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, and take out the cores ; put them into a pan with a little red wine, a few cloves, half a pound of sugar, and some water. Set them in a moderate oven till tender, then put them on a slow fire to stew gently ; add grated lemon peel, and more sugar if necessary. They will be sufficiently red. Peaks in Brandy*—Take some beurrS pears not too ripe, put them into a sauce- pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, set them on the fire, and let them simmer, but not boil, until the pears , will yield to the pressure of your finger ; then change them into cold water; pare them with the greatest care, so that not a single spot may remain; prick, and put them again on the fire in fresh water and the juice of a lemon; let them boil very fast. As soon as the pears are soft enough for the head of a pin to penetrate them easily, take them out carefully with a skimmer, and lay them in cold -water. In the mean time, having boiled your sugar to lisse, pour the boiling syrup on the pears, (previously drained, from the water), leave them. The next day drain off the syrup, boil it to la nappe, then put in the pears, give them a boil also; proceed m the same manner on the third day, which, draiii the fruit, and put it into bottles. Boil up the syrup a few more times, let it cool, and then pour on it some brandy (three-fourths of the quantity of the syrup) ; run the mixture through a bag, put it to the pears, and cork the bottles well. Peaks Candied—are done like apneots. Pears (Compote of).*—Take some good sized pears, cut them in halves, and put them into boiling water; when sott, change them into cold water, in whien squeeze a little lemon juice. Boil some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well Pom the water, and then put them into t svrun • boil together until the pears ar sufficiently done ; skim and pUce them m the compotier. A little Burgun and prepared cochineal will give the com pote a red colour.PEA PEA 405 Pears ( Compote of') d la Bonne Femme* —Choose your fruit carefully, take off the tops, and trim the tails, wash and drain them well; then put them into a skillet with sugar, cinnamon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, and some water. Set I them on a slow fire, taking care to skim them. When sufficiently done, they will look wrinkled. Ibid (Red).*—Peel your fruit, and put it into a well glazed pipkin, with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, sugar to the taste, and a little water; put in also a pewter spoon; cover the pipkin close, and set it on hot ashes. When done, the pears will he of a fine red colour. Pears (to compound).*-—Take a dozen large pears, coddle them ; when tender, take them out and lay them in cold water, pare and cut them in halves ; take out the cores, put them in syrup made thus : Two pounds and a half of sugar to three pints of water a little lemon peel pared very thin, boiled in them, and a little cochineal bruised and put into a muslin bag : cover them, boil them quick till they are tender and of a good colour; when cold, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons. Pear Cream.—Take a dozen of jargo- nels (or any other mellow pears), peel, core, and cut them in quarters, put them in the tammy, and mash them well with a wooden spoon : then put to them a little clarified sugar cold, the juice of three lemons, with isinglass as cool as it can be without settling ; then rub the whole through the tammy, and immediately set it in one large or several small moulds, with ice round them. Pears (Dried).—These are done in the same manner as apples. Pears Grilles.*—Put some fine baking pears on a fiercely heated stove, till the peel is well browned, then throw them into cold water ; clean them thoroughly, put them into a skillet with clarified sugar, cinnamon, and a little water; when suffi- ciently tender, place them in the compotier. Pear Ice.* lake any kind of pear you may prefer, let them he quite ripe, and having pared and cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little water, set. it on the fire ; when the fruit is quite soft, rub it through a seive ; to each pound of the pulp put three quarters of a pound of sugar, boiled to petit lisse, and the juice of two lemons ; mix them well, and freeze in the usual manner. (See Ice.) Pears (to keep).*—Choose the soundest pears, peel, and cut them into quarters, take out the pips, put the pieces into bottles, which place in the bain-marie. If the pears are intended for the dessert, once boiling is sufficient; hut if for co&king, they should boil up five or six times. Should the fruit thus bottled have fallen from the tree instead of having been gathered, they will require a quarter of an hour’s boiling. Pear Marmalade*—Take six pounds of small pears and four pounds of sugar ; put the pears into a saucepan with a little water, set it on the fire; when the fruit is soft, take them out, pare, quarter, and. core them; as you do this, throw each, piece into cold water, in another saucepan, and when all are done, set them on the fire. As soon as they are sufficiently soft, rub them through a sieve, and having in. the meantime clarified and boiled the sugar to petit lissd, pour the syrup to the pulp, set it on the fire, and stir them together until the marmalade is of the proper con- sistence ; then take it off, put it into pots, and when cold, tie them down. Pears Preserved.*—-Take care in mak- ing this preserve that the fruit he not too ripe; they are in a fit state as soon as the pips are black. Set the pears on the fire in a sufficient quantity of water to cover them ; take them off when quite soft, and throw them into cold water; pare them lightly, cut off the stalks, prick each with a pin sufficiently long to reach the core, and put them again into cold water, with a handful of alum; set them on the fire to boil until the pears are tender, then take them out, and put them into cold water for the third time. Clarify and boil some sugar to petit liss£, put some water to it, and when it boils, add the pears, cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; skim, and pour it into an earthen pan and leave it. The next day, drain the syrup from the pears, add a little more clarified sugar to it, and boil it again to petit lisse ; pour it over the fruit, and leave it as before; the next and two successive days, proceed in the same way, each time increasing the degree of boiling, until it reaches grand, perle; then add the pears, give the pre- serve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, then drain tho fruit, and put it by for use. Pears (Stewed).—Wash and prick some large stewing pears, and set them on the fire in a large stewing pan of water to scald; when scalded, take them out, andPEA PEA 406 put them on the fire in a pan with a suffi- cient quantity of thin clarified sugar to cover them, a stick of cinnamon, a little mace, and two or three cloves; let them stew gently till they begin to soften and look rather red, then put in a bottle of port wine, and let them continue stewing until perfectly done, and look very rich and red ; then put them in a basin or jar, with the liquor over them; they will he all the better for keeping four or five days. Pear Tart.—Pare your fruit carefully, cut them into quarters, and take out the cores; if large and green, boil them in a little water till soft; simmer them in some rich syrup, line a dish with puff paste, lay in the pears with the syrup, cover and hake it. PEAS (Boiled).—Set a large pan of spring water on the fire; when it boils, put in the peas with a handful of salt, and a stalk of mint; when done, drain them in a cullender, and toss them in a stewpan with a good hit of butter, a little salt and pepper ; if for the second course, he care- ful that they are the very youngest, and omit the pepper. Peas d la Bourgeoise*—Malee a light white roux, into which put your peas ; in a little while moisten them with a little boiling water, then add salt, pepper, four onions, a hunch of parsley and scallions, a lettuce chopped small, and reduce them ; when the peas are sufficiently done, putin the yolks of three eggs ; after which, take care that it does not boil. Serve them quite hot. Peas a. la Bourgeoise.—Cut two or three cabbage lettuces, or heads of endive, into squares, then fry three green onions in cla- rified butter, of a fine brown ; the lettuces being well washed and drained from the water, put them into the pan with the onions, and let them stew very gently till done, and then drain them on a sieve. Toss them together with the peas, and stew them the same as in the direction for peas stewed a la Fran false. Peas (Cullis of).—Boil some green peas in a little good stock with a hunch of par- sley, scallions, and savory, _ rub them through a sieve into a cullis ; if you wish it to ho very green, add a little spinach essence. Maigre Pens Cullis is mado in the sumo manner, only fish broth is used instead of the stock. Peas au Gras* — Take some fresh gathered peas, and having shelled, wash, and drain them well. Cut some streaky bacon into dice, which put into a stewp with a hunch of sweet herbs, set these on a gentle fire, and in half an hour add the peas, shaking the pan well; when the latter are about three parts done, moisten with veal gravy or consomme, and finish them. Serve with fried bread. Peas (to keep Green).—Shell and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give them two or three warms, dry and. bottle them. Peas a la Paysanne.—Prepare your peas as directed, a la Sefton; wash very clean some cabbage and cos-lettuces, a handful of parsley, and a few scallions; break them in pieces, and having drained, put them to the peas, and stew them over a slow fire, stirring frequently to prevent their burning j when sufficiently done, season with pepper and salt, and serve. Peas (Purge Potage of).*—Put about three pints of green peas into cold water, add to them a quarter of butter, which mix well with the peas by working them about with your hands, then, having drained them in a cullender, put the peas into a stewpan with a little parsley and a few scallions; set them on a moderate fire, stirring occa- sionally ; in half an hour’s time take them out, put them into a mortar, and pound them well; then rub them through a sieve, adding a little cold broth to enable them to pass through more easily ; make your puree very clear, heat it, and pour it on the bread about ten minutes before you serve it. Peas Pudding.*—Take a pint of good split peas, and having washed, soak them well in warm water: then tie. them loose in a cloth, put the pudding into a saucepan of hot water, and boil it until q uite soft. When done, beat it up with a little butter and salt, and yolks of two eggs; tie it up again tight and servo it with boiled pork or beef. J Peas in a Purge.—Proceed as directed for peas-soup, but let the puree be much thicker, and add a little more sugar and salt; this will serve to garnish a stewed leg of lamb, lamb or mutton cutlets, duck tewed, &c. , Peas (dry Purge «/).*— Having washed our peas thoroughly, put them into a aucepan with water, three carrots, three nions, two cloves, two heads of celery, a uarter of a pound of butter, and salt to ie taste ; having boiled them till the peas re suffieientlv done, take out the 0 l<?t egetables, and rub the peas * 11 "uj . . ieve. The purge should be rather thickPER PEA 407 than otherwise, as it may be made thinner by the potage which you add to it. Peas (Ragout of)' with Bacon *—Take half a pound of bacon, cut it into pieces, which put into a stewpan with a little butter; put a pint of young peas into a basin, stir some butter into them, and pour on a little water; leave the peas in this for about seven or eig'ht minutes, then i drain and set them on the lire ; in a few minutes, add a little broth, then bacon, parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper ; stew the whole over a gentle fire ; skim it well, and if too salt, add a little sugar. Peas a la Sefton.—Take three pints of young fresh gathered peas, and put them into a pan with two ounces of butter and plenty of cold water, work them well with i the butter till they adhere together, and having drained them thoroughly in a cul- lender, stew them gently with a bunch of parsley and scallions ; as soon as they be- come green, sprinkle a little flour over, give them a stir, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover them, and reduce it quickly over a large fire; dissolve a small lump of sugar, and merely a taste of salt, in a little water; add this to the peas. Peas Soup.*—Take the liquor in which a joint of salt beef, pork, or leg of mutton, has been boiled; put it into a large sauce- pan, with beef bones, a knuckle of ham, a carrot or two, a leek, a little celery seed tied in a bag, a pint of split peas ; let the whole simmer by the side of the fire four or five hours. When sufficiently done, rub the peas through a cullender, strain the liquor over them, season it to your taste, and serve with mint dried, and rubbed fine, toasted or fried bread cut into dice, and Cayenne pepper. Peas (Green) Soup.—Take young car- II rots, turnips, onions, celery, and cabbage lettuces, slice them, and put them into a stewpan with a little piece of butter, and some lean ham cut in pieces; stew them for a short time close covered ; then fill them up with stock sufficient for your soup, let it boil till the roots are quite soft, throAv in a few leaves of mint and the crust of a roll; pound them and put ready for tlie peas ; boil a quart of old peas as green as you can in water, strain thorn off and pound them; mix with the other ingre- dents and rub through a tammy, heat it, Sand season with salt, pepper, and sugar; throw in a few young boiled peas, and if i it has lost colour, restore it with spinach t greening. Peas (to Stew Green) —Put into a stew- pan a quart of peas, a lettuce and anonion, both sliced, a bit of butter, some pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew them very gently for one hour. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them; or a bit of flour and butter. Peas (Slewed) a la Franguise.—Boil some very young peas in plenty of spring water with a little salt in it; when nearly done drain off the water, and put them to stew with a bit of butter, a green onion, and a small bunch of parsley, a little sugar and salt; let these stew together for a few minutes, then add two or three spoonsful of consomm6 ; when they appear dry, add some green sauce, but take great care not to put too much, if intended for the second course, as there is not so much required as for an entree in the first course ; before serving, mix in a liaison of the yolk of one egg, with a little cream. PEPPER Cakes.—Boil a quarter of an ounce'of whole white pepper it in a gill of sack, for a quarter of an hour; then strain, and mix the liquor with as much fine su- gar as will make a paste; drop this on a tin plate, and let them dry. Pepper Pot.*—Take as much spinach as will fill a good-sized dish, put it in a saucepan without any water, set it on the fire, and let it boil; then drain off all the liquor, chop the spinach very fine, and re- turn it to the saucepan, with the water just drained from it, more water, onions, three or four potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut small, the bones of any cold roast meat, if you have them, and half a pound of bacon; put the whole on the fire, and when it has boiled for about an hour, put in a few suet dumplings ; leave it twenty or thirty minutes longer ; season it well with Cayenne, and serve. Pepper Sauce.—Take an onion or two, a couple of carrots, a parsnip, half a par- sley root Call cut in slices), two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, two cloves, and a little butter; set them on the fire, and when they take colour, add some cullis, half a glassjof vinegar and broth, salt, and coarse pepper; reduce to a proper consistence, skim and strain it. PERCH.—Perch are not esteemed so much as carp and tench; but they are a most delicate fish ; their freshness may be ascertained by the liveliness of their e3res, and the stiffness of their fins. Perch do not preserve so good a flavour when stowed, as when dressed in any other way.per PER 408 Perch au Beurre.*—Having thoroughly cleansed and taken out the gills, put your perch into a stewpan, with a sliced onion, a carrot, a bay leaf, paisley, salt, and a little water. When done, drain them; take off the scales and skins carefully; place the fins at equal distances in the bodies, and serve them covered with a but- ter sauce. Perch (Boiled).—Put them into cold wa- ter, and let them boil carefully; serve with melted butter and soy. Perch ( Boiled).—Set the perch on in cold spring water, with plenty of salt; as soon as they boil, slum them well, and place them aside to simmer till done ; and serve them either with anchovy sauce, or with melted butter and soy. Perch in Court Bouillon .* — Having cleaned your perch and rejected the gills, wash them well in vinegar, and then put them into a saucepan, with some butter, sweet herbs, small white onions, and white wine; stew them till done; drain, and serve them dry, on a napkin folded, in a dish. Perch (Fillets of) fried in a Marinade. —Scale and cut off the fillets of six perch without any bone, and let them soak for ten hours in a marinade, half vinegar, half water, carrots, onions, a bay leaf, some peppercorns, salt, and a clove of garlic; a few minutes before you wish to serve them, take them out of the marinade, shake them in flour, and fry them quick in clear lard; when free from fat, place them on a dish, with good strong butter sauce under them, into which put a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; when very hot, pour it between the fish. Perch a la Gordiane.*—Scale, empty, and clean as many perch as you may re- quire, and soak them for five minutes in melted butter, with sweet herbs shred, salt, pepper, and pounded coriander; put the fish (with this marinade) into a jar, cover it very close, and set it in hot ashes; when you think the perch are about half done, add some good veal gravy, cover it as closely as before, and let it remain till the fish are done. Perch a, la Hollandaise. •—Thoroughly elean and wash the perch, then set them on the fire in half milk, half water, some salt, and a bit of butter ; simmer them gen- tly over a slow fire, and when done, drain off the liquor, lay them on a dish, with a sauce a la Hollandaise over them. Perch d la Polonaise.* — Clean three perch well, take out the gills and roes, in the place of which put carp roes; tie up their heads, and stew them in a light salt and water, with parsley roots and leaves, bay leaf, and lemon peel. When nearly done, take off the scales and skins; dip the fish in a Ste. Menehould sauce, and bread them; beat up the yolks of three eggs in a little melted butter, salt and pepper; dip the perch in this, and bread them a second time; broil them slowly, and serve with a tomata sauce. Perch au Restaurant.*■—Scale and clean your fish, and if large, soak them in hot brine, but if they are small, that is not necessary. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and keep stirring till it melts, then add some veal gravy or consommd, salt, pepper, vinegar, and your fish; stew gently till sufficiently done. Serve with the sauce poured over. Perch a la Vasse Fiche*—Take three or four perch, gut and clean them well; take out the gills and roes, and put some carp roes in their place, tying up the heads; put them into water slightly salted, with sliced carrots, parsley roots and leaves ; give them one boil only; then take out the fish, and mix with the sauce some well reduced veloute ; put the perch in again, give them another boil, and dish them, with the same sauce poured over. Perch au Water Suchet* — Cut some parsley roots into small pieces, which put in a sufficient quantity of water to boil what perch you may have ; add a bunch of parsley and some salt; when the roots are quite done, put in the perch (well scaled and cleaned) for ten minutes. In the mean time scald some parsley leaves in salt and water ; then drain the perch, place them in a tureen, with the parsley roots and leaves ; strain the liquor over it, and serve. Slices of bread and butter should be sent to table to eat with it. Perch with Iliac.*—Having scaled and taken out the gills, put the perch into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and white wine, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two cloves, and some salt. When done, take out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dregs of which mix with some butter and a little flour ; beat these up, set them on the fire, stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy but- ter. Drain the perch well, and dish them with the above sauce. PERL1NGO.*—Take a pound and s half of sifted flour, and haring placed it_en your slab, make a hole in the middle ot it.PER PER 409 into which put three quarters of a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of fresh but- ter, the rind of two lemons grated, and ten eggs; knead all these ingredients together well, until you have a pretty firm paste ; if it should be too thin, add a handful more flour. Then cut the paste into small pieces, each of which roll in the palms of your hands, till they are the length and thickness of your finger ; take a round stick (about half the diameter of your paste), press this down on each of the pieces, so that they may be their original thickness on one side, and thin on the other ; when all are thus pressed, form them into little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the thin end uppermost), lay them on white paper, and bake them in a moderate oven; in the meanwhile, make some white sugar var- nish or icing, and when the perlingos are sufficiently done, dip them carefully in the varnish, one by one ; then replace them in the oven, a minute or two, to dry. PEROGEE Padogees.*•—Take a piece of beef, mutton or lamb, that is tender, the same quantity of beef-suet, shred sepa- rately very fine, then mis them altogether, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a little shalot; when seasoned, mix it with a little good broth or gravy ; make a paste as follows : Melt two ounces of fresh butter in half a pint of warm milk; then put in one egg, well beaten, adding flour to it by degrees, till it is very stiff, and no eyes in it; mould it well, roll it out very thin, cut it out with a very small basin, lay the meat on one side, turn the other over as a puff, close it with some egg, yolk and white beaten together, and fry in good beef-dripping. PERRY.— Perry is a pleasant and wholesome liquor, made from the juice of pears, by means of fermentation, somewhat in the same manner as cyder is made from apples. (See Cyder.) The best pears for perry, or at least the sorts which have been hitherto thought the fittest for making this liquor, are so exces- sively tart and harsh, as to be totally unfit for any other purpose. The Bosbury pear, the Bearland or Barland pear, are the most esteemed in Worcestershire, and the squash pear, as it is called, in Gloucester- i shire ; the liquor made from this fruit is 1 pale, sweet, yet remarkably fine, and of a ! strong body, and held in very great esti- ! mation. In making of perry, the pears should be ground and pressed, exactly in the same manner as those of apples in tho making of cyder (see Cyder) ; but the reduced pulp should not be allowed to remain any length of time without being pressed. In Here- fordshire, or the counties in its vicinity, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to correct the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another. It is, however, thought more easy to find the required portion of sugar and astringency, as well as flavour, in three or four varities than in one; therefore, it is supposed, a judicious mixture of fruits affords a pros- pect of great benefit. In grinding, the pulp and rind of the pear, as in the apple, should be perfectly reduced, and though no benefit is said to be derived from the reduced pulp remain- ing some hours unpressed, yet there is no doubt but, where all other circumstances are the same, that portion of liquor will, for the most part, be found the best, which has remained the longest under the power of the mill-stone. The juices of the pear and the apple are constituted of the same component parts, but the proportions are different. In the juice of the pear, the tanning principle is predominant, with a less portion of sugar, mucilage, and tinging matter. Perry requires nearly the same sort of management, during the process of fermen- tation, as cyder; but it does not afford the same indications by which the proper period of racking it off may be ascertained. The thick scum that collects on the sur- face of cyder, seldom appears on the juice of the. pear; and, during the time of the suspension of its fermentation, the exces- sive brightness of the former liquor is rarely seen in the latter; but, where the fruit has been regularly ripe, its produce will generally become moderately clear and quiet in a few days after it is made, und it should then be drawn off from its grosser lees. To prevent an excess of fermentation, the same means are used as in making cyder, and the liquor is rendered perfectly bright by isinglass. For this purpose tho isinglass should be reduced to small fragments, by pounding in a mortar, and afterwards being steeped twelve or fourteen hours in a quantity of liquor, sufficient to produce its greatest degree of expansion. In this state it must be'mixed with a few gallons of the liquor, and stirred till it is diffused and suspended in it; and it is then poured into the cask, and incor- porated with the whole by continued agi- tation for two or three hours. This process J410 PET PET should be repeated till tlie required de- gree of brightness is obtained, the liquor being each time drawn off, on the second or third day, from its precipitated lees. About an ounce and a half, or two ounces, of isinglass, are generally put into a cask of a hundred and ten gallons, at once; were its mode of action purely mechani- cal, there could be no objection to a larger quantity; but it has also a chemical action on the liquor. It combines with, and car- ries down, the tanning principle, and hence, during the process of fining, the liquor is deprived of a large portion of its astringency. This substance is most rea- dily diffused, in liquors, by boiling ; but, by this it is dissolved, and converted into glue, and its organization, on which alone its powers of fining depend, is totally de- stroyed . But, when perry can be made suffi- ciently bright without it, it is better not to use tire isinglass; as the liquor is ren- dered extremely agreeable to the eye by it, but is thought to become more thin and acid by its action. In the after-management of perry, the method is the same as that of cyder, but it does not bear situations where it is exposed to much change of temperature so well, and its future merit cannot be so well judged of by its present state. In the bottle it almost always retains its good qualities,' and in that situation it is best to be put, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first and succeed- ing summer. Perry Vinegar, as made in Holland * •—The pears which fall from the trees are picked up, cut into slices, and put into casks; water is poured over them, and they are left exposed to the sun, and yeast is added to hasten the fermentation. When the vinegar is made, strain, aud let it rest some days; after which, a deposit is formed; draw off the vinegar carefully, and bottle it. PERSIC A.*—Cut about one hundred peach leaves, put them into a wide- mouthed bottle, pour on them a quart of the best brandy, cork it close; in three weeks strain it off, and put to it an equal quantity of capillaire. It is good in cus- tards, puddings, and as a liqueur. Petit Choux, or Royal Paste.— (Sea Paste Royal), aud having made it ns there directed, when it is cold, form the choux, about half the size of a walnut, on a baking sheet, by dropping it off a spoon in com- pact drops a little distance from each other; brush them over with egg and a little milk ; bake in a moderate oven, and do not let in the air while they are rising; some- times glaze them with powder sugar; de- tach them from the baking tin with a knife; make an incision in them, and introduce whatever sweetmeats you think proper. With this paste a great variety of dishes may be made according to fancy. Petits Putts (Cases of).—Having made a sufficient quantity of puff paste, and as- certained, by trying it, that it is rolled enough and not too much; roll it out to about the thickness of one-fifth of an inch, dip a cutter (round or oval, plain or fluted), into boiling water in order to de- tach the paste immediately from the cut- ter, and then proceed to cut out as many pieces as wanted, taking care between each one to dip the cutter in water; place them an inch apart; stamp them even on the top with a cutter, about three sizes less than the former one; lightly dorez and bake them in a brisk oven, of a clear light brown colour; when done, gently with a skewer raise the piece marked out with the smaller cutter, take all the inside out; put them on paper and keep hot till dinner time; instead of using the small pieces taken from the tops, you mat' have some pieces cut out from the puff paste much thinner than the pates, with a larger cutter than you marked the tops with; dorez and bake them, and slightly cut the bottoms off; when your pates are filled place these tops on. These cases will do for a great variety of things. Petits Patds (Hot).*—Roll out about a pound of puff paste to a proper thick- ness, which cut into pieces, with a plain round paste cutter, two inches in diame- ter; place half the number of these pieces on a baking tin (slightly wetted), about half an inch apart; moisten each ot them a little, and having laid a small bit of godi- veau on every one, cover them with the remainder of the paste, press the edges together, dorez, and bake them in a brisk oven, of a clear brown. Petit Gateaux d la Heine.—Proceed in the same manner to make the paste as tor petit choux, except that you must substitute of milk and cream equal quantities instead ot water, also adding a glass of brandy ant nutmeg; line some tart pans with putt paste, puta little jam in each, and over t la a good spoonful of the above paste; w en baked enough, powder some sugar oi er them, glaze with a salamander, and serve very hot. Yon may, if you like, onut t e jam.411 PHE PHE PETTITOES.—Boil the feet, the liver, and the heart, of a sucking pig, in a little water, very gently, then split the feet, and cut the meat very small, and simmer it with a little of the water till the feet are perfectly tender; thicken with a hit of but- ter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper and salt; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, put the feet on the mince. PHEASANTS.—The spur of a young- cock pheasant, should be short and round; when they are long and sharp, the bird is old. A cock pheasant is a fine flavoured bird, but the hen is accounted the best. When the bird is stale, if the vent is rubbed by the finger, the skin peels off. The same rules may be observed for black- cocks. Pheasant a, I’Angoumoise*—Toss up some truffles in a little butter, season them to the taste; then take them from the fire, and when cold, add to them five-and- twenty or thirty roasted and peeled chest- nuts ; stuff a pheasant, larded with truf- fles, with these, and then wrap it in thin slices of veal or mutton, over which lay two rashers of bacon; tie it up, and put it in a pan on more bacon; pour a sufii- 1 cient quantity of Malaga, or any other Spanish wine, to cover it, and set it in the oven ; when done, untie it; take off all the fat, add some more truffles, and thicken the sauce with roasted chestnuts, pounded quite dry. Pheasant (Boudins of).*—Take all the meat from a cold roasted pheasant (with- out any of the skin or sinews), and mince it very small; break the bones to pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of water; draw out the essence of them over the fire; soak some bread in 1 essence; boil six onions in broth, season them with salt, pepper, cloves, nut- meg, a little basil, and parsley; when done, mince, and mix them with the pheasant and bread; put the whole into a mortar, and pound it; dilute with cream; add the i yolks of six eggs, and three quarters of a | pound of beef, cut into dice, salt and spices; put the preparation into skins, as t usual. (See Black Puddings). [ Pheasant Boiulin a la Richelieu* Take all the meat of a pheasant, pound, and rub it through a quenelle sieve; in ( ^e meantime, roast a dozen large pola- 'toes, pare them very clean, and, having pounded them also, take as much of them as you have pheasant, and pound toge- ther; add an equal portion of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg and other spices ; pound the whole, putting in five eggs, one at a time; when all are in, take the farce from the mortar, sprinkle the end of the table with flour, lay the farce on it, and roll it up in the form of thick sausages; poach these, and drain them; when cold, bread them, dip them in eg-gs heated with a little melted butter and salt; broil, and serve them with a fume made of the remnants. Pheasant with Cabbages* — Take a trussed pheasant, lard the breast and legs with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and pounded spice; cover it with bacon, line a stewpan with hacon also, and put in the pheasant, with a moderate sized servelas, foui- carrots, four onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, some slices of veal, and a pound of streaked bacon ; blanch the cab- bages, tie them up, that they may not lose their shape, and put them to the pheasant, with stock and pepper; let them simmer for two hours; then drain the cabbages, place the pheasant in the centre of a dish, the other articles round, and serve with a fumet of game. Pheasant with Celery.—Prepare a phea- sant the same as a fowl is prepared for boiling; then stew it in any kind of good braize till it is well done; have ready six fine heads of celery, cut into rounds about the size of a shilling, blanch them for a few minutes, drain them on a sieve, and then put them to stew, till nearly dry, in good stock; have ready some good brown sauce, with a bit of butter mixed in it; put the celery to this, add one squeeze of lemon juice, stir it gently, and pour the whole over the pheasant, and serve it to table hot. Pheasant (Fillets of) d la Chevalier* Take eight fillets, put aside the small ones (which must be fried lightly, to lay in the centre of the dish), trim and lard the others; put slices of bacon and veal, the remainder of the pheasants, two car- rots, four onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, into a saucepan; lay in the fillets nicely; pour over them one glass of white wine, two of consomme, a little salt, and cover the whole with a buttered paper; set the pan on the fire, and as soon as it boils, lesson the fire beneath, and cover the lid with hot coals ; in about an hour take out the fillets, drain, and glaze them. Strain and reduce the liquor, add three ladies- ful of espagnole; when the sauce is of412 PHE PHE the right consistence, strain it again into a dish, and serve the fillets in it, laid on fried bread. Pheasant (Croquettes of).*—Take the white meat from three pheasants (roast- ed), remove all the skin and nerves, and cut the meat into dice; put a ladleful of bechamel into a saucepan, reduce it to half, then add to it two ounces of fresh butter, which must dissolve in the sauce without being put on the fire; strain it over the minced pheasant, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole together well, and when cold, lay it in heaps nearly as big as an egg; give them what shape you please, roll them in bread crumbs, after which soak them a minute in eggs, beaten with salt and pepper; bread them a second time, and fry the croquettes in the usual way. Pheasant (to dress).—A pheasant may be done in almost eveiy manner that a fowl is dressed, besides being made into petits putes, croquettes, in an aspic jelly, or Italian salad. Pheasant a la d’Estaing.*—Lard a good sized pheasant, give it a few turns in some melted butter, then tie slices of bacon round, and roast it. In the mean- time, take the roes of carp and other fish, with which make a matelote; add to it some balls of godiveau, truffles, morels, sweet herbs, small onions, veal sweet- breads, and any other articles you may choose, all dressed in veal gravy; when the pheasant is done, take off the bacon, put it into a dish, and pour the above ra- got'it over it. Pheasant a VEtouffade*—Your phea- sant being properly prepared and trussed, rub some bacon with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon; lard the breast and legs with this, and tie up the bird in slices of bacon, line a stewpan with more slices, put the pheasant on them, and pour over some police, and equal quantities of white wine and stock; simmer it for two hours; then drain, untie, and serve it over an essence of game. Pheasant Farce a. V Espagnole.-—Mako a veal forcemeat, and put part of it into the crop of the pheasant (it being prepared for stewing), and make tlio remainder into long rolls; blanch and stew them in the samo manner as directed for pigeons, with the same sauce. Pheasants in Fillets.—Cut out the fil- lets of the breast, the same as from a fowl, lay them on a table, and with a large knife cut them into three thin slices, then lay them carefully in some clarified butter. When the whole is done, sprinkle a little salt over them; do them for a minute over a quick fire (turning them on each side), but be careful that they are not brown; drain them from the butter, and dish them, in the form of a star, and pour over them some butter sauce, very hot, with half a lemon squeezed into it, Pheasant en Galantine.*—Choose a large pheasant for this purpose ; having picked it, &c. split it down the back bone, and spread it open on a cloth, cover it entirely with a game farce; cut some calf s udder, tongue a l’tear late, and truffles, in lardons, roll these well in a mixture of salt, pepper, pounded spice, and aromatic herbs; place these lardons at equal dis- tances, and alternately on the farce; then some fillets of rabbit, cover the whole with the farce, and proceed thus until the phea- sant be filled ; then roll it up, form it as near as possible in its original shape, lay slices of bacon round, and wrap it in a new cloth ; sew it over, and tie the ends tight; put some onions, carrots, two cloves, two bay leaves, garlic, a quarter of a pound of ham, two knuckles of veal, and the bones of the pheasant, or any other game ; place the bird on this, cover it with slices of bacon, pour in some stock, and a bottle of white wine (there should be a sufficient quantity of liquid to cover the pheasant) ; put a buttered paper over the whole, cover the pan close, and set it on a brisk fire, with hot ashes on the lid, and leave it for three hours ; then remove it from the fire, let it remain another hour in the braising- pan, after which take it out, press it lightly to flatten the breast as much as possible. Strain the liquor, and set it on the fir® again; skim it well, and when it is on th® point of boiling, add a glass of white wine; skim it again, and reduce it a fourth ; beat four eggs in some cold water, take the jelly from the fire, and put the eggs in, a little at a time ; stir constantly till the whole becomes as white as milk; add the juice of two lemons, and set it on the side ofthe stove to clarify; when reduced to about half its original quantity, strain it through a napkin, and let it cool; in the meantime, unwrap the pheasant, clear away all the fat, glaze, and having placed it on a napkin, garnish it with the jelly. . # Pheasant (Galantineof) a la rarisiennc. —Soak and blanch a fine fat liver, cut it m halves, each of which divide into fourPHE 413 PHE slices; pound two of these, a partridge honed, and an equal quantity of fat bacon ; season the whole highly, add the yolks of two eggs, and sweet herbs (the latter dressed in a little butter); when these in- gredients are thoroughly pounded, rub the farce through a quenelle sieve. Take a plump pheasant that has hung some days, lay it open on a napkin, and season it high, spread half the farce over it; on this put three of the slices of liver, and between each, some truffles, cut in halves ; strew over a proper quantity of spiced salt; then half the remaining farce, the liver, truffles, and spice, as before; cover the whole with the rest of the farce, and sew up the bird in its original form, and cook the galantine in the usual way. (See Galantine of Par- tridges'). The pheasant, however, requires to be three hours on the fire. Pheasant (Gratin of). — Mince ex- tremely fine the breast of a pheasant that has been roasted, and put it in some good bcchamelle sauce; mix it well up, and add a little lemon juice ; then pour it into a dish, shake over it a few bread crumbs, sprinkle it with clarified butter, and then with more bread crumbs, and, just before it is wanted, colour it with the salamander. Pheasant, a I’ltalienne.—Well stew a couple of small pheasants with a farce in their crops; place them carefully on a dish, pour over the whole an Italienne sauce, and send them to table. Pheasant with Olives *—Stuff a phea- sant with a farce, composed of fat livers, truffles, scallions (all minced), streaked bacon pounded, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, mixed together, with one or two yolks of eggs ; wrap the bird in a slice of bacon, and roast it. When done, serve it with olives, stewed in rich veal gravy, poured round. Pheasant a la Perigueux.* — Having picked and singed a pheasant, take out the entrails, &c., through the crop; take a pound and half of truffles, clean and pick them, cut them into pieces about the size of a nut, mince the trimmings very small ; puthalf a pound of grated bacon, a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of olive oil, in a saucepan ; set them on the fire, and when hot, put in the cut truffles, give them a few turns, and then add alittle 5 salt, pepper, and spices; in about five f minutes, throw in the minced trimmings t for a minute or two; then take off the pan, ' an(1 when cold, fill your pheasant with !! tlus> through the crop; lay a very thin 11 piece of bacon on the aperture, draw the skin over, truss the bird, and tie it, so that the truffles cannot escape, and put it be- tween slices of bacon into a saucepan, pour some poel£e on it without the lemon juice, cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and let it simmer for an hour ; then drain and untie it carefully, and place it on a dish. Mince two truffles, give them a few turns in some butter; add three ladiesful of espagnole, the same offumet of game, reduce the sauce to half, strain, and pour it on the bird. Pheasant (Hot raised Pie of).*—Take a couple of pheasants that have hung for some days, and when picked aud singed, cut them up, and give them a few turns in herbs; in the meantime make a raised crust, about seven inches in diameter, and four in height, but smaller in the middle than at top or bottom ; on the bottom and sides of this spread some good godiveau, or fine farce, with a couple of truffles minced small, lay the legs and backs of the phea- sants on this, then four or five truffles, each cut in half, then place the fillets and breasts, more truffles, and so on, till the birds are in ; pour over them the herbs in which they were cooked ; cover the whole with two bay leaves, and some slices of bacon ; lay a paste on the top, ornament the exterior of the pie according to your fancy, dorez, and put it into a brisk oven; a3 soon as the top of the pie is nicely co- loured, cut it off carefully, and place in its stead four pieces of paper, at least nine inches in diameter ; let the pie remain in the oven for an hour and a half; drain off the fat, and pour in an espagnole with some minced truffles, glaze the crust, and send it to table as soon as possible after it is taken out of the oven. Pheasant (Standing Pie of)*— Bone three fine pheasants which have hung for some days, lard them with small lardons ; then lay them open on the table, season with spiced salt, put in each two spoonsful of farce, and a few truffles; then sew up each in the form of a ball. Take a stew- pan, the size you intend to have your pie, line it completely with slices of ham and bacon, on which lay the pheasants, and a noix of veal, tied up that the form may ho preserved; add to these, a sufficient quan- tity of spiced salt, the bones of the phea- sants, some cuttings of veal, and truffles, four onions, stuck with three cloves, two carrots, a large bunch of parsley and scal- lions, bay leaf, basil, thyme, a glass of Spanish wine, two ladiesful of good con- somme, and four of other broth shimmings •414 PHE PIIE take care tliat jour meat is covered with the liquor ; put a buttered paper over the whole, and set it on the fire ; when it has boiled a few minutes, take it off, and put the saucepan on the stove with fire on the lid, and leave it for an hour, boiling constantly. When quite cold, take out each article, add the ham and bacon to a farce, made as di- rected for Partridge standing-pie chaud- froid. Raise your crust as usual, and put into it a quarter of the farce, make it smooth, and having untied the veal, lay that in the pie, strew a little spiced salt over, a third of the remaining farce, and four truffles, each cut in two; then take the thread from the pheasants, trim them a little that they may lay in the pie with- out injuring the shape ; put a pinch of spiced salt, and some truffles ; cover them with the rest of the farce, in which put more truffles, cut in halves, then add the butter, hay leaves, &c., and finish as di- rected in the above mentioned receipt. Three hours and a half are sufficient to bake this pie; when taken out of the oven, pour in the consommS, previously strained through a cloth, and close the hole with a piece of paste. Pheasant (to rcast').—Take out the en- trails, and singe the pheasant over the stove, then roll a bit of butter in pepper and salt, and put it into the inside of the bird ; truss it neatly with the head turned on one side, keeping the breast as full as possible; over which should be laid slices of fat bacon tied on with packthread ; be- fore it is put on the spit, break the back- bone, that it may lay the better on the dish. A good sized pheasant will take half an hour; when nearly done, take away the bacon, brown the pheasant well; sprinkle it with flour and salt, and froth it with butter ; serve it with water cresses, a good gravy under it, and brend sauce in a boat. Pheasant (Salmis of).*—Take two cold roasted pheasants, cut them up, trim the pieces properly, take off all the skin, and put the limbs into a stewpan. Put the remains of the pheasants into another saucepan, with a glass of white wine, four shalots, a little Seville orange peel, half a clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, four spoons- ful of espagvole tvavaillce, a bit of glaze, and a spoonful of consomme; reduce these, and then strain the sauce over the phea- sant, make it hot in the bain-marie, but do not let it boil ; lay them in a dish, the smallest pieces first, and the more con- siderable ones round, intermixed with fried bread ; squeeze the juice of a Seville orange into the sauce, which pour over the bird. Pheasant with Saur-Kraut *—Take a large pheasant, and having picked and singed, truss it like a chicken ; season the inside with parsley, scallions, salt, pepper, I and spices, and lard it; take a sufficient i quantity of saur-kraut to fill a good sized dish, put it into a saucepan, with a piece I of bacon, and a servelas, and some pot j skimmings, set it on a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour, then take out the ba- con and servelas, put in the pheasant, and leave it an hour and a half; when done, take it out, put it on a dish, drain the saur- kraut, and lay it round the bird; remove the skin, and cut the servelas into slices, which, with the bacon also sliced, place round the whole. Pheasant (Souffli of).*—This dish is prepared in the same manner as the soufjlS of partridge. Pheasant with Truffles.—Take a fine large pheasant, and prepare it the same as a fowl for boiling, with slices of fat bacon on the breasts; and put into the inside four or five whole truffles, and some chopped, with parsley and thyme ; then put it to roast till it is well done, and of a fine brown, colour, then dish it up, and garnish it with a good brown sauce, with truffles and mushrooms. Pheasant to Truss.— Let it be well picked and singed, then cut a slit in the back of the neck, and carefully take the crop out witliout breaking it; then cut off the vent, and draw out the inside, after this, well wipe the inside, and then put in a little pepper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter. Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the bird, by first cutting off the pinion at the first joint, so that the feathers need not be picked off tliat part; break the back bone, and truss it in the same manner as a fowl, by pressing the legs close to the apron, then turn the bird on the breast, and run a skewer through the end of the pinion, the leg, the body, and the leg and pinion on the other side, with the head fixed on the end of the skewer, and over the breast lay a slice of fat j bacon, and tie it on with packthread. It for boiling or stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for boiling. Pheasants a la Tnrque-—Prepare two fine young pheasants, the same as chickens are prepared for stewing, with slices ot fat bacon laid over the breasts, t icn e them stew very gently in good braise, i they are done ; in the meantime havePIE PIIE 415 some rice well stewed in good stock, with a small quantity of the fat, a little salt, and a bit of lean bam ; when well stewed, so that no liquid remains, lay it neatly in the dish, and the pheasants upon it, and, when you serve, pour over the whole a good bechamelle sauce. Pheasant (Fillets of) Bigarree*—Cut six fillets from three young pheasants, take six smaller ones, remove the skin from the former, beat them with the handle of the knife, and trim them, and having dissolved some butter in a tossing pan, put three of them in it, and bread the three others, sea- son with salt and pepper; then lard three of the small fillets as usual, and three with truffles, lay them on a baking pan with a little glaze and melted butter, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. Then take the legs of three cold roast pheasants, and having removed the skin, sinews, and bones, mince the meat very fine, and put it into a covered saucepan ; make a fume of the remainder of the pheasant; when done, strain, and reduce it, add three spoonsful of espagnole travaillie, and re- duce the whole to a demi-glaze; all your materials being thus prepared, fry three fillets lightly, and broil those which are breaded ; both sides being nicely done, dish them en couronne, with tongue a Vicariate, cut in hearts; put the mince, some chopped truffles, and a piece of butter into the sauce, make it quite hot, (without boiling}, and pour it into the centre of the couronne; fry the small fillets lightly, and place them over the mince, also en couronne, and serve. Pheasant (Fillets of) a la Ste. Mini- hould.*—Having seasoned your fillets with salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, and then in bread crumbs; take care that they are well covered with the latter, broil them slowly, and serve with an Italienne, or tomata sauce. Pheasant (Fillets of) with Truffles.*— Having larded and dressed the filiets a la chevalier (see that article), take the nerve from the small fillets, make half a dozen incisions m each, into which put a piece of truffle, having cut some in thin round slices, and divided them again into halves • all the small fillets being'thus garnished! 5 form them into semi-circles, and lay them! with a little salt and pepper, between two I slices of bacon, set them on a stove and • fry them lightly; drain your large fillets, 1; glaze, and place them on a dish over a sauti of truffles ; lay the small fillets in the D centre, and serve. Pheasant (Fillets f) Sautes* — Take eight fillets, trim and put them into a fry- ing pan with a little salt and pepper, put the small fillets in also; pour over them three quarters of a pound of melted butter; set the pan on a brisk fire, and do them on both sides ; two or three minutes is suffi- cient to do them. Dish them alternately with fried bread, en couronne, the small fillets in the centre; serve with espagnole mixed with a fumet of game. Pheasant Legs en Bullotine.* — Take as many pheasant legs as you may want, cut as much skin with them as you possi- bly can; bone them completely, lay them on a cloth, season them with salt, pepper, and spices ; spread over each a little of the same kind of farce as you use for pheasant Galantine, draw the skin over, and sew them up ; place them in a stewpan between slices of bacon, with some good stock, half a bottle of white wine, a carrot, an onion, olie clove, a bay leaf, garlic, salt, and pep- per ; set the pan on the fire for about as hour; then take out the legs, lay them between two dishes, with a weight over; when cold, trim and stick seven or eight pieces of truffles in the upper side of each, heat them in a demi-glace, and dish them, en couronne, with a. puree of mushrooms in the middle. Pheasant Legs with Puree of Lentils.* Cut the legs from the birds with as much of the skin as you can ; take out the bones, in the place of which put in a little farce made of bacon pounded, and mixed with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; draw the skin over, and sew it up ; put the hws into a stewpan between slices of bacon • add two carrots, four sliced onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, some slices of veal, and a ladleful of stock; simmer them for an liour and a half; then drain them, take oft the thread, dish them, alternately with fried bread en couronne, with a puree of lentils in the centre. I 1CKLE (for Tongues).*—To four gal- lons of water, add two pounds and a half of treacle, eight pounds of salt, two oun- ces of saltpetre ; boil it, and skim it until clear, sprinkle salt over the tongue, and let it stand two days, wipe it clean before you put it into the pickle, which must be quite cold ; boil the pickle every two or threo months, adding two or three handsful of salt, skimming it well. Half the quantity is sufficient for two tongues. PIE ( Anglo-Franfais).*—Take a deep dish, line the edge with puff-paste like aPIE 416 PIE common pie; stew a quarter of a pound of rice with some sugar until quite soft and sweet; take a pound of ripe juicy cherries; which pick and roll in a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and lay about a quarter of them at the bottom of the dish ; cover these with a fourth part of the rice, then the cherries again, and so on till your materials are used, taking care to keep the pie high in the middle; cover it with a layer of puff paste, which wash over lightly with some white of egg, and strew a little powder sugar over; put it in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter; then take it out, mask the crust with apricote mar- malade, and a few macaroons crushed. Serve it either hot or cold. Pie (Raised) to be served Hot.—Make a stiff paste, as directed for Raised Pies, which mix with warm water; when tho- roughly well mixed and blended together, roll it out tolerably thin ; cut a piece out for the bottom, and one for the sides, ac- cording to the shape of the dish, egg the edges of the parts you intend to join, and press them well together, so that the join- ing may not he perceptible ; shape it, gar- nish it with leaves or festoons, according to your own taste, fill it nearly to the top with bran, egg it, and let it be baked in a moderate oven ; when done of a fine light colour turn out the bran, and set it ready for what you intend to put in, which may be either cutlets of mutton stewed with vegetables, partridges farced with a brown sauce, chicken cut up with a ragout in a brown sauce, stewed carp, or eels, &c. Pie ( Hot Raised) Anglo-Franfais.*— Take the fillets from four loins of mutton, trim and cut them into scollops, wliicli season well with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; dissolve slowly three quarters of a pound of butter, and the instant it becomes liquid put into it two spoonsful of parsley, four of mushrooms, the same of truffles (all shred fine), and a shalot blanched and shred also. Make a raised crust of whatever form and size you please, and having soaked the fillets in the butter and herbs, lay them on the pie, eji couronue,* fill up the centre with mushrooms, minced truffles, artichoke bottoms, veal or lamb sweetbreads; pour the remainder of the butter and herbs over; cover them with two bay leafs, slices of bacon, and the lid of the pie; decorato the walls or sides tastefully, dorez and set it in a brisk oven ; when you find the top is sufficiently coloured, cut it off and lay in its place three or four sheets of paper, and replace the pie in the oven ; an hour and a half is the time it will re- quire to bake properly; as soon as it is done, take out the bay leaves and bacon, and pour in a demi-glaze of mutton mixed with an essence of truffles and mushrooms and the juice of a lemon; glaze the crust, and serve it quite hot. Pie (Hot Raised) a la Financiered— Make a raised crust of any form you may think proper; line the inside with thin slices of bacon, and fill up with beef suet chopped small; decorate the exterior of the pie according to your fancy, dorez and put it into a brisk oven for an hour ; then take it out, and when it is a little cooled, take out all the contents, half fill it with a fowl or game quenelle, and finish it with a ragout of lamb sweetbreads, cock’s combs, and kidneys, mushrooms, truffles, arti- choke bottoms, six Cray fish, and as many Cray fish tails ; pour in some good espag- nole, worked up with a fowl consomme, fla- voured with truffles, some Rhenish or dry Madeira wine. Glaze the pie lightly, and serve it as quickly after it is baked as you can. Pie (French) Raised, to be served Cold.— Bone some chickens, partridges, or phea- sants, the number according to the size you intend to make your pie; be particu- larly careful that no particle of bone re- mains, and that you do not break the skin ; when the whole is boned, with pepper and spiced salt sprinkled in, fill it well with the forcemeat made of chicken livers, (see Forcemeat for Raised Pies), and lay in long slips of lean ham, truffles, and fat livers ; then close your chickens, or whatever it may be, by drawing the skin of the neck over the part that is open; raise your pie the same as in the receipt for raised Pie to be served hot, only letj die crust be much thicker, and secure all the joining parts ; when so far done, cut some large thin slices of fat bacon, lay them first at the bottom, then all round the sides; make what you intend to put in as nearly to the shape of the pie as you possibly can, by filling up every part, that there may be no cavity under the meat; or it may oc- casion your pie to fall or lose its shape : when all is put in, cover it well over with fat bacon, and lay three bay-leaves on the top; for gravy, put iu some liquor in which truffles have been stewed, or some good strong veal or beef braize ; egg the edge of the pie round, and lay on a goo thick cover, joining it well to the edge, that being a great support to the pie ; then neatly trim it all round ; form on the topPIE 417 PIG of the crust a star of leaves with a hole in the centre ; on the sides festoons, leaves, or garlands, according to your own taste ; egg it lighty over, and bake it in a hot re- gularly heated oven. A small-sized pie will take about four hours baking ; a larger pie accordingly. Take care, on first put- ting it in, that it does not catch or burn, which it is apt to do; and, in that case, have plenty of paper to lay over it. Be- fore the pie is quite done, set on some good consomme or veal braise, and let it boil till it becomes very strong, and pour it into the pie as soon as it is taken out of the oven, and set it to cool; if the next day it should appear to have taken all the gravy, more must be added. It had better stand three or four days before it is served. You may, for a change, take off the cover, and in its place sprinkle some clear savoury jelly on the top. This is a good dish for the side-table. Pie (Hot Raised') a la Monglas*—Soak two fine fat livers in warm water till they are perfectly cleansed ; then set them on the fire in cold water ; when near boiling take out the livers and throw them into cold water again, and when cool cut them into scollops, season them well, and having melted a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four of truf- fles (all shred small), a small piece of shalot, blanched and minced, salt and spices to your taste ; put the livers into this, set it on a gentle fire for ten minutes ; then set it by, and when cold trim the pieces, take about a fourth part of them and pound them with the trimmings ; mix some of this with an equal quantity of good fowl farce. Having raised a crust | in the usual way (see Hot Raised Pie for (Pheasants), line the inside completely with the farce, lay the liver in proper order in it, pour in the herbs, and place on the whole two bay-leaves and slices of bacon, lay on the top, and finish the pie as above directed. When done, pour in a sauce made as follows : lake the pounded liver i that was set aside, put it into a saucepan with a spoonful of espagnole, make them < hot, and having strained, add to them |,; three ladiesful of espagnole, worked up with ' a fowl consommd, some Madeira wine, and four fine truffles, minced ; make this very < hot, but do not let it boil. Pie {Hot Raised) Russian.* — Take a ■i small salmon, and a small fat liver, cut » them into scollops, and simmer both (but ; separately) in some butter, with shred mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and shalot, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; mince the yolks of a dozen hard eggs. Make a raised crust as usual (see Hot Raised Pie of Phea- sant), within which put a layer of rice, previously boiled in chicken broth, but cold (as should be the other materials also); on this lay some of the scollops of salmon, on which strew part of the eggs ; then a layer of the liver, strew the egg, then the salmon again, and so on till your pie is full; then pour in the butter and herbs ; cover the whole with rice, and finish the pie accord- ing to the above, directions. 1 ie Fithiviers.*—Take eight dozen of larks, and having picked and singed them, split them open, take out the intestines! which (except the gizzards), mix with bread-crumbs and two pounds of the fol- lowing farce : Take equal quantities of fillet of veal and bacon, mince these, sea- son them with pepper, salt, and spices • then pound them and the intestines, adding occasionally small quantities of jelly to keep it of a proper consistence, and fill the bodies of the larks with it. Take abuot two pounds of paste for raised crusts, raise it as usual, making it either square or round, as you may think proper ; lay a bed of farce at the bottom of it, on which place the larks, well seasoned, and each wrapped in a thin slice of bacon, put some butter worked with flour over, cover the whole with slices of bacon, two bay-leaves and the top-crust; fix the edges together* ornament the top and sides according to your taste, dorez, and bake it for two hours and a half. Serve it cold. Woodcocks snipes, or any other small birds, mav be used instead of larks. J V , ——i axe a lew good baking apples, pare, core, and quarter tnem ; chop some onions very small; line a deep dish with paste, put in a layer of ie apples, strew a little sugar, and some ot the chopped onions over them ; season them, and lay lean mutton chops, also sea- soned, more onions, then the apples, &c as before, and so on till the disli is quite lull; cover, and bake the pie. Some leave out the sugar, and add potatoes and youno- pigeons, called squabs, ° EIG (Raked).—Lay your pig in a dish, flour it well all over, then rub it over with butter; butter the dish you lay it in and put it into the oven. When done enough take it out, and rub it over with n butter! cloth ; then put it again into the oven till it is dry, then take it out and lay it in a dish; cut it up, take a little veal gravy, 2 EPIG ' PIG 418 and take off the fat in the dish it was baked in, and there will he some good gravy at the bottom; put that to the veal gravy, with a little hit of butter, rolled in flour ; boil it up, and put it in a dish in which the pig has been laid, and put the brains with some sage into the belly. Some persons like a pig to be brought to table whole, in which case you are only to put what sauce you like into the dish. Pig (Barbicued).—Scald, &c. a pig of about fivo weeks old, tbe same as for roasting; make a stuffing with a few sage- leaves, the liver of the pig, and two an- chovies boned, washed, and cut extremely small; put them into a mortar, with some bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of butter, a very little Cayenne pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine ; beat them to a paste, and sew it up in the pig; lay it at a good distance before a large brisk fire ; singe it well; put two bottles of Madeira wine into the dripping-pan, and keep basting it all the time it is roasting ; when half done, put two French rolls into the dripping-pan ; and if there is not wine enough in the dripping-pan, add more : when the pig is nearly done, take the rolls and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon; take up the pig, send it to table with an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each side; then strain the sauce over it. Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks old, and stick it all over with blanched almonds, and baste it in the same manner with Madeira wine. Pic (Collared).—Take a fine young roasting pig, and as soon as it is kihe , dress off the hair, and draw it; wash it clean ; rip it open from one end to the other, and completely bone it; rub it all over with pepper and salt, a little cloves and mace beaten fine, some sage-leaves and sweet herbs, chopped fine ; then bind it up in a cloth. Fill the pot you mean to boil it in with soft water, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some peppercorns, cloves, mace, a handful of salt, and a pint of vinegar; when the liquor boils, put m the pig? and let it boil till tender ; take it up, and when almost cold, bind it over again; put it into an earthen pan, and pour the liquor that it was boiled in over t, and keep it covered ; when you want to use it, take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as you want to cut it, am n n cut it in slices, and lay it m your dis . Garnish with parsley. Pig en Galantine.*—Well scald a pig, bone and extend it on a linen cloth ; then lay over it a good meat stuffing, seasoned according to taste; put over the stuffing, which should be laid on about the thickness of a crown, first a layer of ham, cut in thin slices, and then a layer of hard eggs ; cover these layers with a little forcemeat, roll up the pig, being careful not to dis- place the layers, and cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, wrapping the whole in a filtering cloth ; wind some packthread tight round it, and let it boil for three hours, in equal quantities of stock and white wine, adding salt and coarse pepper, some roots and onions, a large bunch of parsley, shalots, a clove of garlic, cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, and basil; when done, leave it to cool in the stock, and serve cold. You may add, if you think proper, a layer of truffles. Pig’s Harslet.— Wash and dry some livers, sweetbreads, and some fat and lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin, to make them tender ; season with pepper, salt, and sage, and a little onion sbreded fine; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it tight with a needle and thread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. Or serve in slices, with parsley, for a fry. . , Serve with a sauce of port wme ana gravy, and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into a dish. Pig dressed like House Land).—Take the fore-quarter of a pig, about six weeks old , skin and dress it as a fore-quarter of lamb; flour it, and sprinkle it over with a little salt, and send it to table nicely frothed. With mint-sauce or salad it will eat like lamb. When it comes to table, cut off the shoulder, and squeeze the juice ot a Seville orange over it. The hind-quarter is i ery good roasted in tbe same way. Pig in Jelly.—Take a pig, and cut it into quarters ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint of Rhenish wine, or Lisbon wine, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, the juice of four lemons, and a few cloves ; m it stew over a slow fire for two hours ; a.ter it has stewed this time, take it up, lay the pig in a dish, strain the liquor, and when it is cold skim off the fat, leaving the settling at the bottom; warm the je y again, and pour over the pig; serve l P cold in the jelly. , „ Pio in Jelly.—Having prepared a pi0 as if for roasting, put it into a br-.us.ng pam large enough to contain it without spoilm0PIG 419 PIG the shape; add four calf’s feet, cut in pieces, a knuckle of veal, some slices of i beef and ham, a bunch of parsley, shalots, ! cloves, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, nutmeg, whole pepper and salt; cover the pig with slices of bacon, pour in a bottle of white wine, and double the quantity of good stock, cover the pan quite close, and set it on the fire for an hour, taking care that it does not boil too fast. When done, take out the pig gently, put the braise in ano- ther saucepan, clean the braising-pan, then < put a layer of fresh parsley and some Cray- i fish at the bottom of it, on which place the Spig, back downwards, and keep it hot. In the mean time, the braise having simmered, , skim and strain it; add some slices of peeled lemon, the whites and shells of eight eggs, well beaten (the latter should be pounded first), and boil the whole till perfectly clear, and of a proper consistence; then strain it through a napkin over the pig, so as to cover it completely; when the jelly is set, dip the pan into boiling water, and turn it out on a napkin folded to receive it. Pig Olives.—Bone, and cut off the head and feet of a fine pig ; take a part of the flesh, and mince it with some beef suet, then pound these with some bread crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (all shred), and add some cream, a spoonful of brandy, the yolks of six eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut the skin of the pig into pieces, in each of which roll some of the farce, tie up the olives, and cook them in some stock; add a glass of white wine, and a few slices of peeled lemon. Serve the olives with any sauce you may think proper. Pig s Pettitoes a la Ste. Menehould.— i Well clean and wash the pettitoes, then i line the bottom of a stewpan with an onion and a carrot, cut in slices, a few pepper- corns, parsley, one clove of garlic, and a bay-leaf ; over these lay bards of fat bacon, then place the pettitoes regularly over, then a fresh layer of bacon, then pettitoes again, and bacon over them; add some good beef stock, lay a round paper close on the top, cover it, put them to stew be- tween two fires very gently, till thoroughly done; then take them off, and when they are cool, toss them in eggs with pepper and salt; take them, and do them over with bread crumbs, lay them on paper; then dip them in clarified butter, and do’ ' them over with bread crumbs a second (time; lay them on the gridiron, and grill them a fine light brown; dish them up, and serve under them a good remola.de sauce. 11*10 (Rouladesof).—Scald a fine sucking pig, and having cut off the head and feet, bone and cut it into quarters; make a forcemeat with grated bacon, breadcrumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (shred small), three yolks of eggs, pepper and salt; put some oi this upon each quarter, roll them up, and tie and braise them in stock and white wine, When done, take them out, skim and strain the sauce, add to it a little cullis and lemon juice, and pour it over the roulades. Pio (Stuffed).—After having scalded your pig, and prepared it in the usual man- ner; make a stuffing with its liver minced, some blanched bacon, a few truffles, mush- rooms, shalots, fine capers, anchovies, fine herbs, pepper and salt, all warmed to°-e - ther in a saucepan. Pill the stomach of the pig with this stuffing, roast it, basting it with sweet oil. It is generally served, with a sauce a Vorange de Seville, seasoned with salt and white pepper. Pig (Timbale oj).*—Bone and take all the flesh from a nice pig, without injuring the skin; mince the meat with truffles, ham, bacon, parsley, and shalots; when minced’ soak them in oil, pepper and salt. Lay the skin open in a small stewpan, place the farce on it, close the skin, round it and cover it with slices of bacon; fill the sauce- pan with good stock, and a pint of white wine ; add sliced carrots, onions, parsley, garlic, shalots, cloves, bay-leaf and thyme* Let it be thoroughly stewed, and serve it either hot or cold; if the latter, it must be more highly seasoned, left to cool in the braise, and then turned out on a folded napkin. When sent to table hot, serve a sauce espagnole with it. Pig's Cheek (to prepare for boiling).— l ake off the snout, and thoroughly clean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and brains; sprinkle the head with salt, ^ s^ra*n f°r four-and-twenty hours. Well salt it with common salt and salt- petre, and if it is to be dressed without stewing with peas, it must lay in salt for eight or ten days, but if to be dressed with peas, it need not lay in salt for so Ion"- • and it must be washed first, and then sim- mer it till tender. Pig’s Ears*—Braise your pig’s ears in the same manner as boar’s head (see that article) : when cold, mince, and put them into a stewpan; take a dozen large onions, cut them in semicircles, put them also into a stewpan, with a dessert-spoon- 2 e 2PIG PIG 420 ful of flour; stir it well, and then addhalf- a glass of vinegar, a glass of stock, salt and pepper; give the whole a few hoils, then pour it over the ears, fry them lightly; and when done, lay them on a dish, with fried bread round. . , Pig’s Ears (Broiled).*—Having slightly salted the ears, boil them in some good stock, with salt, pepper coriander, tar- ragon, streaky bacon, and half a glass ot white wine ; when done, split them m two, towards the thick part; rub them lightly with some of their own fat, bread them all over and colour them on the gridiron. Pig’s Ears (Cake of)*-Take fifteen or eighteen pigs’ ears, and having singed and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them m halves, and put them into a pan with some sward of bacon, clear salted water, jumper, coriander, hay leaf, cloves, thyme sa t- petre ; cover the pan with a cloth garlic, basil, sage, and lay another pan on the top, leave them in this for eight or ten days, then drain, and put them into a braising pan, with water, a bottle of white wrne and a glass ofbrandy, and simmer Jem in about five hours take them off the fire when nearly cold, dram and arrange the ears in layers, in a well-tinned mould alternately with pieces of tongue a Idcarlate, when full, cover, and put a weight on it keep the mould as even as possible et it cool, turn it out and serve the cake with j y. Pic’s Ears a la Lyonnaise. —Take some braised pig’s ears, and having cut them into pieces, put them into a pan with a few chopped onions (previously ^ed up i® « little butter), add a smal q <■ flour, and a glass of stock; reduce it, and serve with vinegar and lemon j nice. ^ Pig’s Ears with a Puree, of Lentds. Put rather more than a pint of lentils lnt astewpan; lav on them some pig s ears, tw0 carrots, three onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, two hay leaves, and salt- when the ears are done, take ilTm out’ and put them into a saucepan set it again on on u dish, and Dram the ears, layJh® ^ cover them completely ;,i. anv Pig’s ears may bo dressed likens,£“J other kind of puree you maj l>,r’s Pars (Stu/ed and Make a farce of str°'jky8 ^“^Jrbs ’ shred lmd1,r breTd staked in cream, salt, and spices; with this farce stuff as many half* boiled pig’s ears as you may require ; take if ’ an equal number ot large slices of bacon, spread a layer of the farce over each, and tie an ear in every slice ; cover them well with bread crumbs, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a slow' fire, hasting with their own gravy. Pig’s Ears, a la Venitienne*—Boil the ears in some stock, with a couple of sprigs either of sage or tarragon; when quite cold, rub tliem with lard; cover them completely with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and bake them. Pig’s Ears in various Ways.—Huh the ears daily with the following mixture: salt, hay leaves, basil, and cloves, all pounded together ; in four or five days boil them thoroughly, eitherin water alone, or with green or dried peas; serve the ears with a puree of peas, or sauce Robert. I hey are also sometimes cut in small pieces, and broiled or fried according to your taste. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Fricaseed).—If they are to he dressed with cream, no vinegar should he put into the pickle. Cut the feet and ears into neat hits, and boil them in a little milk; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon peel. Be- fore serving, add a little cream, flour, but- ter, and salt. Pig’s Feet Jelly.—Clean and prepare them the same as for fricaseeing, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every hone can be taken out; throw in a handful of chopped sage, and a handful of chopped parsley, and a seasoning of pep- per, salt, and mace, in fine powder ; simmer {ill the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon form. Pig’s Feet a la Ste. Menehould. —tot some pig’s feet in halves, and having t.«! them up. that their form may be preserved, put them into a saucepan, with thyme, hay-leaf, carrots, onions, cloves, parde). scallions, a little brine, half a bottle white wine, two ladiesful o brotli, or^w- ter (they require a great deal of iquid,- they ought to be a long time on the fire)^ some bits of any kind of meat may also be added. IVhen the feet have simmeredi tor six hours, leave them to cool in the liquor untie them carefully; the next day J them into melted hutter. seoson with pep^ per, cover complete y w£h b ^ with. and broil them slowly. ber\ out anv sauce. Pig's Feet and Ears ( the feet and ears very clean, and bePIG 421 PIG every foot put a bay-leaf; when tliey are well soaked, add some cloves, mace, cori- ander-seed, and ginger; put a bottle of white wine to three pair of leet and ears, some bay-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs ; let them boil gently till they are tender, then take them out of the liquor, lay them in an earthen pan; when cold, take oft' the fat, and strain the liquor over them. They Seat well cold, or warmed in the jelly, thickened with butter rolled in flour ; or take the feet and ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them, or fry them in butter; lay the ears in the middle, and the feet round; or ragout them. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Ragout of).-—Take them out of the pickle, split the feet, dip them in ess;, then in bread crumbs and chopped parsley ; fry them in lard, drain them ; cut the ears into long narrow slips, flour them, put them into good gravy; add ketchup, morels, and pickled mush- rooms ; stew them, pour them into a dish, and lay the feet upon them. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Soused).—Clean them, and boil them till they are tender ; then split the feet, and put them and the ears in salt and water. When you use them, dry them well in a cloth, dip them in batter, fry them, and send them to table with melted butter in a boat. They may be eaten cold, and will keep a considerable time. Pig’s Feet with Truffles*—Cut the feet in halves, tie and dress them as directed for le Ste. Menchould, but when they have simmered eight hours, remove them from the fire ; when about half cold, take them out of the sauce, and bone them ; make a farce as follows : Take equal portions of the white parts of cold roasted fowl, crumb of bread, and ready dressed calf’s udder, pound them all, at first separately, and then all together; mix them with three or four yolks of eggs, some minced truffles, a little cream, salt, pepper, and spices; these being well amalgamated, add a few truffles, cut in slices. Put this farce into the spaces left by the bones, cover it with either calf’s or pig’s caul; keep them in their proper form, dip them in melted butter, and bread them. About twenty minutes before serving, broil them slowly on both sides. Serve them with- out sauce. Pig’s Head (Collared).— Very nicely scout* the head and ears ; take off the hair and. snout, and take out the eyes and brain; let it lay for one night in water; then drain it; salt it extremely well, with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie for live days. Boil it sufficiently to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of an equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears; and, if you think proper, put the pig’s feet round the out- side, when boned, or the thin parts of, a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put it under a weight, and do not take off the covering until it is quite cold. If you wish it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in also some pieces of lean pork, and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it, either with or without batter. Pig’s Kidneys with Champagne*—Mince the kidnies, and put them with a bit of butter, shred parsley and shalot, salt, pep- per, and nutmeg, into a pan, toss it up, and when lightly browned, add a dessert spoonful of flour, stir it in, and then pour on a glass of champagne ; stir all together over the fire, without letting it boil. Pig’s Liver and Brains in Caul*— Mince half a pound of pig’s liver, and three quarters of a pound of fat: mix them together, season with salt, pepper, spices and dried herbs ; take some pig’s caul cut in pieces, in each of which tie up a portion of the above ; flatten them and broil them on a moderate fire. Pig’s brains are done precisely in the same way. Pig’s Liver (Fromage of).*-—Take three pounds of liver, two pounds of bacon, and half a pound of beef; mince them all to- gether, and then add shred parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, aromatic herbs, and spices, pounded; lay over the bottom of a mould or saucepan, very thin slices of bacon, on which spread the above farce, to about three inches in thickness; put a layer of seasoned lardons on this, then the farce again, and so on, alternately, till the mould is full; cover it with slices of ba- con, and put it in the oven; bake it for three hours. When cold, dip the mould in hot water, which will enable you to turn out the fromage with ease ; make it hot in the bain-marie before you serve it.PIG 422 PIG Pig (Quarter of) with Peas*—Cut a delicate young pig into quarters, which put into a braising-pan on slices of bacon, with carrots, turnips, parsley, sage, bay- leaf, salt, and pepper; set the pan on the fire, and when it begins to be flavoured, pour in a pint of good stock, as much white wine, and let it stew for five or six hours ; then take it out, and keep it hot; dress some young peas in the sauce, and having glazed the quarters, lay them in a dish, and the peas round. Pig (Sucking).—A sucking pig is in prime order for the spit when it is about three weeks old. It loses part of its goodness every hour after it is killed ; if not quite fresh, no art can make the crack- ling crisp. To he eaten in perfection, it should he dressed the same day that it is killed ; it requires very careful roasting, and should not be left for an instant. The ends must have much more fire than the middle ; for this purpose is contrived an iron to hang before the middle part, called a pig-iron. Hoast it at a clear brisk fire, at some dis- tance. The cracklingmust be nicely crisped, and delicately and lightly browned, with- out being either blistered or burnt. Pig’s (Sucking) Feet.—Blanch two or three sets of feet and the plucks, then put the feet into half a pint of water, with a couple of shalots, a small quantity of sage, and parsley chopped fine, some pounded nutmeg and mace, a very little of each; when the feet are three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced, mince the pluck, and put it to the feet with some cullis, half a table-spoonful of lemon- pickle, and a table-spoonful of white wine; season according to taste, with Cayenne, pepper, and salt. Stew the feet till they are tender, and serve with sippets of bread round them, either plain or fried. Pig (Fillets of Sucking) era Chemise.*—• Take what remains from a cold roast pig, and cut it into small slices ; make a farce of the liver, heart, and marrow of the animal, some streaky bacon, bread soaked in milk, and yolks of eggs, season it mo- derately. Take some sheep s caul, cut it into pieces the size of your hand, upon each of which lay some of the farce, and a slice of tho pig; cover these with the farce and another piece of caul, fix the edges together with beaten egg, bread and broil them slowly. Pig (Sucking) ii la rere Douillette. Take a sucking pig, cut off its head, and cut the pig into four quarters, put them to stew between bards of fat bacon, with the head split and laid in the middle, covering the whole with a good braise, adding nearly half a bottle of sherry, with a bay-leaf, carrots, onions, parsley, a small piece of garlic, and some salt: let the whole stew gently between two fires for the space of half an hour; then take it up, and lay it in a stewpan, with a little of the braise it was stewed in, and set it by the fire ; pass the remainder through a sieve into another stewpan; put this on the fire, and as soon as it boils stir in five good spoonsful of plain sauce ; when that boils, put in some truffles, mushrooms, morels, fat livers, and let it boil till nearly as thick as sauces in general. Having taken up the stewed pig, and laid it on a dish, cut a sweetbread (previously stewed) into slices, and lay them round the pig, put a liaison of the yolks of two eggs and a little cream into the sauce, with the other things ; add the juice of half a lemon, and pour the whole over the pig ; be careful that it is very hot, but take care that it does not boil after the eggs are put in. Pig (roasted Sucking).—A pig to roast is best from three to four weeks old. Pre- pare a stuffing with slices of bread and butter, sprinkled well with chopped sage, and seasoned with pepper and salt, laying five or six slices one upon another, and put them into the inside of the pig; skewer it well, to prevent it from falling out, and then spit it, previously rubbing it over with sweet oil; put it down before a moderate fire to roast for two hours, more or less, according to its size ; when thoroughly done, take off the head, and split the pig straight down the back (there must be a dish under ready to receive it) ; then dish lip the two halves, and splitting the head, lay half at each end of the dish pour some good strong gravy under it, and serve hot. Or you may take out the stuffing, and mix it with some melted but- ter, and serve it as a sauce ; or sausage- meat may be put inside the pig, instead of the bread and sage. Some persons prefer having the pig baked, instead of roasted, it is equally good either way. Pig (to scald Sucking). — The instant the pig is killed, put it for a few minutes into cold water : then pound a little resin extremely fine, and rub the pig all over with it, and then put it, for half a minute, into a pail of scalding water ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does no come off, put it in again. When quite423 PIG PIG clean, wash it well with warm water, and afterwards in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails; put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in i cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. Pigs Stuffed(Sucking).*—Having scalded , a pig, singe, and bone it to the head, which 6 leave whole; take a pound of call’s liver, a pound of bacon, mince both these with a little sage, pounded spice, aromatic herbs, salt and pepper ; till the body of the pig with this; also roll in it some large lardons, also lard the limbs and back of the pig; sew in the farce, rub the whole body with lemon, lay in a cloth some sage, and four bay leaves, cover the back of the pig with slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and tie it up ; put it into a saucepan; pour on it equal quantities of good stock, and white wine, and. let it simmer for three hours and a half over a moderate fire ; then take it off, and leave it in the saucepan ; in a hour’s time take it out, press it carefully, so that the shape may not be spoiled; do not re- move the cloth until perfectly cold; lay a folded napkin on a dish, and serve the pig on it. Pig’s Tails a la Puree*—Take a half : dozen pig’s tails, leave on the skin, and (cut them into pieces about eight inches long; brflise with some lentils, two carrots, I two onions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, stock, ■ or water, and salt; when they are done, i finish in the same manner as pig’s ears a la I puree. Pig’s Tongues (Smoked).*—Take asmany i pig’s tongues as you please, take out the i horny parts, scald them sufficiently to enable 1 you to remove the first skin ; put them, as I closely together as you can, iuto a jar, i; rubbing each with salt and a little saltpe- ^ tre, add basil,bay-leaf, thyme, and juniper ] berries ; place something heavy on the top I to press them down, fill all the inter- stices with salt, and cover the jar very close, arid set it in a cool place. In a week’s time take out the tongues, drain t> and tie them in skins like black puddings, i and smoke them. When the tongues are required for table, J boil them in water, with a little wine, a > hunch of parsley, scallions, onions, thyme, : bay-leaf, and basil. Serve them cold. PIGEONS. — Pigeons should be ex- r tremely fresh; when so, and in good or- - der, they are plump and fat at the vent, and their feet pliable; but when they are stale, the vent is open, green, and withered. Tame pigeons are considered preferable to the wild. Pigeons a VAurore.*—Put into a pan a good bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, then your pigeons ; set the pan on the fire, and brown the birds ; then mix in half a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of consommd; boil it quickly, and add some mushrooms, and an onion stuck with cloves ; in about a quarter of an hour take out the birds, reduce the sauce, add two eggs, take out the onion and bay-leaf, and pour it over the pigeons, and let them cool, and then stew them with mushrooms minced and mixed with the sauce ; moisten the birds well with the batter, and cover them with bread crumbs, dip them in eggs beaten and seasoned, and bread them again. Fry your pigeons to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Pigeons (to broil).—When thoroughly cleaned, split the backs, pepper and salt them, then broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mush- rooms, in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Pigeons a, la Brunswick*—Take half a dozen small pigeons, which braise between slices of bacon, with a little lemon juice ; roast some truffles on hot ashes, and blanch whole artichoke bottoms in a little stock. Make a farce with veal sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacon, breasts of fowl or game, minced, and give these a few turns, with some good stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. Put a layer of this /aree on a dish, then place the artichoke bottoms, in each of which stick a truffle, and be- tween each a pigeon, and a slice of veal glazed on the latter; cover the whole with the remainder of the farce, and pour over it some veal gravy. Pigeons en Caisses.*—Prepare six pre- viously cooked small pigeons, in a similar way to quails en caisses. Pigeons d la Casserole.* — Truss your pigeons with the feet inwards, and having put some butter into a stowpan, lay in the pigeons, breast downwards ; as soon as it is melted, season them with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs ; set the pan on a brisk fire, turn the birds every ten minutes for the space of half an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them; then put them on a dish. Take three-fourths of the but- ter from the pan, mix with the remainder a little flour, the juice of a lemon, or two424 PIG no spoonsful of vinegar and half a glass of water; boil these up twice, and then pour them on the birds. Pigeons in Caul.* — Take some very young pigeons, and having trussed them, split them down the back, and fill them with a good farce; lay a thin slice of bacon over each half, and wrap them in a piece of caul, previously soaked in warm water; bread them, and bake in a moderate oven. Piceons a la Charmante.—Scald half a dozen small pigeons, and braise them with a few slices of bacon and lemon, a bundle of herbs, a proper quantity of stock, pepper and salt. In the mean time lard three or four sweetbreads, which stew slowly in a little broth, with some thin slices of veal, a bundle of herbs, two cloves, basil, and two or three scallions ; as soon as they are done, skim, strain, and reduce the liquor, and glaze the sweetbreads with it; then lay them on a dish alternately with the pigeons, over which pour a sauce made as follows : put a little consommd into the pan with the glaze, stir it round to gather what may adhere to the bottom and sides of the pan, then strain, and add more pepper and salt if requisite; squeeze in a little lemon- juice. Take care none of the sauce goes on the sweetbreads, as it would spoil the look of the glaze. Pigeons (Chartreuse of).*—Take a num- ber of carrots and turnips, some of which cut into pieces the size of your finger, some into bits only an inch long, and the remainder (and they ought to be the largest) into farthings ; blanch all in a little salt and water, then drain and cook them in some consomme; blanch also some French beans, young peas, lettuces or cabbages; when done, press out the water from the latter, drain the rest, and let them cool; then take a circular mould, line it com- pletely with a white paper, well buttered ; on the bottom of this place a layer of the carrots and turnips (in farthings), the beans and peas, round the sides of the mould; place first, the other pieces of carrots and turnips (properly intermixed), then the lettuces or cabbages; in the cen- tre of this put three pigeons poetts, cut in pieces. Malco a small macedoine with what vegetables may remain from the above ; mix it with an allemande, and having reduced it, pour it over the birds, so that it will fill up all the interstices and cover the whole with cabbages or lettuces ; keep it hot in the bain-marie ; do not turn it out till the moment it should be sent to table; drain off the water, and glaze it. Pigeons in Chipolata.*—Having pre- pared and trussed your pigeons, place them in a braising pan between slices of bacon, with some veal, two carrots, three onioDS, two bay-leaves, cloves, parsley, scallions, thyme, and a ladleful of stock; simmer them for an hour ; then drain and place them on a disli; mask with a chipolata. Pigeons en Compote *— Truss and tie into proper form three pigeons; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and make a roux, in which brown some slices of streaky bacon ; pour on the pigeons a ladleful and a half of water, with some parsley, seal- | lions, a bay leaf, mushrooms, salt, and pep- • per, stir it well till it boils, skim it, and when the pigeons are three parts done, put in some small onions, well pickled, and previously done up in a little butter and drained. Lay the birds in a dish ; garnish with the onions and bacon. Pigeons a la Conti.*-—Make a farce with the white meat of fowl or game, bacon, and crumb of bread pounded together, and j mixed with yolks of eggs ; stuff your pi- ; geons with this, truss, tie them in slices I of bacon, and roast them gently ; lay toasts I in the dripping-pan to receive what falls | from them ; serve the birds on the toasts. Pigeons en Coquilles* — Take three or four pigeons, put them into a deep dish j with some lard, cover them close, and place the dish on hot ashes ; take some scol- lop-shells, line them with thin slices of • bacon, and when the pigeons are done, J put one in each of the shells, and cover I them with puff-paste, put them into a gen- tle oven for a quarter of an hour. Pigeons a la Crapaudine.*—Iruss your pigeons with the feet inwards, cut them, open from the end of the breast to the j crop, but do not separate them; flatten 1 the backs, season and broil them. Boil i together a dessert-spoonful of shred shalots, three spoonsful of vinegar, half a glass of water, salt and pepper; pour this sauce over the broiled pigeons, and serve them. J Pigeons a la Ccuillere.*—Put a good ; bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and i pepper, into a pan, in which give halt a dozen pigeons a few turns ; let them be I browned, put them into a stewpan between > slices of bacon, with the above butter, &c. and some poelte, set them on the fire tor a j quarter of an hour, then drain and serve them with a cray-fish between each over a green Hollandaise. Pigeons a la I'iane.—Cut some puff-pas e into eight pieces, each of which press intoPIG •125 PIG a scollop-shell to take the form, and bake them; in the mean time braise four pi- geons till about half done, then take them r out, dip each in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour ; and the paste being baked, remove them from the shells, place the pigeons into these paste-shells, and cover every bird with another. Pigeons (Fricassee of)*—Cut some young : pigeons into quarters, which blanch for a quarter of an hour in warm water, then ! dry them well, and give them a few turns i: in some melted butter. Add half a pint : of good stock, a little pepper and salt, and when nearly done, half a glass of cham- pagne, a few morels dressed in veal gravy; serve your fricassee very hot. Pigeons (Fricassee of) with Blood*— Take the blood of as many pigeons as you may wish to use, squeeze into it a little lemon juice, and set it aside. Prepare your birds as above; when nearly done, add some veal gravy, and having mixed two or three yolks of eggs with the blood, stir it into the fricassee a little at a time. Serve very hot. Pigeons (Fricassee of white.—Take as many pigeons as your dish will require (and cut them or not according to their size), put them into a stewpan with a good piece of butter, a slice of ham, chopped mushrooms, a bundle of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and thyme : when they have soaked about twenty r minutes, add a small quantity of stock, a little salt and whole pepper ; set them on a slow fire to simmer, reduce the broth, take out the ham and herbs, make a liaison, I with the yolks of two eggs and some cream, make it quite hot without boiling i add a little lemon juice, and serve. The 1 pigeons may be garnished with sweet- ( breads, artichoke bottoms, &c. These, : however, must be scalded before they are put to the fricassee. Pigeons au Cratin.—Prepare and scald three or four pigeons, a sweetbread and two fat livers (also scalded), two or three artichoke bottoms parboiled, a few mush- rooms, a slice of ham, parsley, scallions, thyme, half a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, two cloves ; fry these lightly in a proper quantity of butter, then add gravy, a glass of white wine, a little stock, whole pepper and salt; let the whole simmer slowly, and when done, skim it well; pour half the sauce into a dish that will bear the heat, and set in on a brisk fire to form the gratin, then put the pigeons, &c„ and let it stand; squeeze a little lemon juice into the remainder of the sauce, and pour it over the whole, and serve. Pigeons (Hotchpotch of.—Take two or three good sized pigeons, truss and boil them over a slow fire in some stock with carrots, parsnips, celery, small onions (all previously scalded), parsley, shalots, thyme a bay-leaf, pepper and salt. When done, place the pigeons in a deep dish, with the roots, &c. arranged around, and serve with a Spanish sauce. Pigeons in Jelly.—Pick two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible, by singeing, washing, and clean- ing the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown, and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, and with it half fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. W hen the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done at least four-and-twenty hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appear- ance in the middle range of a second course; or, when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs must be bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. Pigeons en Macedoine.*—Having tho- roughly cleaned four young tame pigeons, put them to soak for a whole day, then beat up a pound of butter with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, with which stuff the pigeons; truss, and rub them over with butter and lemon, place them in a stewpan between two slices of bacon, add some consomme. When done, drain and serve them on a macedoine of vegetables. Pigeons (Masqueraded).—Cut two or three large pigeons in quarters, which braise with a few slices of bacon, and peeled lemon, a little consomme, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a couple of cloves ; tako a large eel, and cut it into as many pieces as you have quarters; split these open, take out the bone, lard the outside with bacon, and boil them in a little veal cullis ; as soon as the fish is done, reduce the cullis, and with it glaze each piece of eel, and having laid the quarters of pigeon on426 PIG PIG your dish, place a bit of eel on every one, and serve with any sauce you may think proper. Pigeons with Marrow.—Truss three or four large pigeons for roasting, and stuff them with a farce made of beef marrow, two anchovies, shalots, parsley, tarragon leaves (all shred very small), seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and hound to- gether with the yolks of two eggs. IVrap the birds in slices of bacon and paper, roast and serve them with a sauce made as fol- lows : Take a little cullis, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, two slices of peeled lemon, some bruised rocamboles, salt, and pepper; boil plus for twenty or thirty minutes, till of a good consist- ence, strain, add a little butter, simmer a minute or two, and then pour it into the dish under the pigeons. Pigeons a, la Monarque.*—Take six young pigeons, as near of a size as possi- ble, and having peppered and trussed them properly, heat three quarters of a pound of butter, to which add the juice of two or three lemons and a little salt; put the pigeons into this, give them a few turns, but be careful not to let the birds take the least colour; in a few minutes take them out, and having completely lined a stewpan with bacon, lay the pigeons in it (the legs towards the centre of the pan), pour in the whole of the butter, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of con- somme, add a seasoned boquet; cover them with slices of bacon, and a round of but- tered paper; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen as soon as it boils, and put hot ashes at the top. When sufficiently done, drain them and putthem into a silver dish over a ragout a la Toulouse; between each bird a blanched cock’s-comb, and a crayfish, and on each a veal sweetbread. Pigeons a la Montmorence.*—Having well cleaned the pigeons, fill them with any good farce you think proper, wrap each in bacon, place them in small moulds exactly their size, cover them very close, and put them in a moderate oven for three hours ; then take them out of the moulds, pour some rich consomme over, and serve them very hot. Pigeons with Onions.—Cut a dozen large onions into dice, which put into a stewpan witli plenty of butter; set them on the fire, and keep 'stirring till they are done ; when cold, mix with them the yolks of three eggs, a little grated bacon, two chopped anchovies, a pinch of pounded aniseed, salt, and pepper. In the mean time, having braised some pigeons, cover each completely writh the above prepara- tion, and then in veal caul, which fix to- gether with white of egg; roll them in bread crumbs, place them on a dish, pour a few drops of oil or melted butter over, and bake them. Serve them with a sauce composed of cullis and consommi. Pigeons like Ortolans.*—Cover your pigeons with small slices of bacon, placed like scales, so completely that the feet can barely be seen ; give them a few turns in a sauce a atelets, and then fasten them to a spit, and roast before a clear fire; a very short time is sufficient. Pigeons en Papillotes.*—Your pigeons being ready, cut off the feet, and truss them with the legs inwards, split them down the back, flatten and season them with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatics ; put into a saucepan a good piece of butter, a quarter of a pound of grated bacon, four dessert-spoonsful of oil, and the pigeons; set them on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then take out the pigeons, and put to the butter three dessert-spoonsful of mushrooms, one of shalots, and one of parsley (all shred small) salt and spices, give them a few turns, and pour the sauce over tlie birds; have ready some square pieces of paper, oil them, and fold a half pigeon in each piece; about half an hour before dinner, boil them over a slow fire. Serve w-ith a clear gravy. Pigeons with Parmesan.—Take the livers of as many pigeons as you intend to dress, mince them with grated bacon, chopped mushrooms, shalots and parsley; mix them together, stuff the birds with it, and put them in a stewpan, wTith some slices of veal; cover them witli bacon ; add a few spoonsful of broth ; set them on a slow fire to simmer. When done, take out the pigeons, and put in a little cullis ; give it a boil, and then strain it. Put some of this sauce into a dish for table ; grate Parmesan cheese into it, and then put in the birds, set the dish on hot ashes ; pour more sauce, grate cheese over, and colour it witli a salamander. Pigeons ( Pickled).—Bone them ; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boil- ing water ; let them boil a minute or two to plump : after this, take them out, and thoroughly dry them; then put them into a pickle, which should be made of equal quantities of white nine.PIG PIG 427 : and white wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and a few bay-leaves. When it boils up, ; put the pigeons into it. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will he sufficient to do r them ; but if they are large they will re- quire twenty minutes. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. As soon as the pickle is cold, take off the fat, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down closely, so that the air may be excluded. Instead of larding, put into it some stuffing, made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow, in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeon Pie.—Chop some parsley and lemon thyme, with a few mushrooms; stew these in a little butter, into which put i half a dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt in tbeir insides, and their legs turned in; stew them for a few minutes, and turn them; when they begin to fry, put in sufficient consomme to cover them, in which let them stew till they are well done; take them from the'fire to cool; in the meantime make a good puff paste, part of which rollout, and place round the edge of a dish ; lay the pigeons in with the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, and pour over them half of the liquor they were stewed in; add a little pepper and salt, then lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly round, the same as you would any other pie ; on the top form a star of leaves, with a hole in the centre; egg it lightly over, and put it to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that it has not too much colour; when done, add to the liquoT that remained from the pigeons, a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and pour it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for a remove or side dish. Pigeons (Potted).—Be very particular that they are quite fresh ; clean them ' thoroughly, and season them with salt and pepper; lay them close together in a small deep pan, for the smaller the sur- face, and the more closely they are packed, the less quantity of butter will be re- 1 quired ; cover them with butter, then tie them over with very thick paper, and bake them. When cold, put them to diy in pots that will hold two or three in | each, and pour butter over them, using i that which was baked as part. Observe • that the butter should be pretty thick over i them, if they are done for keeping. The pigeons would lie closer, and want less butter, if they are boned, and put into the I pot in an oval form. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and they will eat extremely well. If a high seasoning is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne pepper, before baking. Pigeons en Poularde.* — Choose as large pigeons as you can, which fill with a good farce, mixed with rich cream ; truss them like fowls, lard with bacon, and wrap each in caul; fasten them on a spit, and roast them ; take care they are not too highly coloured. Serve with any sauce you please. Pigeons a la Provencale.*—Lard your pigeons with pieces of anchovies; put some olive oil into a pan, and when it boils, give the birds a few turns in it over a slow fire, with two dozen small onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of chervil; moisten them with equal quantities of stock and white wine, and leave it to boil slowly ; when nearly done, add five or six small sausages, and some lemon juice. Skim off all the fat, and serve very hot. Pigeons to Roast.—Let the pigeons be thoroughly cleaned, leave in the livers, truss them, and put a stuffing into the crops, the same as for fillet of veal; put them down to roast, and singe them well ; about a quarter of an horn- will be suffi- cient to do them ; froth them with butter ; serve them garnished with water cresses, good gravy under them, and parsley and butter in a boat. Pigeons with Roots.* — Braise your chickens as directed for chipolata. Serve them with glazed lettuces round, and petites racines in the centre. Pigeons (Salmi of).*—Cut up three or four cold roasted pigeons, and put them into a stewpan, with a little veal and ham, five or six carrots, and an old partridge ; let them stand on a slow fire till they stick to the pan; then moisten them with Champagne, good consommti, veal gravy, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, cover it close, and reduce it. When done (and a short time is sufficient) serve it very hot with truffles, morels, sliced lemons, and, if you like it, a few larks. Pigeons au Sang.*—Take the rem- nants of any kind of game you may have, mince the tenderest parts with some streaky bacon, parsley, salt, spices, and a little lard ; line a small stewpan with thin slices of bacon, lay the farce on this, thicken it with some stock, and the blood of as many pigeons as you intend to dress ; when it is of the proper consistence, cover the pigeons with it and slices of bacon;•108 PIG PIG set them on the fire, and as soon as they are done, dish the birds, and pour the sauce over them. Pigeon Soup* — Take three plump pigeons, truss them os for boiling; run a skewer through the head and neck, to keep them upright; then scald and boil them in broth and veal gravy, to which add roots mid herbs, cut into small pieces os for potage a la Julienne; season the whole well, and stew it over a slow fire. W hen done, pour the soup into a tureen, and place the pigeons in with the heads up- wards, os if swimming. Pigeons (Stewed).—Make a stuffing witli livers, parboiled and bruised, a bit of butter, a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet herbs, chopped, and volkofegg; fill the pigeons, tie them at each end, half roast, or fry them, put them into some good gravy, or beef broth, with an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a slice of lemon ; let them stew very gently till tender; strain the sauce, skim off the fat; put to it pickled mushrooms, Cayenne, forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs. The pigeons may be larded. Pigeons (Stuffed).*—Make n farce with any remnants of fowl you may happen to have, some veal sweetbreads, truffles, (all chopped small-), pounded bacon, salt, pep- per, and yolks of eggs: fill the pigeons with this, put them into a pan in some melted butter; in a quarter of an hour cover the pan close, and let them stand till done, turning them occasionally. Pigeons (Timbale of).—Take ns many young pigeons as you intend to have tim- bales, and give them a few turns with any materials you please. Make a paste with Hour, beef suet (sliced small), yolks of eggs, salt and water, keep it rather firm ; lino your moulds (having buttered them well) with this, and put a pigeon in each, cover them with paste, and bake them; when done, make a small hole in the top of every one, through which, pour some veal gravy; serve them hot. Pigeons (Timbale of) au Fumet.—Make a farce with the meat of a hare or rabbit that is very high ; some ham, calfs udder, truffles, or mushrooms, scallions, slinlots, (all shred small), grnted bacon, spices, and yolks of eggs. Line a timbale mould completely, with thin slices ot bacon, on which lay about three-fourths ot the above farce ; make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a cold ragout of pigeons, put the remainder of the farce over, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, and bake it. AVhen done, take off the bacon, drain away the fat, and having turned it over, make a little hole in the top, into which pour any sauce you may think proper, adding to it a little lemon juice, and serve. Pigeons ru Tortue.*—Take half a dozes very small pigeons, pick and scald them; leave on the pinions, claws, and heads; but cut off the bills. Take as many short mul very thick cucumbers, make a hole in the end of each, through which scoop out all the inside, and having blanched them about five minutes, put a pigeon into each cucumber; have the head, Ccc. about an inch beyond the cucumber, so as to re- semble a turtle. Have the same of slices of fillet of veal (previously soaked in a marinade), on each of which, place a pigeon ; put these between slices of bacon on a stewpan ; dilute them with veal graw, and stew them gently ; when done, take them out carefully, and serve on the ’ veal. Pigeons (to Truss).—Pigeons are drawn! ■ in the same manner as fowls, except that |- the livers should be left in, as a pigeon I has no gall; skewer them the same as fowls, with stuffing as for fillet of veal, put where the crop was taken out. Pigeons <1 la FenitienneJ—Choose two small fat pigeons, mul having trussed them, tie them into an oval form, place them in a stewpan on slices of bacon, with sweet herbs, morels, artichoke bottoms, and sweetbreads (all minced), a little butter, equal quantities of stock and white wine, veal gravy and a small piece of garlic tied in a bit of cloth ; let these simmer over a slow fire till sufficiently done; then take off all the fat, and serve the pigeons with all the above ingredients. Pigeons (Cutlets of) a l Annagnae.*—• Take the breasts of half a dozen pigeons, , mince, and then pound them ; pound also an equal quantity of calf's udder, and a rather less proportion of panada, adding to the latter mushrooms, slinlots and parsley, and other herbs; all being well pounded separately, beat them up toge- ther, adding two eggs to bind it. Putter a baking tin, and spread the fares all oyer it, about an inch in thickness ; when quite cold, cut it into the form of cutlets, with- out, however, detaching it from the tin. which place on a stove to warm the ( butter. Take ns many pinion hones as you have cutlets, scrape them well, and stick one into the end of each cutlet, dip them first in beaten eggs, aud theu in breaPIN PIL 429 crumbs; fry tliern slowly. Dish them in ! miroton, with fried parsley in the centre. Pigeons (Cutlets of) a la Bourgeoise*—• Divide your pigeons in halves, from the •: neck to the rump ; turn the foot inwards, . so that it may appear like the bone of a i chop ; season them with salt and pepper, i and dip each, first in melted butter, and i then in bread crumbs ; broil them slowly, and serve them with a clear gravy or shalot sauce. Pigeons ( Wild) a VEtouffade.*— Take three wild pigeons, and lard with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, parsley, shalots, i basil, (all shred fine), spices and aroma- : tic herbs ; then put the birds into a stew- l pan between slices of bacon ; add a thin one of ham, two onions stuck with two (cloves, a carrot sliced, a seasoned bouquet, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme ; '• let them be thoroughly done, and dish i them; strain the sauce over, and serve 1 them. Pigeons (Wild) en Marinade.*-—-Your pigeons being ready for dressing, cut tbem b in halves or quarters, soak them in a light s marinade ; when they have lain in this for j some time, drain, and dip them in batter, i fry them of a nice colour, and serve them ■ with fried parsley. Pigeons ( Wild) Poeles.*—Take three I' or four wild pigeons, truss them with their : feet inwards ; line a stewpan with slices of bacon, a thin one of ham, a seasoned - bouquet, two onions stuck with cloves, a carrot cut in slices, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme; put in the pigeons, cover with bacon, and set the whole on a brisk fire ; as soon as it boils, place it in a stove with a moderate fire under and over, and let them stand three quarters of an hour ; then drain and serve them with a poivrude. Pigeon (Wood).—The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh of a dark colour ; they are chosen by the same rules as the tame pigeon. If the wood pigeon is properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. They should be served with a good gravy. PILLOW of Bice.—Put on four quarts of strong stock to boil, with bruised ginger, mace, cloves, allspice, and whole pepper. In the meanwhile put on half a pound of butter in a large stewpan, and fry a nice fowl (trussed for boiling) brown all over ; then put in four large liandsful of Patna rice, well washed, dried, and picked clean, and salt sufficient to season it ; let it simmer gently, and keep it well stirred till all the stock is quite absorbed and the rice quite eatable, and so dry that it will separate well, and not clog together : to make it so, it should be over a very slow stove to dry it gradually. Have ready five eggs, boiled hard, and four large onions, cut in rings, and fried crisp. Put the fowl in the dish, cover it with the rice, smooth it over, aud garnish with the onions and eggs, cut in slices. Some add mutton chops sauted, or veal tendons stewed. PINE Apple Chips.—Pare and trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; take half the weight of the fruit in powder sugar; lay the slices in a basin, with sugar strewed between ; let it stand till the sugar be dissolved, then set it on a moderate fire to simmer till the chips be quite clear, when set it by. The next day remove all the syrup from the slices, place them on glasses, and dry them in a gentle oven. Pine Apple in a Compote.—Turn off the rind of a pine, cut it in slices, hut not too thin ; have some sugar on the fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices of pine, and let them boil gently till the syrup is tolerably thick ; then take out the pine, and lay it on a dish; mix with the sugar the juice of a couple of lemons, and pour it over the pine. Pine Apple Fromage Bavarois.* — Pare and cut a pine-apple into small pieces, which boil in half a pound of clarified sugar, and when the fruit is reduced to a pulp, rub it through a sieve, add the isin- glass, and proceed as directed. (See Fromage Bavarois.) Pine Apple Ice*—Put into a pan a pound of clarified sugar, boiled to petit lisse, in which lay a fine fresh pine-apple, nicely trimmed ; let it remain three hours, then add the juice of two lemons; strain this preparation through a bolting, pressing- it with a wooden spoon, that as much of the pulp may be rubbed through with it as possible ; add a glass of water, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Pine Apple Jelly.*—Pare and cut a fine ripe pine into quarters, trim each quarter of a round and long form ; take a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to lisse, add a pint of cold water, let it boil, skim, and then put in the pine; when it has boiled ten minutes, take out the round pieces, and put them aside, leaving the rest twenty minutes longer; then strain the liquor through a tammy, with the juice of threePIN 430 PIS lemons (also strained), and two ounces of clarified isinglass. Pour some of this jelly into a mould, cut tlie pine into small pieces, arrange them on it, and when set, pour on more jelly, then more pieces and more jelly, and so on till the mould is full. Pine Apple Jelly.—Put a pound of cla- rified sugar, boiled to the smooth degree, and nearly a pint of cold water, together on the fire; take a good ripe pine, pare off the rind, cut it into four quarters, and trim each quarter into round and long pieces; as soon as the sugar begins to boil, and has been skimmed, put in the pine ; when it has boiled about ten mi- nutes, take out the round pieces, lay them on a plate, and let the other pieces remain to boil twenty minutes longer. Take the rind off three lemons, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve into a basin, and when the pine has boiled enough, pour the liquor through a sieve to it, with two ounces of clarified isinglass. Put a little jelly into the mould first, then cut the pieces of pine into small round bits ; when that is set put more jelly, then more pine, and so continue till the mould is full. Pine Apple transparent Jelly*—Take a fine ripe, but perfectly sound, pine-apple, cut it into small pieces, which throw into boiling syrup ; when the fruit has had a few boils, take it from the fire ; and as soon as it becomes cool, strain it; add a sufficient quantity of caramel to give it a yellow tinge, then the juice of two le- mons, the isinglass, and finish as usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.') Pine Apple (Green) Preserved.—Choose a good-shaped pine, and having let it soak five or six days in salt and water, put it into a saucepan, with vine-leaves over and under it; fill the saucepan with salt and water, and let it stand on a slow fire till the fruit becomes green, then put it into a jar, and cover it with a thin cool syrup. The next day drain off the syrup, give it a boil, and then pour it over the pine-apple again with great care ; leave it thus for two months, after which make a rich syrup with two or three pounds of sugar ; add a little ginger, boil and skim it well, and when nearly cold, pour it over tho pine, previously drained ; tie the jar over tight, to exclude the air. PIN KS ( FrontageIlavorois).* 1 ake two ounces of pink flowers (the small red, sweet-scented ones), throw them into half a pound of clarified sugar (boiling), with ten cloves (bruised), and a pinch of cochi- neal ; cover the infusion, and before it is quite cold, strain, and add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass; stir and ice it as usual ; put the cream to it when it begins to thicken, and finish as directed. (See Promage Bavarois.) i Pinks (llatafa of).*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, a quart of clear river water, three pounds of sugar, two pounds of red pink flowers, and a drachm of cloves. Remove all the inferior parts of the flowers, and infuse the rest with the cloves in the brandy for two months, when strain it through a linen cloth ; dissolve the sugar in the water, then mix it with the brandy; filter and bottle it. PIPER (Baked).*—The fish, when thoroughly emptied and cleansed, is stuffed with the same ingredients, and dressed like baked jack or pike. Pipers (to dress).—They may be baked or boiled with a pudding well seasoned inside. If they are baked, a large cupful of rich broth should be put into the dish, and when done, take the broth, some es- sence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them together for sauce. Piper (Fillets of) a la Sejton.—Taka the flesh from a large piper, and cut into slices, all the same shape ; put these into a pan with clarified butter, pepper, and salt; fry them lightly, aud, when done, serve them. Make a sauce as follows: Put four spoonsful of the best vinegar, a small quantity of tarragon, and twenty peppercorns, into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and let it stand till reduced to a fourth ; then add two spoonsful of con- somme, six of sauce tournee, and reduce these also over a large fire ; strain and replace it; when it boils putin the yolks of two eggs, a bit of butter, and stir it well; pour this over tho fillets of piper when sent to table. This sauce must be quite white ; but if, by any chance, it should be browned, add a small quantity of cream. Season with salt and Cavenne. PISTACHIO Blancmange.* — Blanch four ounces of pistachios, pound them with half an ounce of preserved cedrat, dilute the paste with a glass of water, and then extract the milk by squeezing it reiy tight in a napkin ; mix with the milk six ounces of powder-sugar, and an ounceof isinglass. Take a pound of sweet almonds, pound them to a fine paste, which dilute with three glasses of water, extract the milk as above ; divide this into two parts, putting to one part the pistachio milk, an a small quantity of spinach essence ; anPIS PIS 431 i to the other, six ounces of sugar dissolved in a glass of warm water, and half an ounce of isinglass, and finish it according to the directions for Violet Jelly. Pistachio Biscottes.*—Mix together in a pan a quarter of a pound of powder- ! Sugar, the same of flour, well dried and sifted, aud the yolks of five eggs ; beat them for ten minutes, add two ounces of whole pistachios, and then spread it on a buttered baking-tin, ten inches long and five wide; lay it of an equal thickness, strew over two ounces of pistachios, cut crosswise ; put this in a gentle oven for forty or fifty minutes ; then take it out, and cut it into pieces two inches and i three-eighths long, and half an inch wide ; replace them in the oven to dry. Almonds or filberts may be used instead. Pistachio Biscuits.*■—Take a pound of ij pistachio nuts, two ounces of sweet al- i monds, the whites of sixteen, and yolks n of eight eggs, tvro ounces of flour, and a i pound of powder-sugar. Blanch and pound the pistachios and almonds, moistening ii occasionally with white of egg; beat the " whites and yolks separately, with the i| latter half the sugar, and some grated B lemon-peel; when both are thoroughly ! beaten join them together, beating con- stantly, and as you do so, sift over them ! the flour and remainder of the sugar, then i the almonds and pistachios. Have some < paper cases ready, into which pour your 1 preparation ; glaze, and bake the biscuits in a moderately heated oven. Pistachio Biscuits Soujflees.*—Blanch a quarter of a pound of pistachios, half of which cut in slices, and the other half mince small. Whip the whites of three eggs very firm, and then mix with them the sliced pistachios and half a pound of sifted sugar. Have ready a number of small paper cases, about an inch square; jj put your preparation into them, taking care they are not more than half full; sprinkle powder-sugar over, and as soon ; as that is dissolved, strew the minced i| pistachios, and put them into a gentle i oven, and colour them of a reddish yellow. Pistachio Cannellons.*—Peel six ounces ! of pistachios, and six bitter almonds, and pound them with an ounce of preserved 1 cedrat, and a little white of egg, to a fine 1 paste, to which add a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, to make it tolerably firm. Roll this paste on a sheet of paper to about tlie size of your finger, cut it into pieces two inches long, dip them into batter, and fry your cannellons to a nice colour, drain and sprinkle them with powder-sugar, and serve them. Pistachio Cream au Bain-marie.*— Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and eight bitter almonds; when reduced to a fine paste, put it into six glasses of boiling milk ; cover the infusion, but before it is quite cold squeeze the milk through a cloth. Mix in a pan ten ounces of powder-sugar with a spoonful of spinach essence strained ; then add a whole egg, ten yolks, and a grain of salt; pour the infusion to this, a little at a time, stir it well, run it through a sieve, and finish according to rule. (See Cream au Bain-marie.') Pistachio Cream Ice* — Blanch and wash half a pound of pistachios, and when perfectly dry, pound them to a fine paste, with a little cream and lemon-peel; put this paste into a skillet, with the yolks of nine eggs, and three quarters of a pound of powder-sugar; stir it in well, and add, by degrees, a quart of cream, and set it on a slow fire to simmer gently, and when sufficiently done, colour it with a little spinach-green ; then strain it, and when cold, ice it in the usual way. Pistachio Cream Pdtissiere * — Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, wash, and then pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and ten bitter almonds ; with this paste mix two spoonsful of spi- nach essence strained, six ounces of pow- der-sugar, four of filbert, or other maca- roons, and the cream properly prepared (see Cream Pdtissiere) ; beat it all up together, and finish as directed. Pistachio Whipped Cream.* — Your cream being whipped as usual (see Whip- ped Cream), mix with it six ounces of powder-sugar, two spoonsful of double rose or orange-flower water, dress your cream in a pyramidal form, and having peeled a quarter of a pound of pistachios, cut them in pieces, lengthwise, and stick them lightly on the surface of your pyra- mid. Pistachios (Fromage Bavarois of)*.— Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, and being well washed and drained, pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, or the rind of a lemon rasped on sugar, and eight bitter almonds blanched; when these are reduced to a fine paste, add to it two glasses of hot milk, and half a pound of powder-sugar; let this stand for about half an hour, then strain and add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a suffi-PIS PIS 432 cient quantity of spinach essence to make it of a delicate green colour ; put your preparation into a vessel set on ice, and when it begins to thicken, mix a whipped cream with it and finish it. (See Fromage Bavarois). Pistachios Glacdes a la Roy ale*—Peel three ounces of pistachios, diy them a little at the mouth of the oven ; when cold, glaze and finish them in the same manner as filberts, and almonds. (See the recipes.) These, however, should be grouped in sixes and eights. Pistachios (Gateau of').*—Set half a pint of milk on the fire, and mix with it a sufficient quantity of flour to make it the consistence of thick cream; when done, add to it a quarter of a pound of pistachios, the same of sweet almonds, both blanched and pounded to a fine paste, a pinch of dried orange flowers, three quarters of a pound of powder- sugar, four whole eggs, put in one at a time, the yolks of six, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; stir all these ingredients well, and having whipped the six whites, add them lightly, colour it with a little spinach green, and pour the whole preparation into a well buttered mould ; put it into a hot oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour, then draw it out, turn it on a dish, and serve. Pistachio,'small Gateaux*—Make three quarters of a pound of puff paste, to which give ten turns, and roll it into two layers, each thirteen inches long, and eight wide, put one of these on a baking-tin (previously wetted), spread over it, of an equal thickness, a cold pis- tachio cream to within three quarters of an inch of the edges, moisten them, and cover the cream with the other layer; press the two layers together, dorez the top lightly, and with the point of a knife mark on it seven lines, each two and a quarter inches apart; across these, mark five lines, three inches apart, which will make twenty-four cakes; put it into a brisk oven, but do not glaze till the under side of the paste is of a clear yellow. When cold, divide the cakes according to the lines, and trim them neatly. If you wish to have these g&tenux still more delicate, strew over them, before they are baked, either almonds or filberts, blanched and chopped small, and mixed with sugar and white of egg. Pistachio Ire .* —Take three pints of milk and one pint of cream, half a pound of pistachios, which blanch and pound to a fine paste, adding milk to them occa- sionally to prevent their oiling; when well pounded, dilute the paste with half the remaining portion of the milk, and squeeze it through a cloth, wringing as tight as possible. P ut a saucepau on the fire, in which is the cream and the rest of the milk, a pound of sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; stir these ingredients over the fire till tolerably thick; then add the pistachio milk, give the whole one boil, and strain it. When quite cold, colour it with spinach essence, and freeze it as directed. (See Ice.) Pistachio Marchpane*—Put a pound and a half of pistachios into a mortar, pound them, moistening with white of egg, to a very fine paste; in the mean- time clarify the same quantity of sugar, boil it to petit boule; then take the pan from the fire, put in the pistachios, stir them together well, replace the pan on hot ashes, continually stirring, till the paste is of a proper consistence, then pour it ou a slab well sprinkled with sugar ; as soon as it is cold, cut it into whatever forms your fancy may dictate. Pistachio Meringues *—Take a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, three ounces of powder-sugar, and the whites of six eggs; blanch the pistachios, and having dried them thoroughly in a stove or oven, pound them with white of egg to a very smooth paste. Beat up the whites of eggs, add the sugar, and set them on hot ashes for a short time, removing the pan occasionally, and stirring constantly; then add the pounded pistachios, and when the whole is thoroughly incorporated, put some sheets of paper on tin plates, and lay the meringues with a spoon half an inch apart; sprinkle very finely sifted sugar over, and bake them in a cool oven ; when done, raise them from the paper with a knife, place them on sieves in a stove, to preserve them dry. Pistachio Petits Fours.*—Put into a pan half a pound of powder-sugar, half the white of a large egg, and a sufficient quantity of spinach essence strained, to tinge the glaze of a delicate green ; add a few drops of essence of lemon, and beat up the whole for a few minutes, when the glaze will be tolerably firm, but smooth; roll it in slips about the thickness of a little finger ; cut these into dice, which roll in the hollow of your hand, taking care to moisten them sufficiently to ma e their surface clear and shining, P ™ce them on a sheet of thick paper, threePLO 433 PLA 2 F I quarters of an incli apart, and put tliem i in the oven. Pistachio Petits Pots* — Have ready ten small moulds ; take a sufficient quan- tity of cream to fill them, and put it into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; give it a hoil, and then ; having blanched and pounded a quarter of a pound of pistachios to a fine paste, pour the cream on it, hoil them together once, and let them get cold. Put four yolks and one whole egg into a saucepan, put the cold cream to it, mix them to- gether, and when it has boiled once, pour it into the moulds, which place in the bain-marie to set. Pistachios Souffle (Fran^aise of').*— Take half a pound of pistachios, two ounces of preserved cedrat, and two drachms of bitter almonds blanched; pound these well; infuse them in nine glasses of boiling milk for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then strain it through a napkin into the usual preparation. Just before the whites of eggs are put in, add to the whole a sufficient quantity of spinach essence, to tinge it of a delicate green: finish as usual. (See Souffles Francaise). Glaze with powder sugar only. Pistachio Tourte*—Mix the yolks of four eggs with some rice flower, dried orange flowers chopped, cream and sugar: set these on the fire, stirring constantly ; in half an hour take it off, add four ounces of pounded pistachios, and a little pre- served lemon peel; put this preparation into a raised rich puff paste, and lay over it a kind of trellis work, or any other kind of ornament with paste, and colour it lightly in the oven. Pistachio Wafers.* — Dilute half a pound of brioche paste with half a glass of Madeira wine, and then stir into it three ounces of powder sugar, and two ounces of dry currants : spread this pre- ' paration over a well buttered tin to the thickness of half an inch, and put it in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour ; when done, cut it in pieces two inches square ; I glaze, and cover them lightly witli minced | pistachios. PLAICE [an excellent way to dress a 1 large one.)—Sprinkle it well with salt, and I keep it for four-and-twenty hours ; then ' wash it, and wipe it dry, do it over with egg, and then with bread crumbs; then make boiling hot some lard, lay in the fish, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley and anchovy sauce. You may, if you choose, previously dip the fish in vinegar. Plaice with Dutch Sauce.—Prepare the plaice in exactly the same manner as soles, with mushrooms; when well drained from the liquor, lay them on a dish, and pour over them a Dutch sauce. Plaice a l Espagnole.—-Prepare it the same as for Dutch sauce, only, instead of pouring over it a Dutch sauce, it must be a good strong sauce a I’espagnole, with more lemon juice than usual; a few mushrooms added would be a great im- provement. PLOVERS (to choose).—Choose them by the hardness of the vent, which shows that they are fat; and when new, they are limber looted. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowls. There are three sorts; the grey, green, and bastard plover or lapwing. Plovers (Boiled).—They should be boiled in a good celery sauce, white or brown ; or they may be roasted like any other fowl, with good gravy in the dish. Plovers (Capilotade of).*—Take three or four cold roasted plovers, cut them in halves, skin and trim them ; put them into a stewpan, with some Italianne, a glass of white wine, and seasoning to the palate. Set them on the fire, and when they have simmered an hour, dish them, with slices of fried bread between. Skim the liquor, add the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the birds. Plovers (to dress). — Green plovers should be dressed the same as woodcocks, without drawing, and served on a toast. Grey plovers should be stewed.—Make a foicemeat with the yolks of two hard Gg’g’s bruised, some marrow cut fine, artichoke bottoms cut small, and sweet herbs, sea- soned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg: stuff the birds, and put them into a sauce- pan, with just a sufficient quantity of good gravy to cover them, one glass of white wine, and a blade of mace; cover them close, and let them stew very gently till they are tender ; then take up the plovers, lay tliem in a dish, keep them hot; put a piece of butter rolled in flour to thicken the sauce, let it boil till smooth ; squeeze into it a little lemon ; skim it, and pour it over the plovers. Plovers an Gratia*—Pick, clean, and singe four plovers; make a farce with their intestines (except the gizzard), minced, and mixed with half the quantity of grated bacon, a little shred parsley and shalots, salt and pepper, fill the plovers with this ;PLU PLU 434 lay a gratin (see that article) on your dish to about the thickness of an inch, place the plovers on it, and fill the spaces between them with the same; raise the gratin round, but take care not to cover the breast with it; lay slices of bacon over the whole, and set it over a moderate fire, with rather a brisk one at the top ; when done, drain off all the fat, and serve them with an Ilalienne. Plovers a la Pcrigueux *—Put four plo- vers into a stewpan, with a dozen whole truffles (skinned), a bouquet, some basil, salt, and pepper ; give them a few turns in a little butter, and then add a glass oi champagne, and six ladiesful of reduced espagnole, skim it well, and when done, take out the birds and truffles, place them on a dish, the truffles at the top ; reduce the sauce, add the juice of a lemon, and serve it. . Plovers (Roasted').—Make a, farce with the intestines of four plovers, as directed for plovers au gratin, stuff the birds with this farce, sew it in, and fasten them on skewers; cover them with slices of bacon, and wrap them in paper; fix the skewers to a spit, and roast the birds. When quite done, unfasten and disli them. Serve with a ragout of truffles poured over them. Plover’s Eggs.—Boil them ten minutes, and serve them on a napkin either hot or cold. PLUMS in Brandy*—Take twelve pounds of fine magnum bonum plums, and three pounds of sugar; the fruit should be turned in colour, but not ripe ; prick, and put them into a saucepan with cold water, set them on the fire ; when the water boils and the plums rise, take them out carefullv with a skimmer, and put them into a pan of cold water; clarify and boil the sugar to ■petit lisst, put the plums to it, and give them a boil; the two succeeding days, drain off and boil the syrup, first alone, and afterwards with the fruit; the third day drain the plums, and put them into bottles; then boil the syrup to la nappe, and when cold, add to it three fourths of its quantity of the best brandy, stir it well, strain and pour the mixture over the plums. Cork the bottles tight. Green- gage plums are done like apricots. (See Apricots in Brandy.) c Plums (Candied).-CXtooso your fruit of a nice shapo and good size ; cut them in halves, lay them on a large shnllow dish, strew powder sugar over, and put them into a moderate oven, tightly closed , in half an hour’s time, take them out, a place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. Plums (Clear Cakes of).—Pill a jar with the wdiite pear plums, set it in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire ; when suffi- ciently done, let the clear juice run from it, and to every pint of it add an equal quantity of sugar, boiled to candy height; put the juice to the syrup, set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till the whole is quite hot, but not boiling ; then pour it into glasses, and dry the cakes in a stove. Plum Cream.—This is made in the same manner as peach cream, and made with the magnum bonum; the other kinds will do, but the first mentioned is best. Plums (Fromage Bavarois).*—fake the stones from an hundred small, or thirty-six laro’e plums, make a marmalade of them, with half a pound of clarified sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, mix the isinglass in, and proceed as usual. (See Fromage | Bavarois.) 1 Plums with Almonds (Gimblettes of). — These are made in the same manner as other gimblettes (see Peach Gimblettes); only that plum-marmalade and sweet al- monds, blanched, are used instead of peach- marmalade and pistachios. Plums in Jelly.—When the plums are preserved in their first sugar, dram and strain the syrup through a jelly bag. lake some ripe plums and codlins, put them into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them; set them on the fire and I when quite soft, press out the juice and strain it, and for every pint of juice, boil a pound of sugar to souffle; boil the juice a little, then add the syrup and plums, and boil all together. Fake it off, and when it has settled a little, skim and pour it into glasses. A little scraped ginger, soaked in water for two or three days, and boiled with the above, imparts a fine fla- vour to the jelly. Plums (Marmalade of).* — lake six pounds of plums, and four pounds of sugar; stone, and put the fruit into a cullender, bent it through with a wooden pestle into a preserving pan, which set on the fire, to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly, m the mean time, clarify and boil the sugar to petit casse, then mix it with the fruit (still on the fire), stir it till the whole is of the consistence of jelly, then take 1 o , and pour the marmalade into pots. If the plums are not quite npe, uiey must be boiled once or twice before ffiey are pressed through the cullen er. ^PLU POM 435 2 f2 of the kernels may be added, if approved; I they should he pounded before putting in ! the marmalade. ! Plums (to pickle like Olives).—Take the plums before they are quite ripe, and put them into a saucepan with white wine vi- negar, salt, water-fennel seed, and dill, as much of each as will impart a flavour to the pickle; when it boils put in the plums, let it boil again, then take it oflf; let it i stand till cold, then put them into jars. Plum-Bu(/s (to pickle).—Gather some plum-buds, and put them into boiling salt and water ; when they have boiled, before they are tender, take them out, drain the water from them, when cold add some white-wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace, and a little whole pepper; put these into the pickle and leave it; in about eight or nine days, boil them again a few times, taking care not to let them get soft; when cold, put the whole into jars, and tie them down. Plums preserved dry. — Gather the plums when full grown and just turning colour, prick and put them into a saucepan of cold water, set them on the fire until the water is on the point of boiling ; then take them out, drain and boil them well in some clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil them again; if they shrink and will not take the sugar, prick them as they lay in the pan, and then give them another boil, skim and set them by : the next day, add some more sugar, boiled to souffle, to the fruit and syrup, then do them together; place them in a stove till next day, when drain the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a little powder sugar over, and dry them in a stove. Plums preserved liquid.* — Gather the plums green, firm, and when the stone i may be extracted with ease; cut the ! stalks close, and prick the fruit in several places, especially round the stalk ; then place them in a saucepan of water over the fire, and as soon as the water is ready to boil, take the saucepan from the fire: in four-and-twenty hours, replace the plums in the same water on a gentle fire, with a small quantity of verjuice to preserve their colour. Keep the water hot, without allowing it to boil, for three hours, stirring it occasionally; when the fruit is perfectly green, increase the heat till the plums rise to the surface, when they must be taken out and thrown into cold water, which i change frequently till the plums are per- I fectly cold; then drain them. Put the fruit in some sugar boiled to la nappe, boil 'them up a few times, adding a little water ; skim, and then pour the whole into a pan; the next two days drain off the syrup, and increase the degree of boiling each day; the third and fourth days boil the fruit with the syrup, keeping them covered, and increasingthe degree, until the last time it reaches to perld. Put the preserve into pots, and place them for two days in a stove. The same fruit may be preserved dry also. The operation is the same, but the syrup is drained off, and the plums laid on tin plates before they are put into the stove. Plum Pudding.*—Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, pour over them a sufficient quantity of boiling milk to soak them; when quite soft, beat the bread up with half a pound of clarified suet, half a pound'of raisins stoned, half a pound of currants, sugar to the taste, five eggs well beaten, candied orange, lemon and citron, and a few bitter almonds, pounded ; lemon peel shred fine, nutmeg, and fine spices, pounded; mix the ingredients thoroughly, add a cup of brandy, pour it into a dish, and bake it. When done, turn it out, and strew powder sugar over. These ingredients make as good a pud- ding boiled. Take care to flour well the cloth or mould used for this purpose. Few things require more boiling than a plum-pudding; be careful, therefore, to let it be sufficiently done ; four hours will be enough. PGEL EE.*—Take two pounds of veal, two pounds of bacon, two large carrots and three onions ; cut all these into dice* and put them into a stewpan, with a pound of butter, the juice of three or four lemons, four cloves, two bay leaves bruised, a little thyme, salt, and pepper; set it over a good fire, and when pretty well reduced, add a ladleful of pot-top ; as soon as the whole is about half done, take it off and set by for use. POIVRADE *—Put into a stewpan a large bunch of parsley leaves, some shalots, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, a dessert- spoonful of fine white pepper, a glass of vinegar, and a small quantity of butter; set the pan on the fire, and reduce the whole till nearly all gone, when add twn ladiesful of espagnole, and one of stock; reduce these again to the proper con- sistence, and strain it for use. POMEGRANATE Clear Cakes.—Para some good boiling npples, and put them it to a saucepan with as much water a436 POR POR will cover them, set them on the fire, and when perfectly soft, press the pulp through a sieve, and then strain it. Boil this jelly with the juice of two or three pomegra- nates, that of one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of each grated; strain it again, and to every pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter of fine sugar, boiled till it cracks; colour it with cochineal; pour it into glasses, talcing off the scum before it becomes cold. Set them in a stove, and when the top is dry, turn them out, and put them to dry again ; then cut them into whatever forms you please, put them into the stove or oven to harden, then lay them on sieves, and when tho- roughly dry, place them in bores, with paper between. As they are apt to be- come moist, they should be looked at frequently. Pomegranates (Transparent Jelly oj Take the seeds from five very fine pome- granates, from which extract the juice by pressing it hard through a horsehair sieve ; filter this juice, and mix it with some syrup tinged of a rose colour, with a little cochineal; add the isinglass to this, and finish as usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.') Pomegranates (Syrup of)." Take five very ripe large pomegranates, extract the seeds, which must he very red ; crush, cincl put them into u skillet witli lmlf ft pint of water; set them on the fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice through a new coarse cloth; clarify a pound and a half of sugar, and boil it to souffle ; then add the juice, boil them together to the usual consistence of syrups. It must not he bottled until quite cold. This number of pomegranates will yield a quart ot syrup. , . . PORK (to choose).—If the pork is fresh, the flesh appears cool and smooth : if tainted, it is clammy; the knuckle, in general, is affected first. There is a kind of pork called measly; when in this state it is extremely unwholesome to eat; hut you may easily discover when it is measly, the fat being impregnated with small ker- nels. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily ho impressed hv the finger, it is old Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best, The prime season for pork is from Michael- mas to March. Bacon-hogs and porkers are cut up dif- ferently. Hogs are kept to a larger size; the chine, or backbone, should he cut down on each side, the whole length, and is either boiled or roasted; the chine is considered the prime part. The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. There is a large spare-rib on each side, which is generally divided into two, one sweetbone, and one bladehone. The bacon is the whole out- side, and contains a fore-leg and a ham ; the latter is the hind-leg, hut if left with the bacon, it is called a gammon. There are also the griskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter and less rich, hut not equally tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter consists of the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the spare-rib and griskin. Ihe hind con- sists of the leg and loin. A variety of nice dishes may he made of the feet of pork; they should he cut off before the legs are cured. The same may he observed with the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair; and is sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. Pork (Bladehone of). — It should he broiled, and when nearly done, peppered and salted. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spooniul of mustard, and serve it very hot. The bladehone is taken from the bacon- hog ; the less meat left on it, in modera- tion, the better. Pork Cheese.*—Take a pig’s head, and having boned it, cut all the meat into rather thick slices; do the same with the ears; separate the fat from the lean, and mix the whole with bay leaf, thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred fine), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spices, the peel and juice of a lemon ; lay the skin of the head open over a salad-howl; arrange the pieces in it, intermixing with them a little leaf, tongue, a Vicariate, and truffles; when all are put in, wrap the skiu round them ; sew it up very tight, and dress it as directed for hog’s head; when sufficiently done, take it from the fire, and whilst warm, put it in a mould to give it any shape you may desire. . « Pork Cheese (Italian).*—Pound a pigJ liver, with two thirds bacon and one 'lurd leaf; when they are thoroughly incorpo- rated, add to them shred thyme, sage, basil, hay leaf, parsley, coriander, spices, ,a™ S (pounded), grated nutmeg, salt, an P PPOR 437 POR per. Line a mould with caul, into winch [put the above preparation; cover it with thin slices of bacon, and bake it. When done, leave it to cool in the mould. PonK Chitterlings*—Take the fat guts I of a pig, wash and cut them into such lengths as you may desire, and then put them into vinegar and water, with thyme, bay-leaf, and basil, for twelve hours ; after which chop up a part of the above, some fresh pork and leaf; and season them with salt, pepper, four kinds of spices, and a little anise in powder; put these into the remaining guts, so as to fill them about i two-thirds, tie them up, and boil them in equal quantities of water and milk, to which add salt, thyme, basil, and bay leaf. When done, leave them to cool in the liquor; they must be broiled before they are sent to table. Pork Fritters*—Are made in the same manner as veal fritters ; the pig’s fry makes the best. They should be fried in olive- oil, and made of a lighter colour than other fritters. Pork Grishin.—Pork griskin is in ge- neral extremely hard : the best way to prevent this is by putting it into a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover it, and let it boil up; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven; it will be : done in a few minutes. It should be : rubbed all over with butter, and then floured before it is put to the fire. Pork {Hashed) and Onions *—Cut a cold roasted chine of pork into small slices; i clear away all the sldn, and take fifteen i large onions, cut them in halves ; take the hearts, and cut them into half rings ; fry them lightly; drain and put them into a ! stewpan, with two spoonsful of consomme • when reduced to a glaze, add the meat, and four spoonsful of espagnole. Make it hot, without boiling; putin some butter, i and serve it. Pork (to pickle).—The quantities must be proportioned to the middlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being taken off. Mix and pound fine four ounces of salt- petre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it < for twenty-four hours; then rub with the ' above ingredients; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up tho spaces with common salt. Place laige pebbles on the pork, to prevent it from swimming 1 in the pickle which the salt will produce. If kept from the air, it will continue good for two years. Pork (Pickled).*—Take the breast or belly-parts of a pig; cut it in pieces, each of which rub well with fine salt and a little saltpetre ; put them, one on another, into a jar, as close as possible; fill up all the interstices with salt, cover the jar with a cloth, and close the jar tight. Leave the pork thus for a week or ten days, and then they may be served as you please. Pork Pie.—Cut into chops a piece of loin of pork, with the rind and part of the under-bone cut off; season them with pepper and salt, cover them with puff- paste, bake the pie, and when ready to be served, put in some cullis, with the es- sence of two onions, and a little mustard mixed with it. Pork Pie.—Make a short paste, the same as for tarts ; butter a large deep copper mould (or a stewpan will do) round the bottom and sides, place the paste tolerably thick, and having strewed the pork with pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg, place it in the crust with the gravy over it; cover it in with a good crust on the top, garnish it over with leaves, egg it, and bake it in a moderate oven : when done, take it out, letting it stand in the mould till cold ; and having stewed some odd bits of pork, or bones, for gravy, reduce it till it becomes tolerably strong, turn the pie out of the mould, and pour in the gravy. If you should not happen to have any bits of pork, beef will do to make the gravy. It must not be cut till thoroughly cold; the odd pieces near the spare-rib, the kidneys, &c. will do very well for this pie ; the less bone, the better it will cut. Pork Pie (Cheshire).—Skin a loin of pork, cut it into steaks; season it with salt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good crust; put into the dish first a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins, pared and cored, and a little sugar, sufficient to sweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork; put in half a pint of white wine, some butter on the top, and close your pie ; if it is a large one, it will require a pint of wine. Pork (Potted).—Cut the meat from a leg of pork into pieces, pound it very well in a mortar, season it well with salt and pepper; then mix the meat with rosemary and sage, shred small; put it into a pot to bake with a pound of butter; when it comes out of the oven, drain it from the gravy, and press it down close in a dry438 FOR POE. pot. Then, haying skimmed off all the butter from your gravy, clarify as much more hutter as will cover the meat an inch thick in the pot; cover the pot with wet paper, and set it in a cool place. Pork (with Suit).*—Take any joint of fresh killed pork you like, sprinkle it with coarse salt and spices; the next day spit, and roast it, hasting with its own gravy; take care that it is thoroughly done. Serve with whatever sauce or garnish you please. Some persons lard it with green sage before it is roasted. Pork (Fresh) Sauce *—Cut two or three good-sized onions into slices, and fry them lightly in oil; then add two spoonsful of cullis, a little broth, a few mushrooms, chopped, a clove of garlic, vinegar and spice. Let it boil half an hour, reduce to a proper consistence, skim and strain Pork Sausages.—Take two pounds of lean pork, three pounds of chine tat, free from sldn, some sage leaves, chopped fine, pounded cloves, pepper and salt; beat it fine, and either press it into hot pots, and roll it when it is used, or put it into BKIIIO. , Pork Sausages* — Take one third fat, and two thirds lean fresh pork, chop it well, hut not too fine; season with salt, pepper and spices, and put it into a pan, which set on hot ashes for half an hour ; clean the guts thoroughly, tie one end, and fill the above, gradually, pressing them gently that the meat may descend to the bottom ; divide, and tie them in what lengths you please. Pork Sausages.—Take porlc in which there is more fat than lean, mince it with parsley and young onions, and season with salt and fine spices; put the whole into the gut of a calf or pig, tie the sausages of a proper length, and broil them ; you may o-ive them any flavour you think proper, with truffles, shalots, &c. If with truffles, mince them with the meat according to the quantity you choose; if with shalots, you must use very little, for fear the taste should predominate too much. Flat sau- sages are made in the samo manner, with this difference, that the meat is put into a pig’s maw. Some persons add a glass of white wino to the sausage meat when mixing. . , _ , - Pork Sausages.—Take eight pounds of lean pork, free from gristle and skin; shred and chop it very fine, then chop four pounds of beef suet, and four pounds of pork fat, shred extremely fine, and a good handful of sage; spread the meat out upon a large dish, and shake sage over it; grate in two nutmegs, add a spoonful of salt, and about three spoonsful of sweet herbs, very finely chopped; shake over it the pork fat and the suet, then mix all well together; pot it close down with paper over it. It will be much better for letting it stand a day or two. AVhen you wish to make them up, roll them about the size of a sausage, (lip them in egg, and then roll them in flour ; have some hutter on the fire, and when very hot, put them in, shaking them about nearly the whole time, till they are done of a fine colour ; then serve them hot to table. If you choose you may put them into skins, taking care that they are very clean, filling them very gently with a funnel, other- wise they may stand a chance of being broken these are best for garnishing a turkey. I Pork Sausage to eat cold. — Season fat I and lean pork with salt, saltpetre, black ; pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub it into the meat; ihe sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalots, or garlic, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox gut, that has been scoured, salted, and well soaked, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it up to smoke, the same as a ham, first wrapping it in a fold or two of muslin. It must be high dried. Some persons eat it without boiling, others prefer it boiled. The skin should be tied in several places, so as to make each linkf about eight or nine inches long. Pork (Spring or Forehand oj ). I ake out the bone ; then sprinkle over the inside some salt, pepper, and sage, dried ; but first warm a little hutter to baste; then flour it, roll it up tightly and tie it; then roast ' Pork (Chine of).*—Cut this piece as square as possible, and leave the fat on it an inch thick, score it, and skewer it into proper form, roast it for two hours : serve it with tomata, piquante, or Robert SAUC6. j Pork (Chine of) roasted. —If parted down the hack bone, so as to have but one side, it will take two hours to roast before a good fire ; but if not parted it will take three hours. . , ,, ., , Chines are usually salted and boded. Pork (Chine of) stuffed.—lake a ch of pork that has hung four or finders, cut some holes in the lean, a” ‘ , with a little of the leaf fat, chopped ex-POR 439 POR tremely small, some parsley, thyme, a , small quantity of sage, and shalots, cut very fine, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; it should be stuffed pretty thick, and served with good gravy in the dish. Apple sauce should be served with it. Pork Chops (Broiled).—Broil them in the same manner as mutton chops, but they require more doing. Put a little , good gravy to them, and strew over a little sage, shred very fine, which very : much improves the flavour. Pork Chops en Ragout*—Cut a loin or ■ neck of fresh pork into chops, and stew them with a little stock, a bunch of herbs, 1 pepper, and salt have ready a veal sweet- i bread, parboiled, and cut into large dice ; put it into a stewpan with some mush- i rooms, the livers of any land of poultry, i and a small quantity of butter, set it on the fire with some flour, a glass of white Ewine, a little gravy, and a little stock ; add salt and coarse pepper, a bunch of l parsley and green onions, a clove of gar- . He, and two cloves ; let the whole boil, ! and reduce to a thick sauce, and serve it i' over the chops ; or you may dress the li chops in the same manner as the ragout, i and when rather more than half done, add the sweetbread, livers, and mushrooms. Pork Cutlets.—Take a loin of pork and skin it, then divide it into cutlets; strew over them some parsley and thyme, cut small, with pepper, salt, and grated bread; broil them of a fine brown; have ready some good gravy, a spoonful of ready- made mustard, two shalots shred small; boil all these together over the fire, | thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour; if agreeable, add a little vinegar. Serve the cutlets in a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. Pork Cutlets (Broiled).—Cut the pork ’ drops the same as veal cutlets, leaving a little fat on them; beat them to flatten them into a good shape ; broil them, and when thoroughly done, serve with a sauce !' Robert, or gherkins. Pork Cutlets with red or white Cabbage. —Take a back piece of pork, cut it into cutlets, beat and triin them, season with pepper and salt, gently broil them till done; they must be of a nice light brown colour. Serve them on red or white cabbage stewed. Pork Cutlets another way. —Cut the cutlets from the fore loin, neatly trim them; chop an onion fine, fry it lightly in three ounces of butter, sprinkle the cutlets with i pepper and salt, dip them into the butter, then into bread crumbs, shape them pro- perly with your knife and fry them of a nice brown colour ; serve with tomata or Robert sauce. Pork (Fillet oJ“) roasted.—Take a piece of ba6k pork, cut the chine bone from the under part, and let it lay in a marinade all night; when to be roasted, run a lark-spit through, tie it on another spit, cover it with paper, and roast it gently ; and when to be served up, if not coloured enough, glaze it lightly, and serve it with a sauce Robert underneath. The skin should be off. Pork (Neck of) rolled. — Take a neck of pork and remove out all the bones ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and a few berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and let it roast slowly, placing it at first a good distance from the fire. Pork (Leg of) barbicued. — Put a leg of pork before the fire to roast, put a good deal of red wine into the dripping pan, and baste it well all the time it is roasting ; if there is not enough port at first, add more; it will take about three pints; cut the skin from the bottom of the shank in rows of an inch broad ; raise every other row, and roll it to the shank; have ready a pint of strong gravy, and add to it a pint of red wine, a couple of anchovies, a bundle of sweet herbs, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with a quar ter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, and two spoonsful of ketchup ; let the gravy and wine be well boiled together, and the anchovy with it; strain these off, and add the other ingredients ; let them boil a few minutes ; froth the pork, take it up, pour part of the sauce over it, and put the rest into a boat; if not thick enough, add some roux. Pork (Leg of) boiled.—Take a leg of pork that has been in salt eight or ten days ; when it is to be dressed, weigh it ; let it soak for half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up ; as soon as it boils, skim it, and so continue. Allow water enough. It should be boiled in a cloth, nicely floured, this adds much to the delicacy of its appearance. The pork should be small, and of a fine grain. Serve peas pudding and turnips with it. Pork (Leg of) broiled.—Skin part of the fillet, cut it into thin slices, hack it on the back with a knife, then season with salt and pepper, sage and thyme, minced small; then broil thorn on a gridiron, dish them. ,440 POT POT and let tlieir sauce he butter, vinegar, and mustard. Pork (Leg nf) roasted.—Make choice of a small leg of fine young pork ; with a sharp knife cut a slit in the knuckle, and fill the space with chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt. When half roasted, score the skin in slices, being careful not to cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce should be served to eat with it. PonK (Shoulders and Breasts oj).—Put them into pickle, or the shoulder may be salted as a leg; when they are very nice, they may be roasted. Porker’s Headt (to roast').—Take a fine young head, thoroughly clean it, and put bread and sage the same as for pig ; sew it up tight, and roast it like a pig, and serve it with the same sauce as for pig. POTAGE a l’ Anglaise.*—Take carp, perch, pike, smelts, or any other fish you choose, cut them into pieces, add a few oysters ; put all these into fish-broth, and simmer over a moderate fire till sufficiently done, and the meat separates from the bones ; then let the liquor run through a sieve, remove the bones, and rub the fish to a purde, also through the sieve ; soak bread as usual in the broth, cover the slices with thepmhe, and fill your tureen. Potage a to Chartres*—Soak three or four veal sweetbreads in warm water; then scald and put them into a saucepan with one or two cocks’ combs (also scalded), abunch of parsley, green shalots, a few mushrooms, two cloves, and some good stock, set the whole on a slow fire; cut and soak your bread as usual, put it into the tureen, and when the above arti- cles are sufficiently done, add them to the bread with a proper quantity of the broth, and serve. Potage d la Condd.*—Boil a quartern of scarlet beans in some stock; add to them two carrots, two onions, two cloves ; when they are quite done, strain them through a sieve, and pour your puree into a soup-tureen on some pieces of fried bread. Potage d la Courte Bouillon.—Prepare some ham, beef, and veal, in a stewpan, with spice and vegetables, as directed for Soup de Santa, and fill it up with consomme, and about one bottle of sherry; when the meat is well done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a pan or basin ; have some car- rots and celery prepared the same as for vegetable soup, blanched and stewed in stronfT consomme, likewise five or six fino cabbage lettuces, done whole, and stewed as carrots and celery; two dozen small onions must be fried brown, and put into the soup-pot with the other vegetables; when they are properly stewed, pour the soup from the basin over them, and let them simmer gently by the side of the stove for four hours, skimming whenever it is required. Put the crust of two French rolls, cut round, and fried of a light brown, in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Potage a la Creep.*—Take six large carrots, four turnips, six onions, three, heads of celery, four leeks, cut them in pieces, and put them into a saucepan with some butter and a lump of sugar; give them a few tarns over the fire, and then moisten them with stock, in which let them simmer for two hours, mb the vege- tables through a tammy cloth, add a little pepper, salt, and sugar, clarify your puree, which may not be too thick; soak your bread, as usual, in rich stock; pour the potage into the tureen, and serve it. Potage d la Geauffret.*—Roast ten or j a dozen potatoes on hot ashes, and having | peeled them, remove all those parts which may be hard or crisp, and pound the re- mainder dry; then add the breasts of tour fowls, and a quarter of a pound of butter, pound these with the potatoes; when it has become a smooth paste, put to it the yolks of eight eggs; beat them up with the rest, season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; if your paste be too thick, add a suf- ficient quantity of double cream to make it of the proper consistence to make into balls, which poach, either in broth or salt water, and a small quantity of butter; in about half an hour take them out, drain, mid having filled your tureen with good broth, put in the balls and serve it. Potage 5 la Kusel.*—Take thirty carrots, | as many turnips and small onions, twenty leeks, ten heads of celery (the two latter cut about an inch long), six lettuces. Put the above (except the lettuces) into some i stock, and boij them, braise the latter be- tween two slices of bacon; when done, put them with the other vegetables into a soup-tureen without any bread. Potage d la Polacre.* — lake some boiled potatoes, peel and cut them into slices; put a handful of chopped fennel into some good stock, set it on the fire, let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and having put the potatoes into a soup-tureen, pour the broth on them and serve. Potage, Printannier, or Chifonade. Take twenty young carrots, as many tur- nips, small'onions, and leeks, cut them | i j J 1 (POT 441 POT into pieces with a root-cutter, blanch them; put them into a saucepan with some good i consommC, cook the above roots in this, putting in the onions last; add to these some young peas, sorrel, lettuces (cut small),young broad beans, asparagus heads, French beans, and cucumbers,cut in pieces; boil all these with the first-mentioned arti- cles, a lump of sugar, and a pinch of salt " and shred parsley. Reduce the whole to a glaze ; serve it, either with or without bread, in a puree of green peas or some good consomme. Potage a la Heine*—Take three or four cold roast chickens, cut off all the meat, and pound it well with two table-spoonsful of rice (previously boiled in water for a quarter of an hour), dilute it with some >, good consomme, and strain it; then add a sufficient quantity of consomme to the puree to make it of the requisite consistence; put the hones of the chickens into the above, and let it simmer over a small fire - for two hours ; about a quarter of an hour 1 before dinner pour some of it over tire bread to soak it as usual; just before serv- ing, strain the whole through a fine sieve. Potage a la Reine. — Another way. Take the meat from two cold fowls, well pound it together with the yolks of eight hard eggs, and the crumb of two French rolls previously soaked in milk ; boil a few blades of mace and two heads of celery in some white stock, strain this to the fowl, and rub it through a tammy; set it in the bain-marie, and add sugar and salt to j taste; just before sending to table, pour in , three gills of boiling cream. You may j serve either rice, Italienne paste, or vermi- 1 celli, previously boiled in the soup. Potage a la Sainte Men6hould*— For '• this potage you must have eight or nine clear carrots, scraped, cut in quarters, and I the inside white taken out, then boil it i with six heads of celery in a stewpan of i water with a spoonful of salt, till perfectly I tender; put them in a sieve for a few mi- | nutes, then stir them in a stewpan with i two ounces of butter, on a slow fire, for a quarter of an hour, with a little salt, a small lump of sugar, and one handful of peppercorns; when they are well washed, put in a ladleful of good veal gravy or espair- nole, and when it boils rub it through* a j tammy; add a pint more of the gravy I when die whole is put into the soup pot, . till within one hour of the dinner, then i place it on the stove to boil gently; hav- I ing some vegetables prepared the same as ; i in vegetable soup, well stewed down in a quart of good consomme, put them in the puree for ten minutes; before serving, skim and stir it gently, then pour it in the tureen. Potage a la Viennet*—Take some slices of crumb, about half an inch thick, cut them into squares, ovals, or circles, ac- cording to your fancy ; they must, how- ever, be all of the same shape and size, twenty or thirty are sufficient; fry them in a quarter of a pound of butter over a brisk fire ; when they are of a nice colour, lay them on a cloth to drain, then put them into a soup-tureen, and ten minutes before you serve, pour on them any sort of clear puree you may think proper. Potage a la Xavier.*-—Take a pound of flour, six yolks, two whole eggs, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of stock or broth to make the above into a thin paste, to which add a spoonful of shred parsley, some grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and mix them well. Pour some good stock or broth into a saucepan till about three parts full, set it on the fire, and when it boils take a skimmer, through which rub the above-mentioned paste; he careful to keep it constantly boiling, that the paste may stiffen, and skim it well. A quarter of an hour is sufficient time to do this potage. POTATOES a, la Anglaise*Having- well washed as many potatoes as you may require, boil them in salt and water; when nearly done, pare and cut them into slices, then put them into some melted butter, and fry them lightly; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; serve them dry. Potatoe Cheesecakes*—Pare and boil thoroughly half a pound of the best kind of potatoes; when quite done, rub them through a sieve, and mix with them two eggs well beaten, a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a paste, a few cur- rants, a little spice, and grated bread. Lay this on puff-paste, like other cheesecakes, and hake. Potatoe Biscuits*—Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with a pound of sifted sugar, grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of lump sugar; scrape off' the yellow sugar with a knife, and having dried it well, add it to the above, and continue to beat till it becomes quite white; in the meantime whip up an equal number of whites, and mix them lightly with the rest; then sift into it half a pound of potatoe flour ; stir it in, and pour the preparation into paper cases, but not to fill them ; glaze, and place the cases on paper laid on a clean baking- tin, and bake in a moderate oven.POT POT 442 Potatoes ([Young) d la Creme..—Take some line young potatoes when they first come in season ; boil them in a little water with plenty of salt, and when done, care fully take off the skin ; toss them in a good cream sauce, and serve them at the second course. Potatoes A la Creme* — Put into a saucepan about two ounces of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley, scallions (both sliced small), salt, and pepper ; stir them up together, add a glass of cream and set it on the fire, stirring till it boils ; then having cut some boiled potatoes into slices, put them in the above ; give them a boil, and serve them hot. Potatoes (Croquettes of).*—Take the flowery parts of some well roasted pota- toes ; put them into a mortar, and pound them with some cream; rub the puree through a sieve, and add some butter, shred parsley, yolks of eggs, and the whites beaten to a snow ; make this preparation into little balls, whichroll in bread-crumbs; fry the croquettes of a nice colour, and serve them hot. A little powder-sugar and orange-flower water may’ be added to the above. Potatoes (French Custard of).*—Roast thirty of the best potatoes in hot ashes; pare them, use only the whitest parts, of which take three pounds, and beat it up thoroughly with a pound of fresh butter; then add the yolks of twelve eggs, a pound of powder-sugar, two ounces of crisped orange flower (also in powder), a pinch of salt, and a few spoonsful of Chantilly cream ; add to these the whites of twelve eggs, whipped firm; then pour this preparation into a croustade, like Other French custards, put it into a mo- derate oven, and bake it for two hours, or two and a half if necessary. Glaze and serve it. Potatoes ( Frangipaneof).*—Take some steamed potatoes (let them be thoroughly done); pare, and pound them perfectly ; then put them into a basin, add some whole, eggs, a little butter, the rind of a lemon grated, some bitter almonds crushed, a small quantity of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix these together well, and use this frangipane according to the usual di- rections. Potatoes Fried for Garniture.* Cut about forty potatoes either into balls or corks, wash and drain them. Clarify a pound of fresh butter, and when melted, pour it over the potatoes (which have been put into a frying pan) ; take care that they do not lay one on another; cover the pan, and set it on a brisk fire, hut lessen it afterwards, and then put hot coals on the lid ; stir the potatoes occa- sionally until they are of a nice gold colour, then drain, and fry them in a little butter and veal glaze. Observe, the potatoes should be dressed only just before they are wanted. Potatoe Fritters.*—Wash and pare some potatoes ; cut them into slices, which soak for half an hour in a little brandy, * with the rind of a lemon ; tnen drain, dip them in good batter, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them again, place the fritters in a dish, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them hot. Potatoes (Guteau of).*—Pare as many steamed, or well boiled dry potatoes, and pound them in a mortar, add butter and milk in which sugar has been dissolved; when the potatoes are well beaten and mixed, set the paste on the fire and boil it; then pour it into a basin to cool; then put to it the yolks of eight eggs, a suffi- cient quantity of sugar, the whites of four eggs beaten to a snow, and two spoonsful of orange-flower water. Take a mould, butter the inside well, and sprinkle the sides over with bread crumbs, and pour in the above preparation ; bake it till nicely coloured, when it may be turned on a dish. Serve with some sauce. Potatoes a hi Lyonnaise.*—Cut some boiled potatoes into slices, which put into a saucepan, and pour over them a clear puree of onions ; set them on the fire, and keep them hot, without letting them boil; add pepper, salt, a small quantity of stock, and a very little vinegar. Serve very hot. Potatoes d la Maztre d Hotel* Haling boiled your potatoes as usual, pare, and cut them into slices, which put into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, shred parsley, and scallions, salt and pepper; set them on the fire a short time, and fry them lightly in the butter and sweet herbs; if you find the butter oils, pour in a spoon- ful of stock. Serve with a little lemon juice. , Potatoe Pie.—Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or vea . Put into your dish alternate layers of meat and potatoes, until the dish is filled, finish as usual. n ... Potatoes a la Prcvenfale. —Put >n a saucepan about two ounces of into several pieces, and three dessert spoonsful of oil, half the peel of a lemon,POT 443 POT parsley and scallions (both shred small), grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful ot flour, salt and whole pepper; throw some potatoes into boiling water, in a few minutes take them ' out, pare and cut them into four or six r pieces, according to their size; put these | pieces into the butter, &c., set the sauce- (pan on the fire, stirring them constantly, taking care not to let them boil. Serve with a little lemon juice squeezed over. Potatoe Pudding.*—Having thoroughly boiled two pounds of potatoes, peel and pound them -well, then mix them with half a pound of melted butter, the same of powder sugar, and six eggs; beat the whole well, then add a handful or two of flour, and a glass of white wine ; stir these in, tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for half an hour. I Potatoe Pudding.*■—To two pounds of potatoes, boiled and mashed, when cold, ) add three eggs well beaten, two ounces of moist sugar, a little nutmeg, and a pint of new milk; add lemon peel if you please. I Bake it. Potatoes (Puree of).* — Steam some potatoes thoroughly, and having pared them, put them into a mortar, and pound them as fine as possible, moistening them with good stock. Bub them through a sieve into a saucepan, and dilute the puree with more stock ; set it on the fire, and stir it till it is of the requisite consistence, which should be that of thick cream ; serve the pur£e with fried bread round, and browned with the salamander. Potatoes (Quenelles of).*—Put some of the best land of potatoes into hot ashes to roast; when done, take out all the flowery parts, which put into a mortar, pound it well, and rub it through a sieve; take half the quantity of butter, and beat it in the mortar with the potatoe flour, till it be- comes a very fine paste ; them mix with it parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, the yolks of five or six eggs, and the whites ot two or three well whipped ; make your quenelles, and poach them as directed. (See Fowl Quenelles). Drain the | JueneZ/es,place them inadish, and pour over them an espagnole travaill£e, tomata, Portu- guese, or any other sauce you may prefer. Potatoe Rolls*—Take a dozen large potatoes, and roast them in hot ashes; when thoroughly done, pare and remove all those parts which may be at all co- loured by the heat, and of the remainder weigh three quarters of a pound, which put into a mortar, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and beat them together well; then add four ounces of powder- sugar, two of sifted flour, the yolks of two eggs, and a grain of salt; pound these all together to a fine paste, flour a slab, lay the paste on it, and having rolled it out, cut it into four equal parts, divide these again into small bits the size of a walnut, which roll into balls, or any other form you like better ; place them on a slightly buttered baking plate, dores, and bake them in a moderate oven. Let them be of a nice colour, and dry a little, that they may be crisp. Potatoes (Souffle of).*—Take six des- sert spoonsful of potatoe flour, which dilute with a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs ; add six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and a little shred lemon peel; set this mixture on the fire ; stir - ring till it has boiled up several times ; then take it off, and when cold, mix in the yolks of six eggs (or more if necessary) ; whip four whites of eggs as if for biscuits, and stir them lightly into the souffle, which put into a silver dish, and finish as usual. Potatoe Flour (Method of procuring).*— Wash and brush fifteen pounds of the most flowery kind of potatoes ; have ready a large pan full of water, into which grate the potatoes ; when all are done, change the water, in three hours’ time change it again, wash the flour twice more, then drain it on a silk tammy, and put it in the oven to dry ; if you want the flour quickly, put it on a stewpan, which set on hot ashes ; sift it before you use it. The above quantity of potatoes will yield two pounds of flour. Potatoe Flour (Souffle of).*—Make an infusion of any aromatic article you please ; then take a moderate sized saucepan, into which put half a pound of sifted potatoe flour, the same quantity of fresh butter, mix these together till they form a very smooth paste, and dilute it with nearly all the infusion, add a pound of powder sugar, and a pinch of salt; set the saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring constantly ; the moment it begins to thicken, take it off that it may more readily acquire con- sistence; then replace it on the stove, and dry it for a few minutes; then remove it again, mix with it the yolks of sixteen eggs, which should reduce it to the con- sistence of crime, pdlissiere ; if not, pour in the infusion which was reserved : having in the interim whipped the sixteen whites to a strong froth, stir them as lightly as possibly into the above ; make the whole quite hot, and then pour it into a croustude ;POU POU 444 set it in a moderate oven for an hour, or an hour and a half; serve it the instant it is brought from the oven, either glazed or not, according to your taste. POTIRON or Pumpkin (Gateau of).*— Peel and cut some potiron into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a little milk; when sufficiently soft, press it in a cloth to get rid of all the water ; then give it a few turns in some butter, add some potatoe flour, milk and sugar, and let it boil slowly till of the proper con- sistence, then take it from the fire, and pour it into a basin ; as soon as it is cold, add the yolks of eight eggs, sugar, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a snow ; pour this preparation into a well-buttered sauce- pan, and set it on a stove, cover the lid with hot ashes. When done, and suffi- cientlycoloured,turnitonadish, and serve. Potiron, or Pumpkin (Potage of).*—Cut some potiron into rather large dice, which put into a saucepan with a little water, and boil it till sufficiently done ; then put it into a cullender to drain, and when quite dry, rub it through a bolting ; put the puree into a saucepan, with a proper quan- tity of milk, so that the potage be not too thick, and add a quarter of a pound of butter. Cut some slices of bread into such shapes as you may think proper, brown them lightly in a little butter the same as for spinach, lay them in your dish, and pour the potage on them; take care that it be well salted. POUPELIN*— Put into a saucepan four glasses of water, a quarter of a pound of butter, the zeste of a lemon, and a pinch of fine salt; set it on the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil, take, it off, and put in as much sifted flour as will make a paste the consistence of choux, then replace it on the fire, and keep stirring till it dries; make a similar mixture, and when that also is dry, put both into a mortar, with half a pound of powder sugar, an ounce of orange flowers, and two eggs at a time, until five-and-twenty or thirty are used, by which time the paste will be of the proper consistence, then pour it into a lightly buttered tin, put it into a moderate oven, and leave it. In three hours time, if the poupelin is of a nice gold colour, tako it out, cutoff the top, and with a spoon remove all the inside, then set it in the oven to dry. When cold, spread all over the interior apricot marmalade, on which strew sweet macaroons crushed, then turn it on a dish, and serve. Poupelin Ilistoird*—Put into a sauce- pan eight glasses of water, and as many ounces of butter; set it on the fire, and as soon as it boils take it off and add as much sifted flour as will make a stifi paste; re- place it on the fire, stirring constantly, for some minutes, to dry; then take it out, and make a second quantity in the same manner; and when that also is dried, put both into a mortar, with three quarters of a pound of sugar, two ounces of orange- flower, and six eggs; then beat it up, add six more, and so on until the paste is moistened completely with fifty or sixty eggs ; pour this preparation into a large well-buttered mould of twelve sides, and put it into a hot oven. In two hours’ time the paste will rise above the mould, and some parts of it will fall over, which, however, is unavoidable, and of no con- sequence. When it has stood three hours and a half, draw the mould to the opening of the oven, and if the top of the poupelin is of a nice colour, cut it oft', and with a large spoon take out all the paste from the interior of the mould, so as to leave a complete croustade withinside, which must remain a few minutes to dry ; then take it out, and when nearly cold fill this croustade with three pounds"of apricot marmalade, and over that a pound of sweet macaroons, crushed ; this done, turn the mould over on a layer of common paste, nearly an inch larger than the top of the mould, which may now be removed. Dissolve in a bain-marie a pot of apple-jelly, and another of red currant-jelly; then with a feather cover the twelve sides of the pou- pelin alternately with these two jellies; then mix them together, and by the same means wash over the other parts of the poupelin. If you wish to ornament it still more, cut out a number of leaves of pistachios or green biscuits, which stick on with apricot marmalade, in such form as you may think proper, and between them place well-washed ary currants. Serve it as soon as possible after it is decorated. Poupelin a la llcine *—Make a choux paste, with very little butter and a gooc deal of flour, dry it as much as possible, and then dilute it again with eggs, bay your choux very small, and ot an equal size, dorez and put them in the oven; as soon as they are well dried, and of a nice colour, oil the mould you intend to use ; and having clarified and boiled some sugar to cussc, take up the choux on the en o a skewer, dip them in the sugar, place one in the middle of vour mould, and lay tho445 PUD PUD others round it until the interior is com- pletely covered, taking cave that they touch each other ; when done, turn the mould over carefully on a folded napkin, and serve the youpelin, with sweetmeats or preserves underneath. PRAWNS.—When in perfection, they have an excellent smell, and their flavour is extremely sweet; they are firm and stiff, the tails (which turn inward) par- | ticularly. When the prawns are fresh, their colour is very brig-lit; but if stale, they are pale, and clammy to the touch. P it a vv ns ( Buttered).—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of flour and butter, a very little nutmeg, salt and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets, or with a cream sauce instead of brown. Prawns (Currie of).— See Currie of Lobsters, Prawns in Jelly.—Make a savoury fish- jelly, and put some into the bottom of a small deep dish ; when it is cold, lay in the prawns with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. Prawns (to serve).* — Take a pound and a half of fine prawns, pick and trim them neatly; have ready a deep dish or soup-plate, the centre of which fill with any kind of salading you please, provided it has no smell; cover this with a large napkin, folded square, and the comers turned down, so as to form an octagon, leaving no more'than the border of the plate or dish visible ; place a handful of nice green parsley on the napkin, and the prawns in a pyramid on it. PU D D1 N(i ( Directions for).—Take the greatest care, in boiling of a pudding, that the cloth is perfectly clean; it should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured. The water should hoil quick when the pudding is put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, for fear the ingredients should not mix. When the pudding is done, a pan of cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipped into it as soon as it comes out of the pot, which will prevent its adhering to the cloth. A bread-pudding should be tied looso ; if batter, it must be tied tight over; and a batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. In others, the eggs only. If you boil the pudding in a basin or pan, take care that it is always well buttered. When you make your puddings without eggs, they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil for three or four hours. A few spoonsful of small beer, or one of yeast, is the best substitute for eggs. Yourpuddings will always be much lighter if you beat the yolks and whites of the eggs long and separately. You may, if you please, use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. The snow may be taken up from any clean spot, before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Pudding (Derbyshire).*—Talcea pint of milk and two table-spoonsful of flour; mix it by degrees, boil it till thick, and set it by till cold ; then add three ounces of butter, beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs ; mix it thoroughly, put a paste round the dish, and bake it in a quick oven. It is very good cold. Pudding Fran^aise* — To make this pudding it is necessary to have a dome- shaped mould, four inches deep and six in diameter, and a cover to fit ,the. top com- pletely, both full of holes, like a cullender. 'Phis mould must be buttered, and com- pletely lined with a thin layer of paste, which must turn over its edges. Take two pounds of very round truffles, and cut them into circular pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; fry these lightly in a quarter of a pound of warm butter, with a larn-e spoonful of fowl glaze, half a glass of Madeira, a pinch of fine herbs, a little grated nutmeg, and a proper quantity of salt. Then arrange the truffles in your lined mould, pour in all the seasonings turn the edges of the paste over them, and cover it besides with a layer of paste ; put on the lid of the mould, tie it in a cloth, and boil it for an hour and a half. The saucepan should be quite full of boil- ing water. Serve the pudding as quick as possible after it is taken up. Puddinos (German).—A pint of cream, two table-spoonsful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of almonds, beaten a little, the crumb of a French roll, grated sugar to your taste, the peels of two le- mons, grated or shred small ; and, lastlv a quarter of a pound of butter, clarified and put in cool; pour it into buttered cups, and bake them as custards; when you turn them out, pour over them melted butter, wine, and sugar. Puddings in Haste.—Shred suet, and446 PUN PUD put it with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel and ginger; mix and make it into little balls, about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. They take about twenty minutes boiling. Pudding (Lemon).—Put six ounces of butter, and half a pound of lump-sugar (in knobs) into a stewpan, stir them well over the fire till they are amalgamated ; then add eight eggs, well beaten, the grated rind and the j uice of two lemons ; mix all together, and pour it into a dish lined with puff paste, with some strips of can- died lemon-peel placed on the paste. Pudding (Quaking).—Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold, add to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth, boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, for fear it should break. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar, for sauce. Puddings (Queen’s).*—Slice some ap- ples, as for fritters ; butter a deep mould well; then put a layer of French roll, cut very thin and dipped in butter melted without flour or water; then lay a layer of apples, with sugar and lemon-peel grated ; fill the mould in this way. If the apples require it, add some juice of lemon, and brandy, if you choose. Last of all, cover the mould before you put it into the oven. Pudding a la Parisienne.* ■—Having minced a clove of the best vanilla, pound it with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and rub it through a sieve ; shred three quar- ters of a pound of veal suet, and half the quantity of beef-marrow, and six ounces of rice-flour; put these into a saucepan, adding to them seven yolks and two whole eggs, half a glass of cream, half a glass of maraschino, a pinch of salt, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, two ounces of whole pistachios, four ounces of sweet macaroons bruised, the sugared vanilla, thirty pre- served cherries, well drained, and each cut in half, and half a dozen apples, chop- ped small; mix these ingredients together well, and then put them into a well- buttered cloth ; tie it up, and fasten a weight of ten pounds to the centre of the pudding, to prevent its falling to one side; put it into a large saucepan, filled with boiling-hot water; set it on the fire, and keep it constantly boiling for four hours ; then take it out, dip it an instant in cold water, remove the cloth, and with a very sharp knife remove all the outside of the pudding ; strew powdered sugar over, and having cut two ounces of pistachios, each into six slices, fix them in like quills of a hedgehog. Serve it as quick as possible. Puddings (St. Germains').—Cut eight or ten onions into dice, and simmer them slowly in a quarter of a pound of lard; when done, take them from the fire, add to them half a pint of cream, a pint of hog’s blood, the yolks of six eggs, two pounds of bacon, cut into dice, salt and spices; mix these ingredients together well, put them into skins, and finish like Black Pudding. Pudding (Transparent). — Put eight eggs well beaten into a stewpan with half a pound of sugar, pounded fine, half a pouud of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the fire, and keep constantly Stirling till it thickens. Then set it into a basin to cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the dish ; pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. Candied orange and citron may be added, if you think proper. Puddings (Various).—See under the several heads of the kind of article that de- nominates the pudding. PUFFSa la Portugaise.—Line some small deep tartlet pans, with very thin puff paste, and put a little jam in each ; blanch four dozen sweet almonds, cut them in slips, drv them ; heat up the whites ot four fresh eggs, very stiff, put twolarge spoons- ful of dry pow'der sugar to them, and the almonds also; stir them together very gently, and immediately put a small spoon- ful of the jam in each of the tartlet pans; bake of a nice light colour ; they must be crisped, hut not too dark a colour, take them from the pans, and put on to paper. PUI1S d’Amour*—Having given the proper number of turns to some puff paste, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; then cut a piece with a paste cutter, the edges of which are scolloped, then cut two more pieces with small cut- ters, and place them on the first, press them down a little on each other, dares and bake them ; when about three parts done, sprinkle them with sugar ; glaze them , draw them from the oven, take out the middle part, which fill up with any kind o sweetmeat or preserve you may think proper. PUMPKIN. See Potiron. PUNCH.*—This is a delicious beverage, drank either hot or cold. It is compose of a mixture of lemon pice and peel, sugar, rum, brandy, and water, in suePUN QUA. 447 proportions, that the liquor may be fla- voured with all the ingredients, but that none may predominate. By the intro- duction of other articles, such as arrack, champagne, &c. to the above, it is called champagne punch, arrack punch, &c. The best method of proceeding is as fol- lows : Pare your lemons very thin, and soak the peel in spirits; dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice, then put in the spirits in the proportion of two glasses of rum to one of brandy, some strong green tea, and water at discretion. Punch.*—Take a very sound lemon, rub the rind on a piece of fine sugar (about half a pound) ; upon tills sugar pour half a pint of strong green tea, boiling hot; a little syrup of capillaire, the juice of two lemons, strained; to these add a quartof brandy ; set the whole on the fire, agitate the flame with the punch ladle, and when the liquor is reduced to one third, extinguish it, and pour the hot punch into glasses. Punch *—Squeeze the juice of six fine lemons through a sieve into a China bowl; grate some lemon peel on a piece of sugar, scrape off the surface as it becomes yellow, and dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice ; then pour in a bottle of champagne, the same of rum, a bottle of brandy, and a little green tea; dilute these ingredients with hot water at discretion. The quantity of sugar must also be regulated according to taste. Punch (Fromage Bavarois) .* — Infuse the rind of two lemons, pared very thin, in half a pound of clarified sugar; strain the infusion, and having added the juice of three lemons, and six drachms of cla- rified isinglass to the infusion, finish in the usual way (see Fromage Bavarois) ; add half a glass of rum or arrack to the cream. Punch (Transparent Jelly).*—Throw into some nearly boiling syrup the rinds of two lemons; cover, and leave the infu- sion to cool; in the meantime, filter the juice of five lemons into a basin; then strain the infusion through a tammy ; add a glass of good rum, or arrack, then an ounce of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. (See Clear Fruit Jellii) Punch Souffles (Franfaisof).*—Infuse six drachms of tea in nine glasses of boiling milk; cover and leave it a quarter of an- hour; in the meantime prepare your souffle in the usual way (see Souffle Fran- fais); put in the infusion of tea, and at the moment you are about to put in the yolks of eggs, add half a glass of good rum or arrack, and the juice of four lemons; finish your souffle as directed. See the above-mentioned recipe. Punch (Syrup of)*—Make a syrup with lemons, as directed (see Syrups) ; and when nearly cold, and well-flavoured, pour on it a bottle of arrack, or rum; stir. it well to amalgamate the two liquids; cover the vessel till the whole is quite cold, when it may be bottled. Q. QUAILS au Chasseur*—Put the quails in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- leaf, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until they are tender, when add a des- sert-spoonful of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a little stock, when this is thick, and quite hot (without boiling); take it from the fire, and serve. Quails a l’Espagnole*—Mix the juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pepper; pick, and prepare eight quails, stuff them well with the above mixture; then fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free; truss them a good shape, and put them into a saucepan on slices of bacon, cover them also with slices, add a poelee, moistened with equal portions of white wine and stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; then take them out, drain and untie the birds, place each on a piece of fried bread the size of the quail, and serve with clear espagnole, with the ad- dition of a little glaze. Quails (Gratin of).*—Take the livers of ten quails, pound, and mix them with some farce cuite, a little whole pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; stuff ten quails (previously boned) with some of this, forming them as near as possible to their original shape ; sew or tie them up. Mix the remainder of the farce with a ladleful of veloute, and spread it over a dish ; set it on the fire a minute, and then place the quails on it, cover them with slices of bacon, and put it in a hot oven for half an hour. When done, clear away the fat, and serve with an Ilalienne. Quails au Laurier *—Take eight very fresh quails ; having picked and otherwise prepared them, stuff each with a farce made as follows: Take the livers of the quails, some fowls' livers, grated bacon, bay leaf, and shalots (both shred small), salt, pepper, and nutmeg, well mixed! Wrap the quails each in a piece of baconQUE 448 QUA and buttered paper, put them on a skewer, and roast them. In the meantime, put two slices of ham and some bits of veal into a scewpan, set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick to the bottom, add a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of consomm6, the same of reduced espagnole, a bay leaf, and half a clove of garlic ; boil and reduce it to the consistence of sauce, and strain it. Take up the quails, remove the paper and bacon, place them on a dish, and lay a blanched bay leaf between each ; add a little lemon juice, and pimento butter to your sauce, stir it well, pour it into your dish and serve. Quails a la Milanese.*—Mix up the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt, with a bit of of butter, and with this stuff eight quails ; fasten the legs to the body, leaving the foot free ; dip each quail in some atlemande, and cover them with equal quantities of grated bread and Parmesan cheese; put them one by one in an omelet, then the bread and cheese again; fry them gently in clarified butter, and serve with a tomata sauce. Quails (Hot Pie of).*—Make a raised crust in the usual way, spread over the bottom of it som e farce cube mixed with the livers of the quails, pounded, and some weet herbs : take eight quails, take out the thigh bones, and half dress them in a little butter and sweet herbs ; when cold, stuff each with some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange them in the pie, fill up the intestines and the centre with the remainder of the farce, season it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails; wet the edges of the paste with water, cover the pie with a very thin crust; do it over with egg, and decorate it according to fancy. Put itinto the oven to bake ; an hour and a quartei will suffice. When done, raise the top carefully, remove the bacon, take off all the fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. Quails prepared as above, may also bo put in croustades, made in the form of a heart, large enough to contain a quail; eight’are sufficient for a dish. Quails (to roast)- — Truss the birds, and stuff them with beef suet and sweet herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; fasten them to a spit, and put them to the fire ; baste with salt and water when they first begin to get warm ; then dredge them with flour, and baste with butter. Put an an- chovy, two or three shnlots, and the juice of a Seville orange into a little rich gravy ; set it on the fire, shake it about, and when the anchovy is dissolved, serve it with the quails. Garnish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in a slice of bacon, and then in a vine leaf. They should be kept at a moderate distance from the fire. Quails (Stewed).—Put a little butter worked up with flour, and a few green onions, into a stewpan ; when brown, put in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of stock, parsley, some more small onions, a bay leaf, and two or three cloves ; stew these till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish yourdish with cocks’ combs, arti- choke bottoms, fried bread, &c. Quails with Truffles.—Peel and cut some truffles into rather large dice, and put them into a saucepan, with equal quantities of grated bacon and butter, a little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, four kinds of spice, and a truffle, minced small; set them on the fire seven oreiglitminutes; when cold, stuff some quails with this mixture, truss and tie up the birds in proper form, and put them into a saucepan, with slices of bacon under and over. Put into another saucepan some veal cut into dice, a carrot, seven or eight small onions, a clove, the trimmings of the truffles used above, half a bay leaf, and a good bit of butter; set these on the fire for a quarter of an hour, and then add a glass of white wine, and the same of stock, give it two or three boilings; pour this seasoning over the quails, set them on the fire. Half an hour will be sufficient time to cook them; when done, take them out, drain and arrange the birds round the dish, with the sauce in the centre, on a reduced espagnole. QUEEN CAKES (See Petit Gateau d la Peine.) , QUENELLES.*—Take six ounces of panada, ten of whatever kind of meat you intend making the quenelles, and eight of calf’s udder, all pounded separately, as fine as possible, and rubbed through a quenelle sieve; pound the meat and panada- together for a quarter of an hour, then add the udder , and continue pounding fifteen or twenty minutes longer; put to these- five drachms of spiced salt, a very little nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs. tea these up five minutes, then put in two more yolks, and two whites beat rm, a table-spoonful of rebate or bechamel, ana pound again five minutes ; then whole into a pan, and set it on ice. _ ready two or three deep dishes, andQUI 449 QUI saucepan of water (nearly boiling), iu which put a dessert spoon, fill another des- sert spoon with the farce, make the surface quite even with the edge of the spoon, this will give it the form of a half egg; dip the blade of a knife in the hot water, pass it over the top of the quenelle, and then raise it carefully from the spoon, by slipping that which was in the water under, and place it on the dish; proceed in the above manner until you have as many as you wish ; then have ready some boiling stock, which will fill the dishes containing the quenelles (do it with the utmost care, so thatthe quenelles be neither displaced nor spoiled in shape), cover the dishes and set them on the edge of the stove to simmer. When done, drain them, and serve as occasion may require ; or poach them in boiling water, about eight minutes, and mask them with a ve- loute ox bechamel sauce. Quenelle Patties.—Take some puff paste, roll it out very thin, and lay on half of it at intervals, some small pieces of quenelle farce, moisten the paste round each portion, and fold the remainder over it, press it down, and then either with a paste cutter or a knife, cut in semicircles; fry them, and serve with bunches of fried parsley. QUINCE Cakes.-—Pare and core half a dozen quinces, boil them till quite soft; then rub the pulp through a sieve, and strain it; mix this with half a pint of syrup of quinces, and the same of syrup of barberries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar; boil the whole to casst, and then pour it into small shallow moulds, of any shape you please; let them cool a little, and then dry them in a stove. Quince Cakes (Transparent).—Take a quart of syrup of quinces, and half a pint of the syrup of barberries; set them on a gentle fire, boil and skim them well; then add two pounds and a half of fine sugar ; keep stirring until it reaches candy height, then take it off, and when nearly cold, lay it, in any form you please, on tin plates. Dry them in a stove. Quinces ( Compote of).* — Take six quinces, cut them in halves, and core them ; scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear syrup into a preserving pan, with the juice of a lemon; when hot, add the quinces, and give them a boil together; drain the fruit, arrange it in the compotier; leave the syrup to thicken a little, and pour it over the quinces. Quince Cream.—Take four or five riue quinces, and roast them, but not to soften them; pare, core, slice them thin, and then boil them slowly in a pint of good cream, with a little ginger; when tolerably thick, strain it, add sugar to yeur taste, and flavour it with rose water. Quince Jelly*—Quinces for jelly ought not to be quite ripe, they should, however, be of a fine yellow colour; take off’ the down which covers them, quarter, core, put them into a saucepan, with water enough to cover them ; set them on the fire, and when soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, pressing them very slightly ; strain the liquor, and measure it; clarify, and boil to casse an equal quantity of sugar; then take it oft', add the liquor to it, stirring it well; when mixed, put it on the fire, still stirring; as soon as the jelly spreads over the spoon, and falls from it like treacle; take it from the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. Quinces (to keep).*—Gather the fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound ; rub each carefully with a clean cloth, to remove the down ; then quarter, and put them into bottles, corked tight. Give them half gn hour’s boil in the bain-marie. Quince Marmalade.—Gather the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the quinces into a saucepan, with a little water, set them on the fire until they are quite soft; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain; rub them through, weigh the pulp ; boil an equal quantity of sugar to petit casse, then add the pulp, stir them together over the fire, until it will fall from the spoon like a jelly; the marmalade is then fit to be put into pots, and when cold, cover them close. Quinces (to Pickle).—Pare and cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, and put them, with a gallon of water, and two pounds of honey, into a large saucepan ; mix them together well, and set them on a slow fire for half an hour : strain the liquor into a jar; when quite cold, wipe the quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; cover them very close. Quinces (Preserved).* — Choose the quinces very ripe, yellow, and perfectly sound ; pare, quarter, and core them ; put them into a little water, and scald them ; as soon as they are soft, throw them into cold water, then put them to drain. Cla- rify and boil to lisse an equal weight of sugar, put in the fruit, cover, andleave them to simmer for a quarter of an hour • then take them from the fire, skim, and’ pour the preserve into a pan. In two days’ time, drain off the syrup, boil it to 2 o450 RAB QUI parte, add the fruit, give the whole one boil (covered) ; let it cool a little, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour, after which, leave it till next day ; when, proceed as above, hut boil the syrup to grand per It. As soon as the preserve is cooled, pour it into pots, adding to each a little quince jelly. A little prepared cochineal added to the above, will give the preserve a fine red colour ; in which case the jelly ought also to be red. Quinces (Preserved) in White Jelly. Take as many quinces as you may require, choose them sound; pare, quarter, and core them, strewing powder-sugar over as you do them, filling up all the holes also with sugar ; throw in a small quantity of water, and when all are cut, add more water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, and the syrup clear, add some apple jelly, give the whole one boil, and then pour it into glasses ; when cold, drain off the syrup and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and let them boil as quick as you can ; just before the jelly is taken off, put in a small quantity of musk, or any other ingredient you may wish to flavour the preserve with, and then pour it in the glasses again, over the quinces, and when cold, cover them. This may also he coloured red by adding a small quantity of prepared cochineal; in this case, the jelly should be red too. Quince Pudding.-—Take a sufficient number of ripe quinces to yield a pound of pulp, to which put half a pound of powder sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two drachms, pounded ; mix them well. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream, add the quince, &c., stir the whole together, flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. Quinces (Ratafia of)*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, three quarts of the juice of quinces, three pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of cinnamon, and the same of cloves, both bruised. Proceed as follows put the spice into the brandy and leave it; scrape the quinces, and let the scrapings lie for twenty-four hours to ferment; after that time put them into a close linen cloth, and express the juice by means of a wine-press ; ad(l .tins juice to the spiced brandy, and leave it for three weeks or a month, then draw it ofl ; dis- solve the sugar, filter and put it to the ratafia. Coriander or mace, or both, may be added, if approved. Quinces, the S-pajiish way.—Pare and core ten pounds of quinces, put them into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of water and two pounds of fine sugar; set them on a slow fire, and when they begin to dry, moisten them with rose-water and sack, or white wine; then press the paste through a coarse sieve, add two pounds of sugar, a little orange-flower and rose- water. When sufficiently done, it will come off clean, if dropped on a plate ; then set it aside to cool. Put it into shallow pots, strew perfumed comfits over, and cover them close. Quinces (Syrup of).*—Pare and scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen cloth, press out the juice, which put in a very warm place, or where it is exposed to the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bot- tom ; then strain it well, and for every quarter of a pound of juice take one pound of sugar; mix them together, and boil the whole to perte ,* take it off, and when the syrup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. Take care to keep the bottles well corked. Quince Tart. — Take some preserved quinces, make a syrup with some sugar and water, of which and the preserve take an equal weight, and put it into a pre- serving-pan ; boil, skim, and then putin the fruit; when tolerably clear, lay the quinces in a tart-dish, with puff-paste, as usual; cover and bake it; as soon as it is done, raise the top gently, pour in the syrup, ice it, and serve. R. RABBITS.—The rules for choosing rabbits are the same as for choosing hares; and observe the same rules as for skinning and trussing hares, except, in skinning rabbits, cut off the ears; and it two together are roasted, skewer each head against the shoulder outwards, with four or" five skewers through the bodies, to fasten them well to the spit. Rabbits may he dressed according to the receipt for chickens. Rabbit (Atelets of).*-Take the meat from some roasted rabbits, remove tie skin and sinews, and cut the meat, some streaky bacon, champignons, and truffles, info pieces the size of a penny-piece . i ’P all these in an atelct sauce (see that arti- cle) ; have ready half a dozen silver sken - ers, ’on which run the above-mentione pieces alternately; rub them °'eT . molted butter and yolks of eggs,RAB RAB 451 together; broil them a quarter of an hour; dish, and serve with a clear aspic. Rabbits (Boiled).—Before they are boil- ed, hold the heads for a few minutes in a saucepan of water that is boiling, which will prevent the disagreeable appearance they otherwise have in cutting up ; they will take about half an hour in boiling, according to their size. If boiled and smothered with onion sauce, melt the butter with milk instead of water. Rabbit (Broiled).—-Take a couple of young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed with parsley, leeks, a few mush- rooms, and a clove of garlic, all shred fine, salt, and pepper ; roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of bacon, and put them, with a part of the seasoning, into pieces of white paper; butter the papers inside ; broil upon a gridiron, over a very slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. Rabbit Fillets en Cartouche*—Put into a pan about the size of an egg of grated bacon, double the quantity of butter, four dessert-spoonsful of oil; make these quite hot, and add three dessert-spoonsful of champignons, minced very small, and squeezed thoroughly in a cloth ; leave the pan on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then put in a spoonful of slialots, well washed and minced, give them a turn, and add the same of shred parsley; stir the whole together over the fire; your fillets being ready, cut each in half, and put them into the above, with salt, pepper, and pounded spice; when they are brown on both sides, take them out, and set them by to cool. In the meantime, cut as many square pieces of paper as you have bits of rabbits, and each large enough to contain the half fillet; rub them over with oil, lay a thin slice of bacon on every one ; on this put the fillet, with some of the above sea- soning ; wrap the paper over in the form of a cartouche, talcing care to fold the ends of the paper so that none of its contents can escape ; place these on a gridiron, over a clear fire, turn them frequently; when done, serve them dry, or with a clear gravy, as you please. Rabbits in a Fricassee.—Take two lino white rabbits, and cut them in pieces, by cutting off the legs, shoulders, and back ; blanch them in boiling water, and skim them for one minute ; stir a few trimmings of mushrooms in a stewpan over the fire, with a bit of butter, till it begins to fry ; then stir in a spoonful of flour ; mix into the flour, a little at a time, nearly a quart of good consomme, which set on the fire, and when it boils, put the rabbits in, and let them boil gently till done ; then put them into another stewpan, and reduce the sauce till nearly as thick as paste; mix in about half a pint of good boiling cream, and when it becomes the thickness of bichamelle sauce in general, squeeze it through the tammy to the rabbits; make it very hot, shake in a few mushrooms, the yolk of an egg, and a little cream ; then serve it to table. Add Cayenne, salt, and lemon. Rabbits may also be preserved, white or brown, in the same manner as chick- ens. Rabbit Galantine*—Bone a rabbit en- tirely (except the head), take away the meat of the thick part of the thigh, lard it with seasoned lardons ; mince the meat taken off with the fillets of two other rabbits, take an equal quantity of bacon, minced, mix them together, add salt, pep- per, pounded spice, and minced truffles; lay the rabbit open on a cloth, season, and spread a layer of the farce all over it; on this place tongue a Vicariate, truffles, and lardons, in small pieces; proceed thus, alternately, until the rabbit is full ; then form it as well as you can ; tie slices of bacon all over it, wrap it in the cloth, and tie it again; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, put in the rabbit, a knuckle of veal, the bones of the rahbit, two car- rots, three onions (one stuck with cloves), two bay-leaves, a little thyme, parsley, scallions, half a bottle of white wine, a ladleful of stock, and a little salt; set the pan on the fire to simmer for two hours, then take from the fire, and in half an hour’s time take out the rabbit carefully When quite cold, take it out of the cloth glaze, and serve it. Rabbits Gihelotte.*— Cut a rabbit into pieces, as near of a size as possible ; make a roux with a quarter of a pound of butter and two dessert-spoonsfuls of flour ; when it is of a good colour, put in the rabbit to brown, add a quart of good stock, and half the quantity of white wine, stir till it boils, then put in some champignons, streaky bacon (previously browned), a bunch of parsley, scallions, a little thyme, and a bay-leaf; set the whole on a brisk fire to reduce the liquor ; season with salt and pepper to the taste. Toss up about thirty small onions in a little butter, and add them, with some bits of eel, to the above when about three parts done. Take 2 c 2RAB RAB 452 care to remove all fat; take out the herbs, and serve. Rabbit (era Hattelettes).—Cut up one or more rabbits, and stew them with half a glass of white wine, some stock, a bunch of herbs, salt, and coarse pepper; when done, and the sauce reduced so as to ad- here to the meat, let them cool; then put the pieces upon small skewers, wet them with an egg beat up, and grate bread over them; broil, and serve dry upon the skewers. Rabbit Loaf.*—Take a double mould, butter and fill the space round the smaller one, with a rabbit quenelle (see that arti- cle) ; place your mould in the bain-marie to simmer. When the farce is sufficiently done, turn it on a dish ; take care no water gets into it; put into the space left by the smaller mould the brains, small fillets, and and kidneys (lightly fried) ; mis some espagnole with half a glass of champagne and a fumet of game ; reduce this, and pour it over the contents of the loaf; glaze the exterior, and serve. Rabbits (Marinade of').'*—Take some cold roasted rabbits, cut them in pieces, trim them nicely, and put them into a marinade (see that article) ; when suffi- cftently flavoured, drain them thoroughly, put the pieces into a batter, and fry them a nice colour. Serve with fried parsley. Rabbit (Minced).—Take the remains of a roasted rabbit, cut ofl all the meat, and mince it with a little roast mutton. Then break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a slice of butter, some slialots, half a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and basil; give these a few turns over the fire, then shake in a little flour; moisten with a glass of red wine, and the same quantity of stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour ; strain it off, and put in the minced meat, adding salt and coarse pep- per ; heat the whole, without boiling, and serve hot. Garnish with fried bread. Rabbits u. la Minnie*—Cut your rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly dry ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stew- pan, set it on the fire, and when warm, put in the rabbit with a little pounded spice, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; let the firo be brisk, and as soon as the pieces are browned, udd a little shred parsley and slialots, leave it throe or tour minutes longer on the fire, and then serve. Ten or fifteen minutes are sufficient to cook this dish. Rabbit Pic.—Cut a couple of young rabbits into quarters, and bruise a quarter of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, parsley, cut small, and a few leaves of sweet basil; when these are all beaten fine, line your pie-dish with a nice crust, then put a layer of the seasoning at the bottom of the dish, and put in the rabbits ; pound some more bacon in a mortar, mix with it some fresh butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and over that lay thin slices of bacon ; put on the cover, and place it in the oven ; it will be done in about two hours ; when baked, take off' the cover, take out the bacon, and skim off the fat; and if there is not a sufficient quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or veal gravy. Rabbit Pie (Raised).—Cut your rabbits in pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of' fresh butter, lemon juice, pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, shalots, chop- ped very fine, and a little pounded mace. When the pieces of rabbit are about half done, lay them on a dish, and when cold, raise the crust; put light forcemeat at the bottem ; the rabbit upon it, and more force- meat upon the top. Cover it, and put it in a moderate oven to bake gently; when done, take off the cover, and add a ragout of sweetbreads, cocks’-combs, See., and serve. Rabbits (Portuguese).— Cut off the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the backs upwards, the two legs stripped to the end, and trussed with a couple of skewers in the same manner as chickens, the wings turned like the pinions of a chicken ; lard and roast them with good gravy. If they are intended for boiling, they should not be larded, but be served with bacon and greens, or celery-sauce. Rabbits (Potted).—Take two or three young, but full-grown rabbits, cut them up, and take off the leg bones at the thigh, season them well with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder, and put them into a small pan, placing them as closely together as possible. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and carcasses, but take off the meat about the neck. Put plenty of butter, and let the whole bake gently. Let it remain in the pan tor two days, pound it well, and then put it into small pots, adding butter. The livers should also be put in. . . Rabbit (Preserved).*—Having boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham , season it well inside and out, ro i tip.RAB 453 RAB beginning with the legs, make it tight, and tie it. Put it into a stewpan, with some oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set these on the fire till done enough (but without boiling). When sufficiently cooked, take out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then cut it into small pieces, which put into bottles ; fill them with oil and cover wit wet bladders. When required for table take them out, cut them into fillets, and place on a dish with shred parsley and oil. Rabbits (Pulled).—Half boil your rab- bits, with an onion, a little whole pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon peel; pull the flesh into flakes; put to it a little of the liquor, a bit of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and the liver boiled and bruised; boil this up, shaking it round, and serve. Rabbit (Quenelles of).*—Take the fil- lets and legs of rabbits, separate the meat from the skin and sinews, pound it tho- roughly, and rub it through a quenelle sieve; take an equal quantity of panada, the same of butter, each pounded sepa- rately, and passed through a quenelle sieve; then pound all three together, in a little time add salt, pepper, and spice, still pounding ; add, occasionally, three yolks, and two whole eggs; when sufficiently pounded, make up a ball of it, put it into a saucepan to try if it be properly sea- soned. Whip three whites of eggs to a very firm froth, stir it into the farce with a wooden spoon, instead of the pestle, and finish as usual. Rabbit Quenelles era Terrine*—Make your farce as usual, except that a smaller quantity of butter should be used, poach them in balls, drain them, and lard each carefully with truffles, cut in small slips; when larded, put them into a stewpan, with cocks’-combs and kidneys, two small veal nuts, lamb’s sweetbreads ; put into another stewpan two ladiesful of veloutc one offumet of game, half a bottle of ma- de™, and some champignons, previously fried lightly; reduce this sauce to half, then take out the champignons, and put, them to the quenelles, &c.; make a liaison with four yolks of eggs and an ounce of butter, stir it oyer the fire, but do not let it boil; then strain the sauce over the que- nelles, make the whole hot together, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Rabbits (to roast). — They may be roasted with stuffing and gravy, the same as hare. Serve with sauce made of the liver and parsley, chopped, in melted butter, pepper and salt. Rabbit Salad.—Take some crumb of bread and cut it into small pieces, the same as you cut bacon for larding ; fry it in butter, let it be a nice colour, and then drain it; take the remains of a rabbit that has been roasted, cut the meat into slices, and arrange it in the dish for table upon fried bread; add two anchovies* cut very small, and well washed, some capers, and some small white onions, boiled ; the whole tastefully intermixed; season with salt, coarse pepper, oil, and vinegar. The seasoning is not usually added until the rabbit is placed upon the table. Rabbits Legs au Soiiel.*—Bone the legs, and lard them very closely with ba- con, seasoned with salt, pepper, and pounded spice; warm some butter in a pan, put in the legs, and fry them lightly over a very hot stove ; then add a dessert-, spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, two of veloutd, a bay-leaf, some champignons, half a bottle of white wine, and a bunch of parsley and scallions; set it on a fierce fire, to reduce the liquor; skim it well, and when done and sufficiently reduced, take out the rabbit legs, and set them to cool, stir the yolks of five eggs, and a small piece of butter into the sauce, and pour it over the legs. When cold, dip them in bread crumbs, and let them thoroughly im- bibe the sauce alternately. Beat up five eggs with a little salt, and pepper, dip the legs in, bread them all over, and give them a good form ; fry them in a very hot pan to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Rabbit Soup *—Cut an old rabbit into pieces, put them into a quart of water boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a marble mortar, as for potting; add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to your taste; stir it into the liquor the rabbit was boiled in, with the addition of a very little cream. Rabbits en Surprise.•—Roast a couple of young rabbits, cut their heads oft’ very- close to the shoulders ; take oft' all the meat from the back, cut it into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with some milk thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little nutmeg, and salt, nnd let them stew for six or eight minutes, until the sauce becomes of the consistence of cream ; make a forcemeat with a pound of veal, the same quantity of suet, an equal quantity of bread crumbs, two anchovies, some lemon peel grated ; a little thyme and a nutmeg grated; mix the wholeRAI 454 RAG together, with the yolks of two eggs; place it round the rabbits, leaving each side of the back bone open to put the meat in which was cut oft'; lay in the meat, and smooth it over with a raw egg ; make it square at both ends, butter a dish, and put the rabbits upon it with great care, and put them into the oven to hake ; the must be done to a fine brown colour; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them gravy, thickened with butter; add the squeeze of a lemon. RABIOLES.—Take a pound of flour, place it on a slab, make a hole in the middle, into which put three eggs, work them well in, until your paste becomes firm and smooth, then roll it out as thin as paper, adding as little flour as possible. Have ready some quenelle farce mixed with a little grated Parmesan, burrage, (scalded and shred), some boiled milk, and cream cheese, nutmeg, cinnamon, the yolks of two eggs, and some pepper. Lay this farce in small portions, at equal dis- tances, over half the paste, moisten the edges, and turn the other half on it; press it down round the bits of farce, and then cut it into small square pieces ; put these into some good stock, when they have boiled five minutes and rise to the top, take them out and drain them. Take a soup tureen, pour a ladleful of gravy into it, thenputin alayer of therabioles, another of Parmesan cheese, grated, some melted butter, and then just cover them with gravy ; serve very hot. RADISHES au Blond.*—Boil in some stock, and drain your radishes, then put them into a stewpan, with veal blond; simmer them for half an hour; add a little nutmeg and verjuice; stir them occa- sionally, and when the radishes are fla- voured and well coloured, dish them, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it in the oven. Radishes in Broth.*—Take some young radishes, pick and scald them, cut them into halves or quarters according to their size, and boil them with a slice of bacon in some stock, lit a little time take them out, drain, and .put them into another stewpan, with consomme, or veal gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them stew gently in this till they are fla- voured, of a good colour, and the sauce pretty thick ; then serve them. R AGOUT (Chipolata).* —Cut into tli shape of an olive, twenty-four pieces of carrots, the same of turnips, onions and chestnuts: blanch, and then dress them in some consommd, with a little sugar; boil a dozen small sausages, and as many slices of streaky bacon in water; put all your garnish into a stewpan, with twenty cham- pignons, a ladleful of espagnole, first working it up with the bottoms of the entree, for which the ragout is intended; serve as hot as possible. Ragout a la Financiered—Take twenty- four large champignons, and as many truffles, cut into little balls, put them into a stewpan with half a bottle of Madeira, two allspice, a little tomata, and an ounce of veal glaze ; reduce the whole to a jelly, and then add four ladiesful of espagnole; work up two spoonsful of veal blond ; boil it up, set it on the side of the stove, re- duce, and strain it, then put the champig- nons and truffles into another [saucepan, pour the sauce over them, with the ad- dition of twenty-four cocks’-combs, and kidnies, twenty-four quenelles, twelve lamb or veal sweetbreads, either sliced or not, as you please, add a little cream, sea- son and serve very hot. Ragout a la Providence.*—Take twenty pieces of well salted streaky bacon, as many small sausages boiled, twenty cham- pignons, as many quenelles, made of the shape and size of the sausages, peel and turn the same number of chestnuts, cut twelve truffles into balls, and put all these articles into a stewpan, with a glass ot Ma- deira, a little glaze, cocks’-combs and kid- nies ; add some clarified gravy, make the ragoxll quite hot, and serve. Twenty of thirty olives, turned and blanched, maybe added, if you think proper. Ragout a la Toulouse.*—Take the same ingredients as for the Financiere, put them into a saucepan, with some half glaze of fowl, dress all together, except the quenelles; add a ladleful of allemande. Put your ragout into the bain-marie to heat it, without letting it boil. If the ■ sauce be too thick, dilute it with fowl consomme. RAISIN Wine.* — One hundred ot Smyrnas to twenty gallons of water, wine measure ; boil the water with half a pound of hops in for an hour ; let it stand till cold; then put it on the fruit; let it re- main three weeks, Stirling it every day ; press it off, and put it into the cask; do not bung it down till the fermentation has ceased ; when it has stood about a year, draw it off clear, put it into die barrel again, and let it stand to settle before it is o - tied ; before it is bunged down close, put a quart of brandy to a hogshead of wine,RAM 455 RAS what is thick should he run through a flannel bag. N. B. The time for steeping depends on the warmth of the weather ; when the fruit is swelled ready to break, it is in a fit state to press. Raisin Wine Vinegar.*—After pressing off the wine, lay the fruit in a heap to beat two or three days; then, to every hundred of fruit, put fifteen gallons of water; let it stand in the tub, stirring it ever)'- day till it becomes sour ; then strain it off, put it into the cask, and ferment it with a toast covered with yeast; lay a piece of slate over the bung-hole; set it in the sun during the summer, and in winter in a warm place. Raisin Vinegar.—To every two pounds of Malaga raisins, put four quarts of spring water; lay a tile over the bung, and set it in the sun till lit for use. A stone bottle will do as well as a cask. Placing it in the chimney-corner, and keeping it there a proper time, will do as well as placing it in the sun. RAMEQUINS.—Take a quarter of a pound of Cheshire cheese (grated), the same quantity of Gloucester cheese, and beat them in a mortar, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a French roll, boiled in cream till soft; when all is beaten to a paste, mix it with the whites of the eggs, previously beaten, and put the paste into small paper cases, made rather long than square, and put them to bake till of a fine brown. They should be served quite hot. You may, if you think proper, add a glass of white wine. Ramequins.*—Take half a pint of water, three ounces of Gruyere cheese, a little Parmesan, an equal quantity of butter, salt, and pepper ; put them into a stew- pan, set it on the fire ; when the water boils, take it off, mix sifted flour and eggs with it, as directed for choux; pour your preparation into buttered tins, dorez them, and lay on each a thin slice of Gruyere cheese ; bake them in a moderate oven. Ramequins a la Creme.*—Put into a saucepan two ounces of fresh butter, and two glasses of good milk ; when it begins to boil, take it from the fire, and add five ounces of sifted flour, mix this well; then replace it on the fire, stirring constantly for three minutes ; pour the paste into an- other saucepan, to mix it with two ounces more of butter, two of Parmesan cheese, grated, and two eggs; these being tho- roughly amalgamated, add a pinch of mignonetle, a spoonful of powder sugar, an egg, and three ounces of Gruyere cheese, cut into dice ; work this mixture well, and put to it three spoonsful of whipped cream; your paste ought to be the con- sistence of choux; lay the ramequins rather smaller than the choux, dorez them in the same manner, and put them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Serve very hot. RASPBERRY Cakes.*—Gather some raspberries before they are quite ripe, pick and lay them in a stove to dry ; then beat them in a mortar. Take a pound and a quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it to cassd; then weigh half a pound of rasp- berries, dried as above; throw them into the syrup, with half a spoonful of white of egg, beaten in cream ; stir it carefully, give it a boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. Raspberries (Compote of).* — Choose your fruit when quite dry and perfectly sound ; pick them carefully, and put them into cold water ; boil some clarified sugar to la plume; drain the raspberries, put them into the syrup, take the pan from the fire, and leave it. A little time after stir the fruit gently, give them one boil, and then put them into a compotier. Raspberries (Conserve of).*—Beat up a pound of raspberries to a syrup, to which add the juice of a quarter of a pound of red currants, strained; put the pan on a moderate fire till the fruit is reduced to half. In the meantime boil a pound and a quarter of sugar to la plume, then stir it continually till it whitens ; when a little cooled, mix the fruit with it thoroughly, and then pour it into your moulds to dry. Raspberry Cream*—Whip some good cream to a fine froth ; beat up powder- sugar with ripe raspberries, rub this through a sieve, and mix it as lightly as possible with the whipped cream ; lay it carefully in a china bowl, or in glasses ; if the former, garnish it with a string of ripe raspberries. Raspberry Cream .*—Boil an ounce and half of isinglass in as little water as pos- sible, strain it, and add raspberry syrup sufficient to give it a pleasing colour ; then add half a .pint of white wine and turn ounces of pounded sugar; all this to be put to a pint of thick cream, and to be well beaten before it is put into the moulds. Raspberries, Crime of (Liqueur).* — Take four pounds of fresh-gathered rasp-, berries, pick, and infuse them for four-RAS 456 RAS and-twenty liours in. a gallon and a lialf of brandy, and a quart of water; at the end of that time distil the infusion ; dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water; mix the syrup in the liqueur, filter and bottle. Raspberry Dumplings. — Take some good puff-paste, roll it out and spread raspberry jam over; roll it up, and boil it rather more than an hour; cut it into five slices; pour melted butter into the dish, grate sugar round, and serve. Raspberry' Fritters.—Grate two Naples biscuits, or the crumb of a French roll; put to either a pint of boiling cream; when this is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten; beat all well to- gether with some raspberry juice ; drop this, in very small quantities, into a pan of boiling lard; stick them with blanched almonds, sliced. Raspberry Ice.*—Press the juice from as many raspberries as will yield a pound and half; put it into a glazed pan, and leave it for four days. Then carefully raise the skin that has formed on the top of it, pour off die juice into another vessel; clarify a pound and a half of sugar, with a pint and a half of water, add the juice, and give them half a dozen boils ; if not suffi- ciently red, put in a root of orkanet, which leave in till of the proper colour; strain the preparation through a sieve; when cold, put it into the sabotiere and freeze it. (See Ice.) Raspberry Ice Water.* — Pick and crush as many raspberries as will yield a pound of pulp ; put this into a pound of clarified sugar boiled to petit lisst, with the juice of two lemons; mix them to- gether well If too thick, add a glass of water; put the preparation into a mould, and freeze it as directed. (See Ice.) Raspberry Jelly.*—Take two-thirds of raspberries, and one-third red currants; pick them, press the juice through a sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a cellar, or any other cold place, for three days; at the end of that time raise the thick skin formed at the top, and pour the juice into another vessel; weigh it, and put it, with half the quantity of sugar, into a pre- serving-pan ; set it on the fire. . A great deal of scum wrill rise at first, which must all be taken off; leave it on the fire for an hour ; then pour a few drops on a cold plate : if it cools of the proper consistence for jellies, take it from the fire, and whilst hot pour it into pots. Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are covered. Raspberries (to keep).*—This fruit may be bottled for keeping, like cherries. They must not be more than just ripe. Raspberries of Marchpane *—Take a. pound of marchpane, the juice of four lemons, a quarter of a pound of raspberry jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these together with a strong wooden spatula; then add two handsful of flour, and some powder-sugar ; when well worked up, roll them into pieces about the size of a finger; cut these into dice, roll each into a ball, pinch the top into a point, so as to re- semble the form of a raspberry ; then put them one by one into paper cases, which place in a dry warm place for eight or ten days. At the end of that time, put a por- tion of syrup of raspberries, a little cochi- neal, and a small quantity of powder- sugar into a pan; mix them together with a spoon, and then throw into it a couple of handsful of the raspberries; take the pan in both hands, and shake it about, so that the raspberries may be equally co- vered with the red syrup ; then put sugar a la grele on a large sheet of paper, spread it out a little, and while the raspberries are wet with the syrup, throw them into the sugar; then take the four comers of the paper, shake it about well, by which means the sugar will adhere to the rasp- berries in all parts, and give them a per- fect resemblance to the real fruit; take them out carefully one by one, lay them on paper, and put them in a warm place for some days. These artificial raspberries are of a pleasant flavour, and will keep several years. Raspberry Marmalade.*—Take double the weight of raspberries to that of sugar; rub the fruit through a sieve, and put the pulp into a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and stir till it is reduced to half; then pour on the sugar, previously clarified and boiled to petit bouli, stir it well in, put it on the fire, give it a few boils, and then pour it into pots. Raspberries (Preserved).*—Take five or six pounds of red, but not too ripe, rasp- berries, pick, and put them into a pre- serving-pan, with an equal weight of cla- rified sugar, hoiled to petit boule; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, skim, and pour the whole into a pan till the next day, then drain the fruit, and put it into jars; put to the syrup about two glasses of cherry juice, previous y strained ; boil the sugar to la nappe, an then pour it over the raspberries, a afterwards about a spoonful of currantRAT 45T REM i jelly to each pot, and when cold, lay on i brandy-papers, and tie them down. Raspberry Ratafia.*—Take three pints !of raspberry juice, and halt a pint of cherry-juice ; dissolve in these a pound and a half of fine sugar; let it stand some time, and then add three quarts ot the best brandy; strain it, and when quite clear, bottle it. Be careful to keep it well corked. Raspberry Tart.—Line your dish with a nice puff-paste, lay in sugar and fruit, put bars across, and hake. Raspberry Tart with Cream.—Line a patty-pan with thin puff-paste, lay in some raspberries, and strew some very finely-sifted sugar over them ; cover them with puff-paste, and hake it; when done, cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, in which has been previously beaten the yolks of two or three eggs, and sweetened with a little sugar ; when this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. Raspberry Wine.*-—Thoroughly wash, clean, and stone three pounds of sun- raisins ; then boil two gallons of spring water for half an hour; as soon as it is taken off the fire, pour it into a deep stone jar, and put in the raisins, with six quarts of fresh raspberries, and two pounds of loaf-sugar; stir the whole well together, cover the jar closely, and set it in a cool place, stirring it twice a day ; then pass it through a hair sieve, put the liquor into a close vessel, adding one pound more of loaf-sugar ; let it stand for a day and a night to settle, after which bottle it, adding a little more sugar. Raspberry Vinegar (Syrup of).*—Take a large wide-mouthed glass bottle, pour into it two quarts of the best vinegar, and as many picked raspberries as the bottle will contain, taking care that the vinegar does not come above them; let these stand covered for a week. At the end of that time, pour both vinegar and raspberries on a silk sieve, pressing the latter lightly, that the juice may run through with the vine- gar ; when perfectly clear, weigh it, and put double its weight of fine sugar, crushed; pour the vinegar in, close the matrass, and i set it in a moderately heated bain-marie; I as soon as the sugar is dissolved, let the fire go out gradually, and when the syrup is cold, bottle it. The corks should bo I sealed, to exclude the air entirely. RATAFIA of four Fruits.*—Take ten ! pounds of very ripe cherries, two pounds 1 and a half of raspberries, five pounds and a 1 half of red and two pounds of black cur- rants ; pick, and mix these fruits together, press the juice from them, measure it, and for every quart of juice take half a pound of sugar, and an equal quantity of brandy; dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in the brandy, a drachm of mace, and. two drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep them well corked. Ratafia of Seeds.*—Take three drachms of each of the following seeds :—anise, cummin, fennel, dill, coriander, carraway, and angelica ; bruise, and infuse them for a month in a gallon of brandy. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a pint of water : add this syrup, at the end of the above- mentioned time, to the infusion ; then filter and bottle it. Ratafia, without Sugar or Syrup *— Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a quarter of an hour; then put it into a large bottle, with the kernels, and also some apricot kernels ; to this add (if you wish the ratafia a deep colour) the juice of two or three pounds of black cherries. Put to your juice half or a third of its quantity of the best brandy; then bottle it, and, when the fer- mentation has ceased, cork the bottles. If the air is excluded, this ratafia will keep for many years. RAVIGOTE.'*—Shred small a little chervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon; this latter ought to predominate (the mix- ture of these articles constitutes the ruui- gote) ; take some veloutd, two dessert- spoonsful of vinegar, and a little whole pepper, make them quite hot, add a bit of butter, and the ravigote; stir till the butter is quite dissolved, and serve. Ravigote with Oil*—Mince the ravi- gote, and put it into a saucepan with a ladleful of cold velout6, salt, and whole pepper; stir it well to mix it thoroughly ; then add two ladiesful of oil, mix that well also, then pour in four or five dessert- spoonsful of vinegar ; keep stirring it till very smooth, and the meat or fish salad be ready for it to be poured on. REMOULADE*—Put some mustard into a basin, and mix it up with some water, add to this a little shalot and ravi- gote, both shred, six spoonsful of oil, four of vinegar, some salt, and whole pepper ; mix them well in, and then put in the yolks of two raw eggs, and continue stir- ring until the sauce is very smooth. It ought to be rather thick. Remoulade {Green).*—Scald a ravigote well, press and pound it, then add salt.RI1U 458 RIC whole pepper, a glassful of mustard; pound again, mix in a glass of oil the yolks of two or three raw eggs, and four or five dessert-spoonsful of vinegar; when all these ingredients are thoroughly amal- gamated, strain the whole through a bolt- ing, like a puree; it ought to be rather thick. If not green enough, add a liftle spinach-essence. Remo u lade (Indian').*—Pound the yolks of ten hard eggs to a paste, dilute it with eight spoonsful of oil, put in one at a time, and continue pounding all the time; then add about a dozen allspice, a tea-spoonful of saffron, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, salt, and pepper; amalgamate the whole perfectly, strain it through a bolting-cloth, and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce should be rather thick, as well as the preceding. RENNET.— As soon as the calf is killed, take out the stomach, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain for a few hours, after which sew it up with two large liandsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Rennet.—Prepare the maw the same as in the above receipt: on the following day, put a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose- leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoonsful of salt, into two quarts of fresh spring water ; let them boil gently till the water is reduced to three pints, then strain it oft', and when only milk warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, and add to it; in two days strain it again, and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may be put in also ; take care that it is sufficiently salt. If the maw bo again salted for a few days, and dried as above, it will be quite as fit for use as before ; it should be kept in a cool dry place. A small quantity of the liquid is sufficient for turning. RHUBARB Tart.—Let the stalks be of a good size, take off the thin skin, and cut them into lengths of four or five’ inches ; lay them in a" dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water ; cover with another dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour upon a hot hearth, or do them in a blocktin saucepan. As soon as cold make it into a tart; when tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient; or you may cut the stalks into little bits, the size of goose- berries, and make your tart the same as gooseberry tart. RICE Biscuits*—Take the grated rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, the yolks of six, half a pound of rice-flour, ten ounces of powder-sugar, two ounces of apple, and the same of apricot marmalade, and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound the marmalades and orange-flowers to- gether, then add the whites of eggs, whip- ped to a snow ; beat the yolks with the sugar for a quarter of an hour, put them to the rest, and when well mixed in, add the lemon-peel and rice-flour; work all together, pour the preparation into paper cases, bake them in a moderate oven, and glaze them. Rice Bread.—Take a pound of rice, and let it simmer in two quarts of water till it is quite tender; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it thoroughly with four pounds of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as for other bread. The proper quantity of yeast to be used, is about four spoonsful; knead it well; then set it to rise before the fire. A portion of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than other. Rice Cake.*—Take six ounces of ground rice, six ounces of flour, three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, sifted, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; mix all well together, grate in the rind of a lemon, and beat it well half an hour. Rice (Cassolettes of).—Prepare the rice as for casserole; fill some dariole moulds with this rice, make a hole in them by pressing a round piece of carrot into the rice ; fill this cavity with an emincee of cold fowl, close it up with more rice, turn out the cassolettes from the moulds, dip them into beaten eggs, and then into bread-crumbs, twice repeated; fry them of a nice colour in hot lard. Rice (Casserole'of).*—Take a pound and a half of Carolina rice, wash it thoroughly in several waters (warm), and then put it into a saucepan, at least eight inches in diameter; moisten it with stock in this proportion : if the rice lies an inch thick, let the stock come two inches above it, and four ladiesful of fowl skimmings; place the saucepan on a hot stove ; when the rice boils, set it on the side, and skim it; then put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil slowly for fifteen to twenty mi- nutes ; stir it, 'let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty-five minutes, stir itRIC 459 RIC again : if by this time the rice is per- fectly soft, take it off; but if not, add a little more liquid, and continue boiling until it is so; place the saucepan aslant on the side of the stove that the fat may drain away and be taken off easily. As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it into a firm smooth paste with a spatula; it can hardly be worked up too much, as every grain of rice ought to pass under pressure. If necessary, add more stock, a very little at a time. When the paste is thus thoroughly worked up, form your casserole of it, first laying it in a heap, four or five inches high, and seven in diameter ; do it with the hand, as you would a raised crust; make the ornaments of the outer surface with the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for the purpose, taking care that the de- corations be detached from the mass of rice at least an inch; attention to this particular will not only add to the beauty of the form, but to the colour also, as the raised parts will be lightly coloured, while the ground will be quite white. When properly formed, mask the whole surface with clarified butter, and place it in a hot oven for an hour and a half, by which time it will be of a fine clear yellow. Take off the top of your casserole, clear away all the rice from the inside that does not adhere to the crust (which ought to be very thin), and then fill your casserole with such ra- gouts as your fancy may dictate ; glaze the surface of the outer ornaments, and serve it. Water, with butter and salt, is fre- quently thought preferable to the stock, &c., as the rice is thereby rendered much whiter. Rice (Casserole of').—Well wash and pick a pound of Caroline rice, blanch it in boiling water, strain it off, put it into a stewpan to boil with just sufficient stock to allow it to stew quite soft, but not more than it can absorb completely up; put a little salt in, and let it stew gently on a slow stove, stir it well and be careful to make it very firm and stiff; have a casserole mould ready and press the rice well into it, turn it out neatly and fill with whatever currie or ragoAt you think pro- per. This is the cleanest and most pa- latable method. Rice Cheese.*—Boil an ounce of rice, thick as hasty pudding, in rather less than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it hot on an ounce and half of butter, the same weight of Lisbon sugar, mixing it well together; let it stand till cold ; then add one egg, and the yolk of another, and a little white wine. Rice Cream * — Mix some rice flour with half a glass of cold milk ; then by degrees, add a pint more, also cold, and put it with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, set it on a slow fire for an hour and a half, then strain and flavour it with orange- flower water, sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It should be stirred fre- quently whilst boiling; eggs may be added if you think proper. Rice (Croquettes of).*—Wash and scald a quarter of a pound of rice, put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, shred small, a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped orange flowers, an ounce of butter, and half a pint of milk; set these on the fire, and when the rice is quite soft, add the yolks of four eggs, stir them in over the fire, but do not let them boil; pour the preparation on a large tin or slab, spread it equally ; let it cool, and then divide it into small equal parts; roll these into balls, dip them into an omelet, roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes are of a nice colour, drain, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and serve them. Rice (Croquettes of) stuffed with Mar- malade.—Simmer your rice till thoroughly done and quite thick in some sweetened milk as for sweets, form a croquette, make a hole in the middle into which you intro- duce the marmalade close it up; egg and bread crumb them twice over, fry them of a nice colour in lard, and serve hot. Rice Custards without Cream *—One tea-spoonful of rice-flour, a pint of new milk, the yolks of three eggs, a table- spoonful of ratafia (or two or three laurel leaves hoiled in), sugar to your taste; mix the rice very smooth, and stir it with the eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. Arrowroot is better than rice. Rice Flummery.—Boil a pint of new milk, with a bit of lemon peel and cinna- mon ; then mix just sufficient rice flour, with a little cold milk, as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten ac- cording to taste, flavour with a little pounded bitter almond; boil it, taking care not to let it burn ; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When the flummery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Fritters.—(See Croquettes of 11 ice)*R1C ltIC 460 only, cut them out of the cold prepared rice with cutters, so that your fritters may be flat instead of in balls. Rice (G&teau. of).*—Boil a quart of cream, add to it half a pound of powder sugar, and three quarters of a pound of rice; when the latter is quite soft, dis- solve in it a quarter of a pound of butter, and nutmeg, and then put in the grated rind of a lemon, let it cool. When quite cold, stir in four yolks, and four whole eggs, more if the rice he very thick; butter a mould and sprinkle it well with bread crumbs, put the rice into it, place the mould in hot ashes, so that it may be completely enveloped in and covered with them ; in an hour the g&teau will be done enough; then turn it out, and serve. If you wish, you can make a souffle, by whipping the whites of six eggs; like other sovjflts, in this case it should he served in a silver dish. In putting the preparation into the mould, be careful not to fill it, as the rice would swell and run over the edge : it may be baked in a mo- derate hot oven, and currants may be added. Rice Milk*—Allow an ounce of rice for each person, wash it thoroughly in warm water; set some milk on the fire, and when it boils, put in the rice; con- tinue to boil it over a slow fire, stirring often for two or three hours ; add salt or sugar according to taste, and cinnamon. Rice Pancakes.*—Boil half a pound of rice in a small quantity of water, until quite a jelly ; as soon as it is cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little salt and nutmeg ; make eight ounces of butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, adding to the whole as much butter as will make the batter thick enough. They must be fried in ns small a quantity of lard as possible. Rice Paste,* — Rub three ounces of butter Well into half a pound of ground rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out with a little flour. Rice Pudding (Boiled).* — Take six ounces of whole rice, and when sufficiently boiled, stir in a table-spoonful and n half of suet, shred fine ; when that is melted, take it up, add one egg, and two ounces of moist sugar. Boil these together three quarters of an hour. Rice Pudding, with Currants* — Tie five ounces of whole rice in a cloth, leav- ing it room to swell, boil it half an hour, then take it up, add three table-spoonsful of suet, shred fine, five ounces of currants, and two eggs, well beaten ; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a half. Rice Pudding (Boiled)* — Well wash and pick some rice, tie it in a cloth, leaving plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity of water for an hour or so. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Rice (Dutch) Pudding. — Soak four ounces of rice for half an hour, in warm water ; then drain the water from it, and put it into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and let it simmer until tender. When cold, add four whole eggs, well beaten, three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a good- sized piece of lemon peel, and two ounces of butter melted in cream. Line a dish or mould, with light puff paste, put in the above, and bake in a quick oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit. — Swell the rice in a little milk over the fire ; then mix with it either currants or gooseber- ries scalded, or apples pared and quar- tered, raisins, or black currants, add one egg to the rice, to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. Rice (Ground) Pudding.—Boil a very large spoonful of ground rice in a pint of new milk, with lemon peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten ; put a puff paste round your dish, put in the above, and bake : put currants if you like. Rice Pudding (Small).—Simmer two large spoonsful of rice in half a pint of milk until it is thick, then add to it a bit of butter the size of an egg, and about half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, well beaten, sugar and nutmeg according to taste, add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter some little cups, lay some orange or citron at the bottom, and. fill them about three parts full with the above. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slow oven. Serve the moment before they are to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Savoury,—Carefully wash and pick some rice; set it to stew very gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt. When it is swelled, it should not be boiled to mash, put it to dry on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire. You may serve it dry, or put it in the mid- dle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having first heated it. Rice Soup. — Carefully blanch some461 ROA ROO well picked rice, theu drain it ou a sieve; put about a teacupful in the soup pot, with one head of celery, and a quart of I consomme, and let it simmer by the side of the stove for three hours. If it thickens too much add more consomme, season with a little salt; take out the celery, and send the soup to table. Rice Soup.*—Wash your rice well in warm water, changing it frequently; then put the rice into a saucepan, with some good stock ; set it on the fire, and leave it to swell for half an hour, but do not let it boil; when the rice has imbibed all the stock, add a sufficient quantity to cover the rice, cover, and boil it slowly for two hotirs; in the mean time broil two or three slices of beef, and pepper and salt them well; when of a nice dark colour, throw them into the rice soup, to which they will impart a rich flavour and a fine colour. Rice d la VHnilienne*—Boil some rice in good broth, and when soft, mis them with beef marrow, pounded almonds, su- gar, and orange-flower water; set these on a gentle fire, and when of a good consist- ence, pour it on a dish ; glaze, and colour it with a salamander. RISSOLES a la d’Artois.—Make a sort of forcemeat of chicken, partridge, rabbit, for sweetbread, &c. (see Croquettes'), and make a rissole paste (see Coltops), which roll out very thin ; make the force- meat into little round balls, and place them at equal distances on the paste; e«-f them lightly, and turn the end over ; cut them with the gigging iron to the shape of a scallop, prick each of them, and fry them quickly in lard ; lay them on paper as you do them ; serve them very hot, with a napkin under them. ROACH.—The roach is a very coarse and bony fish : those which are taken from rivers are very superior to those which are taken from ponds. They are in season in April and May. Roach (Boiled).—Scale, gut, and wash them ; wipe them, cut them in three or four places on the sides ; put into a stew- pan some small beer, vinegar, and water, 1 (enough to cover the fish), some salt a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, and a stick ' of horseradish sliced ; when it boils, put i in the fish. Serve with anchovy sauce! Roach (Fried). — Scale and gut "the ‘! roach. wash them in salt and water, wipe -'them exceedingly dry; flour, and fry ’ them in boiling lard ; they must he brown •' and crisp; lay them in a warm dish • pour the fat out of the pan, put in a piece of butter, and when it boils, fry some sage and parsley crisp; lay it ou the roach. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROCAMBOLE, or 1 Vi id Garlic.*— Peel some rocamboles, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water; set them on the fire, until they will yield easily to pres- sure, then throw them into cold water. Reduce some veloute, thicken it a little, and the rocamboles being cold, drain and put them in ; give them a toss over the fire, and then serve. ROLLS.—Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, then add a spoonful and a half of yeast of small-beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put in the above. Set it to rise for an hour; knead it well; make it into even rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. Rolls (French). — Rub one ounce of butter into a pound of flour; then add to it one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and a sufficient quantity of milk, to make a dough of moderate stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead it; let if rise, and bake on tins. Rolls (French) .—Warm three spoonsful of milk, and the same quantity of water with a bit of butter the size of a walnut! put it to two spoonsful of thick yeast; put this into the middle of rather more than a quart of flour, mix the whole together to the consistence of a batter-pudding, addino- more flour if necessary, to make it the proper thickness; strew a little flour over it from the sides, and if the weather is cold set it at a little distance from the fire; do this three hours before it is put into the oven ; when it breaks a good deal through the flour and rises, work it into a lio-ht paste with more warm milk and water “let it lie till within a quarter of an hour of setting into the oven, then work them lightly into rolls; flour a tin, and drop them on, handle them as little as possible ; pet them before the fire. About twenty minutes will be sufficient time to bake them; put a little salt into the flour. Rasp the rolls. 1 Rolls Short (Hot).*—Dry before the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make three penny rolls, or larger if you like : add to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, two spoonsful of yeast, and a little warm milk ; make it into a light dough, let it stand in a warm place all night. Bake the rolls in a quick oven. ROOTS (Fetites Racines) *— Cut some young carrots into small pieces, about an inch and a half long, make them round.ROS 46‘2 ROS and keep all as near of a size as possible; put them into a saucepan ofboiling water, and let them boil five minutes, then change them into cold water, and finish like Rocamboles (see that article). Turnips and button onions the same. ROSES (Candied).*—Crisp two hands- ful of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, boil them to fort souffle, then take the pan from the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the syrup run from the leaves, rubbing the latter in your hands, then dry them in a stove. Roil your sugar again to souffle, adding a little carmine to colour it, and finish it in the same manner as Jonquils, Candied. (See that article.) Roses ( Conserve of ).*—Boil half a pound of sugar to fort souffle, pour into this syiup the best double-distilled rose-water ; boil it again to fort perle, mix with it a little prepared cochineal or carmine to colour it, and pour your conserve into moulds. Rose (Red) Drops* — Take a small quantity of red bastard saffron, and a little calcined alum, boil these in some water until it is sufficiently tinged for your pur- pose ; then filter or strain it through a very close linen cloth ; put five or six spoonsful of sifted sugar into the pan, dilute it with the coloured water, work it well with the bois a, tabeller, and set it over a chafing dish; when it begins to boil, add two more spoonsful of sugar, and having worked it well, perfume it with some drops of essence of roses, and finish as directed. (See Orange-flower Drops.) Rose Gateaux Souffle.*—Take a handful of rose leaves and a pound of sugar ; boil the latter to petit boule or petit casse, then put in the roses, increase the boiling to casse ; bave ready a glace royale, made with the white of an egg, tinged a delicate rose colour with a little carmine, mix this with your syrup and roses, stirring it rapidly ; when the sugar rises the second time, pour it into the mould. _ . r ■ i Rose Ice Cream.*—Put a quart of rich cream into a saucepan, set it on the fire, when it boils take it off and put in a band- ful of fresh rose leaves ; leave them to in- fuse, keep them covered for two hours; then, if the cream be cold, strain and pour it on the yolks of nine eggs, beat them up well, ndd three quarters of a pound of nowder sugar; set it on a slow fire, and stir it constantly till it thickens, taking care that it does not boil. Run it through a bolting, and when cold, colour it with a little carmine dissolved in clarified sugar ; put it into a sabotiere, and freeze as usual (See Ice). Rose Jelly*—Make a clear apple jelly, colour it with cochineal infused in double- distilled rose water, and just before the last boiling put in half a glass of the best double-distilled rose water. Roses (Oil of).*—Take three pounds of picked roses, and distil them by bain- marie in two quarts of brandy. Dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of river water, boil it up twice; when cold, add to it half a pound of double-distilled rose water ; mix if. with the brandy, filter, and bottle it. This liqueur is greatly improved by dis- solving the sugar in cold rose water. Rose Water (Double-distilled).* — The rose generally chosen for this purpose, is the common pale (single or double) rose, but the white rose is best of all. Gather the flowers in fine weather, two hours after sun-rise ; take out the calix, and se- parate the leaves, pound them in a marble mortar to a paste, and leave them five or six hours in the mortar; then put them into a large close cloth, and let two per- sons wring it with all their strength. Ha- ving by this operation obtained four pounds of juice, infuse in it an equal weight of fresh rose leaves for twenty- four hours ; at the end of that time put the whole into the alembic, which place in a sand bath, and distil it according to rule. (See Distilling.) When you have collected about an ounce of the water, unlute the receiver, and if that which issues from the still is as odori- ferous as that which proceeded first, con- tinue the operation ; but if not, collect it into another vessel, as this second water is only single, and must be kept separate from the first, which is the Essential Water. Should tlie second water have an unplea- sant smell (caused by the application of too much heat), expose it to the sun for a few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. The utmost care is necessary in distilling this and all other odoriferous substances. A still more powerful essence than the above may be procured by the following method: Gather as many roses as will afford thirty pounds of leaves, pound these with four pounds of salt; when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in layers with salt between each, press them closely, corn them tight, leave die vessel twelve days, and then distil as usual. Rose Water (Single).* - Put four463 RUS ROT pounds of rose leaves into a pan with three quarts of river water, and leave it four-and-twenty hours ; then put it into a metal alembic, and distil from it as much odoriferous water as you can, being sure to stop the moment you observe the phlegm. Take off the alembic, throw away its contents, and rinse it out well; after this, fill it to two-thirds with fresh- gathered rose leaves, on which pour the above drawn rose water; distil this, and when you have procured as much good rose water as it will yield, let the fire go out gradually. Rose Vinegar.*—Infuse rose leaves in the best white vinegar, leave it where it will be exposed to the sun for ten days ; then draw it oft', press all the liquor from the dregs, filter and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. ROSEMARY Vinegar.*—This is made in the same manner as Lavender Vinegar. ROSSOLIS.*—Take three quarters of a pound of picked orange flowers, a pound of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, and two cloves (both bruised) ; put them into acurcurbite with three gallons of pure water; on distilling this, it will yield a gallon and a half, in which dissolve twelve pounds of fine sugar broken up ; add to it an equal quantity of spirit of jessamine, colour it crimson with cochineal, filter and bottle it. ROTI, Sans Panel*—Fill a good- sized olive with chopped capers and an- chovies, soak it in oil, and put it into a becca-fica, or any other equally delicately flavoured small bird ; enclose this in a larger one, such as an ortolan ; then take a lark, cut off the head and feet, put the or- tolan in it, cover it with a thin slice of bacon, the lark into a thrush, the thrush into a quail, the quail into a lapwing, this into a plover, then a partridge, enclose the partridge in a woodcock, then a teal, a turkey poult, a wild duck, a pullet, and a pheasant, cover this latter with a goose, after which a turkey, and enclose the whole in a bustard. If in proceeding as above, any spaces are left, fill them up with afarce made of truffles, chesnuts, and sausage meat; put it into alarge saucepan with small onions stuck with cloves, car- rots, ham, cut in small pieces, celery, a bouquet garni, a mignonette, slices of bacon, a clove or two of garlic, pepper, salt, spices, and coriander; set your saucepan on a gentle fire or in a moderate oven for twenty-four hours; skim, and serve it verv hot. ROCJX for thickening various things.— Put what quantity of butter you like into a stewpan that has a thick bottom, melt the butter and stir in as much fine dry flour as it will absorb without making it too stiff; set it for at least two hours on a very slow stove, keeping it constantly well stirred with awooden spoon, to preventits burning ; when very smooth and of a clear light brown colour, put it by to use as oc- casion may require. It will keep good a long time. If in a hurry, place it on a quicker fire, and a few minutes will be sufficient to do it. Roux White*—Prepare your butter and flour as above, place it on a moderately heated stove, stirring it constantly till very hot; be careful that it does not take colour at all, for the whiter it is the more de- sirable. RUFFS and Rees.—These are particu- larly delicate birds, and should therefore he handled very lightly in the picking ; they must be run, side by side, upon a long skewer, and roasted for twelve or fourteen minutes at a good distance from the fire, and basted with butter; serve with good gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a boat. RUM Jelly.—To a quart bottle of com- mon white wine, add a pound of lump sugar reduced to a syrup and clarified ; then take an ounce of isinglass, dissolve it thoroughly, strain it through a sieve, and mix it with the syrup milk warm; when this mixture is nearly cold, pour it into the white wine, stir it well so as to mix it completely; then add a spoon- ful (or rather more, according to the strength you desire) of old Jamaica rum; stir it and pour it into a mould ; or glasses, if intended to hand round for even- ing parties, or after having made clear calves foot jelly add rum sufficient to flavour it; this is sometimes called puncli jelly. RUSKS.—Melt four ounces of butter in half a pint of new milk; then add to this seven eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, put this mixture, by degrees, into as much flour as will make an extremely light paste, more like butter, and set it to rise before the fire for half an hour; then add more flour to make it rather stiffer, but not too stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and brown them a little in the oven.SAL 464 SAL S. SAGO.—Let it soak for an hour in cold water, to take off the earthy taste ; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more water, and simmer gently until the berries are clear, with lemon peel and spice. Add wine and sugar according to taste, and boil all up together. Sago Milk.—When well cleansed, boil it slowly with new milk. A small quan- tity will be sufficient for a quart of milk, it swells so much, and when done, it should be reduced to about a pint. It requires neither sugar nor flavouring. Saco Pudding. — Boil two ounces of sago with some cinnamon, and a bit of lemon peel, till it is soft and thick ; mix the crumb of a small roll finely grated, with a glass of red wine, four ounces of chop- ped marrow, the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, sugar according to taste ; when the sago is cold, add this mixture to it; stir the whole well together, and put it in a dish lined with a light puff paste, and set it in a moderate oven to bake ; when done, stick it all over with citron cut in pieces, and almonds blanched and cut in slips. Sago Pudding. — Boil two ounces of sago until tender, in a pint of milk ; when cold, add five eggs, two Naples biscuits, a little brandy, and sweeten according to taste; put this into a basin and boil. Serve with melted butter mixed with wine and sugar. Sago Pudding*—Wash half a pound of sago in several waters (warm) ; then put it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, and a little cinnamon ; let it boil till thick, stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and heat up with it half a pound of fresh butter; add to it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, beaten separately, half a class of white wine, sugar according to taste, and a little flour; mix all together well, and boil or bake it. Serve with sweet sauce. . Saco Soup. — Wash your sago in the same manner as rice, and boil it in fou consnmm6 until quite a jelly ; have ready a puree of game, heated in the bain-marie; mix the sago with this, whilst both are boiling hot; if too thick, add more fowl consommd, and glaze of game; soak your bread as usual, and serve the soup. SALAD.*—Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, thoroughly wash them, and drain the water from them; then cut them into small pieces, and intermix them with small salad, celery, and beet root cut into pieces, sliced cucumber, and an egg boiled hard, cut into pieces, and gar- nished about; then make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, which rub well together in a basin with a wooden spoon; add a little pepper, salt, and mus- tard ; when these are mixed to a smooth paste, put in a few tea-spoonsful of sweet oil, mixing it well between each spoonful, then mix in a few tea-spoonsful of vinegar in the same manner. When the sauce is mixed according to the directions, it will never require shaking, and will always look like cream. Pour this sauce over the salad, or serve it in a cruet. Salad (Parisian).*—Take five very red carrots, and as many turnips, cut all these with a root cutter into round pieces an inch long, and three-eighths of an inch in diameter ; cut some asparagus heads and Trench beans of the same length; toss them all up in a little oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, tarragon, chervil, and minced shalot. Cut three large parboiled pota- toes, and a red beet root, into slices half an inch thick, one wide, and two and a half long; cut these again into long tri- angles ; place them on a dish alternately, that is, the slices of potatoe with the point upward, and the beet root between each, with the point downwards ; set them round the dish, so as to form a crown six inches in diameter; to give it consistence, pour over the bottom of the dish some aspic jelly, and put it on ice to set it; then take thirty champignons, pierce the centre of each, and in these holes stick asparagus heads, French beans, carrots, or beet-root, all cut into round pieces, an inch and a half long ; dip the champignons into aspic jelly, a little set, and place them alternately on the beet root; when all are done, pour vour maetdaine of carrots, Ac., into the crown ; mask it lightly with a white mag* nonnaise, in the centre fix a fine lettuce heart, with hearts cut in halves or quarters, and serve your salad. SALLY Lu.ms*—Take three quarts ot dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a quarter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufficient quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks ot three eggs, and a little salt: make these ingredients into a light dough, let it stand before the fire (covered) for an hour to rise, and bake in a quick oven. 1 be above may be made into small cakes. . SALMAGUNDY. —This is a very pretty small dish, if in nice shape, and U465 SAL SAL the colour of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose, chop separately the white part of a cold chicken, or veal, the yolks of four or five eggs, and the same number of whites of eggs ; a large handful of parsley, six anchovies, some beet root, pickled red cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any thing well flavoured, and of a good colour. Put a saucer or china basin into a dish, or a smaller dish into a long one, then make rows round it, wide at the bottom, and growing smaller towards the top; making choice of such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colour; spun butter at the top, or butter worked into what is liked, or a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in. You need not, unless you please, put any thing in the dish, as the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may he made to stand upright by cutting off a little bit at the round end. in the latter case, each half egg has hut one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. SALMON.—When salmon is fresh and good, the gills and flesh are of a bright red, the scales clear, and the whole fish is stiff. When just killed, there is a white- ness between the flakes, which give great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish becomes richer. Salmon (Baked).—Cut a nice piece of salmon into slices about an inch thick ; make a forcemeat as follows: Take equal quantities of the flesh of salmon, and flesh of eel, with a few mushrooms ; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves, beat all together till very fine ; boil the crumb of a small roll into some milk, heat it with four eggs till it is thick, let it cool, and bind the whole together with four raw eggs; take the skim from the salmon, and put the slices in a dish, cover each slice with the forcemeat, pour melted butter over them, and strew bread crumbs all over: lay a crust round the dish, and place oysters all round ; put it in the oven, and let it bake till of a fine brown colour, then take it out, pour over it a little melted butter, with some red wine boiled in it, and the juice of a lemon. Salmon en BuriL*—Take a moderate- sized salmon, lay it open, and take out the bone; cut away the thin part, the head, and the tail, so as to make each side quite straight. Have ready a quenelle farce of smelts, spread a layer of this over each slice, which roll up in the form of a barrel, make the ends of it quite smooth, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and roll them up in a sheet of paper, place them on a baking-pan, pour on them a ma- rinade cuite, and bake them. When done, take off the papers carefully, so as not to injure the form; dish and serve with a ragout of carp roes : or, if better liked, glaze and serve with sauce piquante. Salmon au Bleau.—Drain a salmon with- out ripping up the stomach, wash and thoroughly dry it; put it in a fish-kettle, and let it stew for two hours, more or less, according to the size of the fish, in a good marinade ; let tire court-bouillon boil slowly, otherwise the fish will never go throu°h. Before serving, drain it, place on a clean napkin, and garnish with parsley. Salmon (Boiled).—Salmon requires being well boiled, as it is very unwholesome when underdone. Some boil horseradish in the water ; fried smelts may be laid round it; garnish with horseradish and sliced lemon. Serve with anchovy sauce and plain butter. Salmon (Boiled). — Run a packthread through the tail, the centre of the body, and the head, to bring the fish to the form of the letter S ; put it into a kettle of cold spring water with plenty of salt, and a sheet of paper over it; as soon as it begins to boil, set it by the side of the fire to simmer gently till done ; take out the packthread without breaking the salmon. Serve it on a fish-plate with lobster sauce in a boat. You must cut about three gashes or slits, in a slanting direction, on both sides of the salmon, before boiling, to prevent the skin breaking and disfiguring the fish. Salmon boiled in Wine.—Season with pepper and salt, some slices of bacon, fat and lean together, a pound of veal cut thin, and a pound and a half of beef; put these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece of fresh salmon cut out of the middle, then pour in just as much water as will cover it, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the salmon is almost done; then pour the water away, and put in two quarts of white wine, with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and swoet marjoram, picked front the stalks; let them stew gently, and while they are doing, cut a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut the slices across, and stew them in a sauce- pan, with some rich gravy; when they are done enough, add a quarter of a pint of essence of ham: take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, and serve with the sweet- bread, and its sauce poured over. 2 n4d6 SAL SAL Salmon (Broiled.).— Season some slices cut'about au inch in thickness, with pep- per and suit; wrap each slice in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire for six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. Salmon broiled twice.—Steep some slices of salmon in a- mixture of lemon juice, sweet oil, salt, and coarse pepper, hroil till half done ; then dip them in some butter and stock, mixed with parsley and young onions, shred ; finish broiling, and and serve with a little lemon juice and bread crumbs, grated very fine, strewed over. Salmon (Collared).—Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash, and wipe it, then rub it well inside and out to season it very high, with salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, all well mixed together. Then roll it tight and bind it; put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it; add bay leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the liquor quick, and pour over it when cold. Serve with fennel. Salmon (Crimped).—When the salmon is scaled and gutted, cut off the head and tail, and cut the body through into slices an inch and a half thick, throw them into a large pan of pump water; when they are all put in, sprinkle a handful of bay salt upon the water, stir it about, and then take out the fish ; set a large deep stewpan on the fire, boil the head and tail, hut do not split the head ; put in some salt; when they have boiled ten minutes, skim the water very clean, and put in the shoes ; when they are sufficiently boiled, take them out, lay the head and tail in the centre of the dish, and the slices round. You may, if you please, dress the head and tail alone, and serve another time. Salmon (Croquettes <>j ).* — Boil your salmon in a court-bouillon, and when cold, prepare them in the same manner as cro- Lettes of salt cod. (See that article.) Salmon (Dried).—Cut the fish down, take out the inside and the roe. Scale it and rub the whole with common salt, and han" it to drain for twenty-four hours. Pound throe or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar; mix these well, and rub into the salmon, and lay it on a InTge dish for two days, then rub it well With com- mon salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place, keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through ; egg sauce and mashed potatoes are usually served with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the bead. Salmon (Dried) to dress. — Pull 'some dried salmon into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled bard and chopped large ; put the salmon and the egg into half a pint of thin cream, and three ounces of butter, rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; skim it, and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. Salmon (Dried) to dress.—Lay it in soak for two or three hours, then broil it, shaking a little pepper over it. Salmon, Glued au Maigre.*—Empty and clean a good-sized salmon, and lard it with anchovies and eels ; open the fish, take out the hone, and fill it with a farce composed of tench, perch, 6cc., minced and mixed with artichoke-bottoms, truffles, morels, &c., also minced, and sweet herbs, kneaded together with fresh butter. Tie up the salmon, and put it into a saucepan with eels, crayfish, carp roes, truffles, £cc., moistened with equal quantities of maigre broth and white wine ; stew this until the fish is tender and well-flavoured; then serve it, with its liquor, reduced to the proper consistence for sauce. Salmon (Marinated).*—Take two hand- some slices of salmon, and marinate them in oil and lemon juice, with salt and pep- per; broil them about two thirds, and then put them into a saucepan with their marinade; set them on hot ashes to simmer for half an hour, then put them on a dish, cover them with grated bread, colour the whole with a salamander, and serve. Salmon (Pickled).— Cut a salmon into two or tlireo pieces, put it in a fish-kettle, and set it on the fire with a sufficient quantity of water to cover it, and plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to boil, set it aside to simmer very gently until done , then take it off the fire, and let it stand m the liquor until cold; take it out, lay t e pieces close together in a tub to pickle, and over them five anchovies, a small quantity of pounded saltpetre, and a quar- ter of a pint of sweet oil; being thus pre- pared, put the top of the salmon liquor into a stewpan, to which add the sameSAL SAL 467 quantity of wliite-wine vinegar; put it on the fire to skini, and boil it for two or three minutes; take it oil’, and let it cool. When cold, pour it over the salmon and tie it down ; in three days turn it, and in a week’s time it will be fit for use; this is merely in a small way; a great quantity being done at once, requires neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnished with fen- nel. Salmon (Pickled)to dress.—Soak apiece of pickled salmon all night in pump water; then lay it on a fish-plate, and put in a stewpan, with three spoonsful of vinegar, a little mace, some whole pepper in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nutmeg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; cover the stewpan very close, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for a quar- ter of an hour; then take up the salmon, laj>- it in a dish, keep it hot before the fire; let the sauce boil till it is of a proper con- sistence ; take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, and serve the sauce over the fish. Salmon Pie (Hot).*—Take the skin and bone from a piece of salmon; cut it in pieces, which lard with eel and anchovies; dress them in a little butter, with some sweet herbs, salt, and spices ; when done, take out the herbs and mix them with fish quenelles; let the fish cool, and then lay it in a deep dish lined with puff paste; put in also the quenelles, cover your pie, and bake it. Pour an Italienne into it, and serve. Salmon( Potted).—Scale and wipe a large piece of salmon, but do not wash it; salt it thoroughly, then let it lay till the salt is melted and drained from it; then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pep- per ; lay in some bay leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and set it in the oven to bake; when tho- roughly done, chain it from the gravy, pound it, put it into pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter. Salmon (Rolled).—Take half a salmon, bone it, cut oft' the head, scale and wash it; make a forcemeat with oysters cut small, some parsley chopped fine, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace; put tills to the salmon, and roll it up tight; put it into a very deep dish, and set it to bake in a quick oven. Serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce poured over. Salmon (Salad of).*—Put into a sauce- pan four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, two of liquid jelly, ten of oil, a minced ravigote salt, and pepper; cut a boiled salmon into pieces, put them into the above sauce to colour them, When cold, lay them on adish, and pour the sauce over, adding the salad. SALOOP.—Boil a little water, wine, lemon peel, and sugar together; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, pre- viously rubbed smooth, in a little cold water; stir the whole well together, and boil for a few minutes. SALPICON.*—This is a mixture com- posed of various articles, such as sweet- breads, fat livers, tongue, bam, champig- nons, truffles, &c., previously dressed, cut into dice, and cooked in some rich sauce, and seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, cloves, shalots, sweet herbs, and a little butter; take care that all the articles are sufficiently boiled before they are cut up. Many things, such as beef palate, fowl, cocks’ combs ; indeed almost any article you please, may be added to the above. Salpicon (Omelet of)*—Whip up a dozen eggs, and fry half the number as usual in butter ; then lay the omelet in a dish, spread a salpicon, composed of carp roes, livers, &c. of fish, all over it; make a second omelet of the remaining eggs, lay it on the salpicon, and serve with any sauce you please. Salpicon Toast.*—Make a salpicon with veal sweetbreads, morels, artichoke bot- toms, and a slice of streaked bacon, all cut into dice ; put them into a stewpan, with some veal or fowl gravy ; set the pan on the fire, and then thicken the salpicon with the yolks of four eggs. Cut some thin slices of bread (have all the same thick- ness) ; toast, and spread the salpicon over, and lay them in sandwiches; beat up some whites of eggs, which, with a spoon, pour all over the toast. Then fry them in a very hot pan, serve with veal or mutton gravy, or blond. SALSIFY.*—Salsify in a black root, scrape it well, taking care to leave no spots; then soak it in vinegar and water ; fill a saucepan with water: add to it an ounce of butter, four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, and some salt; set it on the fire, and as soon as the water boils, put in the salsify, and let it boil till tender. Drain, and servo either with white or brown sauce. Salsify (Fried).*—When the salsify is dressed as above, drain, and boil it lightly in a white sauce, and let. it cool ; then dip it in a batter, and fry it. Salsify is like- 2 it 2SAU SAM 468 wise sometimes soared in a marinade of vinegar, with salt and pepper, previous to frying. SALTING Meat.—Meat for salting is the better for hanging three or four days before it is put into the brine ; great care should he taken that all the kernels and bloody veins he extracted, and the meat wiped perfectly dry. When a large quantity is to he salted, it is best to put it into a large vessel, either of stone, wood lined with lead, or wood only, and cover it with a brine made of salt and water, suf- ficiently strong to allow an egg to float on the top. If only a single joint is required, rub it thoroughly with salt, and when com- pletely covered, lay it in a pan, and turn and rub it every day, until wanted. SALT (Spiced).*—Take four drachms of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two of white pepper, two of allspice, two of mace, two of hay leaf, two of basil, and two of thyme (these three latter articles should be dried in an oven). Put these all into a mortar, and pound them to an impalpable powder, and sift it. lake a pound of fine white salt, dry it thoroughly in an oven, or stove, pound it as fine as possible; sift, and mix with it an ounce of the abovementioned spices; amalgamate them thoroughly, keep the spiced salt in a tin box, which will shut perfectly close. Use it in the following proportion : Four drachms to a pound ot boned veal. . SAMPHIRE (to dry, or preserve).— Take it in hunches as it grows ; set alarge deep stewpan full of water on the file ; as soon as it boils, throw in a little salt, and put in the samphire; when it looks of a fine green, remove the pan directly from the fire, and take out the samphire with a fork ; lay it on sieves to drain ; when cold, lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well over it, next day turn them on a sieve, and strew it again with sugar, keep turning daily until it is dry; take care the stove is not too hot. Samphire (to pickle). — Lay some sam- phire that is green in a pan, sprinkle over it two or three handsful of salt, and cover it with spring water, and let it lay for twenty-four hours; then put it into a large brass saucepan ; throw in a handful of salt; cover the pan close, and set it over a very slow fire; let it stand till 11 is quite green and crisp; then take it oft, for if it becomes soft it is spoiled ; put it into a jar, cover it close, and when it is cold, tie it down. SARDINIAS ( Fresh ).*—Take two dozen fresh sardinias, dry them thoroughly, flour, and fry them in clarified butter. They are also salted and eaten in the same manner as anchovies; for which they are frequently used as substitutes. SAUCE.— Few things require more care than making sauces, as most of them should be stirred constantly, the whole at- tention should he directed to them; the better way therefore, is to prepare the sauces before cooking those articles which demand equal care; they may be kept hot in bain-marie. Butter, and those sauces containing eggs, ought never to boil. The thickest stewpan should be used for making sauces, and wooden spoons used for stir- ring them. There is so great a variety of sauces, that it would nearly fill a volume to enu- merate them all. A few of the principal are subjoined, and for many others, see the respective articles of which they are com- posed. Sauce a VAUemande.*—Put a slice of ham, and some champignons (previously dressed and shred) into a stewpan ; set it on the fire, and when the ham begins to stick, moisten it with stock and consomme, boil and reduce it; then take off the fat, strain the sauce, and add to it some scalded parsley, two fat livers, capers, anchovies, scallions, all chopped, add a hit of butter, put it again on the fire, and when of the requisite consistence, take out the scallions, put in some mignonette and le- mon juice, and strain it for use. Sauce aux Atelets*—Put some veloute, or a hit of butter into a stewpan, with some parsley, slialots, and champignons, all shred small; set them on the fire, and when they begin to fry, add a little stock, roux, pepper, nutmeg, a bay leaf, and salt; reduce the whole to the consistence of a bouillie, take out the bay leaf, put in the yolks of three eggs, and stir till sufficiently thick. Be careful not to let it boil. Sauce a VAurore.*—Mix two dessert- spoonsful of lemon juice with some veloutt ; season with pepper and grated nutmeg; put the mixture into a saucepan, make it quite hot. In the mean time rub the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs through a cullen- der, which put into the sauce just before serving; take care not to let it boil after the eggs are in. Sauce au Bain-Marie.—Take thin slices of fillet of veal, ham, and beef, according to the quantity of sauce you may require, take also some carrots, parsnips, parsleySAU 469 SAU roots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery, also sliced ; put all these into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon ; cover it close and let it stand on hot ashes for sometime; then add equal quantities of white wine and good broth, place the stewpan in the bain-marie, and let the sauce simmer for four hours, when it may be strained for use. Be careful not to put in so much of any single ingredient, that its flavour may predominate over the others. Sauce (Brown).*—Take a pound or two of steaks, two or three pounds of veal, lean ham, some pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions, put all these into a saucepan with a glass of water, and set it on a brisk Are; when scarcely any moisture remains, put it on a slow fire, that the jelly may take colour without burning; and as soon as it is brown, moisten it with stock (or water), add a bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, and some champignons, salt it well, and set it on the fire for three hours, then strain; dilute a little rouse with your liquor, and boil it an hour over a gentle fire, take off all the fat, and run it through a tammy. Sauce (Carrier).*— Scrape a small stick of horseradish, cut an onion or two in thin slices, put these into a sauce-tu- reen with a little vinegar and whole pep- per; set the tureen in the drippingpan under a shoulder of mutton whilst roast- ing ; serve this sauce quite hot with the meat. Sauce a la Diable * — Mince half ; dozen shalots very small, wash and presi out all the moisture ; then put them int< a saucepan with a glass of vinegar, a clovi of garlic, a bay leaf, and some veal glaze i educe it to nearly a jelly, moisten it witl a little good gravy; add pimento butter and a spoonful of olive oil. Sauce (Grande)Take three or fou, slices from the under part of a knuckle ol veal, and put them into a large stewpan th two ladiesful of consomm£, set it on a fierce fire, taking care to skim it as much as possible, and with a cloth wipe away all that adheres to the inside of the stewpan ; when the consomme is reduced .prick the slices with a knife to let out the gravy ; then set the stewpan on a slow lire that the meat and glaze may adhere together, and as soon as the latter is of a clear light colour, take it off, leave it co- vered for ten minutes, then fill it up with rich stock, in which is four or five larue carrots, and three onions ; let it boil slow- ly for two hours. In the mean time put the knuckle into a saucepan with four or five carrots, as many onions (one stuck with cloves), and two ladiesful of consom- me ; set it on a brisk fire that the liquor may reduce to a jelly, as soon as this jelly begins to take colour, pour on it the liquor from the other saucepan to dissolve the jelly gradually; then make it boil. Dilute some roux with the above liquor, and add it to the meat with some champignons, a bunch of parsley, scallions, and two bay leaves, skim it when it begins to boil, and again when the roux is added, put in more consomme or roux, according as it is too thick or too thin. When it has boiled an hour and a half, take off all the fat; and when the meat is quite done, strain the sauce through a bolting-cloth. Sauce a la Grimod*—Is the same as Sauce a la Portugaise, with the addition of grated nutmeg, two or three allspice bruised, and a little India saffron. Sauce (Harvey).—Chop twelve ancho- vies, bones and all, very small, with one ounce of Cayenne pepper, six spoonsful of soy, six ditto of good walnut pickle, three heads of garlic, chopped not very small, a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, two heads of shalots, chopped not very small, one gallon of vinegar; let it stand four- teen days, stir it well twice or thrice every day ; then pass it through a jelly- hag, and repeat this till it is perfectly clear; then bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork. Sauce (Ilalienne).—Put some lemon parsley, thyme, and mushrooms, shred small, into a stewpan with a little butter and a clove of garlic ; set it on a moderate fire; as soon as the butter begins to fry, pour in a little consomme, and let it stew till pretty thick; then take out the garlic, add some butter sauce and a little lemon juice. Sauce (Italian) for Salads.—Mix to- gether three table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, one of mustard, some tarragon and chervil shred small, with three table- spoonsful of Florence oil; putting in, however, a little at a time; when per- fectly smooth, add also, by degrees, a glass of tarragon vinegar and a little salt. Phis sauce cannot bo mixed too much. Sauce Langucdocienne.*—Put a bit of butter rolled in flour into a saucepan with parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic bruised, a glass of cream, and half a glass of olive oil; set it on the fire, and when the whole is dissolved and incorporatedSAU SAU 470 add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and lemon juice ; let it simmer till of a good consist- ence. Sauce a la Madelaine. — Put a few bread crumbs, two sbred slialots, a bit of butter, half a spoonful of vinegar, and two spoonsful of consommd into a stewpan ; set them on the fire, and give them a boil up together; season with pepper and salt. This sauce should not be too thick. Sauce (Minced).*—Put into a saucepan parsley, shalots, and champignons, of each a spoonful shred, half a glass of vinegar, and a little pepper; set these on the fire till there remains scarcely any vinegar, when add four ladiesful of espagnole, and the same of stock ; reduce, and take the fat from the sauce: when done, put in a spoonful of capers, and two or three gherkins, both shred; pour it into another saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie; just before it is sent to table, pound an anchovy or two with a little butter, which beat up with the sauce. Sauce d’Orleans.*—- Put into a saucepan three or four tea-spoonsful of vinegar, a little pepper, some shalot, and an ounce of butter; reduce this, and add four or five ladiesful of brown sauce. When ready for table, put into your sauce four or five gherkins, the whites of three hard eggs, four or five anchovies, a carrot (all cut into dice), and a spoonful of whole capers ; make it quite hot, but not boiling, and serve. Sauce Piquante.*—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pint of vinegar-, some all- spice, a pinch of pepper, a hay leaf, and a little thyme; let this remain on the fire till reduced to half, then add two ladiesful .of espagnole, and two of stock; set it oil the fire again; when about the consistence of clear bouillie, it is sufficiently done. Put salt according to taste. Sauce (Pluche).*—Put into a saucepan four or five ladiesful of veloute, halt a glass of white wine, a parsley root cut into small pieces, and season with pep- set it on the fire, and when suffici- per; oc .... ently reduced, add some parsley leaves bruised and blanched in salt and water; serve almost immediately. Sauce a. la Portugaise.*— fut mto a saucepan n quarter of a pound of >u ter, the yolks of two raw eggs, a dessert- spoonful of lemon juice, salt, and pepper, according to taste; set it on a module fire, stirring constantly till bot, then ■oannez or mill it rapidly to unite the butter and eggs. Should it be too thick, put a very little water to it. This sauce ought not to be made till just as it is wanted. Sauce au Btitrend.—Chop up some lemon peel, and two or three pickled cucumbers ; put them into a stewpan with two spoonsful of cull is, a little butter rolled in flour, season with salt and pep- per, put it on the fire, and make it quite hot without boiling, stirring all the time, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve. Sauce Robert.*—Cut a few onions into dice, which put into a fryingpan with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly ; when nicely browned, add a dessert-spoonlul of flour, a ladleful of stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper; reduce it to a proper thickness, and when ready^ for table, stir in two dessert-spoonsful of mustard. Sauce Eomaine.*—Cnt a pound of veal, and half a pound of ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan with two legs of fowl, three or four carrots, four onions, two bav leaves, three cloves, a little basil, half a pound of butter, and some salt; set these on a rather brisk fire ; in the mean while pound the yolks of twelve hard eo-gs to a paste, which put to the above, and stir them in till the butter is entirely melted, then pour in by degrees a quart of cream; set the saucepan again on the fire for half an hour, stirring all the time, if it he too thick, add more cream, or milk ; when sufficiently done, strain it through a tammy. Sauce (Sicilian).—Put into a stewpan nearlv a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of essence of Jfiam, ball a lemon peeled and sliced thin, a few coriander seeds and four cloves (the two latter bruised) ; set these on the fire, give one boil and add three cloves of garlic, a head of celery, sliced, two bay leaves, and a little basil; let it stand till reduced to half, pour in a glass of white wine, and strain it. If not sufficiently thick, add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Sauce (Spanish).—'Take the meat from n cold roasted partridge, put it into :i mortar, with partridge livers, and truffles, pound them to a rather liquid paste, moistening with some good gravy. 1 ut two glasses of red wine, two or three slices of onions, a clove or two of garbc, and two glasses of the paste mate it quite hot, and then strain it into another stewpan; add the partridge little essence of ham, season it well, ana let it boil slowly for some time.SAU SAU 471 Sauce (Supreme).*—Put one ladleful of velouti, and four .of essence of fowl, into a saucepan, set it on tlie fire, and when reduced to half, put in a tea-spoonful of parsley, shred small, and scalded, a little fresh butter, half the juice of a lemon, and some pepper; place it on the fire, make it quite hot, hut not boiling; vannez or mill it well, and serve quickly. Sauce (Sweet). — Put some cinnamon into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover it; set it on the file, and when it has boiled up once or twice, add two spoonsful of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two bay leaves ; give the whole one boil, and then strain it for table. Sauce Tournee. — Put three or four pieces of lean ham into a stewpan, with a little butter, and some champignons, set it on a moderate fire, stirring till the butter begins to look clear; then add some routr, put to it three table-spoonsful of strained consomme, stir it in, then add more, at different times, until you have as much as you require. Set it on the fire, and let it boil slowly, stirring constantly ; when reduced to the proper thickness (which is that of good melted butter), strain it through a tammy, to use when occasion requires. Sauce (Universal).—Take half a dozen split shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon leaves, half an ounce of bruised mustard seed, some Seville orange peel, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, double the quantity of long pepper, and two ounces of salt ; put all these ingre- dients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, half a glass of verjuice, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, and a pint of white wine; put them into a jar, cover it as closely as possible, and set it on hot ashes for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time let it stand to settle, and when clear, pour it off carefully, strain, and bottle it. This infusion will keep a long time if tightly corked, and may be used with all kinds of meat or fish. It may also be added to other sauces. Sauce (While).*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of butter, and a tea-spoonful of flour; season with salt and pepper; when well worked up, add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and a little water. Set these on the fire, and stir till thick ; be careful not to let it boil: add a little cream. Sauce (White).—Boil a few bits or bones of chicken, or veal, in a little stock or water, with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a slice of lemon, a little celery, and a few peppercorns ; when you have about half a pint of liquor, strain it, add some good cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, pounded mace and salt; make it quite hot, stirring continually ; when done, flavour it with mushrooms, or lemon juice. Sauce (White Fish).— Simmer together an anchovy, a little horseradish, scraped, some mace, an onion, stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon peel, a glass of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water ; when properly reduced, strain it, and then add two spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour; set it on the fire again, and keep stirring tdl it boils. When ready to serve, put in a little ketchup, andjsome lemon juice. SAUR-BRAUTON.*—To a sirloin of beef of twenty pounds, take one table- spoonful of allspice, four dozen cloves, a lemon sliced, a clove of garlic, laurel and bay leaves, parsley, and sweet herbs, of each a small quantity. Stick the cloves into the meat, which lay in a deep pan, with the above articles over it, and just covered with vinegar. Let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight, turning it daily, and keeping the pan closely covered; two days before dressing the beef, lard, and then replace it in the pickle. Such a piece of beef will require at least eight hours roasting, :and should be done on a cradle spit, a good gravy made to baste it with, as the vinegar may make it too acid. 1 his pickle will be strong enough for a small leg of mutton, and if the vinegar be good, it ought also to serve for a hare. SAUR-KRAUT.*—Have ready a vine- gar, white wine, or brandy cask, about four inches from the bottom of winch put in u vent-peg. Take a number of the best white cabbages, strip off all the outside leaves, and slice the hearts transversely as thin ns possible, until you have as much as you require ; then lay over the bottom of the cask, osier or vine twigs, to the height of the peg; on these put alternate layers of the sliced cabbage, and salt (in the proportion of one pound of the latter to fifty of the former); let each layer of cabbages be at least three inches thick. When the cask is about two thirds full, put cabbage leaves all over; cover them with a cloth, and a round pieco of wood, which will exactly .fit th« inside of the cask, and place u stone orSAU 472 SAU heavy weight on it. In four or five days’ time draw out the peg, and let the brine run off; add more salt, and repeat this ope- ration at intervals of a month at latest, until what flows from the cask is perfectly clear, and free from smell. Some add juniper and carraways to the salt in making saur- krant; be careful to keep the cask in a moderate temperature, during the whole year. Saur-kraut.— Prepare your cask, and slice the cabbages as above ; put the lat- ter into a tub to ferment for some hours (not less than twelve, nor more than twenty-four) ; then make a hole at the bottom of the tub, and press the cabbages hard, to extract all the liquor from them ; when quite dry, put a layer of salt at the bottom of the cask, on which put a layer of the cabbages, on this more salt, pepper, and a few ripe juniper berries; proceed thus alternately until the cask is nearly full; put on a piece of wood, exactly fit- ting the inside of the cask, on which place one hundred and twenty pounds (or more) weight on it. In a few days the brine will form a crust on the top of the cask, when the kraut is fit for use. On taking it out, use a wooden spoon only; merely leave sufficient brine to cover the saur-kraut; lay a wet cloth all over to exclude the air, and then replace the lid and weights. The top of the cask should be frequently washed with salt and water, and part of the brine be drawn occasionallv. Saub-kbaut (to dress).*—Take out as much saur-kraut from the cask as you think sufficient for a dish, and soak it for two hours in cold water; then drain, and put it into a stewpan, with some slices ot streaky bacon, a servelas, and sausages ; add stock, and a little good gravy. Stew it over a slow fire, and serve with the bacon, &c. on it. The skins must be taken from the sausages and servelas, before they are sent to table. SAUSAGES.*—A re composed of various kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly small, with pounded spices, and aromatic herbs, shred fine ; these ingredients are put into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and tied into lengths of from two to five inches. Some persons add to the mixture a glass of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other wine. (For pork, beef, and other sausages, see the respective articles.) SAUSAOEs(Ro/eg?in).*—Take thelegs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut all the lean, scrape it well, remove all the sinews, and rub the meat well with a seasoning made of salt, pepper, coriander, cloves, cin- namon, and bay leaf. When properly fla- voured, take some bacon, lard, and leaf, and cut the whole into dice ; mix the fat and lean together, and put it into ox guts, tie up the ends, and lay the sausages in a pan of water, with salt, and saltpetre; cover the pan close and leave it. In a week’s time take out the sausages and drain them. Tie them between two pieces of wood, hang them up to dry, and smoke. W hen dry, untie them, and rub each over with oil, and the ashes of vine twigs, mixed together. Keep them in a dry place. Sausages of Marchpane*— Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, which put on a tin plate, and place it over a stove to dissolve; as soon as it is so, put it into a pan with a little water, stir it well, and then mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, a small quantity of red santal, half an ounce of cinnamon, and six or eight cloves (all three in powder). When well kneaded together, chop up some blanched almonds, which strew over the slab, roll out your paste on them so that they may stick to its surface, to represent the pieces of fat, and cut it into pieces the length and thickness of sau- sages ; place them on white paper, and leave them for some days to dry, and then bake them in a very moderately heated oven; if they be put in too great a heat they will burst. Sausages au Palatin.* — lake equal quantities of beef steaks, fresh pork, and leaf; pound these together thoroughly, pour on the pounded meat some good Moselle or Rhenish wine ; in about an hour drain off all the wine which has not been sucked up, season with salt, pepper, spices, and ginger, all in powder, and fill your skins as usual. Sausages (Parma).*—Mince equal quan- tities of veal, fresh pork, and leaf; take also on equal portion of Parmesan cheese grated ; mix these articles together, season them with salt, pepper, spices, and corian- der (all pounded) ; fill your skins and tie them into lengths of about three or four inches, and dress them as usual. Sausages (Proven$ale).—Take a pound of fresh pork, half a pound of veal, half a pound of leaf, three onions, and six cloves of garlic ; mince and mix all these dients together, add a dozen truffles boiled in a little white wine, and shred, salt, pepper, and spices, and put the mixture into skins. . ,, .1,. Sausages (Papal). — Mince sina meat of a partridge, a capon, or pu >piece of gammon, and other bacon, and a bit of leg of real ; shred also some parsley, i chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these altogether, and season with pepper, salt, !' beaten spice, and garlic; bind the whole with the yolks of six, the whites of two, eggs, and a little cream ; when thoroughly mixed,roll the preparationintothickpieces, which wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal, well beaten with a rollingpin : each sausage should be about the thickness of a man’s wrist, and of proportionate length. Line an oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin beef steaks, put in the sausages, cover them with beef steaks and bacon, shut the stewpan very close, and set it on a moderate fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it stand ten or twelve hours ; then take it off, and when cold, take out the sausages carefully, remove the veal, and all the fat, with a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve cold. SAVOY Soup.—Cut into quarters and boil in a little water, five large savoys ; strain the water off when they are cool, press them well to drain out all the water, then put them into as much beef gravy as will cover them, cover them very close, and set the saucepan on a moderate fire, and let it stew for two hours ; then set on the fire a large ffyingpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; shake in some flour, and stir till it is brown; peel a couple of onions, put them into the butter and stir it well about ; as soon as they are nicely coloured, add a quart of veal gravy, mix them well together ; soak some crust of French rolls in the gravy in which the savoys are stewed, lay them in a tureen at Ia little distance from each other; then pour in the gravy and onions. SCOTCH Shortbread. * — Take two pounds of flour, dry, and sift it well; then mix with it a pound of powder sugar, tj three ounces of candied citron and orange j peel cut into dice, and half a pound of car- r| raway comfits ; put half a pound of butter into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when ; quite melted, mix it with the flour, &c. ; i the paste being nicely made, roll it out to }the thickness of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay them on white paper, prick and I bake them; they should be of a pale colour. Scotch Dumpling.—Make a paste with [j some oatmeal and butter, form it into a 'i dumpling, and place a haddock’s liver in if the middle, well seasoned with pepper and It salt ; it should be boiled in a cloth. SCUBAC.*—Infuse two ounces of saf- i fron, the zestes of four lemons, those of as many oranges, and a drachm of mace, in three gallons of brandy, for a week, keep- ing the vessel closely covered ; at the end of that time distil it. Dissolve ten pounds of sugar in a gallon and a half of water, stir it into the liqueur, and then filter it. Your liqueur made as above, will be very white and clear. If, however, you wish it of a yellow tinge, after the sugar is dis- solved, and the syrup is cold, add tincture of saffron to it; the quantity regulated by the degree of colour you wish. SEEDS (Sugured).*—These are done in the same manner as sugared almonds. The seeds most generally used for this purpose are anise, cummin, and fennel. The best method of proceeding is as follows : Place a small preserving-pan over a charcoal fire, on the side of which have a chafing-dish, on which keep a pan with a quantity of sugar boiled to lisse (this sugar should be kept quite hot, but not boiling) ; on the other side have some fine powder. When so far prepared, put your seeds into the pan, and as soon as they begin to heat, pour over them a large spoonful or two of the syrup ; stir them about, that all may be thoroughly saturated with it; then sprinkle over it a handful or two of powder, still shaking the pan to make the seeds equally white. When dry, pour on some more syrup, then the powder, and continue this alternately until your seeds are sufficiently large ; then lay them on a sieve, keep them in a warm place for some days, after which put them into glass bottles. SERVELAS.*—According to the num- ber of servelas you intend making, take your quantity of fresh lean pork, mince it small, and mix it with a fourth part of bacon fat (also minced). Season with salt, pepper, spices, nutmeg, anise, and coriander; fill your skins like sausages, tie the ends, and hang them in the chimney to smoke for three days. Then put them into a saucepan of water, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, basil, and a bunch of parsley ; boil them in this for three hours ; drain, and let them cool. Stn velas of Marchpane*—Takoa pound of marchpane paste coloured red as for Marchpune Sausages, and three quarters of a pound of the same uncoloured; cut both into small irregular pieces, mix them toge- ther, and put them into skins the same as the regular servelas ; take particular care that tlie guts are well cleaned, perfectly dry, and transparent; press the pieces in close that they may be quite firm; and474 SHE SHE filled up with a bit of fried bread ; in this having cut them of the proper lengths, moisten your hands with oil of almonds, and rub the servelas well with the palms, until they are quite smooth and shining. These servelas are of an excellent flavour, and will keep a long time. SHALOT Sauce*—Take two spoonsful of the liquor the mutton is boiled in, two spoonsful of vinegar, two or three shalots cut fine, and a little salt; put these ingre- dients into a saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled in flour; let it stew a little, and serve it up with your mutton or beef. Shalot Vinegar.—Put six or eight sha- lots split into a quart bottle ; fill it up with vinegar, stop it; it will he fit for use in a month. ■SHEEP’S Tails (Braised).*— Clean and wash the tails thoroughly ; scald them, and then put them into a saucepan on slices of streaked bacon, with tarragon, a bunch of sweet herbs, turnips, parsley, salt, pep- per, and moisten the whole with consomme; cover them close, and braise them till quite tender; then lay the tails on a dish, and pour the other articles over them: Sheep’s Tails (Roasted).*—Having tho- roughly washed the tails in warm water, scald them for five minutes in boiling water; then cover them completely with bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; fasten the tails to a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. Any sauce vou please may be served with them. Sheep’s Tongues en Brochettes. *—Boil the tongues in some consommt, then cut them into small fillets, cut also bacon into very thin slices, not larger, however, than the tongues ; put these pieces alternately on skewers; cover them with bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs shred, suit, and pepper; lay them on a gridiron, and broil them nicely. Sheep’s Tongues (Broiled).*—Having parboiled the tongues in a little stock, split each, give them u few turns in some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; when well covered with the latter, lay them on u gridiron, and broil them slowly. Sheep’s Tongues en Chemises.*—Boil some tongues in good real or mutton gravy, and in the mean time put into a saucepan a little butter, some sliced onions, pounded bacon, three or four anchovies, shred parsley, snlt, and pepper, mix them well together. Cut some caul into pieces largo enough to con- tain a tongue, in each of which put a little tongue on it, more seasoning, wrap the ends of the caul over the whole ; bread them well with crumbs mixed with shred sweet herbs, and bake them in a moderate oven. Sheep’s Tongues Pie.—Line a dish with some good puff paste, and lay at the bottom . of the dish some good forcemeat, made of roasted poultry, suet, parsley chopped, mushrooms, pepper, andsalt, and a few fine spices ; upon this place the tongues cut in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, a little butter, and a few slices of bacon; put t on the cover and bake it; when done, take out the bacon and ham, skim off all the fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. Sheep’s Tongues (Roasted).*—Take half-a . dozen sheep’s tongues, and having pro- perly prepared them, lard them with small i lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap a but- tered paper round, and fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire; a little before they are done, take off the paper, baste the tongues with butter, and ! make them of a nice colour. Serve with whatever sauce you may prefer. Sheep’s Trotters (Fricassee of).*—Mash the feet well, changing the water frequently, then boil them in some stock ; when nearly done, take out all the bones, leave the meat in the saucepan, add to it a bunch of sweet herbs, a pinch of flour, salt and pepper; when perfectly tender, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve the feet with a little verjuice. Sheep’s Trotters d V Italienne* — Pat some sliced onions, very salt bacon, salt, pepper, mustard, and verjuice, into a sauce- pan, with a little veal gravy ; make it quite hot, and then put in the feet, prev.ously boiled in stock. In half an hour they will be sufficiently flavoured, then serve all together very hot. Sheep’s Trotters in Paste*—Put the feet into a pan with some melted butter, par- sley, scallions, morels, and streaked bacon; set them on the fire, and stew them. Cut some puff paste into twice as many pieces as you have feet, and in every two wrap a foot; close the ends nicely, do them over with yolk of egg. and bake tVem m a moderate oven. Tbe feet should not be boned. . Sheep’s Trotters(Stufed).*—Boil the feet in good stock till the bones will come out with ease; fill the space left by them with a good fowl or chicken/arc* ; dip them m lard, bread them well, and bake them m a moderate oven. . . The space left by the bones is sometimesSHR of the abovementioned seasoning, lay a case the feet are only previously boiled, and then served with cream sauce. SHERBET. * — This is a delicious .beverage, composed of cream, mixed with various articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, coffee, chocolate, &c., and sugar, and then iced. Sherbet may also be made with the juice of various fruits, sweetened to the taste; for the method of preparing which, see the different articles it is usu- ally composed of. When the liquid is suffi- ciently limpid and cold, pour it into a sil- ver or tin sorbetiere, and ice it as usual. (See Ice). SHRIMPS. — Shrimps are chosen by .the same rules as prawns. Snimcps to Butter. —(See the recipe to Butter Prawns.') Shrimps in a Gralin.—Take one or two quarts of shrimps, according to the size you wish your dish ; pick, and toss them in good Mchamelle, with a little lobster spawn pounded and mixed in it, as directed for lobster sauce; make the whole very hot, and add the squeeze of a lemon, then lay it on a dish, and strew' crumbs of bread over it, the same as for other gratins; colour it with the salamander before it is served to table. Shrimps (to grill).—Stew the shrimps in a little water, with salt, pepper, and shred parsley ; butter some scallop shells, put in some grated bread, on which lay the shrimps, cover them with bread, add a little more butter ; set them on a gridiron for a short time, hrown them with a sala- mander, and serve. Shrimp Pie. — Take a quart of nicely- picked shrimps, and season them with two or three anchovies minced very fine, and mixed with some salt, mace, and a clove or two (should the shrimps be very salt, that article must be omitted in the season- ing). Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, then lay in the shrimps, and add a glass of sharp white wine. The paste for this pie should be light and thin. It does not take long baking. Shrimps (Potted).—Let them be nicely boiled, then pick them out of the shells, and season them well with pepper, salt, a little pounded cloves, and a little mace; put them closely together into a pot, and set them for about ten minutes in a slack oven, and when cold, pour over clarified butter. Shrimp Sauce.—Put half apintof picked shrimps into a stowpan, with some butter sauce, and a very little essence of anchovy; 475 SKA make it very hot, add a little lemon juice* and serve it to table. Shrimp Sauce.—Mix a good piece of butter with some flour, boil it up in a little rich gravy; put in the shrimps nicely picked; give the whole one boil. Whether you use water or gravy to make the sauce of, it is a great improvement to pound the shells of the shrimps and boil them in it first, and then proceed as above. SHRUB. * — Put a quart of Seville orange juice to a gallon of rum, with three pounds of lump sugar, and a handful of the peel pared extremely thin; let it stand in the cask for three months, then filter it through a cloth, and bottle it. Siirub.*—Take a quart of orange juice, strain it, put to it two pounds of lump sugar, four quarts and one pint of rum; put half the peels of the oranges into the rum, and let it stand one night, then mix the rum with the orange juice and sugar, put it into a vessel which has a spigot, shake it four or five times daily till the sugar be all dissolved; when it is clear, which may be in about a fortnight, bottle it offfor use. If the oranges are very ripe, a pound and half of sugar is sufficient. SIBERIAN Crabs (to preserve).*—Take their weight in sugar, make a syrup with apple jelly; when well boiled, prick the crabs and put them into it; let them boil a :few minutes, then take them out, put them on a sieve to drain; when nearly cold, put them again into the syrup, boil it a few minutes more, and drain them as before; do this a third time, observing the same rules as at first; then put them into glasses or jars, and pourthe jelly over them, boil- ing. SIPPET Pudding.—Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow, ot beef suet, a layerof currants, and then a layer of bread again, &c., and so continue until the dish is filled ; mix four eggs, well beateu, with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over; set it in the oven, it will take half an hour baking. SKATE.-When good, they are very white and thick; if dressed too fresh, they are hard and unpleasant to the taste ; they should, therefore, be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. Skate (Boiled).—Put it into a fish-kettle with cold spring water and plenty of salt; as soon as it boils, set it aside to simmer gently till done, and serve it on a fish-plate with anchovy sauce in a boat.476 SME SME Skate (Fried). — The skate must be nicely crimped, then tossed in an egg, beaten up with pepper, and salt, then in crumbs of bread, laying them on paper as you do them ; have ready a stewpan nearly full of lard ; when very hot, put in two or three pieces at a time to fry quickly, and when thoroughly done, put them on paper to drain from the fat; serve them to table on a dish garnished with fried parsley, and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. SMELTS.—The smelt is considered an excellent fish when fresh, and have a smell similar to that of a newly-cut cucum- ber ; when good, the scales have a fine silvery hue, and the body is very stiff; when stale, it is flabby. Smelts (Atelets of J.*—Take the fillets from half a dozen smelts, take off the skin, cut each into four /pieces, and trim them; melt some butter, add to it the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper; beat them up well, dip each fillet into this, and roll them; run a skewer through them, so as to prevent their unrolling; put four on each skewer, dip them again into the butter; have ready some bread crumbs, roll the fillets in this very lightly, but so as to cover them completely, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care that all four sides are well coloured. Smelts a la Bonne Eau.*—Clean, and scrape your smelts, nape them with a clean cloth, cut off their heads and tails, and put the fisli into a saucepan, with some parsley, two or three scallions, a bay leaf, water, salt, and pepper; boil them slowly for a few minutes, dish them; add to the liquor some more par- sley, boil it up once or twice, and pour it over the smelts. Smelts (Broiled).*—When the smelts are well cleaned, slit them down the sides, and lay them in oil, with salt and pepper, for a little while; then put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them ; when done, serve either with caper or tomata sauce. Smelts en Caissons.* — Make some paper cases as if for biscuits, into each of which put a little farce maigi-e, com- posed of butter, sweet herbs, small fish minced, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; lay the smelts on this, cover them with bread crumbs, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, serve with whatever sauce you like. Smelts (Fried).*—Scrape your fish, cut off the tails and fins, clean, and wasli them, then replace the livers ; slit them down the sides, flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Drain and sprinkle salt over them. Serve them on a napkin. Smelts are most generally used as a garnish for larger fish. Smelts (Gratin of).* — Prepare your fish as for frying, spread some butter over the bottom of a deep silver dish, on which shred parsley and scallions, and sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; place the smelts on this, cover them with bread crumbs, moisten with a little melted but- ter and white wine; set it on a stove, or in an oven ; brown the top, and serve. Smelts with Herbs*—Boil a bunch of sweet herbs, with some sliced onions, salt, pepper, half a spoonful of oil, and a quart of water; when the liquor is suffi- ciently flavoured, put in the smelts and boil them quickly. Smelts a I’ltalienne. * — Boil your smelts with a large glass of white wine, half a glass of water, two spoonsful of oil, two slices of lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennel. When sufficiently done, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, and serve your fish with its own sauce. Smelts (Pickled').—Wash, clean, and gut a quarter of aj hundred smelts, take half an ounce of nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of pepper, a quarter of a pound of common salt, all beaten very fine; lay the smelts in rows in a jar; be- tween every layer of smelts strew the seasoning, with some bay leaves; boil a sufficient quantity of red wine to cover them; pour it boiling hot over them, cover the jar with a plate; when cold, tie it down very close. Smelts (Pickled).—Draw out the in- sides all but the roes, put their tails into their mouths; boil them a few minutes in salt and water, vinegar, and peppercorns; take out the fish ; as soon as the pickle is cold, pour it over them. Smelts (Potted).—Draw out the inside, season them with salt, mace pounded, and pepper, lay them in a pan with butter on the top; bake them; when nearly cold, take them out, lav them upon a cloth; put them into pots, clear of! the butter from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over them. Smelts in Savory Jelly.—Lay a dozen well-cleaned smelts at the bottom of a stewpan, with half consomme and half Madeira, a little salt, a young onion, and two or three mushrooms ; let them stewSNI 477 SOL H gently till well done, then carefully take them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a plate to cool; pass the liquor through a i double silk sieve to some good consomme, ] which must be clarified the same as di- • rected for aspic jelly; the jelly being : made, have a large plain mould ready, in !ice, and nearly half fill it with jelly; as soon as it is set, place the smelts in it, with their heads downwards, and just i sufficient jelly to cover them ; when these i are set, fill up the mould ; when wanted, dip it in warm water, and turn it on the dish. This makes a good supper dish. SNIPES.—When the snipes have been picked, they must be singed over a char- coal fire ; in trussing them press the legs close to the side, and pierce the beak through them ; tie a slice of bacon over each bird, run a long skewer through the sides, and tie them to the spit; in the mean time cut two or three slices of bread, according to the number of the birds, fry them of a fine brown colour in butter; put the birds to roast, and put the fried bread in a dish under them, to receive the inside, which will drop after they have hung a few minutes ; just before they are roasted sufficiently, cut off the bacon, that they may take colour. Serve them on the dish with the bread under them, and plenty of good gravy. Some prefer eating them with butter only, considering that gravy takes off from the fine flavour of the bird. They should be carved the same as fowls or pigeons, and the head should be opened, as some are fond of the brains. Snipes are generally dressed in the same manner as woodcocks. Snipes a la Manselle.*—Take the fillets, wings, and legs, of as many snipes as will give you sufficient for a dish ; mince them small, and put the mincemeat into a saucepan, with half a glass of consomme, a spoonful of olive oil, the livers of the thirds, well pounded, salt, and pepper, i Set these on the fire ; a quarter of an hour t1 will be sufficient to do them ; when done, I put in a little verjuice, i Snipe Pie.—Take three snipes, bone them, and fill them with light forcemeat, adding the trails and truffles pounded, to ■ it; place the birds in a deep dish, with a i! little forcemeat all round; cover with puff paste; egg, and ornament it, then • place it in the oven. When three parts 1 baked, take off the lid, and pour in some ' good cullis, a glass and a half of Madeira, and season with Cayenne and lemon juicej J according to taste; put on the cover, and finish baking. Sniees a la Provengale.* — Having picked and trussed your snipes, put them into a stewpan, with a glass of oil, basil, bay leaf, pounded coriander seed, and two slices of lemon ; when they are pretty well flavoured, take them out, wrap each bird in a slice of bacon and a cabbage leaf, replace them in the stewpan, and finish cooking them over a gentle fire, add a glass of good stock, a little veal blond, sweetbreads, truffles, morels, or any other articles of the kind; when about to serve, squeeze in a little Seville orange juice. Snipes with Truffles.—Truss eight snipes with their beaks run through them, and roast them with bread under. Have a few fine truffles well stewed in a good brown sauce, and when the snipes are roasted, lay them on the toast in the dish, putting one or two truffles into each snipe, and pour the remainder of the sauce over them. SOLES. — Soles may be seen in the market almost all the year round, but they are in the greatest perfection about midsummer; when good, they are thick and firm, and the belly of a cream colour • when stale, they are flabby and of a bluish cast. Soles (Boiled). — Be careful that the soles are thoroughly well cleaned, then rub them over with lemon juice, and set them on the fire in cold spring water, with plenty of salt, and when they begin to boil, put them aside to simmer very gently till done; serve with anchovy- sauce in a boat. You may if you please, garnish your fish with parsley. Soles (Collnps of).*—Take some small soles, and marinate them in the juice of two lemons, with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs shred ; when they have remained sufficiently long in the above drain them; then stuff the fish with some crumb of bread boiled in milk, and beat up with the yolks of two eggs; sprinkle them with flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them on fried parsley or chervil, k our fish ought to bo of a clear gold colour, and very dry and crisp. Soles (Fricasseed).—Fry them of a nice brown, drain them ; take off all the meat from a small sole, chop it fine, and mix it with a little grated bread, some lemon peel, parsley chopped fine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, the yolk of an egg, and a little butter; make this into little balls; fry them. Put a little red wine to some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour;SOL 478 SOR boil it up; add Cayenne.,ketchup, and lemon, juice, lay in the fish and balls, simmer them a few minutes. Garnish with lemon. Souls (Fried).—Let them be thoroughly cleansed, after which dry them in a cloth, fl6uv, and dip them in egg, then cover them with fine bread crumbs, laying them on paper as you do them; put some good lard into a fryingpan, and. when very hot, slip in the soles, and fry them of a good brown colour; place them on paper to drain off the fat; sprinkle over them a little salt; serve them to table very hot, with shrimp sauce in a boat. You may, if you think proper, beat up the egg witli a little pepper and salt. Soles a la Horly.*—Skin, and take the fillets from two pairs of soles, trim, and lay them in a pan, and soak them in the juice of two lemons, with an onion sliced, parsley, salt, and pepper ; in an hour s time drain the fillets, dry them well, flour, and fry them of a nice colour ; drain them, lay on a dish, and serve with tomata sauce. Soles a la Mayonnaise.*■—Fry four or five pairs of soles ; when cold, lay them on a gridiron, over a slow fire, not to heat through, but to allow the skin to he raised easily ; while they are on the fire, detach the fillets, and then take off the skins, and cut your fillets into square pieces ; dip each of these into a mayonnaise, and lay them neatly in a mould, until it is full; then make the mayonnaise warm, pour it into the mould, cover, and set it on ice ; when the sauce is congealed, turn it on a dish, garnish with croutons, gherkins, anchovies, &c. Soles with Mushrooms.—Put a quait of milk into a stewpan, or fish-kettle, with the same quantity of water, a bit of butter, salt, and a little lemon juice ; then put in the soles, and set the stewpan over a mo- derate fire, and let them simmer very o-ently till done; then take them up, place them on a cloth or napkin, to im- bibe all the liquor from them; lay them on a dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. Soles en Paupiettes.*—Prepare your soles exactly like salmon en bard; but instead of baking them, boil the paupiettes in a court-bouillon. Serve them with an Italienvc. . Soles in Salad.*—See Salmon m Salad. Sole Pie.—Boil two pounds of eels until quite tender, then Pick t,le ‘ from the bones, and put the latter 11 to the liquor the eels were boiled in, witli a blade of mace, and some salt; let them boil till the liquor is reduced to a quarter of a pint, then strain it; cut the flesh of the eel very fine, and mix it with a little lemon peel, cut small, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few bread crumbs, parsley chopped fine, and an anchovy minced; mix the whole with a quarter of a pound of butter, and then lay this forcemeat in a pie-dish; cut the meat from a very fine pair of soles, and put into the dish upon the forcemeat, pour in the liquor the eels were boiled in, put on the cover, and set' it in the oven to bake of a nice brown. Soles a la Plat.*—Melt some butter, and pour it into a dish, with some shred parsley, and shalots, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; then laj- in a pair of soles (well cleaned and dried), spread sweet herbs, shred over them, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; add a Hass of white wine, and cover the whole- with bread crumbs, moistened by a few drops of butter; set this dish in a mode- rate oven to bake for a quarter of an hour. Soles (Stuffed).* — Make a farce of whiting or perch, minced very small, and rinsed with butter, sweet herbs, morels, kneaded together by yolks of eggs, seasoned witli pepper, salt, and nutmeg; having skinned and cleaned your soles, stuff them with the farce, rub them with butter, bread, and bake them. They may, if preferred, be dressed in equal quantities of stock and white wine. SORREL a la Baurgeoise.*— Pick and wash as much sorrel as you may want, drain and squeeze all the water from it, and put it into a saucepan, set it on the fire ; when the sorrel is dissolved, if there be too much water, put it into a cullender; then fry it lightly in a little butter. 1 ut two spoonsful of flour into a basin, boat an o°*a‘ up with it, then add another egg, and when that is well heaten with the flour, pour in a glass of milk, and then mix it with the sorrel, set it on the fire, and stir it, until it has boiled a quarter of an hour; dish it, mid serve with either poached or hard eggs. SmuiEL in Gravy* — Mince, and put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, parsley, and scallions; add a glass ot consomme ; set it over a moderate fire, and when quite soft, put to it some fowlgmvv, or real blond. Make the sauce thick, and do not let it boil, cover the sorrel when S0S0KaEL (Omelet of).-Pick. wash, and blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces,SOR SOD 479 fry it lightly in a little butter, with slired. parsley and scallions ; then put the sorrel into a saucepan, with a little cream; sea- son, and let it boil slowly; in the mean time make an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. Sorrel (Puree °f)*—Take as much sorrel as you may require for a dish ; take also three or four hearts of lettuces, and a handful of chervil, both picked and shred small, and then press them well to extract all the moisture ; put them into a saucepan, with some butter, champig- nons, shalots, and parsley, all chopped small (these last fried lightly in butter) ; put the sorrel on these, and dress it; when sufficiently done, add four ladiesful of veloute, and the yolks of five or six eggs; strain it through a bolting-cloth, and put it aside till wanted. T o make this puree maigre prepare the sorrel as above, but instead of the veloute, mix the yolks of six eggs with two des- sert-spoonsful of flour, and three glasses of milk, and then put it in ; reduce it over a brisk fire, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon; then strain it through a bolting-cloth, and keep it hot till wanted. Sorrel Sauce.—Pick and thoroughly wash two double handsful of young sorrel, well drain it from water, and then put it into a stewpan, well covered with a bit of butter, and let it stew very gently over a slow fire ; when done, put it to drain on a sieve for three minutes, then, with a wooden spoon, rub it through a tammy into a dish ; put it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, stirring it over the fire till thoroughly mixed; you may add, if you 1 choose, three spoonsful of good consomme, and when it has boiled for a few minutes, add to it half as much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if necessary season with sugar, pepper, and salt; this is pro- per for sifricaudeau ofweal or entrees of fish. Sorrel Soup.—Pick from the stalks, and well wash in several waters, two pecks of young sorrel, then squeeze it well to drain the water from it, and set it [to stew on a slow fire with nearly a quar- ter of a pound of butter, till done. Drain it for two minutes on a hair sieve, and put it again in a stewpan with a small bit of butter, on a slow fire ; when the butter is melted, add half a pint of con- somme ; when nearly reduced, add another, then seven or eight table-spoonsful of plain sauce. When all is well boiled to- gether, rub it through a tammy, adding a quart of consomme while you pass it. Let it boil very gently, two hours before the dinner, and. add six eggs, and half a pint of cream, mixed together, as directed for other soups ; put this in the minute before it is served up ; if it should not be strong enough to your palate, boil down some beef stock, and mix in with it. SOUFFLE Eranfais.*—Make acroustade eleven inches in diameter, and three and three quarters in height; put round it three sheets of buttered paper, and bake it; or make a paper case. Take twelve glasses of boiling milk, in which infuse whatever ingredient you may think proper, such as vanilla, coffee, orange flowers, &c. (the proportions will be found under the different articles). In the mean time, wash a pound of rice thoroughly in warm water, then put it into a saucepan of cold water, and when it has boiled a few minutes, strain the rice, and put it with your infusion into another saucepan, and set it again on the fire ; as soon as it boils, place the saucepan on hot ashes, that the rice may burst gradually; in three quarters of an hour, add a pound’ of powder sugar-, three quarters of a pound of fresh butter, and a pinch of salt, stir them well in; put fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, that the rice may be kept constantly simmering for an hour, by which time it ought to be perfectly soft, and should be nibbed through a boltino-- cloth quickly, like a puree ; put this into another saucepan over hot ashes, to keep it warm. Take sixteen eggs, separate the yolks and whites, beat the former well, and whisk the latter till nearly firm ; then’ mix the yolks with the rice (taking oft'the the ashes) ; the preparation ought to be of the same consistence as a cream pdtis- sicre; add, at first, a quarter, and after- wards the whole of the whites ; stir them in as lightly as for biscuit paste ; the whole being thoroughlyamalgmnated, pour it into the croustade, and place it m a mo- derate oven for one hour and a half; when done, cover a baking-tin with red cinders, on winch place the soujjld the moment it is taken out of the oven; this prevents its falling, whilst you mask it with powder sugar, and glaze with the salamander • carry it into the dining-room on the tin,’ have a dish ready with a napkin folded on it; place the souffle on the dish, and let it be served immediately. Remember that a souffle cannot bo served too quickly. Souffle—Of what you please. Put a pint of milk and cream to boil with lemon peel, cinnamon, and sugar; melt a480 sou SOU thick slice of butter in astewpan, add flour sufficient to make roux, strain the milk to it, and boil till very stiff, keeping it very smooth by stirring, add a small pinch of salt, and stir in while hot the yolks of eight eo’gs, one by one, flavour it with what you please, pounded orange flowers, essence of vanilla, or ratafia, according to taste ; whip up the whites to a firm froth, mix them in gently, pour it into a paper case made ready, or a souffle dish, bake it in a mode- rate oven forty minutes, when about to serve it powder fine sugar over and glaze with the salamander and serve instantly. Some think the way of making the mix- ture previous to the eggs going in, is best, as adopted in the recipe for souffle of gin- ger, and I prefer it, but you must be caie- ful to add the butter as there done. Souffle of Ginger—Put on a pint and a half of milk and cream to boil, with lemon peel, sugar, and cinnamon; when it has acquired flavour enough strain it, mix about three good spoonsful of flour of pota- toes, or wheat flour, in a little cold milk, pour this into the sweetened milk, and stir till it has boiled very thick and stiff, stir in while hot ten eggs, one by one, put in a good slice of butter, a glass of brandy, a little nutmeg, and about half a pound of preserved ginger, cut in pieces ; butter a mould, decorate it with some of the ginger, or preserved cherries, pour the preparation into the mould, steam it fast in a close- covered stewpan, with fire on the lid, for an hour, take it out a few minutes, turn it out, and serve wine sauce over it. SOUP (Brown) without Meat. — Put three quarts or more of water, with a suffi- cient quantity of raspings to thicken it; two or three onions cut across, some whole pepper, and a little salt; cover it close, and let it boil an hour and a half; take it off, and strain it through a sieve; fry in butter some celery, endive, lettuce, spinach, and any other herbs cut small; then take a stewpan (sufficiently large to hold all the ingredients) and put in a good piece of butter, stir in a little flour, and keep stir- ring till it is coloured of a nice brown ; then put in the herbs and soup; boil it till the herbs are tender, and the soup of a proper consistence, then pour the soup into a tureen, and send to table ; serve with fried bread, cither ill the soup or in a dish. Sour a la Grimod*—Truss a capon, and put it into a saucepan with a couple of pigeons, three pounds of steaks (all tied up to keep them in proper form); fill the saucepan with good stock, set it on the fire, and skim it well, and then put in car- rots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, and two cloves; stew the whole, and when done, serve as follows: 1 he capon and pigeons in a deep disli, garnished with whole lettuces (previously cooked) small onions, carrots, and turnips, cut into dice; these are also dressed previously ; take the carrots, &c. which were done with the capon, cover the capon with them ; strain the liquor through a tammy, and serve in a tureen by itself as sauce to the capon. Soup (Hessian).*—Take two pounds of shin of beef, one pint of split peas, two onions, four carrots, six potatoes, two heads of celery, some whole pepper, salt, and five quarts of water; stew all together till half the quantity is boiled away; then strain it through a hair sieve. Soup ]\Iaigre. ■—Melt half a pound of butter in a stewpan, shake it well ; as soon as it ceases to hiss, put in six middling- sized onions, sliced, shake the pan ''veil for five minutes, then put in five heads of celery cut small, a handful or two of spinach, a cabbage lettuce, and a bunch of parsley, all cut small; shake these all well - together in the pan for a quarter of an hour; stir in some flour, then pour in two quarts ■ of boiling water, some crusts of bread, some beaten pepper, four blades of mace pounded very fine ; stir the whole well together, and let it boil gently for half an hour ; take it off, and stir in the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar. Serve in a tureen. Soup de SaLay six or eight slices of lean ham, with some beef over them, at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, with some partridge legs, or moor game, or chicken, salt, peppercorns, damaica pep- per, three or four cloves, a bay leaf, and one clove of garlic, and a little water ; let the whole stew together till it takes a fine brown colour, then fill it up with half water, and have good beef stock ; add three heads of celery, two good turnips, parsley, lemon thyme, two carrots, three large onions, and a small bunch of winter sa- vory ; when the whole is thoroughly well done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a basin. Cut two good-sized turnips and three large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness of a quill, and an inch and a half long; fry these together ot a mce brown colour: next, shred two cabbage lettuces, celerv, endive, sorrel, and cbe vil, and stew them down on a veiv slow fire with a small bit of butter, done, put them into a sieve with the tu nips; then put them into asoup-potand pour the soup from the basin over them ,481 SPI SPI set it on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils, set it on one side, and let it simmer for two hours very gently ; take the crumb of a couple of French rolls, and cut it into round pieces, which brown in the oven, and put them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon them. If you think proper, it may be clarified, the same as other clear soups ; but the real Soup de Sante ought not to be clarified. Soup (White) without Meat.—Put two or three quarts of water into a saucepan, with the crumb of a small loaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, a few cloves, an onion or two cut across, and a little salt; cover close and boil till perfectly smooth; cut into small pieces some celery, endive, and lettuce, the white parts only; boil them, strain off the soup into a clean stew- pan ; put in the herbs, with a good piece of butter, keep stirring till it is melted ; then let it boil till quite smooth ; skim it, soak some French roll, nicely rasped, in a little of the soup ; put it in a tureen, pour the remainder of the soup over, and send to table. SPICED Bread (Common).*—Boil three pounds of honey in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour; then pour it on the flour in the trough; mix them together well, until the flour will imbibe no more liquid; when a little cooled, add three ounces of potash, infused the night before in half a pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting to it some pounded anise. Roll out the paste, and with paste-cutters of various forms, cut it into little figures, lay them on a well-oiled tin, and bake them ■ when done, wash’them over with milk. With this paste spiced nuts are made ; when formed, lay them on this, and leave in a warm place for two or three hours be- fore they are baked. Spiced Bread (Dutch or Flemish).* 'Die evening before you wisli to make your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of white potash in half a pint of milk, and set it aside. The next morning put a consider- able quantity of sifted flour into a trough, make a hole in the heap, into which pour six pounds of clarified honey ; whilst boil- ing, stir it well with a strong spatula, until the honey, reduced to a firm paste, will imbibe no more flour, then spread it all over the bottom of the trough, and leave it for about ten or fifteen minutes; at the end of that time, if the paste be sufficiently cool for you to bear your hand on it, rub its surface with the” infusion of potash- then let a strong person knead it, in the same manner as the baker’s knead bread. Have ready a number of different-sized moulds of pear-tree wood, on which are cut (pretty deep) octagons of various dimen- sions ; then cut your paste into as many pieces as you have moulds, in the follow- ing proportions : For the mould containing a pound, take eighteen ounces of paste, for a half-pound, fourteen ounces ; a quarter of a pound seven ounces of paste, and so on ; knead each piece separately on the slab, rub them with flour to prevent their adhering, and then put them into the re- spective moulds ; press them down tight; in a minute or two turn them over, place them on a tin plate (previously rubbed with olive oil), and with a soft brush take off what flour may remain on the surface of the spiced bread, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Whilst they are baking, dis- solve some isinglass in a sufficient quantity of beer, with which, by means of a hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced bread as soon as it is done ; and then, while it is moist and warm, decorate it with blanched almonds, candied lemon and orange peel, cut into dice. You may, if you think proper, cut these sorts of sweet- meats into very small pieces, and knead them into your paste at first. When they are nearly cold, separate the pieces with a knife. Spiced Bread (Dutch), rich.* —Make your paste in the same manner as above and when kneaded with the potash, add a quarter of a pound of anise, two ounces of coriander, two ounces of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves (all reduced to an impal pable powder), a pound of candied lemon peel, the same of candied orange peel both cut into thin slices ; mix these ingredients thoroughly with the paste, and then cut it into pieces, each weighing twenty-ei«ht ounces : these, when baked, will not ex- ceed a pound in weight; spread them on your slab, and form them into squares two or three inches in thickness ; place them ul h7 S“!e’ °n ,.a ^king-tin. previously rubbed with oil of almonds, and put round the tin some slips of wood to prevent the spiced bread from getting thinner at the edges ; dip a brush in some milk, and rub the surface of the spiced bread with it • put. them into a moderate oven until well risen and of a brownish colour. Whilst they are baking, blanch a few almonds and split them, cut some candied lemon and orange peel into very thin slices, and as soon as the spiced bread is taken from the oven wash it over with a decoction of isin- 2 i482 SPI SPI glass and beer, and immediately decorate it with the almonds, &c. Another way. —jTake a pound of li- quorice, boil it in six cjuarts ot milk, until the fluid is reduced to half; then strain it into a saucepan, add six pounds of honey, and boil for a quarter of an hour ; after which pour it into a trough upon the flour, with which mix it up by means of a strong spatula; when the liquid has taken up as much flour as it will possibly contain, ex- tend it along the bottom of the trough , as soon as it is a little cooled, put to it half a pint of milk, in which was infused, the night before, three ounces of the best potash; knead it well, and then add cinna- mon, coriander, and anise (two ounces of each), an ounce and a halfoi cloves, all re- duced to powder, a pound ot candied lemon, and the same of candied orange peel, chop- ped small. Finish as above directed, ex- cept that milk should be washed over them, instead of isinglass, when baked. Spiced Bread (Rotterdam) Make your paste as directed with the liquorice, milk, and honey, without any spices, roll it out very thin (about the eighth of an inch), cut this into pieces the size of a playing- card, place them on a baking-tm well rubbed with olive oil, and bake them m a moderate oven; when done, wash them over with sugar, boiled with orange-flower water to a syrup. Let them dry, and tie them in packets, four in each. SPINACH (Boiled).— Spinach is some- times extremely gritty ; it must therefore be picked and thoroughly washed in several waters; then put it into a large saucepan of boiling water with plenty' ol salt in it, let it boil till done, take it out, put it into a cullender, squeeze it to drain it from the water, then cut it into squares, lay it oil a dish, and serve it to table. Spinach <i la Bonne Femme.*—Having thoroughly washed and picked your spi- nach, scald it well; do it quickly that it may keep its colour; then add three onions stuck with cloves, some sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. When the spinach is quite done, drain it ; mince and put it into ano- ther saucepan in a little melted butter, and half a glass of cream, or good milk , stu all together well, and serve very 10 . Spinach in 71o.rcs.-Cut bits of bread tolerably thick, and give them the f " little boxes of any shape; f°°Vw! inside without breaking through, lease a border of a proper thickness, and i > >em of a good brown colour, in butt®r’ . ’ lard - drain them the same as Mj’itur , and fill them with a well-seasoned spinach ray out; serve with or without a cover. Spinach Fritters. — Boil some spinach thoroughly, drain, mince, and add to it some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon, all pounded ; as much cream,or yolks and whites of eggs, as will make it the consistence of batter; mix in a few currants, previously scalded, and drop the batter into a fryingpan, on boiling lard; as soon as they rise, take them out, drain, and serve them. Spinach au Maigre.*—Having blanched and minced your spinach, put it into a pan, with nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, salt, and pepper; set it on the fire, and when the spinach is fried a little, add two dessert-spoonsful of flour, and some milk, stir till it thickens, and then serve. Spinach Pudding.—Pick and well wash a Quarter of a peck of spinach, and boil it until quite tender ; a little salt should lie put into the water it is boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept closely covered ; when boiled, put it in a sieve to drain, and then cut it small; beat up six eggs, and mix them -with half a pint of cream, or milk, a stale roll grated very fine, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; stir all well together, put them into the saucepan the spinach was stewed in, and keep stirring it till it begins to thicken; then wet a pudding-cloth, flour it well, put in the mixture, tie it up, and boil for an hour ; turn it out on a dish, pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orange juice and sugar mixed in it, and serve. Spinach Puffs.—Take as much boiled spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze it quite dry, shred it small, and add half the quantity of powder sugar, the same of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and two ounces of citron, the two latter minced; season with beaten cinnamon and grated nutmeg; put them all into a steu pan to simmer a little while, and then set them by to cool. Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, and some flour, a pinch of salt, and the same of sugar; roll it out very thin, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, and upon each piece lav a spoonful of the spi- nach, as above, turn the paste over and pinch the edges round neatly, in the tom of a semicircle. These puffs may e either boiled a quarter of an hour, ana served with grated bread and Ibirmesaa cheese strewed over them, or fne m 01STO 483 ing lard, and sent to table with powder STR sugar over. Spinach Tart* — lake some spinach, clean it thoroughly, as it is apt to be gritty, pick and scald it, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with salt and nutmeg, blix the spinach with frangipane, and finish the tart like that of Jr aiigipane. Spinach Tart.—Scald the spinach in boiling water, drain it well, and then chop it; stew it in butter and cream, with a little salt, sugar, a few small bits of dried comfit citron, and a few drops of oran»e- flower water ; put it into a dish lined with the very best puff paste. Spinach Toasts.—Boil some spinach for a quarter of an hour; then squeeze out all the water, chop it small, and put it into a mortar, with three or four spoonsful of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard- boiled, and three raw eggs, two biscuits soaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; pound all these together to a paste, put it into a dish, and mix with it a few dry currants, and three or four spoonsful of melted butter. Cut some slices of bread ball an inch thick, four inches long, and two broad ; toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, &c. over them, to the tbick- ness of half an inch, wash each over with white of egg; place the toasts on a baking- tin (well buttered) and bake them for half an hour. When done, grate nutmeg, and over them, and serve. ol KA16. Sprats are chosen bv the same rules as herrings, and are dressed in sfoArr16* (See Heiuungs0 blOCK/or Brown or White Fish Soups. Taxe a pound of scale, five flounders, and tn o pounds of eels; cut them in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as much water sLck wiHer,them’ a 1!ttle mace’ an 01110,1 stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and salt Stock for Gravy Soup or Gravy— Cut a knuckle of veal into slices, slide also a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of gammon of bacon; put these into a stew- pan, with three scraped carrots, a couple of onions, a couple 0f turnips, two headsof celery, and two quarts of water Lot tha meat stew til] quite tender, but it must not be brown When thus prepared it W1 5 vy • n brown gravy. it mud k first coloured in the usual manner. ^ Stock-fish a la Gascogne.*—Put the dried cod (alter it has been prepared, and pulled into flakes) into a stewpan, with equal quantities of sweet oil and fresh butter, pepper, garlic, and salt; place the stew- pan on a stove, stirring constantly, until the butter and oil are thoroughly incor- porated ; as soon as that is the case, it should be eaten, because if it becomes cool, it turns immediately. Stock-fish a la Provenfale.*—Prepare a dried cod, boil, bone, and cut it in pieces. Melt some butter, rolled in flour, iii a stew- pan, and put to it parsley, scallions, garlic, a glass of cream, the same of oil, amf some Seville orange peel; as soon as this is well flavoured, putin your fish, and toss it up for some time; the longer this operation is performed, the better the dish will be SI RAWJ3ERRY (Compote of).—This is made in the same manneras raspberries, only that the strawberries do not require being mixed with any other fruit. Strawberrv Conserve* — Take some very fresh strawberries, pick, and crush them through a tammy. For every des- sert-spoonful of juice, allow six ounces of sugar ; boil this to fort perle, take it off the fire, and pour in the juice ; stir them 0ether with a silver spoon, until the con- serve begins to whiten and dry, then put it into moulds or paper cases. If the con serve be too white, add a little carmine to tile syrup. Strawberry Cream.—Put six ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, pulp it through a sieve; add to it the juice of !i lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a dish juice of lemon and when no more froth will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into drained! plaC° tbe froth uPon well STRAWBERRy Ice Cream. - Take a pint of strawberries, pick them from the stalks, them ^rougli a sieve, with a der 1 n SP00n > a<^ four ounces of pow- freezde.SU8:ar’ S Pint of creara> »nd wMTflAWBEnnY differs.— Make a paste i flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, chon- I»h lemon peel, whites of egg beaten un uud a sufficient quantity of white winei’ e it pretty soft, and just ready to drop ln .“S r; ; m,X som.e "rgT strawberries the1Vizenofda°nut^gI°in^tjj^jJ*'!r^.’ .ah°ut them Q0n°’ t!'ke ^em ou^carefMly^draia sugar. °n n S'UVe’ and &laze them with 2 r 2STU 484 STR Strawberry Jam.*—Gather the scar- let strawberries when perfectly ripe, bruise them well, and add the juice of other strawberries ; take an equal weight of lump sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thoroughly into the fruit, and set it on a slow fire at first, boil it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises; pour it into glasses, or jars, and when cold, tie them down. ^ , Strawberry Marchpane*—Take tw0 pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to a fine paste, and mix them with the sugar (boiled to petit boule); crush, and strain the juice of the fruit, which add to the almond paste and syrup ; stir the mixture well, set it on hot ashes, and continue stirring until the paste is sufficiently done; this may be proved by laying a piece on the back of your hand; if it may be re- moved without its sticking, it is enough ; when cold, spread it over a slab, and cut it of any size and shape you think proper. Strawberries (Preserved) in Wine — Put some very fine large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three spoonsful of fine sugar; fill up with Ma- deira, or good sherry. . Strawberry Sherbet.*—Take fourteen ounces of picked strawberries, crush them in a mortar, and then add to them a quart of water ; pour this into a basin with a tea-spoonful of lemon acid, and the same of orange-flower water, and leave the mix- ture two or three hours; put eighteen ounces of fine sugar into another basin, cover it with a large cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice; squeeze the cloth to extract as much as possible from it When the sugar is entirely dissolved, rtm the whole through a jelly-bag, until perfectly clear; then finish as usual. Strawberries (Soujjie Parmen of).9— Take a basket of very fine strawberries, nick and crush them, and then rub them through a sieve. Whisk the whites of eighteen eggs to a firm froth, to which add a pound and a half of powder sugar, stir them together as lightly as possible; then mix them with the strawberries. Pour the whole into a croustade, and bake it an hour in a moderate oven ; when done, irlaze it, and serve g Strawberry Tart.-Pick, and put into a basin two quarts of the best scarlet strawberries, then add to them half a pint of cold, thick, clarified sugar, and half a pint of Madeira, with the juice of two or three lemons; mix these well to- gether, without breaking the strawberries, and put them into a puff paste, previously baked; be careful to keep them very cool. STURGEON.—Of a good sturgeon the flesh should be white, the gristles and veins blue, the grain even, with a few blue veins, and the skin tender. Sturgeon (Baked)*.—Clean, and take the skin from a small sturgeon ; split it along the belly, without separating it. Lay^it in a large baking-dish, season it with salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs; moisten with oil, lemon juice, and a bot- tle of white wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequently ; make it a nice colour, and serve it with its own gravy. Sturgeon (Pute oj).—Lard the stur- geon with fat bacon cut in lengths and well rolled in pounded spices and fine herbs chopped, put pieces of butter about it, and finish as all other pies. Sturgeon au Court-bouillon.* Lake a small sturgeon, clean the inside tho- roughly, take out the gills, and remove the'skin, wash it well, and drain it. Put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich court-bouil- lon, grated bacon, or butter. It requires more seasoning than any other fish ; put therefore plenty of sweet herbs, and salt; set it on the fire, and put fire on the lid; moisten it often ; when done, drain and serve it with an Italiemte, to which add the liquor, with a bit of butter. Sturgeon Cutlets en Papillotes. Having cleaned and skinned the fish, cut it into cutlets, about an inch thick; put a bit of butter into a pan, lay in the cutlets, set them on the fire, and turn them. Set them to cool in fine herbs, or durcelles, and finish like Veul Cutlets en Fapillotes. If vour dish is maigre, put pounded ancho- vies ; if gras, use bacon. Sturgeon (Fricandeau of)*—lake a good-sized piece of sturgeon, and having removed the skin and gristle, beat it lightly with the blade of the chopper, and lard it with bacon. Line a stewpan with thin slices of ham, veal, some carrots, onions, and sweet herbs. Moisten "i white wine, cover it with a buttered paper and stew it. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, take off the fat, add three spoonsful ot espaonole, reduce you sauce, pour it into a dish, and serve sturgeon on it. ,_BoiI a slice StuuciFON (Gnllade of )• -fv of sturgeon in a small saucepan, some slices of bacon, bay leaves, salt,485 SUE STU pepper, basil, and white wine. When done, let it cool, cover it with bread- crumbs, broil the slice, and serve with sauce piquante. Sturgeon (Matelote of).*— Cut a large slice of sturgeon into pieces of various sizes; put them into a fryingpan with a little butter, do them on both sides over a gentle fire, then take them out; and put into the pan a glass of red wine, a pinch ot flour, and some sweet herbs shred small; in a quarter of an hour replace the fish for a minute, and serve all together on fried bread. Sturgeon (Roasted').* — Take a large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small one, clean and skin it properly ; lard it with eel and anchovies, and marinate it in a white wine marinade. Fasten it to the spit, and roast it, basting frequently with the marinade strained. Let the fish be a nice colour, and serve with a pepper sauce. Sturgeon in Savory Jelly.—Put a little aspic or savory jelly into the bottom of a mould, and as soon as it is set, cut some cold sturgeon in whatever form you please, and place it on the jelly according to your own taste, and put in a little jelly, just sufficient to cover the sturgeon ; when it is thoroughly set, put in some more jelly, so as to fill about an inch of the mould ; when that is set, place some more sturgeon, and so proceed till the mould is full ; when it is to be turned out to serve, dip it in warm water the same as all other jellies. Sturgeon Soup.—Take a fine piece of sturgeon, cut off the fins, and the gristly bone inside, with the skin ; put it all to stew, with a bunch of sweet herbs, car- rots, onions, peppercorns, allspice, and a little salt, and let it stew till of a nice brown colour, then fill it up with veal consomme, half a bottle of Madeira, and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar. When well boiled and skimmed, put in a large piece of sturgeon to stew very gently, with a fire over and under the stewpan’ till it is thoroughly well done; then take it out to cool, and strain the liquor through a lawn sieve, thicken it, addino- ham, as directed for turtle soup; boil it in the same manner. When ready, cut the sturgeon into small squares, and put them into the soup with a few stewed Oysters and mushrooms ; let it hoil gently for a few minutes, skim it, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons, and add a very small quantity of Cayenne, and serve; if '] not efficiently strong, reduce a little beef stock and add to it. Herbs may be added if thought proper. Sturgeon d la Venitienne.*—Take a large slice of sturgeon, and having re- moved the skin and gristles, lard it alter- nately with seasoned lardons, truffles, and anchovies ; place it in a braising-pan with bay leaves, two cloves of garlic, and a large glass of oil. Set the pan over a gentle fire, to simmer for two or three hours ; then serve with any maigre sauce you may think proper. SUET Dumplings.—This batter should be made the same as for suet pudding, (second recipe), but much thicker, let your cloth be wetted, shake it all over with flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, as much as it will hold, two or three spoonsful of butter. Or you may make the batter as usual, and put it in tea-cups, well buttered; tie them in cloths, and boil an hour. Suet to keep for a Twelvemonth.— Choose the firmest part, and pick it free from skin and veins. Put it into a sauce- pan, and set it at some distance from the fire, in order that the suet may melt with- out frying, or it will taste disagreeable. When it is melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When it has caked quite hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a dry, but not in a hot place. When you wish to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a nice crust, either with or without butter. Suet Pudding.—Mix a pound and a quarter of flower, to a pound of shred suet, with two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Let it boil for four hours. It eats very nice the next day, cut in slices and broiled. Suet Pudding.—Put six spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, with a little grated nutmeg and ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt, then put in a pound and a half of beef suet chopped fine ; stir these well together, and then mix in a quart of milk, and six eggs, well beaten together ; hutter a basin, and shake some flour round it, put in your batter, and boil it for two hours and a half, or three hours. Suet Pudding.—Take half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, half a pound of flour, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded and sifted sugar; mix all these together witli a little milk, to a moderate consistence. It may either be boiled or baked.SUG Suet Pudding.—Chop half a pound of beef suet very fine, add to it the same quantity of flour, two eggs beaten, a little salt, a small quantity of pounded and sifted ginger ; mix all these well together with milk to a moderate consistence. It may he either baked or boiled. SUGAR (to clarify).* — Take four pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces ; put into a preserving-pan the white of an egg, and a glass of pure spring water; mix them well with a whisk, add another glass, still whipping, until two quarts of water have been put in ; when the pan is full of froth, throw in the sugar, and set it on the fire, being careful to skim it every time the scum rises, which will be the case as the sugar boils up. After a few boilings, the sugar will rise so high as to run over the edges of the pan, to prevent which, throw- on it a little cold water; this will lower it instantly, and give time for the skimming, for the scum should never be taken off whilst the sugar is bubbling; the cold water stills it, and that is the moment to skim it. Repeat this operation carefully three or four times, when a whitish light scum only will rise ; then take the pan off, lay a napkin, slightly wetted, over a basin, and pour the sugar through it. The scum thus taken oft, put into a china basin ; and when the sugar is clari- fied, wash the pan and the skimmer with a glass of water, which put to the scum, and set it aside for more common purposes. Sugar (Different Degrees of Preparing). —The various purposes to which sugar is applied, require it to be in different states; these are called degi*ees, and are thirteen in number, called as follows : Petit Lissd, First Degree. — Replace the clarified sugar in the preserving-pan, to boil gently, take a drop ot it on the thumb, touch it with the forefinger ; if, on open- ing them, it draws to a fine thread, and in breaking, forms two drops on each finger, it is at the right point. Lissc, Second Degree. — A little more boiling brings it to this point; when the thread w-ill draw further before it breaks. Petit Pole, Third Degree. — At this point the thread maybe drawn as far as the span will open, without breaking. Grand Pole, Fourth Degree. — On still increasing tbe boiling, little raised balls are formed on the surface of the sugnr. Petite Queue de Cochon, l'ifth Degree. Take up some ot the sugar on a skimmer, and drop it on the rest, when it should form a slanting streak on the surlace. 486 SUG Boil it a little longer, and it will reach the Grande Queue de Cochon, or Sixth Degree. —The streak or tail is now larger. Souffle, Seventh Degree. — lake out a skimmerful of the sugar, blow through it( and small sparks of sugar will fly from it. Petite■ Plume, Eighth Degree.—The same proof as above; the sparks should be larger and stronger. Grande Plume, Ninth Degree.—Take the sugar in the skimmer, as before, give it a shake, and if the sparks are large, and ad- here together on rising, it is at the right point. Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree.—Dip your fingers in cold water, and then into the sugar instantly, and again into the water, when the sugar will roll into a ball, which will be supple when cold. Gros Boulet, Eleventh Degree.—At this point, the ball or bullet will be harder when cold than at the last. Casse, Twelfth Degree.—Prove as above; the bullet should crumble between the fin- gers, and on biting, will stick to the teeth ; at the next point, Caramel, Thirteenth Degree.—it should snap clean. This point is very difficult to attain, for in increasing the height, the sugar is apt to burn ; it is better therefore to try the proof very frequently. Another caramel is frequently used by the confectioner, and is of a deep colour; it is made by putting a little water to the sugar, and boiling it without skimming, or otherwise touching the sugar, till ot the right colour, then take it oft and use im- mediately. If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to miss the right point, add a little cold water, and boil once more. Observations.—The skimmer should never be left in the preserving-pan after the sugar is clarified, nor after the scum is removed. , Be very careful not to stir or disturo the sugar, as that would cause its dimi- nution. . , In boiling the sugar (particularly the two last degrees), the sugar is continually rising and falling; and on falling, leaves marks on the sides of the pan, which tbe heat of the fire would soon burn, and there- by spoil the whole of the sugar ; to avoid this, have by the side of you a pan of cold water, and a sponge, with which w.pe the sides of the pan carefully, the instant after the sugar lias fallen. . r Sugar a la Adige.*—Blanch a quarter ofSWE 487 SYL a pound of bitter almonds, pound them to a very fine paste in a marble mortar, with the whites of four eggs; when perfectly smooth, add a pound of the best lump sugar (in powder), and five or sis more whites of eggs; stir all together well, until of such consistence that it may be kneaded without adhering to the hands. Divide this preparation into two parts, one of which, tiDge of a red colour, either with bolus armena, or cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of roses or bergamot; leave the other portion of paste white, but flavour it as follows : Grate the rind of two fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, scrape off the surface, and when pounded in a small mortar, work it into the uncoloured portion of sugar paste, then roll it out to about half an inch in thickness (having previously sprinkled the slab with powder sugar), cut it with a tin paste-cut- ter about two inches diameter; arrange them on white paper, which place on a baking-tin, and put them into a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour ; proceed in the same manner with the coloured paste. AVhen cold, detach them from the paper. Sugar Paste.—Take a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, a little salt, one egg; mix all together with a little water. This paste may be used for any second-course dish. Sugar Vinegar.—To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar ; boil, and skim it thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, but not cold, put into it a toast spread with yeast; stir it for nine days, at the end of which time barrel it, and place it in such a situation that the sun may lie on it; put a slate on the bunghole. The best time to make it is in March; it will be fit for use in six months. When sufficiently sour it should be bottled, or it may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. SWEETBREADS.— (See under the articles, Veal, Beef, &c.) Sweetbread Pie.—Lay a puff paste, half an inch thick, at the bottom of a deep dish, and put a forcemeat round the sides ; cut three or four sweetbreads in pieces, according to the size of the pie, lay them in first, then some artichoke bottoms, each cut into four parts; then some cocks’ combs, a few truffles, morels, asparagus tops, and mushrooms, yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and forcemeat balls ; season with pepper and salt; nearly fill the pie with water, put on the lid, and let it bake for two hours. Thicken some veal gravy with a little cream and flour, and pour into the pie when baked. SWEETMEATS ( Brown ). * — These sweetmeats may be made with the cuttings and remains of any kind of sugars or can- died articles, and even of spiced bread; pound whatever ingredients you intend to use extremely fine, and pass the powder through a tammy on to the table ; in the centre of this heap make a hollow, into w'hich put as many eggs as may be neces- sary to form a paste, then cinnamon, cloves, and bolus armena, all reduced to an impal- pable powder; use only a sufficient quan- tity of the latter to give the paste a clear cinnamon colour; sugar may be added, if required. Work all the above ingredients together into a firm paste with a little flour, then roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out of it, with tin paste cutters, figures of any kind you may think proper; place them on white paper, and bake them for half an hour. When done, decorate them according to your taste. Sweetmeat Pudding. — Slice thin, of orange, lemon peel, and citron, an ounce each; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lined with a light puff paste ; mix with half a pound of butter melted, the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of two, and five ounces of sugar; pour this over the sweet- meats, and set it in the oven ; it will take rather more than half an hour baking. SILLABUBS.*—Take the juiceofa large lemon, the peel (pared very thin), a glass of brandy, two of white wine, and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; put these ingredients into a pan, and leave them ; the next day, add a pint of thick cream, and the whites of two eggs ; whip the whole well, and pour the syllabub into glasses. They are the better for keeping a day or two. If the syllabubs are^ not wanted quite so good as the above, raisin or mountain wine will do as well as brandy. Syllabub (Somersetshire).—Put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or any other white wine, into a large bowl, sweeten it according to taste ; milk the bowl full; in about twenty minutes’ time, cover it toler- ably high with clouted cream ; grate nut- meg over it; add pounded cinnamon, and nonpareils. S y i,i.a bub (Staffordshire).—Put a pint ofTAN TAR 488 cyder, a glass of brandy, sugar, and nut- meg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large teapot some height into it: T. TABLETTES de Putience.*■—Take eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm snow; in the mean time have the yolks beaten up with six ounces of powder su- gar (both these operations should be per- formed for at least half an hour); then mix the two together, add six ounces of sifted flour, and when well incorporated, pour in half a pint of rose or orange- flower water; stir the whole together for some time. Have ready some tin plates, well rubbed with butter: take a funnel that has three or four tubes, fill it with the paste, and push out your tablettes; when the tin plates are full, put them into a pretty warm oven. When done, take them from the tins whilst hot. TANSEY Fritters.—Pour a pint of boiling milk on the crumb of a small loaf grated ; let it stand for an hour to cool, then add as much tansey juice as will flavour it, and colour it with a little spi- nach juice; add a spoonful of ratafia, or brandy, grate the rind of half a lemon, sugar according to taste, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and mix all together, put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it over a slow fire till quite thick; then take it off, and let it stand nearly three hours, then drop a spoonful at a time into boiling lard; when done, grate sugar over them, and serve. Garnish the dish with slices of orange, and serve wine sauce in a boat. Tansey Fritters.—Pound some tansey with a few almonds, a carp roe, and the crumb of a small loaf; mix with the paste some powder sugar, and a little rose wa- ter; fry them in butter; drain, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them very hot. Tansey Pudding.—Blanch and pound very fine a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, then put them into a stewpan; add a quarter of a pint of syrup of roses, the crumb of a French roll, a little grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy, two table- spoonsful of tansey juice, three ounces of fresh butter, and some slices of citron; pour over this a pint of boiling cream or milk, sweeten according to taste, and when cold, mix all well together; add tho juice of a lemon, and eight eggs beaten. It may be either baked or boiled. Tansey Pudding.—Beat up the yolks of twelve, and the whites of four eggs; put to them a quart of cream; colour this with spinach juice, and flavour with tansey juice, add a little salt, some nutmeg, and a good pinch of flour; put this into a a dish lined with a light puff paste, and bake it in a brisk oven, it will take half an hour baking. Serve to table garnished with Seville orange, cut in slices, and can- died peel. TAPIOCA Pudding*—Put four table- spoonsful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and let it remain all night, then put a spoonful of brandy, some lemon peel, and a little spice ; let them boil gently, add four eggs, and the whites well beaten, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Bake it. TARRAGON Cream.—Boil some tar- ragon in half a pint of cream and a pint of milk, as long as is necessary to flavour it; then strain the cream, and, if to be served hot, add the yolks of five eggs, and some flour; when well mixed, pour the prepara- tion into a dish, place it in the bain-marie to set. If it is to be served cold, when the cream is strained, and no more than lukewarm, put in a little rennet; strain it into your table-dish, lay a tin over it, on which put hot embers, place the dish also on embers, and let it remain till set. Tarragon Sauce. — Put two table- spoonsful of tarragon vinegar into a sauce- pan, and reduce it to half the quantity, then put it to six spoonsful of good butter sauce, a little tarragon, and chervil chop- ped, and mix all well together, and if not sufficiently strong, put in a little bit of glaze, and a very little more tarragon vinegar. Tarragon Sauce.*—Put into a sauce- pau two or three sliced onions, two carrots also sliced, and a bit of veal cut into dice; set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick, and brown, add some good stock, simmer for about an hour; then put in a little shred tarragon leaves, two or three slices of Seville orange, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; in a quarter of an hour’s time strain it. Tarragon Saitce.*—Cut some tarragon leaves into squares, or lozenges, and scald them; put some consomme or veloute; set it on the corner of the stove, take off all fat, make the sauce boil, throw in the leaves, add a small quantity of vinegar, and some butter, and serve. Tarragon Vinegar*—Take some tarra- gon, dry it in the sun, and then put it intoTEA 489 TEA a jar, which fill with vinegar; let it infuse for a fortnight, then draw it off, express all the liquid from the dregs, and filter the whole; bottle it; cork them well, and keep them in a cool place. TARTE Royale (Berlin).*—Take half a pound of sweet almonds, and having blanched, pound them with six eggs, in a marble mortar to a very fine paste, add to it a pound of broken sugar, a pound of fresh butter, and the grated rind of two lemons, beat it well as each ingredient is put in; lay about sixteen or eighteen ounces of sifted Hour on the slab, place the almond paste on it, and knead them well together. Divide this into several pieces, which roll to the eighth of an inch in thickness ; from these cut from twelve to sixteen circular layers, the largest about seven inches in diameter, the rest, each somewhat smaller than the other; when all are cut, place them on white paper on tins, and bake them in a mode- rate oven to a clear brown, then take them out, and let them cool. As soon as cold, place the largest piece on a china dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay flat, and spread over it equally some preserved fruit; cover this with the second-sized layer, on which also spread preserved fruit; then a third layer, and so on until all the paste is used, taking care to put each layer in its proper order, so that the whole may form a cone, and between every one must be a different kind of pre- serve ; when done, glaze and ornament it as follows : Cut some candied lemon and orange peel into the form of leaves, which arrange in garlands round the tart, putting here and there a small preserved fruit; when done, replace it in the oven for two or three minutes to dry, and then serve. TARTLETS.-—-Butter some small tart- let-pans ; line them with a nice thin puff paste, mark it neatly round the edges, bake them; when they are cold, fill them with custard, preserve, or any sweetmeat you think proper, and if you choose, pour custard over. Tartlets.—Coyer with a thin short paste two or three dozen small tartlet- pans, then put into them any preserve or sweetmeat you think proper ; then shred some paste very fine, and neatly cross them over; there are moulds for this pur- pose, which do them much neater and more quickly; when they are all done, egg them, lay them on a baking-tin, and bake them in a quick oven. TEA Cream.—Infuse an ounce of the best green tea in half a pint of boiling milk, simmer it five minutes, then strain it tlirough a tammy, pressing the leaves well. Boil a pint of rich cream, add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar; pour this whilst hot to the milk, stir them together well; put in as much clarified isinglass as will set it, and pour the cream into the mould or glasses ; place them on ice; when perfectly cold, turn it out of the mould, or serve in the glasses. Tea Cream*—Boil two drachms (or more) of good green tea in a quart of milk; in a few minutes strain it; add three yolks of eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar ; set it on the fire, and reduce it to half, then strain it again ; when cold, serve it. Tea Ice*—Take two drachms of the best tea, tie it in a bit of muslin, and boil it in two quarts of cream ; when the infu- sion is sufficiently strong, take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix the cream with the eggs and sugar as directed. (See Ice Creams.') TEAL d la Bateliere.*—Take the legs, fillets, and rumps of some teal, cut the fil- lets lengthwise in three pieces, put them all into a stewpan with abitof butter, some chopped shalots, and parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; set it on a fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes, then add a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a glass of white wine ; stir till it boils; if the sauce be too thin, add half a glass more wine. Stir in the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel, and two or three ladiesful of stock, just before serving. Teal (Roasted).—They should be taken up with the gravy in ; whilst doing, baste them well with butter; and then before being taken up, with a little salt; pour a good gravy under them, and serve shalot sauce in a lioat. Teal (Roasted).*—Shred a little lemon peel, and mix it with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, and lemon juice ; stuff your birds with this, cover them first with slices of lemon, then bacon, and lastly, buttered paper sprinkled with salt; tie them up securely, fasten them to the spit, and roast them. When done, let the butter run out, remove the wrappers, and dish them. Serve them witli a sauce made as follows : Put into a saucepan three ladiesful of espagnole, a spoonful of consomme, a bit of glaze, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a little pepper ; give them a boil up toge- ther, and strain it over the teal.TEN 490 TEN TENCH.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish ; when good, the eyes are bright, the body stiff', and the outside free from, slime ; tench should be dressed as soon as caught. Tench broiled with Herbs *—Take three or four tench as fresh as possible, plunge them into boiling water, scrape off the scales carefully, beginning with the head ; cleanse them thoroughly, and put them into a marinade of oil, with shred parsley, scal- lions, and shalots, thyme, bay leaf, salt, and pepper. Wrap them in a double paper, enclosing the marinade, and broil them. Take off the paper before sending to table. Serve them on a piquante, anchovy, or caper sauce. Tench (Fricassee of').*—Cleanse the tench, scald, and take off the head, tail, and fins; cut the fish into three or four pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with some white wine, bay leaf, pepper, and salt. Dissolve some butter with a clove of garlic in it; toss up a few morels in it, then add a glass of white wine, and the same of fish gravy, small onions, and carp roes; pour this over the fish, let the whole simmer a short time, and then serve. Tench (Fried).*—Take a couple of large tench, scale and cleanse them as for broil- ing. Cut off the fins, split them down the back, take out the bones; sprinkle them with flour and salt; squeeze a little lemon juice over, and fry them in butter, and serve them dry. Tench (Matelote of).*—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; add to it a dozen small onions, a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two or three cloves, thyme, bay leaves, a little flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of white wine; when these have simmered a quar- ter of an hour, put in the tench cut in pieces ; as soon as the fish is done, add capers and a chopped anchovy; make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, and serve with fried bread. Tench an Monarque.—Open the fish down the back, take out the hone, and some of the meat; mince the latter with some shalots, mushrooms, and parsley; mix these with a little panada, an ounce of butter, the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper; stuff the tench with this, try them lightly, and serve with a ragaut made as follows: Cut two or three arti- choke bottoms into quarters, and put them into a little melted butter, with mushrooms, shalots, sweet herbs, and a couple ot cloves; when these have stewed a short time, add a glass of wine, the same of stock, tench or carp roes, crayfish tails, pepper, and salt; make the ragout thick, and squeeze in a little lemon juice. Tench Pie..—Put a layer of butter at the bottom of a dish, and grate in some nutmeg, add pepper, salt, and mace; then lay in the tench, cover them with butter, and pour in some red wine and a little water; put on the lid; when baked, pour in melted butter, mixed with good rich gravy. Tench au Pontife.—Take a couple of fine tench, scald, and split them down the back; take out the hones and meat care- fully, so that the skin he not broken ; mince the latter, and mix it with grated bread soaked in wine, scraped bacon, calf’s udder, parsley, shalots, and mush- rooms (all shred), pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs ; fill the skins with this farce, and fasten them up to look like the original form. Dip them in oil or melted butter; cover them with bread crumbs ; lay them on thin slices of bacon in a dish, and bake them. When done, and of a nice colour, drain off the fat, and serve with a rich sauce. Tench au Restaurant.*—Prepare your tench as directed (Tench Stuffed)-, and then soak them in melted butter, with parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper ; when thoroughly saturated, cover them with grated bread, place them between thin slices of bread and butter, on a well but- tered dish. Pour over them some carp or other fish gravy, and bake them in a slow oven. Tench (Rousted).*—'lake off scales, heads, and fins, of the tench, cleanse and dry them well, then put into each a little butter, mixed with sweet herbs; lay them for about five minutes in melted butter, with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs ; wrap each fish in paper, fasten them to a spit, and roast them. Tench in a Salmis or Hash.— thoroughly cleanse and wash the tench, then cut off the head, and split it down the back, and cut both the sides into three or four pieces; have ready on the fire some good consomme in a large stewpan, with a carrot, onion, some parsley, peppercorns, salt, a clove of garlic, abay leaf, a bit of lean ham, and hal a bottle of port. Let the tench stew in this till well done, and then put it into another stewpan. The liquor in which the fish was done, must be stewed down with our large spoonsful of sauce tournee till i( ° a moderate thickness, then squeeze in hTOA THO 491 juice of half a lemon, and serve it to table very hot. Tench (to souse).—Having drawn the tench, clear away the slime, and cut oft' the gills ; put the fish into a kettle with some water, vinegar, bay leaves, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, pepper, and salt. When done, take off the loose scales, and lay the tench in a dish carefully; strain the liquor, add a little clarified isinglass to it, boil it a little while, then strain it again, and pour it over the fish. It must not be touched till quite cold. Tench stewed with Wine. — Let the tench be well cleansed, and crimped, then set it in a stewpan with some good con- somme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, and some peppercorns ; let it stew gently between two fires till well done; then take it out, lay it on a dish, then make the liquor tolerably thick, by stewing it with three spoonsful of sauce tournee ; if not perfectly smooth, squeeze it through a tammy, put in the juice, add a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour this sauce over the fish ; garnish with quenelles. Tench (Stuffed).—Cut off the tails and fins of your tench, split them down the back, take out the large bone, and fill the spaces with a farce, composed of carp, smelts, or any other fish; close the open- ing with flour, and fry them in butter. When about two thirds done, put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good stock, sweet herbs, carp roes, pepper, and salt; finish dressing them over a gentle fire, let the sauce reduce, and serve them. Terrine de Nerac.*—Take four fine partridges, truss them with the legs' in- wards, and partly dress them. Make a farce of some . pieces, and livers of par- tridges, double the quantity of bacou, pound these well, season them with spices and sweet herbs (in powder), salt, pepper, and the trimmings of truffles ; have ready two pounds of truffles, picked and washed. Split the partridges down the back, sea- son and stuff them with the farce and truffles; put a layer of farce at the bottom of the tureen, put the partridges on it, fill the interstices with the truffles and farce, cover the whole with rashers of bacon and two bay leaves, put on the lid of the tureen, fasten it down with paste, and bake it for three hours. i HOIINHAt.K.—Let them hang at least one day before being dressed ; they may be served either boiled or fried, in bread crumbs, being first dipped in egg. THRUSHES.—These birds are dressed the same as woodcocks. TIMBALE.*—Put a pound of flour on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which pour a little water, three or four spoonsful of oil, a quarter of a pound oi butter, the yolks of two eggs, and a pinch of salt; knead these ingredients thoroughly into the flour, until it becomes a tolerably firm paste ; roll it out to nearly halt an inch in thickness, line one large or several small plain round moulds with this paste ; let the moulds be well but- tered, and the paste come about half an inch above the top of the mould ; fill your timbale with any farce or ragout you think proper, cover it with a layer of paste, pressing the edges together; bake it, and when done, turn the timbale on a dish, make a hole, pour in some rich sauce or gravy, and serve. 1 OASTS with Butter*—Spread butter over some slices of fried bread ; lay on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted butter, and serve. I oasts (Genoa).—Lard fi French roll with partly anchovies, and partly ham; cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin slice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry them ; drain, and serve with ravigote. 1 oasts a la Grenade*—Cut some fat and lean bacon into dice, give them a few turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, shalots, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three eggs ; stir it frequently till it forms a kind of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, cut of an equal thickness, and fry them. Toasts a l’Italienne.*—Cut some slices of bread, about half an inch in thickness, fry them in sweet oil, let it be dry and crisp; lay them on a dish, and spread o\ er them any light good farce you may think proper; pour over them an appro- priate sauce, and serve them. 1 oasts a l’Italienne.*—Pound the white meat of a fowl, with some Parmesan cheese and dry currants, mix with these ingredi- ents the yolks of eggs in due proportions ; roll them into fingers with flour, until they cease to adhere to your hand, fry them in boiling lard, and serve with either salt or sugar. Toast a la Minime.—Cut some slices of bread half an inch thick, and divide them into slips, fry them in a little oil, and when of a nice colour, lay them on a dish, with fillets of anchovies; put shalots, parsley, garlic, a bay leaf, thyme (all shred small), whole pepper, and a little492 TON TOM vinegar, into tlie oil, toss them up in it, and then strain it over the toast. Toasts (Pounded').—Pound together a piece of puff paste, a cold roasted veal kidney, some of the fat, a few hitter al- monds, orange flowers, lemon peel, pre- served citron, a pinch of salt, and a little sugar; bind these together, with the whites of four eggs, beaten well; spread this preparation over slices of bread, cut as for toast, and bake them. Toasts (Puffed).—Pound together the breast of a roast fowl, some beef marrow, and Parmesan cheese, mix with this paste five eggs, the yolks well beaten, and the whites whipped to a froth, spread it over slices of fried bread, egg them, and strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over, bake them a little while, and serve them with a good relishing sauce. Toasts (Spanish).—-Roll out some almond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it into pieces about two inches square, press them down with a square piece of wood, a little smaller than the paste, which will leave the edges higher than the rest; hake them, and when cold, pour in any prepared cream you please, as high as the borders ; ice, and colour them with a salamander. TOM ATAS (Garnitureof).*—Take thirty tomatas, all as near of a size as possible, and of a good form ; cut them in halves, press out the juice, seeds, and pieces by the side of the stalk, hut do it with great care, lest the skins should he injured; make a farce as follows : Take a little ham, garlic, parsley, shalots, champignons (shred), the yolks of two hard eggs, crumb of bread, an anchovy, butter, salt, nutmeg, and allspice; give all these a boil, and then pound them well, adding at times a little oil; strain it through a quenelle sieve ; fill the tomatas with this farce, place them on a baking-tin, cover them with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, moisten them with a little oil, and bake them in a hot oven. Serve the to- matas as a garnish to a rump of beef, or any other joint you may think proper. Tomata Ketchup.*—Take tomatas when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till tender, strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice, add a pint of Chili vinegar, an ounce of shalots, halt an ounce of garlic, both sliced, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, finely powdered ; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it again through the sieve. To every pound add the juice of three lemons; boil it again to the consistence of cream ; when cold, bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over, and keep it in a dry place. Tomatas (Preserved).*—Gather some very ripe tomatas; having washed and drained them, cut them into pieces, which put into a well-tinned copper saucepan; set it on the fire, and when the tomatas are quite dissolved, and reduced one third in quantity, press it through a coarse sieve, but sufficiently so to retain the seeds ; re- place the pulp on the fire, let it boil till reduced to one third of the original quan- tity; then put it into a pan, and when cold bottle it; close them hermetically, wrap each bottle in cloth and put them into a large saucepan filled with water ; cover the saucepan, and put a wet cloth over the lid to prevent the least evapora- tion ; set the saucepan on the fire to boil for an hour and a half or two hours. After that time take it from the fire, draw off the water; in half an hour remove the cloth, and in another hour take out the bottles; the next day resin the corks. Tomata Sauce Franqaise.*—Cut ten or a dozen tomatas into quarters, and put them into a saucepan, with four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, and a quarter of a pound of butter; set the saucepan on the fire, stirring occasion- ally for three quarters of an hour ; strain the sauce through a horsehair sieve, and serve with the directed articles. Tomata Sauce a l’ltalienne* 1 ake five or six onions, slice, and put them into a saucepan, with a little thyme, hay leaf, twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of butter, salt, half a dozen allspice, a little India saffron, and a glass of stock ; set them on the fire, taking care to stir it frequently, as it is apt to stick : when you perceive the sauce is tolerably thick, strain it like a purie. TONGUE.—A tongue which has not been dried will require very little soaking, but if dried, it should be soaked in water for three or four hours ; then put it into cold water, and let it boil gentlv till tender. Tongues (Pickle far).*—Half a pound of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, the same of moist sugar, three pounds of common salt, and two gallons of soft water ; boil the whole together, and skim it well. When cold, pour it over the tongue. This pickle will not require boiling again for six weeks. Tongue (to pickle).*—Take a fine neat’s tongue, and put it into the follow-493 TOU TOU ing pickle: Four gallons of water, four pounds of common salt, the same of bay salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, two ounces of saltprunella, one ounce of allum, and a pound of coarse sugar; boil these together, skimming it well. Lay in the tongue, let it remain ten days, turning it two or three times in that period. Dry the tongue by a wood fire. Tongue (Potted).—Do it as for pick- ling ; when it has laid its proper time, cut off the root, boil it until it will peel; then season it with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all beat fine; rub the seasoning well in while it is hot, put it into a pan, pour melted butter over it, and send it to the oven; an hour is suffi- cient to bake it; when done, let it stand to cool, rub a little more spice over it, and lay it in the pot it is to be kept in; when the butter it was baked in is cold, take it from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over the tongue; if there is not sufficient to cover it, more must be added ; the butter must be an inch higher than the tongue. Tongue (Stewed).—Let it simmer for two hours in just sufficient quantity of water to cover it; then peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied in a bit of muslin ; a few capers, turnips cut in very small pieces, and carrots sliced ; half a pint of beef gravy, a little white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let it stew very gently until tender, then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Tongue and Udder roasted. — Parboil the tongue and udder, stick in them ten or twelve cloves, roast them, and baste with red wine, and froth them nicely with a bit of butter. Serve with gravy and sweet sauce. The udder eats well boiled with the tongue. Tongue and Udder stuffed with Force- meat and roasted.—Boil the tongue and udder until tender, peel the tongue, stick it with a few cloves, raise the udder, wash the inside with the yolk of egg, make a good forcemeat of veal, and fill it; tie the ends close together, and roast them ; baste them with red wine and butter. Serve with good gravy, and currant jelly. (For other methods of dressing tongue, see Neat’s Tongue.) TOURTE d VAnglaise*—Take two ounces of stoned raisins, one ounce of cur- rants, some candied cedrats, cut into dice, mix these with some frangipane, a little beef marrow, dissolved, and a small quan- tity of Madeira wine, and proceed as di- rected. (See Tourte of Frangipane.) Tourte au Zephir.—Having rolled out some good puff paste in two pieces of the same thickness, put one on the other, cut out some pieces with a cutter the size of the patty-pans you intend baking in ; notch the edges, brush the tops over with egg, bake them ; they should be verv light; separate the top from the bottom piece, take out the soft part, put in your emincde of game, meat, or fish ; put on the covers or tops and serve hot. Tourte d’Entree.*—Make a paste as for timbales ; roll out a part of it a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into two circular pieces, one of eight inches in diameter, and the other nine inches and a half. Take thirty-six or forty balls, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, of godiveau, half of which lay on the smaller piece of the paste, leavin'o- an inch all round ; on these place some scallops of sweetbreads, dressed in sweet herbs, champignons, and artichoke bottoms cut in pieces; then put the remainder of the balls, four crayfish, champignons, and artichoke bottoms. Place all these articles in the form of a dome, and put the larger piece of paste over the whole, turn the edge of the lower piece over the other, and press them together; take a band of puff paste, long enough to go round the bottom of the tourte, an inch and a quarter deep, and the same thickness as the abovemen- tioned layers ; fix this rouud the tourte, and pinch or mark it in proper form ; take the cuttings of the tourte paste, roll it into small bands, all the same length and size, and place them on the top of the dome, so as to make a kind of false top in the form of a rosette ; dorez this, put a piece of strong paper, buttered, round the band of puff paste, and place the tourte in a brisk oven, for an hour and a half. It should be looked at whilst baking, as it happens sometimes that too much air is enclosed in the tourte, which, by the heat of the oven, expands, and thereby spoils its appearance : in this case, when the crust begins to harden, make a hole at the top, with the head of a pin, the air can thus escape, and the shape of the tourte be preserved. When done, cut neatly a small piece out of the top, pour in some espagnole, put the piece on again, and serve. Tourte d’Entree au Chasseur.*—Take a small partridge, and a small snipe, cut each in half, two quails, six larks, the loins and legs of a wild rabbit, and four truffles, eachTRI TRO 494 cut into five slices ; put all these into a pan, with some butter and sweet herbs; season them, and set them on the fire ; when all the above are warmed through, take off the pan, and leave them to cool. In the mean time, prepare your tourte as directed, and lay in the game in the form of a dome, filling up the spaces with the herbs, in which the articles were dressed. Cover it in the usual way, and bake it in a brisk oven for an hour and a half. When done, pour in some espagnole, mixed with a fumet of game, and truffles. Tourte en Puits.—Scoop out the insides of half a dozen large onions, throw them into boiling water a minute, then drain, and fill the cavities with some of the following farce: Mince small some scalded sweet- breads, mushrooms, truffles, shalots, pars- ley, and bacon ; mix these with the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and salt. Put a layer of this also over the bottom of a deep dish, lined with puff paste, place the onions on it, add a little butter, cover them with a puff paste, and hake for two hours in a mo- derate oven. When done, pour in some rich sauce, and serve it hot. TREACLE Pudding.*—Mix together a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters of a pound of shred suet, a pound of flour, a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice; when well stirred up, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. TRIFLE.*—Cover the bottom of the dish with Naples biscuits, and macaroons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and white wine, poured over them ; cover them with patches of raspberry jam ; fill the dish with a good custard, then whip up a syllabub, drain the froth on a sieve; put it on the custard, and strew comfits over. Trifle.—Sweeten three pints of cream ; add to it half a pint of mountain wine, grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeze in the juice, and grate in half a nutmeg ; whisk this up, lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve over a dish that has ratafia cakes, macaroons, sweet almonds blanched and pounded, citron and candied orange peel cut into small pieces, some currant jelly, and rasperry jam in it, that the liquor may run upon them; when they are soaked, lay them in the dish you intend to serve in, put on the froth as high os possible, well drained ; stew over nonpareils, and stick on little slices of citron, orange, or lemon peel. Trifle.—Lay some macaroons and ra- tafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and soak them well with raisin wine; when soaked, pour on them a very rich cold custard. It must stand two or three inches thick ; on that put a layer of rasp- berry jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the preceding day, of rich cream, the whites of two eggs, well beaten, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine, well beat with a whisk. It is best to make it the day before it is wanted, being more solid and better tasted. TRI PE (Breaded).*—Cut your tripe into small square pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter, with parsley, salt, and pepper; roll each hit iu grated bread, and broil them slowly. When done, serve them with slices of lemon. Tripe (Kilkenny), Irish Dish*—Cut a piece of double tripe into square pieces, peel and wash ten large onions, cut each in two, and boil them in a little water till tender, then put in the tripe ; when it has boiled ten minutes, pour off all the liquor, shake a little flour into it, and add some butter, mustard, and salt; shake the whole over the fire, till the but- ter is melted; then dish, and serve as hot as possible; garnish with lemon sliced or barberries. Tripe (Stewed).*—Cut a pound of tripe into pieces, and put it into a small sauce- pan, with half a pint of milk, three ounces of rice, a little allspice, and pepper, pounded, and a little celery seed tied in a bit of muslin ; let the whole stew gently for four hours, and serve. (For other methods of dressing tripe, see Beef.) TROUT.—This fish is held in great estimation, it is a fresh-water .fish and when good, of a flesh colour, and the spots upon it are very bright; the female is considered the best, and is known by the head being smaller, and the body being deeper than that of the male. It is most in season during the month of June. Trout a l'Anglai<e*—Boil the fish in a court-lmuillon, take off the fillets, lay them on a dish, and keep them hot in a bain- marie. Roll some butter in flour, dissolve it in either veal or fish gravy, according as you wish to serve it, in gras or maigre f add a slice or two of lemon, salt, pep- per, and nutmeg; stir it well over the fire, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and pour the sauce, whilst boiling, over the fillets. Trout (P.oiled).—Boil them with some vinegar in the water, some salt, and a bit of horseradish ; serve with white sauce, anchovy sauce, or plain butter.TRO TRO 495 Tn out (Collared).—They are done in the same manner as eels are collared. 'I rout (Fried').—After they are well scaled, gutted, and washed, dry them, rub them with yolk of egg, flour or strew fine crumbs of bread over, and fry them of a fine colour; serve with crisped parsley, and plain butter, or anchovy sauce. rrout a la Genoise .*—Lay trout in a fish-kettle, and put on them two carrots, and four onions, all sliced, parsley, scal- lions, two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, salt, pepper, and red wine; set it on the fire, and stew it gently half an hour; strain the liquor, and put it into another saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and three dessert- spoonsful of flour; set it on the fire, and stir till it is all well united; re- duce it over a large fire, and when it will adhere to the spoon, serve it over the trout, previously drained. Trout (Marinated).—Fry some trout in a sufficient quantity of oil to cover them, put them in when the oil is boiling; as soon as they are crisp take them out, and lay them to drain till they are cold ; then make a marinade ot equal quantities of white wine and vinegar, with some salt, whole pepper, nutmeg, cloves, mace, sliced gin- ger, savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, a bay leaf, and two onions; let all these boil together for a quarter of an hour ; put the fish into a pan, pour the marinade to them hot, put in as much oil as vinegar and white wine, which must be according to the quantity of fish, as there must be a sufficient quantity of liquor to cover them • they will then keep for a month. Serve with oil and vinegar. Trout d la Mariniere.*—Scale, and cleanse your fish as usual; put inside each a little butter mixed with sweet herbs pepper, and salt; put them into a stewpan* with as much white wine as will rise about an inch above them, add salt, pepper, nut- meg onions, set the whole on a fierce fire • it the wine does not catch, set it alight with a piece of lighted paper. When thickened, put into the sauce a bit of but- ter ; this, if well stirred in, will make the hquor smooth and rich ; pour it over the nsn and serve. 17rotr:,. Pii~]NiceIy lani a c°upie of trout with eels; raise a crust, and put a layer of fresh butter at the bottom ; make a forcemeat of trout, mushrooms, truffles morels, andl fresh better; season with salt’ pepper and spice, and hind it with the yolks of two raw eggs; stuff the trout with this forcemeat, then lay them in the pie upon the butter, and cover them with but- ter ; put on the lid, and send it to the oven; when done, pour in some good fish gravy. Trout a la Saint FLorentin .*—Cut some fillets of trout the length and thickness of a finger; put these pieces into a pan, with the juice of two lemons, four onions sliced, parsley, two bay leaves, a little thyme, salt, and pepper; move them about fre- quently. When they have lain in it suffi- ciently long, drain them thoroughly; flour and fry them in a very hot pan; serve them with sauce piquante. Trout (Soused).—Well wash a couple of middling-sized trout; then take three pints of white-wine vinegar, a quart of water, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper, salt, mace, and a grated nutmeg; boil all these together in a stewpan suffi- ciently large to hold the trout; when it has boiled some time, put in the fish; as soon as they are done, lay them in a dish till they are cold; pour off the liquor, take out the onion and herbs, and let it stand till cold ; then take off all the fat, and pour the liquor over the fish; they will be ready for use the next day. If sent to table hot, serve with shrimp or lobster sauce, made with the pickle, and garnish the dish with fried smelts. They are very good served cold. (Stewed).—Take a large one, stuff it with grated bread, a bit of butter parsleychopped, lemon peel grated, pepper salt, nutmeg, savory herbs, bind with yolk eSS; put it into a stewpan, with a quart of good boiled gravy, some Madeira wine, an onion, a little whole pepper, a fewcloves, and a piece of lemon peel, let all stew gently till done, then thicken with a little flour mixed in some cream, a little ketchup ; boil it up; squeeze in a little lemon juice. Tnour with Truffles.*— When scaled mid cleansed, lard them with truffles, and ill each with some fine truffle farce; then braise them in wine, with truffles, white onions, artichoke bottoms, salt, and pep- per. Serve them with a ragout of sliced truffles. 1 rout a la Venitienne*—Slit the fish “long the back, and put in a little butter and sweet herbs; soak them for half an hour in obve oil, then cover them with bread crumbs aud sweet herbs ; boil them over a slow fire ; serve with a sauce, in which put two slices of orange.TRU 496 TRU TRUFFLES*—The truffle, like the mushroom, is a species of fungus common in France and Italy;■ it generally grows about eight or ten inches below the surface of the o-round ; as it imparts a most deli- cious flavour, it is much used in cookery. Being dug out of the earth, it requires a great deal of washing and brushing, before it can be applied to culinary purposes; when washed, the water should be warm, and changed frequently. It loses much of its flavour when dried. Truffles a la Cendre.*—Take a dozen truffles dressed with Champagne, have as many small slices of bacon as you have truffles; cut a quantity of square pieces of paper, on some of these put a bit of bacon, and a truffle seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; wrap them m the bacon first, and then in the paper. When all are done, dip each paper into cold water, and then put them into hot ashes, like chestnuts. In an hour’s time they will be sufficiently done. Take off the two outer covering's, and serve. Truffles with Champagne," lake ten or twelve well-cleaned truffles; put them into a stewpan on rashers of bacon, add a bay leaf, a seasoned bouquet, a little grated bacon, some stock, a slice or two of ham, and a bottle of Champagne ; cover them with a piece of buttered paper, put on the lid, and set the stewpan on hot ashes ; put fire on the top, and let them stew for an hour. When done, drain them on a clean cloth, and serve on a folded napkin. Truffles a l’Italienne*—Cut about a handful of truffles either into slices or dice ; put them into a stewpan with a little butter ; sweat them over a slow fire ; then moisten with half a glass of Champagne, and two spoonsful of reduced espagnole ; add some shred parsley, and shalots, salt, and pepper; give the whole a hoi1, take off all the fat, put in a few drops of oil, ^Truffles {token,)*-Make a choice of the blackest truffles; let them he fresh feathered; when thoroughly washed and brushed, peel them carefully with » sharp knife, reject all which are not perfectly sound; put them into bottles as close as they will lay; cork them tight, and boil them for an hour in the bain-marie. Truffles d la Mi»ute.*-T«ke as many well washed truffles as you may require slice them into a dish that will bear the firc ; add to them, shred pars ey. scalhon and shalots, salt, pepper, and a little cover your dish and set it on the When done, serve with a little lemon juice. Truffle Omelet *—Fry your omelet as usual, and when nearly done, with a spoon take out the thick part of the mid- dle, and put in its place some truffles, lightly fried in a little espagnole ; as soon as the omelet is finished, lay it on a dish ; mince two truffles very small, give them a few turns over the fire in a little butter, add four ladiesful of espagnole, and pour this sauce over the omelet. Truffles a la Piedmontaise.*—Mince your truffles as small as possible, pour some oil on a silver dish, on which put a layer of the truffles, seasoned with salt and pepper, then a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, and so on alternately, until you have as much in vour dish as you think proper, and set it in the oven for a quarter of an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them. Truffles a la Prorencale*—Cut some truffles into slices, put them into a sauce- pan with oil, parsley, two cloves of garlic, salt, and pepper. Set them on hot ashes for an hour. In the mean time dissolve a good bit of butter, rolled in flour, in some good stock ; then add half a glass of white wine, and let it boil for halt an hour, take off' all the fat; and when the truffles are done, and drained, serve with tire sauce poured over them. Truffles (Ragout of).—Peel, and slice a dozen truffles, put them into a saucepan, with a little butter, parsley, scallions, halt a clove of garlic, and two cloves ; let them simmer a minute or two, add a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and another of stock ; let it stew half an hour; clear off the fat, and serve it seasoned with salt and pepper. Truffles (Eagout of)*—Choose your truffles as round as you can, wash them in several waters, until the last water is quite clear ; pick and cut them into slices or dice; give them a few turns in a little butter, with grated nutmeg, parsley, scal- lions, half a clove of garlic, and two cloves; boil them with some consomme' and espag- nole ; take off the fat, reduce and finish the ragout with a glass of Champagne and a little butter. , Truffle Sauce.*— Mince two or three truffles very small, and toss them up lightly, in either oil or butter, according to your taste ; then put to them four or five ladiesful of eeloute and a spoonfulI of consomme; let it boil for about a quarter of an hour over a gentle fire, sk.m off aUTUR TUN 497 the fat; keep jour sauce hot in the bain- marie. Truffle Sauce.—Take eight truffles, clean, and cut them round, and then cut them in thin slices into a stewpan, set them to stew very gently with a small bit of butter; when well stewed, add two table-spoonsful of consomme, and let it sim- mer till nearly dry; then put in some bcchumelle sauce, the quantity must be regulated according to what you want it for; make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon juice; it is then ready. If you wish the sauce to be browu, put in espagnole in- stead of bechamelle sauce. Truffles en Surprise.*—Take a dozen large truffles, of as good a shape, and as near of a size, as possible; dress them in some Champagne wine, drain, and let them cool; then place them on the flattest side, and with a root-cutter of an inch diameter, mark out the centre to within a fourth of their thickness; cut the top of these out with the point of a knife, and clear away the remainder; fill up the space thus left with a puree of fowl or game, a salpicon, or any ragout, or other puree, mixed with bechamelle, you may think proper ; when all are filled, cover the aperture with the piece taken out, and serve your truffles either in a croustade or on a folded napkin. Truffles (Tour l e of).*—Take two pounds of fine truffles, wash and pick them ; put them into a stewpan, with six thin slices of ham, a very little carrot, a sliced onion, a bay leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and Champagne; lay rashers of bacon over the whole, and stew them to nearly a jelly. When cold, put the truffles into a crust witli all the seasoning; bake the tourte, and serve as usual. Truffles (Tourte of).—Boil a dozen peeled truffles in a pint of cream, with a quarter of a pound of sugar ; when the cream is reduced to half, take out the truffles, pound them to a paste, which stir into the cream ; line a dish with al- mond paste, pour in the above, cover the tourte, bake, and ice it. TRUSSING (Directions for).—See the different articles. TUNNY.—This salt-water fish is but little known in England. When fresh, it is stewed with butter, parsley, and scallions, shred; it is then breaded, and browned with a salamander. r It may- also be boiled like fresh salmon. The tunny, however, is most commonly pickled, and served cold in a salad. TURBOT.—Turbot, when good, should be thick and full, and the belly of a yel- lowish white or cream-colour. Iuiibot (Baked).*—Wash your fish in several waters, dry it well, and soak it in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, salt and nutmeg ; in half an hour put the whole into a baking-dish, envelop it completely in bread crumbs, and bake it. 1 ureot (Breaded).*—Prepare a small turbot as usual, slit it across the back, and soak it for an hour in melted butter, or or lemon juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper.—Cover the fish with bread crumbs, and broil it; when done, squeeze lemon, or Seville orange juice over it, and serve. Turbot (Croquettes of).*—Are made like those of cod. Turbot a.u Court-bouillon.* Fill a large saucepan with water, and put into it a pound of salt, twenty bay leaves, a handful of thyme, the same of parsley, twenty scallions, and half the number of large onions sliced; set it on the fire; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and then strain it. As soon as it is quite clear, rub the white side of a large turbot, either with lemon juice or milk, put it into a fish-kettle, and pour the court-bouillon over it; set it on the fire to simmer for half an hour, or more, according to its size. When done, take it out carefully, let it drain, and serve it on a folded napkin; garnish with parsley. Turbot a la Creme*—Put into a sauce- pan a quarter of a pound of butter, a des- sert-spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of good cream, or more if necessary ■ set it on the fire, and keep stirrino- till sufficiently smooth, and the right consist- ence ; take a ready-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, and put them into another saucepan, pour the sauce over them, make the whole quite hot, and then serve. 1 urbot (Ftlletsof).*—Cutthefillets from a turbot, dressed in a court-bouillon. Dis- solve some butter with an anchovy, shred parsley and sweet herbs, salt, nutmeo-, and pepper; add a glass of cream, put m the fillets, stir them gently over the fire till the sauce is thick and smooth ; then serve. Turbot (Glace).*—Take off the skin, tail, and fins of a turbot, and lard it. with bacon; put it into a stewpan, with a pint or more of wine, two slices of lemon, five or six onions sliced, pepper, and salt; set it on a moderate fire, and when about two thirds doue, take it off, and leave the fish 2 x498 TUR TUR to cool. In the mean time, boil a laiuclde of veal in some stock, with half a glass of white wine; reduce it to a jelly; lot it take a fine clear colour, and whilst hot, pour it on a dish over the turbot, spread it equally over the whole, and serve. Trn hot au Gratin *•—Take some pieces of ready-dressed turbot, remove the skin and bones, and put the pieces into a sauce- pan, with some bdchamelle maigre, set it on the fire, make it quite hot, without letting it boil; spread it all over a dish, make it quite smooth with the blade of a knife, cover it with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese ; pour some melted butter on it, garnish your dish with fried bread, put it in the oven to colour, and serve. Turbot (Grilled).*—Split the fish down the back, and soak it for some time, with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, broil, and serveit with lemon, or Seville orange juice, Turbot a la Hollandaise. — Put your turbot into a fish-kettle, with equal quan- tities of milk and. water, a bit oi butter, salt, lemon squeezed in and rubbed over the turbot, put paper over it, and let it simmer gently till done ; then take it up, drain it from the liquor, and serve it on a dish without a fish-plate, and pour a sauce a la Hollandaise nil over. Turbot with Macaroni in a Gratin. Take the remains of a turbot which has been dressed the preceding day, and pick it from the bone, put it into hot water, to make it separate into flakes, and then put it into some very good cream sauce, with a litte pipe macaroni, well boiled ; be par- ticular that there is no water either in the flakes of turbot or the macaroni, as it would spoil the sauce; when made very hot in the sauce, put it on a dish, strew bread crumbs over it, sprinkle some clarified butter over with a spoon, then strew broad crumbs again ; brown it with the salamander, and serve. Turbot en Matelote Normande.*—lake a small turbot, and having prepared it ns usual, slit it down the back, separate the flesh from the bones, between which put a good maitre d’hitel; take a silver or other dish that will bear the fire, put into it six large onions cut into dice, season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, thyme, bay leaf, and parsley, all dry and rubbed into powder; then lay the turbot on it, strew salt over, put lemon juice, melted butter, and add half a bottle of white Wine ; place your dish on a moderately heated stove, covered with a portable oven; baste it frequently. Cut some bread into pieces the size of a crownpiece, and when the turbot is done, place them round the dish and serve. Turbot (Mayonnaise of ).*—The pieces are soaked in a mayonnaise, and served as usual. (See Turkey a la Mayonnaise.) Turbot a la Ste. Menehould.*—Take the remains of a ready-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, lay them on a dish, with bechamelle, make the top quite smooth, and cover it with grated bread and Parmesan cheese; moisten it with melted butter; make it hot in the oven, and colour the top with a salamander. Turbot with Pannesan.—Soak a couple of small turbot in melted butter, with shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; when they have lain about an hour, pour the butter, &c. on a dish, with a little cullis, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, in equal quantities; place the fish on it, cover them in the same manner, and bake. When done, clean the dish, andserve dry. Turbot (Stuffed and Riled).*—Your tur- bot being properly cleansed, turn over the skin of the under side, without cutting it off; make a farce with some butter, par- sley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all shred, and united together with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; spread this all over the under part of the fish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter iu a saucepan; add to it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweetlierbs shred, salt, and pepper; rub the fish all over with this,then bread,and bake it. Turbot with Caper Sauce.—Put a sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and sweet herbs into a stewpan, place a small turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt, pepper, and a leek cut in pieces over it; cover the fish with equal quantities of vinegar and white wine; let it boil over a moderate fire until sufficiently done ; in the mean time, melt a pound of butter, add to it a^ couple of boned anchovies, two spoonsful of capers, shred small two or three leeks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, stock, and a sprinkling of flour : make all these quite hot, stirring constantly till done; then dish the turbot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. TUREEN a la Flamande.— lake tour sheep’s tails, half a pound of pickled pork, six turkey pinions, and a large savoy, cut in quarters, tie all these up separately; scald the two latter, and then put all int a largo saucepan, with parslet, sw ‘ ® herbs', scallions, cloves, pepper, and sail,TUR 499 TUR put in sufficient stock to cover it: close the saucepan, and let it boil till all the ar- ticles are done ; then drain the meat, put it into a tureen, and pour the sauce over, having well skimmed it. Tuheen M6lang£e*—Braise three pi- geons, three sheep’s tails, a dozen larks, some slices of streaked bacon, fillets of poultry, a little veal, and some small sausages pricked in several places; do them in a sufficient quantity of stock, and let them simmer for four or five hours. Take off all the fat; pour tire whole into a large tureen, and serve. Tureen a la Neuvaine.—Take any kind of meat, game, or poultry, according to your pleasure, mince it small, and mix it with chopped onions, shred suet, salt, spices, and half a glass of brandy; put this mixture into a deep dish that will bear the fire; cover it close, and fasten it down with a paste; set it on a moderate fire to stew slowly. In about five hours’ time remove the paste, clear away the fat, and serve it either hot or cold. Tureen Proven^ale.*—Put into a glazed pan half a pound of rice, on which lay two or three rashers of bacon, a large fowl, and two pigeons; cover these with lentils’ and pour in two quarts of warm water : put your pan into amoderate oven for three hours ; at the end of that time, pour the whole into a soup tureen, and serve very hot. J Tureen Royale*—Take some fillets of kid and lamb, a fat pheasant, two par- tridges, a leveret, and two pigeons; lard all these with streaked bacon, and place them in a large braising-pan on slices of bacon and veal, with salt and spices; pour over them a pint of good stock; close the pan, lute the edges with paste, and set it on a moderate fire for six hours. In the mean time, take some veal sweetbreads truffles boiled in white wine, morels, and any other article you please; put them into some good stock, and let them sim- mer some time. When your braise is quite done, pour it into a tureen, placiiw the largest pieces at the bottom ; place the sweetbreads, See. over all the rest, and serve. TURKEYS.—A young turkey-cock has smooth black logs, with a short spur the eyes full and bright, and the feet soft and pliable. An old lion turkey's legs are rough and red, the vent hard ; if with the vent will be soft and open ; the hen turkey is the best for boiling. Tur- keys are trussed according to the same manner as directed for fowls, and put some good stuffing (the same as for fillet of veal) in the part from which the crop was taken, whether roasted or boiled. 1 urkey (Attelets oj ).*—Take the breast ot a cold roasted turkey, cut it into thin slices about an inch square; cut some truffles and boiled streaked bacon in the same manner, split some large champig- nons also, and put them with the above into an attelet sauce; when they have thoroughly imbibed it, put them alter- nately on halt a dozen silver skewers, dip them in beaten eggs, cover them with bread crumbs, egg, and bread them a second time, and then fry them. Turkey (Bailed).—Make a stuffing of Head, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg ; put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it veiy white. Have ready some oyster sauce made rich with butter, a little cream, and serve over the turkey, or you may serve over it a liver and lemon sauce. Turkey (Boiled) au Bourgeois.—Truss the turkey for boiling; put in some salt, a laige handful of chopped parsley, and some peppercorns; as soon as the water boils, put in the turkey, and let it boil very gently till sufficiently done, but not too much so ; in the mean while set on a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in nour, a little water, some parsley cut very small, a thin slice of garlic, two an- chovies, a little lemon peel, cut into dice, a little lemon juice, and some salt; let these all stew together, then thicken it, and serve it over the turkey. Turkey (Blanquette of).*— Cut the white meat from a cold turkey, in neat pieces, and put it into a stewpan ; cut as many champignons as you think proper, in pieces tho size of a farthing, put them into water and lemon juice to keep them w ute ; put a little butter into a stewpan with the juice of half a lemon, add the champignons, set them on the fire, and when fried a little add consomme ami veloute ; reduce this to half, skim, and take °ft all the fat, then pour the sauce on the meat, set it on the fire to make it quite hot without boiling, put in a liaison of an egg or two, and an ounce of butter, and serve it; add a little Cayenne and salt. I urkey Capilotade, Croquettes, and Quenelles—Aro made in the same manner as those of fowls. 2 k 2500 TUR TUB, Turkey (Cold)—May be served gar- nished with savory jelly and water- cresses. Turkey en Daube*—Take an old tui- key, truss it in the usual way ; roll some laro-e lardons in a mixture of salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs, and then laid the turkey with them ; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, ivitli two small knuckles ot veal, the feet of the bird, four carrots, six onions, three cloves, two bay leaves, thyme, a bunch of parsley, cover the whole with bacon and a piece of buttered paper ; dilute it with four ladiesful of stock (or more if the turkey be very large), putin a little^ salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil slowly for three hours and a half; then take it off, hut do not take the bird out tor at least half an hour. Strain off the liquor, and then reduce it to a fourth, or more it very thin; break an egg into another saucepan, beat it up well, and then pour the liquor on it, whisk them well together, and if it wants flavour, add a few sweet herbs, parsley leaves, and a young onion or two ; put it on the fire, stirring it vio- lently until ready to boil; as soon as it has boiled up once or twice, set it by the side of a stove, put fire on the top ot the saucepan, and let it simmer half an hour ; then strain it carefully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to serve it with the turkey. Turkey d la Fourre*— Take a fine plump turkey, bone it carefully through the back without injuring the skin, l ake two slices of very white tender veal, lard these slices quite through with large lardims, and put them within the turkey ; lard also the inside of the bird, but do nut pierce the skin ; close the opening, and jrive the bird an oval form, the pinion bones and drumsticks ought to be left on ; tie up the turkey, spit and roast it gently, basting with its own gravy. Turkey (Galantine oj).*—lake a line fat turkey, bone it entirely, beginning with the 'back, and taking great care not to injure the breast, remove all the sinews from the legs; cut away the meat from the thickest parts, so as to make it all nearly the same level ; take some of this meat; cold chicken, or meat of any kind you please ; if you have two pounds ot lean, take two pounds of fat bacon, mince them small, and add salt, pepper, spices and sweet herbs; lard your turkey with moderate - sized lardons well seasoned. Spread all over the bird a layer of the farce an inch thick, on which place trut- fles, tongue a 16carlale, bacon, turkey, fowl, and fat livers, all cut into pieces about half an inch thick, and an inch and a half long; cover these with another layer of farce, and continue this operation alternately till all the farce is used ; then roll up the turkey, nearly in its proper form, but so that none ot the farce may escape ; sew it up, cover it with slices of bacon, wrap it in a coarse cloth with four or five bay leaves, tie it closely ; place it in a braising-pan on slices ot bacon ; add two knuckles of veal, six carrots, six onions, a large bunch of parsley and scal- lions, the bones of the turkey, four bay leaves, a little thyme, three cloves, and three ladiesful or more of stock ; cover your braising-pan close, and set it on the fire, and let it simmer for three hours. When done, take it from the fire, but leave the turkey in for half an hour ; on taking it from the pan, press it gently to get out all the gravy ; when quite cold, unwrap the bird ; strain the gravy through a lawn sieve, beat up an egg in it, set it on the fire, stirring till it boils, then put it by the side of the stove, with fire on the saucepan lid; in about half an hour, strain it again and leave it to cool; use it to garnish. . Turkey Giblets a la Bourgeoise.— 1 he pinions, neck, feet, liver, and gizzard, compose the giblets; when scalded and chopped, put them into a stewpan, with a little butter, parsley, scallions, garlic, thyme, bay leaf, basil, mushrooms, and a clove or two; moisten these with stock, season with pepper and salt; when enough, strain and thicken; add a few turnips slightly fried in a little butter. Turkey Giblets (Fricassee of). — fecald thoroughly the giblets from as many tur- keys as will make a handsome dish, then stew them well in two ounces of butter, as directed for them a la bourgeoise. \\ hen done, take out the herbs, make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, a little cream, and' some vinegar, and serve. Turkey in its own Gravy.—lake out the breastbone ot a turkey, and stuft it mt 1 a sweetbread scalded, mushroom-cut into small pieces, grated bacon, pepper, and salt; put the turkey, covered with slices of bacon, into a braising-pan just large enough to hold it, with a very little stock, a quarter of pint of white wine, a unc of sweet herbs, thyme, bay leaf, a few cloves, and a little nutmeg ; let 11 “™se slowly, and turn it two or three times when'done, skim the sauce, strain it, aaa501 TUR. TUR a chopped shalot, reduce the sauce, and serve it poured over the .turkey. Turkey (Hashed).—Cut up the remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a stevvpan, with a glass of white wine, chopped par- sley, shalots, mushrooms, truffles, salt, and pepper, two spoonsful of cullis, and a little stock ; boil half an hour, and reduce to a thick sauce; when ready, add a squeeze of lemon ; skim off all the fat from the sauce, and serve all together. Turkey (Hashed).—Stir a piece of but- ter rolled in flour into some cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils up ; mince some cold roasted or boiled turkey, but not too small; put it into the sauce, add grated lemon peel, white pepper, pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup or mush- room powder; simmer it up, and serve. Oysters may be added. Turkey Patties.—Mince some of the white part, mix it with grated lemon, nut- meg, salt, a very little white pepper, and some beclxamelle sauce, and fill the patties. Turkey with Oysters.— Truss a good white turkey for boiling, with the feet turned up like a fowl; tie some slices of fat bacon over the breast, boil it gently in braise, take it up a few minutes before wanted, in order to drain the water from it; take out the skewers and packthread which trussed it; set it on a large dish, and pour over it plenty of good white oyster sauce. Some stuffing should be put into the crop as directed for Turkey Roasted. Turkey Pie (Raised) with Tongue.— Bone a turkey, then take a boiled pickled tongue, pare off the skin, put it into the middle of the turkey, with a light, well- seasoned forcemeat, and some slices of sweetbread; sew it up, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Make a raised crust, lay some forcemeat at the bottom, then put in the turkey (the tur- key must be cold) with rashers of fat bacon tied over it; then put on the lid, ornament it, and set it in the oven to bake. When done, take off the lid, take out the bacon, glaze the breast lightly, add a cullis or truffle sauce, and serve. Turkey (Pulled).—Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting • then warm it in a little white gravy,°a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little shalot chopped fine, a squeeze of a lemon and a little flour and butter. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and serve in the middle of the dish, with the above all round. Turkey en RagoiU. — Have a ragout in bdchamelle sauce, of mushrooms, truf- fles, cocks’ combs, fat livers, and artichoke bottoms ; lay the turkey when boiled in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Turkey (Roasted).—It may be either stuffed with sausage meat, or stuffing the same as for fillet of veal. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, take care that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part, as it frequently happens that the breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of paper should be put on the bone to pre- vent its scorching, while the other parts are roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. A few bread crumbs, and a beaten egg should be added to the stuffing of sausage meat. Turkey a la Royale.—Make a mince with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truffles, put it into a Spanish or brown sauce ; the tur- key being roasted, dish it, add a little lemon juice to the mince, which pour into the dish, and serve. Turkey (to souse).—Bone a good-sized turkey, and tie it up like a sturgeon; put into a large saucepan two quarts of vinegar, a quart of water, and some salt; make it boil, and then put in the turkey, and let it boil till tender; then take the saucepan from the fire ; as soon as it is cold, put the whole into a pan, and let it stand three weeks. Serve it with elder vinegar, and garnish with fennel. Turkey (to stew). — Take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the turkey con- veniently, lay four skewers across at the bottom of the saucepan, and put in the turkey upon these; pour in a quart of good veal gravy, add a bunch of celery, cut into small pieces, and some beaten mace; let these stew as slowly as possible, till the gravy is more than half consumed; then put in a large piece of butter rolled in flour; when it is melted, put in a glass of Madeira or other white wine ; and if there is not a sufficient quantity of sauce, add a little strong veal gravy, thickened with butter; when it is tender take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce over; to which mav be added, if you think proper, pickled mush- rooms, or oysters. Turkey stuffed with Onions and pickled. Pork Scald two dozen of small white onions, and boil them in stock, with half a pound of pickled pork cut in thin slices, a bunch of parsley, green shalots, thyme, a bay leaf, two cloves, whole pepper, and salt; when done, drain them all, then502 1’UIl TUR stuff the turkey with them, and wrap the turkey in slices of bacon, over which put paper, and roast it: make a sauce with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, two shalots, and a few mushrooms; soak these for a time, then add two spoonsful of stock, the same quantity of cullis, let it simmer for about half an hour, skim and strain it; when ready, add a small spoonful of mustard, a little pepper and salt; serve this sauce with the turkey, Turkey stuffed with Sausages and Chest- nuts.—Roast what quantity of chestnuts you think necessary, peel them, and pound a part of them to make a farce, with the liver, chopped parsley, shalots, a little salt and pepper, a hit of butter, and the yolks of three raw eggs : put tlnsj'arce into the crop, and stuff the body with the whole chestnuts, and small sausages, first fried in butter till about half done; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, and put paper over that, then roast it, and serve with a chestnut cullis. Turkey stuff'ed with Truffles.—Peel about a pound, or a pound and a half of truffles, mix with them a little salt, pepper, and grated bacon, and stuff'your turkey with it; sew it up close, wrap it in two or three sheets of paper, and keep it in this state for three or four days, that it may take the flavour of the truffles, then roast it, well covered all round with slices of bacon, and paper over that ; serve with a Spanish sauce. Turkey era Surjirise*—Take a large turkey, prepare it for the spit, and roast it; when done, let it cool, raise the skin of the breast carefully, take off' all the meat from under it, and make a hole, which fill with a salpicon; cover this with a quenelle farce; give a good shape to the breast; strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over the whole, and place it in the oven a short time to heat and colour it. Serve with a reduced espagnole, as a remove. Turkey {Legs of) broiled.— Braise some undressed legs of turkeys until tender, then dip them in oil or melted butter, and broil them of a fine brown colour, serve with a remoulade sauce. Turkey Legs en Papillotes.* — Fry the legs lightly in a little butter until both sides are coloured, then lard them quite through ; make some farce with a slice of veal, breast of fowl, streaked bacon, and truffles, all minced small, and seasoned with snlt, pepper, and spices ; cut as many large rashers of bacon as you have turkey logs, spread some of the farce over every rasher, roll a leg up in each, tie them that the farce may not escape; bread them thoroughly, and wrap them in pieces of white paper; put them into a deep dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, take off the paper and thread and serve with any sauce you please. Turkey {Legs of) Provence Fashion.— Take the legs of a roasted turkey, put them into a stewpan with a glass of wine, the same quantity of stock, pepper, and salt; a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a clove of garlic ; simmer about an hour, to reduce the sauce ; make a ragout with a sweetbread, chopped mushrooms, parsley, shalots, and a bit of butter; soak this a little while, then add a little stock and cullis, and boil it some time : when ready, add a pounded anchovy, chopped capers, and a handful of olives stoned; warm to- gether without boiling; you must add pepper and salt, according to taste: the sauce should he sharp and relishing. Serve it upon the legs. Turkey (Legs of) en Surprise.—Bone a couple of undressed legs of turkeys quite to the end, and fill the inside with a Jarce made of livers, sweetbreads, mushrooms, parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt, the yolks of two eggs, grated bacon, and a little nut- meg ; sew them up, and braise them with slices of bacon and lemon. Serve with a Spanish sauce. Turkey IFirtgi in Chiploata. Bone and trim some turkey wings, and put them into a stewpan with a little butter; set them on a fierce fire, and in a few minutes add a dessert-spoonful of flour, two ladiesful of Stock, a bay leaf, and some whole pepper; blanch a little streaked bacon, cut it into small square pieces, put them to the ragout, with some champignons, parsley, and scal- lions; when about three parts done, skim it and throw in four-nnd-twenty small onions (all the same size) peeled, some blanched chestnuts, and a few sausages. When the ragout is sufficiently done, take out the parsley, scallions, and bay leaf; place the wings on a dish, and pour the gravy, thickened with the yolks of two eggs, over it, and serve. Turkey {P ings and Legs of) glazed.-— Cut off the wings and legs of a turkey (» a large one the wings alone will be suffi- cient for a dish) ; cut them pretty large from the breast, lard them all over, or lar only one to please different palates : braise them on a slow fire, with slices of veal an ham, a bundle of sweet herbs, some cloi es, whole pepper, salt, and stock; when done.TUR TUR 503 skim the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and finish it like a fricandeau. Turkey Wings (Haricot of).*—Take the wings of some young turkeys, trim and bone them ; make a light roux, in which fry the wings lightly; put them into a stewpan with some rich broth, with par- sley and green onions, skim it carefully, and when about three parts done, put in some turnips, cut into round pieces, an inch and half long, and browned; when done, drain the wings, place them on a dish en couronne, and the turnips in the centre. Turkey Wings au Soldi*—Toss up as many turkey wings as you wish in some butter ; then add to them eight ladiesful of veloute, a spoonful of stock, a bay leaf, whole pepper, one clove, a hunch of par- sley, and green onions ; let these boil, skimming carefully. When about three parts done, take oft' all the fat; then reduce the sauce fill very thick, take out the par- sley, onions, hay leaf, and clove; put in a liaison of three yolks of eggs, and an ounce ol butter; put the wings on a dish, pour the sauce over them; as soon as they are quite cold, cover each wing well with the sauce ; roll them in bread crumbs, then dip them in beaten eggs, cover them again with crumbs, and fry them nicely; drain and serve with fried parsley. Turkey Poults.—These should be drawn and trussed in the same manner as a turkey, except that the head should be left on, and turned under the pinions, with the bill pointing outwards. Turkey-poult en Mayonnaise.*—Take a cold roasted turkey-poult; cut it up, take off all the skin, and put the pieces into a pan, with a little oil, tarragon vine- gar, a little minced ravigote, salt and pepper. When they are well soaked, lay the pieces on a dish, the inferior ones first; pour a mayonnaise over them ; garnish with hard eoos> fillets of anchovies, gherkins, capers and a cordon of jelly round the edge. Turkey-poult Peau cle Goret * Pre- pare a fine turkey-poult in the usual way • rub it over, and baste it with oil, like a sucking pig, whilst roasting; make it a nice colour, sprinkle salt over, and serve it with a sauce d la Viable. TURNIPS (Boiled).'—Pare them thick; when boiled, squeeze them well, to tho- roughly drain them from the water : mash them smooth, heat them with a little cream, add a piece of butter, a little flour pepper, and salt. ’ Turnips (Puree a/).*-Take a dozen large turnips, slice and put them into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; set them on a fierce fire, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon; when of a nice clear colour, add a ladleful of veloutd, and another of veal blond; reduce it to the proper consistence ; skim it well, and rub it through a bolting-cloth. Turnip Sauce.—Pare four turnips, and let them simmer gently in a little water until done, and the liquor reduced, then rub them through a sieve. Add to them a little bdcliamelle, then cut some more tur- nips in shapes, as for haricot; simmer them also the same as the first, and then add them to the others. Turnip Soup.—Be careful in choosing your turnips, that they are not in the least spongy; take twelve, and cut them about an inch square; then cut them into the form of a barrel, and put them as you do them into a basin of water; while they are preparing, set a quarter of a pound of butter on the fire in a shallow stewpan, to clarify; when the turnips are ready, and drained from the water, put them in the butter, and fry them till they become of a fine brown colour; then put them on a sieve to drain; after this put them into a soup-pot, with a little sugar and salt, and fill it up with consommd; set it by the stove to boil gently, skim it well, and clarify it the same as other soups. It will be a great improvement to put in at first with the turnips, a few heads of celery, cut round and blanched. Bread must be put in this, as well as other clear soups made with vegetables. Turnips in various Ways.—Cut them in pieces, parboiled in salt and water, then stewed in butter, with parsley, scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; thicken the sauce, and serve it over them. Parboil, drain, and serve with a sauce tournde and mustard-sauce mixed. Turnip-tops.*—This vegetable is in sea- son during the early part of the spring ; they should be very young, and all the stalks, and withered leaves taken off. Tur- nip-tops require a great deal of water to boil them; put in some salt, and serve them like spinach, plain boiled. Turnip-tops (Pickled).— Choose them young, pick off all the stalks and withered loaves, put them into boiling water, set them on the fire, and when tender, press out all tho water and leave them to cool; then put them into a jar, with some salt and cover them with the best vinegar. TURTLE Fins.—Tho fins being stewed504 VAN TUR with the turtle as in the receipt for turtle soup, make a dish of them alone, by putting them into a stewpan with some good strong espugnole, and some Madeira or port wine, in which let them boil gently till the raw- ness is off the wine ; then squeeze in some lemon juice, lay them on a dish with a paste border round the edge ; garnish them with forcemeat, either in balls or lengths, and pour the sauce over the whole. They may be served with an Itulienne, tarragon, or any other sauce ; the inside flesh of the turtle, which has the appearance of chicken, may be larded and treated as a fricandean of veal. Turtle Soup.—Cut the head of the tur- tle off the day before you dress it, and place the body so as to drain it well from blood, next day cut it up, dividing the several parts, viz., the buck, belly, fins, and head from the intestines and lean meat, taking care to cut the gall clean out without breaking it; scald in boiling water the firstnamed parts so as to take oft' all the skin and shell, cut them in pieces small enough to stew, and throw them into cold water, boil the back and belly in water till you can extract the meat from the bones, not longer ; put the meaton a dish, then make a good stock with leg of veal, plenty of lean ham, the flesh of the inside of the turtle, draw it down to a colour, and fill it up with beef stock and the liquor and bones of the boiled turtle, season it with the stalks of the basil and marjoram, plenty of onions, bay leaves, bunch of parsley, cloves, mace, and whole pepper, skim it well, and let it boil gently for four hours, and then strain it to the pieces of fin, back, belly, and head of the turtle, which when they are done tender take out into dishes; take out the bones of the pieces of fins and cut the rest in neat square pieces with as little waste as pos- sible. Thicken the stock with roux and boil it to cleanse from grease and scum, adding mushroom trimmings, and then strain it through a tammv ; in the mean time boil your herbs that have been washed and picked in a bottlo or two of Madeira wine with a little sugar, and rub them through a tammy. The herbs are basil, mar- joram, thyme, parsley; the two lormer of which must not be spared, for on them much depends the flavour ot the soup. Now add altogether soup, herbs, meat, and some forcemeat and egg balls, boil lor a short time and put it away in clean pans till the following day, as the rawness goes oft', and you improve the flavour by so doing ; boil it again the next day, and a little before serving season it with lemon juice, Cayenne, salt, and a bottle of Ma- deira. N.B. The fat should be taken great care of, separated on cutting up the turtle ; blanched, cut in neat pieces and stewed tender in a little soup separate, and then divided at last as the tureens require. Turtle (Mock).—Well wash a calf s head that has the scalp on, having split it in two, and taken the brains out; or if you prefer it take only the scalp, boil it till half done, and then cut it into neat square pieces; put on some basil, mar- joram, parsley, thyme, onions, mushroom trimmings, lean ham, and bay leaves, with a few cloves, whole pepper, and mace, in a stewpan, with a piece of butter to fry a little ; then add stock sufficient for your soup, and thicken it with roux, boil and skim it for two hours, and strain through a tammy to the meat prepared, add force- meat and egg balls—add a pint of sherry or Madeira, and season at last with lemon juice, Cayenne, and salt. It should boil about two hours and be well skimmed, and therefore should not be made too thick at first. U. UDDER—(See Tongues). UMBLES—(See Deer). V. VANILLA Cream.*—Take two drachms of vanilla, a quart of milk, the yolks ot three eggs, five ounces of sugar, and a pint of cream ; heatup the eggs well with the milk, and then add the other ingredients; set the whole on a moderate fire, and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, till the cream will adhere to it; then strain, and serve it cold. Vanilla Cream ( Renverste).*—Take as much cream as will fill the mould you in- tend to use, and boil it up a few times, with the proportionate quantities ot vanilla and sugar; then let it cool, and it the mould will contain a quart, mix tv elve volks and three whole eggs with the cream, and run it five times through a bolting- cloth. Butter the mould, pour the cream into it, and place it in the bain-marie, but not too hot; when the cream is set, which you may know by touching it gently nit 1 your finger, turn it on a dish; take the505 VEA VAN remainder of the cream, stir it over the lire like white sauce, and as soon as it sticks to the spoon (which must be of wood), take it off, stir it an instant, and then pour it over the other cream, and serve cold. V anilla Cream ( Whipped').*—Put a pinch of gum dragon into a pint of cream, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, powder sugar to the taste, and a little milk, in which some vanilla has been boil- ed, and the milk strained; whip these in- gredients with a whisk, until the whole is sufficiently frothed; then lay it carefully on a dish, in a pyramidal form, and serve. \ anilla Cream. Ice*—Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a preserv- ing-pan, pour on them the yolks of eight, and a pound of sifted sugar, whip the whole well with a whisk, and pour in by degrees two quarts of boiling cream; con- tinue to whip it for some little time, and then put it on the fire, with half an ounce of vanilla bruised, still whipping ; when it has boiled up three or four times, strain it, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Vanilla (Creme of) Liqueur*—Dis- solve over the fire two pounds ten ounces of broken sugar in three pints of purified river water; when it has boiled up once, pour it into a jar, on three drachms of vanilla cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. When quite cold, add three pints of good brandy, cover the vessel, and when it has infused six days, colour it with a little prepared cochineal; filter, and bottle the liqueur. Cork the bottles tight, and seal the corks. Vanilla Sticks.*—Take some march- pane paste, a quarter of a pound of choco- late, and the same of vanilla; mix these well into the paste, and then form it into sticks, like the vanilla in its original form • lay them on a sheet of paper, and bake in a slow oven. VEAL.—The flesh of the bull calf is firmer, and generally more esteemed than that of the cow calf, but the flesh of the latter is the whitest, and the fillet is often preferred on account of the udder. When the head is fresh, the eves will ap- pear full; if the shoulder vein" is of a clear red, it is good ; when there is any green or yellow spots, it is stale ; the breast and neck, when good, should look white and clear; the loin is very apt to taint under the kidney, it will be soft and slimy when sta e. Veal should never be kept lomr undressed, as it by no means improves The French divide the leg into three parts, besides the middle bone; these are called the noix, som-noix, and contre- noix. The first is the largest, and has the udder to it; the second is the flat white part under the noix, and the third is the side part. Veal (Blanquette of).*—Take a cold roasted shoulder of veal, raise the skin carefully, the fillet or loin will do the same; and cut all the finest parts into neat collops ; make a ragout with some champignons, cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of butter, a pinch of flour, salt, and pepper; when this ragout is reduced properly, put in the veal, add a liaison of yolks of eggs, and some cream ; stir it over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; squeeze in a little lemon juice, and serve. Veal (Boiled).—Veal should be well boiled, in a good deal of water; if boiled in a cloth, it will be whiter; serve it with tongue, bacon, or pickled pork, greens of any sort, brocoli, and carrots, or onion sauce, white sauce, oyster sauce, parsley and butter, or white celery sauce. Veal (Broiled) Venetian Fashion.—Cut some slices of veal tolerably thick and large, and let them marinate for about an hour in a little oil, chopped parsley, mush- rooms, shalots, bay leaf, thyme, basil, pepper, and salt; let as much of the mari- nade adhere to them as you possibly can, and strew over them bread crumbs; broil them slowly, baste them with what remains of the marinade, and serve with a squeeze of lemon, or a Seville orange over them. Veal Broth.—Stew a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, with two ounces of rice or vermicelli, a little salt, and a blade of mace. When thoroughly boiled and the liquor reduced to half, it is'fit for use : you may add celery and parsley sometimes. Veal Cake.*—Take some nice thin slices of veal, and season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg grated; have ready some hard-boiled eggs sliced, and put a layer of these at the bottom of a basin or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slices of ham; over this strew marjoram, thyme, parsley, shred fine, bread crumbs, and lemon peel chopped small; then a layer of eggs, veal, ham, &c., and so continue till the" pan is' filled; pour some good gravy over the whole, cover the pan with coarse brown paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake in a slow oven ; an hour will be sufficient to bake it; when cold, turu it out upon aVEA 506 VEA dish, and serve ; garnish with parsley and aspio jelly. Veal Cakes*—Take three quarters of a pound of lean veal, a quarter of a pound of beef suet, half the rind of a lemon, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little shalot; mixthese together, beat them well in a marble mortar, make them into small cakes, fry them, and send them up in a good gravy, either white or brown. Veal C-annellonsCut your veal into very thin slices, all the same size, at least three inches square; lay on each slice some godiveau, roll it up, so that it may not be more than an inch thick ; fasten all the edges with white of egg, so that they may look like pieces of cane; stew them in a covered pan, with veal gravy and con- somme ; when done, drain them, strain the sauce, take off all the fat, and let it cool, to glaze the cannellons. Veal Collops.*—Cut some cold veal into thin slices, the size and thickness of a half- crown, dip them into the yolk of an egg well beaten, cover them with bread crumbs, sweet herbs, lemon peel shred fine, and grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter into a pan, make it quite hot, fry the veal in it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the side of the fire ; make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon juice, pour it over the veal, and garnish with lemon. Veal Collops.*—Cut some cold roast veal into dice, and give them a toss up over the fire in a little butter, with a pinch of flour; then add a little stock, shred par- sley,and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; keep it on the fire till the sauce adheres to the mince ; then put the whole on a dish. Make a paste as for apple pie ; roll out this very thin, and lay the cold mince in little heaps on half of it; turn the other half over it, cut it round these little heaps, pinch the edges of all to keep in the meat, and fry your collops. Veal Florentine.—Take two vcnlkidneys, and mince them with their fat, very small, and mix it with a few currants, the yolks of four or five eggs boiled hard and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, some bread crumbs, candied lemon peel cut small, and season with nutmeg, cloves, mace, a little mountain wine, and some orange-flower water; line the bottom of a dish with a nice puff paste, put in the above, cover it with puff paste, and set it to bako in a slow oven. Veal Fricandeau.—This should be cut from the leg of veal, of that part where the lean is in a compact lump, and when cut out and trimmed is undivided by skin or sinews. You may lard it or not; then trim the bottom of the stewpan with a carrot, turnip, onions, and celery sliced, two bay leaves, whole pepper, allspice, cloves, and mace, a bunch of herbs, and a clove of garlic ; cover all this with thin slices of fat bacon, place your fricandeau on that, add some pot-top, and a pint of water, cover the whole with paper, and keep the cover close ; let it stew gently lor three hours ; take the paper off, and put live charcoal on the lid, so as to brisk up the larding and make it a nice colour ; when enough take it out and glaze it nicely; and serve with either tomata sauce, sorrel, endive, or spinach, or what you like. Veal Fritters.*—Cut the remains of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, round pieces; dip these into a good batter, and fry them in the usual way, in oil. V hen done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve them. Veal (Grenade of).*—Take a ttoix of veal, cut it into four pieces, all of the same size, and lard them ; take also a very fine fowl, season them moderately, and partly dress them ; butter the interior of a plain deep mould, in the centre of which put a large ball offarce, place the four pieces at the four corners, between them a piece ot the fowl (using only the white parts) ; fill up the intermediate spaces withcrayiish.and all the interstices 'with farce ; pour in some jelly to fix the different articles together. Be careful to place the backs of the cray- fish and the larded parts of the veal against the sides of the mould, and put some truffles into the jelly before it is poured in. Set the mould "in a cool place, and when the jelly is congealed, dip it an instant into boiling water, and then turn it out. Veal Ham.—Take two ounces of salt- petre, one pound of bay, and one pound of common, salt, and one ounce ot juniper berries, bruised ; rub some of this well into a leg of veal cut ham fashion ; lay the skinny side downwards at first, but let it be well rubbed and turned every day for a fortuight; then hang it in wood smoke for a fortnight. It may be boiled or parboiled, and then roasted. Veal (Haricot o/).—Take a neck or breast of veal (if the neck, cut the bones short), and half roast it; then put it into a stewpan with just sufficient brown grai l to cover it, and when nearly done, niVEA VEA 507 ready a pint of green peas boiled, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two let- tuces cut into quarters, and stewed in brown gravy, with some forcemeat balls ready fried ; put all these to the veal, and let them just simmer; lay the veal in a dish, pour the sauce and peas over it, and serve the lettuces and forcemeat balls all round. Veal (Cold) hashed.—Cut it in slices, flour it, put it into a saucepan with a little good gravy, some grated lemon peel, pepper, salt, and ketchup. Make it hot, then add a little lemon juice ; serve fried sippets round the dish. Veal (Minced).—Cut the veal into very small pieces, but do not chop it; take a little white gravy, a little cream or milk, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some grated lemon peel; let these boil till of the consistence of a fine thick cream ; with a little salt, and white pepper ; put it into the saucepan to the other ingredients, and make it quite hot, but be careful that it does not boil after the veal has been put in, or it will be bard; before being taken up, squeeze in some juice of lemon ; serve it on a dish over sippets. Veal (Minced) with Podched Eggs.— Mince part of a roasted fillet of veal ex- tremely fine, put it into a stewpan, and pour over it a sufficient quantity of good hot hcchamelle saucfe to make it of a toler- able thickness ; then have a stewpan full of water, with a little vinegar in it, and salt, and as soon as it boils, break in two eggs, and keep it boiling quick (but not so as to boil over) ; when they are done, take them out with a cullender spoon, and put them into another stewpan of clear warm water; break two more into the vinegar and water, and do the same as the two first, and so on till six are done; when you want to serve, squeeze a little lemon juice in the mince, pour it on a hot dish; take the eggs out of the water neatly, trim them, and lay them on the veal, and serve. VI?Al (Minced) in a Timbale.—Make some mince, the same as minced veal, with poached eggs, and keep it hot by the fire, fry some good plain pancakes, made with- out sugar or lemon peel ; then lay a pan- cake at the bottom, and all round a well- buttered oval mould, then lay the rest open, and spread each with the mince; roll them up neatly, and lay them close in the mould; cover them up with a pan- cake; about half an hour before dinner is to be served, put it into a moderate oven ; and when wanted, turn them out in a dish, and pour a little strong gravy in the dish under them. Veal a la Moclle.*—Take some very thin cutlets, beat them well with a rolling- pin; pound a piece of crumb of bread, about the size of an egg, some bacon, beef marrow, shred parsley, with pepper and salt, in a mortar; spread a little of this farce over a slice of veal, and cover it with another; fix the edges together with beaten egg; when all are done, dip them in egg, bread, and broil them. Veal Olives.—Take some slices from a fillet of veal, then cut them round of about the size of the palm of your hand, make a forcemeat with the remains of roasted chickens, suet, herbs, eggs, and spices; lay the slices alternately with a little of this forcemeat and fat livers sliced, truffles, or mushrooms ; continue these to a mode- rate height, the last layer being veal; then roll them in a caul, and tie or sew them up ; put them into a stewpan, with slices of ham and veal, parsley, shalots, two cloves, one of garlic, pepper, and salt, a little stock, and one glass of white wine; let it stew slowly; when done, take off the caul, wipe off the fat, skim, and strain the sauce; add a little cullis, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, and serve over the olives. Veal Olives.—Cut some thin slices from the fillet (if it is large, one slice will be sufficient for three olives) ; rub them over with yolk of eggs, strew on them some bread crumbs, mixed with parsley chop- ped, lemon peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; on every piece lay a thin slice of bacon, it must not be too fat; roll them up tight, fasten them -with small skewers, rub the outside with egg, roll them in the bread crumbs, &c., and lay them in the Dutch oven, and let them brown, without burning; they will take a long while doing; some prefer frying them. Serve the following sauce over them: Thicken a pint of good gravy with rout, add ketch- up, Cayenne, and pickled mushrooms, and boil this for a few minutes. Forcemeat balls may be added. Veal Olives a la blade.—Take two pounds of veal, boat it very fine, as for forcemeat, and mix it with the yolks of two eggs, two anchovies, half a pound of marrow, a few mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, half a pint of o_vsters, some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, spinach, lemon peel, salt., pepper, nutmeg, and mace, finely beaten ; let the whole bo thoroughly well508 VEA VEA mixed: take a veal caul, have a layer of bacon, and a layer of the ingredients, roll it in the veal caul, and either roast or bake it; when done, cut it into slices, lay them in a dish, and serve a good gravy over them. Veal Olive Pie. — Line your pie-dish with a good crust, put in the olives (see receipt for veal olives), fill up the dish with stock, and put in the oven to bake ; when done, pour in some gravy, thickened with a little ci-eam and flour boiled toge- ther, and serve. Veal Patties.—Mince some veal that is underdone with a- little parsley, lemon peel, a little grated nutmeg, aud a little salt; add bdchamelle sauce, just sufficient to moisten the meat; a little scraped ham is a great improvement: the above should not be wanned until the patties are baked, then fill them. Veal Pie,—Take a neck, or nut, cut out of the fillet, cut it into collops, stir it over a quick fire with a bit of butter till it becomes brown ; then set it to stew with a little pepper, and in just sufficient water to cover it, until done enough ; then take it off the fire and let it cool. Line a dish with puff paste, and lay in the veal, with thin slices of ham between ; add the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, a little pepper and salt, and half of the gravy the veal has been stewed in ; put on the lid, trim it neatly, form a star of leaves upon the top, egg, and bake it, then pour in the re- mainder of the gravy. Veal Pie.—Cut steaks from a loin of veal, season them with pepper, salt, nut- meg, a few pounded cloves, slice two sweetbreads, season them in the same manner ; line a dish with puff paste, put in the veal and sweetbreads; add the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and oysters at the top; fill up the dish with stock, put on the cover, and bake ; when done, pour in some good gravy. Veal (Potted).—Take a pound of the lean of white veal, putit into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, salt, sifted mace, a bay leaf, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, and mushroom powder, a small quantity of each; a little parsley, thyme, savory, and a couple of shalots chopped fine; stew thern ten minutes, then pound them ; add a pound of the mellow part of a boiled pickled tongue, beaten to a paste, half a pound of cold fresh butter, mix all well together with two eggs beaten; then press the mixture down tight into small pots, cover them with paper, and put them into a moderate oven; twenty minutes will be sufficient for them to bake ; when cold, pour over them clarified butter. Veal (Potted).—Take part of a knuckle or fillet of veal that has been stewed ; beat it to a paste with butter, salt, white pep- per, and mace pounded; pot it, and pour clarified butter over. Veal Quenelles.*—They are made the same as all others. Veal Ragout*—Take a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, put it in a stewpan over the fire to brown, then pour in as much stock as will cover it; add an onion stuck with cloves, some salt, black pepper whole, and a bundle of sweet herbs, and let it stew till done : then thicken some gravy, add a little ketchup, and serve over the veal. This may be served also with stewed mushrooms, stewed peas, or a harricot sauce. Veal Ragout it la Bourgeoise* — Dis- solve some butter in a stewpan, brown in it two spoonsful of flour, then put in your veal, and keep stirring it till the meat is firm ; pour in some hot water or broth, and continue to stir until it boils, then put in a little thyme, a couple of bay leaves, pepper, and salt, let it boil slowly; in an hour’s time add peas, onions, champig- nons, carrots, or morels, according to your taste. If the ragmit is thin, make a liaison with the yolks of four eggs, and serve. Veal (Rolled).—Bone the thin end of a breast of veal, strew over it a good deal of parsley, pepper, and salt, to make it sa- voury, a little nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and some sweet herbs and farce; roll it tight, sew it up, put it into a small stew- pan, with the bones, and just sufficient water to cover it, some whole pepper, a bit of lemon peel, an onion, and a little salt, and let it boil until tender; in cold weather it will keep good for a week. It may be served cold, but is best cut in slices, dipped in egg, then in bread crumbs, and fried ; thicken some of the liquor with a little mux; add pickled mushrooms, a little cream, ketchup, a few morels, pepper, and salt; pour the sauce in a dish, then lay in the veal. Veal Sausages.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar, and season well with pepper and salt; when wanted for use, roll and fry it and serve either with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or white collops. Veal Scmelles.*—Cut part of a fillet otVEA VEA 509 veal into slices an inch thick, season them with salt and pepper, and give them a few turns in a little butter, with a bay leaf. Lay at the bottom of a deep saucepan a very thin slice of bacon, and on it one of the slices of veal, and continue to lay them in alternately, until the whole are used, then add a glass of water and some bay leaves ; close the saucepan very tight, first putting a sheet of paper over the meat; stew it on hot ashes for four or five hours ; take care to keep the fire up to the same point all the time. Serve with a piquant sauce. Veal Stock.—Cut a leg of veal and some lean ham into pieces, put them into a stewpan, with a little water, some carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery; stew them down till nearly done, hut do not let it colour; then add a sufficient quan- tity of beef stock to cover the ingredients, and let it boil for three hours, skim off all the fat and strain it; a little game stewed down with the above will greatly improve the flavour; be particularly careful that it does not burn. Veal a la Villageoise.—Season some large slices of veal with pepper, salt, fine spices, parsley, and shalots; cut likewise some thin slices of ham, dip them in e°-°-, and lay them on the slices of veal, and wrap the ham up in the veal, and let them boil with a glass of white wine, and the same quantity of stock ; when done, skim, and strain the sauce, and serve it in the dish with the veal, without adding anv thing else. • Veal (Breast of) collared.—Bone a breast of veal, and beat it; rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and strew over a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a large handful of parsley chopped small, a few sprigs of sweet marjoram, a little lemon peel shred fine, and an anchovy pounded, and mixed with a few bread crumbs. Roll it up tight, bind it with a tape, and wrap it in a cloth ; then let it boil two hours and a half in salt and water, then take it out, and hang it up by one end to drain, then put it into the following pickle : A pint of salt and water, and haff a pint of vinegar. Veal (Breast of) collared.—Bone a breast of veal, and with a feather or brush do it all over with the yolk of egg well beaten; take some crumbs of bread, a little grated nutmeg, beaten mace, pepper, salt, a few sweet herbs, and a little lemon peel cut small; strew these all over the veal; run a thick skewer into it to keep it together: roll it up tight, and bind it very close with tape; wrap it in a veal caul, and roast it; before being taken up, take ofl the caul, sprinkle the meat with salt, and baste it with butter; it should be roasted before a brisk fire, and done of a nice brown ; when it is taken up, cut it in three or four slices, lay it in a dish ; have ready a boiled sweetbread, cut it in slices, and lay round the dish (some prefer it larded), and serve a good white sauce over th e veal. Veal (Breast of) glacte.*— Cut the breast as square as possible, bone it to within two inches of the gristles, and tie down the meat, so that the joint may look very plump, and cut the soft bones beyond the gristles. Put the breast into a large saucepan with three or four carrots, as many onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, and a ladleful of stock; cover the veal with rashers of bacon, and a buttered paper; set it on a large fire to make it boil, and then lessen it, put some fire on the sauce- pan-lid, and so leave it; when about three parts done, take out the carrots, &c., and let the liquor fall to a glaze; and when quite done, turn the meat over, that the upper part may take the glaze also, then dish the joint; put two ladiesful of espa*- nole, and a spoonful of stock into the sauce- pan ; detach the glaze from it over the lire and pour the sauce over the veal. Two' hours and a half are required to dress a breast of veal in this manner. \ eal (Breast of) marinated.—Take a breast of veal, and cut it into pieces, and let it boil in some stock till three parts done; then take it out, and marinate it about an hour, with two spoonsful of vine- gar, a little of the stock it was boiled in some pepper and salt, two cloves of o-arlic’ four of spices, sliced onions, thyme, and bay leaf; drain it, and fry it of a good co- lour with parsley. Veal (Breast of) roasted.—Breast of veal should be roasted with the caul on till almost done enough, then take it off; flour and baste it. \ eal(Breast of) stewed.—Put a breast of veal into a saucepan, with a little stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, two or three onions, some pepper, and salt, and let it stew gently until quite tender; when done, lay the meat in a dish, skim, and strain the liquor, and serve over the meat; garnish with forcemeat balls. (Veal Breast of) stufedTake three quarters of a pound of fillet of veal, and a pound of udder; mince, and mix with them510 VEA VEA shred p arsley, shalots, pepper, salt, nut- meg, and tlie yolks of three eggs. Cut off the ends of the rib-bones of a breast of veal, make an incision between the top of the meat and the ribs, which fill with as much of the farce as it will hold, then sew it up, that none of the farce may escape; lay the veal in a braising-pan between rashers of bacon ; add some potle, and stock, if neces- sary, and braise it for three hours. When done, let it drain, untie and glaze it. Put some reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze, and an ounce of butter, into the liquor; let the latter dissolve, stir it well, and pour jt over the breast of veal. Veal (Breast of) enSurtout.*—Take a fine breast of veal, hone it, take off all the skin, and lay it on a dish; make a fine farce, which spread all over the meat to the thickness nf an inch ; then roll it up with two or three small pigeons, some morels, veal sweetbreads, artichoke bottoms, &c.; cover the breast with fillets of fowl or game, and the javce ; envelop the whole in a thick caul, wash it over with yolk of egg, cover it completely with bread crumbs, and bake it of a nice colour. Serve it with yeal gravy. This joint ought to be partly dressed in good stock before it is put en sari put. Veal Chops a la Belle Cue*—Lard half a dozen handsomely-cut chops with udder, truffles, and tongue a Vecarlate, and then lay them in a stewpan on slices of bacon ; cover them with the same ; season them with pepper and salt, and add two carrots, two onions (one watli two cloves in it), and a bouquet; pour in a glass of Madeira wine, and a ladleful of consonmd ; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen after a short time, and leave the chops on for an hour. When done, press out all the moisture ; as soon as they are cold, trim, glnzo, and lay the chops on a dish, garnished with whites of eggs, truffles, and gherkins; pour into the middle of them a green mag- nonnaise, and put round the edge of the dish a border of jelly. Veal Chops (Breaded).*—Take six or seven handsomely-cut chops, season them well with salt and pepper, and put them into melted butter ; when sufficiently soak- ed, put them into beaten eggs, take them out, and roll each separately in bread crumbs; make the chops as round us you can with your knife, and lay them on a dish; when are breaded, broil them slowly over a moderate fire, that the bread may not be too highly coloured. Serve with clear gravy. Veal Chops d la Dreux.—Lard some well-cut chops with bacon and ham, sea- son with pepper, salt, and spices, and brown them in some batter, then trim them nicely. Put into a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices of veal, the same of carrots, trvo cloves, a bay leaf, parsley, and scallions ; lay the chops in, cover them with bacon and a buttered paper ; moisten with a ladleful of consomme, and stew them for an hour and a half, then drain, glaze, and serve them with any sauce you please. Veal Chops Fondantes.*—Separate the chops from the bones, take out all the si- .news, and mince the meat very small, and also some streaked bacon; mix them toge- ther, and season the whole with pepper, salt, and spices; spread this/arce on pieces of caul, making each the shape of a chop ; bury a hone in every one, so that the end only will be seen; cover these writh bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, and then fry them in lard; let the pan be very hot. Serve them dry, or not, as you please. Veal Chops en Lorgnette.*—Beat the chops rather flat, and lard them with ba- con, seasoned with pepper, salt, and spices; brown them in some butter,and trim them nicely. Cut seven pieces of tongue, a Vecarlate, of the size of a halfcrown, and nearly half an inch thick ; cut some large onions into round slices the same thickness, but rather larger; take as much from the centre of the latter ns the tongue wall fill up ; make as many of these as you have chops, upon which place them; then stew the chops as for la Dreux. M hen done, glaze the chops and the tongue, but not the onion, and dish them ; reduce the sauce with a little espagnole, and pour it into tire dish with them. Veal Chops en Papillotes*—Cut and trim your chops as usual; and put them into a pan, with some butter, salt, and pepper ; set them on the fire, and let them remain till nearly done; then place them on a dish, and pour the butter, with some sweet herbs, over them. 1 ake as many pieces of paper as you have chops (each sufficiently large to contain a chop), oil them well, lay on every one a thin slice of bacon, and (when cold) a chop with the herbs on both sides, then another thin slice of bacon; fold these up in the paper as close as possible ; make die ends quite se- cure to prevent even the butter from escaping, and broil them over a slow fire, that they may be thoroughly done, andVEA VEA 511 the paper not burnt. Serve with a clear gravy. Veal Chops Sautees.*—Take seven hand- some veal chops, trim, and lay them in a pan, previously sprinkled with pepper and salt; strew over the chops, also, pepper, salt, parsley, and shalots, shred very small; pour melted butter over them, and set the pan on a fierce fire ; turn the chops when one side is done ; he careful not to make them too deep a colour ; if you find they brown too quickly, lessen your fire. When done, arrange them neatly on a dish ; put four ladiesful of espagnole, and a bit of glaze, into a pan, stir it round, and pour the whole over the chops, and serve. Veal Chaps a la St. Carat.*-—Cut some tongue, a Vicariate, into moderate- sized lardons; grate a little bacon, and warm it in a stewpan; add the lardons, with pepper and nutmeg; toss them up in this, and lard some veal chops quite through with them when cold. Brown the chops in a little butter, and then trim them. Put into a stewpan a few rashers of bacon, cuttings of the tongue, slices of ham, and a little basil; lay in the chops, coverthem with bacon, carrots, or onions sliced, and two glasses of consomme, or stock ; cover the saucepan; put fire on the lid, and let them stew for two hours. When done, drain and glaze them; strain the sauce, and with four ladiesful of it mix three of espagnole, reduce, and pour it into the dish, with the chops. Veal (Chump of) a la Bauhe.—Cut off 1,10 chump end of the loin ; take out the edge bone, and put in its place some good oicemeat; tie it up tight, and lay it in a stewpan with the bone that has been taken out, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and a pint of good veal stock ; cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, and let it simmer fora couple ot hours; then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve it with mushroom or sorrel sauce in the dish, or any other sauce you think better. Veal Cutlets (Marinated).—Veal cutlets marinated, are done the same as in all former directions for marinade; or you may do them the same as a breast of veal marinated, and serve with whatever sauce you approve of. Veal Cutlets a la Provenfule,*—Eard some well-shaped cutlets with anchovies and gherkins, and soak them for half an hour in some oil, with pepper and salt; tie each cutlet in a rasher of bacon, and stew them in some butter, with parsley, salt, pepper, and two glasses of stock. When done, untie, but do not take oft' the bacon. Serve with their own sauce re- duced. Veal Cutlets in Ragout.— Cut some large cutlets from the fillet, beat them flat, and lard them ; strew them over with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, and shred parsley; then make a ragout of veal sweetbreads and mushrooms; fry the cutlets of a nice brown in melted butter • then^ lay them in a dish, and serve the ragout very hot over them. Veal Cutlets en Redingotes .*—Prepare your cutlets in the same manner as veal chops en papillotes; hut instead of wrap- ping them in paper, envelop them with their seasoning in pieces of light paste, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, pour veal gravy over, and serve the cutlets hot. Veal Cutlets with Sour Sauce.—Let the cutlets be cut moderately thick ; put them into a saucepan, with just sufficient water to cover them; when half done, take them out, and let them drain and cool; make a thin hatter with eggs and a little flour; set a frying-pan on the fire, with some lard ; as soon as it is hot, dip the cutlets in the batter, and fry them of a nice brown; serve with sauce made of verjuice, salt, and pepper. Veal Cutlets (Stewed).—Cut part of the neck into cutlets ; shorten them, and frv them of a nice brown colour; then stew them in some good gravy, thickened with a little flour, until tender ; then add some ketchup, Cayenne, salt, a few truffles, and morels, and some pickled mushrooms, rorcemeat balls are an improvement. Veal Cutlets and Sweet Iierhs.—Chop all sorts ot sweet herbs, mushrooms, a little winter savory, shalots, pepper, and salt, a spoonful of oil or butter; dip the cutlets in this, and reduce the sauce to make it stick; then do them over with egg and bread crumbs, and set them in the oven to bake; add a glass of white wine, and a little cullis to the sauce, skim it well, and when the cutlets are done, lny them on a dish, and servo them to table, with the sauce poured over. Veal (Fillet of) in a Ragout. — Take out the bone from a nice large white fillet ot vonl, and put into its place plenty of good forcemeat; tie it up well; put it on the spit, fasten buttered paper over, midVEA 512 VEA roast it; have a ragout the same as for loin of veal with ragout; cut the arti- chokes into any form you may think pro- per; place the veal in the centre of the dish, the artichokes round ; serve the ra- gout round, but not over the veal. Veal (Fillet of) roasted.—Stuff it with the same ingredients as directed for the shoulder, and roast it according to the same directions (see Shoulder of Veal roasted). The fat should he papered. Veal (Fillet of) steued.—Stuff it; half hake it, with a little stock in the disli ; then stew it with the stock it was baked in, with some good gravy, and a little Madeira; when done enough, thicken the sauce with flour; add ketchup, Cayenne, a little salt, and lemon juice ; give it a boil and serve it over the meat. Veai. Gristles or Tendrons an Blanch- Cut the gristles of any form you choose; scald, and then throw them into cold water : when quite cold, trim, and put them into a steivpan, with a quarter of a pound of melted butter ; add in a minute or two a table-spoonful of flour, shake the pan about, that the latter may mix with the butter ; in a little while add stock, champignons, a bouquet garni, and some pepper; let these stew for four hours, then put in some small onions ; when the latter, are done, make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, and serve the gristles, covered with the onions and champignons. Veal Gristles or Tendrons en Chartreuse.* —Cut and dress the gristles as directed. (See Poeles.) Take thirty carrots, and thirty turnips, cut them into round pieces, all of the same length and size (that of a farthing), and boil them separately in a little consomme; also boil forty small onions (as near of a size as possible), and twenty lettuces; scald some French beans, and young peas, taking care they do not lose their green colour; slice half the number of pieces of the roots after they are boiled. Having thus prepared all the ingredients, take a plain round mould, butter it well, and cover the bottom as fol- lows : First, a circle of the sliced carrots, then one of sliced turnips, within that, one of the onions, the French beans, and the young peas; place them as close to- gether as possible. On these arrange the other pieces of carrots and turnips, put, them regularly that they may look hand- some ; cut the lettuces into halves, and lay them over the roots; these, if laid close, will form a solid foundation for the rest;'place the gristles over them, also closely, and fill up all spaces with the remaining vegetables. Cover the mould tight, and put it into the bain-marie for an hour. In the mean while, take the liquor in which each article was dressed, clarify, strain, and reduce it; then add a spoonful of reduced espagnole, and a bit of glaze; stir these well in, and when the chartreuse is ready, turn it out, and pour this sauce over it. Veal Gristles or Tendrons en Marinade.* —Cut the gristles into square pieces, and put them into a stewpan on slices of ba- con ; cover them also with bacon, and pour in a marinade; stew them for two hours and a half; then drain, dip them in batter, and fry them, but not in a hot pan. Serve with parsley fried crisp. Veal Gristles or Tendrons Poeles.* — Take the gristles from two breasts of veal, cut them very close to the rib-bones; they majr either be cut in small square pieces, or left whole at pleasure, only taking care that they are all the same size ; soak and blanch them well, then put them into a stewpan between slices of bacon ; pour a poele over, and stew them for four hours, when, if they are tender enough for a larding-pin to penetrate them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, putting into the centre whatever you may think pro- per : glaze them. Veal Gristles au Soleil.*—Prepare and dress the gristles as au blanc, and when thickened, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. When quite cold, cover them with bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them, but not in a very hot pan. Serve them on fried parsley. Veal Gristles (Tureen of).*—Prepare and stew the gristles au blanc, except that they must be moistened with consomme instead of stock, they will require three hours’ stewing. Take some small veal kernels, sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, and kidneys, and twelve fowl quenelles, all dressed separately ; drain, and put them into the tureen, lay in the gristles, and champignons; thicken the sauce (which ought to be rather thin than otherwise) with the yolks of five eggs, and strain it into the tureen. Veal Gristles (Tureen of).—Wash in two or three waters a good quantify of veal gristles, taken from the breast or any other part; then lay them on a sieve to drain ; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, and set it over a slow fire, and as soon as it boils, add more butter; when that ias513 VEA VEA done hissing’, put in the gristles, and an onion shred fine, some pepper, salt, sweet herbs shred tine, and some flour; let these fry a little, then pour in some, gravy ; add three cabbages cut in pieces, and let the whole he thoroughly stewed ; when done, skim off the fat, pour in some ham cullis, and serve. Veal Kidney. —Take a veal kidney, chop it up with some of the fat, likewise a little leek, or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Veal Kidneys.—Mix some sliced onions and minced kidney well together; then fry it in butter, and add a little stock, a little white wine, about one spoonful, pepper, and salt, and serve with a liaison of yolks of three eggs, and cream. If you wish to serve it brown, instead of eggs and cream make use of cullis sauce. They may be broiled, and served with a relishing sauce. They may also be made into omelets, and served on toasted bread. They are likewise very good mixed in forcemeats. Veal Kidneys, Sautes.*—Mince a kidney small, and put it into a pan with a little butter, champignons (previously dressed), parsley, shalots, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; set the pan on the fire; a few minutes are quite sufficient to do the mince; when done, take it out. Put a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and a little reduced espagnole into the pan; stir it round, add a little more butter, pour it over the kid- ney, squeeze in some lemon juice, and serve. . ^ eal Kidney Toasts.-—Mince a roasted kidney, mince also half its fat; season it well with pepper and salt, chopped sha- lots, parsley, and a small quantity of green sweet basil ; mix all together with the yolks of eggs, and lay it upon slices of Dread of an equal thickness, or cut into any shape you please, and smoothed over with a knife dipped in egg; strew over the mince bread crumbs, put them into a baking-dish upon thin slices of bacon, and put them into the oven ; when sufficiently baked, drain off the fat, wipe the bread with a linen cloth ; serve with a little gravy under them. Veal (Knuckle of) bailed.—Break the bones that it may require less room ; wash it well; put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few peppercorns ; cover it with water, and let it simmer till done. You may, if you think proper, boil a little macaroni or rice with it, to give it a slight degree of thick- ness. Before it is served, you may add half a pmt °f milk and cream, and serve this either over the meat, or separately Veal (Knuckle of) fried and stewed.— fry the knuckle with onions cut in slices and butter, to a nice brown colour; and aye in readiness some peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that have stewed about an hour in a small quantity of water; add these to the veal, and let all stew together till the meat is tender Add pepper, salt, and a very little mint shred hne, and serve the whole together. Veal (Leg oj) en Surprise.—Lard the veal with slips of bacon, and a little lemon peel cut very thin; make stuffing the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it half a pint of oysters, chopped small, and stuff your veal with this, and put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it • let it stew very gently till quite tender; Bien ,take u uP i fkim off the flit from the iquor, and add some lemon juice, some mushroom ketchup, the crumb of a roll grated fine half a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit of butter, rolled in flour let this sauce thicken over the fire and’ serve it over the veal; garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in batter, and fried and thin slices of toasted bacon. ’ Veal (Loin of ) d la Bechamelle.—Chon ut the inner bone from a nice white loin on tlm dni "'I"1 “ t£at ^ wiU % smooth end and \ °P, °ft Part of th° chump nd and put it down to roast; let it be well done; have a bechamelle sauce pre! paied, and a few minutes before the teal is to be served, take it up, and cut a d square hole close to where the chump was cut oft; mince the lean you have cut extremely fine, put it into the hot becha r“e nnd pour it again into he' hole; serve it to table with a well-b gra^!°aSt Under ‘k® kidney, and plenty of Veal (Loin of) with a liairuut — Pre onlyttake°1natlleTe 'vi,!l?Mchamelle, only take particular care that it is not roasted of too high a colour; prepare a cocks’ comi' 0 r’Uh trufflos- mushrooms, cocks combs, livers, Ac. &c., artichol n bottoms, well stewed; lay your veal in Xf centre of the dish, plac/the^ artLhoSs the aiia,l' lP°Ur tl,<3 rag°'lt r0umi n"'l over tne artichoke ; serve it to table. Veai. (Loin of) roasted—Spit the loin roast and baste it with butter- nlncpimd * it a dish with some vinegar \ ljtil Gr rosemary, „„d .1,R * 2 LVEA 514 YEA into this disla ; when the veal is done, take it up, make the herbs and gravy hot, and pour it into the dish with the meat. Veai, (Loin of) roasted.—The fat of the loin must he papered; roast it the same as the fillet. Veal (Neck of) boiled.—Chop ofi the chine hone from a line white neck of veal, sprinkle it with flour, put it in cold water, boil it very gently, taking care to slam it well; when done, serve it with parsley and butter, oyster sauce, or garnished with tongue or ham. Veal (Neck of) a la Creme, —lake a handsome-shaped neck of veal, hone and cut out all the sinews, soak it m milk tor four-and-twenty hours ; then take it out, dry it well, sprinkle it with salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, fasten it to the spit, and roast it for two hours and a half, basting it with bicliamelle. When done, putabit of glaze, a little pepper and nutmeg to the btchamdle; stir them to- gether, pour the sauce into a dish, and serve the neck of veal in it. Veal (Neck of) in Jelly, —lake a square-cut neck of veal, and having boned it, lard it regularly with udder, tongue, a ‘Vicariate, and very black truffles; wrap in slices of bacon, and tie it up; put the -joint into a braising-pan with remnants o. veal and poultry, a bouquet, two carrots, two onions, two cloves, a glass of brandy, half a class of Madeira wane, and two ladiesful of jelly; set the pan on the fire; when the liquor boils, skim it, cover the whole with a buttered paper, and close the braising-pan ; set it on a stove with fire on the lid; keep the heat moderate and equal for two hours and a half. W hen done, put the meat under pressure, and when cold, trim and glaze it. Lay it on a dish : serve it with the jelly, and a in ay on- naise Veal (Neck of) au Sanglw. —Lard a good-shaped neck of veal as usual, ana marinate it in two glasses of vinegar, with onions, hay leaf, sage, coriander, pepper, and salt; place it over hot ashes for two hours, and then roast it, using the marmade t0 VeT^Nechof) stewed. Season some slices of bacon with pepper, salt, shnlots and spices; lard a breast of veal with these, and let it simmer until tender three pints of stock, two onions, n bay leaf, and a little brandy; "hen done, lay the meat in a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, and pour it over the vea . Veal (Non) cn Eallottine* Season some lardons with salt, pepper, the four spices, shred parsley and scallions, thyme, and bay leaf; lard with this a noil of veal, and then put it into a stewpan with half a pound of butter, add pepper and salt, set it on the fire for three quarters of an hour, without letting it take colour; then put the veal in a dish; leave the pan on the fire that the butter may oil, when add a quarter of a pound of grated bacon, the same of oil, and a dessert-spoonful of shalots, chopped; fry them a little, then put in a dozen champignons chopped, a spoonful of shred parsley, seasoned with pepper and nutmeg; when they are all done, pour them over the veal. As soon as cold, take six sheets of paper, oil them well, lay thin slices of bacon over the meat, and then wrap it in a sheet of pa- per, with all its seasoning, fold a second over that, folded the reverse way, then again another, and so on till all the paper is used ; take care that the ends are quite secure, and that it is folded of a nice shape ; then tie it up, place it on a grid- iron, over a slow fire, minding the paper does not burn : do it tor an hour, untie the paper, and serve it; if the outer paper should be coloured in the least degree, take it off. Veat. (Noirof) a la Gendarme*—Lard a noil of veal with fat bacon, and tongue d Vicariate, and then soak it for twelve hours in oil, with a sliced onion, parsley, thyme, garlic, a bay leaf, pepper, and salt, after which wrap it in a sheet of paper, with all the marinade: fold two more sheets of paper over it, fasten the iwix to a spit, and roast it; remove the paper when the meat is nearly done, that it may brown, daze it lightly, and serve it with a pn, erode. The paper should he well oiled before the veal is wrapped in it. Veal (Noix of) Sautes.*—Having taken off the skin, cut. a noix of veal into round pieces, the size and thickness of a dollar, bent each piece with the back of a knite, lay them neatly in a pan, and pour over them melted butter, with shred parsley, scallions, pepper, and salt; set the pan on the fire, and the moment the pieces ot real are hot on one side, turn them over, and heat the other: five minutes is quite suf- ficient to do them; then lay them on a dish and keep them hot ; reduce rather more veloute than usual, add to it the Dray from the pan, and a liaison of two c-^ strain this sauce over toe pieces . ^ Veal (Now of) en Surprae.*—Take 8VEA VEA 515 well-shaped noix, lard the upper part with fine lardons, and the under part with larger ones, all well seasoned with salt and pepper; line a braising-pan with rashers of bacon and slices of veal; add two can-ots, four onions, one stuck with cloves, a bay leaf, salt, a bunch of parsley and scallions ; lay in your- veal, cover the udder only with slices of bacon, put a round piece of buttered paper over the whole, and braise the noix as usual, and then let it cool. When cold, cut out a piece of the meat of an oval shape, through which take out great part of the meat, leaving it at the bottom a sufficient thick- ness that it will contain a ragout securely. Cut a slice from the piece first taken out, cut the rest into dice, and do the same with some champignons, and put both into btchamelle. Make the noix hot again, then drain and glaze it; put the mince into the hole, lay the slice over it, glaze that also, and serve it:; pour some espagnole travaillde into the dish. Veal (Small Noix of).*—Take from the shoulder of veal fifteen small noix; take off all the skin and trim them; run these on three skewers, marinate them in some oil, with a sliced onion, parsley, pepper, and salt, for half an hour; their fasten them to a spit, and roast them before a large fire • glaze and serve with a clear aspic, or a puree of any kind you like. Veal {Shoulder of) Galantine.*—Take a handsomely-cut shoulder of veal and bone it; cut about a pound of meat from the thickest parts, mince it together with an equal quantity of bacon, mix them well with the yolks of four eggs, shred parsley, salt, and spices, and spread the farce, about an inch thick, over the whole joint; lay on it some lardons, truffles, tongue J l Scar late, carrots, and an omelet, coloured green with spinach essence, all cut in lardons; cover these with another layer of Jarce, place more of the lardons, &c., and then a third layer of farce• roll up the shoulder, carefully securing the ends ; lay rashers of bacon round it, wrap it in a cloth and tie it tight. Eine a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the galantine with two calf’s feet, the bone of the shoul- der, six carrots, eight or ton onions, one stuck with four cloves, four bay leaves a little thyme, a large bunch of parsley and scallions ; pour in some stock, and cover the pan ; set it on the fire, and leave it for three hours, by which time the shoulder will bo sufficiently done; take it out pressing it gently that all the gravy may run from it, and then let it cool. Break two eggs into a stewpan, beat them well, strain the liquor, and pour it to them,, stirring all the time, that they may be. thoroughly blended; add a bay leaf, a little thyme, and parsley, salt, pepper, and spices; set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil, remove it to the side ; cover the stewpan, and put hot ashes on the top, and leave it to boil slowly for half an hour, when strain it gently through a. fine cloth, but do not press it; when cold it will be quite a jelly. Place the galan- tine on a dish, trim and glaze it, and sur- round it with the jelly. Veal (Shoulder of) aux Petites Racines.* —The shoulder is boned, and larded in- side with bacon, seasoned with shred parsley, thyme, bay leaf, pepper, salt, and spices ; it is then rolled, and tied up like the galantine, dressed in the same way. It is served hot, with petites racin.es round it. (See Roots.) Veal (Shoulder of) roasted.—Gut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy, stuff the shoulder with the following ingredients : Some suet chopped fine, parsley and sweet herbs shred fine, bread crumbs, and grated lemon peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg ; whilst roasting, flour and baste it; veal requires being more done than beef. Veal Sweetbreads.—They are of them- selves generally considered very insipid, and are, therefore, usually served with a sharp relishing sauce, in whatever manner they are dressed, and commonly take their name from the sauce with which they are served. Particular care should be taken to braise them tender and white. Veal Sweetbreads a I’Anglaise.* Take six veal sweetbreads (three of each sort) scald, and then dress them in a half Maze* m which let them cool; have ready the yolks of four eggs, beaten with a quarter of a pound of butter, to the consistence of a thick cream; drain the sweetbreads, soak them in it, and then roll them in grated bread; repeat this operation, and either broil or bake them. Veal Sweetbreads (Atteletsof).*—When the sweetbreads are scalded, cut them into oblong pieces, all the same size, and put them into an attelet sauce ; cut also a calf’s udder in the same manner, but very thin - put these, alternately, on skewers; dip them in beaten egg, and broil them. Serve with a tomnta, or Italienne sauce. Veal Sweetbreads a la Btchamelle,— Blanch two throat sweetbreads, and then let thorn stew for fifteen minutes in some 2 l 2516 VEA VEA good braise ; take them out, and let tbem cool; then trim tbem neatly round, and cut them in rather thin slices, put them into some good bechamelle sauce ; a few mushrooms is a very great improvement; make the whole very hot, and serve. Veal Sweetbread Boudin.*—The sweet- breads being scalded, cut them into pieces as big as nuts, and mix with them pork and beef chopped small, shred tarragon, and scallions, godiveau, bread, boiled in milk, and beaten with yolks of eggs, sea- son the whole with salt, pepper, and spices. Soak some pieces of caul in warm water to soften them, spread them open on the table, and fill them with the above- mentioned mixture; roll them up in what- ever shape and size you please, cook them in a Dutch oven, and serve them crisp. V eal Sweetbreads en Caisse.*—Make three paper cases, each sufficiently large to con- tain a sweetbread ; take three sweetbreads, scald, and then dress them in an attelet sauce ; when done, and cold, put them into the cases, previously rubbed with oil; add a spoonful of espagnole to the sauce; mix them well together, and then pour it into the cases ; cover the sweetbreads with a few finely-grated dry crumbs, add a few drops of melted butter, and bake for half an hour ; let them be nicely browned, and serve. Veal Sweetbreads with Cheese.*■—Ery some small onions in a little butter, and then put in the sweetbreads, and half a glass of good stock. Cut some (i ruyere cheese into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and pour on them a little veal gravy, pre- viously mixed with the yolks ot two eggs ; place the dish over a moderate fire, that the cheese may dissolve gradually, and when the gratin is formed, pour on it the sweetbreads witb their sauce, brow n it with the salamander, and serve very hot. Veal Sweetbreads (Coquilles of').* Cut a throat sweetbread and some champignons into bits like farthings; put two large ladiesful of allemande, and a bit of glaze into a saucepan ; when it boils, put in the sweetbreads, and champignons, some but- ter, parsley, and lemon juice ; give them a boil, and then put the preparation into scallop shells, cover them with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Veal Sweetbreads with Culhs. "ell scald the sweetbreads, and trim them, put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of good consomme, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, two spoonsful of spices, a glass of white wine, a slice of ham, pep- per, and salt; when they are done, skim the sauce, sift it through a sieve, and re- duce it to a moderate consistence, adding a small quantity of parsley, chopped fine, a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve it over the sweetbreads. The lemon juice must be omitted if the wine makes it suf- ficiently sharp or relishing, which is the case for some palates. Veal Sweetbread a la Duchesse.—Scald it, then lard it; put into the middle a little farce called salpicon, made with mush- rooms, truffles, or fat liver; sew it up, and boil it in good veal stock; reduce the sauce to a glaze, and serve with a wine sauce, orange, or any other. It is also served with any sort of stewed greens, glazed like a veal Jricandeau. Veal Sweetbreads fried.—Cut them in long slices, and with a feather do them all over with yolk of egg; make a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated bread ; do them over with this, and fry them in butter; serve with butter sauce, with a little ketchup mixed in, or with gravy, or le- mon sauce. Veal Sweetbreads (Garnitureof ).*—Scald the sweetbreads, and put them into a stew- pan on two rashers of bacon, lay another over them, add a little clarified butter, carrots, onions, bay leaf, two cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the whole; put in some salt, and stew the sweetbreads for three quarters of an hour. When done, cut them in pieces to use when directed. Veal Sweetbreads braised.*—Take the whitest, roundest, and most fleshy sweet- breads, soak them well in warm water, then blanch them in nearly boiling water; take them out, drain, and lard them. Lay in a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices of veal, carrots, onions, two cloves, and two bay leaves; put in the sweetbreads, with half a spoonful of stock only; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and braise them for three quarters of an hour. I ake care they do not take colour. Serve with a puree of endive, or any other article of the same kind. ,, Yeai. Sweetbread like Hedgehogs.—Scald the sweetbreads, and lard them with ham and truffles, cut in small iardons, and tried for a short time in butter (lard them so that the Iardons may stick out a little to give the appearance of bristles): simmer the sweetbread thus larded in the same butter the Iardons were fried in, wnn517 VEA VEG stock, a glass of white wine, seasoned with a little salt, and pepper; when done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis, and serve this over the sweet- breads. Veal Sweetbreads larded.—Parboil two -or three sweetbreads ; when they are cold, lard them down the middle with little bits of bacon, on each side with bits of lemon peel, and beyond that with a little pickled cucumber cut very small; stew them gently in cullis or rich gravy, thickened with a little flour, add mushroom powder, Cayenne, salt, if necessary, and a little lemon juice. Veal Sweetbread Pie. — (See Sweet- bread under the letter S.) Veal Sweetbreads roasted.—Trim off the tough part, and blanch for three minutes in a stewpan of water, with a little salt, three heart sweetbreads, then take them out, and put them into a basin of cold wa- ter till cool; have an egg heat up in a dish, some bread crumbs, and clarified butter, run a skewer through the sweet- breads, and fasten them on the spit; egg them all over, shake some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clarified butter over, and then bread crumbs again; put them down to roast again for a quarter of an hour, then take them off the skewer, and serve them on a dish over a little butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon juice; let it he hot, hut not boiling, and thoroughly well mixed before it is served under the sweetbreads. Veal Sweetbreads (Saute of').*—Prepare, scald, and drain the sweetbreads; when cold, cut them into slices about half an inch thick ; put some clarified butter into a tossing-pan, season the slices with pepper and salt, lay them in the pan, pour more butter over them, and set the pan on a hot stove ; when one side is done, turn them ; they require a very short time to dress them. Serve them with an Italienne, and glaze them. Vea l Sweetbreads to slew.—Parboil them, and stew them in white gravy ; add cream’ Hour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Veal Sweetbreads with Sweet Herbs Braise them the same as with cullis sauce, or much in the same manner; take all sorts of sweet herbs, finely chopped, or any two or one in particular, and simmer them for some time in good cullis, and serve upon the braised sweetbreads, either whole or cut in pieces. Veal Tendons a, la Provenfale*—Cut your tendons into scallops, scald and press them ; when cold, put them into a tossing- pan, with a half glaze ; take care that the glaze covers them entirely ; place the ten- dons on a dish, en couronne; have ready some onions dressed as follows : Cut them in slices, and fry them, with a very little garlic, in some oil; drain the onion, sim- mer in a spoonful of espagnole, with a little vinegar and allspice ; pour this over the tendons and serve. VEGETABLES.—Vegetables should be gathered fresh, picked clean, trimmed or pared neatly, and washed in several waters. Those that are to be plain boiled should be put into plenty of boiling water, with salt in it, and drained the moment they are sufficiently done. If over boiled they lose their crispness and beauty. Vegetables (Dish of).—Wash a dish with white of raw egg', then make four divisions in it with fried bread, and put alternately into each division the following vegetables: Spinach, turnips, potatoes, sliced carrots, and small onions, or cauli- flower, or heads of broeoli, all previously stewed in a little cullis; when put into the dish, let as much of the essence as possible adhere to them. You may, if you please, instead of making the divi- sions of fried bread, make them of mashed potatoes and yolks of eggs mixed together, and put on the dish in as many divisions as you please ; afterwards baked till of a nice colour, and served to table with any kind of stewed vegetables you may ap- prove. Vegetable Marrow.*—The smallest are considered the best for dressing; they should be put into hot water with a little salt, and boiled for half an hour, that they may he quite tender; serve them on toasted bread, witli plain butter in a boat. Vegetables in a Mould.—Line the in- side of an oval mould witli rashers of bacon ; then set upright alternately, slips of turnips, carrots, pickled cucumbers, and celery, and asparagus heads. Lay a force- meat at the bottom of the mould, and round the insido of the vegetables; fill the centre with stewed beef tails, with the bones taken out, or with small pieces of mutton or veal passed with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Cover with forcemeat, wash it over with egg and bake it. When it is to he served, turn it gently out of the mould upon a dish, take oft' the518 VEG YEN bacon, make a little hole at the top, and pour in some good cullis. Vegetable Fie.— Cut celery heads two inches long, turnips and carrots into shapes, some peeled small onions, or two Spanish onions, artichoke bottoms cut into quarters, pieces of cauliflower, or heads of brocoli, .beads of fine asparagus, and any other vegetable you may think proper. Wash all these vegetables thoroughly clean; then boil each separately in just sufficient water to cover them, and as they get tender, strain the liquor into one stewpan, and put the vegetables into another. Then add to their essence half a pint of consomme ; thicken it with flour, and season it with Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice ; boil it for ten minutes, and then strain it to the ve- getables, and let them simmer together. Serve them in a raised pie crust, or in a pie-dish, with a raised crust baked round it. Vegetables to preserve jor the Winter. —French beans must be picked when young, and a layer of them put three inches deep into a small wooden keg; •sprinkle them over with salt, and then put another layer of beans, and strew salt over, and so on as high as you please; be care- ful not to put too much salt. Cover them with a plate, or a piece of wood that will go into tire keg, and place a heavy stone over it; a pickle will exude from the salt • and beans When wanted for use, cut, soak, and bcil them the same as though they were fresh. Keep carrots, parsnips, and beet roots, in lavers of dry sand, and do not clean either them or potatoes, from the earth that remains about them. Store onions should be kept hung up in dry cold room. Cut parsley quite close to the stalks, and dry it in a warm room, or dry it in u cool oven upon tins. Let artichoke bottoms be dried slowly, and kept in paper bags; keep truffles, morels, lemon peel, &c., in a very dry place. You may keep small close cabbages many weeks, by laying them, before tho frost sets in, on a stone floor, which will blanch, and make them very fine. Vegetables (liagout oj ).*—l’ut a slice of fresh butter into a saucepan, with some sorrel, lettuce, chervil, parsley, and green onions ; let the whole be well washed, squeezed, and chopped fine; leave tho saucepan over tho fire till the liquor of the vegetables is entirely consumed; then shake in a little flour,' moisten with some gravy and cullis, and add salt and coarse pepper. Let it boil till the herbs are well done, and the sauce wholly consumed; then add the yolks of three egg6 mixed up with cream, and thicken the ragout over the fire, without letting it boil. Vegetable Soup.—Feel and cut into slices six large onions, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling stock ; tben add to these a crust of bread toasted as brown and as hard as pos- sible (but be careful that it is not burnt), some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt, and let the whole stew gently for four hours, tben strain it through a coarse cloth, have ready -sliced carrot, celery, and a little nutmeg, add them to the soup, and let them stew in it until quite tender. Some like the addition of an anchovy, and a little ketchup. VELOLTE*—Take the cuttings and remains of nnv joints of veal and fowl you may have in the house, of which take four pounds, and put into a large stewpan, with some carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, three bay leaves, three cloves, and a ladle- ful of stock ; put your stewpan on a fierce fire, skim it well, and take care that the meat does not stick; when -sufficiently re- duced, add as much stock as will nearly fill the stewpan, salt it well; give it a boil, skim it, aud then put it on the side of the fire to simmer for two hours, aiter which strain it through a tammy. Make a white roux, stir into it for ten minutes a few champignons, then pour on it, a little at a time, the above liquor ; let it boil up once, skim it, and set it again by the side of the fire for an hour and a half; takeoff all the fat, strain it again, and then put it by for use. Take care that the velimte is not in the least coloured, as the whiter it is the better. T he velnute travailUe is done in the same manner ns the tspagnole. •VENISON.—The choice of venison should be regulated by the appearance of the fat, which, when the venison is young, looks thick, clear, and close; as it begins to change first towards the haunches, run a knife into that part; if tainted, you will perceive a rank smell, and it will have a green or blackish appearance. If you wish to preserve it. you may, by careful management and watching, keep it for a long time bv the followingmethod : Wash it well with milk and water very clean, and dry it perfectly with cloths un- til there is not the least damp remaining,VEN 519 VEN then dust pounded ginger over every part; this is a good preventive against the fly. When to be dressed, wash it with a litcle lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper should also be added to keep it. Venison (Breast of).—Either roast or try it; put some gravy into a stewpan, vith a little flour, red wine, currant jelly, and a little lemon juice; boil these together; put in the venison, let it heat, without boiling, and serve. Venison in Gallops.—Cut part of a haunch of venison into collops, which beat vith the back of a knife, and lard them with small lardons; shred some time, par- sley, and other sweet herbs; mix them with suet chopped fine, salt, pepper, cloves, autmeg, and the yolks of eggs ; spread this farce over the collops, roll them up, tie them round, and roast them; place a dish under them to receive the gravy, pour claret into it, and when the collops are nearly done, put the dish on hot ashes, with grated bread, vinegar, cinnamon, and a little sugar; stir them together, add a ladleful of clarified butter, put in the col- lops of venison, and serve very hot, with a sauce made as follows : Take of claret, water, and vinegar, a glass each ; put into them an onion stuck with cloves, two or three anchovies, a spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and of cloves also: give the whole a boil, and then strain it. Venison ( Hashed).—Warm it in its own gravy; if there is no fat left, take some slices of mutton fat, set on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, and let it sim- mer till dry; then add it to the hash. 'V enison (Hushed).*—Take some ancho- vies, boil them till they are dissolved, then add some oysters with their liquor, a little milk, some red wine, and a little ketchup; put in your venison, let it warm in this, but do not let it boil, and serve it with fried sippets, and the sauce, &c. over it. Venison Pasty, to be sensed hot.—Bone a breast of venison, bent it flat, cut it in large pieces, season it thoroughly, and lay it in a stone jar, and pour over it some drawn beef gro-vy; lay the hones on the top, then put the jar in a saucepan of water over the fire, and let it simmer for three or four hours, then set it in a cold place till the following day ; then lay a puff'paste, tolerably thick, round the edge of a deep dish, lay the meat in the dish, having- first taken oft' the cake of fat from the top ; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, and allspice; pour in part of the liquor, add some port wine, eg'g the bottom paste, and lay on a thick top paste ; trim and egg it, and let it hake rather more than an hour in a moderate oven ; reduce the remainder of the liquor with half a bottle of port wine till very strong, add a little Cayenne, and pour this into the pasty- just before serving. Venison Pie or Pasty. — All kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties must be highly spiced when served hot, and still more highly spiced when served cold; hut the seasoning must be regulated by judgment and taste. Take one or two breasts of venison (according to the size you wish to make your pie or pasty), bone it thoroughly, beat it very flat, and lard it through and through with large lardons, well seasoned with all sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chopped ; roll it up as tight as possible, and tie it up with strong twine. Put into a stewpan the hones and trimmings of the venison, with carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of gar- lic, thyme, bay leaf, peppercorns, and all- spice, and let all stew till nearly dry; fill it up with equal quantities of beef or mutton braise, and water, which let boil very gently till done, then pot in the roll of venison; put paper on the top, cover very close, and let it stew gently with fire over and under. When sufficiently done, take it off the fire, and let it stand in the liquor until nearly cold ; then prepare a plain paste of four pounds of flour to one pound of butter, the same as for raised pie, but instead of making it stiff’, mix it as soft ns possible ; lay part of this paste as thick as you well can round the edge of the dish; cut off the twine from the ve- nison, skin, and lay it in the dish, and and pour some of the gravy it has stewed in ; put on the cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in the top, do it over with egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three or four hours ; reduce the remainder of the liquor it was stewed in, and whoa the pie is baked, pour it in; serve it cold. The past y can scarcely be made too thick. Venison (Potted).—Put the venisoninto a pan, and pour red wine over it, and cover it with about a pound of butter; put a paste over the pan, set it in the oven, and let it be well baked ; when done, take the meat out of the gravy, heat it fine with the butter that has risen to the top, add more if necessary; season with pepper, salt, and mace pounded; put it into pots, set them in the oven for a fewVER 520 VEN minutes ; take them out, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Ves iso's (Roasted).—To dress the haunch, chop oft' the shank, take off the skin, but not any of the fat; then fasten it on the spit. Make a paste of flour and water, roll it out to the shape of the venison ; lay it on thick upon the venisou, paper over that, and secure it well with packthread. Let it roast at a good distance from the fire, and baste it frequently. About a quarter of an hour before serving take off the paste, dredge it with flour, baste it with a bit of butter, and sprinkle a little salt over it; and when of a fine brown colour, take it up, serve it on a dish, with a good gravy under it, and garnish the bone with cut paper. Serve with hot port wine, or currant jelly, in a boat. A neck of venison should be covered with paste, and roasted in the same manner as the haunch, only that it does not require being so much done. Veinison Sauce.—Serve with venison, currant jelly by itself, or warmed with port wine, or port wine warmed by itself. Venison Semey.—Make, some paste with the crumb of a brown loaf grated very fine, a pint of white wine, two pounds of sugar, and the rind of an orange shred small, add a little nutmeg and salt; mix it well with the hand ; roll it out; wrap the venison completely in this paste, and bake it for an hour. Serve it with white w'ine, boiled up with sugar, and spice; strew powder sugar over it. Venison (to stew).—Cut the venison into slices, and put them into a stewpan, with a little claret, rosemary, six cloves, vinegar, sugar, and grated bread ; set these on a moderate fire to stew. When done, add grated nutmeg, and serve. Venison (Stewed).— Put into a stew’pan n pint of good gravy, a pint of red wine, a large spoonful of currant jelly; cut the venison into slices, and flour it, and put it into the stewpan with the ingredients, and let it simmer till tender; take up the venison ; thicken the sauce with a hit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the meat. Vf.nison (Shoulder of) stewed. — Take out the bone and beat it; have ready some slices of mutton fat, that have been soak- ed a few hours in port wine, and lay them about the venison; sprinkle a little pepper and allspice, in fine powder, over it, roll it up tight, and tie it. Put it into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy, not too strong, half a pint of port wine, some pepper, and allspice. Let it simmer very closely co- vered, and as slowly as possible, for four hours. When quite tender, take off the tape, lay the meat in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with curraut-jelly sauce. The shoulder should not be dressed in this manner if very fat. V ERD d’Epinard, or Spinach Greening.— Wash a large handful of spinach and pound it in a mortar, squeeze the juice from if through a cloth into a stewpan ; stir it over the fire till it curdles, but be sure do not let it boil; pour it gently on to a silk sieve to drain the water off, and then rub the green through, which will then be fit for use. Parsley may be used the same way, but as it is of strong flavour, must only be used for such sauces and things a* require it. VERDE.—Infuse the rind of three lemons and four oranges in two quarts o' rum or brandy, for four-and-twenty hours, closely stopped; then squeeze the juice through a strainer; if the fruit is good, there will be half a pint, and if there is not so much, make it that; add to it i pound and a quarter of sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and keep stirring till all the sugar is dissolved ; when it is dissolved, stir in the peel and spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk; pass it through a bag till clear; bottle it. It will keep good for twelve months. VERJUICE.—Verjuice is the young, unripe, and sour grape; it is frequently used in French cookery, but very rarely put into English dishes. V eh juice.—Take some crab apples when the kernels turn black, lay them in a heap to sweat; then pick them from the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a mash, and press the juice through a bag of coarse hair cloth into a clean vessel; it will be fit for use in a month’s time. If intended for white pickles, distil it in a cold still. It may be put into sauces when lemon is wanting. Verjuice (Compote of).*—Choose the largest verjuice, split them open, and take out the seeds; throw the berries into cold water. Boil some water in a skillet, drain the fruit, and then put it into the skillet; when it rises to the surface, take the skil- let from the fire, cover it, and let it stand. When cold, drain, and mix the verjuice with a sufficient quantity of clarified su- gar; give it two or three boils together ; remove it from the fire, skim, and pour it into the comjMtier.VER VES 521 Verjuice Marmalade*—Take tlie seeds from your berries, which put into a skillet of boiling water, and set them on the fire; when the berries rise to the surface, cover the skillet, take it from the fire, and place it on hot ashes for two hours, that they may be quite green; at the end of that time pour the whole into a pan; when cold, press the juice from the verjuice, through a sieve into a stewpan, and put it again on the fire that the moisture may evaporate; then take it out quickly, weigh it, boil an equal quantity of sugar to casse, mix the fruit with it, simmer them toge- ther a little while, and then pour it into pots. Verjuice (Preserved).*—Split, and take the seeds from two pounds of verjuice, put the Iruit into a skillet of boiling water, set it on the fire, give it one boil, and then leave it on a very slow fire for five or six hours, covered close; at the end of that time the fruit will be green, and may be drained. Roil two pounds of sugar to petite plume, add the verjuice, boil it up twice with the pan covered ; skim it well, and pour the preserve into jars. Verjuice preserved Dry.*—Scald the verjuice as above, boil your sugar to perle, add the fruit, boil several times, and then pour the preserve into a pan; the next day drain off the syrup, boil it to grand perle, put in the verjuice, cover the pan, give one boil, skim it, and put it aside, the next day drain the verjuice, put it on slates, sprinkle sugar over, and dry it in the oven, or on a stove. Verjuice (Syrup of)*— Crush as much very green verjuice as will yield six pounds of juice; strain the juice, first through a sieve, and then through a jellv- bag until perfectly clear; boil three pounds of sugar to petite plume, pour the juice to |t; take care that the fire is a large one, oil the whole to perle, and then take it oil the fire, and when the syrup is half cold, bottle it. J 1 VERMICELLI Soup d VAllemande.- Mir together in a basin, the yolks of seven eggs, with halt a pint of cream squeezed through a tammy, and the minute before serving the soup to table add this liaison Vermicelli Cream.—Boil some verir celh in milk until it becomes quite a ma malade; let it cool, and then mix with a pint of cream, some macaroni dron orange flowers, and lemon peel, all cho ped very fine, with a little pounded cinn mon, five whole eggs well beaten, an sweeten with powder sugar according to taste; pour it into the dish it is to be served in, and bake it as usual. Vermicelli in Milk.*—Boil the quan- tity of milk you may require, and put into it half a pound of vermicelli, and a suffi- cient quantity of sugar; stir it frequently that the vermicelli may not form a paste : half an hour will be long enough to boil it. A little almond milk may be added when ready for table. Vermicelli Pudding.*—Boil a quarter of a pound of vermicelli with a little cin- namon, in a quart of milk ; in the mean time mix a quarter of a pound of melted butter with a pint of cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; pour in the vermicelli when quite soft; add a little flour and beef mar- row, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all up, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it. Vermicelli Pudding.—Boil four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two of cinna- mon. Then add half a pint of thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks of four eggs, thoroughly beaten; lay the above in a dish and bake. I ermicelli Soup.*—Take as much good stock as you require for your tureen, strain, and set it on the fire, and when it boils, put in the vermicelli, having first blanched it, and let it simmer for half an hour by a slow fire, that the vermicelli may not burst; the soup ought not to be very thick. Half a pound is sufficient for eight or ten persons. Season with salt and sugar. Vermicelli Soup a. la Jardiniere.*—- Take the same roots as mentioned for a Macedoine, cut them into fillets instead of dice ; cook them in some stock before you put in the vermicelli; season with salt and pepper; skim the soup frequently while boiling. Vermicelli Soup with Onions.*—Cut. the best parts of some onions into very thin pieces, and fry them lightly in a little butter; then add ns much stock as you require for your soup, season it with salt and pepper, put in your vermicelli, and boil for half an hour. If you desire to have merely the flavour of the onions, strain the soup through a tammy before you serve it. VESPETRO.*—Take half a pound of each of the following seeds : Angelica, coriander, fennel, and carrnway ; the rinds of four lemons, and as many oranges : in- fuse all these in two gallons and a half of the best brandy, close the vessel hormeti-VIN 522 VIN cally. In five days’ time, distil it in the bain-marie alembic, and draw from the above quantity five quarts of liqueur. Dissolve seven pounds of sugar in a gal- lon of pure river water; add this syrup to the liqueur, filter, and bottle it. VINEGAR. — This is an acid liquor, prepared by a second fermentation from various liquors, such as wine, cyder, perry, beer, mead, skimmed milk, &c. But the most common method of making it, in England, is from malt, and the pro- cess is as follows : Infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. As soon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, aud leave it to ferment for four or five days ; after which put the liquor into barrels, in a room heated with stoves, so that a mode- rate warmth maybe kept up for six weeks, and the fermentation continue regularly. By the end of that time the whole will he completely soured, and must now he ■changed into other barrels; lay a tile on the hungholes to keep out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a free circulation of air, and then place them in the open air for four or five months, according as the weather is warm or otherwise ; during the whole of this period, the fermentation proceeds, and at the end, the vinegar is nearly done. The next operation is this : the vinegar is poured into large vessels, called rape-tuns, to which there are false bottoms covered with rape, that is, the refuse of raisins, or other fruit, from which wine has been made ; fill one of these tuns entirely with the vinegar, and another ■about three fourths full, and every day take a portion of the liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into the other, ■until the vinegar is in a fit state to he drawn off ; when it must be closely bar- relled. Vinegar may also be made in much smaller quantities for domestic purposes ; the materials of various kinds, with the addition of sugar ; raisins, currants, and •ripe gooseberries, however, are the prin- cipal ; sometimes it is made from brown sugar, and water alone. I he proportions are the same as those necessary for strong wine ; make the barrel about three fourths full, add a toast covered with yeast, put an tlio bung very loosely, and place the barrel where it will be exposed to the sun, or, if it be winter, near the fire. 1 he fer- mentation should be moderate and con- stant till the vinegar is complete; then draw it off' clear, give it a boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle it. Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mix- ing with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, and its tartar reduced to pow- der, and put into a vinegar or any other cask ; if the latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, full of the steam from vinegar; in either case, the liquor should be stirred frequently ; the second fermen- tation will speedily commence ; it will become heated, and turn acid by degrees, and in a short time the vinegar will he produced. It is commonly supposed that wine which has become acid, will produce ex- cellent vinegar; this, however, is a mis- taken idea, for the stronger and better the quality of the wine, the stronger and bet- ter will he the vinegar. The French have several methods of making vinegar, which are subjoined. The vinegar-makers of Orleans pour the wine, of which they intend to make their vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which are close gratings of lime twigs ; these serve to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to the twigs, leave the li- quor perfectly clear. 1 hey then procure a number of casks, each containing a hun- dred gallons, either new or which have previously contained vinegar; these are set upright, and in the top of every one is bored a hole, two inches in diameter, these are kept constantly open; the last- mentioned casks are called Mothers; pour into all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling vinegar; to this, in a week’s time, add three gallons of wine, drawn lrom the firstmentioned casks; continue to add the wine, at intervals of a week, until the Mothers are quite full; then leave them for a fortnight, at the end of which period they generally draw7 oft the vinegar, taking care always to leave the Mothers halt full, at least, and then to fill them with wine as before. The method of proving when the vinegar is fit for use, is by plunging a stave into it; if on taking it out a white line is perceptible on the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. The place where the casks are kept should be very airy, and in the winter time, by means of stoves, the temperature should be raised to eigh- teen degrees of Reaumur- Paris vinegar varies from the above, and the process is very simple. A large quan- tity of wine lees is put into coarse sac. s, and laid in tubs, which are placed one upon another to form a kind ot press; JVIO VIO b23 means of a 'screw, every drop of wine is gradually squeezed from the lees; this operation cannot be performed in less time than a week. The wine thus extracted is put into casks ; in the headings a hole is made, as above, which holes are left con- stantly open; in summer time the casks so tilled are placed in the sun, and, gene- rally speaking, the vinegar is fit for use in a fortnight. In the winter, the fermenta- tion will last double the time, and must be assisted by artificial warmth. It some- times happens that the liquor heats to so great a degree that the hand cannot be home in it; in this case, the progress of fermentation must be checked by adding more wine, until it proceeds more regu- larly. When the vinegar is made, put it into casks which have the beech twigs at the bottom, as above mentioned ; let it remain a fortnight, by which time it will be sufficiently fermented to draw off into the casks for keeping it. Another very simple method is also "practised in France: a few quarts are drawn from a barrel of excellent vinegar, and an equal quantity of very clear white wine is put into the barrel, close the bung lightly, and keep it in a place where the heat is moderate and regular. In a month's time draw off'the same quantity as above, and pourin an equal portion of white wine. A barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a constant supply for a length of time, without leaving the slightest deposit. Vinegar in Balls-.—Gather bramble ber- ries when half ripe, drv them, and then beat them to a powder’; make it up into balls with strong white vinegar, about the size of nuts; dry them very dry, and keep them in boxes; when wanted, take some wine, or a little stale beer, dissolve a ball in it, and then make use of it. Vinegar Printannier.*—iake tarra°*on, ■savory, civet, shalot, and garlic, of each three ounces, a handful of mint and balm tops; dry them all well, and put them into a jar witli two gallons of the best vi- negar; cover the jar, and place it where it will be exposed to the sun for a fortnight; then draw it off, press the dregs well' Alter, and bottle it. Cork the bottles tight’. VIOLETS (Candied).— Pick off nthe green stalks from some double violets ; boil some sugar to snuffle; putin the violets’, and keep them in till the sugar again boils to souffle; then rub the sugar against the sides of the pan until it is white ; stir all together till the sugar leaves the violets and then sift and dry them. Violets (to Rock Candy). — Pick the leaves oft' the violets; then boil some of the best and finest sugar to souffle, pour it into a can dying-pan made of tin, in the form of a dripping-pan, about three inches deep ; then strew the violet leaves as thick as possible on the top, and put it into a hot stove, in which let it remain for ten days ; when it is hard candied, break a hole in one corner of it, and drain off all the syrup ; break it out, and place it in heaps upon a tin to dry in a stove. Violets (Conserve of).*—Take a quarter o fa pound of early violets, pioked ; bruise them in a mortar; boil two pounds of sugar to cussd, take it oft', put in the pulp, and mix them together over the fire, and when the sugar bubbles up, pour the con- serve into the moulds. Violet Drops.*—Take a certain quan- tity of syrup of violets, which mix with an equal portion of water ; use this mix- ture, and make your drops precisely as directed. You may, if you please, per- fume it with oil of violets, but that is not necessary, as the syrup imparts sufficient odour. (See Orange-Jiower Drops.) Violet Drops.—Take the juice of six lemons, mix with it some finely-sifted powdered sugar, and two spoonsful of essence of violets, and colour it of a fine blue colour ; mix the whole well together, and dry it over the fire, the same as all others, and drop them off a knife on paper, the usual size of drops; let them stand till cold, be careful that your mixture is not too thin; when the drops are cold, put them into papered boxes. Violets (Marmalade of)*—Take three pounds ot violets, and four pounds of su- gar, put the former into a mortar and biuise them to a pulp ; in the mean time boil the augar to souffle, then add the flowers; stir them together, add two pounds of apple marmalade, and when it has boiled up a few times, put the marma- lade into pots. Violets (Syrup of).* — Pound very lightly in a marble mortar, and with a wooden pestle, one pound of pioked vio- lets ; warm gradually a glass or earthen- ware vessel with a small opening, into which put the pounded flowers, and pour over them two pounds of boiling water - close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, renewing them when neces- sary, to keep up an equal temperature-for twelve hours; after that time, pass the whole through a close cloth, squeezing it well: let it stand for half an hour; then524 WAF WAL pour it oft' very carefully, tliat all the sedi- ment may remain at the bottom; weigh it, and the above quantities will have yielded seventeen ounces ; put into a matrass two pounds of crushed sugar with the infusion, close the matrass tight, and set it in the bain-marie, over a moderate fire; shake it occasionally to accelerate the dissolution of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved, let the fire go out and the matrass cool gradually. When cold, pour the syrup into bottles. VOL AU VENT.*—Take three quarters of a pound of puft’ paste, give it six turns, roll it out to a tolerable thickness, and take care that it is equally thick all over; lay a very thin piece of common paste on a bak- ing-tin, put the pufif paste on it, cut it to the size and shape of the dish it i3 to be served in; make a mark all round the top, at an inch and a half from the edge, dorez, and decorate the sides and top according to taste, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, take out the inside, as marked, replace it in the oven to dry a little, and then fill your vnl an vent with such ragoiits or fruits as may be directed: if for sweets, glaze the top with sugar. W. WAFERS. * — Take a pint of good cream, half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of powder sugar, and two drachms of orange-flower water. Beat the cream with the flower, a little at a time, until both are mixed perfectly smooth and free from lumps, then add the other articles, and as much more cream as will make the paste nearly as thin as milk; make the iron hot, dip a feather in some melted butter, and rub the iron over with it; put on the iron about a spoonful and a half of the paste, press them a little gently, and place the iron on a stove ; open the iron a little frequently, to see if it be done ; when one side is baked, turn the iron, and do the other. The wafers should only be lightly coloured. Take them from the mould care- fully with a knife. Wafers (a V Alle.mande).*— Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and cut them into very thin slices; put them in a basin with three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and two pinches of crisped orange flowers, mix them together with white of egg. Rub some wafer paper over with white wax, and a little sweet oil; spread the preparation over it as thin as possible, and strew chopped pistachios on the sur- face ; put them into a rather hot oven. When about half done, take them out, cut them into squares, replace them in the oven a moment, and then roll them on a stick; as soon as they are cold, lay them on a sieve ; keep them covered. Wafers (en Cornets).*—Three ounces of butter, the volks of three eggs, a quart of water, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and the same of flour. Melt the butter, then put to it the eggs (well beaten), sugar, flour, and the water, a little at a time, to prevent any lumps. Make your wafers as above directed, and whilst hot, twist them round like horns. Wafehs (German).* — Take seventeen ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of good yeast, which make into a paste, with as much warm milk as will make it run from the spoon freely, without being too clear; then put it into a warm place. When it has risen well, add to it the yolks of fourteen eggs, well beaten, the whites whipped to a snow, and the grated rinds of two lemons. The whole being well mixed, pour over it seventeen ounces of fresh butter melted, but not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put the preparation again into a warm place to rise a second time ; when it has risen suffi- ciently, and your pan quite hot, rub the latter with butter, fill it with the paste, set it over a brisk fire, and fry your wafers; make both sides equally brown; when done, sprinkle them with powder sugar (and cin- namon, if you like), and serve them hot. Be careful in taking out the paste to fill tire pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge the spoon into the preparation, when not using it; the upper part of the paste should be taken off very gently, and the spoon laid across the top of the vessel ; if these pre- cautions be not attended to, the good appearance of the wafers will be de- stroyed. Wafers (a Vltalieline).* — Take eight eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a pound of flour, six ounces of cream, the same of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, and the rind of a lemon grated. Beat the eggs with the sugar and flour first; then add the cream, milk, and other materials, by degrees ; mix them well, and take care there are not the slightest lumps. Make the wafers as directed. WALNUTS in Brandy*—Take your walnuts lor this purpose, when sufficiently young for a pin to penetrate them ; let them be fresh gathered ; peel, and throwWAL WAL 525 them into cold water; then boil them in some water, with a small quantity' of alum, and the juice of a lemon to prevent their turning- black. When they are enough done, put them again into cold water. Boil some clarified sugar to petit lisst, and (having previously drained) pour this syrup over the walnuts ; repeat this opera- tion three succeeding days ; the last time, however, boil the sugar to la nappe; the following day draw the fruit well, and then put it carefully into bottles : add to the syrup two thirds more brandy, strain the liqueur, and pour it to the walnuts. Cork the bottles tightly. Walnut Ketchup.* — Thoroughly well bruise one hundred and twenty young- walnuts ; put to them three quarters of a pound of salt, and a quart of good wine vinegar ; stir them every day for a fort- night; then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and set it aside; put to the husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand all night; then strain and squeeze them as before, adding the liquor which is obtained from them to what was put aside the preceding day, and add to it one ounce and a quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, half an ounce of nut- megs bruised or sliced, half an ounce of ginger, and five drachms of mace, and boil it for half an hour ; then strain it off from the spices, and bottle it for use. Walnut Ketchup for Fish Sauce.—Take a quart of walnut pickle, add to it a quarter of a pound of anchovies, and three quarters of a pint of red port, and let it boil till re- duced to one third; then strain it, and when cold, put it into small bottles, and keep them closely corked. Walnuts oj Marchpane*—Take a piece of marchpane paste, into which work a little cinnamon, and bole armenicum (both in powder), but of the latter only a small quantity, as there should be but a very slight red tinge ; when equally coloured, rol out the paste to the thickness of half an inch. Have ready two moulds of pear-tree wood of two halves of a walnut shell, into which put small pieces of the paste ; press them down with the finger that the marks may be conveyed to the paste; cut off all which comes above the edges of the mould, and then turn them out (the paste must be well sprinkled with flour, to prevent its sticking to the moulds); when you have as many walnut shells as you wish, place them the hollow side downwards on paper- foave them thus for three or four days, and then put them into a cool oven for a quarter of an hour; if put into too warm an oven the shells will burst, and be too deep coloured. In the mean time boil some sugar to a syrup, with a little water ; when the sweetmeats are done, wash the outer part of them with this syrup, by means of a hair pencil; replace them in the oven a minute to dry ; then fill each shell with compote of apples, raspberries, or any other fruit; moisten the edges with gum, and stick them together. These imitative walnuts, if carefully done, bear a close resemblance to the real ones, are of a delicious flavour, and will keep a lon°- time in a dry place. Walnut Pickle.—Put a hundred of laro-e double walnuts into a stonejar ; take four ounces of black pepper, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of ginger one ounce of cloves, a pint of mustard seed two cloves of garlic, and four handsful of salt; bruise the spice and mustard seed, and boil them in as much vinegar as is sufficient to cover the walnuts ; when cold pour it over the walnuts; in two days’ boil the pickle again, pourit to the walnuts immediately, cover them close, and repeat this for three days. 1 Walnut Pickle.*—Lay your walnuts in water, and change it every day for the space of three weeks to extract all the bitterness from them; make a pickle with spice, salt and vinegar ; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and pour over the walnuts. Walnuts preserved with Sugar.* Ga- ther the walnuts when they have attnined their full size, but before they have become bard, they should be in that state that a pin will penetrate them. Prick each wal- nut all over with a large pin, putthem into cold water, and leave them for two hours - then pour that water away, and fill the pan with fresh; let the walnuts remain thus for four days, changing- the water every twenty-four hours, to take out all the bit- terness. At the end of the time chan°-0 the water, and set them on the fire; as soSn as they are soft, take them out carefully with a skimmer, put them again into cold water, and leave them four or five days changing the water as before every twenty- four hours. At the expiration of that time place the walnuts in a large glazed pan. then take the common sugar, even the refuse of what has been clarified will be good enough; boil this with some water and run the syrup through a jelly-bao- • wash the pan that it was boiled in well’ then put in the filtered syrup, and boil it to lissc ■ let it stand, and when about halfAVAL 526 WAT cold, pour it over the walnuts, and leave them; next day drain off the syrup, boil it again, and when half cold, pour it on the fruit; repeat this every twenty-four hours during eight or nine days, increasing the degree daily, so that on the last day it maybe at perle; a small quantity of coarse sugar should be added at every boiling, as the fruit ought to be covered with the svrup. On the ninth day, put a few cloves and some cinnamon in a glass of water for twenty-four hours; then cut each clove into four pieces, lengthwise; cut the cinnamon also into bits about the same size, take the walnuts out of the syrup, and stick four pieces of clove, and as many of cinnamon, into every walnut; in the mean while, boil the syrup to grand lisse ; and when half cold, pour it over the fruit and leave it; in twenty-four hours drain off the syrup, and set it on the fire for the last time ; as soon ns it begins to boil, put in the fruit, let them boil up together about a dozen times, and then take them from the fire. Make the bottles quite hot, put in the walnuts one by one, with a skimmer, pour the syrup on (they should be quite covered with it), and when cold, cork them tight, and tie a parchment over every one. These walnuts may be eaten immedi- ately, or they will keep for ten years but, as in the course of time the fruit sucks up the syrup, they should be filled up, when required, with a syrup, made with coarse sugar, boiled with some water. Walnuts (Batajia of).— Ibis is gene- rally made with fresh ripe walnuts ; when thoroughly cleansed and peeled, split two dozen of walnuts, with the shells, for the proportion of three quarts of brandy; and let it infuse in a cool place about a month, stirring the vessel now and then ; then strain the brandy off', and put it into the vessel again, with a little cinnamon, cori- ander, a few cloves, and two pounds of clarified sugar; infuse this as long again ; then strain it as usual. It will be the better for keeping. Walnuts (Batajia <;/').*—Take a pound of very young walnuts ; it a pin will qot pass through easily, they are too old; pound them well, and iniuso them for six^ weeks in two quarts of brandy, with halt a drachm of cinnamon, and eighteen grains of mnce. At the end of that period, strain the infusion, and mix with it a pound of sugar, dissolved in half a pint of water; let it remain six weeks longer, and then filter, and bottle it. Walnut Wine.—To every gallon of water, put two pounds of brown sugar and a pound of honey, and boil them for half an hour ; be careful to skim it clean. Put into a tub a handful of walnut leaves to every gallon, and pour the liquor upon them; let it stand all night, then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeast. Let it work fourteen days ; beat it four or five times a day, to take off’ its sweetness, and then stop up the cask. It should stand six months before it is used. Wastrefiche.*—Prepare some parsley roots and leaves, as directed for sauce pluche; cut the red part of carrots as thin as possible ; cut also the rind of lemon, or bitter oranges ; scald them all together for about five minutes, and then let them cool; when cold, put them into a stewpan with some fish broth; as soon as done, add some butter, or vinegar sauce, stir it in, and use it as directed. WATERCRESSES (Stewed) Pick and wash twelve bunches of watercresses; let them be boiled till they are half done, take them out, and dram and squeeze them quite dry ; then chop and put them into a stewpan, add cullis, cream, salt, and pep- per, but only a small quantity of each ; let the whole stew gently ten minutes, and serve them to table with fried bread all round the dish. WATER Cordial *—Infuse for a week, the rinds of fifteen very sound lemons, half an ounce of cinnamon, and four ounces of coriander seeds crushed, in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water ; then distil it. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in an equal quantity ot pure river water; mix it with your liqueur, filter, and bottle it. Water (Imperial).—Put into a large jug, or jar, two ounces of cream of tartar, with the juice of two lemons, and pour to these seven quarts of boiling water; when cold, strain it through a very fine sieve, sweeten, suid bottle it; it is fit for use on the following day. Water (Souchy),—Stew a few flounders, some parsley leaves and roots, thirty pep- percorns, and a quart of water, till the flounders are stewed to pieces : pulp them through a sieve. Put the pulped fish into a stewpan,with theliquor they were boiled in, some perch, tench, and some fresh leaves, and roots of parsley, and set it on the fire to simmer till all are done : then serve in a deep dish. Serve slices of bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy.WHI 527 WHI W a ter (Souchy).—Thoroughly cleanse some perch, or flounders; put them into a stew-pan with some cold water (suffi- cient for broth), a very little white-wine vinegar, and some salt; let them boil till done, carefully skimming, serve them with the liquor they were boiled in ; add to it some parsley roots, neatly cut, trimmed, and ready boiled, and strew over parsley, boiled of a nice green, and serve bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. WELSH Rabbit.—Take a slice of bread, and toast it on both sides; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, brown it nicely with the salamander, rub some mustard overit, and serve as hot as possible. Welsh Rabbit.*'—-Toast as many slices of bread as you may require; cut some Gloucester cheese into dice, and put it into a saucepan with a very small quan- tity of water, a little black or Cayenne pep- per ; when the cheese is melted, spread it over the toasts, and colour it with the salamander. WHEATEARS.—Pick them, cut oft the pinions at the first joint, draw out the inside ; turn the feet close to the legs, and entwine one in the other; then run a long skewer through the middle of the bodies of as many as you intend serving, and fasten them on the spit. WHEY.*—Put a very small portion of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire until turned; then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a little nutmeg grated and strewed over, or strain the liquor carefully from the curd, and serve quite clear. . Whey {Vinegar).—Put into some boil- ing milk as much vinegar as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute it with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a few lumps of sugar. You may, if you like it better, use lemon juice, instead of vinegar. Whey (White Wine).—Pour as much good raisin wine into a pint of boiling new milk, as will completely turn it, and"make it look clear; let it boil up, then set the saucepan on one side till the curd sub- sides ; it must not be stirred. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boil- ing water, and a bit of loaf sugar. WHITE Pot.—Add to a pint of cream, four eggs, beat up with a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and plenty of sugar ; slice very thin the crumb of a small roll; put it into a dish, and pour the cream, See. over it ; add a few sun raisins, previously boiled, and a little sweet butter, and put it into a moderate oven to bake. White Pot.*—Beat up the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, with, two quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a nutmeg grated, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; cut a small roll into very thin slices, lay them in a dish, and pour the milk, &c. over them ; put a bit of butter on the top, and set it in the oven; it will take half an hour baking. WHITINGS.—In choosing whitings, be careful that the skin has a silvery ap- pearance, that the body is firm, and thp fins stiff, these are sure proofs of its fresh- ness. Whitings a VAnglaise.*—Put into a saucepan two spoonsful of oil, half a lemon sliced (the pips and rind taken off), salt, and pepper, two glasses of white wine, the same of water, and let them boil nearly a quarter of an hour; then put the whitings, properly cleaned, cook them in the above, and serve with a sauce made as follows : Blanch a clove of garlic, and beat it with the back of a knife, put it with parsley, shalots, and two glasses of Champagne, into a stewpan; let it boil five minutes, then add some butter rolled in flour, salt, and pepper; stir it over the fire till smooth, then serve. Whitings (Boiled). — Whitings should be boiled in the same manner as cod, had- dock, or any other fish; serve with an- chovy sauce, or ketchup, and butter. W hitings ( Broiled).—W ash thewhitings in salt and water; dry them well with°a cloth, flour them, lay them on the gridiron, and broil them over a very clear fire; serve with shrimp or oyster sauce. Whitings (Dried).—To dry whitings, you must choose the largest; take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and cleanse the blood from the backbone. Wipe them very dry, and put salt into them, and into tlie sockets of the eyes ; let them lay for a night on a board ; then hang them up in a dry place ; they will he fit for eating iu three or four days ; when wanted to be served, skin and rub them over with e»•«•, and strew them with bread crumbs. Lay them before the fire, and baste them with butter until sufficiently brown; serve with egg sauce. Whitings, Forcemeat Balls Bono as neatly ns possible either large or small whitings ; scrape the flesh, and pound it in a mortar; boil some bread crumbs in cream, until the liquor is quite soaked dry;WHI WIN 5J8 then pour it into the mortar, add a good bit of butter, a little chopped parsley, half a shalot, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites well beaten ; mix the whole well together, have a stewpnn of stock on a brisk fire, and when it hoils first add to it a glass of white wine; take a small quantity of the farce, form it into a ball, and put it into the stock, and so con- tinue till all is used ; take care to turn them about; they require but a few minutes boiling; take them out one hy one, accord- ing as you threw them in, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Serve with a good cullis sauce, with a little lemon juice. Whiting (Fried).— Cleanse and skin them, turn their tails into their mouths, securing them with a small skewer: do them all over with egg, and bread crumbs, and fry them quickly in boiling lard. Serve with anchovy, or shrimp sauce, in a boat. Whitings are frequently served to gar- nish salmon and cod. Whitings (Fried).* — Take as many whiting's as you may require; cleanse, scale, and wipe them'dry; then run their tails through the eyes with a skewer, soak them well in milk ; flour, and fiy them of a nice colour. Serve them on a napkin. Whitings with Herbs. — Cleanse and skin them; cut off the heads, then put them between two dishes, the under one well rubbed with butter, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped fine and strewed over the fish, and let them simmer over hot ashes, put hot ashes also on the top ; turn the fish once or twice; when done, place them on a dish ; pour the sauce and all the sweet herbs over them. Whitings (Minced a la Creme).— lake the fillets off the whitings, and toss them in egg, as directed in the receipt for Fil- lets of Whitings fried; then with your hands carefully separate the small flakes, putting them as you do them into a stew- pan; when all is done, pour over them a good cream sauce; when wanted to bo served, toss it gently over a moderate fire, and put it in a dish ; he careful not to use a spoon, as it will break the flakes, and spoil the look of the dish. Whitings with Satire.—Make a brine with salt and water, sprigs of parsley, sha- lots, hits of roots, and onions; let the whole boil together for half an hour, then strain it, and boil the whitings in it, add- ing one third part of milk ; when done, drain them : make a sauce with a bit of butter, a little flour, two whole green sha- lots, pepper, and salt; make this tolerably thick with cream; take out the shalots, and serve the rest, over the whitings. Whitings (Fillets of) fried.—'lake the skin off very neatly from the fillets, cut them in two, have ready an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt; toss the fillets in this, and a few minutes before serving, take them out of the egg, shake them in flour, fry them quick that they' may not he greasy, lay them neatly' round the dish, and serve abutter sauce, made very hot, in the centre, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and a little glaze mixed in it; garnish with fried parsley. Whiting (Fillets of) Grillee, with Sharp Sauce.—Cut the fillets, and toss them in egg, the same as in the receipt for Fillets of Whitings fried; shake them in bread crumbs, and as yTou do them, lay them on paper; have ready some clarified butter, dip them in, then bread them a second time, lay them on a gridiron, over a clear fire of wood ashes, broil them of a nice colour on each side, then arrange them neatly round a dish, and pour into the centre some consomme, made very strong, add the juice of nearly half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt mixed in it. WIDGEON.—They should be taken up with the gravy' in, haste with butter, and sprinkle a little over them before they are taken up; pour a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot sauce in a boat. Widgeons (Collared).—Bone the wid- geons, cut them in halves, and marinate them for twelve hours in a little white wine, with cloves, mace, pepper, and salt; then take them out, dry them, season them with pepper and chopped sage ; then dip them in egg, and lay' them on their sides ; add a couple of onions, chopped up; then roll them into collars, boil them in good stock, white wine, whole pepper, and mace; they must be kept in this pickle. Widgeon (Hashed).—Half roast them; when served to table, slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little red wine, and squeeze a little lemon juice over ; put some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, and let it remain over the lamp till done. WINE.* —The different methods of making English wines having already been mentioned under the several articles of which they are composed, little further need he said on the subject. I he follow- ing is a list of the fruits most commonly used for making wines in this country': Gooseberry. Currant—red, white, and black.529 woo woo Cherry. Grape. Damson. Sloe. Strawberry. Raspberry Mulberry. Blackberry. Elderberry. Grape, and the foreign fruits. Raisin Orange. Lemon. Of these, the best, according to general opinion, are of our own fruits, the goose- berry and currant, and of the others, the raisin and orange. Quinces are sometimes made into wine, but with little success; from the resem- blance to the apple and pear, it is better adapted to the making of cyder. The principal defect in the manufacture of British wines, is the great quantity of sugar generally employed. If a much larger proportion of fruit were used, the wine would not only possess a more de- cided character, but be of a higher quality and of a much more wholesome nature. Wine (Madeira) Sauce *—Take a tea- spoonful of flour, and a preserved green lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a glass of Madeira wine, and a little con- somme, add an ounce of butter, some salt, and nutmeg; set these on a very hot stove to boil fora quarter of an hour ; then take it off, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till the butter is melted . WOODCOCKS.—The greatest possible care should be taken, in picking of these birds, to handle them as little as possible, on account of the skin being so particularly tender, and when broken it spoils the beauty of the bird. When picked, cut off the pinions at the first joint, press the legs close to the side, through which and the body pierce the beak of the bird; then cross the feet, and lay a slice of bacon over the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be dressed according to the same rules. Woodcocks. — Take a pound of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and put it into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, an onion stuck with cloves, two blades of mace, and some whole pepper; boil all these together till reduced to half; then strain it off into another saucepan: draw the woodcocks, and lay the trail in a plate; put the woodcocks into the gravy, and let them boil in it for twelve minutes; while they are boiling, mince the trail and liver verv small; put them into a small sauce- pan, with a little mace ; add four or five spoonsful of the gravy the woodcocks are boiled in; then take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine into a dish placed before the fire, and put to the trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in flour, set it on the fire, and shake it round till the butter is melted ; then put in the bread crumbs, and shake the saucepan round ; lay the woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Wooodccks.—These are dressed much in the same manner as woodcocks a la Duchesse, only that truffles are added to the forcemeat. Woodcocks a la Duchesse.—Split six woodcocks down the back, and take out all the inside to make a farce, with two pounded anchovies, half a spoonful of capers, parsley, shalots, and mushrooms, all chopped very small, and mixed with a good bit of butter, a little scraped bacon, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and salt; put this into the woodcocks, sew them up close; and braise them with a few slices of veal, and one slice of ham; cover them with thin slices of bacon; add a glass and a half of red wine, and a few spoonsful of cullis : when done, strain, and skim the sauce, and thicken it with butter and flour. Woodcocks (Farced).—Split the wood- cocks at the back, take out all the inside, and mix it with a little scraped bacon, chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; stuff the woodcocks with this, and sew them up; wrap them in slices of bacon, and over that, paper; then put them down to roast; serve with what sauce or ragout you think best. Woodcocks a la Franfaise.—Pick, draw, and truss them; lard their breasts with broad pieces of bacon ; roast them, aud, serve them upon toasts dipped in ver- juice. Woodcocks (Minced) en Croustades *— Take the meat from some cold roasted woodcocks, clear away all the sinews and skin, and mince it as fine as possible. Pound the intestines (except the gizzard) and remnants of the birds. Put a glass of Champagne wine and three shalots into a saucepan; set it on the fire, and when it lias boiled up a few times, add four ladies- ful of reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze of game; boil these, and then put in theWOO woo 530 pounded meat; stir them well together, taking care it does not boil; strain the puree, and keep it hot. Make nine heart- shaped croutons, as usual (see Fillets en Canapis), and when cleared out, put the mince to the puree, mix them together with some butter, and then fill the hearts with it, and dish them, the points in- wards ; lay a poached egg on each, and serve them. Woodcocks in a Minute *—Put a brace of woodcocks into a fryingpan, with some butter, shred shalots, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; set the pan on a fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for seven or eight minutes ; then add the juice of two lemons, half a glass of white wine, and some raspings; and leave them on the fire till the sauce has boiled up once; then serve all together. Woodcock Pie (Cold'). — When the woodcocks are picked, take out the en- trails, and put them aside, and truss the birds, as for roasting; flatten the breast- bone, and slightly broil them over a clear charcoal fire ; let them get cold, then lard them all over, pound some bacon in a mortar, mix with it the livers of the birds, pounded also, with two or three leaves of sweet basil; mince the entrails very fine, and mix them with the rest of the farce, raise the pie, lay some of the farce at the bottom of it, and put the rest into the woodcocks, lay them in the pie, put be- ween them some pounded bacon, mixed with fresh butter, seasoned with a little mace, nutmeg, and salt; then lay in a nice veal cutlet, and over that some slices of bacon, cut very thin; put on the cover, and set it in the oven for three or four hours, according to the number of birds; serve cold. For another way of making Woodcock Pie, follow the directions given for Snipe Pie. Woodcocks (Potted).—They are done in the same manner as pigeons are potted. Woodcocks (PurUe of) en Croutons.*— Take the meat and insides of three or four cold roasted woodcocks, and pound it with nearly a quarter of a pound of ba- con and some sweet herbs; put the bones and other bits of the birds into a stewpan, with a glass of white wine, some parsley leaves, a bay leaf, a clove, two glasses of stock, and six dessert-spoonsful oiveloutd, reduce these to half, rub the whole through a bolting-cloth, and when cold, pour it over the pounded meat, and pass the puree through a sieve, as usual; if it will not pass easily, add a little consomme to it; put this puree into a saucepan, and keep it hot. Prepare some croutons as directed for fillets en canapes (only making them an inch and a half thick, and of a pointed oval shape), and when the middle is cleared away, fill the space with the puree, and serve the croutons. Woodcocks ait Restaurant*—Take a leash of woodcocks; take the trails from two of the finest, with which mince and mix some calf’s liver, and stuff them ; truss all three, and roast them ; when the bird which has the trail in is about two thirds done, take it up, pound it, bones and all, and boil it in equal quantities of stock and red Burgundy, with salt, pepper, and shalots; when it has boiled half an hour, rub it through a sieve, and serve it in the dish with the roasted woodcocks. Woodcocks (Roasted).—They should be roasted with a toast under to receive the trail, which must be served under them in the dish. Serve with melted butter, and gravy for sauce. Woodcocks (Salmis of).*—Take three cold roasted woodcocks; cut them up, trim the pieces, and put all the best parts into a stewpan ; put the remnants into a mortar, with a pinch of parsley leaves, six shalots, a bay leaf, garlic, if liked, and pepper; pound these well, and put them into another saucepan, with a little melted butter; set them on the fire for about ten minutes, then add a glass of white wine, three ladiesful of consomme, and six of espagnole ; reduce this to half, rub it through a bolting-sieve, and pour it over the woodcock; make the whole hot without boiling, and serve it with sippets in the dish. Woodcock (Salmis of).*—Cut up the woodcock on the table, and put the pieces on a dish, which place on a stand, with a lamp under it; add pepper, salt, shred shalots, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and a bit of butter; strew raspings over, and boil slowly for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Use spirits of wine for your lamp. Woodcock Sauce.—Pound the bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of cul- lis, and two spoonsful of red port; reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, and then strain it; when strained, add pepper, salt, and the juice of two Seville oranges. Woodcocks (Slewed).—Slit them, but do not take out the insides; fry them in531 YEA woo melted bacon, just to brown them; then put them into a stewpan, with some good gravy, salt, pepper, and some mushroom, powder; add a little lemon juice, and let the whole stew gently till done. Woodcocks en Surtout.—Make a force- meat with some veal, as much beef suet, chopped and beaten in a mortar, an equal quantity of crumbs of bread, with a little beaten mace, pepper, and salt, some par- sley, and a few sweet herbs ; mis all up with the yolk of egg; half roast your woodcocks; then lay some of the force- meat round a small baking-dish ; chop the trail, and strew it all over the dish, then lay in the woodcocks; put into a stew- pan, truffles, morels, and mushrooms, a parboiled sweetbread cut into pieces; let them stew together, beat it up with a little white wine; and then put them to some good gravy, and make it of a proper con- sistence ; set it to cool, and then pour it over the woodcocks, and lay the yolks of hard-boiled eggs all about; work up the remainder of the forcemeat, and roll it out like paste, and lay over the birds sauce and eggs; close the edges, wash it over with yolks of eggs, and set it in the oven; it will take half an hour baking; serve it to table very hot. Woodcocks (Tureen of)* — Take as many woodcocks as your tureen will re- quire, take out the trails, and make them into a farce, with some pounded bacon, butter, sweet herbs, and anchovies; stuff your birds with this farce, and place them in a braismg-pan between slices of bacon and yeal; moisten with a glass of white wine and stock, close the pan as tight as possible, and braise them for five hours over a slow fire. Put the woodcocks into the tureen, and strain the liquor over tnem, slamming ofl' the fat. Woodcocks (Fillets of) cn Canape*— Take the fillets of two brace of woodcocks, and llUi° “ StewPan, sprinkle pepper and salt, and pour some melted butter over them. 1 hen take the inside of the wood- cocks (except the gizzard), a piece of and cl*? fZS ,°f an, eS&< a ■ittle parsley and sbalot; chop these small, and mix with them pounded spice, pepper, and salt lake some slices of bread half an inch thick, and divide them into pieces fil'letf algier’ bUt ,tLe Sara0 shaPe as the o Ihfb Ulk°-a wrk round each about the eighth of an inch from the edge, and fry them of a clear gold colour in butted nm ‘' 0U:1'SC00P °Ut fh° Part marhed, and put into the space thus left some of the abova farce, and either bake or boil the croutons for a quarter of an hour; in the mean time toss up the fillets, and when ready to serve, lay one on each of the croutons, and send them to table, with a sauce made as directed for the Fillets Sautes, with the addition of a bit of glaze. Woodcocks (billets of) a la Provencule.* —Prepare the fillets as directed for the Saute,- season them with pepper, salt, four spices, and cover them with oil; add a clove of garlic pounded, toss them up, and then keep them hot. Put some oil also to the remains of the birds, a clove of o-arlic a pinch of parsley leaves, two cloves, six shalots, and a bay leaf; when these have had a few turns, add a little roux, a glass of white wine, three of stock, and reduce the sauce to half, take off the fat, and strain it. Lay the fillets on a dish en cou- ronne, with a glazed crouton between each • put some lemon peel and juice to the sauce, and pour it over. Woodcock (Fillets of) Sautes.*—Take the fillets from three brace of woodcocks, cut them neatly, and put them into a tossin°-- pan, with salt, pepper, and a little rose- mary in powder; pour some melted butter over, and set them on a very brisk fire, turn them as soon as one side is done and do not let them be done too much - then drain, and lay them in a dish en cou- ronne, with a crouton between each fillet, i ut the remnants of the birds into a stew- pan with half a glass of white wine, a bay leaf, and a clove ; sweat them down till reduced to a glaze, then add another fflxf"larlle ffr T wiuV glass of stock six ladiesful of espagnole, and let these leduce to half; then strain and pour it aldVerte be kePl hot)> WORMWOOD CrSme (Liqueur). *- Distil in the bain-marie the zests of two oranges, and half a pound of fresh- gathered wormword tops, in a gallon of brandy, which will produce nearly half tie quantity of liqueur. Dissolve four pounds of sugar in ns many pints of filtered river water; mix this syrup with the li- bottle it^11 U tbr°Ugb 11 Jelly"bag, and 1EAST (to make).—Boil for half an Hour two quarts of water, thickened with about three spoonsful of fine Hour, and sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown sugar; when almost cold, put it 2 m 2ZES 532 YEL nto a jug, adding four spoonsful of fresh yeast; shake it well together, let it stand uncovered near the fire for a day, to fer- ment. There will be a thin liquor on the top, pour this off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. To make a half- peck loaf you should use a quarter of a pint of the above. Yeast Dumplings.—Make a very light dough with yeast, the same as for bread, but with milk instead of water, add salt; set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for half an hour, or an hour, to rise ; in the mean time set on the fire a large saucepan of hot water, and as soon as it boils, roll up the dough into small balls, and put them nto the boiling water; keep them conti- nually boiling for ten minutes, then take them out and. serve them immediately, with wine sauce over them. To ascertain whether they are sufficiently boiled, stick a fork into one, and if it comes out clean, it is done enough. Some think the best manner of eating them is by dividing them from the top by two forks, as the}’’ become heavy by their own steam, and eat them immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. YELLOW Glaze.*—Make a glaze, with a quarter of a pound of fine sugar in pow- der, the white of an egg, to which add by degrees as much lemon juice as may be necessary; when sufficiently beaten up, (and the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), add to it a small quantity of in- fusion of saffron, strained, and the yellow rind of one or two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scraped and pounded; take care, however, not to put too much of the latter, lest the glaze should be bitter. YORKSHIRE Pudding.*—Mix two spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk and three eggs, well beaten, add a spoonful of salt, and a little ginger grated. Butter the pan, and put in the mixture; when browned by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, that that may be browned also. It should be made in a square pan, and served to table cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon a dish. The richness of the pudding is increased ac- cording to the number of eggs you may choose to put in. ZESTS.—Zest (a term of art, used by confectioners) is the peel of oranges, le- mons, or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in small slips or zests, as thin as possible.EXPLANATION Of some of the Terms made use of in the foregoing Pages, Attelets—Small silver skewers. Baba—A French sweet yeast cake. Bain-marie—See the Dictionary. Bouquet—A bunch of parsley and scallions tied up to put in soups, &c. Bouquet garni, or Assaisonnd—The same, with the addition of cloves and aromatic herbs. Bourguignote—A ragout of truffles. Braise—See Dictionary. Brioche—A French yeast cake. Buisson (en)—A whimsical method of dressing up pastry, &c. Capilotade—A common hash of poultry. Civet—A hash of game or wild fowl. Compiegne—A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, See. Sec. Compote—A fine mixed ragout to garnish white poultry, &c.: also a method of stewing fruit with syrup for desserts. Compotier—A dish amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the compote. Couronne (en)—To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. Court or short (to stew)—To reduce a sauce very thick. Croustade—Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to contain minces, Sec. Croutons—Bread cut in various shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. Borez-—-To wash pastry, Sec. with yolk of egg well beaten. Borure—Yolks of eggs well beaten. Entrees—Are dishes served at the commencement, or during the first course of the dinner. Entremets—Small ornamental dishes, served in the second and third courses. Financiere—An expensive, highly-flavoured, mixed ragout. Flan—A French custard. Glaze (to fall to a)—To reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhere to the meat. Glaze Is usually made from a reduced consomme, or juices from the bottoms of braised white meats ; it should be preserved in jelly-pots. Glaze, Glace, or Ice—Is composed of white of egg beaten with powder sugar. Godiveau—A common veal forcemeat. Gras (au) This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. ratm A layer of some particular article is spread over a silver, or any other dish that will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it burns to it. ors d oeuvre A small dish, served during the first course. nalelets—The same as Attelets. Lard (to)—lo stick bacon, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, &c.; it is done by means of a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square, and hollow; the lardon is put into this hollow, tlie point is then inserted into the meat, and on being- drawn out, leaves the lardon standing up in its proper place. Lardons 1 he pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of lard- ing meat, Sec. Sec. Larding-pin A utensil by moans of which meat, Ac. is larded. muon A finish with yolks of eggs and cream, for ragouts and sauces. Madeleines—Cakes made of the same composition as pound-cakes. Maigre (ait)—Soups, Sec. dressed without meat. Marinade—A prepared pickle for meat, fish, Ac.COOKERY TERMS EXPLAINED. 534 Mask—To coyer completely. Nouilles— An Italian paste, resembling macaroni; it is flat, instead of being in pipes. Panada—Bread soaked in milk, used principally for quenelles and fine farces. Passer—To fry lightly. Patg—A raised crust pie. Poele—A light braise for white meats. The difference between this and the braise is, that in the former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be so much done as in the latter. Potage—Another term for soup. Purge—Any meat, fish, or other article, boiled to a pulp, and rubbed through a sieve. Quenelles—A fine farce ; it is generally poached when used. Roux—Butter and flour amalgamated together over the fire to a proper consistence, either white or hrown. Salmi—A highly-seasoned hash. Sautei—To fry very lightly. Sabotiere, or Sorbetiere—A pewter or tin vessel, in which are placed the moulds con- taining the substance to be frozen. Tammy—A silk sieve, or tammy cloth. . Tourner, or Turn—To stir a sauce; also to pare and cut roots, vegetables, and fruits, neatly. ^ Tourte—A puff-paste pie. Vanner—To take up sauce, or other liquid, in a spoon, and turn it over quickly.The Asterisk * denotes the Months when the Article opposite to which it is placed is in Season ARTICLES IN SEASON536 ARTICLES IN SEASON. -Dec 1 * * * * * * * * * * * Nov. * * -* * * * Oct. * -£ * * * * * a, * * * * * * -* * * * * £ * * * * * * * * * * ■3> * * * ■fc •* * * £ | June *- * * * * * * May i}? * * •Hr * * * * -* * * — 3 * £ •S * * * * * * Mar * * * * * * * * Feb. * * * ■Jfj * * * * * Jan. * * * * * * 3fr * * ' 1 CARROTS . . | y) > 3 -1 -3 < J J 72 a —i as 3$ 3 £ 3 -i —i > ■s-> —4 J ' n H 3 Z 2 s J 72 z 3 j —< —H —1 J * ■H ■H J 72 3 A A J 3 J 3 3 J 72 D z, —i 3 3 J /: 33 < —1 J 72 W — —- 3 3 33 Z 3 72 -i ■* <1 N-* 3 y: y /: /: -J 3 as 3 2 _2 J 3 J 72 Z < —« 33 "’i J 1 72 33 < e —1 h z I < GO -3 S5 -v-> 5! 3 ; 3f /2 < J J 3 3 Z —1 z J A 3 3 7 A A A -> 72 3 3 3ARTICLES IN SEASON. 5 37- y Q * * * * * **= ■Sfc * [ Nov. * * * * * * * * — Oct. * * * * * * * * * * •vi Jr zq & * * * * X * * * * Aug. * * * * * * * * * * & S * * * * ■& * * * June * * * * * May * * * * ** Apr. * •* Mar dj * Feb. * * * * * Jan. * d d g d 1 r^4 1 FIELDFARES . | A 3 —* d yj H -vj -J -H * A d d 3 Z 3 3 -1 Jfc 73 -1 -> 5 d d d 3 d '/) d d 3 <u $ d A d d 3 A Z -H d d 3 3 GOOSEBERRIES . | % A d d i 3 ; GREENGAGES . | GROUSE. GUDGEONS . . | -/} H d z d 3 3 A d 3 3 3 3 < 3 * d d d —H -H A 3 z 3 d d 3 1 HORSERADISH . d d d § d 3 < —. ! JOHN DUREY . Z> eo 53 3 3 % < dARTICLES IN SEASON, 538 Dec. Hi * H? Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Nov. * Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Oct. — Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Sept. Hr * Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi sP Hi Hi -Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi * Hi -Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi * Hi June Hi •& Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi May * Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi — Apr. Hi Hi Hi -Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi * Hi Mar Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Feb. Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi % Hi — gc 3 £ s— CO /“"V ■— Hi *• co rh 2 < O Jan. -* Hi -*■ Hi Hi Hi Hi Hi * * LAMB (House) . \ LAMPREYS m 'A. < P | LEEKS : LETTUCES . j LEVERET 1 LOBSTER i MACKEREL co -1 a cs3 "H 2 MELON . H 2 »—< in W •"H MULBERRIES MULLET . uO P p o IT. P V3 »—i <5 o o P t—1 »—• w P r5 I MUTTON GO £ *—< § P C/2 H P f * £ CO g 2 m 2 w-1 2 o OYSTERS .ARTICLES IN SEASON- 539 Jan. Feb. Mar Apr. % ST IP -3> g J1 * * # * * i >< « l-J m C/3 W o Q i—i »5 H Ph cn O Ph IPl, c/3 H « hP t> Oh Oh K cn H ►—« CQ m 3 On 3 £ C/3 H ►—i a a540 ARTICLES IN SEASON.ARTICLES IN SEASON, 541 o <u Q * * * * * * * * * & * £ * * * * Sir * * * * Oct. * Sfr * * -* Sir * Sept. * * * * Aug. * * * * 3 * * * * * June Hi sir * Sfr * May Sfc' * * £ * Sfc * sir ' * * Mar t # * * ' * ■fc * * Feb. * & * * * * *. Hi Jan. * Hi * * * * * * Hi t ; g o w o P5 IX Eh i/3 1 TARRAGON XI A TH -H -H u 25 x H A u < 25 25 U -H < M O !( "|E 1 ■H XI 0 31 i /} 3 -M X *5 H ■H o xq -A . >H X 25 X H /q 5 L * x X 25 X -)E n 1< §; D H H A > 5s o a —•* D /3 —( s *3 > o 3 5 D 5 x > 5| I! r /3 V, ni ; 5 r g D X S H i n | A J D X D D SC, WHITINQ, BEAUFORT HOUSE, STRAND.* >■ 4 / Til in ridttBTflM'