S( ^<PoaMjlo ch. J], lh» j LSLsOCVVU ^"’2 ij-iiu s.*** CjJxXilLtjt^ 22101425196Med K9031Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https ://arch i ve. org/detai Is/b2805507xTEMPTING DISHESWORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS 1 Those excellent cookery books that have made Mrs. De Salis an authority in every kitchen that has any pretensions to high art.’ Scotsman. SOUPS AND DRESSED EISII A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. OYSTERS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. iy. 6rf. DRESSED GAME AND TOULTRY A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. ENTRIES A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6cl. PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. SWEETS AND SUPPER DISIIES A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. (d. CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Crown 8VO. IS. (id. GARDENING A LA MODE. Crown Svo. Tart I. Vegetables, is. 6d. Part II, Fruits, is. 6d. SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. 6d. DRINKS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. 6d. TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. NATIONAL VIANDS A LA MODE. Crown Svo. is. 6d. FLORAL DECORATIONS : Suggestions and Descrip- tions. Crown Svo. is. 6d. WRINKLES AND NOTIONS FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. NEW-LAID EGGS: Hints for Amateur Poultry Rearers. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. DOGS : a Manual for Amateurs. Crown Svo. is. 6d. LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO. 39 Paternoster Row, London. New York and Bombay.TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES BY MRS DE SALIS AUTHOR OF ‘SAVOURIES A LA MODE’ ETC. ' II fo manger,' that's the French saying, and mangering is as nei essary to me as it is to a Frenchman, or more so' Joeling, Bleak House SIXTH EDITION LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON NEW YORK AND BOMBAY 1897 All rights reserved.anz&s o WELLCOME INSTITUTE 1 L library I I Coll. welMOmec j Call {No. _($T ( ~7 jPREFACE. THIS little work is not intended as a cookery book in the usual acceptance of the word ; it is merely what the title indicates, viz. a few tempting and in- expensive recipes within the scope of everybody’s cookery, and which I have been induced to collect from many requests to do so. The plainest of general servants should be able to manage any of these dishes, and so vary the meals of those families having small incomes, whose purses cannot afford entrees, entremets, and savouries, and who would be glad to have relishing dishes now and then ; and there is no reason why they should be debarred from them, as so many can be made easily and in- expensively. A few persons have remarked that in my a la mode series of Cookery Books (which the public have kindly made so popular) many of the recipes are too extravagant for short purses, but I may mention that in those little volumes there are recipes of all kinds to suit all incomes. A recipe is often pronounced extravagant if the cook sees cream in it; but any cook who knows some- thing of the culinary art would understand that a tablespoonful of cream goes a long way in entreesvi TEMPTING DISHES. and savouries. Those little jugs of cream, price sixpence, sold everywhere now, are invaluable, and when opened they will keep quite fresh if placed in the cool and stood in cold water. If one of these is always kept in the house it will not, I think, be found an expensive luxury. For an illustration : I had the other day a friend or two to dinner, and one of these little jugs of cream sufficed to make six little cremes de volaille with the white sauce ; some was used for salad dressing, a tablespoonful in some soup, a little whipped over some apricot tartlets, and there was just enough left for coffee. A quart mould of cream may be made with one of the shilling jugfuls well whipped. To whip this thick cream a little milk must be added to it. There is also the Cremain Company’s cream, of Stockholm, which keeps for several days after being opened. For ordinary sweet dishes the best Swiss milk is always available ; two tablespoonfuls of it un- diluted will be found very effective instead of cream, and of course saves the sugar, as it is already sweetened. There are many little things that are great aids and boons in the kitchen, such as isin- glassine, used instead of gelatine, tomato vinegar for flavouring, also cruetteen, which is an inexpensive and first-rate condiment to heighten the flavour of soups, gravies, &c.; and above all I advise most strongly those who have to buy new stew- pans, &c., to have Brcden’s patent nickel steel hollowware; it is so clean and so durable, and is especially adapted to close ranges. I never my- self use the corrugated iron saucepans ; they wear out so constantly, and the generality of cooks knock them about so that they soon become unusable, andPREFACE. vii they can never be relined, and arc therefore unwhole- some. Upon all matters of cookery I shall be very pleased to give advice, and to explain any of the recipes in any of my books which may present difficulties to the cook, on receipt of a stamped directed envelope; and if I can help the fine art of cookery, which cookery has become, by so doing I shall indeed have achieved a success. HARRIET A. DE SALTS. IlAMrTON Lea, Sutton, July 1890.TEMPTING DISHES. Celery Soup. Take the white part of four heads of celery and cut into pieces an inch long and put them into a saucepan with two onions peeled and sliced thin, four ounces of lean ham cut into dice, and a pint of nicely flavoured white stock. Boil until the vegetables are sufficiently soft to pulp them, press them through a sieve, and return them to the saucepan; add three pints more stock, two ounces of butter, a seasoning of salt, white pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of flour which have been moistened to a thin smooth batter with a little cold stock or water. Boil again for half an hour, then skim if necessary, and add a teacupful of boiling cream or milk. Italian Soup. Cut the meat from a knuckle of veal; break up the bones and make a broth of them ; take four or five slices of the lean of bacon (ham is better if handy) and lay them at the bottom of the stewpan, and upon them put the meat from the knuckle, with four carrots and three turnips sliced, a few pepper- B2 TEMPTING DISHES. corns, a large onion stuck with four cloves and some celery leaves (or celery seed) ; cover down closely, and stew till the gravy is drawn out and the vegeta- bles tender ; then pour over the broth made from the knuckle-bones and cover entirely. Add six spoon- fuls of rice and stew for four hours ; pass the soup through a sieve and add vermicelli before serving. Kidney Soup. Cut about two pounds of ox-kidney into slices, and then into small neat pieces. Take some flour and season it well with salt and pepper; roll the kidney in this, and then toss them in a little good beef dripping over the fire for ten minutes, then add a turnip, a carrot, the white part of one leek, one onion, and a little outer leaf of celery all cut up fine. To this add a quart and a half (or more) thin stock or cold water. Bring to the boil, then simmer very gently for an hour and a half to two hours, skim carefully, when it will be ready to be served. When celery is not in season use celery seed. Onion Soup. Take medium-sized onions, one large parsnip, one carrot, one small turnip, a few peppercorns, two cloves, half a teaspoonful of salt, a rasher of ham or bacon (lean), a little bit of celery, or the seed when celery is not in season, a pint of milk, and about a quart or a little more of stock. Pre- pare the vegetables in the usual way and cut them into very small pieces ; chop the ham and put all into a large saucepan. Let all boil for a few minutes, throw in a little salt and skim thoroughly. In two hours the vegetables ought to be soft enough toTEMPTING DISHES. 3 pass through a fine sieve with the assistance of the liquid ; then return to a clean saucepan with the milk and stir till boiling. If not sufficiently thick one tablespoonful of cornflour may be mixed with a little cold milk, added to the soup and boiled for five minutes. Serve with fried bread. Puree of Poultry or Game. Take any remains of roast or boiled poultry or game that there may be in the larder, carefully free from bones and skin ; put the latter into a sauce- pan with an onion, some mixed herbs (powdered) and a teaspoonful of white stock or water, and boil gently until the liquid is reduced to half the quan- tity. In the meantime chop the meat very finely and put into a mortar with a piece of fresh butter, and salt and pepper to taste, and pound it to a smooth paste, moistening it with a little of the liquor from the bones, &c. Rub the paste through a fine sieve and put in the saucepan with the re- duced gravy strained and six tablespoonfuls of milk, and thicken with a mixture of cornflour cooked in butter. Stir over the fire till quite hot. Potato Soup. Take two pounds of potatoes weighed after being washed and peeled, the outer sticks of some celery, and a good-sized onion. Cut all up small, and put into a saucepan with a heaped-up table- spoonful of fresh butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover the pan closely and stew over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring4 TEMPTING DISHES. frequently to prevent their sticking or becoming coloured. Then pour over three pints of white stock and simmer all until the vegetables are soft, pass them through a fine sieve into a clean sauce- pan, add a little more salt if necessary, a breakfast- cupful of hot milk, and a large tablespoonful of minced parsley. Boil up at once and serve very hot. Soup a la Russe. Make about a dozen or more very small force- meat balls, by mincing very finely half a pound of lean veal and three ounces of beef suet. Put these ;into a mortar with a little salt, pepper, minced ^parsley, and a pinch of mixed herbs. Mix and pound these to a smooth paste, moisten with a well-beaten egg, and make this preparation up ;4nto the required number of balls. Fry these well in a little boiling dripping, drain them, and put aside till required. Chop very finely three small onions and one small cabbage, fry them in a sauce- pan with two ounces of butter till lightly coloured, then mix in as smoothly as possible two table- spoonfuls of flour. Pour on it about two quarts of nicely flavoured stock and stir over the fire till the soup boils, draw the saucepan on one side and allow the contents to simmer gently for thirty minutes or till the vegetables are quite soft, cut a nice slice of cooked ham or lean bacon into small neat dice, and place them with the forcemeat balls at the bottom of the soup-tureen, pour over the boiling liquid and let it stand for five minutes, then stir the soup round and serve. A little finely chopped tarragon (if to be had) sprinkled in is an improvement.TEMPTING DISHES. 5 Sheep’s Head Broth. Take out the brains and wash every part of the head well. Pierce the eyes and wash the skin well with the liquor which exudes from it. Scrape out the holes where the eyes have been, then put the head and trotters in a tub of clean water with a little soda and salt. Let them soak for some hours, then take them out and scrape them well. Put them into the pot with a gallon of water, a teacupful of green peas (when in season) and three- quarters of a teacupful of barley. Boil for three- quarters of an hour. Add half a turnip cut in slices, half a carrot, parsnip, and cabbage, cut very small. Boil for an hour ; add leeks, celery, parsley cut small, and boil for another hour. Brodetto of Fish. Put some salad oil and some slices of onion into a saucepan, let the onion become a nice colour, then add some parsley and claret, or instead of claret some vinegar and water, and when it boils up add different kinds of fish. Season with pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer gently till done. Toast some slices of bread and place them in a deep dish and serve the fish with the sauce on them. Brochet of Smelts. Melt some butter and spread it on a dish, and dredge raspings of bread on it, season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley and shalots. Over the smelts pour a glass of wine (this can be omitted), a little Harvey and anchovy sauces, and some ofTEMPTING DISHES. 6 the above dressing of butter. Put them in the oven for a quarter of an hour, serve quite hot on a napkin and garnish with lemon and fried parsley. Eel au Gratin. Put some oyster sauce at the bottom of a pie- dish, then a layer of sliced eel, seasoned with pepper and a dash of nutmeg. Repeat the layers of fish and sauce till the dish is filled. Cover with fine bread-crumbs, put little tabs of butter here and there, and bake for half an hour. Eels Stewed. Cut the eels into pieces about three inches long; stew them gently in a little broth or stock with a teaspoonful of sweet herbs. When tender remove the eels and strain the stock, season with a little pepper and salt and a dessertspoonful of ketchup ; and, if possible, some port-wine dregs ; add also a little finely chopped parsley. Thicken the stock with a little brown thickening, skim off any fat, warm up the eels in the stock, and serve with some fried bread. Fish Quenelles. Remove all skin and bones from any good cold fish ; pound say five ounces in a mortar till fine. Put the bones in a saucepan with a little water, pepper and salt, to make stock. When sufficiently done, strain it, and when cool soak in it two ounces of stale bread-crumbs, squeeze it out, stir over the fire in a small pan till dry without burning ; turn it into a basin and beat into it the yolk of an egg.7 TEMPTING DISHES. When cold mix the fish into it, add a little piece of butter, salt, pepper, a grate of a nutmeg, and one whole egg. Shape the mixture into ovals like eggs with two tablespoons, and poach them in boiling water. Sauce can be served with them or not. Haddock Soufflds. Have some puff paste patty cases, as for oyster patties, spread anchovy butter all round inside them, put in some dried haddocks, cut up very finely, and place on the top of each a cheese souffle mixture ; place in the oven and serve very quickly and hot. Mackerel with Black Butter. Take the mackerel and soak it for a couple of hours in oil, seasoned with pepper and salt, and then broil it, basting with the oil. For sauce melt a tablespoonful of butter in a fryingpan till quite hot, fry some parsley in it and a tablespoonful of vinegar and two of stock ; boil up and pour over the mackerel, and serve very hot. Mussels a la Rochelle. Steep some mussels in oiled butter with a little lemon-juice or tarragon vinegar, cayenne, and an idea of shalot, then roll them separately in fine bread-crumbs, next in beaten egg, and then again in bread-crumbs, and fry a golden yellow. Salmon (cold remains). Butter a stewpan and put in one or two small sliced onions and a handful of finely cut vegetables,s TEMPTING DISHES. as used for Julienne soup. Lay in the salmon cut in steaks, add a gill of stock and a glass of white wine (but it can be well made without). Stew the fish in this gravy for half an hour or till it boils. Strain the gravy when the fish is lifted out and thicken with butter and flour, add some seasoning and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, which pour over the fish ; strew some capers over and serve. Fillets of Sole a l’Espagnole. Bake the fillets for twenty minutes; when cooked lay them flat on a dish and pour the following sauce over them : Cut up a Spanish onion in thin slices and mince it. Fry the onion in butter till quite cooked without its taking colour, then add some tomatoes, which have been peeled and the pips removed (there should be double as much tomato as onion), add pepper, salt, and a little Nepaul pepper. Stir well on the fire till the mixture is dried up a little, but not too much. Make a heap of this on a dish, and round it arrange the fillets of sole. Strew a little finely minced parsley over all and serve. Sole au Gratin. Take a skinned sole, cut off the fins, wash and dry it in a cloth. Prick it with a knife both sides, take a sprig of parsley, half a shalot and mush- rooms, chop them all up finely, butter a baking- tin and sprinkle half the chopped-up mixture over it, lay the sole on it, sprinkle in the remainder over it, and add a squeeze of lemon-juice and one ounce of butter cut into small pieces, and over all twoTEMPTING DISHES. 9 tablespoonfuls of glaze ; put the dish in the oven for twenty minutes to half an hour, and then sprinkle over it some brown bread-crumbs and serve. Fillets of Sole a l’ltalienne. Bake the fillets for twenty minutes, lay them flat on a dish and pour the following sauce over them : Mince a couple of shalots quite fine and fry them to a pale straw colour, add two or three mushrooms finely minced, a little chopped parsley and the liquor in which the fillets were cooked. Let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, add a little salt and pepper, melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan and mix with it a little flour. Turn the sauce into this, let it give one boil up and it is ready. Fillets of Sole a la Reine. Take some fillets of sole, spread them on one side with a layer of stuffing made of bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper, salt and cayenne, and a little beaten egg. Roll up the fillets of sole and tie each one round with tape, boil them in water with a little salt till tender, drain them and put them aside. Make a white sauce with a little stock thickened with flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold milk, add a small lump of butter, two cloves, pepper and salt, and a dust of coralline pepper ; let this simmer till flavoured; strain, put back in the saucepan, add a spoonful of raw cream and the beaten yolk of an egg. Put the cooked fillets of sole in this sauce to get quite hot, but it must not boil after the cream and egg are added. RemoveTEMPTING DISHES. IO the tape carefully, and dish the fillets set upright with the sauce round them. Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms. Take a piece of rumpsteak, cut it in slices three- eighths of an inch thick and trim them to shape and size of a mutton cutlet. Melt some butter into a baking-tin, lay the fillets in this, and let them stand in a warm place for an hour or two. Then take them out and fry them in a very hot butter or good drip- ping, turning them so as to let both sides colour. Melt a tablespoonful of butter and mix it with a tablespoonful of flour. Moisten with some good stock free from fat, add a little colouring (Parisiennc is best and cheap) and about half a basketful of button mushrooms neatly trimmed and washed. Let the sauce cook till the mushrooms are done, add the juice of half a lemon, pour the sauce on the dish, heap the mushrooms in the centre and arrange the fillets round in a crown shape. Hashed Beef with Tomato Sauce. Make a tomato sauce by removing the pips from each tomato and the watery substance, put them into a saucepan with plenty of butter, pepper, salt, a bayleaf and some thyme, add a few spoon- fuls of either stock or gravy, keep stirring over the fire till all is reduced to a pulp, when it should be passed through a sieve and allowed to get cold. Cut thin slices of roast beef, which should be underdone, trim them as near as possible to the same size, lay them in a saucepan, sprinkle pepper and salt over and pour on the cold sauce. Put the saucepanTEMPTING DISHES. 11 over a gentle fire and let the contents become slowly hot, then serve and garnish with fried sippets round the dish. Beefsteak Pudding. Make a paste of six ounces of chopped suet and three-quarters of a pound of flour, butter a pudding- basin and line it with the suet. Flatten some rumpsteak and cut it into small pieces, also some ox-kidney. Put a good handful of flour on a board, well pepper and salt it, then roll each piece of steak and kidney in it, add some stock, cover with paste, tic it over with a buttered and floured cloth and boil for four hours. Stewed Beefsteak. Brown one pound of steak slightly in a fiyingpan, then place it in a stewpan with a carrot, a turnip, and a large onion all sliced ; cover the meat with sufficient stock. Let it stew very gently and sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it before serving. Thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour and add a few port-wine dregs, a little mushroom catsup and Worcester sauce, and send to table with it carrots and turnips cut into shapes and cooked in stock. Beef Trifles. Take a pound of cold roast beef, mince it very finely, then put it into a basin and mix with it a seasoning of salt and pepper, three ounces of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of finely grated horse- radish, six tablcspoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs and a tcaspoonful of minced onion. Mix theseTEMPTING DISHES. 12 ingredients thoroughly, then moisten well with beaten eggs. Put the mixture into small well- buttered cups or moulds, bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, then turn out and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and serve with or without horseradish sauce. Boned Leg of Mutton. After removing the bone from the mutton make some parsley forcemeat with bread-crumbs, a little lean bacon, two shalots, and fill up the hole where the bone was taken from, cut away any extra fat, and sew it up. Bind it and tie up compactly and roast with great care. Remove the binding and serve with good thick brown gravy. Calf’s Brains and Black Butter. Soak the brains in vinegar and water and put in a little piece of thyme. Fry some round pieces of bread for about twenty minutes. Place some of the brains, after draining them, on each piece of fried bread, make a little hole in each piece of brain and place a piece of red tongue in each. Pour black butter over and serve. The black butter is made by taking one ounce of butter and melting it in a frying- pan till it turns a rich brown colour, then add half a teaspoonful of chopped capers, half a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, and the same quantity of mushroom catsup and a little pepper. This can be used thickened if preferred. Calf’s Head Fritters. Cut some slices from a calf’s head (cold) and mask with tomato sauce, dip them into batter and fry a nice golden colour. Serve crisped parsley as a garnish.TEMPTING DISHES. 1J Chicken Cutlets. Trim the remains of a cold roast or boiled fowl into nice cutlets. Cut pieces of bread the same size and shape. Fry the bread to a pale brown in butter and put in the oven with the door open to keep warm. Dip the cutlets in melted butter mixed with the beaten yolk of an egg, roll in bread-crumbs, season with salt and pepper, and fry for five minutes. Serve each cutlet on a piece of fried bread. Fried Chicken. Cut a chicken into pieces, lay it in salt and water, which should be changed several times. Roll each piece of chicken in flour and fry in very hot butter or clarified dripping. Season with pepper and salt and a trifle of cayenne, and serve hot. Croustades of Chicken. Pick the remains of a cold boiled chicken free from bones and skin and pound thoroughly with a third of its quantity of white sauce, season with salt and pepper, and pass through a wire sieve. Work this in a stewpan with half a gill of cream over the fire with a wooden spoon till it is hot and light; if it should be too soft stir in the yolk of an egg ; fill the croustade case and cover the top with hard boiled yolk of egg passed through a wire sieve, on which sprinkle a little chopped parsley. Garnish round with crisped parsley. Make the croustade case with two ounces of flour, the yolk of an egg and a pinch of salt worked into a smooth paste with cold water, roll out these, and then stamp out as manyTEMPTING DISHES. M rounds as possible with a good-sized plain cutter, gather up the rough pieces and make them into a ball. Now roll out one of the rounds of paste much thinner and place it in the mould, dip the ball of dough into flour and press it in the lined mould, trim off rough edges, remove the ball and fill with rice that has been mixed with a third part suet. Fill as many croustades as required and bake them a pale colour. Stewed Duck. Cut a duck into joints and fry a light brown in butter. Put them in a stcwpan with half a pint of gravy, a couple of large onions, a little salt, parsley, two sage leaves, and a sprig of marjoram. Cover and stew till tender. Remove the onions and herbs, add a little pepper ; skim ; mix a little flour into the gravy, stir and boil. Curried Eggs. Fry two sliced onions in butter, then add a tablespoonful of curry powder, and fry this also for a minute or two ; then pour the whole into a stew- pan with a pint of broth. Let all stew till the onion is perfectly tender, then mix a small cup of cream (or milk thickened with arrowroot and slightly sweetened, or a cup of cocoanut milk), and simmer all together for five minutes. Cut six hard-boiled eggs into quarters and let them heat thoroughly, but do not let them boil; run the sauce through a hair sieve before putting in the eggs. Egg Cutlets. Boil hard six eggs, and when cold and shelled cut them into rather thick slices; dip each slice15 TEMPTING DISHES. into beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, and minced parsley ; fry them a light brown, and do not let them lie in the fryingpan an instant after they are cooked. Drain them free from fat and lay them on a very hot dish, arranged neatly, and pour some boiling gravy over them. Egg Kromeskies. Poach three eggs in water a little salted, with a tablespoonful of vinegar in it; drain the eggs, sprinkle them with a little salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg. Dip them in batter and fry in boiling lard for one minute only. Epigram of Lamb and Peas. Place a breast of lamb in a stewpan, with a little water, three onions, one carrot, some outer sticks of celery, a little pepper, salt, parsley, and sweet herbs to taste. When cooked enough to allow it, pull out all the bones and put the breast between two dishes with a heavy weight on it. When cold cut it into small cutlets, egg and bread- crumb them, fry them a nice colour, and serve with some peas in the centre of the dish, or, if pre- ferred, a puree made by boiling a pint of peas in salt and water, a slice of onion, a sprig of parsley, and a few mint leaves. When cooked pass it through a sieve and moisten with some stock, put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and work it over the fire till quite hot. Haricot Mutton. Cut up part of a best end of neck of mutton into chops, or the whole if required ; trim off most of theTEMPTING DISHES. iS fat from the chops and fry them a delicate brown ; just flour them slightly before frying, and then put them into the saucepan ; fry a large carrot, cut in slices a turnip, a parsnip, two onions, add a stick or two of celery or some celery seed, and a handful of parsley. Season well with salt and pepper and a little mushroom catsup or Worcester sauce, and place them over the meat; add some boiling stock to cover, and let them simmer very gently for a couple of hours. Then take up the meat and vegetables, cut the latter up small, and place it in a deep dish. Thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, pour it over the meat and serve very hot. Kidney Fritters. Make a breakfast-cupful of nice frying batter, and stir in a tablespoonful of finely minced onion, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, and a small pinch of cayenne. Take half-a-dozen sheep’s kidneys, re- move the skin, and cut each one into three or four slices; season these with a little salt, dip them into the batter—which ought to be thick enough to stick to the meat—and fry in boiling fat till suffi- ciently cooked and coloured a nice brown ; drain well and serve piled up with a little parsley powdered over the top and a few sprigs of parsley placed round about. Stewed Ox-Kidney. Cut the kidney into pieces about the size of half a sheep’s kidney; brown the outside quickly in a fryingpan with a very little fat or butter; then place them in some good dark gravy to stew very gently. Fry a few small onions in the frying-TEMPTING DISHES. 17 pan, after browning the outside of the kidneys, till the onions are nice and brown, and then add these to the stewed kidneys ; season with pepper and salt. These cannot be stewed too gently or slowly; they must on no account boil or they will be spoilt. Stewed Kidneys. Skin and parboil kidneys, simmer till tender ; slice, and toss them in a saucepan with butter ; add pepper and salt and a slight dredging of flour. When the flour is well amalgamated with the butter, moisten with a little stock; add wine, a little minced parsley, and a few drops of Worcester sauce. Let the whole simmer a few minutes and serve. It takes about an hour and a half to simmer the kidneys. Kidneys and Tomatoes. Throw three kidneys in boiling water ; having skinned and split them open, pepper and salt them. Slice four tomatoes and put them into a saucepan, with a sliced onion, a gill of stock, salt and pepper, and stew for fifteen minutes. Put a quarter of a pound of butter or dripping in a fryingpan; put in the kidney and later the tomatoes, and fry. Pour into a buttered pie-dish, cover with bread-crumbs and egg over, and place in oven for ten minutes. Kromeskies. Take some pieces of meat or poultry and mix them with good brown sauce that is firm when cold ; fold up a small quantity of this in a slice of fat bacon, which must be cut as thin as possible CTEMPTING DISHES. 18 and the ends closed, so that the sauce cannot escape whilst the kromeskies are fried. After wrapping them in the bacon dip them into batter and fry to a nice golden colour. Then arrange them on a dish in a pyramid and serve with fried parsley. Lamb Cutlets au Parmesan. Take the best end of a neck of lamb, take six cutlets and partly fry them, then steep them in a sauce made of two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, in which is mixed four spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and then coat them twice over with egg and bread-crumbs, make the surface very smooth and even, fry them a golden brown, dish them up in a circle and garnish with fried parsley. Lamb’s Fry. Parboil the sweetbreads. Throw them into cold water, and when cold trim them. Flour all the pieces and fry in the fryingpan in a little dripping or in the fat of the fried bacon, which should be served with the fry. When nicely browned pour a little water into the dripping-pan and thicken it with a little flour. Throw in a little chopped parsley and season with pepper and salt; it takes about ten minutes to fry. Lamb’s Head Curry. Put a cleansed lamb’s head in a stewpan with sufficient water to cook it, having previously blanched it. Let it stew slowly till the meat falls from the bones. When cool cut it into small19 TEMPTING DISHES. pieces. Fry a small onion in two ounces of butter to a light brown, add a tablespoonful of curry powder and half a spoonful of curry paste ; mix all together with half a pint of good gravy or stock, put in the meat and let it stew gently for half an hour. Stew the brains in water five minutes, chop them very fine, mixing with them a handful of bread- crumbs, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, bind together with an egg, and make them into small round balls ; egg and bread-crumb, then fry a pale brown ; serve the curry with the balls round and boiled rice served separately. Lobster Cutlets. Take all the meat from the lobster and cut it up in little pieces, with a small piece of onion, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a tcaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a dust of cayenne and a piece of thin lemon-peel the size of the thumbnail; pound all in a mortar till smooth, and mix in sufficient lobster butter to make the whole a bright red, then add butter till the mixture can be easily moulded; after moulding, flour them, then egg and bread-crumb them till of a delicate brown ; stick in each a little piece of the tips of the small claws to represent a cutlet bone ; serve with fried parsley in the centre. Lobster butter is made by pounding the spawn with some butter in the mortar. Lobster Pancakes. Divide a lobster into as nice pieces as possible, dip each into good frying butter, adding to it a little cayenne pepper and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Fry in hot fat as quickly as possible.20 TEMPTING DISHES. Macaroni Quenelle. Take one ounce of macaroni, four ounces of bread-crumbs, two eggs, half a pint of milk, a tea- spoonful of minced parsley, a pinch of mixed herbs, a dust of cayenne and salt to taste, two ounces of melted butter, and two spoonfuls of chopped ham ; boil the macaroni till cooked, cut it into small pieces, boil the milk and pour on the bread-crumbs and soak for five minutes, add the macaroni, herbs, eggs, melted butter and ham, steam in a well- buttered basin for an hour, and serve with brown mushroom sauce over it. I Meat Fritters. Take any remains of a chicken or veal, or even mutton or lamb, mince very finely; season highly with onion, chopped parsley, and a little mixed sweet herbs. Make all this into a liquid state by mixing it in a little pale stock and milk, then place this mixture into a soup plate and let it get cold and set into a firm jelly. Cut little pieces out about an inch and a half in diameter, flour them well, dip them into batter, and then plunge them into smoking-hot fat. These are also very good made with calf’s liver, seasoned with shalot or garlic, for those who do not object to the flavour. Meat Toast. Take any sort of meat that has been served at table, cut it into small square pieces, and make a well-thickened ragout of it; when cold, put in the yolks of two raw eggs, arrange the meat upon someai TEMPTING DISHES. crumb of bread, and draw a knife dipped in a beaten egg over it. Grate some bread upon the whole, fry, and serve with clear sauce. Mushroom Cutlets. Remove the peel and stalk from a dozen large mushrooms, scrape out the gills, wash and chop them fine, mix with them sufficient good sauce to bind them together, add a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper, the yolks of two raw eggs, and place on the stove in a saucepan to come to boil- ing-point without actually boiling; turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When wanted, divide this into six or eight equal portions with the aid of a palette-knife, add a little flour and form them into cutlets ; then egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish them in a circle with a few peas in the centre and white mushroom sauce round. Mutton Collops. Chop some parsley and one shalot, and get small thin slices, about two inches square, from the chump end of a loin of mutton. Fry the collops alone, till brown on both sides, in a stew- pan with one ounce of dissolved butter. The fire should be brisk, and the collops turned up and down in the butter. When done take them out, put in the parsley and shalot, add a little more butter, and stew for five minutes. Then add a tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of catsup, a little stock, and the juice of half a lemon. Put in the collops, make them hot but do not boil them; pour the sauce over and serve with potato balls.22 TEMPTING DISHES. Mutton-Chops aux Legumes. Trim some mutton-chops and set them to stew gently over the fire, with a slice of butter, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, two or three cloves, and a little bit of garlic ; moisten the whole with a tumbler of stock and the same quantity of ciaret, adding a carrot and a slice of ham. YVhen done skim off the fat and serve the chops with the sauce, the ham and the roots. Garlic and wine may always be omitted when not liked. Mutton-Chops a la Mariniere. Take some loin chops, rather short and thick, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter about the size of an egg, turning them a few times over the fire till they are rather brown, then moisten with a large glass of claret and as much stock, adding a dozen small zvhite onions. Let the whole boil half an hour over a slow fire, then add two rashers of streaky bacon, a carrot and a parsnip cut into bits, a small bunch of fine herbs, some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a sprinkling of vinegar. When the chops are done, and the sauce nearly consumed, dish them for table with the onions round and the pieces of bacon, &c. Mutton-Chops en Robe de Chambre. Put some mutton-chops in a fair quantity of stock, adding a bunch of parsley and green onions. When the chops are done, take them out, skim the fat off the stock, strain, and reduce it to a thick gravy, putting in the chops again for the gravy to23 TEMPTING DISHES. adhere to them, then take them out and leave them to cool. Make a forcemeat with a little piece of fillet of veal, a little bit of beef, two eggs, salt, pepper, parsley, and onions cut small and moistened with milk ; cover each chop with the forcemeat, grate bread over them, and put them into the oven to brown. When they are a good colour drain off the fat and serve with good clear gravy. Onions a l’Etoile. Take a large Spanish onion, core it with the column cutter, then cut it down within two inches of the bottom in divisions like an orange, so that it has somewhat the appearance of a star. Make a mince of beef or mutton in the usual way, flavour it highly, and fill in the onion with it, tying the onion round till it is cooked to prevent the mince falling out. Make a hole in the centre of the mince and put some carrots and turnips, cut in Julienne strips made with a brown sauce, in which a little isinglassine has been mixed. When it is cooked cut the string and dish up with a mush- room puree round it. Pigeons en Capote. Take the number of pigeons required, clean, truss, and stuff them with a mixture made of the chopped livers, parsley, butter, and a few bread- crumbs. Place them in a stewpan with two or three slices of bacon, and stew gently for three- quarters of an hour. Thicken the gravy, and add a couple of tablespoonfuls each of mushroom catsup and port-wine (the port-wine may be omitted). Use stock to stew them in.TEMPTING DISHES. 24 Potato Cutlets. Put some cold boiled potatoes into a basin, beat them to a smooth pulp, and to every pound add one ounce of warmed butter, salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful each of minced parsley and finely chopped onion, and one well-beaten egg. Mix all these together thoroughly, and then allow the mixture to get quite cold, then make it up into neat cutlet shapes. Brush over with beaten egg and coat thickly with grated cheese, and fry in the usual way. When just delicately browned, drain very carefully and arrange the cutlets in two rows down the middle of a hot dish, one cutlet slightly overlapping the other. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. Rabbit Batter Pudding. Place at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish two rabbits cut into pieces, season and sprinkle with chopped parsley and shalot, cover this with a layer of streaky bacon, fill up with batter and bake. Minced Rabbit. Take the remains of a roasted rabbit, cut off all the meat and mince it with a little roast mutton. Break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces and put them into a stewpan with a slice of butter, two shalots, a very small piece of garlic, thyme, and a bayleaf; turn all this a few times over the fire, then shake in a little flour; moisten with a glass of light claret and as much stock, and let it boil half an hour over the fire; strain it off andTEMPTING DISHES. *5 put in the mincemeat, with salt and pepper ; let the whole heat without boiling, and serve hot; garnish with fried sippets. The claret, of course, can be left out when not required. Rabbit a la Poulette. Joint a young rabbit and put it into a stew- pan with sufficient stock to cover it. Season with a little parsley, some sweet herbs, two small onions, and if possible a few mushrooms. Let it boil up in a few minutes, then draw it aside and let it simmer very gently for an hour ; remove the meat, strain the liquor and beat it briskly up, and add it to the rabbit; garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. Rabbit a la Tartare. Have a rabbit boned, cut it in pieces, put it to steep for an hour with an onion, some parsley, a few mushrooms and chives, all chopped finely; add pepper and salt to taste and a few drops of oil, then dip each piece of rabbit in egg and bread- crumbs and broil. Ragouts for an Entrde. Take some small dariole tins and line them thinly with batter made with a quarter pound of Vienna flour, two eggs, and rather more than a table- spoonful of salad oil; mix into a paste with a good half tumbler of cold water and see that the batter is smooth and not lumpy. Fry these in a saucepan with plenty of fat in it, and not too hot when the moulds are first put in. They must be done one at a time, and as soon as the cup is put into the grease itTEMPTING DISHES. 26 should be twisted round and round with a knife. When cooked the batter mould will easily slip out. Brush the outside of the cases with the white of an egg and sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley or coralline pepper. Fill the moulds with any kind of white meat cut up in dice shapes and mixed with white sauce; a few button mushrooms cut up and mixed in is an improvement. Risotto. Parboil some well-washed rice in boiling water for five minutes, draining and drying it on a cloth, then fry it a light brown with a little chopped onion and butter, and stew it till tender in enough well-seasoned soup to cover it well. It must be watched very closely, and the saucepan must be shaken to prevent burning. When done put it into a buttered mould with shreds of cold chicken, tongue or ham well shaken down, dust it with grated cheese, and brown it in the oven; or slices of mushrooms or a little tomato sauce are used as variations from the tongue or chicken. Roulades of Mutton. Remove the fillet from a loin of mutton, trim away all skin and fat. Flatten the fillet with the cutlet-bat and cut it lengthways into slices as thin as possible ; divide these into neat pieces three inches long. Sprinkle each with pepper and salt and finely chopped parsley ; roll them up tightly, dip into beaten egg and then into bread-crumbs mixed with an equal quantity of flour and highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Place each rouladeTEMPTING DISHES. 27 on a skewer (three or four on each skewer) and cook them in one ounce of butter in a fryingpan. Rumpsteak la Bonne-Bouche. Rub a thick steak with salt, pepper and mustard, flour. Put some butter into a fryingpan, and when it is boiling put the steak in and cook with a few sticks of celery cut small and about eight mushrooms; a good thick slice of onion and one little tiny piece of garlic should be put into the pan merely to lend its flavour. Fry all very quickly ; after taking it up remove the grease and add one tablcspoonful of well-smoothed flour, two of Harvey sauce, one teaspoonful of bovril melted in a teacupful of boiling water ; stir well the whole time and let it have a good boil up; serve the same separately. Make a suet crust and line a greased pudding- basin with it and fill the basin with sausages and a very little water, put on the cover, press the sides close, wet and flour the pudding-cloth and cover the pudding, &c., and boil one hour and a half. Mince half a pound of underdone beef or mutton as finely as possible and put it into a basin with half its weight in bread-crumbs, one ounce of butter broken into small pieces, a tablespoonful of finely minced onion, a teaspoonful of mixed powdered herbs and a good seasoning of salt and pepper. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, moisten with Sausag'e Pudding. Savoury Moulds.» 28 TEMPTING DISHES. beaten egg and fill in some small, well-buttered moulds ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, and turn out carefully ; insert a small sprig of pars- ley in the top of each and pour a little brown gravy round. Sheep’s Brains Roasted. Prepare the brains by soaking in cold water with a little salt for half an hour, remove the caul or skin which envelops them very gently, leave them in fresh water a little longer; they should be simmered in about a pint of water, seasoned with a tablespoonful of vinegar, a clove of garlic, bayleaf, thyme and half a teaspoonful of sugar, pepper and salt. When the brains are done drain and dry them, cut each one in half lengthways, brush over with yolk of egg and roll them in fine bread-crumbs seasoned with minced parsley, then sprinkle them with clarified butter and bread-crumbs again. Put each piece of brain on a small slice of bacon, place them in a baking-dish and set them in a well- heated oven for about half an hour, basting oc- casionally. When nicely browned lay the slices of bacon on toast, put the brains on the top of the bacon and serve with tomato sauce in a tureen. This is a very tasty and economical dish, as brains are very cheap. Sheep’s Head au Gratin. Remove the brains and put the head in water, having blanched it previously; bring it slowly to the boil, throw away the water, and again cover the head with fresh water ; then add a faggot of herbs,TEMPTING DISHES. *9 an onion, carrot, celery, one or two each of cloves, all- spice, and peppercorns, and any trimmings of bacon, and let it simmer very gently for two hours, when it should be done enough for the bones to slip out easily, take it up, remove the bones, and skin the tongue. Place the head on a greased baking-tin with the tongue upright in the centre ; sprinkle with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and a very little scraped onion and shalot; cover thickly with bread-crumbs, putting pieces of butter here and there, pour very little of the broth round, and bake till the crumbs are quite brown. Meanwhile, wash and skin the brains, boil them quickly in a little broth, drain and cut each piece in two, flour them, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Make a sauce by slicing an onion into a stewpan with a piece of butter; fry till brown ; mix in a spoonful of flour, add a cupful of the broth and one of brown gravy ; stir till it boils, add a tablespoonful of sharp sauce, strain, and mix in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, pour round the head and garnish with fried brains. Tomato Curry. Bake some large tomatoes and pass them through a sieve; add a tablespoonful of finely minced onions, a pinch of garlic, and some good curry powder ; add enough stock or water to moisten the whole. As the water or stock reduces, add more till the whole is well cooked, when remove and serve very hot. It is not necessary to serve rice with it. Tongue Pie. Take equal parts of cold tongue and cold poultry. Line an earthenware baking-dish with good pie-30 TEMPTING DISHES. crust, put the two meats into it in layers, seasoning each layer lightly with salt and pepper ; when the dish is full add sufficient cold gravy of any kind to moisten the meat; put an upper crust on it; cut a few slits in the upper crust to allow the steam to escape, and brush it over with melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour and serve either hot or cold. Milanese Timbale. Cook some macaroni in good beef gravy, drain it in a colander, place it in a warmed dish, and mix with some grated Gruyere cheese. Prepare a sauce with a few tomatoes, in which mix two or three mushrooms, forcemeat balls, and shelled shrimps: Make a light dough, line the bottom and sides of a round mould after greasing it with fresh butter, then put in a layer of macaroni, a layer of the prepared sauce, and so on till the mould is full. Pour a little beef gravy on the whole, and place the mould long enough in the oven to bake the paste; turn it out of the mould and serve either with tomato or brown sauce round it. Tripe a la Francaise. Take a pound of fresh tripe, cut it into pieces about two inches square, put them into a stewpan with enough good veal broth or light stock to cover them, and let them simmer gently from four to four and a half hours, or until the tripe is perfectly tender. Put into another stewpan two or three button mushrooms chopped,a little chopped parsley, a small onion minced, part of a bayleaf, a little pepper and salt, and a gill of white sauce. Stir these over a gentle fire till the mushrooms becomeTEMPTING DISHES. tender, and then add half a pint of veal broth or any pale broth. Let the same boil until it is perfectly smooth, then pour it over the tripe and serve. Fritot de Cervelle de Veau. Blanch the brains, and when cold they must be cut in slices as neatly as possible, seasoned with a little eschalot and parsley finely chopped and a little salad oil; then dip into batter and fry till a nice golden colour. Veal Mould. Slice evenly any cold roast veal, put a layer of this at the bottom of a pie-dish ; season with pepper and a little finely shreded lemon-rind. Next put on a layer of sliced cold boiled bacon or ham. Boil four eggs hard, and when cold slice and fill the dish with alternate layers of veal, ham, and eggs. Steep half an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water, and then add three-quarters of a pint of good stock flavoured with beef extract and lemon-juice. Boil till quite dissolved, and pour over the meat hot, but not boiling. Turn out when cold.—Caterer. Vinaigrette of Fish. Take any cold fish; heap the pieces without any bones or skin with them in a mound in the centre of a platter. Chop two boiled eggs, the yolks and whites separately, and arrange first a border of chopped yolks, then a border of chopped whites around the fish, finally add a wreath of capers about an inch from the eggs and serve the fish with a vinaigrette sauce, made by mixing a tea- spoonful of pepper, one of salt, and half a oneTEMPTING DISHES. 32 of mustard to a paste and gradually adding vinegar enough to make half a cupful. When mixed add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil and beat the whole very thoroughly. This same may be used with cold meat also. Yorkshire Pudding. Take three ounces of flour, two eggs, a little over a gill of milk, two ounces of beef dripping, quarter of an ounce of Cowan’s baking-powder; mix the flour, eggs, milk, and baking-powder to- gether ; add a pinch of salt; put the dripping into a baking-tin, and place it in the oven to get hot; then pour in the batter and cook either in front of the fire under meat which is being roasted, or else in a quick oven. In the oven it takes from fifteen to twenty minutes to cook, but much longer if put under the meat.TEMPTING DISHES. 33 Apple Compdte. Cut up and boil six apples in one pint of water till soft; drain, and add to the juice a cup of sugar and a little lemon-rind ; boil one minute, add six more apples, cored and pared, and cook till tender. Then remove and fill the cores with orange marma- lade. Boil the syrup to a jelly and pour over. Apples & l’Enfance. Peel some apples and cut them into quarters, remove the cores and cook them in syrup till tender. When cooked mix them with stiffly whipped cream and place them in a pile on the dish, garnish the cream with some of the quarters of the apples, and ornament with crystallised cherries ; if possible, stand the dish on ice. Apple Fritters. Peel some apples; cut them into rather thin, slices and cut the core out of each slice, forming a ring. Take a little castor sugar, squeeze a drop or two of lemon-juice on each apple slice, and then press them on to the sugar on each side; dip into some batter and fry in hot fat. When they become a nice delicate brown take them out and dry them. Shake some white castor sugar over them and pile them high on a dish. It is a good plan to put a finger through the hole in the ring whilst throwing them into the fat in order to keep the ring shape. Batter should be a mixture of flour and milk made about as thick as double cream, and it should be very smooth ; and the fat should be very hot into which it is thrown. To make an extra good batter, add DTEMPTING DISHES. 34 half a pint of water to sufficient flour to make it the required thickness and then work in the yolk of an egg, and just before using the batter the white of the egg stiffly whisked should be added. Apple Fritters. Peel some apples, cut them in rings and stamp out the cores; sprinkle a little very finely grated lemon-rind over them, also a little castor sugar and a little rum, and let them remain with this on them for an hour, and then dip into the prepared batter before frying them. Albert Sandwiches. Take three eggs ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; a little grated cheese ; a little salt; and a dust of cayenne pepper. Put all into a saucepan and stir over the fire till it thickens ; cut some round pieces of bread, fry them in butter and spread the paste over them, and sprinkle a little grated tongue or ham over them before serving. Banana Fritters. Peel and cut each banana in half lengthwise; sprinkle a little finely chopped lemon-peel over them, and a little rum (the Liquid Sunshine rum is the best). Then dip the bananas in batter; fry them, and dust them with powdered sugar. Batter Puddings. Take six ounces of flour ; add a saltspoonful of salt and sugar to taste; moisten with a pint of milk ; mix till smooth and free from lumps ; then beat up separately two eggs ; strain the eggs andTEMPTING DISHES. 35 the milk and mix it quickly; while this is doing put one tablespoonful of beef dripping into a tin, and when it is very hot pour in the batter, and bake for an hour and a half. The batter before the eggs are added should be of the consistence of thick cream. Put the tin in the hottest part of the oven for an hour, then remove it to a cooler part to cook thoroughly through in another half-hour. Serve with meat or gravy. Carrot Pudding. Grate two cupfuls of carrots ; add to this one and a half cupfuls of finely chopped suet; four of moist sugar; eight of flour; half a pound of chopped raisins ; the same of currants ; one salt- spoonful of salt; and steam four hours. Set in an oven twenty minutes before serving. Chocolate Blancmange. Take a tin of condensed milk, and add some fresh milk to it; stir it over the fire, and stir into it about six sheets of white leaf gelatine which has been soaked in a cup of cold water; add three teaspoonfuls of grated chocolate, boil ten minutes, stirring all the time; when nearly cold beat for five minutes or until it begins to stiffen. Flavour and whip up at once, and put into a wet mould, and it will be firm in six or seven hours. Chocolate Pudding. Take three tablespoonfuls of sugar, four of cornflour. Dissolve two and a half tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate in hot water, scald a quart of milk by putting it into a boiler over boiling water.TEMPTING DISHES. 36 Dissolve the cornflour in a little scalded milk, and before it thickens, stir in the dissolved chocolate ; keep all in the boiler, stirring constantly till cooked. Use with cream or custard. Make a quarter of a pint of very strong clear coffee and, when cold, stir it into half a pint of sweetened milk ; beat up two fresh eggs (leaving out the whites), mix them with the coffee and milk ; put into a jug and stir over the fire as above. When cool, pour into custard glasses. One quart of milk, the same of bread-crumbs, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, the yolk of two eggs, a tablespoonful of butter : flavour with nutmeg and lemon ; then bake in a slow oven, and when done spread over a layer of red-currant jelly. Whip the whites of the eggs to a froth ; add two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar ; pour over the jelly and bake a light brown. Boil three tablespoonfuls of washed rice in a pint of milk, with sugar to taste, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Make a custard with a gill of milk and three eggs, and when cold add it to the rice. Beat to a froth a gill of cream with some sugar and a pinch ol isinglassine, dissolved in a little water. Mix this in with the rice and custard ; fill a mould, and set on ice ; then turn it out and serve. Preserved fruit, or preserve, may be served with it. Coffee Custards. Crumb Pudding. The Empress Rice. RIZ k l’imperatrice.TEMPTING DISHES 37 French Cannelons. Make some puff paste, roll thin, and cut into equal-sized strips. Place a spoonful of jam in the centre of each, cover with another strip of pastry, give a slight twist in the centre of each, and fry in boiling lard for about ten minutes ; then drain thoroughly upon a hot napkin and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Fig Mould. Take half-a-pound of figs, the yellow peel of a lemon, chopped fine, one and a half ounces of white sugar, and a large teacupful of water ; put all in a jar with a cover or lid on, and place it in a saucepan with as much boiling water as will reach half-way up the jar, and let all stew gently till all the liquid is dried up and the figs are quite soft; press the figs into a mould and let it stand till cold, then turn out, and pour a custard round it. Fig Pudding. Chop a pound of figs and six ounces of beef suet. Put a teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt into half-a-pound of flour. Put this mixture into a basin with a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs and two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. Beat up two eggs till light, and moisten with a little milk these ingredients to a stifif paste, and put it into a buttered mould with a cloth over, and boil it in boiling water for two hours. Floating Island. Cut a round sponge cake in slices, spread them with jam, place them on each other, and spread theTEMPTING DISHES. 33 top with jam. Put the cake in a glass dish, and pour over it about a pint of boiled custard. Whip the whites of the two eggs used for the custard stiffly with a tablespoonful of white powdered sugar and heap on the top. Sprinkle over with chopped pistachio kernels and ‘ hundreds and thousands.’ General Satisfaction. Cover the bottom of a tart dish with some finger sponge cakes, one gill of milk, and some jam, and put it in a moderate oven till hot. Grate the peel of a lemon and mix it with some sugar. Beat the yolk of one egg and the whites of three, beating in the sugar. Then pour on the cakes. Bake for fifteen minutes in a slow oven. Gingerbread Pudding. Work two ounces of butter with two table- spoonfuls of brown sugar, beat an egg well and add to it; then mix in one teacupful of milk, one teaspoonful of ground ginger, eight ounces of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and two of golden syrup, and steam for four hours. Gooseberry Fool. Take a quart of gooseberries and put them in a jar with two tablespoonfuls of water, and a very little powdered white sugar ; set the jar in a sauce- pan of boiling water and let it boil till the fruit is soft enough to mash; beat it to a pulp, and pass the pulp through a sieve, and stir into it two or three spoonfuls of condensed milk. Serve in a glass dish.39 TEMPTING DISHES. Hasty Pudding. Put some milk in a saucepan to boil, and when it quite boils dredge in some flour and keep stirring all the time (as it might burn), till the whole becomes very thick. Turn it out and stir for another minute after taking it from the fire, add a little butter and sweeten with sugar. Jam should be served round this pudding. Junket. Take a pint of fresh milk, a spoonful of white sugar, and one of rennet (bottles of rennet can be procured at most grocers), and a little brandy. Make the milk blood-warm, put it in a deep dish with the other ingredients, stir well together, and the milk will curdle and set. Then spread some clotted cream over the top, grate some nutmeg, and serve. Lemon Cheesecakes. Take one lemon and three ounces of sugar, rub the sugar on the rind, then put the sugar in a basin, in not quite half a pint of water, squeeze in the juice and place all in a saucepan to dissolve the sugar; thicken with a little arrowroot or corn- flour, till it becomes a jelly, stirring all the time till quite smooth (put in the thickening a little at a time and stir it quickly). Pour it then on to a plate to get cold, and then, with two forks, break it into little pieces and fill the tartlet cases. Lemon Pudding. Peel the rinds of two lemons as thin as possible. Take as little of the white substance off with the40 TEMPTING DISHES. rind as possible. Stew these rinds in half a pint of milk till they are soft enough to mash through a gravy-strainer. Whip up half a pint of cream ; then, without removing the cream, add two eggs one by one. Next, add the juice of the two lemons strained, with a heaped tablespoonful of powdered sugar, the milk in which the lemon-rinds were boiled, and the lemon-pulp. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper and bake. Brown the paste a little. Lemon Tart. Line a deep pie-dish with flaky paste and then fill in with a preparation made of the juice of one lemon and the yellow rind grated, two-thirds of a cup of white sugar, one well-beaten egg, and one tablespoonful of cornflour ; stir all into half a pint of boiling water, and boil from three to five minutes ; pour on to the crust and set in the oven for a few minutes. Lemon Whip. Rub two and a half ounces of sugar on a lemon, crush the sugar, put it into a stewpan, and squeeze the lemon-juice through a strainer on to it. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, add them to the sugar and lemon-juice, and stir over the fire till the cus- tard thickens, but do not let it boil; continue stirring a few minutes after removing from the fire, then leave it in the saucepan to get nearly cold. Whisk up the whites to a very stiff froth, stir them lightly into the custard, then heap it up in a glass dish. This should only be made two hours before it is wanted.4* TEMPTING DISHES. Norfolk Dumplings. Purchase a few muffins from the baker, boil them for twenty minutes in water, and serve with sweet sauce. Orange Fool. Take six oranges, and extract the juice, and mix it with one and a half pints of milk (or one pint of cream), two eggs beaten till light, sugar to taste, and about a teaspoonful of cornflour mixed till smooth. Stir this all over a slow fire till as thick as good custard. Another way is to mix the juice of six or eight oranges, and the strained fruit, with two tablespoonfuls of condensed milk, and serve cold. Orange Meringue Pudding. Four half a pint of milk over a couple of ounces of bread-crumbs, and let them soak till cold. Beat up the yolks of two eggs till light; add two ounces of pounded sugar, and the grated rind of four oranges. Cut away all the white pith and press the pulp of the oranges through a wire sieve. Add the orange-pulp and bread to the sugar, break it up in pieces, and stir in half an ounce of fresh butter. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, mix lightly half the whites into the mix- ture, pour into a buttered pudding-dish, pile the remainder roughly on the top, dredge on some finely powdered sugar, and bake the pudding in a slow oven for three-quarters of an hour, when it should be of a pale golden colour. When the pudding is half baked, lay a sheet of paper on the top to prevent scorching.42 TEMPTING DISHES. Orange Pudding. Take the rind of three oranges and the juice of six, a cup of powdered sugar, and four eggs, one large tablespoonful of cornflour, and a pint of milk. Mix the cornflour with the milk. Stir it in a milk saucepan, add the thin rind of the oranges. When the milk begins to thicken, add the yolks of the eggs very carefully one at a time, then add a little salt and the juice of the oranges. Cook the pudding in a moderate oven till firm in the centre—it takes about forty minutes—remove the rind before the pudding is put into the oven. Whip the whites of the eggs up with a little orange- juice and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, cover the pudding, and let it cook in a moderate oven, with the door open a little. Serve the pudding cold. Pear Croquettes. Peel, core, and chop fine or grate six large ripe pears. Mix two ounces of fresh butter, melted, with them, and sugar to taste ; beat up three eggs until light, add to the fruit, and mix in as large a quantity of fine bread-crumbs as will make the mixture stiff. From this mixture mould the cro- quettes into egg-shaped form with two tablespoons, drop these into boiling water, and let them merely simmer till they are done—about twenty minutes —drain them, roll each in pounded sugar, lay them on a hot napkin, and place a very little ground cin- namon on the top of each croquette. Serve up very hot with or without sweet sauce.TEMPTING DISHES. 43 Pear Marmalade. Take a dozen pears, throw them into boiling water and boil for twenty minutes or till soft enough to press through a sieve. Drain, remove the skins by gently rubbing the pears with a damp towel, press the pulp through the sieve. Weigh and add to its bulk in powdered loaf sugar made hot in the oven. Stir till it boils ; draw the pan to one side and keep the marmalade at the simmering point about twenty minutes or so, taking care not to let it boil. When the marmalade gets stiff pot it and cover when cold. Pears, to Stew. Take twelve good-sized hard pears, peel and cut them in halves, leaving the stalk on one half. Remove the cores and then place them in a jar with half a pound of loaf sugar, six cloves and half a pint of water. Cover with a lid and stew in a slow oven from six to eight hours. When they are done lift each piece of pear on to a dish, strain the liquor into a saucepan and boil it quickly for ten minutes. If the colour is not good two or three drops of cochineal may be added. Let it cool and then pour over the pears; a little lemon-peel cut in thin, long, narrow strips may be stewed in with the pears, and it is a great improvement. Juice of Pears. Take some ripe and sound pears, wipe them with a damp cloth, cut them into thin slices and put them into a preserving-pan with one pint of water to every three pounds of fruit, and boil gently until they are soft enough to be rubbed through a44 TEMPTING DISHES. hair sieve. Weigh the juice and allow equal weight of powdered sugar, and mix thoroughly. Pour into clean bottles, cork tightly and tie down with string. Place the bottles in a pan of cold water with twists of hay around them to prevent them from breaking ; let the water boil for five minutes and then cool again before the bottles are removed. Store in a dry place. Pippin Tarts. Pare two oranges very thinly, boil the peel till tender, shred it fine, and core six apples and put them in a jar with a gill of water ; when half- cooked add half a pound of sugar and boil till pretty thick. When cold, place in a shallow dish lined with paste, turn out, and eat cold. Raspberry Trifle. Put a layer of sponge cake at the bottom of a glass dish, cover with raspberries and sprinkle white powdered sugar over them and repeat layers till the dish is full. Make a custard with two eggs, add a tablespoonful of castor sugar and stir in gradually a pint of milk. Let it thicken slightly, and then flavour with vanilla or lemon, and when cold pour it over the cake, etc. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth with a teaspoonful ot sugar, pour over all and serve as quickly as pos- sible. Ratafia Pudding Soak the crumb of a French roll and three sponge cakes and half a pound of ratafias in milk till quite soft, then beat them up, add three ounces of warmed butter, the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, and a few almonds blanched and45 TEMPTING DISHES. pounded. Butter a mould, lay a few dried cherries in it, pour in the pudding, cover the mould and steam it in a saucepan of boiling water for an hour and a half. Rhubarb Cream. Boil a bundle of rhubarb with a little water, some sugar, and the rind of- half a lemon thinly peeled ; when quite soft, pass it through a sieve, and to the pulp add two well-beaten eggs ; stir over the fire again till it just boils; or when pulped add half a pint of cream, stir well together and put into a glass dish. Rice Croquettes. Boil the rice until quite soft and tender; whilst warm add an egg well beaten, a tablespoonful of butter and salt to taste, and half a teacupful of any kind of cold meat, ham, or tongue, chopped fine. When cold, make into croquettes, cover with beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot dripping till browned. Rice Fritters. Boil two ounces of rice in a little milk and water till quite soft, let it cool, then mix it up with one ounce of sugar, a few currants, a tablespoonful of flour, two well-beaten eggs, a few drops of essence of almonds, and as much milk as will make it of a proper consistency. Drop the mixture from a tablespoon into boiling butter, and fry a light brown on both sides; drain well and sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve very hot.46 TEMPTING DISHES. Rolled Jelly Cake. Take two eggs, beat the yolks till creamy, adding gradually a good heaped-up tablespoonful of castor sugar ; beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them to the yolk and sugar ; add half a teaspoonful of baking-powder to half a cup of lightly sifted flour ; put this very carefully and slowly with the butter, add one tablespoonful of warm water. Line a long-shaped baking-pan with greased paper, pour in the mixture to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Bake from eight to ten minutes in a moderate oven. It must be thoroughly cooked, but lightly baked. As soon as it is done, turn it quickly from the pan, remove the paper, turn the cake, and spread it with jelly. With a knife quickly crush the crust round the edge and roll up the cake. Preserved Tomatoes. Take five pounds of yellow egg tomatoes five pounds of white sugar, the juice of two lemons (three, if small). Cover the fruit with the sugar, and let it stand overnight. In the morning drain the syrup from the fruit, boil, skim, put in the tomatoes, and boil slowly for twenty minutes ; skim the fruit, then put out into plates; boil the juice till thick ; add the lemon-juice, and put the tomatoes carefully into bottles, and cover with the hot syrup. Seal up at once. Scotch Fritters. Take any remains of cold game, and mince very finely, removing all skin and gristle. If there47 TEMPTING DISHES. should be half a pound, mix in with it about six or eight finely chopped mushrooms, a little season- ing of salt and pepper, a dust of cayenne, and stir it into about half a pint of good batter. Drop the mixture a tablespoonful at a time into a saucepan with plenty of boiling fat in it, and as soon as the fritters become a good golden colour, remove and drain them, and keep hot till all are cooked, d hen pile them up high on a hot dish with sprigs of crisp, fried parsley, and serve. Simple Sweet Omelet. Beat together the yolk of an egg, one teaspoon- ful of sugar, one and a half teaspoonful of orange- juice, and three gratings of the orange-peel ; then pour this over the lightly whisked white of egg, put in a hot pan over a quick fire, cook for about three minutes, and then put it into the oven for half a minute, fold and sprinkle with sugar. Stanley Pudding. Take half a pint of milk and mix a little of it with a tablespoonful of flour. Heat the rest of the milk, and pour it on the flour, stirring well. Beat a couple of eggs, and with an ounce of butter add to the flour, stirring and beating well. Pour all into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for half an hour. Spread on the top a layer of raspberry jam, and the white of an egg whipped and sweetened. Yeast Dumplings. Get half a quartern of dough from the baker’s; roll it into dumplings; throw into boiling water48 TEMPTING DISHES. and boil for about twenty minutes. Serve either with sweet sauce or good gravy. Anchovy Cream Toasts. Fry some thin sippets of bread, either round or diamond shape. Spread these with a little anchovy paste. Make a thick mayonnaise sauce to which has been added chopped chervil, shalot or chives, and capers. Spread the sauce between the anchovy sippets like sandwiches, and serve with watercress or mustard and cress. Baked Eggs. Butter a dish, cover the bottom with fine bread- crumbs ; then break as many eggs as may be required over them, be careful not to break the yolks ; then sprinkle another layer of crumbs over them ; season with pepper and salt; place on a few little pieces of butter, and bake five minutes in a quick oven. Baked Eggs. Put some good gravy into a shallow baking- dish. Break four eggs or as many as are required into this, salt them, and strew some bread-crumbs over them, and bake for five minutes in a quick oven. Take up the eggs carefully one by one and lay upon little rounds of fried bread. Add to the gravy a little cream and some very finely chopped parsley and onion ; put into a saucepan and boil up quickly and pour over the eggs. Baked Eggs. Fill the dish with the beaten whites. Make a hollow in the centre and put in the unbeaten yolks;49 TEMPTING DISHES. sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the top, and lay a small piece of butter on the yolk. Bake for two minutes. Bloater Puree. Simmer six bloaters, remove the skins and take off the flesh from the bones, and pass it through a sieve and put it into a stewpan. Add sufficient butter to make it into a perfectly smooth paste. Draw the pan a little on one side, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream, a little finely chopped parsley and a seasoning of Nepaul pepper. Stir till the preparation is quite hot, then turn it out, sprinkle brown raspings and sifted egg-yolk over the top, and garnish with a border of toasted sippets. Bloaters’ Brains on Toast. Take the soft roe of the bloater, slice it neatly, with a tiny dust of Nepaul or coralline pepper, and then roll each slice very delicately in a very thin slice of bacon. Roll them on a neatly cut piece of toast, and put them into the oven and quickly cook and serve very hot.—Poitard. Bloater Roes. Take some bloater rocs, either hard or soft, boil them ; then pound them in a mortar and roll them up with a little butter, and a dust of salt and cayenne pepper, and then spread on very hot buttered toast. Stuffed Bloaters. Remove the roes from some bloaters, and pound them in the mortar, take away all bones from the5<> TEMPTING DISHES. fish, add to the roes a couple of tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, some minced parsley, and a teaspoon- ful of sweet herbs chopped fine, a little finely grated lemon-peel. Stuff the bloaters with this and fasten with a skewer, and bake, and serve very hot Breakfast Dish. Take three tomatoes, slice them and put them in a stewpan with a little butter, a little finely chopped ham, pepper and salt, and let them cook for a few minutes; then add two raw eggs and stir all together for a few minutes till the eggs set, then serve on buttered toast with a little finely chopped parsley sprinkled over the top. Cabbage a la Creme. Boil cabbage till tender. Drain it. When it is perfectly cold drain it a second time, then chop up, and mix with it a tablespoonful of butter, a well-beaten egg, pepper, salt, and half a teacupful of milk or cream. Stir all well. Then bake brown in a pudding dish. Serve hot in the dish in which it is baked. The dish should be buttered or greased. Cabbage and Tomato. Boil and chop finely some young cabbage, as little water as possible should be used ; when quite tender add half the quantity of hot stewed tomatoes. Boil together for a few minutes. Season with a little salt and pepper, and pour a little white sauce over.TEMPTING DISHES. 5* Fried Celery. Cut the white pieces of the celery into lengths of four inches, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; dip them into beaten egg, then bread-crumb them, and fry quickly in very hot fat; drain, and then serve. Celery k la Parmesan. Stew some celery in milk till tender ; then make a white sauce, into which grated Parmesan should be mixed, and then place the celery on the dish it is to be served in. Pour the white sauce over, then a layer of grated Parmesan, then a thin layer of bread-crumbs, and over all arrange some little pieces of butter, salamander, and serve. Champignons k la Bordelaise. Take half-a-pound of fresh mushrooms of good size, peel and place them in an earthenware dish with plenty of pepper and salt to season, also a small piece each of garlic and parsley. Place the dish in the oven and baste continually with melted butter ; remove after an hour’s cooking, and broil each mushroom slightly over a moderate fire. Make a sauce of the liquor contained in the baking- dish by adding flour and butter. Cheese Custards. Take two ounces of grated cheese, three tea- spoonfuls of milk or cream, one egg well-beaten, a little cayenne and salt to taste. Beat all well£ TEMPTING DISHES. together, bake in a small dish in a gentle oven for fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve very hot. Cheese Pudding-. Beat up two eggs well; mix in three ounces of grated cheese. A little salt, cayenne, made mustard and a little milk. Thoroughly mix and pour into a buttered pie-dish and bake. Cheese Tartlets. Beat up the yolk of an egg; mix with it two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust of cayenne pepper, and a little salt. Have ready a little very light puff paste, line half a dozen small patty-pans with it, or cut it into small squares ; put a little mixture into each pan, or in the centre of the squares, fold the latter over cornerways, or pinch the four corners into the centre ; bake for a few minutes. The paste may be cut into finger- strips and the mixture spread on half of them, placing the others sandwich fashion over them. Colcannon. Boil some potatoes and any kind of greens, separately. Mash the former, and chop the latter very finely, and mix the two together with a little butter, pepper, salt, and a very tiny piece of chopped onion. Put all into a buttered mould, and stand it in a hot oven for twenty minutes.TEMPTING DISHES. 53 Convent Eggs. Boil four eggs for ten minutes, put them into cold water; peel and skin one onion very thin ; then put into a fryingpan one ounce of butter, and, when melted, add the onion, a teaspoonful of Hour, half-a-pint of milk, salt, and pepper ; then add the eggs, cut crosswise each into six pieces. Serve upon toast. Croutes k la Campagne. Take six boned and well-washed anchovies, pound them together with the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, about a quarter of a pound of butter, and a tiny dust of Nepaul pepper, and a little cochineal colouring. Pound these into a smooth paste, rub through wire sieve, and then arrange them on to some little round fried croutons, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley over. Croutes of Haddock. Take a Finnon haddock about a pound in weight, free it from skin and bones, and put it into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, four table- spoonfuls of milk, a well-beaten yolk of egg, a little pepper, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk these ingredients quickly over the fire for five minutes, by which time the fish will be smooth. Pile this on some small rounds of hot buttered toast. Sprinkle the tops lightly with finely minced parsley and coralline pepper, and serve.TEMPTING DISHES. 54 Curried Eggs on Toast. Cut some round pieces of fried bread, curry some onions, and put a good layer of them on the fried rounds of bread. Keep very hot while the required number of eggs is being poached, and lay a poached egg on each round of curry toast, and serve quickly. Devilled Biscuits. Take some water biscuits, steep them in milk for ten minutes, take them out, dust them with cayenne, salt and black pepper, and bake them in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Devilled Lobster. Take the meat from a lobster and put on a little Nepaul pepper, chop it very finely, then add a dessertspoonful of chutney, a little oiled butter and a tomato cut up small. These must be stewed over the fire, stirring till they boil; add a little mixed mustard (French also if available). Have ready some little squares of fried bread, and put some of the devilled lobster on each, and sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over. Devilled Sardines. Take six sardines and spread over them on both sides some made mustard and a dash of cayenne, grill them and serve on hot buttered toast; garnish with slices of lemon.55 TEMPTING DISHES. Eggs a la Bonne Femme. Get as many eggs as there are guests (they should all be of the same size); boil them for ten minutes and put them into cold water to cool, then remove the shells very carefully, cut them in half, remove the yolks and cut from each the pointed tip of white so that they should stand quite flat. Make some very tiny dice of cold chicken, ham, beetroot and the yolks of the eggs. Fill the hollows with these up to the brim, and pile it high up in the centre. Arrange lettuce on the dish, and place the eggs in the midst of it. Eggs and Mushrooms. Hard boil three or four eggs, cut them length- wise, scoop out the yolks and put in their place a mixture of equal parts of tomatoes and mushrooms rubbed through a sieve ; close the two halves of the eggs and lay them on a bed of hot crisped parsley. The eggs should be heated a few minutes before serving, and then some hot clear butter poured over them. Finnon Haddock with Poached Eggs. Heat a large pie-dish, place the haddock in it and cover it with boiling water; put a dish over and allow the fish to soak for eight minutes. The haddock should now be swollen to nearly double its oiiginal size. Drain it from the water and place it with the skin downwards in a Dutch oven before the fire, with several lumps of butter on the top; add also a little pepper and cayenne. The fish should remainTEMPTING DISHES. 56 before the fire till a golden-brown colour, and it may require the tin turning, so as to bake equally. When done, place on a hot dish and cover the top with poached eggs, according to the number of persons. Gascony Butter. Take equal quantities of parsley picked from the stalk and parboiled, of boned and pounded anchovies, and of fresh butter. Mix the ingredients well together and pass them through a hair sieve ; shape the butter into little balls and ice them. These arc nice little relishes for breakfast or lunch. Grenada Toasts. Cut some fat and lean bacon into dice, give them a few turns over the fire with parsley, green onions, pepper and salt; add the yolks of two eggs, stir them well together, and spread over slices of fried bread. Ham Balls. Chop half a pound of cold lean ham, put a tea- cupful of milk on to boil, add to it half a teacupful of stale bread-crumbs and stir till it thickens ; add two egg yolks, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and the chopped ham ; stir over fire till well heated, adding a little minced parsley ; leave till cold. Ham Toast. A quarter-pound of lean ham chopped very fine, a dessertspoonful of butter and the yolk of anTEMPTING DISHES. S7 egg, a dust of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of cream or milk ; stir over fire in a saucepan till it thickens, then spread on toast. Jerusalem Artichokes and Cheese. Boil some artichokes, and cover them with a sauce made with a dessertspoonful of flour, rubbed into cold water (about a teacupful), and stirred over the fire till hot, then a little butter and grated Parmesan cheese stirred in till the former is dis- solved. Macaroni a 1’Italienne. Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water, and let it boil till cooked, which will be in twenty-five minutes ; allow half a pound of macaroni to a pint of boiling water. Take some tomato sauce, and add a good piece of fresh butter to it whilst cooking • then pour on some good beef gravy, and thoroughly warm. Drain the macaroni, and place a layer of it in a deep dish, and sprinkle well with grated Gruyere and Parmesan cheese; pour on it a small portion of the sauce and gravy mixed, and very hot, so as to melt the cheese ; then place another layer of macaroni, grated cheese and sauce ; then strain well, without breaking the macaroni, after which continue putting on layers, and finally serve. Macaroni a la Milanese. Boil a teacupful of macaroni till tender, strain it off, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter, pepper and salt; add a teaspoonful of tomato pulp ; serve hot, and hand grated cheese separately.*8 TEMPTING DISHES. Mushrooms au Gratin. Scoop out the inside of some nice round cup mushrooms after peeling them ; cut off the stalks, peel them and chop them up with a small bit of onion, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of thyme and a piece of thin lemon-peel, the size of sixpence; fry these in bacon fat, flavour with pepper and salt, and add sufficient quantity cf bread-crumbs to fill the hollowed-out mushrooms. Fill the hollows with this mixture and cover with a few bread-crumbs, and cook very slowly in good fat in a stewpan, keeping them well covered to keep in the flavour. Serve with a little gravy poured round. Mushrooms with Toast. Rub the tops of the mushrooms with a piece of flannel dipped in salt. Heat some butter in a sauce- pan, into which put the mushrooms with a little salt and Nepaul pepper; let them stew gently till the butter has almost disappeared, when add cream - and the grated rind of a lemon. Let them simmer now only till done. Serve the mushrooms on cut rounds of fried bread, and squeeze some lemon- juice over them. 4- Pailles de Parmesan. Grate four ounces of Parmesan cheese, four ounces of bread-crumbs, the same quantity each of flour and butter, and add a pinch of cayenne pepper. Make into a paste (use a little milk to mix), cut this into narrow strips of half an inch thickness, and bake in a quick oven for five minutes. Serve cold.TEMPTING DISHES. 59 Potatoes and Bacon. Cut thin rashers of bacon, fry them, and when cooked throw into the fat in the saucepan some roughly chopped potatoes ; pile them on a hot dish, brown in front of the fire, and serve with the rashers on the top. Season the potatoes well with pepper and salt. Baked Potatoes with Cheese. Scour the potatoes and bake them till done; cut their tops nearly off and scoop out the insides ; mix with them a little grated cheese, an egg, a little butter or milk, salt and pepper; fill the skins with this mixture, replace the tops, and bake them again till hot. Potato and Cheese Patties. Mash three or four potatoes, mix them with a little butter, milk, grated cheese, salt and pepper; put a little of the mixture in each patty-pan and bake for a few minutes. Paper Ramekin cases can be filled with them, instead of using patty- pans. Potato and Ham Sandwiches. V Stir two eggs into a quart of well-seasoned mashed potatoes without beating ; on two table- spoonfuls of this potato lay a slice of cold ham neatly trimmed ; cover with the same amount of potato, press firmly together round the edges, dredge with flour on both sides ; have some boiling fat ready on the stove, and fry these a delicate brown.6o TEMPTING DISHES. Potatoes & la Lyonnaise. Mince an onion and fry it in hot butter; add cold sliced potatoes, and stir them till they are fried white; then add a little minced parsley. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel. Boil six potatoes for half an hour ; when cool, peel and cut them into thick slices. Put two ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, a little pepper and salt, and two table- spoonfuls of gravy juice into a stewpan ; mix to- gether, put in the potatoes, and shake the sauce- pan, so that the sauce may cover them well. When quite hot squeeze some lemon over, and serve. Potato Puff. One pint hot mashed potato; add one tea- spoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of pepper, two spoonfuls of celery salt, one tablespoonful of butter, and hot milk to moisten. When partly cool add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake for ten minutes. Beat lightly. Scotch Woodcock. Take a couple of slices of buttered toast, place an anchovy on each slice; take the yolks of two eggs and a gill of milk or cream. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the former, and stir them into the cream or milk, and bring the same to boiling point or it will curdle. Take the hot buttered toast and spread with the anchovies pounded to a paste ; pour a little of the hot sauce on the top and serve quickly and hotTEMPTING DISHES. 61 Stuffed Potatoes. Bake six potatoes of equal size ; when done and still hot cut off a small piece from the end of each potato, scoop out the inside, mash and mix with half the quantity of any cold meat, highly seasoned and finely minced. Fill the skins a little above the edge. Set in the oven to brown the tops. Rice Croquettes with Parmesan. Wash half a pound of rice and simmer slowly in a quart of milk and water until the rice is nicely swollen and the quart of liquid all absorbed. Then place in a colander before the fire and shake occa- sionally until the rice is quite dry. Add bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan (an equal cupful of each), a little salt and cayenne ; then roll into small round balls, dip each one into egg and butter, and fry a delicate brown. Sprinkle thickly with grated Parmesan and serve either hot or cold. Rice and Cheese. Boil some rice in milk till tender and all the milk is soaked up, then mix in some grated cheese, pepper and salt; put the mixture in a small pie- dish, shake some grated cheese over the top, and bake in the oven till the top is nicely browned. It must be well moist before it is baked. Mus- tard should be served with it. Risotto k la Milanese. Cut up an onion and fry it a nice brown, but do not burn it. Put this into a saucepan with half a pound of rice and some nice stock to it, and let theTEMPTING DISHES. 62 rice cook gently till all the stock is soaked up. Season with a little pepper and salt, and serve with grated cheese. Sardine Sandwich Remove the skin and bones from six sardines ; mash them, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, one of lemon-juice, one of Worcestershire sauce ; pound, and add gradually one tablespoonful of olive oil; when smooth spread thinly on small crisp water biscuits ; dust thickly with the yolks of hard-boiled eggs mashed fine; serve with water- cress or lettuce. Savoury Custard. Beat up two eggs, and stir into them a teacup- ful of cold beef-tea or some bovril ; add a little salt and pepper ; pour into a small buttered basin ; cover with a buttered paper and place in a sauce- pan of boiling water, which should come rather more than half-way up, and steam gently for half an hour. Savoury Croutons. Cut some slices of stale bread into fancy shapes—rounds, diamonds, heart-shapes, trefoils, etc.—and soak these thoroughly in milk; then sprinkle them on both sides with a mixture of minced onion, herb powder, pepper, salt and chopped parsley; press this well into the croutons, and fry them in boiling fat; drain carefully ; pile up high on a hot napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. The croutons may be soaked in white stock instead of milk.63 TEMPTING DISHES. Savoury Pancakes. Put six tablespoonfuls of flour in a basin with a teaspoonful of salt; make this into a batter of the proper consistence as thick as double cream, with three large eggs well beaten and a little milk ; beat the mixture briskly with a wooden spoon till every tiny knot is smooth ; then stir in a tablespoonful of minced onion ; a teaspoonful of herb powder ; and a good dust of pepper. Let the batter stand a few hours, then fry a small teacupful at a time in boiling fat or lard ; as each pancake is finished roll it up bolster fashion, sprinkle pepper and salt over, and serve as quickly after being cooked as possible. Spinach Souffld. Make a thick puree of spinach, using good stock to mix it with ; add half a tablespoonful of flour, a little salt, pepper, and an ounce of butter ; let all this boil till thick, then add the yolks of two eggs, a gill of milk, and mix well together Just before sending to table, add the whipped whites of the eggs and put into the oven till cooked. Strew hard-boiled egg (yolk and white), passed through the sieve, over the top. Stuffed Cabbage. Choose a large cabbage; remove the outside leaves ; throw into boiling water with salt and boi; for ten minutes ; then throw it into cold water ; drain and press it with the hands to get all the moisture out; take out the middle of the cabbage and fill it with a stuffing made of sausage meat,TEMPTING DISHES. u bacon, or the remains of cold meat, etc., chopped ; cover the stuffing with cabbage leaves ; tie up the cabbage ; cook it in a stewpan with slices of bacon over, and under it herbs, carrots, onions, cloves and nutmeg ; moisten with stock or broth, and cook slowly from two and a half to three hours. When done put the cabbage on a dish ; skim and strain the gravy, and pour some over the cabbage. Tomatoes and Cheese. Cut off the tops of the tomatoes, remove the insides; mix with them a little grated cheese, pepper, salt, butter, and grated bread-crumbs ; fill them with this mixture and bake in a buttered tin. Tomatoes and Cream. Slice the tomatoes rather thick and turn off all the juice that escapes; sprinkle with sugar, and just before they are served pour cream over them. Tomatoes and Eggs. Boil some ripe tomatoes and pulp them through a coarse sieve, stir in two or three eggs according to size of dish, pepper, salt, and a little butter, and fry all together lightly. A little fine onion is an improvement. Tomato Pancakes. Make a batter as for savoury pancakes, and stir into it, instead of the onion, etc., four ripe tomatoes skinned and beaten to a pulp. Fry and serve in the usual manner, or they may be fried with the onions and the herbs as in the previous recipe ; then65 TEMPTING DISHES. when nicely set and turned a couple of spoonfuls of hot stewed tomatoes may be lightly laid in the centre of each pancake; the edges must then be turned over and the whole nicely browned. Tomato Salad. Take half a pound of sliced tomatoes and one ounce of Spanish onion, cut into very thin rings. Lay the tomatoes on the bottom of the dish, scatter the rings over, dress with vinegar, black pepper and salt. Tomatoes on Toast. Take six or eight ripe tomatoes, cut off the stalks and any green part there may be, take out the seeds and cut the tomatoes into thick slices ; arrange these in a single layer on a greased baking- tin, sprinkle over them some finely sifted bread- crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; put a little piece of butter on each slice and bake in a brisk oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on neatly cut pieces of hot buttered toast, with the gravy that is in the dish with them poured over; a. few drops of lemon-juice is an improvement. Vegetable Marrow au Parmesan. Peel and cut in half a vegetable marrow; take out the seeds and soft part, and cut it into neat oval- shaped fillets about three inches long and two inches wide. Put them into a small stewpan with a piece of butter and stew till tender ; add pepper and salt and serve on fried croutons of bread and pour Parmesan sauce over them. V66 TEMPTING DISHES. Anchovy Sauce. Prepare some melted butter (see ‘ Melted Butter ’), add a little cayenne, and add when the sauce is over the fire a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies. Apple Sauce. Take half a dozen good sized apples and throw them into cold water, after paring and coreing them. Then put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to moisten them, and boil till soft enough to pulp. Beat them up, adding a little sugar to taste and a small piece of butter. Bread Sauce, to Make. Take half a pint of milk, and boil in it a shalot which has one clove stuck in it for five minutes ; then add two ounces of grated freshly made bread- crumbs, and an ounce of butter. Let the sauce simmer gently for ten minutes, at the end of which time the shalot must be taken out of the sauce, and two good tablespoonfuls of cream added to it, a pinch of salt, a dust of white pepper, and a trifle of Nepaul pepper. The sauce must boil for a few minutes more, and will then be ready to serve. The cream can be omitted. Caper Sauce. Make some melted butter and take two table- spoonfuls of capers with some of their liquor, chop the capers in halves, and add them with their liquor to the melted butter, and keep stirring well. Let the sauce simmer, and then serve.67 TEMPTING DISIIES. Egg Sauce. Take half a pint of melted butter and two eggs hard boiled. The eggs should be boiled for twenty minutes and then thrown into cold water for half an hour ; then strip off the shells, chop the eggs (not too fine), and stir into the melted butter on the fire, with a squeeze of lemon-juice. A table- spoonful of cream is a great improvement. Horseradish Sauce. One teaspoonful of made mustard, a dessert- spoonful of condensed milk, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and as much grated horseradish as will make it as thick as custard. A good tablespoonful of cream is a great improvement. Lobster Sauce. Make some good melted butter as per recipe, add a dust of coralline pepper to it, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream if wanted superior. Take the meat from a new lobster and cut it into small square pieces, put the spawn into a mortar with half an ounce of butter and pound it smooth, rub it through a hair sieve, put the pieces of lobster into the melted butter and the pounded spawn, stir well together over the fire and serve. Melted Butter. Take one teaspoonful of flour, one ounce of butter, and not quite half a pint of milk, and a few grains of salt. Mix the butter and a little of the milk smoothly together in a basin, and melt theTEMPTING DISHES. 68 ) butter in the saucepan ; put the flour-paste into the hot butter in the saucepan; stir it over the fire for one minute and then pour in the remainder of the milk ; keep stirring one way only over a quick fire; let it boil quickly for a minute or two, and then it will be ready to serve. This sauce is the foundation of all other sauces. Mustard Sauce. Mix four tablespoonfuls of mustard, and one teaspoonful of salt, with enough Chili vinegar to form a smooth paste, then stir in half a pint of vinegar. Onion Sauce. Peel some onions and put them into a little salt and water, and let them steep for fifteen minutes. Then put them into a saucepan, cover them with water, and let them boil till tender. Then drain the onions, chop them finely, and rub them through a sieve. Take half a pint of melted butter (see ‘ Melted Butter ’), and when it is boiling put in the onions, season with a very little salt and some white pepper, and serve. Oyster Sauce. Take half a pint of melted butter (see under * Melted Butter ’) and put into it the liquor of the oysters, and in which liquor the beards of the oysters should be scalded and then strained ; add a few drops of essence of anchovy, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a dash of cayenne ; boil up, and then put in the oysters uncooked, but cut in half. A tablcspoonful of cream is a great improvement.69 TEMPTING DISHES. Parsley Sauce. Take one ounce of butter and one and a half ounces of flour, and fry them until they become a pale gold colour ; then add, by degrees, half a pint of boiling water, and stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, then strain the sauce through a tammy. Then add the parsley, which has been made thus. Take a good handful of parsley and branch itf press out all the water, mix a little butter with it and a little green colouring, and then rub through a hair sieve; then mix it with the sauce and add a tablespoonful of cream. Parsley Sauce. Take a handful of parsley and put it into a stewpan, and cover it with cold water ; add a little soda and a pinch of salt, and bring the water quickly to the boil ; strain it off and press the water well from the parsley. Mix an ounce of butter with the parsley and rub it through a hair sieve. Fry an ounce of butter and an ounce and a half of flour together till a pale gold colour; then pour on rather more than half a pint of boil- ing water, and stir over the fire till the sauce boils ; then strain it, and afterwards add the parsley and two tablespoonfuls of cream. If the parsley is a bad colour, a little green colouring may be added. Piquante Sauce (another way). Take a dessertspoonful of chopped shalot, one of capers, and one of pickled gherkins. Put these into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a bay leaf, and let all simmer till the vinegarTEMPTING DISHES. 70 has evaporated very nearly away; then add half a pint of good brown gravy, and add a little salt. If required thick, add some brown thickening, and skim the sauce to get rid of any grease. Corn-fiour Cake. Beat a quarter of a pound of cutter, and the same of sugar, to a cream ; add the yolks of two eggs, beating all the time, and the grated rind of a lemon ; stir in six ounces of corn-flour, which should be warmed and sifted, and then the whites stiffly whipped. Bake in a buttered and papered tin for an hour. • Crisp Biscuits. Make a pound of flour, the yolk of one egg, and some milk, into a very stiff paste, beat it well, knead it smooth, roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. Drop Cakes. Put one pound of flour into a basin, and rub into it half a pound of butter ; add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar; grate the peel from one lemon, and add to it. Mix in a quarter of a pound of currants, and two eggs, well beaten ; stir well all together, and drop this mixture on to a floured baking-tin in lumps, and bake in a moderate oven from a quarter to half an hour. Gingerbread Cake. Take a pound and a half of flour, one pound of treacle, a quarter of a pound of butter, one tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, the same of ground.TEMPTING DISHES. 7i ginger and of ground cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of allspice, and half an ounce of carraway seeds, two ounces of sugar and of orange-peel, two eggs, and enough milk to make all into a stiff paste. Melt the butter; add this to the treacle, then add the eggs, well-beaten. Mix all the dry ingredients together, and to these add the liquid with sufficient milk to form a stiff paste, and stir all well up. Line two cake-tins with buttered paper, put in the mixture in equal quantities, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven. Thin Ginger Wafers. Beat four ounces of butter to a cream and mix in four ounces of golden syrup ; stir in four ounces of flour and one ounce of pounded ginger ; roll out thin, and bake for fifteen minutes in a slow oven ; roll like wafers when warm. Potato Cakes. Rub two ounces of beef dripping and two ounces of lard into one pound of flour. Add a teaspoonful of baking-powder and a pound of cold boiled and baked potatoes. Mix thoroughly with one well-beaten egg, and as much lukewarm milk as will make a smooth light paste. Roll this out about one inch in thickness, and cut in any desired shax^e. Bake in a buttered tin. A Pound Cake. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and whip up the whites in a separate basin, cream six ounces of butter, and add it to the beaten eggs. Dredge in72 TEMPTING DISHES. gradually six ounces of flour, and the same quan- tity of sugar. Mix all these ingredients lightly together, and beat the cake for half an hour. Pour it into a well-greased cake-tin and bake in a quick oven for about an hour. Scones. Dissolve half a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda and five ounces of butter in a quarter of a pint of warm milk. Put ten ounces of flour into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and stir into the milk in which the butter has been dissolved, until it is a stiff dough. Roll out into a cake a quarter of an inch thick, and bake on a girdle from twelve to fifteen minutes. Seed Cake. Rub six ounces of dripping into a pound of flour ; add a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of mixed spice, a tablespoonful of carraway seeds, and six ounces of sugar. Mix the dry ingredients tho- roughly. Dissolve a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda into half a pint of milk, add a teaspoonful of vinegar and stir into the cake. Beat the cake well, put it into a buttered hoop, and bake in a moder- ately heated oven for one hour. Soda Cake. Take a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of moist sugar, half a pound of cur- rants, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, a quarter of a pint of milk, three eggs. Mix all well together, and bake immediately.TEMPTING DISHES. 73 Tea Cakes. Take three eggs, beat the yolks and mix them with half a pound of flour, and four ounces of castor sugar. Beat six ounces of fresh butter to a cream, add the other ingredients gradually to the butter, and mix most thoroughly. Roll it out, and cut it into strips five inches long, and twist each strip into the shape of an S. Brush each one over with white of egg, and sugar slightly. Bake in a mode- rate oven for twenty minutes. Prairie Oyster. Take a wineglass, put into it half a teaspoon- ful of vinegar, break a new-laid egg into it, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle it with vinegar, and swallow like an oyster. Green Barley Water. This is a capital drink for garden and lawn- tennis parties, etc. It is made by peeling three lemons very thinly, so that there is no white pith, placing to them a quart of boiling water, five or six large lumps of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of the juice. When cold and the water is highly flavoured, take out the peel and stand the jug on ice. Lemon Squash. Press the juice from some lemons, and strain it free from all particles. To two quarts of juice put in a piece of alum as large as a walnut, and a piece of Spanish earth about the same size. In the morning the juice will be clear ; gently pour it74 TEMPTING DISHES. off, or to its own bulk of white sugar add one pint of water ; stir over a gentle fire till the sugar is dis- solved ; add the shell and white of one egg whisked a little, whip it into the lemon syrup and continue till it boils. Give a sharp boil up, strain through a cambric cloth, and bottle. The bottles must be very dry. Put two drops of essence of lemon in each, fill up with cold syrup and seal. One wine- glassful in a tumbler three parts filled with ice, and add soda-water from a syphon ; serve with straws. To Cook an Old Fowl. Prepare the fowl for roasting, stuff it with bread- crumbs, parsley, and a little sweet herb, a very small onion, salt, pepper. Truss securely and boil for three hours, and it will eat as good as a young fowl. Cooking Hints. Royal icing must always be mixed with a wooden spoon, adding a few drops of lemon to make the icing whiter. Mutton chops should be broiled over a clean but not fierce fire ; pour a little salad oil over the chops, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt an hour before broiling them. Asparagus, to Boil. The special pots now sold are a great boon to lovers of asparagus, because in them asparagus can be boiled vertically. The asparagus should be put in upright, with the points at the top. Then, if the salted water is kept very fast boiling at a level not much more than half the height of the asparagus,75 TEMPTING DISIIES. it may be given more than double the usual time, which is a great advantage, because the lower part is made tender and edible, while the frail green portion is never touched by the water, and takes its due time to soften and swell without losing shape. Forty minutes will not harm them. There is an asparagus saucepan sold by Wilson & Co., Wardour Street, in which it is impossible to cook them any- thing but perfectly. Spinach, to Cook. Boil the spinach with very little water, and put it into a saucepan with a little butter, pepper and salt, an eggspoonful of castor sugar; thicken with a little flour, and then add a little cream and let it boil. Eggs, to Poach. Just a drop of vinegar should be put into the water, which should be boiling before the eggs are put into it. After each egg has been put into the pan the water should reboil before another egg is put into it; and the eggs should be rinsed in fresh hot water when they are cooked. Baking. To bake properly and get the oven properly and quickly hot the flues must be very clean. The oven should be heated to a temperature above that of boiling water, and it must be perfectly hot at starting. The ventilator should be shut at first, but in about ten minutes’ time it should be opened. Meat should be baked on a proper tin,76 TEMPTING DISHES. that is a double one, and placed on a gridiron in the upper tin, and the under tin filled with hot water. The joint must be basted every fifteen minutes and done as quickly as possible, as the oven-door should not be kept open. If one side is getting more brown than the other, turn it round. Keep the fire up so that the oven is kept hot all the time. Meat baked requires ten minutes for every pound to cook it; if there be much fat, it will take a little longer. Do not bake meat and pastry at the same time, as the steam renders the crust heavy. Boiling. The water must be violently boiling and the meat suddenly put into it, and the boiling must not be stopped by the insertion of the meat, but must continue incessantly for from ten to fifteen minutes, after which it should be reduced to a simmer till done. The scum rising to the top must be skimmed off from time to time ; a little salt should be put into the water when about half-done. This rule for boiling meat does not apply to fish, as nearly all kinds, especially turbot and cod, must be put into cold water and brought to a boil gradually. Salmon and trout are best put into boiling water, and soles and all small fish into ivarm water only. Broiling. The fire for broiling should be hot and clear; the gridiron should be close down on the fire, and gradually raised as cooking proceeds.77 TEMPTING DISHES. Frying. To fry properly, plenty of boiling fat must be used and enough to cover whatever is being fried, and it must be hot enough to colour a piece of bread directly it is thrown in—in fact, the fat should smoke. Everything should be dried before it is fried, and if plunged then into hot fat, a very little time is sufficient to cook it. When the crackling ceases it shows the fat is hotter than water. All fried things should be well drained when taken off the grid, and the fat should be poured into a basin containing a little hot water and let stand till it is cold, when it will do to use again and again if the part next the water is scraped to take off the impurities which will collect there. Roasting. The fire and utensils should be thoroughly hot at starting; for if not, and the temperature is only very warm, the effect is to soften and to sodden the surface of the meat, from which it will not recover afterwards ; and the result would be the meat would be drained of a large portion of its vital elements, leaving the surface soft to the end, and destitute of the brownness which is the sign of well-roasted meat. It is very important the meat should be well basted at intervals of about twenty minutes, and it should be done quickly and not too often. Stewing. Meat to be stewed should be put into cold water or cold stock, and set on a good fire till itn TEMPTING DISHES. simmers. It must never get beyond simmering or it will spoil. It is a very slow process, extending to many hours, to a whole day or even two days. The water must not boil. The water must be kept nearly boiling, and when it is in this state little infinitesimal small bubbles will appear every now and then at the edges, and it must never be allowed to get beyond that point. The time for simmering should be from ten to twelve minutes for every pound of meat. Hints to Cooks. Salted and dried meats should be slowly boiled, and liquid must not be allowed to cool in pewter vessels. Rapid boiling hardens meat. Fat for frying must be perfectly fresh. Fresh trimmings of meat should be used in the stock pot. Avoid skewers in meat as much as possible. Always blow off the dust before removing the lid of a saucepan. Never leave anything in the pot after it has boiled. Never throw animal or vegetable substances into the dust-bin, they should be burnt on the kitchen fire. Have a time and place for everything. Cold meat is best if not cut when warm. Fresh vegetables will snap crisply. Stale ones will bend instead of break. Meat can be preserved in summer by covering it with bran.n TEMPTING DISHES. Cooking utensils should always be wiped dry after using. Meat should never be washed, but wiped with a dry cloth. Cooking for dinner should commence early in the day, for hurry and good cooking can never go together. Be careful in dishing vegetables to drain them perfectly from the water. Meat should always be kept in a current ofTERMS USED IN COOKING AND IN THE KITCHEN Allemande : Reduced white sauce thickened with cream and yolks of egg and seasoned with lemon-juice. Angelica : A preserve used for decorating. Aspic: A savoury jelly. Assiette : Small entrees and hors-d’oeuvres, not more than a plate will hold. Assieties volantes'. Dishes handed and not put on the table. Atelits : Small silver skewers used in garnishing. An bleu : Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a bluish, appearance. Atigras : Dressed with meat gravy. Au jus : In the natural juice or gravy. Au naturel: Plain simple cooking. Baba : A kind of light sweet cake. Bain-marie : A metal pan which has a loose bottom to hold water,, into which small saucepans can be put for keeping warm. Barole : A thin slice of fat bacon placed over steaks, fowls, &c.,. instead of larding. Batterie de anisine: A complete set of necessary apparatus for all culinary purposes. Bechamel: A rich white sauce made with cream. Beignet: A pancake or fritter. Bisque : A soup made with shell fish. Blanc : White broth. Blanch '. To parboil, to scald vegetables, &c., in order to remove skins, &c., and to whiten poultry. Blanquette'. A kind of fricassee made with white sauce and thickened with yolk of egg. Bligner: To fritter anything in buttered egg and fry. Boudin : A rich mixture of different meats minced. Bouilli: Beef much boiled. Bouillon : A thin soup or broth. Bouquet: Simply parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf tied together. Bouquet garni ; The same with the addition of cloves. Bourguignote : A ragoflt of truffles. Braise : Meat cooked with bacon in a closely covered stewpan, to prevent evaporation. Gs-i TERMS USED IN COOKING Braisib-e: A saucepan with ledges tc the lid, so as tc put fire on the top. Brider : To truss fowls with a needle and thread. Brioche : A kind of light spongy cake. Buisson : A cluster or bush of anything piled on a dish. Callipash : The glutinous flesh of the turtle found on the upper shell. Callipee : The sanif found on the under shell. Cannelons : Small rolls of anything filled with meat, fruit, or minces. Capilotade : A hash of poultry. Caramel: Burnt sugar. Casserole : A crust of rice, which, having been moulded to the re- quired shape, is filled with mince, fricassee, See. Charlotte : Thin slices of bread steeped in clarified butter and placed in a plain mould with fruit or cream. Chartreuse: An ornamental entree composed chiefly of quenelle forcemeat and arranged in a plain mould. Chemiser : To line a mould. Civet: A dark thick stew. Compote : Stewed fruits served with syrup. Confiture : Preserves, sweets, jams, Sec. Consommi : Strong clear gravy or broth. Contisi: Small scallops of truffles, tongue, Sec., inlaid as ornaments by incision in fillets of any kind. Coulis : A rich brown gravy. Cou?-onne, en : To dish up entrees in the form of a crown. Croquantes : A bright mixture of fruit and boiled sugar. Croquettes : Minces of meat, fish, or fowl made into various shapes, rolled in egg and bread-crumbs and fried crisp. Croustades : Fried shapes of bread upon which various entrees are served. CroiUons : Fried sippets of bread used for garnish. Dariole : A sweet tart baked in a mould. Daube, en : Meat, fowl, or game stewed in sauce. Daubiere : An oval stewpan. Desosser: To bone poultry, game, fish, Sic. Entrie: Dishes handed round after the fish, comprising cutlets, salmis, chartreuses, and all made dishes, Sec. Entremets : Second-course dishes, comprising dressed vegetables, savouries, and sweets of all kinds. Escalopes : Collops, small thin round pieces of meat, poultry, or fish. Espagnole : Brown sauce, very rich. • Fagot: A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay leaf. Eanchonneltes : Varieties of small pastry meringued over. Farce : Forcemeat stuffing. Farcie : Stuffed. Feuillctage: Rough paste.83 AND IN THE KITCHEN. flair : A French custard. Flamber : To singe fowls or game. Flans : Varieties of French cheese cakes. Florentines 1 Light pastry iced over. Foncer: To put slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of the sauce' pan. Fondue : A cheese dish of the souffle order. Fricandeaux: A dish of lamb or veal cookery, &c., without bone larded and glazed with a concentration of their own liquor. Fricassee: Chickens, &c., cut in pieces and cooked in rich white sauce with mushrooms and other accessories. Fritter : Anything made in batter and fried. Galelte : A broad thin cake, a kind of muffin. Gateau: A cake. Gaufres : Light spongy biscuits. Glad: Anything iced. Glaze: Stock boiled down to jelly. Godiveau: A variety of forcemeats. Gras : Made with meat. Gratin : A forcemeat made with meat and thin panee. Gratiner: To grill. Haricot: A stew made with mixed vegetables and meat. Hors-d'oeuvres : These are appetisers, or whets to the appetite, and eaten before soup, and consist of sardines, oysters, and anchovies, caviare, foreign dried sausages, &c. Jardinilre : Vegetables stewed in their own sauce. Lardoon : The strips of bacon used for larding. Liaiso7i: A mixture of cream and egg, used to thicken with. Lit: Thin slices in layers with seasoning between. Luting : A paste made of flour and water and used to fasten on the lids to pie-pans when preserving game, in order to prevent evaporation. MacSdoine : A mixture of vegetables with the addition of some kind of sauce. Macedoine of fruit: A mixture of fruits in syrup. Madeleine : A kind of queen cake ornamented with preserve and sugar, See. Maigre: Without meat. Mask : To cover meat over with forcemeat, &c- Matelote : A rich fish stew made with wine. Mayonnaise : Salad dressing. Mazarine : An ornamental entree. Menu : Bill of fare. Meringues : Light pastry made with whites of egg and sugar. Mirlitons : Varieties of French cheese-cakes. Miroton : Slices of meat, larger than collops, stewed in rich sauce and dished up in a round.TERMS USED IN COOKING, ETC. &4 Moitiller: To add broth or water during cooking. Nougat: A mixture of almond and burnt sugar and lemon-juice Nouilles : Strips of paste made of eggs and flour. Panada'. A mixture of bread, milk, &c., used in making force* meats. Paner: To egg and bread-crumb. Papillotes: Greased paper fastened over fish and cutlets. P&te : A small pie. Paupiettes : Slices of meat rolled. Piiee de resistance : The principal joint of the dinner. Pilau : A dish of meat or poultry with rice. Piping'. Sugar decorations used in ornamenting cakes, pastry, &c. Pique'. Larded. Pluche '. Leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, &c., cut very small. Poe lee : Stock used instead of water for boiling. Potage '. Soup. Printaniers : Early spring vegetables. Profiteroles : Light pastry with cream inside. Purte : Meat and vegetables reduced to a pulp and then mixed with other liquids to the consistency of thick soup. Quenelles : Delicate forcemeat formed into balls and poached. Ragodt'. Quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, &c., mixed in a rich sauce. Relevi: The remove dishes. Remolade: Salad dressing. Rissoles: Pastry made of light puff paste filled with minces and fried. Roux : A mixture of butter and flour used for thickening soups and sauces ; there are two kinds, white and brown. Salmi: A highly finished hash of game or wild fowl with a rich sauce. Salpicon : A mixture of different finely chopped meats. Sauce piquante : A sharp sauce, vinegar or lemon predominating. Sauter: To cook in a saucepan with sauce, constantly shaking it. Serviette, d la : Served up in a table-napkin. Sippets \ Small pieces of bread cut into different shapes, fried and used for garnish. SoufflS: Alight pudding. Stock : The broth of which soups are made. Tamis, tammy: A strainer or fine sieve for straining broth, sauces, creams, &c., through. Timbale : A sort of pie made in a mould. Tourle : Tart fruit pie baked in a shallow dish. Trife \ A sweet dish made of sponge cake, macaroons, jam, wines, and liqueurs. Trousser: To truss. VelouU'. A very rich white sauce.INDEX. Albert sandwiches, 33 Anchovy cream toasts, 4S ■— sauce, 66 Apple compote, 32 Apple fritters, 33 — sauce, 56 Apples & l’enfance, 32 Asparagus, to boil, 75 Baked eggs, 48 Baking, 75 Banana fritters, 34 Barley water, green, 73 Batter puddings, 34 Beef, fillets of, with mushrooms, 10 — hashed, with tomatoes, 10 — trifles, 11 Beefsteak pudding, 11 — stewed, 11 Biscuits, crisp, 70 — devilled, 54 Blancmange chocolate, 35 Bloaters’ brains on toast, 49 Bloater puree, 49 — roes, 49 — stuffed, 49 Boiling, 76 Bread sauce, 66 Breakfast dish, 50 Brochet of smelts, § Brodetto of fish, 5 Broiling, 75 Cabbage & la creme, 5° — and tomato, 50 Calf’s brains with black butter 12 — head fritters, 12 Cakes, cornflour, 70 — drop, 70 — gingerbread, 70 — pound, 71 — seed, 72 — soda, 73 — tea, 73 Cannelons, French, 36 Caper sauce, 66 Carrot pudding, 34 Celery, fried, 51 — a la parmesan, 51 — soup, 1 Champignons a la Bordelaise 5i Cheese cakes, lemon, 39 — custards, 51 — pudding, 52 — tartlets, 52 Chicken croustades, 13 — cutlets, 1386 INDEX. Chicken, fried, 13 Chocolate blancmange, 33 — pudding, 35 Colcannon, 52 Convent eggs, 53 Cooking hints, 74 Cornflour cake, 70 Croustades of chicken, 13 Croutes h la campagne, 53 •— of haddock, 53 Crumb pudding, 35 Curried eggs on toast, 14, 54 Curry, lamb’s head, 17 — tomato, 29 Cutlets, chicken, 13 — egg, 14 — lamb, if* — lobster, 17 — potato, 24 Devilled biscuits, 54 — lobster, 54 — sardines, 54 Drop cakes, 70 Duck, stewed, 70 Dumplings, Norfolk, 40 — yeast, 47 Eel au gratin, 6 Eels, stewed, 6 Eggs, baked, 48 — a la bonne femme, 35 — cutlets, 14 -— kromeskies, 15 — and mushrooms, 35 — sauce, 67 — to poach, 79 Empress rice, 36 Epigram of lamb, 15 Fig mould, 36 — pudding, 37 Fillets of beef with mush- rooms, 10 Finnon haddock with eggs, 55 Fish quenelles, 6 Floating island, 37 Frying, 76 Gascony butter, 56 General satisfaction pudding, 1<7 Gingerbread cake, 70 — pudding, 38 Ginger wafers, "Jl Gooseberry fool, 58 Grenada toasts, 56 Haddock souffles, 7 Ham balls, 56 — toast, 56 Haricot mutton, 15 Hasty pudding, 38 Hints to cooks, 78 Florse-radish sauce, 67 Jerusalem artichokes and cheese, 57 Junket, 39 Kidney fritters, 18 •— soup, 2 — and tomato, 18 Kromeskies, 19 Lamb cutlets au parmesan, 16 — epigram of, 15 Lamb’s fry, 16 — head curry, 17 Lemon cheese-cakes, 39 — pudding, 39 — squash, 73 — tart, 40 — whip, 40 Lobster sauce, 67INDEX. 87 Macaroni <\ l’ltalienne, 57 Mackerel with black butter, 7 Meat fritters, 20 .— toast, 20 Melted butter, 67 Milanese timbale, 30 Mushroom cutlets, 21 — roulades, 26 — au gralin, 58 —- with toast, 58 Mustard sauce, 68 Mutton chops aux legumes, 22 — collops, 21 — leg of, boned, 12 — & la marini£re, 22 — en robe de chambrc, 22 Mussels ci la Rochelle, 7 Norfolk dumplings, 40 Omelet, sweet, 47 Onion soup, 2 Onions h l’etoile, 23 Orange fool, 41 — meringue pudding, 4! — pudding, 41 Oyster sauce, 68 Failles de parmesan, 58 Parsley sauce, 69 Pear croquettes, 42 — marmalade, 42 — stewed, 43 Pigeons en capote, 23 Pippin tarts, 53 Piquante sauce, 69 Potatoes and bacon, 59 — baked, with cheese, 59 — cakes, 71 — and cheese patties, 59 — cutlets, 24 — and ham sandwiches, 39 — k la Lyonnaise, 60 — k la maitre d'hotcl, 60 Potatoes, puff, Go — stuffed, 61 — soup, 3 Pound cakes, 71 Prairie oyster, 73 Pudding, batter, 34 — beefsteak, 11 — carrot, 34 — cheese, 52 — chocolate, 35 — crumb, 35 — fig, 37 — general satisfaction, 37 — gingerbread, 38 — hasty, 38 — lemon, 39 — orange, 41 meringue, 41 — ratafia, 44 — sausage, 27 — Stanley, 47 — Yorkshire, 32 Rabbit, minced, 24 — a la poulette, 25 — a la Tartarc, 25 Ragouts, 25 Raspberry trifle, 44 Ratafia pudding, 44 Rhubarb cream, 45 Rice croquettes, 45 — and cheese, 68 — fritters, 45 — with parmesan, 61 Risotto, 26 — a la Milanaisc, 61 Roasting, 77 Rolled jelly cake, 45 Rump steak a la bonne bouche, 27 Salmon, cold, to dress, 7 Sardines, devilled, 54 Sauce, anchovj, 66 — apple, 66INDEX. 88 Sauce, bread, 66 — caper, 66 — egg, 67 — horse-radish, 67 — lobster, 67 — mustard, 68 — onion, 68 — oyster, 68 — parsley, 69 — piquante, 69 Sausage pudding, 27 Savoury moulds, 27 Scones, 72 Scotch fritters, 47 — woodcock, 60 Seed cake, 72 Sheep’s brains, roasted, 28 — head au gratin, 28 soup, 5 Soda cake, 72 Sole a 1’Espagnole, 8 — au gratin, 8 — fillet of, Italienne, 9 k la reine, 9 Soup, celery, I game, 3 Soup, Italian, I — kidney, 2 — onion, 2 otato, 3 la Russe, 4 — sheep’s head, 5 Spinach, to cook, 74 Stanley pudding, 47 Stewing, 77 Tea cakes, 73 Tomato curry, 29 — salad, 65 Tomatoes, preserved, 46 Tongue pie, 29 Tripe & la Fran^aise, 31 Veal mould, 31 Vegetable marrow au parme- san, 65 Yeast dumplings, 47 Yorkshire pudding, 32 PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDON