■••.i'vs!•..•■Ai'V}'.*••./.•*'vJv'-..'-. >;* y.’^. i. ' V ■ ■ ...y < -L ^ ~ ^ 'y- ^ 3 ; *'..•>•»" ,v‘';i'!*>.s> ■•■■•-■■-I'.v - - ■ •,’. "'5,.... : b'-'i r'% iT ”i -y V y-, I J)t/ 1 » . St r ■ vh‘Ji'';i.yA /. »'-k' 'in*. /■■''■'■/■)/ .Ayy^Am/ ■ fr*.* ‘ -r ,<*j ' i', :22101414965Med K9166FOREIGN DESSERTS FOB ENGLISH TABLES: ^ ©alentiar for t^e Hse of l^osts anU f^ousefifcpcrs, COSTAISINO RECirES, BILLS OF FxVRE, AND DESSERT ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE WHOLE YEAR. BY THE AUTHOR OF “EVERYBODY’S PUDDING BOOK,” &c. LONDON: RICHARD BENTI.EY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 1862.6 WELLCOMF INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmoc Call No. (T ' ‘-i-CONTENTS, —•— The thiugs marked with an asterisk are available throughout the year. PAGE Almond Cake* 34 Almond Paste* 26 Almond Macaroons* 60 Amandes, &c.-, a la Royale* 132 Amandes Pralinees* 66 Apple Jelly* 122 Apricot Paste* 112 Baked Pears ' 146 Barberries in Bunches* ... 134 Barberry Cakes* 137 Biscuits a I’Orange* 64 Biscuits a la Canelle* 77 Biscuits a la Creme* 90 Biscuits a la Cuiller* 48 Biscuits an Chocolat* 48 Biscuits au Biz* 6 LIV' CONTENTS. Biscuits aux Avellincs Biscuits aux Marrons Biscuits aux Pistaclies Biscuits d’Amandes* Biscuits de Rheims* Biscuits de Presburg* Biscuits de Savoie* Biscuits en Caisse* Biscuits Provenfaux* Biscuits Souffles* Bitter Almond Macaroons* ... Black, Red, or White Currant Jellj'* Bordeaux Cake* Bullace Cheese* I’AOE 155 13G 143 21 20 36 35 60 156 73 76 100 120 135 Candied Marmalade* 158 Candied Orange or Lemon Chips* 41 Cerises Groseillees ... ... ... ... ... 101 Citron Macaroons* 155 Cocoa-nut Cake 142 Cocoa-nut Macaroons 21 Compote d’Abricots 109 Compote d’Abricots Verts 78 Compote d’Amandes Vertes 78 Compote d’Ananas 121 Compote d’Epine-vinette 132 Compote d’Oranges 24 Compote d’Oranges a I’llalicnue 52 Compote dc Cerises 85V CONTENTS. Compote de Citrons PAGE 52 Compote de Coings 157 Cpmpote de Praises 85 Compote de Pramboises 100 Compote de Grenades 157 Compote de Groseilles 90 Compote de Groseilles Vertes 78 Compote de Marrous 156 Compote de Marrons a I’ltalienne ... 144 Compote de Marrons an Rhum 39 Compote de Melon 110 Compote de Pate de Marrons 158 Compote de Peebes 110 Compote de Pommes a I’Espagnole ... 145 Compote de Pommes a I’lndienne ... 40 Compote de Poires a la Cardinale ... 145 Compote de Pommes a la Demidoff 53 Compote de Pommes a la Normande* 53 Compote de Pommes a la Ticinese ... 25 Compote de Printaniere 79 Compote de Pruneaux* 24 Compote de Prunes 111 Compote de Raisin 121 Compote de Rhnbarbe 39 Compote de TaiUadins d’Oranges 38 Compote of Bullaces 131 Compote of Damsons 121 Compote of Greengages 100 Compote of Morello Cherries 120CONTENTS. VI Compote of Siberian Crabs ... • • • • • • PAGE 157 Compotes a la Mode ... 99 Confiture de Citrous or Oranges* ... 66 Confiture de Figues* • • • • • • . •. 125 Confiture de Fleurs d’Oranger* • • • • • • ... 87 Confiture de Fraises* ••• . • . 88 Confiture de Groseilles a Maquerand* . • * 86 Confiture de Marrons* • • • • • • .. . 65 Confiture de Tiges d’Angelique* ••• ... ... 86 Confiture of Green Codlins* ... ••• ... 87 Confitures a I’Eau de Vie* ... ••• ... 91 Confitures a la Valencienne* • • • • • • 77 Concombres Confits au Sucre* ••• ••• 122 Cream Cake* ... ... 72 Croquants a la Russe* ... ... 23 Croquants a la Vesuve* ... ... ... 50 Croquignoles a I’lmperiale* ... ... ... ... 62 Croquignoles a la Parisienne* ... ... • • • 74 Cup Cakes* ... ... ... 142 Currant Cakes* ... ... ... 113 Currant Paste or Cheese* ... 103 Damson Cheese* ... 124 French Macaroons* ... ... ... 135 French Marmalade of Orange or Lemon* ... ... 26 Fresh Fruit,in Salad ... ... ... 89 Fromage a la Chantilly* • •. ... ... 79 Fruit Pcrle ... ... . . . 88vn CONTENTS. Fruit preserved in Brandy* ... ... PAGE 126 Gaufres* f • • 63 Gel6e de Bar* • • • ... 98 Gel4e de Cerises* • 103 Gel6e d’lSpine-vinelte* • t • 133 Genoese Cake* ... •... «»• • •• • 47 Glaces a rAnanas 160 Glaces a la Creme de Vanille* • • • ... 54 Glaces a la Creme de Venus ... • • • ... 149 Glaces h. la Framboise ... 91 Glaces an Cassis • • • ... 115 Glaces au Melon ... 126 Glaces au Baisin • • • ... 137 Glaces aux Abricots • « » ... 104 Glaces de Cafe a la Creme* ... 160 Glaces de Chocolat a la Creme* 67 Glaces de Creme au Th6* • • ... 41 Glaces de Creme aux Amandes* • • • ... 67 Gooseberry Paste* • • • ■ 89 Grapes in Brandy* ... 125 Greengage Marmalade* • •• 111. Greengage Plums au Sucre* • •• 115 Guirlandes Printanii:res* ... ... 76 Imperial Rice Cake* ... ... ... 84 Lemon Cake* 154Vlll CONTENTS. Macarons au Eiz* PAGE 74 Macarons aux Fleurs d’Oranger* 49 Macarons de Hollandc* 90 Macarons Souffles* 61 Madeira Cake* 19 Massepains a 1’Arabe* 75 Massepains a I’Espagnole* ... 64 Massepains a la Ducliesse* ... 37 Massepains a la Fraiifaise* ... « 49 Massepains au Chocolat* ...' 22 Massepains aux Fruits 97 Massepains de Pistaclies 155 Marmelade d’Abricots* 114 Marmelade d’Ananas* 125 Marmelade d’l5pine-vinette* 146 Marmelade de Cerisis* 98 Marmelade de Goings* 149 Marmelade de Framboises* ... 102 Marmelade de Peches* 112 Marmelade de Poires* 133 Marmelade de Pommes* 147 Marmelade de Verj us* 137 Marrons Glacis* 134 Medlar Jelly* 147 Melange de Fruit 101 Meringues a Tltalienne* 75 Meringues aux Amandes* 50 Meringues Farcies* 21 Meringues Ordinaircs* 136ix CONTENTS. Mixed jMarmalade* ... Morello Cherries in Brandy* Mulberry Jelly* Naples Biscuits* Nesselrode Cream* ... Noix Confites au Sucre* Nougat* Nun’s Cake* 112 113 123 91 54 102 51 ... ' 109 Orange or Lemon Paste or Biscuits* Oranges Glacees* 5L 25 PMe ii la Hollandaise* Pate Croquante a I’ltalienne* Pate d’Amandes Croquante* Pate de Marrons* Pate de Pommes* Pate de Veijus* Pains de Marrons Pains de Prusse* Petits Pains de Turin Petits Sofflcs a I’ltalienne Petits Souffles* Pistachio Cake Pistachio Cream* Plain Seed Cake* Plaisir* Plum Cake* ... 62 74 37 38 159 124 23 51 38 27 118 131 42 73 148 153 hX CONTENTS. I’AGE Puires Blunclies ... ... ... ... ... 40 Poircs Coiifites au Sucre* ... ... ... ... 134 Poires ou Pommes Tapees 159 Pomnies a rAIlemaiicle 132 Pommes a la Portugaise ... ... 113 Pound Cake* ... ... ... ... ... ... 35 Portugal Cake* ... 154 I’ortuguese Macaroons* ... ... ... ... 144 Preserved Golden Pippins* 124 Preserved Nectarines* 103 Preserved Siberian Crabs ... ... ... ... 147 Prussian Cake* 109 Queen Cakes* ... 47 Quince Jelly* ... ... ... ... ... 159 Quince Paste* 144 Raisinc* 123 Raspberry Paste* ... ... • ... ... ... 98 Ratafias* ... ... ... ... ... ... 3G Rice Cake* 19 Royal Rice Cake* 47 Saffron Cake* ... ... ... ... ... 59 Salade d’Oranges 41 Salade de Pcches 114 Savoy Cake* ... ... ■ 84 Scotch Marmalade* 65 Scotch Seed Cake* 120CONTENTS. Small Sponge Cakes* Sponge Cake* Stone Fruits a I’Espagnole* Sultana Cake* ... To ice Vin de Champagne* To ice Water* Tourons* Tourons de differentes Couleui’s* Vienna Cake* xi PAGE 14-3 59 114 131 28 91 63 .27 . 73INTEODUCTION. The Dessert has been, not inaptly, described as being a “ charming field of battle given up to a troop of joyous foragers.” "We are supposed to have strug- gled manfully through the previous phases of the re- past, and having defeated and driven away the baser edibles, victory and its fruits reward us for our zeal. And since “ all the world’s a stage,” then surely is dinner the most interesting and principal performance that takes place upon it—a daily drama in which the finishing is, or ought to be, the crowning of the work ; for whether the play has commenced with a prelude of potage or an overture of oysters, all the services which succeed until the appearance of the last are but preliminaries which, when united, simply form the preface, or, more properly speaking, the prologue of the most important, the last, the culminating course of all—The Dessert. Drom the beginning of the banquet the interest has been gradually and skilfullyeteetbodt’s dessert booe. o ■worked up ; the plot has steadily thickened, until the scene is shifted to the dessert, and we are afforded either a delightful denouement or, as it sometimes turns out, a deplorable catastrophe. Oh, Amphi- tryons all! have it your care that the piece ends not terribly, but triumphantly! It should be the epic or heroic of an entertainment. Do not compromise the character of an otherwise decent dinner by providing but an indifferent dessert. Think of the magnificent means at your disposal, the trophies of fruit, the treasures of wine, the gem-like jellies, the dainty sweets, and the glorious flowers you may call into re- quisition ! Make the most of so elegant an observance as a dessert, and celebrate it weH. Profusion is not needful; taste is everything; then endeavour to evince a certain style in serving what you have, and though you have but little at command, try and testify to your friends in what dear honour they are held, not by the substantiality of the refreshments you spread before them, but by the refinement, the lightness, the delicacy of the “ friandises” which you can make to embellish 3mur table, and appear to be invested with the grace of votive offerings spread before your guests. Dinner may be said to sustain the body and dessert the mind. It is no longer a question of deriving ma- terial sustenance from what is before us ; it is under-IlfTEODUCTIO^s". 3 stood that the mere animal instinct of hunger has already been appeased, finer senses than gustativeness have now to be gratified, we are to be propitiated principally by effect—the current of ideas has to be directed, imagination awakened, the heart made cheerful, and the olfactory and the visual organs agreeably excited. To do all this the dessert should be made to resemble as much as possible an al fresco entertainment, not only the viands and embellish- ments, but each individual convive contributing to the furtherance of this end; and it fortunately hap- pens that by the time the last “entremets” has been removed from the table, and the last drop of choice Medoc has been drained from our glasses, we have acquired the most desirably-pronounced festive quali- fications: constraint has quite disappeared, we own ourselves entirely at ease, the embarrassing feeling of isolation each experienced at the opening of the banquet has given place to pleasurable sensations of responsive amity, and from a fully-satisfied appetite has resulted the tenderest sympathy for our fellow- convives ; conversation no longer languishes, but is animated and general, eyes brighten, cheeks glow, wines circulate, mirth predominates, and we are irre- sistibly captivated and enchanted by the display of only those things which are susceptible of inspiring agreeable ideas, by promoting our mental rather than B 2ETEETBODX’S DESSEET BOOK. 4 our material enjoyment. Of course tliis picture does not apply to those ungenerous churls ■whose ideas of the duties of dessert-giving are so narrow that they are content to carry out their conviviality through the medium merely of Marsala and hard biscuits, or simply sherry and seed-cake, or only “ home-made ginger” and dried figs. Of these mean-spirited people I do not speak, but only allude to those whose hospi- tality has been ripened and perfected by length of practice, and who have learnt to take a kindly inte- rest both in the variety of the comestibles with which they regale their guests, and in the equally important auxiliary—the embellishment of their tables. By this I do not call upon you to be elaborate in ornamenta- tion; if you attend to contrast in the arrangement of colours, and with this combine suggestiveness in the decorative materials of which you avail yourself, the attractiveness of the most humble refreshment will be heightened, and we shall feel urged on to enjoyment: for instance, if real flowers fail us, we will use the choicer kinds of evergreens, or fresh moss, or rich lace paper; but if artiBcial ornaments are called into re- quisition, we will not descend to such paltry appli- ances as flowers composed of paper, but, can we possibly procure them, we will have them fashioned out of wax; these carry our thoughts away into blooming gardens, and remind us of nectar-gatheringIFTEODUCTIOIT. O bees, and quaint tbatclied Lives, and golden Loney- combs, besides awakening no end of artistic associa- tions. With most of us English, however, there is a strong prejudice against the introduction of any flowers upon the dinner-table; they are eyed angrily in that they are not eatable, and as for appreciating them on account of the eflect they produce, why “Tart scenique” is plainly a poison to John Bull, who has no notion of approving of anything that is a mere “ object de holes” and an article that is offered to his attention at meal times which is not likely to sustain his inner man, he is inclined to- consider as an impertinent distraction, a vain super- fluity which unjustly interferes with the due nou- rishment of his body and the perfect liberty of his mind; he has been even known to assert his con- viction that digestion is palpably impaired by the conflict that is produced from the mingling of the antagonistic floral and culinary odours, and he re- morselessly proclaims that the only pleasure derivable from the perfume of any bouquet is that which ho obtains from the bouquet of his boftle! And in con- sequence of entertaining such perverted opinions, need we be surprised at the unhappy Bull being afflicted with a well-deserved and perennial dyspepsia ? a dys- pepsia, however, that he does not hesitate endea- vouring to doctor himself for even at the dessert i6 eveetbodt’s desseet book. Yes, tliough he be so cruelly insensible to the ex- ternal attractions of the jewels of vegetation as to regard not the beauty of a blooming peach or rosy apjjle, he does not scruple publicly to make trial of the medicinal virtues they may possess; and is ho subject to psoriasis, or any other complaint of a cuta- neous kind, he boldly helps himself to raspberries, or any other berries bearing a good character as an anti- scorbutic ; is he corpulently inclined, then he takes an attenuant such as figs ; should he require a resto- rative, and yet avow teetotal leanings, he indulges in some dates or raisins dried; needs he nourishing, being of a lymphatic temperament, he partakes plentifully of nuts or other known astringents; suffers he from the truly national disorder, indigestion, he administers to himself some mulberries, or such-like speedily-dis- posed-of things ; are his teeth otherwise than pearly in complexion, he eats heartily of strawberries; and should he determine to set up as sentimental, he applies himself to plums, which he imagines produce a slight yet pleasing depression of the spirits. More than this, some epicures, who are also somewhat hypochon- driac, advise an admixture of various fruits, such as almonds with green figs, nuts with new grapes, al- monds with raisins, &c., which are said to be more wholesome when eaten together. But whether we take our fruit only as a medicinal ordinance, or regaleINTEODTJCTIOK. 7 ourselves upon it as a luxury, we will not aim at being recherche by striving to procure it for our desserts before it is naturally ripe; premature enjoyments are generally imperfect, and if we anticipate tbe proper season for tbe productions of nature we are generally led into disappointment. Knowing tins, I have, in tbe course of my calendar, avoided noticing any fruits until tbe time when, in horticultural parlance, they may be considered as quite “ come.” I may here state that tbe way in which some kinds of fruit are served on tbe Continent differs in many respects from tbe English manner. In tbe first place, melons, green figs, and olives, are mostly considered as hors d’oeuvres, being usually presented at tbe beginning of tbe repast, and, with the exception of tbe former, very rarely ranking as dessert fruits. With us, strawberries are served in their natural state, that is to say, retaining their lovely green stems and calicos; abroad, these ornamental appendages are carefully removed and tbe fruit heaped high in an undecorated dish; it is then occasionally sprinkled over witb powdered sugar. Easpberries, too, are similarly deprived of their stalks, which we look upon as their principal pride' being, when in a good state, so pleasantly indicative of their freshness; this fruit is likewise sent to table piled up in a dish without any accompaniment of foliage to set ofi’ the splendour of its colour. Currants are not in-8 eyeetbody’s desseet book. troduced in bunches as they usually are with us, but are strictly picked from their stalks and placed in pyramids upon glass dishes with no leaves about them; they are also frequently subjected to the indignity of an ablution before being sent to table. Cherries are arranged upon plates covered with vine-leaves, the stalks of the fruit being sometimes shortened and placed inwardly so as to hide them from observation. Green almonds, when quite young, are simply placed in a dish garnished with green leaves; if the shell have begun to harden, half of it requires to be re- moved with a knife, the almond remaining whole in the other half of the shell. Plums, peaches, apricots, nectarines, &c., should be interspersed wnth foliage and placed in a corbeille, or compotier, which should be also decorated with leaves. Pomegranates, the king of fruits, are first opened and the interior grains well separated; it is then arranged in a glass dish, in the centre of which is often placed a pyi-amid of powdered loaf-sugar. Apples, pears, and oranges, most frequently appear peeping among green moss in ornamental bas- kets. Grapes should be divided into medium-sized bunches, and served, tastefully decorated with leaves. Dried fruits, when classed among the candies, may be prettily arranged upon lace paper of various colours; they may otherwise be simply presented in small baskets or fanciful dishes. Warmed things are butLN'TEODTJCTION. 9 seldom seen at desserts, except chesnuts, wliich are served between a folded napkin ; oranges, also, may be heated slightly and sent to table in the same fashion, but it is not a commendable custom. Before ending, I must advert to the Continental habit of in- troducing the cheese with the dessert; whether this is a step forward in refinement, or the reverse, I will not attempt to decide, but as cheese is now so very rarely partaken of as an entremets, I really see no- thing against its being served with the sweets as it was in Shakspeare’s time; and, indeed, with all due respect for the merits of the most skilfully com- pounded confectionaxy, I side with Sir Boger de Co- verley in thinking that a day or a dinner is well ended which has been brought to a close with anything so excellently good as a “golden pippin and Cheshire cheese of the most mellow.” And now for the wines—a word about wines is always welcome. DESSERT WINES. Champagne. Bordeaux. Ai: still and sparkling. Sillery; sparkling. Sillery; rose, rieur de Sillery. Lafitte-Sdgur. Chateau Margaux. Bourgogne. Eoman^e: sparkling.10 DESSEET BOOK. eteetbodt’s Chambcrtin. Nuits: sparkling. Volnay: sparkling. Languedoc, &c. Cbateau-neuf du Pape: Avignon. Kibuvette: Roussillon. Muscat de Eivesaltes. Muscat de Frontignan. Muscat de Lunel. Grenache; Roussillon. Vin de paille: Colmar. Juran9on: Bearn. Lamalgue: Toulon. Vauvert: Languedoc. Mifes: Provence. Tavel: Languedoc. La Ciotat: Toulon. Portugal, &c. Port: Oporto. Bucellas. Oeras. Cavello. Spain, &c. Sberry: dry and sweet. Rota. Paxaret: sweet and dry. Manzanilla. Alicante. Val de Penas. Malaga. Bdni Carlos. Rancio. Sd tubal. Canary. Montilla. Malvoisie de TendrifFe. Sercial. San Giorgio. Africa, &c. Cape wine: red and white. Constancia. Madeira. Malvoisie de Maddre. Italy, &c. Monte Fiascone. Falemian. Florentine. Marsala. Syracuse. Picole. Lacbrvnna Cbristi. Calabria. Greece, Hungary, &c. Scbiras: Persia. Papbos: Greece. Cyiirus: Greece. Tokay: Ausbriick. Samos: Greece. Cyprus Malvoisie. Cbio: Greece. Stancbo: Greece. Sparkling Moselle. Masdeu. Domestic Wines. Ginger. Orange. Elder-flower. Raisin, &c.11 1NTE0DXJCTI02T. From so redundant a list as the above, ve can safely make a selection of wines at pleasure, regulating our choice not only according to the number of guests we intend to entertain, but at the same time gratifying our own particular views of the desirability of the dif- ferent growths offered to our notice. Most of us have our exclusive preferences, and I own there are few things in which the epicure takes, or should take, so deep an interest as his after-dinner beverage—conse- quently, there are no prejudices more profound than the prejudice bon vivants feel for or against this or that variety of wine. Some would banish both Bor- deaux and Burgundy entirely from their tables ; others are simply set against the introduction of the former at their desserts, yet delight in it for dinner ; while a few draw close distinctions on the subject, refusing to consider Chateau Margaux as anything more than a mere vin d’entremets, and being willing to admit La- fitte-Segur to the full dignity of a dessert wine. Many go further, and though they would ostentatiously indulge in a post-prandial draught of Mouton-Lafitte they would contemn unhesitatingly the proffered sparkling Yolnay as something too mean and indif- ferent to drink. However, upon so important a point as the rival claims of claret and Burgundy, I will not endeavour to bias the judgment of my reader: for- tunately, neither custom nor taste are in England12 eveeybodt’s desseet book. much in favour of the wines of Bordeaux, and the more exhilarating productions of Burgundy are allowed to retain the prerogative of appearing at our desserts. The nectar of Napoleon was Chambertin. “ I love la Bomanee, and quite agree with Eichelieu in the opi- nion that claret, in comparison, is just drinkable during the first principles of our repasts, and nothing more: while all the better Burgundies I esteem so highl}'-, that I do not blush to express a private predi- lection for Chablis when drank upon a sultry summer evening, with fresh green almonds and early cherries as accompaniments.” But for the perfect enjoyment of this innovation, everything depends upon the time, place, and circumstances of the banquet. The Chablis should be unexceptionable in quality, low in tempera- ture, though on no account iced, as notwithstanding it is a white Burgundy, and closely connected by com- patriot ties with the Anns de Champagne, the latter only of all wines are ever benefited by being subjected to the freezing process; and I am compelled to con- fess that we Britons are wont to abuse the facilities we possess of icing almost every drinkable we have an opportunity of experimenting upon. Now, instead of thus tampering with the wines of a warmer climate, it were more advisable to ripen and mellow them by submitting them, a short while before they are de-INTEODUCTIOir. 13 canted, to a heat equal in degree to their genial native air. This brings me to say a word in recommendation of Hermitage. This, though only generally imagined to rank as a second-course wine, is most useful, agree- able, and quite admissible at dessert, if of a first-rate “ cru.” There are, besides those already enumerated, many other varieties of wine which, in spite of their more humble extraction, are, if choice of their kind, not to be overlooked for dessert purposes. Most of the Macons and high Burgundies are excellent and inex- pensive ; but they should not be kept too long after importation into this country; out of their own sunny land they fret, and instead of being found to soothe and sustain the tone of our nerves, they irritate and depress them: now, as a host for the time being has charged himself with keeping up our health as well as happiness, it is to be hoped he will refiect well upon the responsibility he has incurred before he lays in a stock of those light wines under the hallucination that they will improve in quality and increase in sanitary influence by keeping. The subjoined are the most easily obtainable wines for ordinary dessert use ; Alicante, Port, Sherry, Mus- cade, Malaga, Eancio, Eota, Madeira, Juraugon, and imperial Tokay. "With nuts, almonds, &c., it is correct only to offer red wines; while with the more lusciousETEETBODT’s EES3EET BOOK. 14 fruits, biscuits, and sweets, the wines of tlie south, Champagne and white wines generally, may be pre- sented. In regard to home-made wines, we should at all times be very reluctant to place them before our convives, be the formerever so admirably comj)ounded, or the latter ever so indulgently disposed; for although Dr. Kitchener had a blind belief in tlie goodness of his choice red currant wine, we must not in this instance have the pretension of coping with him, but only sub- missively allow him to have been fully justified in praising and parading it, as it was manufactured under his own immediate supervision, and was pronounced, by the privileged few who tasted it, to be in every respect worthy of the well-acquired fame of the epi- curean oracle by whom it was recommended. Still, on an average, most domestic beverages had better be eschewed; at the best, they are only expensive failures, which it were well if housekeepers avoided attempting to make, and bon vivants refrained from patronising : of them all ginger is the safest to experiment in : even if it should not be of prime quality, it has, at all events, the merit of being wholesome.15 JANFAET. JANUAEY. Dessert for Six or Eight Persons. In the middle of the table a stand containing vases of flowers, candelabra, or baskets of fresh fruits, taste- fully arranged with foliage. If for a dessert d’elite, groups of figures or other statuary may be introduced. Gros biscuit a, couper: Madeira cake. Two compotes, viz. Compote d’oranges. Compote de poires. Two baskets of fresh fruits. Apples, oranges. Four assiettes gamies de petit four. Biscuits d’amandes. Petits soufflds a ITtalienne. Massepains au chocolat. Croquants h la Eusse. Nuts, dates, French prunes. Guava jelly, lumps of delight, sugar basins containing loaf sugar in powder, two carafes of iced water, flambeaux, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. Middle of the table : a surtout or dormant decorated with pastillages, flowers, or figures. Gros biscuit a couper: rice calce. Fromage h la Chantilly. Four compotes, viz. Compote de pruneaux. Compote de pommee k la TicinJise. Compote de pate de marrons. Compote de grenades. Two assiettes garnies de fruits crus. Pears, apples.eteeybodt’s dessert book. 16 Four petites corbeilles de petit four. Tourons de dilTdrentes couleurs. Cocoa-nut macaroons. Petites guirlandes. Pate a la Hollandaise. Four assiettes gamies de fruits candis, &c. Confitures a la Valencienne. Confiture de groseilles b, Maque- raud. Confiture d’dpine-vinette. Pate de fruits. Marrons, salade d’oranges, al- monds and raisins, Brazil and Barcelona nuts, marmalades, bifiins, preserved ginger, bon- bons, biscuits de fruits, ices, rasind, burnt almonds, gaufres, dragdes, &c. Dessert for Twelve or Eighteen Persons. Centre-piece: a plateau decorated with corbeilles of fresh flowers, plate, statuary, or ornamental can- delabra. Two gros biscuits b, couper, viz. Bordeaux cake. Scotch seed cake. Glaces a la creme au inarasquin. Glaces b, Torange. Four fromages glacds. Four corbeilles de fruits frais. Grapes: oranges. Services: medlars. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits de Rlieims. Meringues farcies. Pains de marrons. Pate d’amandes. Four assiettes variees. Oranges glacdes. Bonbons melds. Salade de grenades. Marrons glacds. Four compotes. Compote de gingembre. Compote de citrons. Compote de tailladins d’oranges. Compote de coings. Two geldes de fruits. Gelde de cassis. Gelde de cerises. Four assiettes garnies de fruits candis. Prunes, amandes. Pistaches, groseilles.17 JA>'UAET. Les quartre mendiants, varie- gated ices, pralines, batons sucres, pastilles, nuts of dif- ferent kinds, four salibres, four sugar baskets holding pounded white sugar, both perfumed and plain, iced water, can- delabra, &c. Supposing the majority of the present-day dinner- givers to he acquainted vrith most of the foreign terms now used in the menus de service, I will not apologise for availing myself of a French nomencla- ture, but for the benefit of those who are not so hap- pily enlightened, I will afford an occasional explana- tion of the less familiar phrases which are likely to be met with—e. g.: Many of the uninitiated have been frequently puzzled by meeting, in fashionable bills of fare, with a mysterious mention of “ Les quatre mendi- ants,” and have marvelled immensely at the meaning of so ominously a named article of diet. By “■ the four mendicants” are intended a combination of fil- berts, di'ied figs, almonds, and dried raisins; but, unless from the importunity with which tliey are everywhere offered to our charitable consideration, I am at a loss to account for the origin of their uninviting appel- lation. “ Petit four” is a small kind of light pastry, such as macaroons, biscuits, meringues, &c., essential for des- serts ; and I may here be permitted to remark that the “ cake” is quite an English institution, and its repre- c18 eveetbodt’s eesbeet book. seutative, the “ gros biscuit h couper,” is very rarely to be seen elsewhere. “ Pieces mont^es,” or pastillages, are a larger species of pastry, destined principally for the embellishment of the plateau; but even when we are most ambitious of attempting a display at our dessert-tables, we should be wary of aiming too high in our efforts at imitating natural objects. Pleating islands or artificial fruits, are very agreeable to contemplate when they are well executed, but it so happens that very few families or fraternities of confectioners contain a Canova to lend lustre to the art, and our eye is oftener offended than propitiated by the sorry imitations set before us in the shape of ornaments. The dormant or surtout is simply a stand decorated with flowers, fruits, or figures, which remain during the whole repast. As to any of the various dessert dishes met with under a Prench name, either a dictionary will supply a definition of them, if desired, or, upon referring to the place where they are mentioned in these XJages, a description will be found in the manner in which they are to be prepared.JAmjABY. 19 1. JIadeira cake.* 2. Eice cake.* 3. Biscuits de Rheims.* 4. Biscuits d’amandes.* 5. Cocoa-nut macaroons. 6. Jreringues farcies.* 7. Massepairis au cliocolat.* 8. Croqnants k la Russe.* 9. Pains de marrons. 10. Compote d’oranges. 11. Compote de pruneaux.* 12. Compote de pommes b, la Ticinbse. 13. Oranges glac<^es.* 14. French marmalade of orange or lemon.* 15. Almond paste.* IG. Tourons de diff^rentes cou- leurs.* 17. Petits souffles k Tltalienne.* 18. To ice champagne.* MADEIRA CAKE.* Take four large or six small fresli eggs; beat them constantly for twenty minutes, then, by degrees, add to them six ounces of fine loaf-sugar pounded and sifted, six ounces of the best wheaten flour previously well dried, and put into a dredger, so as to dredge it in gently, four ounces of dissolved, but cold, fresh butter, and a little grated lemon-peel. When these ingre- dients are thoroughly mingled, briskly stir in a salt- spoonful of carbonate of soda; put the cake quickly into a mould, and bake it for a good hour in a mode- rately heated oven. RICE CAKE.* Take half a pound each of finely powdered loaf- sugar and fresh butter, seven eggs, a quarter of a c 220 eyeetboby’s dessert book. pound eacli, dry flour and ground rice—wliicli should not be added to the other ingredients until they are all well mixed. A little rose, laurel or orange-flower water may be used to flavour it. Place it in a mould, and bake it for an hour in a gentle oven. If the eggs sliould he small, more are required to make it of the proper consistency. BISCUITS DE EHEIMS.* These celebrated biscuits are prepared in the fol- lowing manner : Separate the yolks and whites of a dozen fresh eggs, beat each apart; add to tlie yolks eighteen ounces of pounded loaf-sugar and four ounces each of wheaten flour and potato fecule; when well mixed, stir in a spoonful of candied orange-flowers first beaten smooth, and a similar quantity of essence of lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs to a high froth, put them with the other ingredients, stirring all together thoroughly but gently. Put the com- position into shallow moulds of an oblong shape • place them in an oven, and as soon as they are suf- ficiently set, take a knife, and with the back of it make each slab into divisions of the width required, that each cake may resemble a cake of chocolate and be broken into proper sized biscuits when baked more and allowed to grow cold. The tops can be glazed or not, at pleasure.21 JA2TUAET. BISCUITS D’AMANDES * Carefully blanch half a pound each of sweet and bitter almonds ; pound them in a mortar until they form a smooth paste, but add the whites of tw'O eggs to prevent the almonds from turning oily. Beat to- gether the yolks of eight eggs and a pound and a quarter of fine loaf-sugar in powder. "Well whisk the whites of the eggs; put them with the almonds; add the yolks, and gradually thicken it with four ounces of fiour rubbed together with another pound of loaf- sugar finely powdered and sifted. Lay the paste thus prepared in small paper cases, strew sugar over the tops, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, divest them of their cases. COCOA-NUT MACAROONS. Take a medium sized cocoa-nut; rasp it on a grater, and then slightly parch it in a slack oven for half am hour. To each pound of nut add the beaten whites of eight eggs and two pounds of finely powdered loaf- sugar. Form this mixture into small balls, lay them upon wafer paper or a buttered tin, and bake for twenty minutes or longer, according to the heat of the oven. MERINGUES FARCIES.* Whisk the whites of six eggs until they form a snow, add to them the rasped rind of a fresh lemon,22 eveetbodt’s desseet book. and a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar powdered and sifted. Mix this into a paste, give it the form of half balls, making each hollow or indented in the middle, place these upon paper, lay them in a very slow oven, and when sufficiently hardened place a small portion of candied fruit in the centre of half the number, cover them with the remaining halves, fasten the edges neatly, and glaze the outside. They should resemble frosted eggs made of sugar when properly managed. MASSEPAINS AU CHOCOLAT.* Take half a pound of sweet almonds, blanch them and afterwards dry them; put them into a mortar, sprinkle them with a little white of egg to prevent them from oiling, add to them three ounces of the best cake chocolate scraped smoothly; pound all to a paste, then make a strong syrup by boiling together half a pint of water and one pound of white sugar until it snaps ; add the chocolate paste; stir it over the fire for three or four minutes. Turn it out upon a board dusted with sifted sugar, roll it rather thin, and cut it into biscuits of any shape you prefer. Arrange them upon an oven-leaf, place them in a moderately heated oven, and bake them until they are of a good colour.23 JANUAET. CROQUANTS 1 LA EUSSE.* Boil ten ounces of loaf-sugar with half a pint of water until it forms a very thick syrup ; pour it into a mortar, let it cool, and add twelve ounces of fine dry flour, one ounce of powdered ginger, and six eggs. AVork it together for twenty minutes ; spread it upon a table dusted with sugar, make it into balls of the size of a walnut, flatten them slightly, lay them upon buttered paper, and bake them very slowly. PAIXS DE MARROWS. Put about a hundred Spanish chesnuts into a very slow oven until they will peel easily, Blanch them perfectly, and pound them to a paste, adding three well- beaten eggs and enough cream to enable them to pass easily through a sieve. To each pound of this strained mixture put two ounces of flour and half a pound of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar. Beat all well together, and either make it into a large cake k I’Anglaise, baking it in a hoop or mould for one hour, or form it into small biscuits, glaze the tops, and bake them upon an oven-leaf in rather a quick oven. Ten mi- nutes will do them. The Spanish way is to first bake it as a large cake, which is then cut into small slips the length of fingers; these are arranged upon but- tered paper at a distance from each other, and24 EVEIITBODX’S DESSEET BOOK. smothered in cake-icing of various colours; they are then returned to the mouth of the oven, and when the icing is set they are done. COMPOTE D’OKANGES. Take four or five sweet oranges, pull off every par- ticle of peel and white pelicule; cut them into quar- ters, take out their pips, and throw the fruit into a strong syrup, prepared with half a pint of water, ten ounces of loaf sugar, a glass of cognac, and the strained juice of two oranges. After the fruit has come to a boil retire the saucepan from the fire, lay the oranges in your dish, reduce the syrup by boiling it down and skimming it, and when cool enough pour it over the fruit. A large double handful of sugar is sometimes put in the centre of the dish just before serving; and some neat slips of the outer rind of the oranges may be advantageously added to the syrup. COMPOTE DE PRUXEAUX.* Take sufficient dried French prunes for the pur- pose, put them into an earthen pipkin, witli enough cold water to cover them, set them over a moderate fire, and let them do slowly until they feel soft to the touch; then add the same weight of loaf-sugar as you had of fruit, a glass of port wine, and a little cin- namon. Simmer this slowly for some time longer;25 JAJfUAEY. strain the prunes from the syrup, reduce tlie latter, being ver}’- particular to skim it thoroughly. When cool enough, pour it over your fruit, which should be arranged in a compotier, or deep glass dish. It is almost needless to observe that compotes are only served cold. COMPOTE DE POMMES A LA TICINESE. Take small dressing apples (in the summer-time they should be young codlins), prick them with a coarse needle, and scald them until they are quite tender. Take them up, peel, core, and cut them into quarters; lay them in a dessert-dish, stick a blanched almond into each, strain the juice of a lemon upon them, and pour over them a good fruit jelly of any kind, which should be first melted for the purpose. When cold, this should be an agreeable solid jelly. In their respective seasons, raspberry, cherry, or currant juice may be freshly boiled down with a sufficiency of sugar, and used in place of the preserved jelly. When cherry juice is employed, the kernels of the stones are blanched and added to the dish. OKANGES GLAClSlS.* Carefully take away the rind and white pelicule from as many oranges as you require; then separate them into quarters ; that is to say, pull them asunder, that they may be kept in their natural divisions. Be2G eveetbodt’s desseet book. particular you do not bruise them. Pass a thread through the skin that covers them, so as not to wound the interior flesh. Boil some sugar to a candy height, dip in your oranges several times, allowing them to become cold between each immersion. When you think they have properly taken the sugar, you can take them OS' the string and put them by to dry. Slices of fresh pine-apple and melon—not over ripe— may be treated in a similar manner, but should sub- sequently be very slowly desiccated by long contact with a gentle heat, or they will not keep well. FRENCH MARMALADE OF ORANGE OR LEMON.* Take the entire rinds of twelve oranges or lemons, put it into plenty of fresh water and boil it gently until it is quite tender ; then take it up and throw it into a pan of cold water; let it remain for eight or ten hours. Drain it, mash it smoothly, pass it through a sieve, weigh it, and to each pound of pulp allow a pound of highly-refined loaf-sugar. Put it into a pre- serving-pan, and stir it well over a very moderate fire until it is a tolerably thick paste. Put it away in small pots for use. The juice and pulp are not used. ALMOND PASTE.* Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds or pistachio nuts, pound them to a paste in a mortar, moistening27 JANITAET. them with a tablespoonful of a strong infusion of gnm- arabic; add a pound of powdered and sifted loaf- sugar, make them up into thin biscuits, lay them upon greased paper, and place them for a short time in a slack oven to set. TOURONS DE DIFF^EENTES COULEURS.* Break two eggs into a basin, take away the yolks, and whisk the w^hites to a snow; gradually sift in powdered loaf-sugar until a stiff paste is formed; colour and perfume this with what extracts or con- serves you prefer, roll it into balls of about the size of a pigeon’s egg, put them upon paper, and let them set very slowly by placing them inside a cool oven. PETITS SOUFFLES 1 LTTALIENNE.* Beat well together twelve ounces of powdered loaf- sugar, the whites of three eggs, and the rasped rind of a sweet orange. "When this is a smooth paste, lay portions of it, as thinly as you can, in rounds upon greased paper. Place some very fine slips of candled citron-peel in the middle of each, wet the edges, cover the souffles with a similar shaped piece of the paste, press them together, put them into a slow oven, and when done, and suffered to grow cold, take them from the papers, glaze them with an icing, and place them in a warm spot to set.eveetbodt’s desseet book. 2S TO ICE VIN DE CHAMPAGNE.* Eemove tlie metal capsules which cover the corks of the bottles. Strew a little broken ice at the bottom of your pail; place your bottles upon it, surround them with ice to about three-quarters of their height, sprinkling a little common saltpetre amongst the ice as you put it in. At the end of five minutes carefully draw the corks from the wine and let it remain per- fectly still for rather more than an hour. Should you require it to be but slightly iced you may omit the salt- petre; but in either case it is unnecessary to move the bottles about during the process, as this would only destroy the clearness of the wine without ac- celerating its refrigeration.rEBETJAET. 29 FEBRUAKY. Sis or Eight Persons. table a basket of mixed fruit: Dessert for Foe tbe middle of the oranges, lemons, apples, &c. Gros biscuit b couper; almond cake. Fromage glacd. Tu'o compotes, viz. Compote de rhubarbe. Compote de marrons au rhum Tivo corbeilles de fruits crus. Pears: grapes. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Massepains a la Ducbesse. Biscuits dc Savoie. Macaroons a la Portugaise. Biscuits aux marrons. Tvo assiettes montdes gamies de bonbons. Walnuts, filberts, candied fruits, batons sucrds, citron chips, figs and almonds, gaufres, marma- lade, fruit jellies, ratafias, ca- rafes of iced water, salt-cellars, sugar-baskets, candelabra. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. For tbe centre-piece a plateau garni de fleurs, can- delabra, &c. Gros biscuit h couper: pound cake. Fromage de Brie. Four compotes, viz. Compote de pommes b, ITndi- enne.30 eyeetbodt’s desseet book. Compote de poires blanches. Compote de ndfles. Compote de raisin. Two corbeilles garnies de fruits frais. Apples; oranges. Four assiettes garnies de petit • four. Biscuits de Presburg. Pate d’amandes croquante. Citron macaroons. Pate de marrons. Dessert for Twelve In the middle of the ti containing pastillages or f groups of figures, or other Gros biscuit a couper: Prussian cake. Fromage glacd. Pistachio cream. Glace de creme au the. Four compotes, viz. Compote of Siberian crabs. Compote de citrons. Compote de melon (confit). Compote de marrons h ITta- lienne. Two geldes de fruits. Gel^e de framboises. Geld# de cerises. Four assiettes garnies de fruits confits. Pate de coings. Marmalade candie. Confiture de Agues. Confiture de peches. Bonbons, petits baisers, French primes, Brazil nuts, marrons, almonds and raisins, dragdes, nougat, petites guirlandes, In- dian preserves, fruit biscuits, candied orange chips, olives, two sucriers, salibres, &c. OR Eighteen Persons. ible a surtout or dormant, [•esh flowers of the season, objects of art. Four corbeilles garnies de fruits crus. Medlars: oranges. Pears: grapes. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Massepains de Turin. Macarons de Hollande. Massepains royaux. Tourons h I’Espagnole. Two assiettes de fruits en salade. Salade d’oranges. Salade de poires au vin.31 FEBEUAET. Four assiettes garnies de fruits candis. Dates; orange flowers. Prunes: cerises. Dried apples, raisine, preserved ginger and other confitures, bonbons, nuts of different kinds, pralines, pastilles, burnt almonds, les quatre mendiants, grilled chesnuts, four sucriers, two holding perfumed sugar, four carafes of iced water, flambeaux, &c. Tlie fabrication of ice is not nearly so formidable an undertaking as many imagine it to be; and as at present ice is so easily obtained, and at a price so very moderate, we should render ourselves quite remark- able for meanness did we not indulge our guests with such an inexpensive refinement. A piece of ice, which in itself may not be intrinsically worth a shilling, will, if employed with management, lend an air of luxury to an entertainment which injudiciously spent pounds would scarcely produce. I have already given the manner of icing “ vin de Champagne,” but the method to be pursued in pre- paring ices of fruits and creams is somewhat different. If you do not intend to avail yourself of one of the numerous newly invented freezing machines now so liberally ofiered to your patronage, you can operate quite as satisfactorily with the old-fashioned pail and ice-pot, which appliances appear still to answer every purpose and seem likely to outlive the vain preten- sions of many a more modern substitute. The pail or bucket in question should be of oak, and about half32 eveetbodt’s dessebt book. as bigli again as the ordinary house-pail; there shoul be a ta])-hole near the bottom to allow the escape of the dissolved ice. The ice-pot is preferable if made of pewter, and should be small enough to permit of being amply surrounded with ice when placed to stand in the pail. Having supplied yourself with this ap- paratus, get ready the cream or other composition you purpose iceing, and take all the materials into a cool, dry, airy, but not draughty room or cellar. Eoughly crush your ice, and add to it about a third of its weight of very dry salt or saltpetre; strew a tolerably thick layer of this mixture at the bottom of the pail, put your cream into the ice-pot, cover it down closely, place it in the pail, fill the latter with more pounded ice, and wrap a wetted woollen cloth round the outside. You should now turn the ice-pot round and round from right to left for ten minutes, then uncover it, and with a long-handled wooden spatula break down the crust of ice that adheres to the sides of the pot. Eesume the turning for some time longer; again stir the ice with the spatula, and continue in the same way until the preparation is per- fectly iced, when it should resemble the smoothness of butter. Observe, that as the ice melts away in the pail it should be renewed, and the liquid caused by its dis- solving should be let flow from the tap-hole below.FEBEUAET. 33 The more you work your ices the better they will be, but you should carefully take out the spatula each time after using it and replace the cover on the ice-pot. In making the “ glaces panachees,” or variegated ices, each colour requires to be first iced separately. Promages glaces are done in moulds, from which they are turned upon folded white napkins and sent imme- diately to table. Biscuits glaces requiring a particular kind of ma- chine for their execution, I have refrained from in- troducing. If you wish to thicken your cream before icing, make use of gum-arabic or any other vegetable gluten in preference to isinglass or animal substances of a similar nature, as it has been ascertained that com- positions in which the latter are contained will never ice properly. I would likewise counsel you to avoid using any of the freezing mixtures now so abundantly advertised; they are mostly combinations of noxious acids, which, during the course of the icing process, emit deleterious gas, that is both injurious to the health and destructive to the utensils with which it comes in contact. DEVEETBOBX’S DESSEET BOOK. 34 1. Almond cake.* 2. Pound cake.* 3. Biscuits de Savoie.* 4. Ratafias.* 6. Presburg biscuits.* 6. Massepains a la Duchesse.* 7. Pate d’amandes croquante.* 8. Pate de'iuarrons.* 9. Petits pains de Turin.* 10. Compote de tailladius d’oranges. 11. Compote de rlmbarbe. 12. Compote de marrons au rlium. 13. Compote de pommes a ITii- dienne. 14. Poires blanches. 15. Salade d’oranges. IG. Orange and lemon chips.* 17. Glaces de creme au thd.* 18. Pistachio cream.* ALMOND CAKE.* Take ten ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds; blanch them and pound them in a mortar, until they form a smooth paste, having added a dessert-spoonful of syrup, lemon juice, white of egg, or sweet wine to prevent the almonds from oiling. Then gradually add, first, twelve eggs previously beaten to a froth, then one pound of loaf-sugar powdered and sifted, and afterwards dredge in slowly twelve ounces of very good dry flour. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, put in b}'- degrees a pound of butter first beaten to a cream. A teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind may be also added if approved of. Place the cake in a good-sized mould, and bake it for an hour and a half.rEBEUAET. 35 rOUND CAKE * Beat separately the yolks and whites of ten large or twelve small fresh eggs, then add a pound of pow- dered and sifted loaf-sugar, one pound of dry flour and one pound of butter, either whisked to a froth or just melted over the Are and allowed to cool. A pound of currants, well cleaned and soaked in brandy to render them plump, may be likewise added if preferred, or one ounce of caraway seeds can be substituted; or, in place of either of these, two ounces each of candied lemon and orange-peel cut into thin slips may be used. Mix all well together and bake it in a hoop or mould for an hour and a half, or longer if the oven be not over heated. BISCUITS DE SAVOIE.* Take twelve very fresh eggs, break them into sepa- j rate basins, and beat them well. Add to the yolks I twenty ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, whisk the whites I to a froth, put them with the yolks, add the rasped I rind of a lemon, and sift in twelve ounces of flour I first dried in a slow oven. Eub some fresh butter i upon the insides of small round tins, half fill them i with cake, glaze the tops with powdered sugar mixed with a very little flour, and bake them in a moderately heated oven until they are nicely browned. D 236 eveetbodt’s dessert book. KATAFIAS.* Blaucli and beat to a paste eight ounces each of sweet and bitter almonds, using a little orange-flower or rose water to keep them from oiling. Put witli them a pound of loaf-sugar beaten fine and sifted, and the whites of four eggs well whisked. Mix lightly together and put it into a preserving-pan, and stir it over the fire until it is pretty hot. Then form it into small rolls, which are to be cut into slices; dust your hands with a little flower, and lay the cakes upon wafer or sugar papers ; slightly press them, sift pow- dered sugar upon them, and put them into a slow oven to harden. BISCUITS DE PRESBURG.* Make a light dough by mixing a pound of very dry flour with a tablespoonful of yeast and a teacup ful of luke-warm milk. When risen, rub in six ounces of butter, four eggs, and a little sugar. Bake this in the form of oblong cakes, similar to that of penny rolls, and when done, cut them into slices about an inch thick, and mask them with a rich almond icing. Eeplace them in the oven, which should be of a gentle heat, and let them remain to harden gradually.PEBEUAET. 37 MASSEPAINS 1 LA DUCHESSE.* Blancli twelve ounces of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar with a spoonful of Maraschino, pound them to a paste, add them to a strong syrup made with half a pound of loaf-sugar; place them by the side of a gentle fire, and stir them constantly until they will detach from the sides of the saucepan. Turn them upon a table thickly sprinkled with powdered sugar; work them well, and make them into small balls; flatten them until they are exceedingly thin, lay them upon a tin, and bake them for a short time in a mode- rate oven. PATE D’AMANDES CPvOQUANTE.* Blanch a pound of Jordan almonds, and place them in a very slack oven.to dry. Then moisten them with the white of an egg, and reduce them to a paste in a mortar. Put the paste into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until it becomes rather stiff; add gradually a pound and a half of powdered loaf-sugar. Mix it well until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved; turn it out upon a slab or table, let it grow cool enough to handle, and make it into small biscuits. Stick some slips of blanched almonds upon the tops, and bake them slowly upon paper or tins.eteetbodt’s desseet book. 38 PATE DE MAKRONS.* Blanch your chesnuts by first boiling them till tender and afterwards peeling them ; pound them to a paste in a mortar, and add to them half their weight of preserved fruit, jelly, or marmalade, and their full weight of clarified sugar. Place this mixture over the fire, stir it well, and when sufficiently thickened, put it. into shallow moulds and lay them in a slack oven to dry. Dust them plentifully with powdered sugar, and when quite hard and cold, pack them away be- tween paper for use. PETITS PAIXS DE TURIN.* Take six ounces of loaf-sugar powdered and sifted, twelve ounces of dried fiour, the grated rind of a lemon, two ounces of fresh butter, and two eggs. Beat all well together until it forms a smooth paste, make it up into small biscuits of the size and length of a thumb. Grlaze the tops with white of egg and sifted loaf-sugar, place them upon a tin, and bake them rather quickly. COMPOTE DE TAILLADINS D’ORANGES. ‘ Peel off the outer rind of two oranges as thinly as you possibly can, and put it to boil in half a pint of water for a quarter of an hour ; strain this liquor upon half a pound of loaf-sugar, and boll it to a thick syrup.39 FEBEUART. Pick away every particle of rind from four good-sized oranges, cut them into thin slices with a sharp knife, and take out the pips. Put the fruit into the boiling syrup, retire it from the fire, let it stand some time, then take out the oranges with a strainer; boil down the syrup until it is sufficiently thick, arrange the fruit in your compote dish, and pour the syrup upon it when cool enough to do so. ' . COMPOTE DE EHUBARBE. Take some very young rhubarb-stalks of a pretty pink colour, cut them into pieces of about two inches long. Prepare a syrup in the proportion of a teacupful of water and three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar to each pound of rhubarb. Boil the syrup a quarter of an hour, then add your fruit, and do it very slowly for another quarter of an hour. Take up the rhubarb, arrange it in your compotier; reduce the syrup to a proper consistency, let it cool, and pour it into the dish. Some thin slips of orange or lemon-peel, or a few almonds blanched and slit, are a great improvement if stewed with this dish. A glazed or enamelled sauce- pan should be employed, or the colour of the rhubarb will not be preserved. COMPOTE DE MARROXS AU RHUM. Blanch and dry a quarter of a hundred large Spanish chesnuts. Place them in a dessert-dish, strew over six40 eteetbodt’s desseet book. ounces of pounded and sifted sugar. Add half a pint of rum, and immediately before sending to table put a light to it, and serve it flaming. COMPOTE DE POMMES A LTXDIEXNE. Take some good-sized pippins, peel, core, and cut them into half-quarters, put them for some hours in a dry place to shrivel. Bruise, but do not powder, half an ounce of the best white ginger, and boil it in a pint of water until the latter tastes pretty hot, strain it into a stewpan upon a pound of loaf-sugar and the juice of two lemons, boil it down to a thick syrup, add your apples, and directly they become tender, place them in your compote dish, and pour round them the syrup when cool enough. POIKES BLAXCHES. Take suflBcient small ripe pears to form a disli; peel them, rub them over with sugar, and put tlmm into a stew'pan with half a pint of cider and a pound of loaf- sugar; let them simmer very slowly until they are perfectly tender, take them up with a strainer, lay them in your compotier, re'duce and skim the syrup, let it cool, and pour it over the pears. Later in the year, white grape juice is used instead of the cider, which gives this compote a still richer flavour.rEBKUAKT. 41 SALADE D’OEANGES. Slice some medium-sized oranges, but do not peel them; arrange them in a glass dessert-disb, sift a good deal of sugar over them, and sprinkle them with a tablespoonful of white brandy. In their respective seasons, apricots or nectarines stoned and halved may be served in the same manner, but in their case, vin de Champagne should take the place of the brandy. CANDIED OEANGE OE LEMON CHIPS.* Take some fresh oranges or lemons, and with a very sharp knife cut off the peels in a slanting direction, so as to include some of the under white pellicle. Let the slices be as thin as you can possibly cut them. Put them to soak for some days in fresh water, which should be changed often. Drain them and place them in a syrup made with their own weight of refined sugar. Stir them about over a moderate fire until the sugar adheres well to them. Then spread them out, cover them with plenty of dry powdered sugar, and put them away in an airy place to harden. GLACES DE CEfiME AU Tllf:.* Take two ounces of the best green tea, mix with it the yolks of eight fresh eggs and three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar finely powdered; put these ingre-42 eyeetbody’s desseet book. dients into a saucepan, stir tliem over the fire, and pour in hj degrees a quart of rich cream. AVhen it is upon tlie boil, witlidraw it from the fire, stir it for some minutes longer, strain it through a fine sieve, and, when cold, ice it. PISTACHIO CREAM.* Put into a mortar a pound of blanched pistachio nuts, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Beat to a smooth paste. Add to it a quart of thick cream, and the beaten and strained yolks of four eggs. Place it upon a slow fire, and stir it until it is sufficiently thick. Pile it high in a glass dessert-disli, or put it into small glasses. "When cold, decorate it with neatly-cut pieces of pistachio nuts ; or you may put it into your ice-pot and freeze it if preferred.43 MAHCH. :nliech. Dessert for Six or Eight Persons. Cextee of tlie table—a stand of flowers or other embellisbments. Gros biscuit b couper: royal rice cake. A -wliippecl cream. Two compotes, viz. Compote de pommes h, la Kor- mande. Compote d’oranges k ITtalienne. Two corbeilles garnies de fruits crus. Pears: apples. Two assiettes garnies de petit four. Queen cakes. Macarons aux fleurs d’oranger. Two assiettes garnies de candis. Batons d’angelique. Amandes pralindes. Gaufres, Brazil and Barcelona nuts, marrons glaces, dried fruits, moulded ices, fruit jel- lies, pastilles, dragees, pre- served prunello, raisind, burnt almonds, fromage glace, petits baisers, batons sucres, confi- tures a la Valencienne, cande- labra, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. The table to be decorated with a plateau, containing corbeilles of fresh flowers, or mixed fruit, candelabra, or other ornamental objects.44 evebtbodt’s Gros biscuits a couper: Genoese cake. Fromage glac<?. Two compotes, viz. Compote de rlmbarbe. Compote de tailladins d’oranges. Two corbeilles de fruits frais. Oranges: apples. Two gelees de fruits. Gelde d’epine-vinette. Gel(fe d’azeroles. • Four assiettes gamies de petit four. Biscuits a la cuiller. DESSEET BOOK. Massepains a la Fran9aise. Meringues aux amandes. Croquants a la Vesuve. Four assiettes gamies de fruits candis. Pranes: fraises. Coings: marrons. Marmalades, nuts of different kinds, almonds and raisins, preserved ginger, iced creams, preserved bybiscus, lumps of delight, plaisir, brandied cher- ries, figs, French plums, cara- mels, salt-cellars, sugar-bas- kets, iced water, flambeaux, &c. Dessert for Twelve or Eighteen Persons. lu the middle of tlie table a plateau garni de pas- tillages, fruits, flowers, figures, or other decorative objects of art. Gros biscuit a couper: Sultana cake. Glaces b, la creme de vanille. Nesselrode cream. Two fromages. Fromage glacd. Fromage a la creme. Four compotes, viz. Compote de pommes ii la Demi- doff. Compote de tailladins de citrons. Compote d’oranges a I’eau-de-vie. Compote de pGches (confites). Four corbeilles de fruits crus. Two oranges: two apples. Two gelees de fruits. Gelde de framboises. Gelee de pommes. Four assiettes gamies de petit four. Biscuits au chocolat. Pain de Prusse.45 MAKCn. Plaisir. Biscuits soiiffles. Four assiettes garnies cle fruits candis. Pate d’oranges. Biscuits de marrons. Gingembre au caramel. Petits souffle's. Xougat, bonbons assortis, petites guirlandes, glaces panachdes, dents de loup, nuts, candied citron chips, olives, dates, preserved corunda, pralines, grilled chesnuts, les quatre mendiants, carafes of iced water, sucriers, candelabra, &c. Probably some of my readers would like to be in- formed whether there are any precise rules to be fol- lowed in providing a dessert for a given number of guests. The Prench, our arbiters in most things of this kind, are of opinion that for each person there should be never less than one dish given; but, gene- rally speaking, it would be more commendable for the caterer to allow, as nearly as possible, one third more dishes than there are convives; for instance, a party of six should have eight dishes appointed them. We can by no means consider this an extravagant pro- vision, and the resources of housekeepers must be limited, indeed, if they fail to conform to so prac- ticable an arrangement; by resources, I do not mean particularly to refer to the dessert materials people may possess in their store-rooms ready to their hands, but to the capability they show of quickly contriving a delightful repast from a very restricted groundwork. Surely a dessert need never be scantily furnished while4G everybody’s dessert book. there exist methods of easily transforming the four culinary cardinal commodities—eggs, flour, butter, and sugar—into such a multitude of agreeable Composi- tions. With a variety of “ petit four,” dried fruits, and confectionary (which we should take pleasure in preparing at home), we may always feel secure of dis- playing a dessert wortliy of any occasion, and enjoy the satisfaction of being able sometimes to dispense with such uncertainties as the fresh fruits of the sea- son, which are really less necessary to the success of our repasts than is supposed. Certainly, it will be urged by some, that home-made pastry and confec- tionary is seldom producible; I own this is too often the case, but if, in this respect, families more fre- quently made perfection their aim they would assuredly soon end by attaining it. 1. Queen cakes.* 2. Koyal rice cake.* 3. Genoese cake.* 4. Biscuits a la cuiller.* 5. Biscuits au ckocolat.* G. Macarons aux fleurs d’oranger.* 7. Massepains a la Fran5aise.* 8. Meringues aux amandes.* 9. Croquants k la Vesuve.* 10. Pain de Prusse.* 11. Orange or lemon paste.* 12. Nougat.* 13. Compote de citrons. 14. Compote d’oranges b, I’lta- lienne. 15. Compote de pommes k la Normande.* 10. Coinpte de pommes k la De- inidofF. 17. Glacesk la creme devauille.* 18. Nesselrode cream.*47 MAECH. QUEEX CAKES.* "Work a pound of butter to a creaua, put to it a pound of beaten and sifted sugar, add tbe whites of eight eggs wbisked for twenty minutes; beat tbe yolks for nearly an hour. Mix all thoroughly together, add a pound of dried flour, half a pound of well-washed currants, and sulficient nutmeg and cinnamon. Put portions of this mixture into heart-shaped tins, sift sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. ROYAL RICE CAKE.* "W^liisk the yolks of flfteen eggs for half an hour, then beat in ten ounces of loaf-sugar flnely powdered and sifted, add a tablespoonful of brandy, the grated rind of two lemons, and half a pound of rice flour. Mix these things well together, and stir in the whites of seven eggs that have been beaten for an hour. Put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it for rather more than an hour in a tolerably quick oven. GENOESE CAia;.* Beat the yolks of fourteen eggs for a good quarter of an hour, then stir in gradually a pound of loaf- sugar finely powdered and sifted and a dessert-spoon- ful of noyeau. Continue beating it for another fifteen minutes, and by degrees dredge in half a pound of very dry flour. "Whisk the whites of the eggs to aeteetbodt’s eesseet book. 48 snow and put them with the other ingredients. Butter the inside of your cake-mould, sift powdered sugar into it, shake out the loose sugar, put in your cake, strew sugar on the top, and hake it for an hour and a quarter in a moderately quick oven. Do not turn it out of the mould until half an hour after it has been taken from the oven. Afterwards you may ice it with a coloured icing. BISCUITS 1 LA CHILLER.* Take eight eggs and their weight in finely-powdered white sugar, a teaspoonful of orange-flower water and the rind of half a lemon grated, separate the yolks of the eggs from the whites, add the former to the other ingredients and heat together for ten minutes. Whisk the whites until they form a firm froth, put them with the other things, and dredge in half a pound of the best dried flour. Take a spoon and lay the mixture upon oblong leaves of white writing paper; place them upon a baking tin, put them into a tolerably gentle oven, and do them until they are of a clear brown colour. BISCUITS AU CHOCOLAT.* Take two ounces of the best cake chocolate, rasp and sift it; mix with it twelve eggs, a pound of finely- powdered loaf-sugar, and half a pound of flour. Beat49 MARCH. it together for twenty minutes: put it into small moulds or paper cases, glaze the tops and bake for a quarter of an hour. MACARONS AUX FLEURS D’ORAXGER.* Take two ounces of candied orange blossoms, mix them with a pound and a half of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar, and the beaten whites of eight eggs ; whisk it until it is very firm, put small portions of it upon wafer papers and bake it for a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. In the proper season fresh flowers can be employed, but these would require the addition of half a pound more sugar. MASSEPAIXS A LA ERAXCAISE.* Take one pound of Jordan almonds, blanched, one pound of double-refined loaf-sugar and four ounces of bitter almonds. Put the almonds together in a mortar, sprinkle them with a little eau-de-fleurs d’oranger, and pound them to a smooth paste. Boil down your sugar with some water until it snaps, put in your almond- paste, withdraw it from the fire and stir all well together. "When it no longer adheres to the sides of the saucepan empty it on a paste-board powdered with sugar ; roll it out thin and stamp it with a biscuit shape of any form you like. Bake them very slowly, and when done enough glaze their tops and return them to the oven to set. E50 eyeetbodt’s desseet book. MERINGUES AUX A5LVNDES.* Beat the wliites of six eggs to a snow, add to them a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf-sugar and five ounces of pistachio nuts or filberts, blanched and beaten to a paste, with the addition of the strained juice of half a lemon. Mix this in a stewpan over the fire, and as soon as it is sufficiently thick lay spoonsful of it upon sheets of white paper. Place them in a very cool oven and when well set take them out, raise them from the paper, and in the under or flat side of each make an indentation, fill them with a very small portion of almond-paste, moistened slightly with lemon juice; fasten two together with wffiite of egg, glaze them, and, when cold, serve. CROQUANTS 1 LA V£SUVE.» Take one pound of the best loaf-sugar, powdered and sifted, twelve ounces of dried flour, half a pound of almonds, cut small, four ounces of candied citron chips, chopped fine, a saltspoonful each of cayenne and white pepper, six eggs, and a wine-glassful of cognac. Beat the ■whole to a paste, work it well for a quarter of an hour; roll it out pretty thin, stamp it into biscuits, and bake them on buttered tins in a tolerably quick oven.51 MAKCn. PAIN DE PRUSSE.* . Eeat two eggs, add to them a piucli of salt and half a teaspoonful of powdered caraways. Gradually dredge in six ounces of flour, and three of powdered loaf- sugar. Mix thoroughly together ; roll out the paste, form it into thin slabs, similar to gingerbread in shape, glaze the top and mark them into narrow divisions with the back of a knife. ORANGE OR LEMON PA'sTE OR BISCUITS.* Take the rinds of two or three Seville oranges or fresh lemons, boil them in a good deal of water until they are quite tender ; strain them, and add to them their juice and pulp freed from pips. Beat all together in a mortar, and when quite a smooth paste, put it into a preserving-pan with weight for weight of fine loaf-sugar; stir it over the fire until it is very thick; lay it thinly upon earthen tiles or dishes; place it in an oven to harden, and afterwards cut it into biscuits. Dust them over with sifted white sugar and keep them in a cool dry place. NOUGAT.* Take a pound of blanched almonds, cut them into thin slips, place them in a slack oven for a few mi- nutes to dry; meanwhile put three-quarters of a E 2eveetbodt’s desseet book. 52 pound of powdered loaf-sugar into a stewpan, and when properly dissolved add your almonds. Stir both well togetlier, but withdraw them from the fire. Have ready an ornamental mould, rubbed over on the inside with a very little oil or butter; with an oiled spoon apply the paste to the sides of the mould as thinly as possible. Let it grow cold and turn it out upon a dessert dish. If preferred you can spread it out thin, and when cold, cut it into lozenge-shaped biscuits. COMPOTE DE CITEOXS. Perfectly remove the rind and pellicle from two or three fresh lemons, cut them into rather thin slices and take out the pips. Put the fruit into a strong syrup made with twelve ounces of loaf-sugar, a tea- cupful of water, and a teacupful of either white cur- rant or apple jelly. Simmer it gently for some mi- nutes ; take up the lemon, arrange it in a dessert dish, and when sufficiently cooled, pour over it the syrup. COMPOTE D'OKAXGES 1 LTTALIEXNE. Carefully take away the rind and white skin from three good-sized sweet oranges, then divide them by pulling them asunder so as to leave them in their natural segments ; remove the pips, lay the fruit in a glass dish, and pour over them the juice of three similar oranges, or an equivalent of white wine, boiled with a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and strainedMARCH. 53 tlirougli muslin. Decorate tlie disli uitli slips of orange rind pared exceedingly thin, and an equal quantity of halved blanched almonds. COMPOTE DE POMMES A LA NOEMANDE.* Take seven small-sized ISTormandy pippins and set them to simmer in half water and half white wine, with a small pinch of saffron. When they are becom- ing transparent, put enough sugar to sweeten them, allow them to boil five minutes, then take them up, arrange them in a compotier. Simmer the syrup until it becomes a clear jelly, being particular to skim it, and then strain it over your fruit. Cider may he used instead of wine and water, and a few cloves are- sometimes added. COMPOTE DE POMMES A LA DEJIIDOFF. Peel some small dressing apples, rubbing them with sugar as you do them to prevent them becoming dis- coloured, cut them in half, core them and lay them in a stewpan with one-third each of their weight of apri- cot jam, water, and sugar. Do them very slowly until they are tender; take them up, arrange them in a jelly-mould, reduce the syrup until it is a thick jelly, strain it over them, and when well set turn them upon a dish and dust white sugar over them before serving. Pine-apple, quince, or barberry jelly may be employed54 eyeetbodt’s desseet book. instead of tbe preserved apricot; and if, instead of serving it in a mould you prefer it as a regular com- pote, slices of it may be arranged in a disb and a light syrup poured round it. PLACES 1 LA CRfiME DE VAXILLE.* Cut a stick of vanilla into short pieces, put it into a saucepan "with fourteen ounces of loaf-sugar in powder, and tbe yolks of eight eggs. Stir it with, a spoon by tbe side of a slack fire until tbe eggs begin to look opaque; then gradually pour in a quart of thick cream and continue stirring until it is nearly boiling, which may be known by the cream adhering to the spoon. Strain it through a sieve; let it grow cold and ice it. KESSELEODE CEEAM.* Take a quart of sweet cream, the yolks of six eggs, eight ounces of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar and a glass of Maraschino. Place this over the fire in a saucepan, and thicken it, then let it grow cold, put it into your ice-pot and freeze. Add six ounces of dried cherries, citron-chips, or candied orange flowers ; mix well together, and pour it gently into a mould thickly lined with sweetmeats or dried fruits. Ice this, re- move it from the. mould, and serve it upon a dish sur- rounded with a w'hipped cream.55 APKIL. APKIL. Dessekt for Six or Eight Persons. In tlie middle of tlie table a stand containing vases of flowers, baskets of fruit, candelabra, &c. Gros biscuit b, couper: sponge cake. Fromage a la creme. Two compotes, viz. Compote de coings (confits). Compote d’abricots verts. Two assiettes mont^es garnies de bonbons. Two assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits en caisse, Macarons soufflds. Two assiettes garnies de fruits confits. Groseilles confites en grappes. Noix vertes confites au sucre. Two assiettes garnies de candis. Pate de verjus. Damson cheese. Citron chips, dragees, ices, mar- rons, pralines, nuts of different kinds, gaufres, petits baisers, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. The centre of tbe table to be decorated with fresh flowers, ornamental pastillages or statuary, &c. Gros biscuit h couper; saffron cake. Glaces de chocolat h la creme. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Pfite li la Hollandaise.eveetbodt’s desseet booe. 5G Biscuits au riz. Almond macaroons. Croquignoles h I’lmperiale. Four assiettes garnies de con- fitures. Confiture de poires. Confiture d’ananas. Oonfiture de fraises. Confiture de melon. Two assiettes montces garnies de bonbons assortis. Four assiettes garnies de fruits candis. Cerises blanches. Dessert for Twelve In the middle of the tal dormant. Gros biscuit b, couper: plain seed cake. Grosse glacd panacbee. Glaces au citron. Glaces d la creme d’amandes. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Tourons. Massepains k I’Espagnole. Petits souffles a I’ltalienne. Biscuits k I’orange. Four compotes, viz. Compote de rhubarbe. Compote d’abricots verts. Candied ginger. Greengage paste. Tiges d’angelique. Two moulds of fruit jelly. Gelee de bar. Gele'e de coings. Fresh fruits of the season, such as oranges, apples, and pears; batons sucres, almonds and raisins, dates, figs, marmalade, ■ filberts, marrons grilles, carafes of iced water, sucriers, salieres, flamteaux, &c. OR Fighteex Persoxs. e an ornamental surtout or Compote de pruneaux. Compote de citrons. Four assiettes garnies de fruits candis. Groseilles glacdes au caramel. Amandes vertes glacdes. Concombres glaces. Candied greengages. Two corbeilles de fruits crus melds. Four assiettes garnies de fruits confits au sucre. Oranges confites.APRIL. 57 Citrons confits. | Figues confites. Preserved golden pippins. Four assiettes garnies de bonbons. Fruit jellies, petites guirlandes, preserved ginger, les quatre mendiants, deuts de loups, burnt almonds, pastilles de differentes eouleurs, fruits h I’eau de vie, plaisir, fruit bis- cuits, candelabra, &c. It requires but little art to set out a dessert-table advantageously; we can but make the most of what we have at our disposal, and if this be done, and the following general directions attended to, we may rest confident of a good effect being the result. Although it would almost appear invidious for one dish of dessert to be entitled to precedence more than another, yet as there are posts of honour at all tables, however shaped, so these posts must be filled, and the “ assiettes montees,” or raised glass stands, holding tiers of petit four, or bonbons, are usually deputed to occupy the positions of distinction. These, if you have four, should be placed at the top, bottom, and sides; and between them, or near the corners, there should be an equal number of baskets of fresh fruit. The compotes may stand in the alternate spaces, and the “ fromages glaces” and other moulded things, the sugar-basins, candelabra, &c., are to form an inner circle, backing the principal dishes. Tor a small party there may be a basket of fresh fruits in the middle of the table, four compotes at the corners, and four58 eveetbodt’s desseet book. assiettes of petit four at the ends and sides of the table. When you have no basket of fruit, or flowers, the cake, if a handsome one, may be placed in the middle; or if you have but one assiette montce you may make it a centre-piece in default of anything more showy ; hut he your dessert ever so small, always endeavour to have either an ornament or important middle dish, round which to range those things that are of inferior attractions; and if you would deserve to be thought well of, jealously avoid falling into the English error of crowding the principal dishes in a single file down the centre of the table, and inter- spersing the others among the candlesticks. A propos of candles, beware of ever expecting your guests to be happy under the influence of an odd number of lights. It may he considered ominous to upset the salt, or inauspicious to place two knives across, or unlucky to invite a party of thirteen; hut all these sinister occurrences combined would bring about hut a very moderate amount of mischief compared with the direful misfortune that would accrue to all who may be concerned in eating or drinking when only illu- mined with an unequal number of candies or flam- beaux !59 APRIL. 1. Sponge cake.* 2. Saffron cake.* 3. Biscuits en caisse.* 4. Almond macaroons.* 5. Biscuits au riz.* 6. Macarons souffles.* 7. Pate a la Hollandaise.* 8. Croquignoles a I’Imperiale.* 9. Gaufres.* 10. Tourons.* 12. Biscuits h. I’orange.* 13. Confiture de marrons.* 14. Scotch marmalade.* 15. Amandes pralindes.* IG. Confiture de citrons or oranges.* 17. Glaces de creme aux amandes.* 18. Glaces de chocolat a la creme.* 11. Massepains h I’Espagnole.* SPONGE CAKE.* Take one pound each of eggs, flour, and powdered loaf sugar; separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the former for a quarter of an hour, and add by degrees a little rasped lemon-rind and the pow- dered sugar. "Whisk the whites of the eggs to a high froth, join them with the yolks, and gradually dredge in the flour. Put it into a cake-mould, and bake it for rather more than au hour in a moderate oven. SAFFRON CAKE.* Make a strong infusion of saffron in half a pint of new milk, which is done by placing the saflron and milk in a cool oven for some time. Strain it, and with one half put a teacupful of yeast; in the other half melt six ounces of fresh butter; mix the latter with two pounds of dried flour, add the yeast, four eggsGO EyERTBODT’s DESSERT BOOK. well beateD, four ounces of powdered loaf-sugar, four ounces of candied orange-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger. Let it stand for a little wliile to rise, work it well together, put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it for not quite an hour. AVhen done and become cold it may be thickly iced. In many parts of England this is called an Easter cake, from being eaten at that period. BISCUITS EN CAISSE.* These biscuits, which are so generally esteemed in France, are made in the following manner: Break a dozen fresh eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, and with the latter stir in rather less than a quarter of a pound each of dry wheaten flour and potato flour, two spoonsful of the essence of lemon, and a little bruised candied orange flowers. Mix these well toge- ther ; beat the whites of the eggs to a snow, add the other ingredients to them, stir it gently, put it into paper cases of the size you prefer, sift powdered loaf- sugar over them, and place them in a very moderate oven until they have acquired a light brown colour. "When they are cold you can remove them from the paper cases. ALMOND MACAROONS.* Take one pound of fine sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds; blanch them and dry them tho-61 APRIL. rouglilj; pound them in a mortar until they form a smooth paste, but add the white of an egg to prevent them turning oily. "Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a high froth, put your almonds with this, and gra- dually stir in a pound and a half of refined loaf-sugar beaten and sifted. Mix these things thoroughly, and drop portions upon wafer paper, stick a slip or two of sliced almonds (sweet or bitter) on the tops, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. BISCUITS AU EIZ.* Put into a mortar four ounces of apricot or pine- apple marmalade, pound it well, and add two ounces of orange-flower water and the whites of sixteen eggs whisked to a snow. Beat together the yolks of six eggs, .ten ounces of powdered loaf-sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon; continue beating for fifteen or twenty minutes; add> the whites of the eggs and marmalade, stir in half a pound of the best ground rice. Mix all together, and make it into small bis- cuits upon paper. Bake them for about a quarter of an hour, and glaze them highly. MACAKONS SOUFFLES.* • Take half a pound of blanched sweet almonds, filberts, or pistachio nuts, cut them into yevj thin slips, rub them first in the white of an egg, and after-62 eteetbodt’s dessert boor. wards in three ounces of pounded and sifted loaf- sugar. Spread them upon a board, and put them into a dry place until the next day. Then beat the whites of three eggs until they are a firm froth ; mix with them half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, add your almonds, mingle well together, make up the paste quickly into small balls, put them upon paper, place them in a slow oven, and bake until they are of a nice colour. PATE 1 LA IIOLLANDAISE.* Beat together a wine-glassful of rum, three-quarters of a pound of lump-sugar beaten and sifted, a tea- spoonful of caraways, and the whites of six eggs whisked to a snow; place it in a saucepan over the fire, stir it until it is pretty stifi*. Turn it out, make it into balls the size of a large hazel-nut, put them on greased paper, and do them in a slow oven. CEOQUIGXOLES 1 LTMP£RIALE.* Blanch half a pound of sweet and two or three bitter almonds, moisten them with white of egg, and pound them to a paste in a mortar. Mix with them half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, two pounds of dried flour, the rasped rind of two lemons, a little salt, a quarter of a pound of butter, and sufficient beaten egg to mix it into a stiff paste. Boll portions of it into the form of round balls of the size of marbles,G3 APRIL. place them upon baking tins, slightly flatten them, glaze the tops with egg and sugar, and bake them in a pretty quick oven. GAUFRES* Gaufres are so essential to the dessert that it is well worth our while to procure the apparatus neces- sary for making them. Eeat four eggs, add half a pound of powdered sugar, half a pound of dried flour, one ounce of orange flowers candied and beaten to a paste, and enough cream and milk, in equal quantities, to make the mix- ture into a thin batter. Heat your gaufre-irons, rub them over with a little butter, put in two teaspoonsful of the paste, press the irons together, and place them in a pretty hot oven for a minute or two ; when one gaufre is done do another until all the batter is em- ployed. The flavour of the gaufres may be. varied by substituting spices, almonds, eau-de-vie, or Maraschino for the candied orange flowers. TOURONS.* Take two ounces of pistachio nuts, or filberts, and four buncos of Jordan almonds, blanche them, halve them, and place them for a quarter of an hour in a cool oven to shrivel slightly. Boil down a pound of lump-sugar and a little water, until you have a strong syrup ; withdraw it from the fire, put in your almonds;64 everybody’s dessert book. add tlie rasped rind of a lemon, and stir altogether for a quarter of an hour. Put in the whites of two eggs beaten to a snow, and when nearly cold spread it upon wafer paper, cover it likewise with wafer paper, and let it become cold. Cut it into long narrow slips of the size of fingers, and serve. MASSEPAINS 1 L’ESPAGXOLE.* Pound in a mortar eight ounces of blanched almonds, adding a very little strained orange juice, to prevent them from oiling ; add two ounces of candied orange-peel, and reduce to a paste. Sift in one pound of loaf-sugar finely powdered. Peat the whole well together.. Place it upon a board dusted with sugar; roll it out thin, and stamp it into biscuits of any form you please. Put them upon baking tins, and bake for ten minutes in a slow oven. BISCUITS A L’ORANGE.* Easp the rind of a good-sized Seville orange, add to it six eggs very highly beaten, twelve ounces of pow- dered sugar, four ounces of fiour, and a very little strained orange juice. Mix all thoroughly until it forms a smooth paste; lay it upon paper, or in small moulds, glaze and bake them as other biscuits.APRIL. 65 COKFITURE DE MAEEONS.* Take the outer riud from your chesnuts, and boil them in spring water for ten minutes ; blanch them, dry them, and throw upon them their weight of lump- sugar boiled with a little water until it snaps. Let them stay for half a day, then take them from the sugar, boil it again, throw in the chesnuts, let them remain a few moments; withdraw them from the fire, allow them to stand till next day, then repeat the pro- cess, and either put them away in pots with the syrup added to them, or dry them by frequently dipping them into a caramel, or candied sugar, and afterwards placing them in a slow oven. The chesnuts should be chosen as near one size as possible, and are superior in quality if not preserved in the above way until rather late in the season, when their fiavour has be- come more concentrated. SCOTCH MARMALADE. Take some thick-skinned Seville oranges; pare off the outer rind as thinly as possible, and shred it very small, then squeeze the juice from the oranges, and put them into plenty of water, and boil them until they are perfectly soft. Mash them smooth (after draining them from the water), add to them the juice strained from the pips, and to each pound of orange put a rG6 eveetbodt’s desseet book. pound and a quarter of fine loaf-sugar. Put it into a preserving-pan, and when it is nearly boiling add the shred rinds. Stir it carefully until it is well thickened, then pour it into pots or moulds to keep. Lemons done in the same way are excellent. AMANDES PRALIN^ES * Take equal quantities of blanched almonds and sugar finely powdered; add to the latter a quarter of its mea- sure of water and some colouring, either spinach juice, infusion of saflron, cochineal, or carmine, according to the colour you wish your pralines to assume; boil all together, and keep stirring it about until the fruit is well incrusted with sugar. Pour it out upon greased paper and separate those almonds that adhere together. Filberts or pistachio nuts are treated in a similar way. CONFITURE DE CITRONS OR ORANGES.* Cut out a piece from the stalk end of your fruit, and with a saltspoon scoop out the pulp. Throw the rinds into cold water, and let them remain for two days. Then tie each in a piece of muslin, and boil them slowly in plenty of water until they are quite soft. Boil down double the original weight of the fruit in loaf-sugar with some water and the juice ofAPETL. 67 the fruit straiued from the pulp. Drain the rinds, and put them into the syrup ; boil gently for lialf an hour. Should they not be clear boil them again tlie next day, and repeat the boiling if you find it necessary. Throw the syrup over them to keep. Quarters of these rinds may be served in a dish of fruit jelly, or arranged with alternate slices of jelly iu a glass compotier. Devices may be carved upon the rinds before boiling them, or they may be fashioned to represent small baskets, and when they are preserved, may be filled with some of their own syrup, or with a fruit jelly or ice of any kind. GLACES DE CEflME AUX AMANDES.* Blanch and beat to a paste half a pound of sweet almonds and two of bitter almonds, add a little orange- flower water, otherwise they may turn oily. Put them into a skillet with five ounces of powdered loaf-sugar and the yolks of eight large eggs ; mix well together, and, by degrees, pour in a quart of thick cream. Stir it gently over a slow fire until it is almost ready to boil, then strain it, let it grow cold, and ice it. GLACES DE CHOCOLAT 1 LA CRflME.* Scrape half a pound of the best Spanish chocolate; mix with it the yolks of eight fresh eggs and ten r 2ETEETBODX’S DESSEET BOOK. 68 ounces of powdered lump-sugar ; put these ingredients into a saucepan, and add gradually a quart of thick sweet cream. Stir it continually over a moderate fire until it is nearly upon the point of boiling. Strain it through a fine sieve; let it become quite cold, then put it into the ice-pot and freeze it.ilAY. 69 MAY. Dessert for Six or Eight Persons. Centee-piece, a corbeille of fresh flowers. Gros biscuit b couper: cream cake. Fromage glace h. la creme. Two compotes, viz. Compote de raisin (confit). Compote de peches (confites). Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits souffles. Pate croquante h, ITtalienne. Bitter almond macaroons. Biscuits b la canelle. Two assiettes montdes garnies de bonbons. Two assiettes montdes garnies de candis. Two assiettes de geldes de fruits. Gelde de mures. Gclde de pommes. Dried fruits, nuts of different kinds, fruit cheese, fresh fruits if obtainable, plaisir, olives, iced water, candelabra, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. In the middle of the table a vase of fresh flowers : an ornamental pastille, or simply candelabra. Gros biscuit h couper: nun’s cake. Creme Plombidre. Two compotes, viz. Compote printanidre. Compote d’amandes vertes. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Croquignoles h la Parisiennc. Macarons an riz. Petits souffles. Biscuits en caisse.eveeybody’s dessert book. 70 Four assiettes ganiies de fruits candis. Noix au caramel. Fleurs d’oranger confites. Mdrises candies. Figues au caramel. Two assiettes montees garnies de bonbons, dragdes, &c. Four assiettes garnies de fruits secs. Dates: prunes. Raisins: pears. Two corbeilles of fresh fruit, such as nuts, oranges, green al- monds, &c.: marmalades, In- dian preserves, confitures h la V alencienne, petites guirlandes, citron chips, angelica, pommes tapdes, petits baisers, batons sucrds, salidres, sugar-baskets, &c. Dessert for Twelve or Eighteen Persons. In the middle of tlie table groups of figures, flowers, baskets of fruit, or other objects of embellishment. Gros biscuit a couper: Vienna cake. Fromage h la Chantilly. Four compotes, viz. Compote d’abricots verts. Compote de groseilles vertes. Compote de prunes h I’eau-dc-vie. Compote de cerises a 1’eau-de-vie. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Massepains h I’Arabe. Meringues h ITtaliennc. Croquants a la Kusse. Biscuits de Presburgh. Grapes: cherries: melon. Four assiettes montdes garnies de biscuits de fruits melds. Biscuits de framboises. Biscuits de marrons. Biscuits de pistaches. Biscuits d’angdlique. Four assiettes garnies de mar- melade. Marmelade de verjus. Mannelade de coings. Marmelade de prunes. Marmelade de pommes. Two grosses glaces panachdes. Four corbeilles garnies de fruits frais. Oranges: nuts: pines. Two assiettes garnies de fruits en salade. Salade de citrons au rhum.MAT. 71 Salade d’oranges. Dried fruits, plain seed cake, preserved ginger, burnt al- monds, fruits b I’eau-de-vie, nougat, raising, pralines, pas- tilles, les quatre mendiants, flambeaux, carafes of iced •■water, &c. There is an ancient distich relating to this period of the year, which tells us that, “ Entre Paques et la Pentecoute Le dessert n’est que d’une croute.” Though this saying may with some truth apply to the fresh natural productions of the.season, it cannot certainly extend to the preserves, the patisserie, the spring cheeses, and the iced creams, many of which are now more easily producible than at any other season of the year. The fromages a la creme are at present justly considered to be in the height of their perfection, and the cremes fouettees delicious! The flowers, too, are daily becoming more abundant, and may be seen adorning every well-regulated table. The green almonds and the green apricots already invite us to inaugurate an instalment of confectionary into our store-rooms: green almonds pralinees are ex- cellent, and equally so is green apricot marmalade, or green apricots confits au sucre. Those happy housekeepers who have money at com- mand may even now supply themselves with straw- berries, cherries, melons, pines, grapes, &c.; while, if these luxuries should be beyond the reach of the less72 eteetbody’s desseet book. fortunately circumstanced, they have only to consult the bills of fare for this month to be convinced that there are plenty of agreeable alternatives open to them before they are reduced to the sad necessity of sitting down to a dessert composed of a crust, as was imagined to be unavoidable in the times of old. 1. Cream cake.* 2. Vienna cake.* 3. Plain seed cake.*_ 4. Biscuits souffles.* 5. Pate croquante a I’ltalienne.* 6. Macarons au riz.* 7. Croquignoles h, la Parisi- enne.* 8. Massepains k I’Arabe.* 9. Meringues k I’ltalienne.* 10. Bitter almond macaroons.* 11. Guirlandes printanikres.* 12. Biscuits k la candle.* 13. Confitures k laValencienne.* 14. Compote d’amandes vertes. 15. Compote de groseillesvertes. 16. Compote d’abricots verts. 17. Compote printanibre. 18. Fromage k la Cliantilly.* CREAM CAKE.* « Take the grated rind of a large lemon or sweet orange, put with it twelve ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, a tablespoonful of cognac, the yolks of eight eggs well beaten, and four ounces of very dry flour. Stir the whole together for a quarter of an hour, then add the whisked whites of ten eggs, and a pint and a half of thick cream beaten to a snow. Put it into a cake- mould and bake for an hour and a half.73 ilAT. « VIENNA CAKE * Take five or six slices of sponge-cake (made without the addition of spices), spread each slice with a dif- ferent kind of marmalade; place the slices one upon another, and cover the top and sides with a thick icing made with the whites of two eggs mixed with a pound of rolled sugar, and sufficient carmine to colour it of a beautiful pink. Let it set slowly in a warm place, but do not put it into an oven. PLAIN SEED CAKE.* Beat separately the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four; add six ounces of powdered loaf-sugar, a tablespoonful of brandy, a teaspoonful of caraway seeds, and six ounces of well-dried flour. Bake it in a buttered mould for half an hour, the oven being toler- ably brisk. BISCUITS SOUFFL^IS.* Take the whites of ten eggs, beat them to a snow, and add to them twelve ounces of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar, and three ounces of candied citron chips beaten to a paste in a mortar and moistened with white of egg ; or in place of the citron use an equal quantity of candied orange-flowers reduced to a paste. Make up your biscuits in paper cases, glaze the tops with sifted loaf-sugar, and bake in a slow oven for ten minutes.eveetbodt’s desseet book. 74 PATE CROQUANTE 1 L’lTALIENNE.* Beat in a mortar one pound of blanched sweet almonds, one ounce of bitter almonds, the grated rind of a fresb lemon, a teaspoonfiil of powdered cinnamon, and tbe white of an egg; make this into a paste. Boil down a pound and a half of loaf-sugar with half a pint of water, withdraw it from the fire, add your almonds, &c., replace it on the fire, and continue stirring until the paste adheres together and detaches itself from the sides of the saucepan. Be very careful that it does not burn. Turn it out into a dish, and when cooled enough make it into small cakes and bake gently./ MACARONS AU RIZ.* Blanch and beat to a paste half a pound of sweet almonds with the white of an egg ; add two ounces of the best rice flour, half a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, and the beaten whites of four eggs. INIix these ingre- dients together for ten minutes. Make the paste into small balls, place them at some distance apart upon sheets of white paper, and bake them for a quarter of an hour in a moderately slow oven. CROQUIGNOLES 1 LA PARISIENIsT:.* Take a pound of powdered sugar, half a pound of dried flour, a pinch of salt, an ounce of butter, and aMAT. • 75 teaspoonful of candied orange-flowers. Mix with sufficient white of egg to form a pretty stiff paste. Form it into small balls, and do them in a rather slow oven. MASSEPAINS k L’AKABE.* Mix half a pound of blanched sweet almonds with a little white of egg, pound them to a paste, and turn them upon a table ; add to them one pound of flnely- powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of muscatel raisins stoned and sliced thin, and two ounces of can- died citron chips cut small; add the white of one egg, wmrk it very well together, roll it out tolerably thin, cut it into the form of lozenges, or stars, place these upon a baking tin, and do them in a moderate oven for seven or ten minutes. Glaze them, and return them to the oven until they are well set. MERINGUES k L’lTALIENNE.* Make a strong syrup with half a pound of loaf-sugar and a teacupful of water; when it begins to whiten add the whisked whites of six eggs and half a glass of Maraschino ; pour these in rapidly as you are turning, that all may be well mixed. Stir it on the Are until it is of the proper thickness. Lay portions of the size of pigeon’s eggs upon white paper slightly greased. Dry them very slowly, that they may be of a pure7G eveexbodt’s desseet book. white, and when cold stick two together so as to re- semble eggs. BITTER ALMOND MACAROONS.* Beat in a mortar half a pound of bitter almonds and the whites of two eggs, add a pound and a half of sifted loaf-sugar, and, if required, a little more white of egg, to render it of the requisite moistness. Make it into very small balls, arrange them on paper, and place them in a gentle oven. "When they are well set glaze them, and return them to. the oven to finish baking. GUIRLANDES PRINTANIERES.* Beat the whites of three eggs until tliey are a snow, add to them a teaspoonful of eau-de-fleurs d’oranger and half a pound of loaf-sugar powdered and sifted; you may likewise add a teaspoonful of auy flavouring essence you fancy. Put some of this mixture into a tun-dish, and let it drop upon paper slightly greased ; let it fall in circles similar to wreaths in shape. Stick upon them halved almonds, or pistachio nuts, to re- semble leaves, among these attach a few coloured comfits to represent fiower-buds. Place your garlands in an oven just warm enough to fix them. When cold remove them carefully from the paper.77 MAY. BISCUITS A LA. CANELLE.* Beat the whites and yolks of twelve eggs until they form a solid froth, add a teacupful of orange-flower, rose, or laurel w^ater, half an ounce of very flnely beaten cinnamon, a pound and a half of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar, and sufficient potato flour to make it into a paste. Boll it out rather thin, stamp it into biscuits of a fanciful form, put them upon greased paper, place them in a moderate oven, and when done and become cold glaze them highly, and return them to the mouth of the oven for a short time to set. CONFITURES 1 LA VALENCIENNE.* Take any kind of fruit that has been previously preserved in brandy, dry it upon a cloth, and dust it over with flour. Prepare an icing with the white of one egg beaten with enough sifted loaf-sugar to be sufficiently stifl"; dip into this each cherry, apricot, or plum, according to which you employ, holding the fruit by the stem during the process. Lay them carefully in a warm place to set; when firm arrange them in a dish amongst sprigs of myrtle, cypress, or any other suitable foliage. Should the fruit be not well covered it may be retouched with the icing. Presh fruits may be treated in a similar manner, but of course they will not keep long.78 eveetbody’s desseet book. COMPOTE D’AMANDES VERTES. Take your almonds from the green shells, wipe them, and throw them into a little lemon juice and water; place them on the fire, and when they begin to simmer take them up. Make a strong syrup of sugar and water, adding some very thin slips of lemon-peel, skim it well, and when sufficiently cold pour it over your almonds that you have arranged in a glass compotier. « COMPOTE DE GROSEILLES VERTES. Take a pound of full-grown green currants, care- fully stem them, and throw them into a boiling-hot syrup, composed of a pound of loaf-sugar boiled down in a pint of water, highly tinctured with saffron. Slowly simmer the fruit for ten minutes; take it up with a strainer, reduce and skim the syrup, let it get cool, pour it over the fruit in a glass dish, and serve when cold. This dish may be decorated with sweet almonds blanched and halved. COMPOTE D’ABRICOTS VERTS. Take sufficient young apricots to make a dish, wipe each carefully, and put them into a saucepan with enough water to float them ; add loaf-sugar in the pro- portion of three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Let the whole simmer gently until79 MAT. the apricots are quite tender; take them up, reduce the syrup, first adding the strained juice of two sweet oranges, skim it well, and pour it over your fruit in a compote dish. COMPOTE PRINTANifiEE. Make a syrup with two teacupsful of spring water and three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf-sugar; stem and top a good pint of green gooseberries, put them into the syrup, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Take them up with a strainer, arrange them in a com- potier, and when the syrup has been reduced, and suf- fered to cool a little, pour it upon the fruit. FROMAGE 1 LA CHANTILLY.* Take a quart of good thick cream, beat it well, and add to it the whites of two eggs. "Whisk all well to- gether until it is quite a snow, dusting in by degrees half a pound of highly-refined sifted loaf-sugar and a little candied orange-fiowers beaten to a powder. Pile the cream high upon a glass dish, and serve imme- diately. Later in the season, instead of the candied orange- flowers, the strained juice of any fresh fruit may be used; or the flavour of the cheese may be otherwise varied by substituting essence of either rose, citron, or vanilla.eveetbodt’s dessert book. 80 JUNE. Dessert fob Six or Eight Persons. The table decorated witb a handsome basket of fresh flowers placed upon a plateau in the centre. Gros biscuit ii couper: imperial rice cake. Fromage de Roquefort. Two compotes, viz. Compote de groseilles vertes. Compote de groseilles b, ma- queraud. Two corbeilles garnies de fruits frais. Cherries and green almonds mixed. Two assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits de Rheims. Macarons b la Portugaise. Two assiettes garnies de mar- melade. Marmelade d’abricots. Marmelade d’dpine-vinette. Glaces b la fraise. Glaces de creme b la caneUe. Confiture of green codlins, dried fruit, fruit jellies, candied citron chips, bonbons, confi- tures b la Valencienne, plaisir, sucriers, iced water, cande- labra, &c. Dessert fob Eight or Twelve Persons. For the centre of the table fresh flowers interspersed with pastilles, corbeilles of fruit, &c.81 JUNE. Gros biscuit h. couper: Savoy cake. Grosse glace moul^e h la fram- boise. Two compotes, viz. Compote of green codlins. Compote of nectarines. Two assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits de Naples. Biscuits k la creme. Four assiettes garnies de fruits divers. Fruit en salade. Amandes vertes au naturel. Mdrises a Teau-de-vie. Fruit perld. Four assiettes garnies de confi- tures. Confiture de groscilles k ma- queraud. Confiture de fraises. Confiture de tiges d’angdlique. Confiture de fleurs d’oranger. Four assiettes montees garnies de bonbons assortis. Macaroons, gaufres, dragees, marrons glaces, amandes au caramel, friiit biscuits, petites guirlandes, figs and almonds, burnt almonds, preserved gin- ger, &c. Dessert for Twelve or Eighteen Persons. Middle of the table: a plateau decorated with a vase of fresli flowers flanked by four corbeilles of mixed fruits, such as melon, pine-apple, bunches of grapes, and bunches of cherries. Gros biscuit k couper: Madeira cake. Glaces de creme k la fraise. Glaces k la cerise. Fromage k la Chantilly. Two compotes, viz. Compote de fraises. Compote de cerises. Four assiettes garnies de fruits frais. Two of raspberries. Two of strawberries. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Macarons de Hollande. Geveetbodt’s desseet book. 82 Petits soiifflds h, I’Anglaise. Tourons d’Espagne. Biscuits h, la cuiller. Four assiettes garnies de fruits confits au sucre. Confiture de figues. Confiture de noix. Confiture de peches. Confiture de citrons. Four assiettes montees garnies de bonbons assortis, fruits au caramel, candis, &c. Petits baisers, moulded ices, mar- malades, fruit jellies, orange chips, poires tapces, confitures h, I’eau-de-vie, fromage glacd, fruit cheeses, candelabra, four sugar-baskets, two being filled with perfumed sugar, flam- beaux, &c. Upon perusing the menus for the different mouths you will see that, although not Continental or correct, I tave so far subscribed to English taste as to allow olives to appear at the dessert, I do so not entirely in deference to popular prejudice, but because I am myself a warm advocate for the use of olives; I love them, not on account of the gout they are wrongly supposed to inspire us with for indulging in the plea- sures of the bottle, but for their refreshing property, which, by the wise men of the desert, is known to act in a direction very contrary to that Avhich is generally ascribed to it. "We here erroneously imagine olives to produce thirst, and consequently promote the quicker circulation of the wine ; whereas, when used in moderation, they excite the salivary action to such a degree as in a measure to quench thirst instead of causing it. An Arab with a score of olives at hand will take one occasionally, and not require to drinkJUNE. 83 tLrougliout a ^vliole day. Probably a Briton would become a little lean under such a regimen, and I do not recommend bim to try it; but, as in this country olives are looked upon as genteel initiators of intoxi- cation, and people of any pretensions to propriety may scarce -with decency acknowledge a liking for them lest insobriety be inferred, I deem it advisable to remove the stigma that is attacked to tbeir reputa- tion, and hope my readers will feel fully satisfied that the fact of my thus declaring an attachment to olives is tantamount to my announcing myself to be a most irreproachably temperate person, right worthy to pro- pound moral precepts or culinary prescriptions for their mental edification or their bodily comforting. 1. Savoy cake.* 2. Imperial rice cake.* 3. Compote de frai.ses. 4. Compote de cerises. 5. Confiture de groseilles k ma- queraud.* C. Confiture de tiges d’an- g^lique.* 7. Confiture defleursd’oranger.* 8. Confiture of green codlins.* 9. Confiture de fraises.* 10. Fruit perle. 11. Fresh fruit in salad. 12. Gooseberry paste.* 13. Macarons de Hollande.* 14. Biscuits k la creme.* 15. Naples biscuits.* 16. Confitures k I’eau-de-vie.* 17. Glaces k la framboise. 18. To ice water.* G 284 everybody’s dessert book. SAVOY CAKE.* Crusli a pound of very Tvliite loaf-sugar, put it into a saucepan with two tablespoonsful of rose water. Beat separately the yolks of twelve and the whites of four eggs, mix them together, add to them a wine- glassful of eau-de-vie. Pour in the sugar that you have just melted over the fire, beat it continually until almost cold, then stir in twelve ounces of dried flour. Put it into a buttered tin into which you have strewn a little powdered sugar, and bake it for a good hour. IMPERIAL RICE CAKE.* Put two ounces of whole rice to swell over the fire with half a pint of new milk; directly it comes to a boil retire it to the hob, and let it stand to absorb the milk. This done, pour it into a dish, and stir it occa- sionally until it is cold. Beat to a paste half a pound of blanched sweet almonds mixed with a spoonful of laurel water. "VVhisk the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, add to them two ounces of butter worked to a cream, the rasped rind of a lemon, and eight ounces of sifted loaf-sugar. Put in the almond paste, and then the rice, being careful that it is nicely granulated. Mix all well together, put it quickly into a hoop or mould, buttered and dusted with sugar; bake it for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven.JUNE. 85 COMPOTE DE PRAISES. Put together in a saucepan a teacupful of water, half a pound of loaf-sugar in powder, and half the white of an egg; when this has boiled pretty thick throw in a good pint of fresh ripe strawberries, picked from their stalks, but not bruised. Let them come to a boil, take them up with a strainer. Well skim the syrup, and when cold enough pour it into the dish with your fruit. Strawberries may also be done a I’im- proviste by arranging them in a compotier after they are carefully picked, and pouring on them a good thick syrup of white sugar boiled down with a little water, and not poured upon the strawberries till it is cold. COMPOTE DE CERISES. Put a pound of cherries into a stewpan, first stem- ming them and stoning them, if approved of; add half a pint of water, a teacupful of fresh raspberry juice, or cherry juice, strained through muslin, the juice of a lemon, and ten ounces of loaf-sugar. Let it come slowly to a boil, and directly the cherries are done take them up, arrange them in a glass dessert- dish, and gently simmer down the syrup, being careful to skim it. Let it cool a little, and pour it over the fruit. Serve when quite cold.ETEETBODY’S iDESSEET BOOK. 80 CONFITUEE DE GROSEILLES A MAQUERAUD.* Take some large green gooseberries, cut them at the stalk end in four quarters, take out the pips, and string five or six gooseberries one upon another, fast- ening them together with thread, so as to resemble hops. Put them into a saucepan between layers of vine leaves, with enough water to cover them. Scald them, let them grow cold; scald them again, and if of a good green colour, drain them, and put them into a strong sugar syrup to steep until the following day. Give them a boil up for three days successively. Take them out of the syrup, reduce and skim it thoroughly, adding a little finely-shred lemon-peel and ginger. Put your gooseberries into jars, and pour the syrup over them. The gooseberries may be afterwards can- died, if required. CONFITURE DE TIGES D’ANG^LIQUE.* Choose some young stalks of angelica, cut them into short lengths, and throw them into cold water, and then into boiling water, with a little salt. Let them remain in this for an hour. Prepare a thick sugar syrup; when it boils put in the angelica, and retire it from the fire. The next day boil up the syrup by itself, and again put in the angelica. Repeat this twice, letting it remain at night in the cold syrup, andJUNE. 87 drauiing it eacli time. "When quite tender pack it iu glasses; reduce the syrup until it is very strong, and pour it upon the angelica. "When you intend to candy it you have only to take out tlie stalks and dip them once or twice in a caramel of sugar. CONFITURE DE FLEURS D’ORANGER.* Take some orange-blossoms and pick off the petals, throw them into cold water to freshen them. Prepare a strong syrup with the weight of flowers in fine loaf- sugar and a little water. Drain your petals, and throw them into the syrup; let them Jfsimmer slowly for ten minntes, then put them away in pots with the syrup in which they were done. Por candying them you must stir them over a slow fire until the sugar of the syrup again becomes a powder; dry them for use. CONFITURE OF GREEN CODLINS.”" Gather your codlins when they are not much larger than walnuts. Do not take away their stalks. Put some vine leaves at the bottom of a preserving pan, then place in your codlins, add more vine leaves, pour in enough water to cover them; put on the lid of the pan, and do them over a slow fire till they are soft. Take off their skins, and when quite cold put them again into the water with the vine leaves; add a small bit of alum to harden them, and set them by the sideeyeetbodt’s desseet book. 88 of the fire until they are well greened. Drain and dry them; make a thick syrup of loaf-sugar, which must be boiled, and poured over them for three days following. Put them away in small jars tied well down. CONFITURE DE FEAISES * Procure some of the finest scarlet strawberries you can get, lay them in a dish, but do not stem them, strew over them twice their weight of powdered loaf- sugar. Take an equal quantity of strawberries of an inferior kind, place them in a jar inside an oven, and bake them until they will pulp through a sieve. When cold add to them the whole strawberries, and put all into a preserving-pan, and place them upon the fire until the sugar is quite melted; withdraw-it from the fire; after a while place it upon the fire again, and once more suffer it to become hot, but do not let it boil; repeat this process until the fruit looks beauti- fully clear. When cold carefully arrange the whole fruit in glasses, and pour the syrup over it. Tie down with brandied paper. FRUIT PERL^. Beat together the whites of two eggs and a wine- glassful of water. Take some small cherries, straw- berries, raspberries, or red or white currants; with aJUNE, 89 pair of scissors cut them from tlieir stalks, and pass the fruit in the egg and water, then roll them lightly in some very finely-powdered loaf-sugar, and place them in a dry place to set. Currants may he done in bunches, if preferred; and later in the season bar- berries may be used; but fruit so served is not destined to be kept. FRESH FRUIT IN SALAD. Carefully pick any kind of ripe fruit from its stalks, place it in a dessert-dish, sprinkle it with a wine- glassful of white brandy, or vin de Champagne, and sift rolled white sugar over it. White or red currants, strawberries, white or red raspberries, barberries, cher- ries, or grapes are greatly improved when served in this way, especially if they do not happen to be thought sweet enough to be presented au naturel. GOOSEBERRY BISCUITS OR PASTE.* Take a quart of nearly mature gooseberries, add to them a pint of red-currant juice, place it over the fire in a preserving-pan, and as soon as the gooseberries are soft pass all through a sieve; put it again upon the fire, and reduce it until it is pretty thick; add an equal weight of loaf-sugar, stir it until the sugar is melted, then place the paste in thin trays, or moulds, and put them into a very slack oven to dry. Sift90 everybody’s dessert book. powdered sugar over them before you put them away. They may be made red or green, according to the colour of the fruit used. MACARONS DE HOLLAXDE.* Blanch and beat to a paste a pound of Jordan almonds, mixing with them the white of an egg and a wineglassful of the best Hollands; add one pound of loaf-sugar powdered and sifted, and the whisked whites of four eggs. Stir all well together, make the paste into balls as large as a walnut, place them on wafer paper, and bake for ten minutes. BISCUITS 1 LA CR£ME* Take the whites of eight eggs, beat them to a snow; mix with them ten ounces of powdered and sifted loaf- sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, and a quart of very thick cream whipped as thick as possible. Stir this gently^with one hand and with the other dredge in six ounces of dried flour. Either bake it as small bis- cuits or in the form of a cake: in the latter case, first thickly butter your mould, and then sift sugar into it; shake out the loose sugar, put in the cake, glaze the top, and bake for an hour and a half.JUNE. 91 NAPLES BISCUITS.* Beat twelve eggs to a very higli froth, add a pound of finely-powdered and sifted loaf-sugar, one pound of dried flour, and a wine-glassful of laurel, orange-flower, or rose water. Mix well together, and do them in long-shaped biscuit-moulds lined with greased paper, glaxe the tops, and do them in a gentle oven. CONFITURES 1 L’EAU-DE-VIE.* Any fruit that has been properly preserved in sugar may he drained from the syrup, and placed in wide-/ mouthed bottles, adding to each pound of fruit six ounces of powdered lump-sugar, or sugar-candy, and a good half pint of the best French pale brandy. GLACES A LA FRAMBOISE. Take weight for weight of fine loaf-sugar pounded and sifted, and the strained juice of fresh raspberries, either white or red, add enough lemon juice to make it of the requisite thickness, wmrk it well together, and ice it. TO ICE WATER.* Take your water-carafes and rather more than three parts fill them with filtered water. Eight pounds of ice and a good handful of salt, or saltpetre, will suffice92 eveetbodt’s desseet book. for four bottles. Pound the ice, and place half of it at the bottom of your ice-pail, shake it down even, put in your carafes of water, lay the remainder of the ice and salt between them; cover over with a thick folded cloth, and in about two hours the water will be suffi- ciently iced to serve. The ice should only embed the carafes to about two-thirds of their height, or they are liable to crack.JULY. 93 JULY. Dessert for Six or Eight Persons. Yases of flowers and baskets of fresb fruits of the season in the middle of the table. Two fromages glacds. Four compotes, viz. Compote de fraises. Compote d’ananas. Compote de verjus. Compote de pommes a I’Espag- nole. Four corbeilles de fruits crus. Corbeille de cerises. Corbeille de groseilles. Corbeille de fraises, Corbeille de framboises. Dessert for Eight Two assiettes garnies de petit four. Massepains aux fruits. Macarons au chocolat. Two assiettes garnies de fruits confits. Groseilles b maqueraud confites. Noix vertes confites. Glacds h, la creme blanche, bon- bons, dried fruits, petits baisers, candelabra, &c. 0 OR Twelve Persons. Centre of the table a surtout or dormant, decorated with corbeilles of fresh flowers, or the larger kinds of fruit, such as melon, pines, grapes, &c.91 eteutbodt’s dessert book. Gros biscuit h couper: -white cake. Fromage k la creme. Four compotes, viz. Compotes de cerises. Compote de poires. Compote de groseilles. Compote de framboises. Four corbeilles de fruits frais. Corbeille de pommes. Corbeille de poires. Corbeille de raisin. Corbeille de brugnons. Two assiettes garnies de petit four. Small sponge cakes. Meringues farcies. Two assiettes montdes garnies de bonbons. Four assiettes garnies de fruits confits. Confittxre de citrons. Confiture de fleurs d’oranger. Confiture de tiges d’angdlique. Confiture de marrons. Gelees de fruit, candied orange chips, dragdes, batons sucre's, figs, nougat, raisind, fruit en salade, olives, rktafias, sugar in baskets, carafes of iced water, flambeaux, &c. Dessert for Twelve or Eighteex Persons. The middle of the table to have a plateau contain- ing pastilles, flowers in vases or baskets, candelabra, groups of flgures, or any other agreeable accessory. Two grosses glaces aux fruits panachdes. Four corbeilles de fruits crus. Corbeille de raisin. Corbeille d’abricots. Corbeille de peches. Corbeille de cerises. Four compotes, viz. Compote de melon. Compote de prunes. Compote de pommes b, la Portu- gaise. Compote de groseilles a maque- raud. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits k la creme. Croquants du Nord.JULY. 95 Blacarons aux fleurs d’oranger. Biscuits en caisse. Four assiettes gamies de geldes de frmt. Gelde de bar. Gele'e de framboises. Gelee de groseilles, Gelde de cerises. Four assiettes diverses. Cerises groseillees. Fruit perle. Groseilles a maqueraud au caramel. Abricots en salade. Four assiettes montdes garnies de fruits candis. Oranges candies. Marrons glacds. Avellines candies. Tailladins de coings glaces. Preserved ginger, petites pas- tilles, pralines, almonds and raisins, confitures h, la Valen- cienne, dates, burnt almonds, petites guirlandes, gaufres, fruit biscuits, ornamental baskets of sugar, four carafes of iced •water, &c. This, for the provident housekeeper, is the most busy time of the year, so much so that it is difficult for us to confine ourselves to the limits assigned for the month’s operations. Green nuts, gooseberries, currants, raspberries, apricots, and nectarines, claim our close attention. Jellies, marmalades, fruit bis- cuits, and different kinds of confitures for the year to come must now engross our care, for fruits are fuga- cious things, and pass away as speedily as the flowers, whose period of perfection is not more transient. Al- though the season for the hardy kinds of fruit varies in some years nearly as much as three weeks, yet one is tolerably sure of finding currants, cherries, and raspberries in full maturity by the middle of July, and the early stone-fruits a fortnight later; but whatever96 EYEETBODT’s DES3EET BOOK. kinds of fruit we intend to preserve, it should not be dead ripe when used, or it will not keep so well nor be of a fine flavour; and fruit for all culinary purposes should be as fresh as possible, stale fruit requiring much more sugar than that which is newly gathered. Jams are rarely presented at dessert, but marma- lades and moulded fruit jellies are quite admissible. Marmalade is the pulp of fruit, which is first deprived of its pips, &c., while jelly is only the clear juice, and jam the entire fruit bruised and boiled down with sugar. To the Portuguese is attributed the honour of discovering marmalade, and quinces are said to be the fruit which first enjoyed the dignity of transformation into that excellent composition, hence the name mar- melade, from marmela, the Portuguese for quince. In the face, however, of this satisfactory derivation no printing-house authorities will allow me to spell or publish the word otherwise than marmalade, although I have repeatedly tried my best eflbrts to promote the original method of orthography.97 JULY. 1. White cake.* 2. Massepains aiix fruits. 3. Gek% cle har.*^ 4. Easpberry paste.* 5. Marraelade de cerises.* 6. Compotes h la mode. 7. Compote de groseilles. 8. Compote de framboises. 9. Compote of greengages. 10. Black, red, or white currant jelly.* 11. Cerises groseilldes. 12. Melange de fruit. 13. Marmelade de framboises.* 14. Noix conlites au sucre.* 15. Preserved nectarines.* 16. Currant paste or cheese.* 17. Gelde de cerises. 18. Glaces aux abricots. WHITE CAKE.* Take half a pound of very fresh butter, beat it till it creams ; add half a pound of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar, the separately-beaten yolks and wliites of eight eggs, four ounces of blanched sweet almonds halved, two ounces .of candied orange-peel, two glasses of sherry, a teaspoonful of mixed spice finely powdered, one pound of dried*flour, and a pound and a quarter of currants, washed, rubbed dry, and warmed before the fire. Mix well, and bake in a mould or hoop for two hours. MASSEPAINS AUX FRUITS.* Take equal quantities of blanched almonds and powdered loaf-sugar; reduce the former to a paste, add to it tlie sugar, place it in a preserving-pan, and make it a thin syrup with some strained juice of either .n98 eyeetbody’s desseet book. fresh raspberries, cherries, strawberries, or currants. Stir it over the fire until it is a stiff paste, pour it upon a hoard, roll it tolerably thin, form it into bis- cuits, place them upon a tin, and bake them for ten minutes in a slow oven. Glaze the tops before they are cold. GEL^E DE BAE.* Take two quarts of fine ripe currants, red or white, cut them gently from their stalks with a pair of scissors, and carefully extract the pips with a quill. Have ready a pound and a half of loaf-sugar boiled with water to a strong syrup, throw in your fruit, skim well, and boil for ten minutes. RASPBEERY PASTE.* Take a pint of fresh raspberries, a pint of raspberry juice, and a pint of currant juice. Put all together into a stewpan, and simmer it down to a thick syrup. Add to it a pound and a half of finely powdered loaf- sugar, and stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently thickened ; then put it into biscuit moulds or upon slates, place them in a slow oven, and when dry dust them over with sifted sugar. MARINIELADE DE CERISES.* Stem and stone some ripe cherries, reduce them by simmering them over a slack fire; then add sugar in the90 JULY. proportion of two-tbirds the original weight of fruit. Stir it over the fire until it is pretty stiff, and put it into pots or moulds for use. CO:\IPOTES A LA MODE. Halve some ripe greengages, peaches, or apricots, and take out their stones, arrange the fruit in a dessert-dish, pour a thick sugar syrup upon it, and immediately before serving heap up a good handful of powdered loaf-sugar in the middle. COMPOTE DE GEOSEILLES. Take a pound of eitiier red or white currants, let them be ripe and choice fruit; strip them from their stalks, and throw them into a strong syrup of sugar and water. Let them simmer for four or five minutes, dish them, and pour the syrup upon them when it is somewhat cool. In France the pips are dexterously removed before the fruit is dressed; this method greatly enhances the elegance of the compote, but very few English cooks would devote themselves to the performance of so tedious a process. If half raspberry juice and water be employed instead of water alone the preparation is rendered considerably more delicious. Black currants make an excellent compote when stewed with cider.100 eyeutbodt’s dessert boor. COMPOTE DE FEAMBOISES. Take a quart of either red or \vbite raspberries, carefully stem them Avithout bruising tlie fruit; place tliem ill a ste\vpan, and pour upon them a boiling syrup made 'with a pound of loaf-sugar and half a pint of water, put them over the fire, and let them just come to a boil; withdraw them, and when cool enough put them into your coinpotier, and pour the syrup over them. COMPOTE OF GREENGAGES. Toil in a pint of water a little grape juice or vine- gar, take your greengages and prick them with a coarse needle, throw them into the water, let them boil up, then take tliem out and throw them into cold water. Make a strong syrup ; when it boils put in your plums, simmer them for about five minutes, arrange them in a dessert-dish, reduce the syrup, let it cool, and pour it over the fruit. BLACK, BED, OR WHITE CURRANT JELLY.* Slightly bruise your fruit, and put it in a jar, place this in a cool oven, and pour off the juice as it collects; strain it through fine muslin, and put weight for weight of fruit and sugar, boil and skim it until it is of the proper thickness. Put it into glasses or moulds as101 JULY. preferred. Eed or ■ndiite raspberry jelly is made in the same way. CEEISES GROSEILLliES. Take a pint of ripe cherries, cut off the stems to within an inch of the fruit, prick them with a needle, and sift over them half a pound of powdered sugar. Let them stand a night. Dissolve a pound of loaf- sugar in a pint of currant juice ; when it boils put in the cherries, and simmer them gently for a few mi- nutes, take them out with a skimmer, boil down the syrup uutil it is very thick, pour it over them, and serve as required. MELAIsGE de fruit. Take a pint of the strained fresh juice of either currants or raspberries, put it into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pound of early apples pared and cored. Do this over a gentle fire uutil the mixture is tolerably thick, then add a pound of refined sugar, stirring well to prevent its sticking. Let it simmer a quarter of an hour. Pour it into a mould, and wlien cold turn it out, and decorate the dish with halved blanched almonds, or pieces of good firm fruit jelly. "When once this has been cut at dessert, and it is not advisable to introduce it again in a mutilated form, it can be served in the guise of a decoration to other102 eterybodt’s dessert book. dishes, or as a sweetmeat cut into large diamond- shaped pieces. Apricots with white currant juice, peaches or nectarines with grape juice, or quinces, damsons, &c., with cider, are equally good in this way. MARMELADE DE FRAMBOISES.* Stem and mash your fruit, which should be quite ripe; pass it through a sieve, add ten ounces of loaf- sugar to each pound of pulp, put it into a preserving- pan, and boil it down until it is of the proper con- sistency ; place it in pots or moulds, and cover it down close. Strawberries also make a good marmalade in a similar manner. NOIX COXFITES AU SUCRE.* . Take your young green walnuts when they are tender enough to prick with a pin; pare them, and put them into salt and water. Prepare some sugar by boiling it until it blows. Drain the nuts, throw them into the boiling syrup ; retire tliem from the fire, put them into a pan, and let them remain till next day. Boil up the syrup again, pour it over the nuts, and let them stay as before. Eepeat this again, and then place them in pots, or dry and glaze them to serve as a candy.JULY. 103 TRESERVED NECTARINES.* Split your nectarines, and stone them, cover them vritli powdered loaf-sugar, in the proportion of weight for weight. Let them stand thus for a day or two; drain them from the sugar, boil the latter, and skim it until it is clear, put in the fruit, and when it is soft enough take it from the fire, and let it remain in the syrup until the following day; then put it into pots, reboil the syrup and pour it over ; or, if you intend to candy the nectarines, boil the syrup to a caramel, and dip the fruit in it until it is well coated, dust dry sugar over it, and keep in a cool place. CURRANT PASTE OR CHEESE * Strip your fruit from the stalks, and place it over the fire for a quarter of an hour in a stewpan. Pass it through a sieve, boil it another quarter of an hour, add a pound and a half of finely powdered loaf-sugar to each pint of pulp, stir it over the fire for five minutes longer, and make it into any form preferred. Dry slowly in a very gentle oven, and dust it with sifted sugar. G^LEE HE CERISES.* Choose some perfectly ripe cherries, bruise them well, and place them to strain through muslin; add a pint of sugar to each pint of juice. Place it uponeyeexbody’s dessert book. 10-1 the fire, simmer it slowly, skim and stir it well, and when thick enough put it into your glasses or moulds, and cover it with brandied paper. GLACES AUX ABEICOTS. % Stone your apricots, pulp them through a sieve, put to them an equal weight of clarified sugar, and to each pound of this composition add half a dozen blanclied apricot kernels infused for two hours in the juice of a lemon and a little water. Work well together, put it into the ice-pot, and freeze it gradually.I AUGUST. 105 AUGUST. Dessert for Six or Eight Persons. Baskets of fresh fruits or flowers tastefully arranged to decorate the middle of the table. Gros biscuit a couper: nun’s cake. Creme fouettee. Two compotes, viz. Compote de cassis. Compote de abricots. Two assiettes montees gamies de bonbons. Two assiettes garnies de petit four. Massepains a la Fran9aise. Macarons d'amandes. Two assiettes garnies de mar- , melade. Greengage marmalade. Xectarine marmalade. Four assiettes de fruits crus. Apples: peaches. Strawberries: gooseberries. Two assiettes garnies de pate de fruit. Clear currant biscuits. Raspberry biscuits. Almonds and raisins, cerises, groseilldes, gaufres, fruit sa- lads, candelabra, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. Handsome vases of flowers or baskets of fruit, &c., to be placed in the middle of the table.108 everybody’s dessert book. Gros biscuit b, couper; Prussian cake. Glaces au cassis. Four assiettes gamies de petit four. Macarons aux fleurs d’oranger. Pate croquante ti I’ltalienne. Croquignoles a I’lmpdriale. Macarons au riz. Four compotes, viz. Compote de pecbes. Compote de prunes. Compote de brugnons. Compote de mures b, la mode. Four assiettes garnies de fruits frais. Greengages: cherries. Apricots: peaches. Four assiettes garnies de candis. Groseilles en grappes. Fleurs d’oranger. Ecorce de citrons. Prunes au caramel. Stone fruits b, I’Espagnole, i3re- served ginger, burnt almonds, melange de fruit, figs, raisine, fruit biscuits, marmalades, fruit jellies, flambeaux, pre- served nuts, sugar baskets, olives, &c. Dessert for Twelve or Eighteex Persoxs. The centre of the table decked with an epergne, or corbeille3 of flowers and fresh fruits among groups of fitrures. candelabra, or other articles of ornament. brosbiscuit a couper. Pound-cake. Grosse glace moulde et panachee. Two fromages b, la creme, places aux abricots. Glaces de creme b, la peche. Four compotes, viz. Compote de melon. Compotes d’ananas. Compote de cerises. Compotes de pcches b, la mode. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits d’amandes. Eatafias. Biscuits au chocolat. Croquantes b la Eusse. Four assiettes garnies de fruits crus. Currants: mulberries. Gooseberries: strawberries. Four corbeilles de fruits frais melds. Melon, pine-apple, grapes, plums, nectarines, pears, figs, peaches, &c.107 AUGUST. Four assiettes diverses. Mixed marmalade. Preserved nectarines. Salad of peaches. Preserved greengages. Four assiettes montdes garnies de bonbons, dragees, pralines, pastilles, &c. Dates, citron chips, nougat. petites guirlandes, filberts, petits baisers, batons sucres, confitures ii la Valencienne, plaisir, fruit cheese, four ca- rafes of iced water, four sugar baskets, two containing sugar perfumed a la vanille or h la rose. Owing to tbe fixed objection many people bave to eating raw fruit, compotes may be looked upon as absolutely indispensable to our desserts, and they are, besides, as essential to the efiect of an entertainment as they are agreeable to the palate; nothing could look better or more alluring than a dish of tender luscious fruit bathing in a rich jelly-like syrup ; the proper consistency of the latter, and the good colour of the former, constitute the material points of a suc- cessful compote, and those fruits whose attractive hue fades by cooking, such as some sorts of cherries, &c., should have the addition of a colouring, or fresh-fruit juice, to render them of more pleasant aspect. The literal meaning of the word compote is a fruit stew, so we need scarcely reiterate the injunction to dress your compotes very slowly; the syrup should be kept quite scalding hot the whole time the fruit is being converted into a compote, but should never be suffered to boil. In all cases the syrup ought to be carefully skimmed, and when once it is poured over the fruit108 eyeeybody’s eesseet book. the compote should he placed in as cool a place as possible, to prevent unnecessary evaporation of the flavour of the fruit which ensues when it grows cold gradually. Some fruits require to be immersed in very cold water after being first scalded preparatory to stewing. These are most particularly the softer kinds of stone fruit, such as apricots, peaches, and plums, which need to be hardened and fixed, or they would become a mere marmalade by simmering in the syrup. In the winter-time any preserved whole fruit is available for a compote, if a sufficient quantity of water be added to the syrup, and this with the fruit stewed slightly till the too great sweetness of the fruit is generalised by gentle infusion in the diluted syrup. 1. Xun’s cake.* 2. Prussian cake.* 3. Compote d’abricots. 4. Compote do peches. 5. Compote de melon. 6. Compote de prunes. 7. Greengage marmalade.* 8. Mixed marmalade.* 9. Apricot paste.* 10. Marmelade de peches.* 11. Currant cakes.* 12. Morello cherries in hrandy.* 13. Pommes b. la Portugaise. 14. Salade de peches. 15. Marmelade d’ahricots.* 16. Stone fruits b I’Espagnole.* 17. Greengage plums au sucre.* 18. Glaces au cassis.109 ax: OUST. NUN’S CAKE.* Take one pound of the best flour well dried, twelve ounces of loaf-sugar beaten and sifted, mix them to- gether, and place them before the fire while you beat a pound of butter to a cream ; then take the whisked yolks of nine fresh eggs, and the whites of four beaten separately, put them with the butter, add a spoonful of rose-water, well mix these ingredients, gradually stir in your flour and sugar, and one ounce of caraway- seeds. Put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it an hour. PRUSSIAN CAKE.* Beat separately the whites and yolks of seven eggs, add the grated rind of a lemon and its strained juice, a pound of beaten and sifted loaf-sugar, and half a pound of sweet almonds blanched and beaten to a paste witli the addition of two spoonfuls of rose- water. Mix these things very well together, and when the oven is quite ready, lightly stir in half a pound of dried flour, put it into a mould or hoop, and bake it for an hour in a moderately heated oven. This cake may be iced with a thick sugar icing if preferred. COMPOTE D’xVBRICOTS. Take ten fine ripe apricots, prick them with a pin, and throw them into boiling water, and then into coldeyeetbody’s dessebt book. 110 water; peel them, take out the stones, and extract the kernels. Boil down lialf a pound of the best loaf- sugar with enough water to make a syrup; put in your apricots, and do them very gently for five minutes. Take them up, arrange them in a compotier, add the blanched kernels, reduce the syrup, and pour it over. COMPOTE DE Pf:CHES. If you have not enough peaches to make a hand- some dish of whole fruit you may cut them in lialf and stone them, using tlie blanched kernels as an ad- dition. Should you, however, be provided with an ample number, they are better dressed whole, extracting the stone or not at discretion. Scald the peaches for a few minutes, and then plunge them into cold water, remove the skins, and lay the fruit in a preserving-pan with a breakfast-cup- ful of water, a little currant or other juice to add colouring, and twelve ounces of refined wdiite sugar- Do them very slowly, and when tender put them into your dish, boil down the syrup, let it cool, and pour it upon the fruit. COMPOTE DE MELON. Cut a good sized melon into rather thick slices, take away the rind and the seeds, divide each slice into scjuare pieces, then round them so as to resemble largeIll AUGUST. apricots. Prepare a strong syrup of sugar and water, throw in your melon, withdraw it from the fire, cover it down close, and let it remain some time to infuse; then let it come quickly to a boil, take it up, arrange it in your glass dessert-dish, skim and reduce the syrup, and when a little cooled pour it over the fruit. COMPOTE DE PRUNES. Take of any kind of ripe plums sufficient to make a good sized dish. If you purpose to have them stoned, remove the stone as carefully as you can from the stem end of the fruit. Should the plums be of a large kind they should be first scalded, and afterwards im- mersed in cold water; small fruit may at once be placed in an earthen pipkin with a syrup made with their weight of loaf-sugar, a wine-glassful of white brandy and enough water to float them in. Do them as slowly as possible, and as soon as they are tender place them in your compote dish, and pour over them the syrup when cooled. GREENGAGE MARMALADE.* Put your stoned fruit into a jar, and bake it until it will pulp easily. Pass it through a sieve, and to every pint of pulp add twelve ounces of fine loaf-sugar; boil it down until it is of the required thickness. Put it into small pots to keep.112 eteetbodt’s dessert book. MIXED MARMALADE.* Take a pint each of tlie pulp of red or white cur- rants, raspberries, cherries, and strawberries; add four pounds of highly refined loaf-sugar, and boil it gently for twenty minutes. Put it into glass moulds for use. Plums, pears, and apples in equal quantities first baked and afterwards pulped and boiled dowm together with sugar make an excellent marmalade ; the kernel of the plums may be blanched and added. APRICOT PASTE OR BISCUITS.* Stone some very ripe apricots, and put them into a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water; when they are tender, mash them well, pass them through a sieve ; weigh the pulp, and allow the same weight of the best loaf-sugar. Place it upon the fire, and stir it until it is very stiff, then place it in shallow tin moulds, or shape it into biscuits ; dust powdered sugar over, and dry slowly. MARMELADE DE PECHES.* Stone some ripe peaches, mash them, and pass them through a sieve. To every pound and a half of pulp add one pound of loaf-sugar ; put it into a preserving- pan, and simmer it till it is thick enough. Place it in pots or moulds, and cover with brahdied paper and wetted skin.AUGUST. 113 CURRANT CAKES, CLEAR* Sfcraia some fresh currant juice through a gauze sieve, put eighteen ounces of the finest loaf-sugar in powder to every pint of juice. Put it into a preserv- ing-pan over the fire and stir it until it nearly boils ; skim it carefully ; withdraw it from the fire, and put it into small shallow trays, which should be first rubbed over with greased muslin. Keep them in a dxy warm place till they will turn out of the moulds, then place them in a very slack oven to harden. Put them be- tween paper to pack them for use. MORELLO CHERRIES IN BRANDY.* Cut off half the stalks of your cherries, prick them with a needle, and put them into a bottle. To each pound of fruit put twelve ounces of the best sugar- candy, and fill up with pale Prench brandy. Black currants are also done in this manner. POMMES A LA PORTUGAISE. Pare seven or nine small apples, halve them, scoop out the cores, and fill the hollows thus made with some quince marmalade, put the halved apples to- gether again, lay them in a baking-dish, strew them well over with pounded loaf-sugar, and pour into the dish half a pint of claret. Place them in an exceedingly slow oven, and let them stay until they are thoroughly II Hi eyertbody’s dessert book. tender. Arrange them in a dessert-dish, and when cold strew more sugar plentifully upon them. Apricot or peach marmalade may he employed instead of the quince. Pears thus treated are excellent. SALADE DE PfiCHES. Take the skin from three or four ripe peaches, cut them in slices, removing the stones, arrange them in a glass dish, decorate with the blanched and halved kernels, strew some powdered loaf-sugar thickly over, and moisten with either white brandy or vin de Cham- pagne. The remainder of a pine-apple or melon may be thus sent to table. MAEMELiYDE D'ABEICOTS.* Stone and cut up your apricots, blanch the kernels, and put them with your fruit. To each pound of apricots add twelve ounces of fine loaf-sugar put all together in a preserving-pan, stir it well over a mode- rate fire, and when it begins to detach itself pour it into small pots or glasses, and cover it with brandied paper and skin. STONE FRUITS A L’ESPAGNOLE.* Take either plums, apricots, small peaches, or damsons, prick them very well with a needle, and completely cover them with the best brandy. Let115 AUGUST. them steep in this for ten days, then drain them, and pour upon them i*efined sugar boiled to almost a candu height, and tie it well down. GKEEXGAGE PLUMS AU SUCRE.* Prick your fruit Avitli a fork and throw it into boiling hot water, take it out and put it into cold water, drain it, and put it into a preserving-pan with sugar that has been boiled until it snaps, turn all into a pan, and after twenty-four hours again boil the sugar and pour it upon your plums, repeat this once more, and then give your fruit a boil up in the syrup ; as soon as they are sufficiently cold, put them into pots with the syrup poured over them. Peaches and apricots are preserved in the same manner. . GRACES AU CASSIS. Stem eigliteen ounces of ripe black currants. Put one pound of double refined sugar into a baslu, and bruise your fruit in a sieve, letting the juice run upon the sugar; add the strained juice of four lemons, and mix all well together. Put it into your ice-pot and ice it.eteeybodt’s desseet book. IIG SEPTEMBEK. Dessert for Six or Eight Persons. Cektee-piece a basket of fresb flowers flanked by four assiettes mont^es garnies de bonbons and pas- tilles. Gros biscuit b, couper; Scotch cake. Glaces au melon. Four compotes, viz. Compote de raisin. Compote de melon. Compote de mures. Compote de peches. Two corbeilles garnies de fruits frais. Corbeille de prunes. Corbeille de cerises. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits de Naples. Massepains b I’Arabe. Tourons de diffdrentes couleurs. Meringues aux amandes. Two assiettes garnies de Mar- melade. Marmelade de verjus. Marmelade d’ananas. Damson cheese, raising, batons sucrds, almonds and raisins, nuts, iced water, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. Plateau in the middle of tbe table decked with baskets of flowers, ornamental pastillages, piece? of porcelain, groups of figures, &c.SEPTEMBER. 117 Gros biscuit li couper: Bordeaux cake. Fromage h, la Chantilly. Four corbeilles de fruits frais. Corbeille de pommes. Corbeille de poires. Corbeille de noix melees. Corbeille de raisin. Four compotes, viz. Compote of damsons. Compote of Morello cherries. Compote of pippins. Compote de poires h la Cardi- nale. Four assiettes diverses. Gelee de mures. Fate de verjus. Dessekt for Twelve In tlie centre of the tab' corated with candelabra, flowers: figures or pieces the corners four baskets of Basket of peaches, plums, &c. Basket of black and white grapes. Basket of pine-apple, filberts, &c. Basket of melon, choice pears, &c. Gros biscuit h couper : Portugal cake. Nesselrode cream. Two fromages glace's. Fruit b, I’eau-de-vie. Salade de melon. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits souffle's. Croquants a la Vdsuve. Massepains b, la Duchesse. Croquignoles b, la Parisienne. Four assiettes montdes garnies de bonbons, dragees, pralines, caramels, &c. Les quatre mendiants, ratafias, preserved ginger, burnt al- monds, fruits candis, petits baisers, pastilles, fruit perle, four sugar-baskets, candela- bra, &c. OR Eighteen Persons. e a surtout or dormant de- epergnes, or corbeilles of of ornamental plate. At fresh fruits. Four compotes, viz. Compote de poires blanches. Compote de coings. Compote de prunes. Compote de lazaroles. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits de Rheims. Pain de Prusse. Pate d’amaudes croquante.everteodt’s dessert rook. 118 Macarons soiifllcs. Four assiettes diverses. Confiture de Agues. Gelee de pommes. Mures au naturel. Gelde de groseilles. Four assiettes garnies de noix fraiches. Noix de Brasil. Noisettes anglaises. Aveliines d’llollande. Amandes eii coquille. Four assiettes montees garnies de candis, fruits secs, pralines, petites guirlandes, &c. Dates, figs, citron chips, biscuits de fruit, marmalades, fruits h, la Valencienne, Indian pre- serves, flambeaux, saliferes, sucriers, &c. Although not strictly proper, I have been induced to sacrifice my scruples by sanctioning the introduc- tion of the English cake, as tvell as allotving olives at our desserts, but my liberal tendencies will upon no account extend to the toleration of blanc-mangers made with all manner of materials, jellies of doubtful origin, suspiciously-compounded creams, and questionable cus- tards ; any of these, even if of honourable extrac- tion, cannot be considered as quite eligible for the dessert-table; but when they owe their derivation to rice, oswDgo, isinglass, calves’-feet, or other gelatinous substances, they are only fit for presentation at a luncheon or a supper. I^o jellies but those of fruit should be allowed at dessert: no real or fictitious blanc-mangers; no custards, be they ever so legiti- mately prepared; no cremes d’entremets, unless they119 SEPTEilBEE. be iced, Avitli the exception of a Chantilly cream or a creme fouettee. The latter is made in the snbjoined manner: Dissolve one ounce of powdered gum-arabic in a little new milk, put it with a quart of sweetened cream, and whisk it until it has a fine head of froth; remove this as it forms, and put it into a sieve; continue beating the remainder till all the cream is converted into froth. Arrange it in your dish, giving it the form of a pyramid, and decorate it if approved of by placing upon it pieces of candied fruits, sweetmeats, &c. The flavour of this cream can be varied by previously in- fusing in it either two ounces of bruised coffee, or one ounce of scraped chocolate, a little vanilla, orange- flower water, or a glassful of rum, eau-de-vie, &c. The expressed juice of fresh fruit, or a little syrup of any kind, may be likewise employed at pleasure. 1. Bordeaux cake.* 2. Scotch seed cake.* 3. Compote of Jlorello cherries. 4. Compote d’ananas. 5. Compote of damsons. 6. Compote de raisin. 7. Apple jelly.* 8. Concomhresconfitsausucre.* 9. Kaisind.* 10. Mulberr}’- jelly.* 11. Pate de verjus.* 12. Preserved golden pippins.* 13. Damson cheese.* 14. Grapes in brandy.* 15. Marmelade d’ananas.* 16. Confiture de figues.* 17. Fruit preser\'ed in brandy.* 18. Glaces an melon.EVEETBODI’S DESSEET BOOK. 120 BORDEAUX CAKE.* Beat separately the yolks and whites of twelve eggs, mix them together, add to them a pound of loaf-sugar in powder, a pound of butter worked to a froth, and half a pound each of dried wheaten flour and potato fecule. Bake for an hour in a circular tin. The next day cut it into slices horizontally, and spread each slice with apricot and pine-apple marmalade alter- nately ; lay the slices upon each other, arrange some dried fruits upon the last slice, sift sugar over it, and place it in an oven for ten minutes. When cold, serve. SCOTCH SEED CAKE.* Beat to a high froth the yolks of six and the whites of four eggs; add loaf-sugar in powder four ounces, and butter worked to a cream four ounces, a teaspoon- ful of mixed spice, and another of caraway-seeds, four ounces of sweet almonds beaten to a paste, with the addition of a little laurel water to prevent them turn- ing oily; half a pound of candied orange-peel not cut too small, twenty ounces of flour, and enough brandy to make it of the proper consistency. Mix well, and bake for one hour in rather a brisk oven. COMPOTE OF MOEELLO CHERRIES. Take a pound of Morello cherries, cut off the stalks to within half an inch of the fruit; lay the cherries inSEPTEMBER. 121 enough water to cover them, add six ounces of lump- sugar, and let them simmer for not more than five minutes. Take them up with a strainer, put them into your dessert-dish, reduce the syrup, pour it upon the fruit, and add two dessert-spoonfuls of Trench brandy. Set it in a cold cellar to cool quickly. COMPOTE D’ANANAS. Peel a very ripe pine-apple, cut it into thin slices, lay them to soak in a thick sugar syrup first boiled and allowed to grow cold; cover them closely down, and when they have infused some hours, arrange them in your compotier, and pour the syrup round them. COMPOTE OF DAMSONS. Boil down a pint of cider and eight ounces of loaf- sugar until a syrup is formed, then add a pint of large ripe damsons. Simmer them very gently for ten mi- nutes, then put them into a dish, further reduce the syrup, and throw it over the fruit. Some cooks prefer having the damsons stoned, and the blanched kernels added to the compote. COMPOTE DE RAISIN. Take a pound of grapes, white or black, with a sharp knife open them at the side, and take out the pips. Place the grapes in an earthenware stewpan, with122 . eteeybodt’s dessert book. enough vrater to cover them. Put a few vine-leaves on the top, and let them come to a boil very slowly; then take them up, add half a pound of loaf-sugar to the liquor, boil it down to a syrup, skim it, replace the grapes, add a glass of eau-de-vie. Let it come to a boil, take out the grapes, and put them and the syrup into a glass dessert-dish. APPLE JELLY.* Peel and cut up your apples, and place them in a good deal of water with the juice of two lemons. Boil down until the apples are quite boiled to pieces and the water is reduced to a third of its former quantity. Pass it through a very fine gauze sieve, and to every pint of the juice add a pound of loaf-sugar. Boil it until it is a stiff jelly. CONCOMBEES CONFITS AU SUCEE.* Take two white cucumbers of a medium size, cut them into slices but do not peel them, put them into a sieve and sprinkle them with sugar ; let them drain for a night; repeat this twice. Boil down an ounce of bruised ginger in a pint of water until the latter is reduced to half; strain the liquor through muslin, and put to it a pound of refined sugar. Boil it to a syrup, let it cool a little, then pour it upon your cucumbers,123 SEPTEMLEE. which you have placed with the strained juice of two lemons in a basin. Next day boil and skim the syrup again, and pour it upon the cucumbers as before ; do this three times, the last time boiling the syrup till it snaps. Put the preserve into pots and use it as it is, or dry and candy it. If small cucumbers be employed, they should be pricked with a needle and not cut up. EAisiNii:.* Take some fine ripe grapes, pick them from their stalks and place them in an oven until they will pulp easily; press the juice through a sieve, put it into a saucepan without any sugar, simmer it down till it is reduced to one half, then add to it either pears, apples, or quinces, pared, cored, and quartered, boil for five minutes, remove the fruit, further reduce the syrup till only a fourth of the original quantity remains. Pour it over your fruit in jars, tie them down, and use the preserve as wanted. MULBERRY JELLY.* Mash your fruit, press it through a sieve, put it into a preserving-pan, and reduce it; to each pound of the juice add twelve ounces of loaf-sugar ; boil it until it gives way from the sides of the pan, and put it into small moulds. This is a favourite jelly in Italy.eveutbodt’s dessert book. 124 PATE DE VERJUS.* Take some quite ripe grapes, pick them from their stalks, and place theui iu a stewpan over the fire viitli half their weight of chopped apples. Stir them about until they are soft, then press all through a sieve. Put it into a preserving-pan, reduce it, and add the same weight of sugar highly refined. Stir it over the fire until it is thick; lay it in shallow moulds. Place it in a slack oven, and when dry dust sugar over it. PRESERVED GOLDEN PIPPINS.* Pare, core, quarter, and boil to a pulp with water a quart of golden pippins, pass them through a jelly- bag. Boil the rind of a Seville orange in plenty of water until it is quite soft, slice it, and add it to your apple pulp. Peel and core twelve choice pippins. Boil down two pounds of loaf-sugar with a little water, skim it, and put in your pippins ; boil pretty fast until the sugar is almost a candy, then add the jelly and orange-peel; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, simmer all till the syrup looks clear, and put it into a mould or into pots to keep. DAMSON CHEESE.* Stone your fruit, blanch the kernels, and put them and the damsons into a baking-jar, bake it in a mode- rate oven until it is considerably reduced, then put itSEPTEMBER. 125 into a preserving-pan over the fire and keep stirring until it is well thickened ; add a pound of loaf-sugar to each quart of pulp, boil it to a candy, then turn it into shallow moulds, and dry gradually. This will keep well. Black currants done in the same way are ex- cellent. GRAPES IN BRANDY.* Put some small bunches of very sound grapes into a wide-mouthed bottle, add to them half their weight of fine loaf-sugar in powder, and fill them up with the best white brandy. BIARMELADE D’ANANAS.* Take the flesh of a good-sized pine-apple, cut it up small, and put with it an equal weight of powdered loaf-sugar. Let it infuse until the following da}% then put it in a preserving-pan and stir it over a clear fire until it is suflGciently thickened. Put it into a mould to keep. CONFITURE DE FIGUES.* Choose some mature, but not over-ripe figs, place them with a little alum in some spring water. Put them over the fire, and when the water is scalding hot take them up and lay them on a cloth to dry; then put them into a basin, and pour upon them a very thick syrup of loaf-sugar boiled with water. Let theeverybody’s dessert book. 12G figs infuse till the next day, then strain olF the syrup, boil it, and again pour it upon the figs; do this thrice. Put your fruit into small pots, or take them singly, dust them with sifted sugar, and dTy them slowly. FRUIT PRESERVED UsT BRAXDY.* Tlie larger kinds of stone fruit may be stoned and scalded in plain water until they are soft, then drained and placed in bottles with tlieir weight of sugar-candy and double the weight of white brandy. Pears and pippins may be scalded, peeled, cored, and served in the same manner. GRACES AU MELON. Peel an average-sized melon, remove, the seeds, cut the flesh into thin slices, bruise it and pass it through a sieve: to each pound put the juice of a lemon strained tlirough muslin, and twelve ounces of double refined loaf-sugar. Let it stand awhile; work it well together, and put it into your ice-pot and ice it.127 OCTOBER. OCTOBER Dessert fok Six ok Eight Persoxs. Blowers, fruit, figures, or canclelabi’a in the centre of the table. Gros biscuit b coupcr: Sultana cake. Grosse glace ii bananas. Four compotes, viz. Compote d’epine-vinette. Compote cle poires. Compote dc grenades. Compote de nefles. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. French macaroons. Biscuits aux marrons. IMeringues farcies. Biscuits au riz. Two corbeilles of fresh fruits. Oranges; figs. Four assiettes diverses. Bullace cheese. Marmelade d’abricots. Gelee de cerises. Almond paste. Sucreries, gaufres, burnt al- monds, French prunes, guava jelly, nuts, preserved ginger, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persoxs. Middle of the table: a stand adorned with objects of art, epergnes, flowers, fruit, &c.128 evertbodt’s dessert book. Gros biscuit u couper : Pistachio cake. Fromage glac(5. Four compotes, viz. Compote d’ananas. Compote de peclies. Compote de pommes b, la Portu- gaise. Compote de marrons au rbum. Two corbeilles de fruits crus, Corbeille de raisin. Corbeille de pommes. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Petit pains de Turin. Biscuits a I’orange. Massepains au chocolat. Pate b, la Ilollandaise. Four assiettes diverses. Orange or lemon paste. Marrons glaccs. Barberries in bunches. Marmelade de prunes. Four assiettes garnies de bon- bons, petites pastilles, &c. Orange jelly, pistachio nuts, les .quatre mendiants, petites guir- landes, dates, dragdes, olives, confitures b la Valencienne, candies, plaisir, petits baisers, confiture of golden pippins, iced water, salibres, baskets of sugar, flambeaux, &c. Dessert for Tw^lvt;: or Eighteen Persons. Centre of the table embellislied vritli ornamental plate, porcelain, statuary, or candelabra. Four corbeilles of mixed fruits. Plums, pears, oranges, lemons, apples, grapes, service berries, nuts. Two grosses glaces moulees. Gros biscuit b couper: Genoese cake. Fromage de Gruybre. Four compotes, viz. Compote de pommes b la Demi- doff. Compote de coings. Compote d’oranges. Compote de pruneaux. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Pains de marrons. Biscuits en caisse. Meringues b ITtalienne, Macarons de Hollande. Four assiettes diverses.' Pommes b I’Allemande.OCTOBEE. 129 Confiture cle poires. Biscuits de fruits. Tailladins d’oranges glaces. Four assiettes de gele'es inoul^es. GeMe d’epine-vinette. Gelde de bar, Gelde de pommes. Gelee de ndfles. Four assiettes garnies de candis. Abricots: cerises. Pcches: tiges d’angdlique. Four assiettes montdes garnies de sucreries, &c. Marmalades, almonds and rai- sins, fruits b, I’eau - de - vie, marrons grilles, fruit en sa- lade, raisin^, citron chips, nougat, grosses glaces pana- cbdes, four salt-cellars, four baskets of sugar, four carafes of iced water, &c. I do not pretend to have enumerated all the fruits one can call into requisition to increase the variety of our desserts; steam communication with all parts of the world now brings us a continual supply of foreign fruits almost too numerous to specify, and without depending upon these far-fetched productions, any one but an English housekeeper would unhesitatingly have recourse to the most humble fruits yielded by his native land, rather than not display a tempting diver- sity of provisions. The Italians, though dwelling in a land teeming with horticultural produce, do not scruple to present their guests with laurel berries, pine almonds, jujube fruit, prickly figs, wild arbutus berries, and even make confitures and ices of violets, tuberoses, mallows, jonquilles, elder-flowers, pinks, jasmine blossoms, and roses, all of which we should K130 EVEBYBODT’s DE3SEET BOOK. seoi’Q to employ even in the privacy of a family re- past. The whortleberries of our woods make an excellent compote with the addition of lemon juice; and the small American apple, so common in some parts of England, forms a most agreeable preserve when treated in the same manner as cherries; and in Erance a de- licious marmalade is prepared from blackberries and sloes. But we, who are not a-painstaking people, would despise the aid of such inferior accessories, and unless we can command sumptuous pine-apples or costly peaches, often entirely forego the charms of variety and contrast which the more humble kinds of fruit are capable of creating. 1. Pistacliio cake. 2. Sultana cake.* 3. Compote of bullaces. 4. Compote d’dpine-vinette. 5. Amaudes, &c., b, la royale.* 6. Pommes b, I’Allemande. 7. Marmelade de poires.* 8. Gelde d’epine-vinette.* 9. Matrons glacds.* 10. Poires confites au sucre.* 11. Barberries in bunches.* 12. Bullace cheese.* 13. French macaroons.* 14. Biscuits aux matrons. 15. Meringues ordinaires.* 16. Marmelade de verjus.* 17. Barberry cakes.* 18. Glaces au raisin.131 OCTOBEE. PISTACHIO CAKE. Beat to a snow the whites of eight eggs, take six ounces of pistachio nuts, weighed after they are blanched, chop them rather small, but do not pound them; add them to the eggs, and gradually dredge in twelve ounces of sifted loaf-sugar and four ounces of dried flour. "When these things are well mixed, put in half a pint of thick cream whisked to a froth. Stir - all together, glaze, and bake for an hour. SULTANA CAKE.* Take a pound of the best sultana raisins, wash, pick, and dry them, then soak them for a night in brandy. Work twelve ounces of fresh butter to a cream, put with it nine ounces of powdered loaf-sugar; whisk the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs to a high froth, mix them with the sugar and butter, then put in twelve ounces of dried flour; beat all tho- roughly together, and when the oven is quite ready add the sultanas and spice according to taste, stir it lightly, and put it into a buttered hoop. Bake it for an hour and a quarter. COMPOTE OF BULLACES. The large kind of bullace plums should be used for compotes. Do them very gently in a syrup made with half white wine and water and half a pound of sugar132 eteetbodt’s desseet book. to n pint of fruit. A little cinnamon may be added. Serve cold with the syrup poured over. C01\rP0TE D’^PINE-VINETTE. Take a pound of ripe barberries, do not stem tliem, but let them remain in bunches ; boil them slovrly in a strong syrup of sugar and water for seven minutes, strain them from the syrup, arrange them in a glass dessert-dish, and before pouring the syrup over them add to them a small glass of eau-de-vie. This compote is greatly improved by the addition of a little jelly, or fresh fruit juice, to give colour to the syrup. AMANDES, ETC., 1 LA EOYALE.* Take half a pound of either blanched sweet al- monds, filberts, or pistachio nuts, place them in a slack oven or before the fire to dry; then mix toge- ther six ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, a little spinage juice, and the white of an egg. Put in your almonds, work them well in the mixture, and arrange them in the form of shamrocks or stars on buttered paper. Dry them in a cool oven. POMMES A L’ALLEMANDE. Pare and core one pound of pippins, put with them six ounces,of powdered sugar, a good glass of Ehine wine (white), and the strained juice of two good sweet133 OCTOBEE. oranges. Simmer this by the side of the fire until it is pretty thick, then mix with it four ounces of apricot or pine-apple jam, and four ounces of blanched sweet almonds, cut in half or pounded to a paste, as preferred. Give it a boil up, put it into a greased mould, and when quite set turn it into a dessert-dish, and garnish it with candied orange chips. MARMELADE DE POIRES.* Put some dressing pears into spring water, and simmer them slowly until they are tender; take them up, peel them, and scrape all the pulp away from the cores; to each pound of pulp put twelve ounces of loaf-sugar, place it in a preserving-pan over the fire, and stir it well until it is quite stifi*, then put it into pots or moulds. The pears may be slowly baked in- stead of being boiled, if more convenient. GEL^E D’]^:PINE-VINETTE.* Choose some fine ripe barberries, stem them, and to each pound of fruit put twelve ounces of loaf-sugar and half a pint of water, put them into a jar or sauce- pan, and dress them until they are soft; then press them through a gauze sieve, take the juice that is ob- tained, and simmer it down until it is thick enough.evebtbodt’s desseet book. 134 MARKONS GLACIS.* Bake, boil, or grill jour chesnuts, blanch them care- fully, and throw them into a syrup of sugar boiled until it is a candy. Let them stay a few minutes, take them up, and either sift powdered sugar over them, or dry them as they are. POIEES CONFIXES AU SUCRE.* Take some small dressing pears, which should not be very ripe, put them into fresh water over the fire, and boil them for abojit five minutes. Take them up, peel, core, quarter, and throw them into cold water. Prepare a strong syrup of sugar and water, put in the pears after you have dried them on a cloth; let them simmer for a few minutes, then pour them into a pan to become cold. Boil up the syrup again, replace the pears in it, simmer them for five minutes, then pot them for use. Cochineal may be added, if colouring be desired. Quinces may be served in a similar manner, and either may be afterwards glazed, candied, or simply dried. BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES.* Put a pound of fine barberry bunches into a pint of water, simmer them nntil they begin to soften; drain them, and to the liquor in wdiich they were boiled add a pound and a half of loaf-sugar ; boil and skim it till135 OCTOBEE. it is thick, put in your fruit, and when it looks clear place it in glasses, further reduce the syrup, let it cool somewhat, pour it upon the barberries, and tie down closely. They can be served glacees, by first draining them from the syrup, dusting them well over with sifted sugar, and drying them in a slow oven. BULLACE CHEESE.* To every quart of bullaces put three ounces of loaf- sugar, place them in ajar, and bake them until they are soft. Press them through a sieve, and add half a pound of powdered sugar to each pound of pulp. Stir it over a gentle fire for nearly two hours, put it into shallow trays, and when dry sift sugar over it. FEEXCH MACAROONS.* Blanch half a pound of sweet 'and one ounce of bitter almonds; beat them in a mortar, adding the whites of two eggs, and a spoonful of candied orange- flowers. Boil down a pound and a quarter of highly- refined loaf-sugar and half a pint of water until it forms a thick syrup ; add the almonds, stir them over a gentle fire until the proper consistency is acquired. Pour it into a dish thickly dusted over with sifted sugar. Porm the paste into small balls, place them upon sheets of white paper, strew sugar upon them, and bake for nearly twenty minutes in a slow oven.136 'eyeetbodt’s desseet book. These macaroons are recommendable on account of their requiring but few eggs. BISCUITS AUX MAERONS. Blanch and beat to a paste six ounces of Spanish chesnuts, add to them the rasped rind of a lemon, a pound and a half of powdered white sugar, and the whites of ten eggs beaten and strained. Mix all thoroughly smooth, and, upon paper, shape it into biscuits of any form you please. Bake them in a very gentle oven. MERINGUES ORDINAIRES.* Beat the whites of eight eggs until they are a very stiff froth, then mix with them eight ounces of pounded and sifted white sugar. AVhen quite a smooth paste, place spoonfuls of it upon sheets of paper rubbed with a little oil or butter; put them quickly into the oven, and directly they are sufficiently set retire them and press the back of a spoon upon the under side of each, so as to make them hollow in the middle; replace them in the oven, and when they are perfectly firm take them out. Let them grow cold, and fill them with marmalade fruit jelly or whipped cream, fasten two together by moistening the edges with white of egg; rub the outsides also wuth the egg, roll them in sifted loaf-sugar, and let them dry in an airy place.OCTOBEK. 137 MARjrELADE DE VERJUS.* Grapes that are not fine or ripe enough to introduce as a dessert fruit make a very good marmalade. Stone them and place them in a jar, put them into an oven, and "when they are soft enough to pulp pass them through a sieve, and. to every pound of pulp put twelve ounces of the finest loaf-sugar. Put it into a preserving-pan, and boil it until it is pretty thick. Put it into moulds or pots to keep. BARBERRY OR CHERRY CAKES.* Pruise your fruit and put it over the fire to soften, pass the pulp through a sieve, add an equal weight of powdered loaf-sugar,, stir it over the fire till it be sufficiently thick, lay it at the bottom of earthen baking dishes, put them into a slack oven to dry ; cut it into biscuits of what form you please, and dust them with sugar. GRACES AU RAISIN. Bruise your grapes, which should be quite ripe; pass them through a sieve, and put to the pulp half its weiglit of clarified sugar. Let it stand for two or three hours; add to each pound the strained juice of a fresh lemon; mix well together, and ice it.13S eveetbodt’s desseet book. NOVEIMBEK. Desseut for Six or Eight Persons. Centee of tlie table: an assiette montee garnie de bonbons, &c., or a vase of flowers. Gros biscuit h, couper: cocoa-nut cake. Two compotes, viz. Compote of bullaces. Compote of quinces. Four assiettes gamies de petit four. Cup cakes. Massepains aux fruits. Petits soufflds. Plaisir. Two corbeilles gamies de fruits frais. Oranges: apples. Four assiettes gamies de confi- tures, &c. Confiture of Siberian crabs. Medlar jeUy. Marmelade d’dpine-vinette. Baked pears. Nougat, nuts, drage'es, amandes, pralines, figs, raisins, marrons, glacds, fruit en salade, cande- labra, sugar, salt, &c. Dessert for Eight or Tavelve Persons. Middle of tbe table: a decoration of flowers or fruits in baskets upon a plateau, or some handsome candelabra, groups of statuary, or pastillages.139 NOVEMBEE. Gros biscuit b, couper: almond cake. Fromage de Brie. Four compotes, viz. Compote de marrons b I’ltalienne. Compote de poires. Compote de pommes b I’Espag- nole. Compote de ndfles. Four corbeilles de fruits crus meles. Damsons, medlars, valnuts. Services, Brazil nuts, winter strawberries. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits aux pistachis. Portuguese macaroons. Massepains a I’Espagnole. Biscuits a la creme. Four assiettes diverses. Pate de coings. Marmelade de pommes. Oranges en salade. Poires blanches. Four assiettes montees garnies de bonbons assortis, dried fruits, dragdes, batons sucres, &c. Two assiettes garnies de gelees moulees. Gelde de cassis. Gelde de groseilles framboisees. Cocoa-nuts,marrons grilles, burnt almonds, dates, les quatre mendiants, raisine, candied orange chips, biscuits de fruits, caramels, pralines, pe- tites pastilles, grapes, sucriers, salibres, &c. Dessert for Twelve or Eighteen Persons. In tlie middle of the table an epergne of flowers or a grande assiette montee, containing bonbons and other sucreries. Gros biscuit a couper: pound cake. Pistachio cream. Glaces de chocolat b la creme. Fromage de Eoquefort. Four compotes, viz. Compote d’oranges a ITtalienne. Compote de pommes b la Demi- doff. Compote de coings b la Cardinale.140 eyeetbody’s eesseet booe. Compote de raisin muscat. Four corbeilles garnies de fruits meles. Tangier oranges : grapes: ches- nuts. Pistachio nuts: American ap- ples, &c. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Tourons de differentes couleurs. Small sponge cakes. Biscuits a la canelle. Pate de marrons. Four assiettes garnies de fruits candis. Noix confites and glacdes. Cerises glacees. Brugnons au caramel. 4lpine-vinette en grappes. Four assiettes garnies de mar- melade. , Marmelade d’abricots. Marmelade d’oranges. Marmelade de framboises. Marmelade de verjus. Four assiettes diverses. Morello cherries a Teau-de-vie. Salade de pommes au vin. Marrons grilles. Gelde d’oranges. Almond paste, confitures a la Valencienne, grapes in brandy, ratafias, petits baisers, pre- served ginger, Agues au su- cre, French prunes, stewed Normandy pippins, petites guirlandes, almonds au natu- rel, Barcelona nuts, filberts, oranges, pears, flambeaux, su- gar-baskets, salt-cellars, &c. "When flowers grow scarce, it has been recently con- sidered fashionable to use ferns as a table embellish- ment ; but we, in our experience, have been led to look upon them in rather a culinary point of view, from constantly having had them associated with the char- cuterie establishments of the Continent, where they are employed more as a garnish than as a decoration, so that we should esteem it about as proper to sport a bunch of pot-herbs as to condescend to the class141 NOTEMBEE. Cryptagamia for the ornamentation of our epergnes. There are, even in England, plenty of evergreens to supply the deficiency of flowers; lustrous box, and cherry laurel, myrtle, Cyprus, bay, Eoman and Por- tugal laurel, cedar, aucuba, arbutus, ilex, &c.; and we must be destitute indeed if we cannot command the services of some of these to lend freshness to our fruit- baskets and variety to our flower-vases, instead of being forced to the expedient of using such perishable objects of attraction as ferns, though their employ- ment is, I own, fully sanctioned by custom. Before I leave the subject of dessert arrangements, allow me to counsel the discontinuance of the horrid practice of permitting the junior members of the family to invade the room immediately the dessert has been placed upon the table ; it is a signal for general discomfort; and to subject respectable adults to bo elbowed out of their positions and disturbed in the due possession of their particular appointments by a horde of small juveniles, is a misery and an injustice which the most infatuated of parents should avoid in- flicting upon the friends they pretend to entertain.evektbodt’s desseut book. 142 1. Cocoa-nut cake. 2. Cup cakes.* 3. Biscuits aux pistaches. 4. Small sponge-cakes.* 5. Portuguese macaroons.* C. Quince paste.* 7. Compote de marrons k I’lta- lienne. 8. Compote de poires k la Car- dinale. 9. Compote de pommes k I’Es- pagnole. 10. Baked pears. 11. Marmelade d’dpine-vinette.* 12. Marmelade de pommes.* 13. Medlar jelly.* 14. Preserved Siberian crabs.* 15. Petits souffles.* 16. Plaisir.* 17. Marmelade de coings.* 18. Glaces k la creme de Ye'nus. COCOA-NUT CAKE. Blancli and grate half a pound of fresli cocoa-nut, and put it to simmer in a pint of new milk until the latter is reduced one-half. Put a pound of flour into a pan, make a pit in the middle of it, add to it a little salt, a pound of butter beaten up, twelve eggs lightly whisked, the milk strained from the cocoa-nut, a good dessert-spoonful of ginger, and a teacupful of mild yeast. Mix it well together, and let it remain six or eight hours in a warm place to rise. Before making it up add twelve ounces of roughly-crushed loaf-sugar. Porm it into a cake, and bake it in rather a brisk oven for an hour and a half. CUP CAKES.* Take four well-beaten eggs, mix with them four ounces of powdered loaf-sugar and four ounces of flne143 NOTEMBEE. dry flour. Eub the insides of ten or twelve small cups with butter, sift sugar into them, strew in a few currants well cleaned and dried, and half fill the cups with the cake mixture. Bake until they are well browned, and when cold turn them into a dish. BISCUITS AUX PISTACHES. Take one pound of pistachio nuts and two ounces of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them in a mortar until they are a smooth paste, being careful to use some white of egg to prevent them turning oily. Beat separately the whites of sixteen and the yolks of eight fresh eggs, add to the latter the grated rind of a lemon and half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar; mix the yolks and the whites together, and by slow degrees dredge in two ounces of flour mixed with another half- pound of sifted sugar. Lay the paste in paper cases, glaze with sugar, and bake in a slow oven. Let them grow gradually cold before you remove them from the cases. SMALL SPONGE-CAKES.* Separate the whites and yolks of fifteen eggs; with the yolks mix a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower, rose, or laurel water, one pound of very finely powdered and sifted sugar, and the grated rind of a fresh lemon; beat these ingredients for a quarter of an hour; theneveetbodt’s desseet book. 144 \rliisk the whites of the eggs until they form a high froth; join them to the yolks, &c., and dredge in slowly three-quarters of a pound of very dry flour. Mix all lightly together, and place it in your tins, dust sifted sugar on the tops, and bake in a gentle oven. PORTUGUESE MACAROONS.* Beat to a snow the whites of twelve eggs. ’ Pound to a smooth paste one pound of blanched sweet al- monds ; put them together; add six ounces of dry potato flour, and five ounces of sifted loaf-sugar. Mix well, and place portions of the paste in very small patty pans, glaze the tops with' powdered sugar, and bake until they are of a fine clear cinnamon colour. QUINCE PASTE.* Put your quinces whole into water, and simmer them slowly until they are tender. Pare, core, mash, and pass them through a sieve. Place the pulp in a pre- serving-pan over the fire, and add to it' an equal weight of fine loaf-sugar; boil it until it is thickened, and spread it upon sugared plates or papers. Dry it slowly in a slack oven, and keep for use between paper. COMPOTE DE MARRONS 1 LTTALIENNE. Boil a sufficient number of chesnuts in water with the pared rind of an orange. "When they are quiteNOVEMBER. 145 tender blancli them, and place them in a compote dish. Make a strong syrup with half a pound of loaf-sugar and the strained juice of six sweet oranges ; let it cool, pour it over your chesnuts, and decorate with tufts of candied orange chips. COMPOTE DE POIRES 1 LA CARDINALE. Throw your pears into cold water without paring them; place them upon a very gentle fire and simmer them slowly for seven minutes. Take them up; peel, core, and cut them into halves or quarters as pre- ferred ; put them into a preserving-pan with their weight of fine loaf-sugar, and a teacupful each of red wine and water. Do them very slowly over a slack fire, and when of a good colour place them in the com- potier, skim the syrup, and pour it over them. Should the pears be very ripe they may be peeled, cored, cut up, and at once done in the syrup. COMPOTE DE POMMES A L’ESPAGNOLE. Peel nine or ten small pippins, core them carefully so as not to destroy the appearance of the fruit; as you do^them, throw them into a stew-pan in which you have a quart of water, the juice of two lemons, and a pound of loaf-sugar; add two chopped dressing apples, place it over the fire and simmer it slowly. When the pippins are tender take them up and ar- L146 eyeetbodt’s desseet book. range them in your dish. Reduce the syrup until it gives away from the sides of the saucepan; pour it into as many small cups as you have pippins. When it is cold and firm turn one over each of the pippins, and serve. This with good effect can be made a co- loured compote by adding half a pound of either raspberry, current, or quince jelly in making the syrup. BAKED PEAKS. Take some good dressing pears, wipe them, but do not peel them, or deprive them of their stalks, arrange them in a dish, and place them in a very cool oven for six hours. When done let them grow cold, put them into a glass dish, smother them in pounded loaf-sugar, and just glaze the tops with a salamander. MARIMELADE D’^PINE-VINETTE.* Put your barberries into a preserving-pan with enough water to moisten them, let them come to a boil, then mash and pass them through a sieve, put the pulp again into the pan and reduce it; add a pound of loaf-sugar to each pint of fruit. Boil it down until it is tolerably stiff, and put it into glasses or moulds.147 NOVEMBEE, MAKMELADE DE POMMES.* Peel, core, and cut up your apples, put them into a jar, place them in a gentle oven, and bake them until they are soft. Mash them smooth, add to them half their weight of loaf-sugar and some lemon rind very finely shred. Stir it in a preserving-pan over a clear fire until they are pretty stiff". MEDLAR JELLY.* Pick over your medlars, choose those that are ripe but perfectly sound; halve them, and put them into a saucepan with the juice of a lemon and enough water to fioat them. Boil them until the water is reduced to a third of its original quantity. Mash the fruit in the liquor, put it in a very fine sieve, and let the juice run through without using pressure. Take weight for weight of the latter and highly refined loaf-sugar, boil and skim it carefully, and when thick enough place it in your glass mould. This jelly should be beautifully clear when well made. PRESERVED SIBERIAJST CRABS.* Wipe a pound of fruit and prick it well with a fine needle, sprinkle it with sugar, and let it remain for a night. Make a strong syrup with a pound of loaf- sugar and a good half-pint of water; put in your crabs ; L 2everybody’s dessert book. 148 do them slowly until the skins begin to crack. Take them up with a skimmer; reduce the syrup, and, when quite a jelly, put it with the fruit. PETITS SOUFFLES.* Chop up a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger, add to it a tablespoonful of rum, three ounces of potato flour, the whites of three eggs, and one pound of refined loaf-sugar powdered and sifted; stir all well together to form a smooth paste; arrange it upon greased paper, so as to give the soufil^s the form of long thin strips; let them set in a cool oven, then glaze them, and, when cold, detach them from the paper. PLAISIR.* Every one who has lived in Paris must be favour- ably acquainted with tlie crisp, delicate-tasted kind of gaufre that is known by the attractive name of “ Plaisir.” It is made thus: Mix into a smooth paste half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, the rasped rind of an orange, the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, a tablespoonful of olive oil, a glass of brandy, an ounce of fresh butter, six ounces of the best flour, and a glass of water. Put a sufiicient quantity of this batter into your wafer-iron, dress it in a quick but not fierce beat, and when done, curl it once round andNOVEMBEE. 149 lay it inside a slack oven to set while you continue to make others until all your composition is ex- hausted. MARMELADE DE GOINGS.* Cut some ripe quinces into quarters, take out the cores, and put the fruit into a saucepan with a little water at the bottom. Do them very slowly, and, when they are quite soft, mash and pass them through a sieve; add an equal weight of fine loaf-sugar, put them into a preserving-pan, and do them slowly by the side of the fire until they are well thickened and of a good colour. Put it by in glasses or moulds well tied down. GRACES A LA CRflME DE V^NUS. • Put into a basin the thinly shred rind of a Seville orange, a stick each of cinnamon and vanilla, both broken small, a little mace and anise-seed. Pour over these ingredients a quart of boiling hot cream, and let it stand for two or three hours; then put it into a saucepan with the yolks of eight eggs, and twelve ounces of loaf-sugar in powder. Stir it over the fire with a spoon until it is nearly ready to boil. Strain it through a sieve, and, when cold, ice it.150 everybody’s dessert book. DECEMBER. Dessert for Six or Eight Persons. Centre-piece a plateau with pastillages, figures, candelabra, &c. Gros biscuit b, couper; lemon cake. Glaces de cafd ii la creme. Two compotes, viz. Compote de grenades. Compote de marrons h. ITtalienne. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits Proveu9aux. Petits soufflds k ITtalienne. Bitter almond macaroons. Gaufres. Two corbeilles de fruits frais melds. Oranges: nuts. Service berries: grapes. Four assiettes garnies de fruits confits. Concombres confits. Greengages au sucre. Abricots confits. Prunes confites. Four assiettes montees garnies de bonbons. Dates, candied citron chips, rai- sine, marrons grilles, almonds, raisins, &c. Dessert for Eight or Twelve Persons. A stand of plate, porcelaiu, statuary, or flowers for the middle of the table, with candelabra and other accessories.151 DECEMBEE. Gros biscuit b, couper; plum cake. Fromage de Brie. Two grosses glaces aux fruits moulees. Four compotes, viz. Compote de pate de marrons. Compote de coings. Compote of Siberian crabs. Compote de pommes b ITndierme. Four assiettes de fruits frais. Pomegranates: pears. Tangier oranges: apples. Four assiettes gamies de petit four. Biscuits aux avellines. Citron macaroons. Massepains de pistacbes. Cocoa-nut macaroons. Four assiettes diverses. Confiture de marrons. Poires ou pommes tapees. Candied marmalade. Quince jelly. Four assiettes montees gamies de dragdes, fruits secs, cara- mels, pastilles, &c. Petites guirlandes, burnt al- monds, prunes, pralines, dried figs, cocoa-nut, fruit in salad, brandied fruits, nuts, iced water, baskets of sugar, salt- cellars, &c. Desseet for Twelve or Eighteen Persons. In default of flowers or fruits the surtout to be decorated with evergreens arranged in an epergne; or a grande corbeille of biscuits arranged en buisson may be had instead of the foregoing. Gros biscuit b couper: Portugal cake. Grosse glace panachee. Two fromages. Fromage de Neufchatel. Fromage de Roquefort. Four compotes, \iz. Compote de citrons. Compote de tailladins d’oranges. Compote de pommes b la Tici- ndse. Compote de pommes b la JSTor- mande. Four corbeilles de noix assorties. Almonds: filberts: walnuts. Barcelona: Brazil and pistachio nuts.152 eveetbodt’s desseet book. Pate de pommes. Marmelade de peches, Pate d’amandes. Four assiettes garnies de fruits candis. Fleurs d’oranger pralindes. Tiges d’ange'Iique. Marrons glacds. Avellines pralinees. * Plaisir, nougat, preserved ginger, guava jelly, les quatre men- diants, dried fruits, confitures h. la Valencienne, olives, flam- beaux, four sucriers, four salibres, &c. I hope all my readers, whether of a hospitable habit of mind or otherwise, will by this time he convinced that in future they cannot hold themselves justified in making other than a liberal (not to say profuse) dis- play at their desserts. The confectionary and most of the made dishes here mentioned are available all the year round, and if made at home require a cook of but very average abilities to prepare them. In compiling these pages I have no pretensions beyond showing housekeepers what things are suitable to have, and how they are made. Of course most of the compositions named can in towns be procured at any pastrycook’s, but provincial ±our coroeuies ae iruits crus melds. Black and white grapes, medlars, pomegranates, pears, China oranges, &c. Four assiettes garnies de petit four. Biscuits de Eheims. Katafias. Biscuits de Savoie. Queen cakes. Four assiettes montdes garnies de petits baisirs, batons sucrds, pastilles, caramels, &c. Four assiettes diverses. Marmelade de coings.DECEMBER, 153 hosts are frequently obliged to be independent of ex- ternal aid, and these, with this work at hand, will find it is quite easy to furnish an attractive repast if they make their choice of viands con amove, and do their best to have them made so as to be worthy of the ap- probation of the guests they entertain. 1. Plum cake.* 2. Lemon cake.* 3. Portugal cake.* 4. Biscuits aux avellines. 6. Citron macaroons.* 6. Massepains de pistackes. 7. Biscuits Proven9aux.* 8. Compote de marrons. 9. Compote de grenades. 10. Compote de coings . 11. Compote of Siberian crabs, 12. Compote de pate de marrons. 13. Candied marmalade.* 14. Quince jelly.* 15. Poires ou pommes tapees. 16. Pate de pommes.* 17. Glaces a I’ananas. 18. Glaces de cafd b, la creme.*' PLUM CAKE.* Work a pound of fresh butter to a cream ; mix in half a pound of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar; beat the whites of eight eggs to a high froth, put them with your butter and sugar, whisk the eight yolks for half an hour, and add them to the other ingredients j stir in gradually a pound of dried flour, a quarter of an ounce of mixed spice, a good glass of brandy, a quarter of a pound each of candied orange, citron, and154 eveetbody’s besseet book. lemon peel, a quarter of a pound of blanched sweet almonds cut into thin slips, and a pound of currants washed, dried, and afterwards plumped in brandy. Line your hoop with buttered paper, put in your cake, and bake it for an hour and a half. Ice it before it is served. LEMON CAKE.* Take the whites of ten eggs, add to them half a wine-glass of orange-flower water; beat them to a high froth, then by degrees put in a pound of powdered and sifted loaf-sugar and the grated rind of a fresh lemon. "When mixed smooth add the yolks of the ten eggs beaten to a high froth. Just before putting it in the oven stir in twelve ounces of dry flour; butter a mould, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. An orange cake is made by substituting orange for the lemon. POETUGAL CAKE.* Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, add two tea- spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and beat them to a paste. Take a pound of loaf-sugar powdered and sifted, work into it a pound of very fresh butter, add the almonds, a glass of brandy, and ten eggs. "Whip all well together, and when quite smooth put in eight ounces of washed and dried currants. Pour it into a mould, and bake it for an hour in a gentle oven.DECEilBEE. 155 BISCUITS AUX AVELLINES. Elanch lialf a pound of filberts and one ounce of bitter almonds, pound them in a mortar, using a little white of egg with them to prevent them from oiling. Eeat the yolks of three eggs, half a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, and the rasped rind of half a lemon. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a snow, add to them the yolks, &c., and very gradually sift in one ounce of dried flour. Put the mixture into paper cases, and bake until they are of a nice colour. The slower the oven is, the lighter and better these will be. CITKON IMACAROONS.* Take the rasped rind of two lemons, and a pound and twelve ounces each of blanched sweet almonds and fine dry sifted loaf-sugar. Pound the almonds, citron rind, and the whites of four eggs in a mortar, add your sugar ; beat all well together, and form the paste into small balls; lay them upon paper, glaze them, and bake them for fifteen or twenty minutes. MASSEPAINS DE PISTACHES. Blanch half a pound of fresh pistachio nuts, sprinkle them with a little orange-flower water, and pound them in a mortar. When they form a smooth paste add them to a strong syrup composed of a pound of156 eveetbodt’s desseet book. loaf-sugar boiled with a pint of water until it begins to look opaque. Stir all well over the fire until it is pretty stiff, then spread it upon a table dusted over with powdered sugar; roll it rather thin, stamp it into biscuits, lay them upon a baking tin, and do them slowly. BISCUITS PROVEN9AUX.* Blanch four ounces of sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds, mix with them a little rose-water, and pound them to a paste; add the rasped rind of a lemon, two ounces of candied orange-fiowers, and eighteen ounces of finely-powdered and sifted loaf- sugar. Beat the yolks of twelve new-laid eggs. Mix all together, and whisk it for twenty minutes; then put with it the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a snow. Butter the insides of small patty pans, lay in your composition, bake in a slow oven, and when done and cold take them out of the moulds and glaze the tops with a cake icing. COMPOTE DE MARKONS. Choose about a dozen very fine Spanish chesnuts, just pierce the outer rind to prevent their bursting; place them in a saucepan to boil, and immediately they will peel easily take them up. Blanch them carefully, and put them in a stew-pan with half a pint of Avater,157 DECEMBER. the strained juice of a lemon, and six ounces of loaf- sugar. Simmer them for a quarter of an hour. Transfer them to your dessert-dish, reduce the syrup until it is almost a glaze, let it cool a little, and pour it over your chesnuts. COMPOTE DE GEENADES. Carefully open three very ripe pomegranates of a good size, take out the grains of the fruit, and throw them into a boiling syrup of sugar boiled with suffi- cient water until it is well thickened. Let it just come to a boil, and then retire it from the fire. As soon as it is cool enough pour fruit and syrup into a glass dessert-dish, and serve when quite cold. COMPOTE DE COINGS. Peel and core your quinces, halve them if small, or if large quarter them, and put them into a stewpan with a little water and their weight of sugar. Place them over a slow fire, and w^hen they begin to simmer withdraw them a little, and let them do very gently for two hours. Take them up, place them in your dish, reduce the syrup to a jelly, strain it, and pour it upon the fruit. COMPOTE OF SIBEKIAN CEABS. Strip your fruit from the stalks, weigh it, and for a pound of crabs boil together a teacupful each ofeveetbodt’s desseet book. 158 orange juice and water, a little orange rind pared ex- ceedingly thin, and eight ounces of loaf-sugar. Lay in your fruit, and do it as slowly as possible; when it is perfectly tender, take it up, arrange it in a compo- tier, skim and reduce the syrup, allow it to cool, and pour it into the dish. COMPOTE DE PATE DE MAEEONS. Blancli a plateful of sweet chesnuts by first boiling them in water and peeling them, mash them to a paste, put them into a stewpan with half their weight of loaf-sugar and a wine-glass of Maraschino or white wine. Do them over the fire until the sugar is dis- solved, then either put them into a mould slightly oiled and turn them out when set, or pass them through a coarse sieve into your dessert-dish, that they may resemble a trifle. CANDIED MARMALADE.* Choose some very sound Seville oranges: take off the rinds, and boil them in plenty of water until they are soft. Pound them in a mortar, add the pulp and juice freed from the pips. Put all together into a preserving-pan, with twice the weight of loaf-sugar highly refined. Boil it for nearly three-quarters of an hour over a very slow fire. Put it into small moulds to keep.159 DECEMBEE. QUINCE JELLY * Take half a dozen large and very ripe quinces, wipe tkem, cut them into quarters and core them; add to them a pint of grapes bruised, and put them into a jar; place them in a very slow oven, and let them bake gradually. When soft pass them through a. fine sieve, add to the juice an equal weight of loaf-sugar and the white of an egg. Place it over the fire, and when a good head of scum has risen skim it, and continue boiling and skimming until it is a jelly. If the fruit has been long enough in the oven it will not require a colouring, otherwise a httle cochineal may be added with the egg. POIRES OU POMMES TAP^ES. Peel your fruit, put it into cold water, and boil it slowly; when it gets soft take it .out and drain it. Make a syrup with a pound and a half of loaf-sugar to a pint of water, put in the fruit, and when it comes to a boil retire it, and put it upon tiles to dry ; repeat this process of boiling and drying thrice; then slightly flatten the fruit, and if sufficiently dried pack it away in boxes. PATE DE POMMES.* Pare, core, and cut up some fine-flavoured dressing apples, put them into a jar, squeeze over them the160 eyeetbodt’s besseet book. juice of a lemon, and bake them until tliey form a pulp; add to them their weight of loaf-sugar, place them in a preserving-pan, and do them over a clear fire until they are exceedingly thick. Make them into lozenges, or dry them slowly in small moulds. Sift sugar over them to keep. GLACES 1 L’ANANAS. E-educe a good sized pine-apple to a pulp, add to it a pound of clarified sugar, and let it stand some time to infuse; add the juice of two or three lemons; strain it through a sieve, mix with it half a teacupful of water; stir all well together, and ice it. GLACES DE CAF£ 1 LA CEfiME.* Slightly bruise a quarter of a pound of freshly- roasted Mocha coffee, put it into a skillet with the yolks of eight new-laid eggs, and ten ounces of loaf- sugar powdered and sifted ; stir it for a few moments over a very gentle fire; then pour in, by degrees, a quart of good cream. Let it come almost to a boil, stirring it the whole time. Strain it through a sieve ; let it grow cold, and ice it. c.-