Med K9079N. .* 1CHAPMAN AND HALL, Ld., LONDON. COOKERY BOOKS Indian Dishes for English Tables. By Ketab. Crown 8vo, no pages, 2s. 6d. Hilda’s “Where is it?” of Recipes. Containing many old CAPE, INDIAN, and MALAY DISHES and PRESERVES ; also Directions for Polishing Furniture, Cleaning Silk, etc.; and a Collection of Home Remedies in Case of Sick- ness. By Hildagonda J. Duckitt. Twelfth Thousand. Crown 8vo, 4^'. 6d. The Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery and Bills of Fare. By Major L . Fifth Edition. Large Crown 8vo, 8s. Breakfasts, Luncheons, and Ball Suppers. By Major L . Crown 8vo, 4^. Official Handbook of the National Train- ing School for Cookery. Containing Lessons on Cookery, forming the Course of Instruction in the School. Compiled by “ R. O. C.” Twenty-sixth Thousand. Large Crown 8vo, 3^. 6d. Cookery up to Date. By Mrs. Humphry (“ Madge,” of Truth). Crown 8vo, 3^. (id. A Book of Sauces. By S. Beatty Pownall, head of the Cookery Department of the Queen newspaper. Crown 8vo, 3^. (d.HILDA’S DIARY OF A CAPE HOUSEKEEPERGROOTE POSTE Fro7/i a sketch by Ma>y FrereHILDA’S DIARY OF A CAPE HOUSEKEEPER BEING A CHRONICLE OF DAILY EVENTS AND MONTHLY WORK IN A CAPE HOUSEHOLD, TOTH NUMEROUS COOKING RECIPES, AND NOTES ON GARDENING, POULTRY KEEPING, ETC. BY HILDAGONDA J. DUCKITT AUTHOR OF ‘HILDA’S WHERE IS IT OF RECIPES LONDON CHAPMAN AND HALL, Ld.22■ WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. CRTTo HER ROYAL HIGHNESS IJrincess xrf WHO, IN SOUTH AFRICA’S DARKEST HOUR, CHEERED IT BY HER GRACIOUS PRESENCE, This Book IS, BY PERMISSION, RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED AS AN EXPRESSION OF LOYALTY AND DEVOTION.VPREFACE My former hook, Hilda^s Where is it of Recipes, vjdiS most kindly received by the public both in England and South Africa, and it has occurred to me that it would be a help to many who, like myself, were born in South Africa, as well as to those who intend to make their home at the Cape, or whose official duties bring them out here for several years, if I wrote down some more of my house- keeping notes. I shall be glad indeed if what I have learnt by lifelong experience and experiment should lighten the labour of those beginning the responsibilities of housekeeping in our dear old Colony, under conditions new and strange to them. In order to avoid repetition, wherever a recipe has already been given in Hilda's Where is it, reference to it is made instead of the recipe itself being quoted. I have also noted down from reliable sources some information regarding other parts of South Africa with which I am not personally acquainted. H. J. D. St. Lucia, Waterloo Green, Wynberg, October igoi.HILDA’S DIARY OF A CAPE HOUSEKEEPER INTRODUCTORY MY OLD HOME Before beginning my Diary itself, I will write down a short description of a South African farm, my own old home, where more than half my lifetime was so happily spent. My grandfather, William Duckitt, and his wife (whose maiden name was Mary Whitbread), with their three sons, William, Fred and Charles, came over from Esher in Surrey early in 1800. My grandfather held an appointment in the Treasurer-General’s office in London ; he was asked by the Hon. H. Dundas, who was then in the Ministry, to go out to the Cape and superintend the establishing of model farms in suitable localities, as everything in the shape of cereals, hay, etc., was so inferior and fearfully expensive. So we inherited the love of farming and gardening from our ancestors. In an old journal written by my grandfather there is an interesting account of the voyage to the Cape in a man-of-war ; he brought out a staff of thirty servants, also farming implements, some stock, sheep and cows. They I4. BMY OLD HOME 2 had exciting times on board, having been fired on in the Bay of Biscay by a French frigate, and returning a broadside ! What the result was he does not say—but they ultimately arrived safely in Simons Bay, and began farming operations as soon as they landed, planting fruit trees on what I fancy must have been the spot where the Admiralty gardens now are. My grandfather must have been wonder- fully active, from what he says of the long distances he rode on horseback. He had the choice of three farms, and finally settled at Claver Valley, where he afterwards died. Groote Poste, in the near neighbourhood, which became my father’s property in 1839, had been built in the old Colonial style, with its quaint high gables and neat brown thatch, and long wings of flat roofs on either side, a mixture of Dutch and oriental, built in 1808, very likely by masons from Batavia. This dear old place, was prettily placed on a slope, which necessitated the front part of the house having a high stoep and cellars underneath—which cellars were most useful for storing wine, fruit, winter pumpkins, etc. The rooms were all on the same floor, and above were spacious lofts for storing grain and winter pears and quinces. This most delightful of homesteads had been built for, or became the property of, Lord Charles Somerset—one of the early Governors of the Cape—who had a sort of model farm there, and frequently resorted to it for shooting. Groote Poste was admirably situated—to the north lay a panorama of five hills, on the middle one of which, “ Capoc Berg ” (? Kapot, “ cloak,” perhaps from the white cloud which often rests on it), is an interesting monument or beacon, erected by Sir Thomas Maclear, the then Astronomer Royal, who took many valuable surveys andMY OLD HOME 3 observations from there. Standing on that hill one gets a lovely view of the country for almost one hundred miles round. Table Mountain stands due south, and from no other place have I ever seen so perfect a view of the “ Table ” and “ Twelve Apostles.” On the west the wide Atlantic stretches before your gaze, with only little “ Dassen Island ” like a speck on the horizon, and further off Robben (2. e. Seal) Island, and many a time has one seen the lights from the different lighthouses, and those on the Green Point shore, when riding over the hills in the evening. To the east one has a glorious view of the long range of mountains stretching from Hanglip on the south to the further Piquetberg and Clanwilliam ranges on the north. On the slopes below there are many lovely farms with their cornfields and vineyards and droves of cattle and sheep. When my father first went to Groote Poste some of the buildings had got out of repair, and it altogether required much restoring, as it had fallen into the hands of a very indolent farmer, who had not kept the buildings in order. All this I do not remember, but I do remember much that is lovely and bright in this beautiful South African home, and will try and give just a little sketch of how a year would be spent, and of each season’s work as it comes and goes. My father married Hildagonda Versfeld, a Dutch lady, who, though so early in the century, had had an excellent English education. My uncles also married into Cape Dutch families—and we all lived, and I am glad to say have always lived, in a most cordial and happy way with both our English and Dutch relatives. My mother loved flowers and gardening, and under-MY OLD HOME 4 neath the dining-room and drawing-room windows were beds of mignonette, stocks, brilliant masses of poppies and cornflowers, and hedges of pale-blue plumbago. About thirty yards below the front of the house was a small lake, or rather, a large pond ; on the lower side of this w'as a strong bank, cemented inside. On the bank was planted a hedge of scarlet and pink geraniums ; these reflected their bright masses of blossoms in the water. At the further end of this pond nasturtiums and white arum lilies grew in wild profusion, with endless rose hedges of the sweet old pink “ Capse,” or “ French ” rose, as it was called (the kind brought to South Africa by the French Huguenots), and the “ Odorata,” as fragrant as attar of roses. To the right of this was a fertile valley, which was the vegetable- garden—where relays of crops were grown of peas, beans and cauliflowers, and here too in the summer the lovely melons grew, so cool and luscious, it still makes one’s mouth water to think of them ! Then there was the large fruit orchard—with its varieties of pears and apples—and below all this, stretching south, a long poplar wood—with an undergrowth of arum lilies and a sort of red gladiolus, and nasturtiums (washed down in the watercourse from the garden above). The boughs of the poplars were festooned with number- less artistically woven nests of the little orange and black finches called here “ Kaffirfinks ”—nests made soft and warm by the young ears of rye and wheat picked off in the adjoining fields ; there were also hundreds of turtle- doves who made these woods their home, and filled the air with their sweet music, cooing and warbling in the early morning. But I am sorry to say, that though these birds were lovely and added much to the life and beautyMY OLD HOME 5 of the farm, they were very destructive to the grain, and had to be kept in check; so in the autumn evenings, or early winter, the boys would go down to the wood and bring in thirty brace of these sweet little doves— to be, converted into pies ! We were a large family. The girls were educated by governesses at home—and my brothers had tutors to begin with, and then were sent to school or college—but all the boys chose to be farmers. The two elder settled near the old home, William at Karnmelkfontyn {i.e> Buttermilk-spring, from the white colour of- the water before they sunk the deep well), and Fred at Orangefontyn —and they came over on Sundays, when the family generally gathered in time for Sunday service, which was always conducted by my father according to the Church of England Prayer-book; or if they went instead to service at Darling in the morning, they would turn up in the afternoon for tea at Groote Poste. January, though the beginning of the year in diaries, is the middle of summer at the Cape. It was a busy month, the threshing of the grain took up some time ; later on steam threshing-machines were introduced, and what took a month to thresh out in my young days is quite finished in a week now by the machine. The grain, when threshed, was carted to Malmesbury, the nearest railway-station, the empty wagons bringing back supplies of groceries for the year, as well as whatever was re- quired on the farm—guano for fertilizing the soil, etc. The sheep would be “ dipped ” this month,^ and there were ^ Sheep have to be dipped three times a year. Now a special “ Scab Act” makes dipping compulsory, and special officers under Government travel about the country to see it is done.MY OLD HOME 6 a hundred and one things which daily turned up to do on the farm. We had a mill worked by horses for grinding our corn—for, as there were always an average of twenty men to feed, baking and cooking were no sine- cure. We had a man cook, who was an East Coast negro, rescued from a slave dhow. Many of these negroes, both men and women, were at that time indentured on farms, and made excellent servants. In February the grapes began to ripen, and about the middle of the month some of the muscatel, and green grape, would be ready for pressing • the large vats would now be cleaned out, the cellars or building where the wine was made all swept and garnished, and got ready for the wine-making. Some of the wagons might still be carting grain, if the harvest was a good one. These months every one would be very busy, and, as the weather was too hot for shooting, few visitors would turn up. We kept indoors during the hottest part of the day, and never found it unpleasantly warm in the early morning, when we helped to gather the ripe melons, figs, and vegetables. Tomato sauce was made, and all the different jams and preserves, so the days would pass happily and busily. The wine-making would still go on in March, as the different varieties of grapes ripen in succession. The red French makes excellent “ Hermitage.” Then, too, we made “ Moss Bolletjes,” a delicious bun which every housekeeper prides herself on making a good supply of, as the rusks made by cutting the bun in slices and drying it in the oven are so much appreciated by every one with their early coffee. In making “ Moss Bolletjes” (for which there is a very good recipe in Hilda's Where is it, p. 143), substituteMY OLD HOME 7 the fermented juice of the fresh “ Steen ” grape, or “ Hane- pot,” for the yeast made of raisins. The Hanepot grape was also now made into Grape jam.^ The fruit remains whole if carefully preserved. We used sometimes also to make raisins. The grapes, after being sorted and all the bad ones taken out, are put into small baskets, and dipped into a large pot of boiling “ lye,” made of the ashes of a shrub called Gouna, growing on the Karoo—which contains a quantity of potash or soda. This extract is made so strong that an egg could float on it, and the grape after being immersed in the boiling mixture for a few minutes cracks ; we then lay them out on mats on our flat roofs, and in a fortnight they will be beautifully clear and dry for packing away. Excellent raisins are made at Worcester and Robertson, Cape Colony, it being very dry and warm there. Many of the farm labourers, whose homes were at the nearest Moravian Mission Station, “ Mamre,” got a holi- day at the end of March, and were allowed to go home for a few weeks. Everything after a long South African summer has a burnt-up and very dry appearance at the end of March, and every one welcomes the first showers. In the Western Province, where my home was, less rain falls in the summer than in some other parts of the Colony, and those who saw the country with its brilliant carpet of wild-flowers in September and October, would hardly believe it was the same desert-looking place they saw in the latter part of March, and yet it is marvellous how the sheep and cattle find their food on the hills, every scrubby little bush affording pasturage. The climate during the month of April is most delightful. ^ Hilda's Where is il, p. 84.MY OLD HOME 8 The nights are very dewy, and refreshing rains begin to fall, and soon the country has a soft tinge of green. The farm is all alive, the labourers return from their holiday. All the manure which has been collected in the stables and kraals where the sheep and cattle sleep is soon carted on the lands prepared for ploughing, and when that is done there will be time for a short fortnight at the seaside. May and June are busy ploughing months, when all the farm is astir early and late. The lambs have to be attended to, and sometimes on cold wet evenings we would make a bowl of hot “egg-flip” for our brothers and the young men learning farming on the estate, who came in from collecting any stray lambs on the hills. This egg-flip, by the way, is most delicious and nourishing ; made by boiling some “young wine” {i.e. wine of a year old made on the farm), adding some water, cinnamon, cloves and sugar, and pouring the boiling mixture into a bowl in which half-a-dozen eggs have been well whisked—it was keenly relished and appreciated by the tired men who had been out all day in all weathers. The shooting season closes on the ist of July, and we generally had friends to stay about the 20th of June, when buck and partridge shooting would be the order of the day, a large number of the neighbours alternately meeting on each other s pro- perties, and going sometimes for a day’s shooting to the cattle-farms on the seaside belonging to my brothers and cousins. Meanwhile, the flower-garden gave ample occu- pation to those of us who loved gardening, and we would beg for an active man to dig it while we did the planting it being impossible to get a man spared for work in the garden when the farm work is in full swing. o In July the farmer prepares new land for wheatMY OLD HOME 9 growing—first clearing away the bushes and then plough- ing it up roughly to expose as much of the surface as possible to the air and the rays of the sun ; this land is later on harrowed and sown with rape, which affords summer pasturage for cattle and also fertilizes the land. I forgot to say that we had very large stables, in which over thirty horses could be comfortably housed. We each had our riding horse, and a great many of course were also employed for farm work ; the roads being heavy we seldom drove with less than four horses in a cart, and eight in our large four-wheeled conveyance, a sort of coach on four wheels. We had about fifty milch cows on the farm, and the dairy work was more irksome than at the present time, when every one has a cream separator and sends the cream to the nearest “ creamery.” The supervision of the dairy was left to one of the daughters of the house—the churning and washing-up being done by a very capable coloured woman, while we creamed or skimmed the pans of milk —set in rows as each day’s milk came in. What lovely cream and butter it was! Every week the surplus was sent for sale to Cape Town, generally to regular customers. As the farm labourers and herds had to be fed daily, a sheep was killed every morning, and often a stall-fed ox ; the herdsmen on the out-stations, and their wives, lived in comfortable cottages and gardens, near the kraals, which were bedded down with straw, and fences of thick layers of rhenoster bush made a warm shelter for the animals on cold nights. These men had regular rations given them of one sheep, about 30 lbs. meat, 2 lbs. coffee, salt, and thirty fish—salted haarders (a kind of mullet caught inMY OLD HOME quantities at Saldanah Bay, and sent round to the farms by people who bought them from the fishermen). If a new piece of vineyard had to be planted, the ground would be deeply trenched in August and got ready for planting, which was done about the end of the month. The ground for putting in melons was also trenched and pre- pared. On a large estate where there were horses, sheep, cows,ostriches, vineyards, poultry and pigs,there were endless things to be seen to, the many buildings had to be kept in repair, wire-fencing to be put up, and so there was much to interest and occupy both men and women. We had a post three times a week from Cape Town, the advent of which was hailed with great delight, and the current topics of the day were generally discussed at meal-time, when the whole family met. We, daughters of the house, being our own dressmakers, had lots to do, and writing or reading aloud alternately made the time pass all too quickly, when it was too hot for gardening or riding. The best spring months are September and October, when flowers appear everywhere as if by magic; no one can imagine what the wealth of flowers is who has never seen it! Among them, the crimson gladiolus, the proteas of all kinds, the aigrettje or little aigrette, and hundreds more. The hills overlooking Groote Poste are scented of an evening with lovely sprays of avond bloemetje, or evening flowers ; the petals are red outside, and stiffly closed by day, and open their white faces as the sun sets. As you rode over those hills, the soft fragrant scent was wafted to you. The lovely view of sky and ocean reached to Table Mountain, so clearly defined in the distance, and every now and then a revolving light from one of the lighthouses could be clearly seen at the distance ofMY OLD HOME II forty miles as the crow flies; then down in the ver- dant valley nestled the dear old home, with its many gables, whitewashed as is common in the Cape Colony—all this has formed an indelible picture in my mind’s eye, and I see it clearly now! On the western side of the farm, stretching towards the Atlantic, the veldt is more sandy; gazanias in all their brilliant colours; mesembryanthe- mums—bright red and orange; nemesias in softer tints ; big bushes of cinerarias, delicate masses of blue and mauve and white, in fact, every shade and tint meets the eye, and, oh, how one does thank God who has made all things beautiful! During these months every family in this hospitable neighbourhood would fill their houses with friends and relatives from the town and suburbs. Picnics to the sea- side were always popular; some of us had an eight-mile drive over a very rough road (but no one seemed to mind that!), and some went on horseback. Well, the day is lovely, all the good things have been packed and the big hampers put on our novel drag, a great farm buck-wagon, such as is used for “ transport riding,” and has been turned into a comfortable conveyance by soft seats made of bags filled with straw, and covered with rugs. We liked this better than any other cart or wagon, as a party of ten or twelve could get into it. It was drawn by ten horses, as the road to this lovely spot down in a sheltered cove of the Atlantic, called “ The Grotto,” is rather heavy. The party gradually settle into their seats—those on horseback get mounted—and the whole cavalcade starts with peals of laughter and exclama- tions of delight! The driver, one of our best farm whips, and my brother on the box. Suddenly one of the house-MY OLD HOME hold would have a moment’s agony lest some one had forgotten some important part of the goodies. “Oh, B., are you sure that is put in ? ” is the anxious question ! Well, says the man on the box, “we cannot stop now So we subside, trusting that nothing has been forgotten, and on goes the merry party. Soft balmy sunshine, flower-scented air, laughter and happiness, and a really good shaking occasionally over ruts, has by the time we reach our destination given every one an excellent appetite. The horses are taken out and knee-haltered ; the hampers unpacked, and some collect wood to make a fire for roasting “the sasaties”i and boiling the potatoes and the freshly-caught fish, and when all is finished and ample justice done to the various good things, then comes the time for coffee—which by the way is an extract made at home.^ The milk is boiled, and a little, say 2 ozs., of this coffee put in a cup of boiling milk makes a delicious beverage. But all good things come to an end, and soon it is time to return home. Mamre, the pretty Moravian Mission Station, is another favourite spot for picnics. The village is embowered in oaks with streams of running water, the quaint little houses stand each in its garden, among the peach trees pink with blossom, and vines are trailed up the front of the cottages where the Hottentots live who form the mission population ; then there are the large substantially- built church and school-rooms, the funny old water- mill, and the dear kind Moravian missionaries full of hospitality. How well one remembers a happy day spent there with dear Sir Bartle Frere, who was our honoured ^ ■ Hilda’s Where is it, p. 214. 2 /did., p. 36.MY OLD HOME 13 guest, and how interested he was in the schools and work of the mission station. One of our most delightful outings, when living at Groote Poste, used to be the annual stay, about Christmas and New Year, at„Buck Bay—a cattle-farm belonging to my eldest brother, with a picturesque old Colonial house. It had a voorhuis (hall or ante-room) opening into a large kitchen and store-room, and bedrooms on either side. To this place we went by ox-wagon generally, the roads being sandy, some of the elder ones driving in a cart and six horses; the wagons taking extra bedding, pillows, and stores. There being no shops near, everything has to be thought of and taken ; and it required two wagons. We always took cook and housemaid, and there was a boy who carried water, and brought wood. The routine of the day was—early coffee and rusks, then bathing, then a breakfast of a broiled “ Hottentot” fish, just caught—most delicious and juicy—and bread-and-butter; walking, fishing, then early dinner; the usual afternoon rest, which in this climate is absolutely necessary ; coffee or tea and cake as you like, and more fishing and walking and sitting on those grand rocks; supper and bed. The gentlemen would shoot pheasants, partridges and buck, and so the days would pass, one day very like another. But thanks to the rest and change, we would all return home invigorated and strength- ened, ready for the remaining summer days, which are long and trying, especially so in February and March. In Natal I hear almost every family goes to the seaside, and live in tents for a month. The mouth of the now historic Tugela is a favourite spot for camping-out. We often had musical evenings in the dear old home at Groote Poste. There were four of us sisters ; I was the leastMY OLD HOME 14 gifted that way, though I loved some of my old songs. A and L used to sing pretty duets. The old piano was in the large dining-room, and often, if a few more friends came to stay or spend the evening, how quickly the dinner-table was wheeled out of the large folding door, and the whole party would be merrily waltzing round, or we would have a sixteen set of lancers, or “ Sir Roger ” ; what merry hearts they were ! People who live in the country are generally very fond of dancing, for the mere exercise, I fancy. Most of the old houses were built with a large hall. It was quite an easy matter to get up a dance, for the hall floors were generally polished and smooth, and often among the farm labourers there would be some very musical ones who could play the fiddle, or perhaps a friend playing the concertina would supply the music. Naturally there was not a very select or extensive programme; just the waltz, polka, quadrille and lancers ; but the young people were happy and enjoyed themselves. In the old days, when the wealthy landowners had slaves, many of them had a band, but .all these are things of the past. Now every country district has its village, where stands the church, concert- room, the doctor’s house, parsonage and local merchant ; a town-hall soon follows, and a library, tennis courts, etc., and local concerts and dances in the hall have taken the place of the merry impromptu home parties of the days of forty years ago. How well I remember a country wedding in the dear old home, of a favourite brother to a dear cousin. The village church had not been built yet, so the marriage ceremony was performed in our pretty bright drawing-room. The wedding breakfast was served in the dining-room, andMY OLD HOME 15 after the happy couple left, we wound up the festive day with a little dance. I often wonder whether people had more energy or strength in those days, for certainly nothing seemed to be a trouble or worry then, though we did so much of planning, arranging, and carrying things out our- selves. Living many miles away from a town, everything was cooked at home. There was the large oven (built into the kitchen), which took a cartload of wood to heat; by wood I mean “ rhenoster bush,” which grows on the hills, and strange to say, wherever land has been under culti- vation, in a few years it is covered with this bush, which makes excellent firewood, and was put round the kraals as fences as. well. When this oven was heated twice a week for baking all the bread required on the farm, we generally made a supply of sponge- and tea-cakes at the same time, and turn-overs for picnics. The lofts in the winter months were well stocked with pears and quinces (apples did not thrive so well, but the large calabash pear, baked in the oven and served with sugar and cream, was delicious). There was always nice fresh butter, and a well-stocked poultry-yard, and with all these home supplies it never seemed a difficulty to have friends staying in the house. There were two visits we always looked forward to with great delight as children. After the harvest was garnered in, in December, my father and mother, with all of us and our nurse, would go and stay with our mother’s only sister, who married Mr. Philip Cloete, and lived on a beautiful estate called “ Klapmuts ” in the Stellenbosch neighbourhood. It took us a whole day to drive there in our family coach, which was a double Cape cart on four wheels, drawn by eight spanking horses. The goodies were packed in the box which formed the front seat of the wagon, (“ voor kesse ”) ;MY OLD HOME a raisin loaf was always put in the side-pocket of the wagon, as we children got very hungry before it was time to out- span, and we thought that the best of all. We would outspan twice a day, for breakfast and lunch, giving the horses an hour’s rest; we all used to be very pleased to help unharness the horses, and then when they were knee-haltered and had a good roll in the sand to cool themselves, they were allowed to have a nice drink, but some naughty ones would delight in rolling in the water if it was not very deep. We left home at five in the morning, and some of the brothers were left in charge of the house and farm. We usually arrived at our destination at five o’clock in the afternoon, and how well I remember the hearty greetings and welcomes from all the dear cousins and uncle and aunt, and then there would be refreshing tea and fruit, lovely apricots and soft brown figs and pears galore ; then the whole party would stroll to the lovely old garden—the scent of jasmine and “ gardenia ” (a large tree with bright shining leaves and starry white blossoms, oh how sweet they smelt!) ; roses and other lovely flowers, dahlias and hy- drangeas, grew all along the walk, but what had the most attraction, I must confess, was the row of fig trees growing beside a small stream. There was such an abundance that every one could have a feast. Bananas also grew most lux- uriantly. There were lovely oaks all round the house, and a wonderful spring of water, which fed the pond where the horses and sheep were watered ; one could see the water bubble up, as if it were boiling out of the ground in this fountain, but it was most beautifully cold and sparkling. A rich valley formed part of the garden and orchards; then there were vineyards of muscatel and green grape, “ groen i6MY OLD HOME 17 ^ druive,” which is, I think, a most delicious eating grape, and ripens early. How happy we children used to be, and how quickly that week or ten days sped by. All about “ Klapmuts ” there were lovely homesteads, built by the old Huguenots,- and Dutch. “ Noitgedaachtsbuilt by the Cloetes, now a Government farm for fruit growing and training school, and many others, among them one we enjoyed going to, “ Elsenberg,” such a charming old place owned by the Myburghs. What a show of fruit and preserves we were treated to! First there was tea, and fresh preserves handed round in cut-glass dishes, and pretty little silver forks to eat it with. Then after we had walked round the garden, coffee and cake was served in the dining-room, and fruit of all de- scriptions. What lavish hospitality and genuine hearty kindness one remembers receiving from those dear old people. Then in the autumn we looked forward to our visit to “Clasenbosch,” my mother’s home, and owned by her brother, Mr. Versfeld. We had to drive all the way, as there were no railroads in those days, and after the long hot drive how refreshing it was to get under those beautiful oak trees and revel in the exquisite scenery as we got nearer and nearer to our destination ; and how we enjoyed driving into Cape Town by wagon and having a day’s shopping, and spending the pocket-money which had been saved up for monthsj most of it being the proceeds of the sale of our chickens (we each had our own). In those days we had to drive all the way to Kalk Bay and Simons Bay, and what a treat it was to be taken on board a man-of-war, and shown all the wonders of a big ship ! What delightful memories we took back home, andMY OLD HOME when the holidays were over, and our governess came back, we all set to work, looking forward to the spring, when our visits were returned by our uncle and aunt and their family; then charades were got up or happy hours spent in walking through the flower-carpeted veldt in the morning. “ Groote Constantia” was the home of my mother’s uncle and aunt, another favourite house to stay at. You ap- proached it through an avenue of oaks, and an exquisite view burst on you as you reached the front door, which stood hospitably open on the broad stoep. There was an air of old-world nobility about that grand old place which nothing else, I think, comes up to. As you look down towards the Flats, what a scene it was, of sea, mountains, and cultivated valleys; and, again, up to the mountains, above the house, the soft green vineyards and the wooded glens, where the tree ferns grew, the peach orchards, the old reservoir (near where used to be swimming baths one hundred years ago), the chestnut trees, the exquisite rose-apple trees, with lovely foliage and flowers something like a powder-puff! the large gardenia trees (a native of the Cape). Words fail to describe all the beauties of that garden, the shady walks, the variety of trees and shrubs. You enter the house by a hall, not as large as you find in some of the Cape houses. The floor is of polished, tessel- lated Batavian stones, and the ceiling dark polished wood. A magnificent “ stalagmite ” stood in one corner, which had been brought from the Cango Caves by one of the old Cloetes. On the right hand, as you entered, was a large drawing-room, quite fifty or sixty feet long and beautifully proportioned and prettily furnished, and in the centre of the room was suspended a hanging basket of cut flowers, i8MY OLD HOME 19 so prettily arranged. The picture of that bright room, with its long, old-fashioned mirrors reflecting trees and sunshine and blue skies ; the dear old grand-uncle and aunt, with noble faces full of kindness and hospitality, such innate goodness depicted in every expression, how well I remember it all! What a hospitable home it was! how strangers were welcomed and entertained ! How kind they were to the widow and orphan many can bear their testimony to. They were a large family; some had married, but the home party were the brightest and most charming people you could meet, and everything bore evidence of artistic taste in that delightfully arranged home. The dining-hall extended about one hundred feet, the whole length of the building, but for the sake of comfort a partitiorl was put up of folding doors, making the dining- room about fifty feet long. There were cellars running under the house. Some of the dark ones were used for storing choice bottled wines, potatoes, etc., and the front ones, which had nice windows, were used by the servants of the family—emancipated slaves and their descendants. One charming Malay woman had been the nurse, and was devoted to the family. The butler, “ Old Charles,” was a negro from the East Coast. How exquisitely he kept the silver and polished the cut-glass dishes and goblets on the sideboard, and all the small panes of glass in the large bright windows. The beautifully proportioned building called the Cellar was some little distance off, divided from the dwelling- house by a moat, which was always filled with water, for use in the Cellar and in case of fire, as the house was entirely thatched with brown reeds between its orna- mented gables. The Cellar was double-storied, under a flatMY OLD HOME 20 loof. 1 he front has some well-preserved stucco-work, which is still much admired by visitors. The wine-making in my young days was done in the old classic way of “ treading out the grape ” (of late years the best of machinery is used), and the world-famed Sweet Constantia took the.first prize at many a French and English exhibition. Mr. Cloete imported the choicest varieties of grapes, and it is to them the Colony owes the delicious" Saschelas, a delicate pale-pink grape for eating; the “ Hermitage,” a beautiful bluish-red grape, which makes a sort of claret, and other endless varieties. The enormous vats, filled with the wines of different vintages, were made of teak-wood, beautifully kept and almost polished; they always impressed me with a sense of the neatness and order which pervaded the whole place. From the long cellar a door opened into a bright room, hung with most interesting old maps—since then bought by the Royal Geographical Society, and now in London old weapons and other relics, some quaint old-fashioned chairs and escritoires ; this was Mr. Cloete’s own sanctuary. From this room the door opened on to a most exquisite view. First there was a flight of one hundred steps leading down to the valley, where was the peach orchard, vegetable- garden, and endless pear trees and bananas, also some coffee bushes brought from Mecca, or raised from seeds of the Mocha coffee, I am not quite sure which. The view from that door looking east up to the mountain, with its dark wooded ravines and its lower slopes clothed in bright pink heather and gladiolus, according to the season of the year, is one never to be forgotten. The place is still in excellent order, and now belongs to the Cape Government, and beautiful wines are still made.MY OLD HOME It is worth a visit from any one coming to the Cape. Carts at the Wynberg Station take people over, but a permit is required, and can be had on applying to the Agricultural Department, Cape Town. I have before said that the Cape Dutch were famed for their hospitality, not only to the English and Dutch, but French and Russian. My uncle and his eldest son, who married my eldest sister, spoke French fluently, and every French man-of-war that came into Simons Bay, on their way to the East or from there, would always be called on and some invited to lunch. What fun it used to be! and they would invite the family back to lunch or dejeuner on board in Simons Bay. How well I remember, on one special occasion, driving down against wind and tide, for no railroads or even hard roads existed then, and unless you crossed “ the beaches ” at low tide there was consider- able danger. All this, no doubt, added to the excitement and pleasure of a dance on board. The English naval people were always made most wel- come, and the officers enjoyed riding up, and there would be picnics on the hills, and walks up Table Mountain ; the party meeting at Hout’s Bay Neck, driving there by six in the morning and returning to dinner at Constantia in the evening, full of happiness, and none too tired even for a round dance or song. Life in those days, in the seventies, was most enjoyable, but the rush of life now seems to have swept much of the old- world hospitality away, people seem too busy now, but there is no doubt that, given a moderate income, the conditions of life at the Cape can be made most enjoyable. The climate lends itself to outdoor excursions, walks and pic- nics. Gardening is a most enjoyable occupation.MY OLD HOME 22 By November and December summer has set in and the fields are ripe for the harvest. What a pretty sight it is to see the reapers ! Some twenty-five years ago reaping- machines were not so common as now, and though the work is now quickly and far less expensively done, it is not so interesting as watching the band of trained men as they gracefully handle the scythe with that peculiar swing, and neatly lay down the golden sheaves. Soon all is safely garnered in and ready for the threshing- machine, and if there has been no rust in the wheat, what grateful rejoicing there is at the “ Harvest Home,” when the labourers are generally regaled with some extra dainties. And so the .sheep having been shorn and the crops gathered and the men settled with, there comes a lull in the busy farm life; though the vineyards have to be sulphured for oidium,i and the sheep dipped, the.se are but minor matters. I forgot to say that ostriches roam about in small numbers in their natural state in the Flats towards the seaside, and I remember one summer’s evening, near Christmas time, our faithful old Hottentot ox-herd came in, gravely saluting “the master,” and scratching his head, as they are wont to do, said, “ Master, I have found a nest with seventeen ostrich eggs a little way inside your boundary ” (in those days the farm was not small). Of course there was great excitement, for just then ostriches were at a premium, and in due course of time these eggs were hatched and the young ones caught and brought home. The heart-broken parents were left, I am sorry to ^ The blight that ravages the vineyards and spoils the grapes unless sulphured constantly.MY OLD HOME 23 say, to mourn their loss, for indeed ostriches are most affectionate parents. My eldest brother, who had a great many on his cattle-farm, has often told me it was heart- rending to see them when robbed of their young. The young birds throve splendidly under our care—fed on cut-up lucerne, bran, and chopped hard-boiled eggs just at first—and were sold at ;^’i5 apiece when a year old. Ostriches are such voracious creatures that many practical farmers have found it does not pay to keep them in camps in large numbers, if they have to be entirely fed. If kept in large enclosures, they find their own food from a succulent saline shrub which grows in the eastern pro- vincial parts, and also at Berg river, where the Messrs. Melck still have large numbers of birds.^ Living so far away from town or village, everything possible was made on the farm ; for instance, the hard fat from the sheep and goats that were killed was con- verted into excellent candles, for kitchen and stable use. Though they gave a bright light, they constantly required snuffing, which was very awkward. Perhaps we could have escaped this difficulty by plaiting the wicks. Candle-making, I fear, is a thing of the past everywhere. In the most out-of-the-way place the trader goes to, shops spring up and paraffin and candles are sold. Soap was also made. Now that also is easily got everywhere. Fat or tallow is used by the Boer people for soap-making a lady who lived at Potchefstroom told us how every house- hold made their own soap—and we are often supplied with a piece of Boer soap from Berg river for rubbing on any ^ An interesting practical book on Ostrich Farming in South Africa, by Mr. Arthur Douglas, of Fleatherton Towers, Grahamstown, is pub- lished by S. W. Silver, 67, Cornhill, London.MY OLD HOME 24 hard material we want to stitch with our machine, without blunting our needled Different days of the week had different duties. Monday the washing went out; the water used for it came from natural springs a little higher up than the pond described ; the bleaching-ground and big iron pot for hot water were by the washing fountain. The drinking fountain was some way off. Thursdays and Fridays were ironing days —one of the women on the farm doing the washing and another the ironing. The baking was done on Tuesdays and Fridays, by our man cook Abraham. Friday the dining-room was turned out and floors polished; and Saturday the drawing-room was done, and fresh flowers arranged in a hanging basket in the centre, and all the innumerable vases filled; it was such a bright, cheery room with its large windows. We always trained young servants to help the elder ones ; sometimes an orphan was indentured to us ; and we taught them all to read and write and work, and so life went on with its many duties and responsibilities; and I would assure those who may settle down on a lonely South African farm, that life need not be all drudgery, on the contrary, all work done—as unto the Lord—ennobles the humblest task, and the exer- cise of faith and trust makes bright and happy lives and homes wherever we are. ^ Both Dutch and English recipes for soap are to be found in an excellent book. The Colo7iial Household Guide, by A. R. B., published by Messrs. Darter, Cape Town, which all Colonists should get.. II29 S^anuatp January i.—Here I open my new journal, and who can begin a new year without a thought of absent friends, or without looking back to the past and forward to the future days, and all of joy or sorrow they may bring! By the last mail from England a friend writes, “ Describe Cape life,”—a difficult order, for people’s ways vary so. I have given above a sketch of life at my old home, Groote Poste, but if you follow my Diary month by month it will give you further particulars. If you have but a small house, a little garden, and a poultry-run, as we have now at Wynberg, one of the suburbs of Cape Town, and keep only one servant, the days have to be carefully mapped out to get all done. I would advise having two good ^ paraffin stoves, these if lit at 6.30 give a can of hot water for baths ; then the maid puts on another kettle, and makes the porridge in a pot placed on an “ Asbestos Sheet ” to prevent burning.^ The maid then tidies the dining-room, ^ Such as the “ Beatrice,” or else the “ Bismarck ” stove, sold by Rock and Dike, Cape Town. A special porridge-pot, sold by Whittenshaw, in Wynberg, requires no looking after, as it cannot burn. This same pot is useful for steril- izing milk for nursery use, by letting the milk remain in the pot while the water in the outside jar simmers for a quarter of an hour. The30 Jan. LAUNDRYWORK. RENT. FIREWOOD lays the table, and prepares breakfast—coffee, bacon, etc. Then we have prayers, and breakfast. Next the butcher comes for orders, and often a cart calls bringing vegetables, or the Damara women living at Constantia bring baskets of greens to your kitchen door. Then the ferns are watered and flower-stands attended to in summer. Hosing the flower-beds takes quite an hour. The maid does the bedrooms until 10.30 and then attends to the kitchen. Most colonial people do a little home dressmaking, and so the days go by. Laundrywork at the Cape still continues to be largely done by Malay women in wash-houses put up by the Municipality in Cape Town. There are a few laundries, but they always seem to become insolvent. On farms the washing is always done by some local person. House rent near Cape Town is rather high, and living not so cheap as in England. Servants also are a difficulty, yet, notwithstanding these drawbacks, the housekeeper need not despair. The climate is beautiful, and makes up for much, and at Wynberg, and the other Cape Town suburbs, every requisite is brought to the door. Firewood is brought to the door, and a very expensive item it is ! I find coke and wood the most economical fuel. Paraffin stoves are a great boon and help to the house- keeper, and excellent toast can be made on a Beatrice stove by adjusting the flame and putting the slice of bread on the top, where you would place your saucepan or kettle. Give the stove a careful wiping beforehand, and the most dainty person would not detect any taste of paraffin, advantage of this sterilizing milk by steam rather than by boiling is that the best part does not rise to the top as a skin, which is skimmed off.31 OLD COLONIAL HOUSES. ELSBNBERG- Jan. and a slice of toast can be made in a few minutes without the bother of lighting a fire. Colonial houses.—The old style of building was admirably suited to this climate, the part in which the family lived being mostly on the ground-floor, the thatched roofs, so cool in summer and warm in winter, were very pictur- esque, with their ornamental gable-ends. All about Stellen- bosch, French Hoek, and Ceres, these pretty homesteads still abound. Mrs. Trotter’s book. Old Colonial Houses (published by Batsford), gives many beautiful specimens, but I am sorry to say that, owing to a very high rate of insur- ance for reed-thatched houses, the ugly corrugated iron roof is put on whenever the thatch has become too old to repair, though a reed thatch will last about forty or fifty years if carefully attended to. On many of the pretty farms in the neighbourhood of Stellenbosch, fruit-growing, such as apples, pears and peaches, largely takes the place of vineyards. Rust in wheat and oats makes corn-growing very risky. (For the last two seasons the oat crops have been entirely destroyed by rust.) Strawberries and violets are a source of income on farms in the Stellenbosch neighbourhood ; dairy farming is also carried on very successfully. Near Stellenbosch the Cape Government have established an Agricultural College on the pretty old farm “ Elsenberg,” for many years the home of the Myburgh family. This place has great capabilities for providing excellent training for young men wishing to gain an insight into farming, for they have vineyards and orchards, corn of all sorts is grown, and cattle, horses and sheep successfully reared, and so an “ all round ” training is provided. The labourSERVANTS AND WAGES Jan. 32 question throughout the Colony is a difficult one, and high wages are paid ; the labourers being mostly coloured men. Servants are not plentiful or good, and to any mistress who has tact and patience I would say, get a young white or coloured girl and train her. I have found training a girl, if you can get one out of a nice home, very satis- factory, paying, if she is capable, £\ 2. month for the first six months and increasing to £\ lOi-. or ;.^i 15^.; ours make very nice bread and simple puddings. Men are paid by the week and women by the month. A general servant in Cape Town is paid £i 15^. or ';^2 a month. On farms there is usually some coloured family where one or two go into service. Natal, Orange River Colony and Transvaal employ native “ boys ” and coolies, but in Cape Colony we have a mixed coloured population. The women, as a rule, make very good cooks, but few stay with a mistress longer than twelve months. Many English ladies who keep an English nurse say they get on very well with a coloured cook, and perhaps a young girl as housemaid. I find the best way to train them is just to devote some time when you first get them, and give them an object-lesson in cooking or housework, letting them do things under your supervision—for instance, I would have cutlets and soup several days running, till they know exactly how to do it, and so on; take a cookery-book, if you don’t know much yourself, and teach practically, not by descrip- tion. One cannot give hard-and-fast rule.s, for most people have their own ways and like things done so, but I always arrange things to simplify the work, reminding my cook or housemaid of important items which they might forget; Cape girls are inclined to be careless and forgetful. For the care of children native servants are not so ad-Jan. 33 D HOME-MADE YEAST visable, as, though many of our coloured women are most faithful and attached servants, they have not, as a rule, been trained in habits of obedience and truthfulness themselves and consequently are not capable of training children to be truthful and obedient. Home-made bread is always cheaper and more nourish- ing, if it is good, than baker’s. Our Groote Poste brown bread is in Hilda!s Where is it, p. 13. The old Cape recipe for yeast, given in Hilda!s Where is it, p. 261, is excellent, though it often takes longer than twenty-four hours to ferment. In winter and very cold weather I find it best to make it thirty-six hours before required, or say at three p.m. if required at eight o’clock next morning. Recipe for yeast for home-made bread. I teacupful of hops. 1 lb. potatoes. 2 quarts water. (N.B.—salt to be added to the yeast, but to the flour when mixing the dough.) Boil the hops and potatoes and water for an hour, let it cool, and strain. • Then add four tablespoonfuls of flour and four of sugar and mix well. Put this in any well- corked fruit-jar; Mason or Hazel jar will do. All air is to be excluded for 24 hours, when the yeast will be fit for use. Keep it in a cool place. Bread.—Use half a teacup of above yeast for 4 lbs. ' flour, and screw up your jar again, it will keep for several bakings. The flour should be mixed with hot water and kneaded till no dough sticks to the hands; let it rise for two or three hours, keeping the dough warm, and bake in a good warm oven. It is best to arrange for the bread toJan. RAISIN YEAST. POULTRY 34 be baked while the dinner is cooking, which is, of course, a great saving. Raisin Yeast is used in the eastern part of Cape Colony. Crush in a mortar half a cupful of raisins, and put in a 2 lb. fruit bottle, with i tablespoonful of sugar ; fill the bottle to within two inches from the top with tepid water. It will be fit for use when all the raisins Jioat on the sur- face. This quantity is sufficient for 4 lbs. meal. Mix and knead the dough over-night, use all the liquid, pouring it on the flour in the bowl and adding warm water to the yeast sufficient to mix into the ordinary consistency. Start at once making fresh yeast by putting in the same quantity of raisins, but dorit wash the bottle, and leave a few old raisins in it. This sets it fermenting next time. Poultry.—Just a few words on this subject, strongly to advise poultry farming in connection with any other kind of farming you may undertake. Many books and hints have been written on the subject, so I will not go into detail, but just say that I find Minorcas excellent layers ; but Buff Orpingtons are splendid birds for growing, being hardy, and fit for killing in five or six months. I speak from experience, and would say that everything depends on judicious feeding and physicking. I have never had any disease in my poultry run. Once a day the fowls have a good hot mash of bran (about 1 lb. of bran to 18 fowls) and scraps, and early in the morning some mixed food, such as supplied by Calder and Co., Forage Merchants, Main Road, Wynberg, at ioj. per 100 lbs., consisting of mealies, barley, oats, and split mealies. This is very whole- some ; and the reason why so many people lose their fowls is owing to mealies being given as the sole food. At night we give them just a sprinkling of dry food again. BeforeJan. 35 THE POULTRY YARD moulting begins I give them daily, for a week, a table- spoonful of sulphate of iron, dissolved in hot water, for 12 fowls and mixed up with the bran mash ; and once a year when moulting, they get sulphur in the same proportion for a week or more. Unless fowls have a very large run they require these tonics. Our poultry run is about 60 feet long and 25 feet wide, and we keep 12 hens and i cock. Mealies are too fattening for laying hens, unless you have a very large field and only feed them with it at night. The supply of eggs and poultry is not equal to the demand near large towns, so one should always be able to get a market for one’s poultry and eggs. Poultry, if properly managed, can be made a great success.! A gentleman who came out for his health (neither he nor his wife being able to live in England) took a small farm on the Wynberg Flats of about five acres. He grows successive crops of green forage, and one crop of potatoes, which he puts in when his vlei (or pond) dries up; this vlei fills with water in winter, and is ready for planting in January. Of poultry he keeps 200 hens and 10 cocks, both Orpingtons and Minorcas. The former are splendid mothers, and the chickens grow out very quickly, being quite fit to kill in five or six months, and the young chicks are very hardy and find their food in a most in- dependent manner. The Minorcas are the best for laying; ^ Those interested in rearing poultry for sale should study the methods of the National Poultry Organization Society, 12, Hanover Square, London, who issue many interesting leaflets on Hatching and Rearing, Suggestions for Collecting Depots, etc. As the seasons at the Cape are the opposite of those in England, it is possible that by good organization our summer eggs would find a good sale in the London winter months.Jan. STILL POULTRY AND £ s. d. 36 during September my friend sold 1200 eggs on an average of 2s. id. per dozen. It cost him about I2J. a month to feed them, the fowls having about two acres of ground to run on. He considers a feed of pollard and bran in the morning {Jiot by preference), and a little mealies in the evening, the best food. Hens should be set early in September—or even the end of August, and then again the last week in February —taking care to set the hens in a cool place on sand, and being careful to dust them with insect-powder or tobacco- dust to keep insects away. I consider that to any housekeeper the keeping of one dozen hens and one cock can be a source of profit. Never let the hens get older than two years, as after that they do not lay well. Half-bred Orpingtons and Minorcas hatched in March lay in September. This shows how quickly they are full grown. It is a great comfort to have fresh eggs, which we are never without, and I also rear about fifty chickens, more or less—twenty-five in September, and twenty-five in March—and this enables us to have plenty of nice pullets. I attribute never having any disease amongst my fowls to being very careful to keep the run nice and clean, and giving the birds good water, and mixed food, which is not too fattening. I always let them have a run for an hour in the afternoon, and give them cabbage-leaves, etc., every morning. This newspaper cutting lately sent me will have interest for keepers of poultry. I do not know what paper it is from, nor the date. “Feeding and Housing of Poultry.—Experiments in the feeding and housing of poultry are far from common in this or in any other country, consequently the re-37 FEEDING AND HOUSING OP POULTRY Jan. suits of investigations conducted at the West Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station will be received with much interest. The first object was to test the respec- tive values of nitrogenous and carbonaceous rations for laying hens, and the second to ascertain the influence of floored and unfloored poultry-houses on the health of fowls. In the first experiment three lots, comprising as many breeds of fowls, were fed for seven periods of thirty days each on a nitrogenous ration consisting of middlings, linseed meal, ground oats, and maize meal in varying proportions, together with ground fresh meat and bone; and a like number of lots for a similar period received a carbonaceous ration, of which maize meal was the principal constituent In addition all the lots had either boiled potatoes or steamed clover hay, and at night all the whole grain they would eat, consisting of maize, oats, and wheat screenings, maize predominating for the lots fed with the carbonaceous ration. The result was emphatic. The fowls receiving the nitrogenous ration gained in weight at the rate of Ii8 lbs. per hundred fowls, as compared with 11 lbs., and though their food cost slightly more money, their advantage is accentuated by better returns in eggs. Not only were the eggs of the hens getting the nitrogenous foods more numerous, but they were larger, more fertile, hatched better, and produced far more vigorous chickens than those of the other birds. Both lots of fowls remained in good health throughout. A subsequent experiment has substantially confirmed the foregoing verdicts, though 'the gain in weight was not so pronounced in favour of the winning lots. The experi- ments as to the flooring of poultry-houses were perhaps a little surprising in their results. Two years’ careful inves-38 Jan. aARDBNING. WELLS AND WATER tigation has shown that fowls remain in as healthy a condition, and lay as many or more eggs, when kept in unfloored houses as they do when kept in houses pro- vided with floors.” Gardening.—I have so often been asked by new arrivals from England, who are contemplating making this land of ours their home—“ Can’t you write us a little book on gar- dening } and give us a few hints when to sow our seeds, as you gave us recipes in Hilda's Where is it to make your Colonial dishes and preserves.” I would advise them to get an interesting shilling pamphlet. Hints on Gardening Generally, by William Gowie, published by Grocott and Sherry, Grahamstown. There is another pamphlet, also a shilling, called Garden Notes for the Colonies and Abroad, by Messrs. Carter, High Holborn, London, which would be useful. If you are living in any part of the colony where rain falls in summer, such as the Eastern Province— Grahamstown, Queenstown—these books would be specially helpful. If you live in the Cape peninsula itself, you might sow your seeds a month later, unless you can water freely. Storing Water.—Water is always needed in the garden. In places where it is scarce many people have large under- ground tanks as well as dams. Artesian Wells are common now-a-days, and air motors are much used for pumping the water up wherever the house stands on higher ground. At the Towers, where one of my brothers lives, they have an “ air motor ”—something like a windmill—in the garden, which sends the water up to the house. I hear there is a man out here now who was very suc- cessful in finding water in Egypt and the Soudan, but I don’t know if this water-finder has been equally successful39 FRUIT. DOG AND GRAPE. JAM-POTS Jan. in South Africa. In the western part of the Colony, where the rains are so much more regular and the seasons more settled, irrigation is not much resorted to ; but in the eastern districts it is done by leading water by furrows from dams into the cultivated fields. January 2.—Real Summer.—This, like December, is one of our real summer months, the days being at their longest and often very hot, and very light clothing is required by day—in fact, just what one would wear for summer in England. But the nights are cold and dewy, and one must remember too that the absence of the long English twilight gives a feeling of sudden chill at sunset, and it is wise to be provided with a light wrap as protection if out at that time. Fruits.—There are plenty of apricots now in our garden, and figs and plums, strawberries, mulberries, melons, water- melons, pears and grapes, and by the end of the month our peaches will begin to ripen. January 4.—Our friends the M s have just arrived from England, he to take up his new appointment. They were so much amused to see Cape dogs eating grapes ! Some one at the station threw a bunch on to the platform, and a dog ate up every grape, pulling each off daintily till all were gone. People often have to keep a man firing off a gun in the vineyard when the grapes are ripe to frighten off, not only birds, but the dogs, who are so fond of them, and would get in if ever so small a hole were left in the fence; so the fable of the fox and the grapes was perhaps founded on fact ? January 5.—Cleaning old jam-pots.—To prepare for all the preserving to be done this month, we must see that any jars which have had preserves in them before are40 Ja7i. APRICOT CREAM. PRESERVED APRICOTS thoroughly cleaned, and must be most careful in washing both jars and covers thoroughly in clean hot water. At Groote Poste in old days we used always after washing and drying the jars to powder them with a little flour of sulphur and wipe them clean. We never used soda nor soap to clean the jars, as soda has an injurious chemical action if used in anything connected with fruit. Hazel jars.— I find Hazel jars (an American kind) the best to use for preserves and easiest to clean, but one must make sure, if old jars are used again, that the elastic rings on them are sound and firm, and that the top screws on so that no air can penetrate and no leakage is possible. Apricot Cream.—This nice recipe for an apricot shape vms given me as a good way of using the dried apricots, “evaporated apricots,” they are called, which come, I think, from California and Australia. No doubt fresh apricots could be used the same way. The ingredients are— ^ lb. dried apricots. 2 ozs. lump sugar. 2 eggs. \ pint milk. I oz. gelatine. Soak the apricots 4 or 5 hours, then stew them with sufficient water to cover them,’and a little sugar. When quite done put them through a sieve and let them cool. Then make a custard with the 2 eggs and milk, add the gelatine, and mix all well together and put into a mould, set in a cold place, and serve with whipped cream. Preserving Apricots.—There are so many apricots this year that I shall preserve as many as possible—for this is the month for them—and plums also. I find it best to make a syrup of equal proportions of sugar and water—say 641 SUCCESSFUL PRESERVING-. STRAWBERRIES Ja7i. cups of sugar and 6 of water ; boil and strain it, and then take two-thirds of the syrup when boiling and put with it in a saucepan your fresh ripe fruit (well wiped and with stalks off), and boil it for a few minutes. Lately we have halved the apricots and removed the stones, which is better. Have your jars ready and heated, and proceed to fill care- fully, taking the apricots one by one from the boiling saucepan and transferring to the jar. The jars should stand on an enamelled plate on the stove by your saucepan (this is better than a china plate, which the heat might crack, for the syrup often boils in the jar as you are filling up). In the meantime the remaining third of the syrup, which you kept separate, is boiling in another saucepan, and as soon as you have filled each jar with apricots, leaving enough space above the top apricot for syrup to cover it, you fill up with the pure boiling syrup from this reserved saucepan. This is done for plums as well, because the skins of both apricots and plums are very acid, and if you used the syrup you had boiled them in to fill up the jars, it would not keep so well. Some people find apricots disagree with them when they first arrive in the Colony, so it is best for new-comers to be careful. Secret of Successful Preserving.— The secret of successful preserving is putting both the fruit and afterwards the syrup i7ito the jars at boiling heat^ and filling the jars to overflowing and screwing up tightly and immediately. January 8.—Preserving Strawberries.—I find that the strawberries 1 preserved last year did very well. I filled up the jars with ripe fruit and poured boiling syrup over them. The jars when filled were set in a saucepan which had a little water in it—and I let the syrup boil in the42 /a?i. PRESERVING- GRAPES AND PEARS Jars and kept filling up with fruit, as the strawberries being soft go down—then they were corked quickly, the jars wiped and put away ; they were looked over next morning, screwed up tightly, and labelled with name of fruit and date. The strawberries must be selected ones of even size, sound, and without stalks. Preserving Grapes.—One can preserve grapes—“Hanepots” are the best kind for it—in the same way, but you must prick each grape with a new steel pin before putting them into the jar ; fill up with boiling syrup and let it boil in the jars for a few minutes. Preserving Pears.—The early Saffron pear, very plentiful in both the Cape Colony and Orange River Colony, is most delicious for preserving, and retains its flavour very well. They should be peeled and cored, and, if too large to put in whole, may be cut into four. They should have a thinner syrup than strawberries, as they are very sweet in themselves, and also, being put into the boiling syrup and allowed to boil up once or twice, they absorb more sweetness than the strawberries (which are only popped into the jar of boiling syrup once for all); the pears must boil for about 8 or lo minutes till they begin to look clear ; fill the jars, as with other fruit, to overflowing, and cork quickly. Snake-bites.—A friend writes to ask whether people suffer from snake-bites as they do in India At the Cape snake- bites are very seldom heard of, and poisonous snakes are not common in the Western Province. I only once saw a “ puff adder ” while living on the farm at Groote Poste, and once a “ night snake ’’ (yellow and brown streaked)—these night adders are very poisonous. I remember an European doctor telling us to give the patient sulphuric acid, about43 SNAKE-DOCTOR. KITCHBN-G-ARDEN Jan. 20 drops in water every 2 or 3 hours, and then as much milk as they can drink, and some brandy. The best thing if any one is bitten is to tie a handkerchief tightly above the bitten part, and suck out the poison and apply ammonia, Sal volatile is also given in frequent doses. During the harvest season there were sometimes instances of the labourers being bitten ; perhaps they had put a few sheaves on the ground without noticing a small hole in the ground, and out of that the venomous creature would creep and bite. If discovered at once, and the poison sucked by a friend or snake-doctor, no ill effects were felt. We had an old Hottentot, Moos Julies, who was very good at it; and he had a brother who was believed in as a “snake- doctor,” sucking the poison of every snake he found. He wore a cap which was n^ver washed, and the victims of the snake-bite were allowed to boil it up a7id drink the extract as an antidote ; horrid, is it not}—but he always cured our patients by applying ammonia and giving sulphuric acid in water, and after that brandy and milk. I only once remember a man dying, but then he never said he was bitten until too late to do anything. He died a week afterwards. January 13.—Kitchen-garden and Vegetables.—Vegetables are plentiful this month—cucumbers, vegetable-marrows, beans, tomatoes, etc., and many and excellent are the recipes that all these names recall to mind. The other day in Mrs. Earle’s delightful book. Pot-pourri Jrom a Surrey Garden, I came across a recipe for a good cold luncheon-dish made of tomatoes with a portion of the middle scooped out and replaced with cold minced chicken and mayonnaise sauce, and decorated with aspic jelly. I tried this with the recipe for Mayonnaise Sauce in Hilda'sGREEN BEANS. CREAM SAUCE Jan. 44 Where is it, p. 218; and for Aspic, Hilda, p. 119. But instead of a quart of boiling water in latter recipe, I dissolved the gelatine in well-flavoured stock. It was pronounced excellent. Green Beans.—It is in January that green beans are plentiful, and we pick the young French beans every day, so that they do not become coarse or stringy. We then get a large earthenware jar and lay in it alternately a layer of freshly-gathered French beans, and on them a sprinkling of salt, and so on till the jar is filled, ending with plenty of salt at the top. If preserved like this they keep well; and when wanted we take them out, wash them well and lay them in water for a time to prevent their being too salt. (A friend tells me in England they do the same, using an earthen jar with a slate on top weighted with a stone or brick, and buried below the reach of frost.) The beans can be boiled, cut up or whole whichever is preferred, then drained, warmed up, and a lump of fresh butter and a squeeze of lemon added, and a little chopped parsley on the top ; or they can be served with white cream sauce made as follows— Cream Sauce.—Dessertspoonful of butter, ditto fine flour or maizena rubbed well together. Add 2 spoonfuls of boiling water or milk, a little salt; and when stirred quite smoothly over the fire for a few minutes add a tablespoonful or more of cream. Serve over any boiled vegetable.—My own 7'ecipe. “Waste not, want not.”—Green beans preserved this way have more flavour than tinned ones ; and besides, the principle of not wasting anything should never be lost sight of in housekeeping! They keep all through the winter. In the Karroo they cut up and sun-dry the green beans, and in that dry air they keep very well.45 VEGETABLES. GREEN CARNATIONS Jan. Planting Seedlings, Kitchen-garden.—But we must provide for the future in the kitchen-garden as well as use what is growing there now, and it is in January we always plant out little cauliflower, cabbage, and celery plants in moist places. In gardens where you are sure you can water you may also put in French beans—the bean itself—and you will have a crop in six weeks’ time. Mr. Gowie’s pamphlet, referred to, p. 38, gives directions for what to plant or sow each month and how to do it. January 15.—Flower-garden.—This week I have been busy budding roses and sowing carnations; any time this month suits them in a shady place. Carnations will bloom in a few months, especially the “ Marguerite ” carnation. I think I shall try another year to get some of those pots for carnations you see on the Continent, covered with a pretty green glaze which prevents the water evaporating so quickly—the pots are flat on one side and have a hole in that side, so that you can hang them on a nail against the wall rather high, and instead of tying up their heads stiffly as gardeners like to do, they are allowed to grow as they fancy, the stalks bending over with strong angular joints and the heads drooping. I am told the wild pinks grow on the cliffs at Cheddar, in England, hanging down in this fashion, so doubtless it is what that family of pla,nts likes best. I have found an odd little note, where copied from I cannot say; it is headed— “To make green carnations.” It says—“Take a layer and bed it in the heart of a cabbage pulled out of the ground, and when it has taken root, transplant it,”46 Jan. aRBBN ROSBS. BBGONIAS. PISH Whoever wrote it evidently thought much of altering the natural colour of flowers, for there follows “To obtain green roses. Plant the rose near a holly oak and take a small part of peel (bark) from both,” I suppose it is meant that the peeled parts should be tied together? And again—“Plant carrot or beet near rose, pass the branch through the carrot and cover with earth till branch has rooted, then transplant.” What the result of this last experiment would be is not explained. Begonias strike well from cuttings at this time of year, and all the different varieties make such pretty plants for the stoep or verandah, or for pots in the sitting- rooms. Watering. Where much water is given to plants, manure- water should be given twice a week. A little chicken manure, or guano, say as much as an old condensed milk- tin would hold, put into a large watering-can filled with water and left for a day or two, and then about a cupful given to every plant, will make them thrive (the plants should be well watered afterwards). Rosps, especially, are fond of plenty of “ good stuff.” Geraniums ought to be watered once a week with water in which a lump of rock ammonia has been dissolved, and begonias also like ammonia, and should be watered in a similar way. January i6.—I shall make a little list each month of what fish I find are most in season, for future reference, as so many people are fond of fish as a variety, and many of our Cape fish are excellent. Fish.—Fish is now fast becoming a source of income to the revenue, the Government having several steam trawlers which go out at Simons Bay and other placesJan. 47 CAPE PISH AND FISH-CARTS along the coast. The fish as they are caught are put into boxes, and when the trawler comes in, Kalk Bay is quite a sight. The fish are all laid out on the sands—and sold by the bunch to Malay fish-carts and private people who go down to market for themselves. These carts drive up to all the suburbs, and furiously blow their horn to announce their arrival, and kitchen-maids and cooks run for all they are worth to secure a good “ stockfish ” or “ elft,” but very often only the commoner kinds are to be had. Soles are very often caught by the trawler, but where they are sold I don’t know, the ordinary householder never is fortunate enough to buy any. There are a few shops in Wynberg on the main road that have been enterprising enough to retail tempting-looking fish. There is much to learn yet before we at the Cape can compete with other places. The best fish used all to be bought up by a company as soon as it was caught and sent up to Johannesberg, in a cool chamber, by train. Well, this month we have “silver fish,” one of the cheapest kinds ; it is very good for frying and makes excel- lent balls or rissoles (for a good recipe see Hilda's Where is it, pp. 69 and 206). Then there is “ stockfish,” one of the best Cape fish, which is also in season in the spring and summer months. “ Crayfish,” or “ kreeft,” is also plentiful all through the summer. We also call it “ Cape lobster.” Here is a good recipe for cooking it. Scalloped Kreeft.— 3 lbs. kreeft. \ pint milk. A little blade of mace boiled in the milk. 2 ozs. butter.Jan. SCALLOPED KREEPT. SHEEP’S HEARTS I tablespoonful fine flour, and same of chopped parsley. \ cup stale bread-crumbs. ^ teaspoonful or less of cayenne. I teaspoonful of salt. Let the milk boil, rub the flour and butter together and stir into the boiling milk, let it boil up nice and smooth for a sauce. Boil the lobster, open and cut the meat into dice-shaped pieces. Put a layer of the white sauce at the bottom of the baking-dish—then a layer of lobster seasoned with salt and cayenne, and a sprinkling of parsley and bread-crumbs, adding sauce and lobster alternately till the dish is filled ; the /as^ layer should be white sauce, sprinkled with bread-crumbs and a little melted butter on the top. Put in a quick oven to brown and get thoroughly warm. It can be replaced in the shell to be served—or left in the pie-dish, the outside of which should be garnished with frilled papers. (See Appendix, p. 273, as to how to kill lobsters mercifully.) January 20.—A Luncheon-dish.—I have been staying for a day or two in the country with some cousins, and for luncheon one day we had an excellent dish, of which S afterwards gave me the recipe (Mrs. Faure’s). When they kill a sheep on the farm one is glad to know of good recipes to use up every eatable part, and this was how she cooked sheep’s hearts. First they were well washed in hot water, and then dipped in cold to whiten them (just as one would do sheep’s brains). Then she made a well- mixed stuffing of a small cupful of bread-crumbs, and the same amount of chopped suet, one tablespoonful of finely- chopped onion, and flavoured all with thyme, sage, pepper49 ICED TARTS. PASTRY. SNOW PODDING Jan. and salt. With this she filled the cavities of the hearts and skewered them together. She then simmered them, in water just covering the hearts, till quite tender, for about an hour and a half, and then braised or fried them with a little butter. They were served cut into slices, and with a nice brown gravy to which she added a little tomato sauce. Iced fruit tarts.—We have to-day tried Mrs. Earle’s^ capital plan of making the crust of fruit tarts separately —and placing when cold on the pie-dish, to which it is fixed with raw white of egg. In baking the crust the shape is kept by filling the pie-dish with clean crumpled kitchen paper. The fruit is previously stewed and allowed to get cold, or, in the case of soft fruits like strawberries, the fruit is only cooked by pouring boiling syrup over it. A friend told me she had tried this way with strawberries iced, and filled in the space between fruit and crust with cream, whipped and iced, almost as much a surprise “ when the pie was opened ” as the “ four-and-twenty blackbirds ! ” Pastry.—The following recipe of my own is good—\ lb. fine flour, 2 ozs. lard, and a little salt, rubbed into the flour, then add half a cup of cold water, into which half a lemon has been squeezed, and beat it up with a large knife. Now put it on the pastry-board and roll out—not too thin —then spread lb. butter on the paste and fold it up, and roll out four or five times from you, folding up each time. January 21.—Snow Pudding.—How often one requires to have a really good pudding, which can be made the day before, and will be as good cold as hot. Here is one (Mrs. Eksteen’s) worth remembering—for it is best made over- night— ^ Pot-pourri from a Surrey Garden EJan. TO KEEP BUTTER COOL Half of a 6d. packet of gelatine. The whites of 3 eggs. A small teacupful of white sugar. The juice of 3 lemons. Lemon essence. Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak for half-an-hour. Then pour over it one pint of boiling water and stir till melted, now add the sugar and stir awhile till dissolved, and then add the juice of the lemons, and a little lemon essence. Stir all together and let it set. When quite cold beat this mixture with a large fork until it looks like snow. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the mixture. Dip a fancy porcelain mould into water and put the pudding into it—standing it in a cool place to harden. Make a rich custard of the yolks of the eggs to serve with it. (Readers of Hilda!s Where is it will remem- ber, p. 193, a similar recipe, but which, through some error, was described as being baked or boiled. I don’t know how such a mistake crept in.) January 26.—To keep butter cool.—One of the house- keeper’s trials in hot weather is how to keep butter cool and firm, for there is nothing so loathsome as “oily” butter. Here is a very simple plan which will prevent such a catastrophe, and which we always find very suc- cessful (I think I found it originally in a newspaper, and copied it, but have no record). Take a large new earthen- ware flower-pot and turn it upside down like a cover over the bowl which holds your butter, the latter should stand on a soup-plate or any shallow dish. Pour cold water in which a pinch of saltpetre, and a little salt also, has been dissolved, round the butter-bowl (this water may be as deep as the soup-plate will hold, but must not overflow51 A NEW USE FOR A FLOWER-POT Jan. into the bowl which holds the butter). Cover the flower- pot with a clean damp cloth and leave the edges of the cloth dipping into the water all round—this keeps the cloth damp—and the butter will remain firm and fresh. Stand the whole apparatus in a draught of air, or before an open window, but of .course in a shady place, and see there is ahvays water in the soup-plate, as it evaporates quickly.1l /. •y f 9 i 1 -t ’• '. • '-X , '7hK57 jfebniar^ February i.—Still hot.—In England they say, “There are three fine days in the year, and two of them are in February,” but at the Cape all the twenty-eight days of February are generally hot and fine, and fruit and vege- tables, as well as flowers, are as a rule very plentiful in all parts of the Western Province. Vegetables.—Potatoes, marrows, beans, cucumbers, par- snips and green mealies are in abundance. When cucum- bers turn yellow they may be utilized in cooking, and are very good if scooped out, stuffed with forcemeat, and curried, following recipe in Hilda's Where is it, p. 45. Tomatoes too, which are so universally popular, are usually very plentiful this month. Rice and tomatoes.—K writes that she saw rice served so nicely as a vegetable, in the following way— Some tomatoes were cooked and cut in half, and the soft inside taken out and mixed with the boiled rice so that it looked pink. Then the tomato skins were laid on the top of the rice, and filled up with forcemeat with a good deal of truffle in it. She says the result was excellent, looked ornamental and tasted very good. Potatoes.—It is curious to see how potatoes were treated when they were a new importation. Here is an extract from Gerarde, the herbalist, who wrote of them in 1597.58 Feb. INDIAN CORN SALAD. GREEN MEALIES “ Potatoes grow in India and other hotte regions, of which I planted divers roots (that I bought at the Exchange, London) in my garden, where they flourished until winter, at which time they perished and rotted.'’ He goes on to say, “ they were roasted in the ashes; and some when they be so roasted, infuse them and sop them in wine ; and others, to give them the greater grace in eating, do boil them with prunes and so eat them. And likewise others dresse them (being first roasted) with oil, vinegar and salt, and every man according to his taste and liking.” Indian corn salad, from an excellent recipe.—This is made of mealies, and of course where the recipe says to use a tin of Indian corn, we can use fresh mealies boiled. (A green pea salad can be made in the same way.) To I tin of Indian corn add 2 tablespoonfuls of mayon- naise sauce, J pint whipped cream, pepper and salt to taste, and sufficient aspic to set it. Line a mould with aspic jelly, and fill with the mixture. Turn out when cold. A salad of mixed vegetables done in this way would be very nice, especially if the carrots, turnips, etc. were stamped with a fancy vegetable cutter into pretty shapes. Green mealies can also be prepared by stripping off the leaves or hairy part; lay a few of the leaves at the bottom of the saucepan, then lay the mealies on them, sprinkle with salt and cover with more leaves. Fill the saucepan with cold water and boil for an hour. They are very popular too grilled, and sent up very hot on a napkin, to be eaten (bone fashion) with butter. You can make an excellent tomato sauce, which you will find useful in a great number of dishes, from the following recipe—59 TOMATO SAUCE. YELLOW PEACH PICKLE Feb. Tomato Sauce.—This recipe for tomato sauce is Miss Foster’s, and handed down to her by her grandmother, Mrs. Brown. Take 8 lbs tomatoes, wipe them and cut them up, and sprinkle | lb. kitchen salt, over them. Next day boil in an enamelled saucepan, adding— 8 large onions, sliced. 1 garlic. 18 red chillies. 2 ozs. ginger, just cracked. I tablespoonful of mixed allspice and mace. 4 bottles of vinegar (a “ bottle ” holds breakfast- cups). Boil all till quite soft, then strain through a colander and boil again a few minutes, lastly, bottle and cork. This sauce will keep a year. This month we also lay in a stock of tomato jam made from a recipe in p. 179 of Hildas Where is it, also grape jam and brandied grapes, for both which recipes are at p. 84 in the same book. February 3.—Yellow Peach Pickle.—The yellow or apricot peach is very plentiful the latter end of this month. If you live in any of the suburbs of Cape Town, the coloured women bring baskets of them to your door and sell them at \s. 6d. a hundred. This peach is also grown in the Transvaal and Orange River Colonies, and it makes an excellent pre- serve or jam. A recipe to preserve it in the Huguenot way, which the old Cape colonists knew so well, will be found at p. 178 in Htldcis Where ts it, and the following, which is not in that book, is also from an old Cape family recipe for pickling the yellow peach. First you peel and slice the fruit (say 50 peaches, which will make a good quantity) into four or five pieces each, and sprinkle a littleCOWSLIP WINE IN 1750 Feb. 60 salt on each layer of peaches as you put them in a bowl, where you leave them for a day or two. Then drain the sliced peaches and put them on a clean cloth to dry for a day or two—not more—in the sun. (Perhaps an oven would do if there were no sun ?) Next take 4 or 5 onions, cut them in slices, and fry a light-brown colour in olive oil; lastly, take 2 bottles of good vinegar and put into an enamelled saucepan with i dozen red chillies, a tablespoon- ful of cracked ginger, a few cloves of garlic, a large table- spoonful of turmeric, to give it a good yellow colour, and you may add 25 small onions if wished. Boil these in- gredients, stirring well. Pour the boiling vinegar, in which all the ingredients are, on the peaches, and let them boil up, put in a large jar and stir well. The next day bottle for use. Cowslip Wine.—Does not “Cowslip Wine” remind one of old-fashioned days, and sweet, homely recipes ? And those who have seen the fields full of cowslips in England in the spring, and the children making the lovely sweet- scented yellow “ cowslip balls,” will be specially interested in a quaint old recipe belonging to Miss Elliott, Holyhead, which is marked, “ March y" 29th, 1750.” It is called “ A Receipt to Make Cowslipt Wine, by Miss Wooliston,” and I have carefully copied the peculiar phonetical spell- ing, and the many abbreviations, in which it is written. “ Cowslipt,” you see, and that name, I think, is more likely to be the original meaning, for I suppose the cattle did not eat them ? “ Take a gallon of Watter, four p^* of Shug’r, two quarts of Cowslipts. Cut y*" tops of (off), only for your use be sure you don’t slip ’em. Dry ’em well in the sun to Boyll ’em all together for three quarter of an hour, sciming61 CUCUMBER PICKLE Feb, (skimming) ’em weil the whille, then take ’em of (off) the fire, w" quite couio (when quite cold), put a spoonfull of Barne to it with two Lemmons sliced Rine and all. Let It work for a week stirring it well once a day, then Bkrell It up close for a month, to Bottle it off putting in 3 or 4 cioves and 3 or 4 Lumps of Shug’r in each Bottle w* 3 or 4 Bits of Lemon pill (peel) in.” The liberal expenditure of capital letters is delightful. No doubt this excellent “Cowslipt Wine” was greatly appreciated by Miss Wooliston’s friends. Cucumber Pickle.—But though we have no English cowslipts at the Cape, we have cucumbers, so this recipe from the same source we can all try, for which the same clever hands that made such good pickles and home- made wines a century and a half ago have written the recipe in the same quaint English. The date is probably the same a hundred and fifty years ago. “ Take your largest Cowcumbers and cut them through in tow (the ‘o’ and the‘w’have changed places for fun !), then take out all the meat and seeds and make them very clean with a cloath, then fill them up with mustard seed grosly pund coarsely pounded), ading tow cloves of garlick and 2 or 3 cloves and a little peper grosly pund ; then ty them about very hard with a thrid j then make very strong pickle as you doe for other Cowcumbers with dill and spice, boyle it well and pouer it scalding hott upon them and close them well. You must give the pickle a boyling every day and soe pouer it very hott upon them, you must doe this for a fortnight, and as the pickle consumes you must add some more to it, let it be as strong as an ege may swim on it. Then close it up well and keep it for your use.”Feb. WATER-MELON PRESERVES 62 There are no instructions as to what is to be done with the “ thrid ” eventually. February 4.—Water-melon jam should be made now (see Hilda, p. 118), and I have also a recipe for ice-cream water-melon preserve, as follows— “ Ice-cream Water-melon ” Rind Preserve.—Take the rind and scoop away most of the red part, but leave a little of this red part on, peel away thinly the hard green outer part, then cut the rind into squares or any fancy shapes. Lay the squares in a bowl and cover with water, into which a small spoonful of lime and a little salt has been stirred, leaving them in it 12 or 14 hours. Then wash them clean and drain. Rub a very clean copper or enamelled preserving-pot slightly with sweet (Lucca) oil, put the water-melon rind squares, with their weight in sugar, in it and add a few cups of water. (If you have 4 lbs. peel, 4 lbs. sugar, add 4 cups of water.) Let it come to the boil, and then set it on a cooler part of the range and let it simmer for 3 or 4 hours with the lid closed. If not convenient to boil in one day, it may be set aside and boiled again next day till done. A good test of when it is sufficiently done, is to put a little of the syrup in a flat plate ; if the syrup is oily and thick enough, little ripples come on the top as it cools. It ought not to sugar, which it will do if boiled too quickly. Bottle it boiling hot, first warming the bottles to prevent cracking, and cork quickly. This makes a nice dessert dish. Water-melon Preserve with, dry Sugar.—Prick and lay in lime for a night like the peel for any other mode of making the same preserve. Rinse in fresh water in the morning,63 ATJAAR. LEMBTJES SAUCE AND COMPYT Feb. parboil, putting the peel into water that is boiling; drain but don’t squeeze. ’ To 5 lbs. sugar add 6 lbs. fruit, while it is still hot and let It simmer for about half-an-hour after the sugar is melted. Let it stand for a night, and preserve next day If the syrup seems too little, add a little more syrup made by mixing equal parts of sugar and water, then preserve till the-fruit IS clear and the syrup nice and thick. To know when done, test it as you did the last recipe. Red Cabbage Pickle (Atjaar).—Cut the cabbage into strips, removing the hard stems, sprinkle salt over it and leave until the next day, then drain and lay open on a cloth to dry. ^ When all the moisture has disappeared, put It into sufficient boiling vinegar and allow to boil for a minute or two, adding a few small pickle onions, some red chillies, and some allspice. When cold, bottle and cork well. Limes Sauce (Lemetjes Sauce).—Take 50 limes, cut a cross at one end, but not deeply enough to separate them into pieces. Put on them \ lb. of salt in a deep jar or bowl, pour on them 6 bottles of good colourless vinegar, let them stand a month, stirring them occasionally with a wooden spoon. When settled, bottle the clear liquor, and the thick liquor when filtered ; the limes can be used for flavour- ing soups, pie-meat, or any savoury dish. The best vinegar for the above is acetic acid, which makes common-strength vinegar by mixing one part to six parts of water. To Preserve Limes (Lemetjes Comfyt).—Pare the limes very thinly and lay them in fresh cold water for three days. Then take them out of the water, cut a cross at one end of each hme, put them in a preserving pan with cold water, and set them to boil until they can be easily pierced64 Feb. MELON AND GREEN PIG PRESERVES with a thin straw. Take them out of the pan, and put immediately into cold water. After a few minutes take them out and drain well. In the meanwhile make a clear syrup by taking dry white sugar (of the same weight as the fruit) and water in equal proportions, set it to boil, and when clear strain through muslin; allow it to get cold, then put it in the pan again with the fruit boiling gently, until quite tender and transparent. Should the fruit be quite done before the syrup is thick enough, remove the same, boil the syrup alone until of the proper consistency, after which the fruit can be added again and allowed to simmer for a little while. Boiling it too fast or too long will harden the fruit and give it a brown colour, instead of green. For Preserving Water-melon Peel, Spanspek Peel, or Green Figs with dry Sugar.—Lay the same in very weak lime-water (about a dessertspoonful to 5 or 6 quarts of water) for one night, next day wash and set to boil in a preserving-pan with cold water (for figs add only a little salt to the water). When done, so that a thin reed may easily pierce them, take out of the water and put immediately into cold water for about 20 minutes. Then take out and drain well, put them in the pan again and strew dry white sugar of the same weight as fruit over each layer, adding just enough water to moisten the sugar—then cover the pan and set on a slow fire, shaking the pan occasionally until the sugar is dissolved, let it boil steadily until nearly done, keeping it covered all the time. Remove from the fire, and the next day let it boil again until the syrup is quite thick, when it will crystallize. The figs should be thinly pared and a cross cut at the top, and the melon peel must be pricked with a silver fork before laying in the lime-water. The Market.—Melons of all kinds are sold in the markets,Feh. 65 F THE MARKET. GEELBEK. SMOORPISH where the great heaps of them side by side with scarlet chillies, red and yellow tomatoes, and other bright-coloured fruit and vegetables, make masses of colour which would delight an artist, and the subject is still better for sketching when the stall is presided over by Malays in their bright- coloured dresses. How many subjects an artist would find to paint in our markets ! You will see an old Malay with one of the broad hats like a little thatched roof on his head, and wearing the Malay pattens instead of boots, with perhaps a turkey under each arm, or with a bamboo over his shoulder, from which hangs a basket at each end, one filled with geese and the other with apricots ; and so on, a never-ending series of pictures; the Malay gala dresses are always of beautiful colours. February 5.—Fish.—Cape Salmon.—The fish in season now are very much the same as in January. But we have a great addition to our list this month, the latter part of February, in the Geelbek, commonly called Cape salmon. This fish, which is caught with a hook, often attains to 40 or 50 lbs. weight. It is a silvery green colour with a yellowish tinge, and the lips and inside of the mouth are a bright orange tint. When half grown it is excellent boiled or fried, or if full grown, part of it can be salted and sun-dried (by being cut into pieces the size of one’s hand and hung in the sun), and makes good fish-pie, “smoorfish,” “engelegte,” or pickled fish (see Hilda's Where is it, pp. 70-71). Smoorfish.—I am often asked for the recipe for smoor- fish, so I will write down once for all the way we ourselves do it. The dried fish is first parboiled and then, with twoFeb. “PENANG.” KREBPT CURRY 66 forks, broken up into pieces, carefully taking out all bones. Meantime I have cut up an onion and fried it a light- brown in dripping in a flat pot, and have sliced up a few potatoes, boiled or raw, and a red chilli (or if that is too hot a little pinch of cayenne); a cupful of any stock (this may be mutton or made of fish-bones) is added to the mixture, then the pieces of fish are put in and all simmered for an hour. Smoorfish, an old Malay speciality, is an excellent dish for luncheon. Tomatoes, if in season, may be added to it. “Penang,” or Fish Curry.—Another nice way of cooking fish is what we call penang, a species of fish curry, which takes about half-an-hour to do. First prepare some browned onions as you would for chicken curry (cutting the onions into shreds and smooring or browning them), and add curry-powder and a little pinch of sugar, some common vinegar, and some stock (say a tablespoonful of vinegar to one large onion and a large tablespoonful of curry-powder), make a paste of it, and put fillets of fish into it and fry. Another Penang Recipe, Mrs. Cloete’s, says— Take i lb. raw fish and cut it in fillets an inch or two square ; of the fish-bones make about a pint of stock and strain, add one large onion cut in slices and browned in dripping or butter, one tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon, one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, large table- spoonful of curry-powder. Mix all this well in the stock made of the fish-bones, and let it come to a boil, now put the fillets of raw fish into this paste and let it cook for ten minutes, then serve nice and hot with boiled rice. Crayfish or Kreeft Curry.—But if you want to curry cray- fish in a similar way, omit the sugar, and in place of stock67 VEGETABLES AND SPACE TO GROW THEM Feb. add a small piece of butter and the meat of the crayfish, and serve, when finished, with rice. ^ Make a mixture of curry-paste by browning an onion cut in slices, a cup of stock, one tablespoonful of curry- powder, one teaspoonful of salt, some lemon-juice or vinegar. Mix all well and let it boil up. Cut up the crayfish, the tail part into little squares, the leg, etc., and all the juicy parts from the inside of the body.’ Add all this to the boiling curry sauce, leave it for fifteen minutes. Serve with rice. The crayfish, or Cape lobster, being in season in summer, is very cheap. (See Appendix for way to kill mercifully.) ’ Febniary 6.—Parsley.—Gardening again to-day, as this is such an important seed-sowing time. Parsley I am always sowing a little of in really good soil, and its pretty leaves make quite an ornamental border to the kitchen-garden. Broccoli.—I sowed broccoli too to-day, and Brussels sprouts and cabbage, all such useful vegetables, and all grown in the same way. This is the month too for sowing any of the following which may be wanted—knol kohl, lucerne, mangold, radish, spinach, peas, sorrel, turnips, swedes, and all sorts of herbs. The ground lor all these vegetable seeds has of course been deeply dug and well manured at the proper time, and will have to be kept moist, in dry weather especially. I think people in gardening are generally apt to overlook the amount of space each plant will require when gvozvn.^ and so they crowd in seeds, making it impossible for the little plants to have enough food of earth and air to live upon. Lucerne. All dairy farmers find lucerne most useful, but68 Feb. A PRETTY KITCHEN-GARDEN. BLATJANG it requires a strong, deep soil, and where one can easily irrigate it in dry weather. A pretty Kitchen-garden.—How few think also of the possibilities of arranging a kitchen-garden ornamentally! But what pretty effects might be had with such a beautiful variety of foliage and fruit as, say, parsley, the crimson leaves of beet, some of the handsome kinds of curly kales—almost like miniature palm trees in their growth—carrot leaves which change to such beautiful tints, the blue flowers of borage, hedges of scarlet-runners, great clambering plants of cucumber and vegetable- marrow or melon, clusters of scarlet or yellow tomatoes— one could make an endless variety of beautiful groups. February y.—To-day I have been looking through my old recipe-books to see how I could best use the red chillies while they are so plentiful, and I find there is a good recipe, which will keep well, for blatjang (the Malay condiment)—this keeping kind is my own invention. All Cape housekeepers know how useful blatjang is to add to fish sauce, etc. My recipe for it is as follows— Blatjang.—Soak i lb. dried apricots over-night in vinegar. Take ^ lb. fresh red chillies, and (after removing the seeds) pass them twice through the mincing-machine. Take 12 large flat white onions, and after taking off the outer skins, bake them in the oven in an enamelled dish, and then pass them also through the mincing-machine. Now mash or mince up the apricots you soaked over-night in vinegar. Besides the apricots, chillies, and onions, you will want— 1 lb. brown sugar, lb. salt. 2 tablespoonfuls coriander seeds. I large garlic.Feb. 69 ROSES. SHEEP’S BRAINS lb. Valentia almonds minced. 2 bottles of vinegar (Crosse and Blackwell’s, or very good Cape vinegar). Boil all these ingredients together till nice and clear, stirring all the time, and when done put in small jars and cork well. I shall use this recipe to turn to account the abundance of red chillies this month. Blatjang made this way will keep for a year. I have sent it to England several times, and have had orders for another supply from those who prefer it to chutney. If fresh chillies are not available use \ lb. cayenne pepper instead, but it will not have such a nice red colour. All the ingredients should be passed through a very fine mincing-machine. February 8.—Watering.—Another busy day, this time in the flower-garden, where, as the weather has been dry, I have had a good deal of watering to do. Roses.—In the hot summer months I find that a little top-dressing of rotted straw, with a sprinkling of fowl manure, is splendid for roses; watering liberally every evening. The roses we budded in January must be kept very moist, and the buds carefully supported with a stake in case of strong wind ; and old wood cut back. Febrtiary 9.—Sheep’s brains.—Poor J has been very ill, and her sister says it has been most difficult to find any- thing that she would fancy. I wanted to prepare some- thing to tempt her, and as she was ordered only to have something quite light, I thought first of getting some sweetbreads, but they were very expensive, and so it oc- curred to me to try a recipe I have for cooking sheep's brains,70 Fe(K INVALID COOKERY. LEARN TO COOK! which are as light as sweetbreads and far less expensive, for I found by ordering the day before I could get six or eight brains for a shilling. They should first be washed in cold water, and then boiling water is poured over them which whitens them. They are then dipped into egg and bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt and fried for a few minutes in boiling dripping or butter till they are a light-brown. This dish proved a great success, for it was so delicate and tempting, and J could not at first guess of what it was made. Perhaps others may like to try it for an invalid. ^ Why is it that young women, when their means are limited, and especially those who intend to live in one of our colonies where trained servants are difficult to get, why is it that they do not first really take some trouble to learn something of cooking ? It would not only save expense, but, as in this case of J , an invalid will often fancy a little dish made on purpose; indeed careful and tempting cooking of the very simple things an invalid is allowed, often does as much to ensure their recovery as the skill of the nurse and the doctor. Learn to Cook.—And in ordinary everyday life how much of the comfort of the household depends on whoever caters for the family, giving knowledgahle thought to what they are to live upon—to secure wholesomeness and variety as well as economy. Even those who can afford to have the actual work of the kitchen done by paid hands will find that money will go much further, and results be more satisfactory, if the head of the house knows how things should be done, and can direct or criticize the work from personal knowledge. I would say to every girl, “ Learn as much as you can personally from the most experiencedFeb. USE OP TRAINING IN COOKERY 71 cook you know, of the fundamental principles of cooking. Get her to show you how to bake, to boil, to fry, to stew, and (if she will allow it) get her to let you do it yourself., while she looks on and directs. Be her kitchen-maid when- ever she will permit it, and learn how to clean the cooking- pots, to prepare the vegetables, and evc7'y detail of the work of the kitchen. When you are master of that, cookery- books will help you with the rest, for you will know what they mean and have a key to their language. But it will be a very different thing if you have to worry out the proper methods for yourself, and amateurs in the kitchen, as elsewhere, always give themselves unnecessary trouble.” The same of course is true of housemaid’s work,i and no time given to mastering such things is thrown away by a girl, whether born in South Africa or coming out as a colonist,^ who may one day have to direct others, or, as in hundreds of cases where means are limited, set to and do the things herself. Such knowledge will help the household along more smoothly and happily than the mistress being able to read French novels. The meaning of the old English word ^ Good articles on Colonial training are to be found in the Woman's Agricidtural Times (published by Hannaford, London) for August, September, and October, 1901, describing the course followed at Lady Warwick’s Hostel, Reading. The paper is full of interest on all ^ agricultural subjects, and well worth taking in, being only \d. a month. The Agricultural fournal published out here would also be found very useful. 2 Very good leaflets. Words for Wives of Soldiers, by Mrs. Adelaide Ross, and Leaton Colo?iial Training Hojue, by Miss Vernon, are sold at the Imperial Institute, London, by the British Women’s Emigration Association.72 BATTER. APPLE-RINGS. GINGERBREAD “lady" is said to have been “loaf-giver"—implying a person as practical as Solomon’s beautiful description (Prov. xxxi.) of the^ “ virtuous woman" whose “ price is far above rubies,’’^ and the heart of whose husband “ doth safely trust in her,” and of whom it is specially said, “ She looketh well to the ways of her own household, and eateth not the oread of idleness.” February I5.-Batter for beef fritters.-To-day some cold beef had to be used up for luncheon, so I used the recipe at p. 76 in Hilda's Where is it, for fritters, but the batter I made differently, and as follows, from Mrs. Higham’s recipe Put I lb. flour in a bowl, and in the middle of it drop 2 dessertspoonfuls of Lucca oil, stir it a little and add I pint of tepid water (make this of two-thirds cold water and one-third boiling). Stir this smoothly into the batter, beating well; a little salt is also required. Last of all add to it the stiffly-whipped whites of two eggs. This batter is lovely for cold minced beef fritters, and is also very nice for apple-rings. Apple-rings should be first washed and soaked for a minute in hot water, and then dipped into the batter, and fried in boiling ox-marrow (which you get in tins those I use are marked The Armour Canning Co., Superior Ox- Marrow, Chicago, U.S.A.), and which is, by the way, also excellent for short crust and scones. I prefer it infinitely to lard. February 18.—Gingerbread with brown flour.—I have been given some interesting notes from the Hon. Mrs. Cecil Parker’s manuscript recipe-book. Gingerbread made with brown flour instead of white is excellent—more crumbly and “ more interestine.” Parkyn.—Gingerbread made with oatmeal is, Mrs. Parker73 “TALKE O’ THE HILL” GINGERBREAD Feb. says, practically “ Parkyn,” for which the following pro- portions are good— 2 lbs. sifted oatmeal. 2 lbs. treacle, lb. coarse brown sugar, lb. butter rubbed in a little brandy. Ground ginger to flavour. This should be baked in a very slow oven, and is good in flat cakes the size of a saucer or bigger. Fruit Gingerbread.—Another variety of gingerbread mentioned in the same collection has currants, raisins and candied peel added to the usual ingredients, but I should think that would rather destroy the characteristics of gingerbread ? “ Talke o’ the Hill” Gingerbread Loaf.—Another good form of gingerbread is from a recipe of Mrs. MacHutchin’s, whose husband is Vicar of “ Talke o’ the Hill,” in Staf- fordshire—a curious name for a village. I am told Talke ” means a hill or high ground, and has nothing to do with conversation ! Anyway, here is the recipe. Put I lb. butter into i lb. flour, add ^ lb. coarse sugar, ^ oz. baking-powder, i oz. caraway seeds, 2 ozs. ground ginger, 2 ozs. candied peel, cut small, I lb. raisins, chopped, 2 eggs, a wineglassful of sherry, i lb. treacle (which generally requires warming). Mix all well together and bake three hours in a slow oven. Allow plenty of room in the tin for rising, and if the cake begins to brown too soon, cover it with paper. It strikes me that this must be of the nature of “ fruit gingerbread,” on which I have been casting doubts ! But the result of this recipe is, I am told, delicious.74 Feb. CHARTREUSE OP CABBAGE. TRACKERS Tomato and Chicken Cream.—Mrs. Parker describes this pretty (cold) luncheon-dish of tomatoes passed through a sieve, with stock added, and allowed to jelly in a shallow dish, then cut in rounds and placed in a circle alternately with similar sized rounds of chicken or rabbit cream, the latter seasoned with a little red pepper, and with truffles sprinkled on them. Chartreuse of Cabbage.—Another dish recommended by the same lady may be described as follows—a cabbage broken in shreds and boiled or steamed in a plain basin mould with 2 eggs and some stock seasoned to taste, and when cold turned out as a shape. I think both these would be worth trying, as well as the following way of using an old hen— Hen Jelly.—Stew an old hen very slowly and until the meat will come off the bones with a fork. Cut up a hard- boiled egg and arrange with the meat in a round basin brawn fashion, pour in the liquid stock and turn out when cold. Hashed Hare.—Hashed hare is best with the bones taken out. February 21.—I see that in my description of Groote Poste I have omitted to mention how very clever the old Hottentots were about tracking out any lost cattle or sheep—on soft ground they could easily trace the foot- marks, but it is marvellous how clever they are to “ spoor ” out the missing sheep or animal on the hard hill-side as welk Their powers of observation are wonderful, and their eyesight is keener than that of the European, and they have so much patience ; they notice where the animal has nibbled a bush, or broken a twig, and follow on till the missing sheep is found ! I remember a man stealingFeb. 75 ROAST HARE AND ITS GRAVY grapes out of our vineyard on the hard hill-side, and no one ever dreamt the culprit could be traced, as the ground outside the fence was as hard as could be, but “Old Moos” managed to trace him, and he was caught. Hottentots make splendid herdsmen, and are de- voted to their sheep and lambs, but I am sorry to say the genuine Hottentot will soon be a thing of the past. ^ February 23. Roast Hare, German fashion.—I remember some years ago seeing a recipe in a newspaper cutting which ^ was said to be German. I made some notes from it to show in what it differed from ordinarv “Roast Hare.” First all the under-skins were taken off (there are several, very tender and fine, as well as the thick outer one), the head and front-legs were cut off, and the back well larded with fat bacon. The hare was then placed in a deep tin pan with i pint cream (or half milk, half cream), some lumps of butter on the back, and a few bay leaves, and baked at least hours, well basted with the cream and gravy from the meat. Well-buttered paper wrapped round prevents the outside of the meat getting hard. When cooked the hare is cut into smallish pieces, and sent up very hot with the gravy over it. The recipe ended by saying, “ If you like to take some trouble you can make very good rich gravy from the pieces you cut away and his head, by stewing them well all the time he is cooking, in a little water, or soup stock if you have it; add a glass of port wine to the gravy, or even a few spoonfuls of currant jelly, and you have a dish fit for the GermanFeb. RECOMMENDS HARE CREAM Emperor himself—who by no means despises cookery, and occasionally inspects his own kitchens.” This dish would certainly look better than the cat-like creature one often sees appear at table. Hare Cream.—An excellent recipe for hare cream is given in a book called Dainty Dishes./n>aucb March i.—Autumn.—This is our first autumn month, and IS often very hot and the most trying of the whole year. Fish.—The best fish this month are “ geelbek,” or Cape salmon, and “ Cabeljon ” (Marinade, p. io6), both good for boiling or frying. March 3.—Storing Fruit.—Early in March all our winter fruit, such as pears, apples, etc., are picked and stored. At Constants and Groote Poste in old days the pears and apples were laid carefully on the boards. In houses that have thatched roofs it is a good plan to stick the stalks of the quinces, which are purposely picked with a stalk attached, into the under-side of the thatch. Grapes, too, with a piece of woody stem stuck in the thatch or care- fully suspended will keep for nearly a month. Fruit that is stored should be often looked over, and any that has become bad picked out and thrown away, or buried, as it spoils the rest. Chestnuts and Chestnut Pudding.—Chestnuts come into season now, and they grow well in the Cape Peninsula at Stellenbosch, Paarl, Worcester and other districts. ^ Here is a nice French recipe for a chestnut pudding, given me by Mrs. Hiddingh. Boil 50 large chestnuts, peel and rub them through a sieve; put them in a saucepanMarch CHESTNUT SNOW. CHIPOLATA 82 with I pint of cream, or milk, and 4 ozs. butter ; stir over the fire till the mixture thickens. As soon as it ceases to adhere to the bottom of the pot, take it off and let it cool. Beat up separately the yolks and whites of 4 eggs and mix them with the chestnuts when latter are cold ; flavour with teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and add a good pinch of salt. When all is thoroughly mixed, butter a plain mould, put in the mixture, and steam for two hours. Serve hot with melted apricot-jam sauce. Here is another way of cooking chestnuts, a very nice sweet dish for Sunday supper, and for which I am indebted to Miss O’Connor Eccles, a well-known authority on cooking. Chestnut Snow.—Boil ^ pound of chestnuts, rub them through a sieve, mix with them 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, and flavour with ^ teaspoonful of vanilla. Line a glass dish with strawberry jam, cover this over with the chestnut, sprinkle over them a few brown bread-crumbs, and put whipped cream on top of all. (The cream should be slightly sweetened and flavoured with vanilla.) Chipolata.—When chestnuts are ripe, a good way to use them is in a “ chipolata,” from Miss Adeane’s recipe, as follows :—Take i pound of chestnuts (skinned) and put them into a stew-pan with a little consomme, sift a little castor sugar over them, and braize for 2 hours. Then cut sausages in pieces the size of a walnut. Also cut truffles, tongue, ham or lean bacon in squares and mix together. Dish all in separate groups in an entree-dish, chestnuts at one end, ham squares at the other, sausages along one side, and use mushrooms the other. Vegetables.—Cauliflowers begin to come in, in March, and good potatoes may be had, and it is well to lay in83 AUTUMN VEGETABLES. PALESTINE SOUP March - a store for winter—and onTisns, too, if you have a loft for storing. Store potatoes in a very dry store-room, with a little lime sprinkled over it; onions are best kept tied in bunches and hung up or laid out in a dry room. There is a tradition, but how far it may be true I cannot say, that the strings of onions hanging up in a kitchen, as one sees in o?d farmhouses, act as a preservative against epidemics; but whether it is supposed to make the onions themselves unwholesome, I cannot say! A turnip boiled with onions makes them milder. Parsnips, Jerusalem artichokes, beans, and sweet potatoes we may also depend upon having in March. Mrs. Earle (in Pot-pourri from a Surrey Garden) gives a few useful hints on cooking Jerusalem artichokes—she says they can be made into pureedV^o. turnips, or fried in thin slices like potato chips. The best way of all, she considers, is au gratin like macaroni cheese, only with more sauce. Two Recipes for Palestine Soup.—Miss Le Sueur once gave me two recipes, both excellent, for “ Palestine soup ” of Jerusalem artichokes, i. Wash and pare the arti- chokes and put them in a stew-pan with a small lump of butter, 2 strips of bacon, 2 bay leaves. Let them steam or simmer for 10 minutes, pour on cold water to cover the artichokes, and then boil them till soft and pass through a kitchen strainer or sieve. Add milk enough to the liquor in which they were boiled to make the puree like gruel. Heat this again, and when ready to serve add a few spoonfuls of cream. 2. The other recipe says, instead of cold water being put on the artichokes to boil them, use stock made of the knuckle-QUINCES AND PEARS March 84 end of a leg of mutton, or of veal, or any white meat, and when boiled and strained add a teacupful of milk as you would for potato soup. Q,uinces—Quinces are now plentiful, and a most useful fruit, much sweeter at the Cape than in England. Most of the old-fashioned large gardens in the Cape Colony near Cape Town had hedges of quinces round them. There are recipes for quince jam and jelly fin Hildds Where is it, p. 179; and for a quince “ sambal ” [i.e. green chutney— a Malay recipe), p. I99 book. ^ auince Jam.—But another old-fashioned recipe from an Eno-lish book is worth recording;—First boil your quinces for"half-an-hour, take off the outer thin skin (as you do tomato), cut the quinces in half, remove the core, and pulp them ; to every pound weight of quince pulp add h pint or cupful of the water in which the quinces have been boiled. Peel carefully and cut up some Blenheim apples, and take i lb. sliced apple to every pound of quince pulp, and i lb. sugar to every pound of fruit. Put iiito a copper or enamelled preserving-pot, rubbing this first slightly with Lucca oil; boil for 3 hours, stirring carefully till done. , March 8.—Stewed auince and Pear.—K tells me that when they have stewed pears for dinner they always put slices of stewed quince between each stewed half-pear, in the circle of fruit, and that this is a great improvement. I should think a most excellent cold tart could be made of these two fruits with a good syrup, and the crust cooked separately as described elsewhere. Baked Pears.-K also told me that they often have pears plainly baked, just as apples are done, and that they Le excellent so. We used to bake Calabash pears at home.85 PEARS IN JELLY AND STEWED March Pears in Jelly.—Another pretty variety of stewed pears she mentioned was for each half-pear to be laid in an ordinary saucer with the round side of the half-pear down- wards ; the saucer is filled with pink jelly to the brim, and turns out when cold in a pretty shape with pear right side up, and is served with whipped cream. Colour of Stewed Pears.—To make stewed pears a really good red without cocliineal, one cook says she’does them in a pot with a lid, which she keeps on, and cooks them slowly a long time. Another, an old Irishwoman, says, when she knows in time she leaves them in the oven to stew when she goes to bed, and they will be a good colour by the morning. Pish in White Sauce.—Here is a recipe (Miss Le Sueur’s) which is worth remembering for cooking fish in white sauce. Make a nice white sauce as follows;—Rub an ounce or two of butter in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, add to it a few spoonfuls of stock made of the fish-bones boiled with an onion till the latter is nice and tender ; and then take half a cup of milk and pour it over. Flavour with lemon, cayenne, chopped par,sley, pepper and salt. Cut up the fish, which must be raw, into neat pieces sufficient for a helping, and let it simmer in this mixture for a few minutes. March 12.—As to-morrow is little V ’s birthday, we have asked her and the other little cousins to tea, and have been making some cakes for the occasion. The children always specially enjoy this party if Easter happens to fall about the same time, as then, in German fashion, eggs stained with saffron for yellow, coffee for brown, and cochineal for red. Miss Marie de Bunsen’s way, are hiddenTHE BIRTHDAY MENU March 86 in the garden for them to find—a great excitement. For to-morrow one dish is to be— Vienna Biscuits (Miss May Van Renen’s recipe, given I her by Mrs. Drummond Hay), made as follows:—A pinch of salt, I oz. castor sugar, and 2 ozs. butter are rubbed into I lb. flour; you then beat up the yolk of an egg and I tablespoonful of milk together, and add to the flour. Roll out this paste very thinly and stamp it out in rounds with a small tumbler, and out of half the number cut a smaller round from the centre; bake all on buttered paper on tins in a moderate oven a quarter of an hour. Now chop up or grate 2 or 3 ozs. plain chocolate, put it in a small saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of water and let it boil 4 5 niinutes. Then stir in 4 or 5 ozs. icing sugar. Let it just come to the boil, and spread quickly on the biscuits—the whole ones—and then press on to them those which have the centres cut out, filling up the cavity in the centre with crystallized cherries or other candied “ comfyt,” or with cream whipped very stiffly. As little V is very fond of “hundreds and thousands,” we have used cream for the filling, and sprinkled the “ hundreds and thousands ” over it. Birthday-cake.—The birthday-cake itself will be from Mrs. Andrew’s recipe in Hildas Where is it, p. 22, and iced and ornamented as described there also, p. 105, as the children will expect the cake to be decorated with name and date. Birthday Menu.—“Brawn” Biscuits.—The menu will of course include plenty of brown and white bread-and-butter, and we shall have some jam sandwiches; a large ginger- bread cake made with brown flour as previously described,March LITTLE CHOCOLATE CAKES 87 and a couple of sponge-cakes from Mrs. Van der Byl’s recipe in Hildas Where is it, p. 28. To make a variety, one of these two sponge-cakes will be flavoured with orange and then coated with a layer of marmalade, as described in the same book, p. 105, and the icing over it also flavoured with orange, and various biscuits and little cakes, among them some “Brawn” biscuits (named after a place), which are very quickly made as follows :—Put a handful of flour on a board and mix with it half a teacupful of cream. Roll out thin and cut with tumbler or wineglass. Bake in a very hot oven for a few minutes. As the children are very fond of chocolate, we shall make besides the Vienna biscuits one or other of the two following recipes for chocolate cakes, both of which are good— Little Chocolate Cakes (Mrs. Drummond Hay’s recipe).— Beat 6 ozs. butter to a cream, add the same weight of fine white sugar and 2 well-beaten eggs, ^ lb. fine flour, ^ lb. grated chocolate, and a pinch of baking-powder, mix all well together with some vanilla flavouring. Butter about I dozen little tins and pour in the mixture. Bake in a quick oven and turn them out carefully, when done, on a sieve to cool. Chocolate Cakes, No. 2.—Another recipe (Miss May Van Renen’s). Beat ^ lb. butter to a cream, add I lb. fine white sugar, 3 well-beaten eggs, ^ lb. grated chocolate, 3 ozs. fine flour, 2 ozs, blanched and pounded almond.s, and a pinch of baking-powder, about a salt-spoonful. Butter your little tins and line with buttered paper. Pour a little of the mixture into each tin, bake in a quick oven. Turn them out when the reed or straw you stick in to see if it is done comes out dry, and when cold, ice them with vanillaMarch 88 HONEYCOMB GINGERBREAD icing, as described in Hilda's Where is it, pp. 105-6, or as follows— Vanilla Icing.—Take i large cupful of white sugar, and put it in a clean enamelled saucepan, with just as much boiling water as will melt the sugar, adding this little by little. Stir over the fire and let it boil till it threads off the spoon. Beat the white of i egg, flavour when well whisked with half a teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon, and put into a round basin, over which pour the boiling syrup— beating all the time. When nearly cold, spread this over the tops of the little cakes. Anothei thing the children are very fond of, and which is always an item of the birthday menu, is transparent honey- comb gingerbread. Honeycomb Gingerbread.—[This is from a manuscript lecipe-book of i835> which belonged to Mrs. Longley, wife of the Archbishop of Canterbury of that name, and from which a friend has copied and sent me some very good recipes.] Ingredients— lb. flour. ^ lb. treacle. 6 ozs. moist sugar. 4 oz.s. fresh butter. Ginger to taste. Boil the treacle, butter and sugar together 5 minutes, and then mix in the flour and ginger. Pour into a well- buttered dish. When cold, cut in thin slices and lay in a tin to bake. This is more like “ Brandy snacks.” Marmalade.—The marmalade used for one of the sponge- cakes as mentioned above was made from the following recipe, kindly given by Miss Adeane, of Llanfawr, Holy- head, from amongst her Welsh recipes.89 MARMALADE. “ MEBOS ” Mai'ch “ Mrs. Marshall’s Marmalade ”— 12 Seville oranges. 3 lemons. Divide the oranges into quarters and slice them all through into thin slices. Put the pips into a basin. To each pound of fruit add 2\ pints of water. Let all stand 24 hours. Then boil the mixture slozvly till the fruit is perfectly soft. Let it stand again 24 hours. Meantime cover the pips in the basin with water and keep them covered for 48 hours, then strain out the pips and add the water to the marmalade mixture. Weigh this, and to every pound of fruit add i lb. sugar. (The recipe says lbs. sugar, but we have found i lb. enough.) Boil all together slozvly and steadily till the juice forms into a jelly. This is generally in if hours’ time, but the exact time can easily be known by putting a little into a saucer to cool. The mixture must boil till the jelly forms. March 18.—Crystallized “ Mebos.”—I have to-day been crystallizing some “ mebos,” the dried and salted ripe apri- cots, the recipe for which is in Hilda's Where is it, p. 4. The mebos itself can be had at any grocer’s at the Cape, and to crystallize it you make a thin syrup of sugar and water, and pour when boiling hot over about 50 mebos. When they are soft take them out and drain them. Then rub each into crys- tallized sugar and roll up. They will keep well in jars in a dry place, and it makes a very pretty dish for dessert. Or I cup of sugar and i cup of water just boiled and poured over the mebos soaks it. It is then strained and rubbed into the sugar. In Hilda!s Where is it, we say lime-water, but this boiling hot syrup is much better. March 20.—A friend has sent me- an interesting list ofMarch CIRCULATING LIBRARY 90 cookery-books, with remarks on them. How glad one is to know the names of good books on cookery. So I shall transcribe it as I receive it. She says— Circulating library of books on domestic economy.—“ Would it not be a good plan in some districts to have a circulating library, especially in the country, among local friends, of books and magazines on cookery, on gardening, dairy, nursing, poultry, the care of children, furnishing, and other domestic matters? and if sometimes an artistic subject could be added, so much the better. Every one cannot afford to have a large library, or to spend much on such everyday helps ; but if we club together with our neighbours to spend altogether say ten shillings a month between us on such books, we should soon get a very useful collection, and it would be very refreshing to have a circulation of new ideas on our home work. “ It would of course require people who should undertake the duties of treasurer and librarian; this should be some one with a roomy house who could house the books when not in circulation, and keep a good catalogue, and a list to show who had the different books in reading; and also keep a list of fines payable by various members for keeping books overtime, losing or damaging them ; and there would have to be a fund for occasional rebinding. It would also be best at the end of each year to arrange to sell duplicate copies or any books no longer wanted, and the proceeds of this could be added to the expenses of re-binding or purchase of new books. “ The idea of circulating libraries for novels, magazines, and other literature is so familiar that I think it ought not to be difficult to get people to join ; and it has often occurred to me that, particularly in country districts, itCOOKERY BOOKS March 91 would be a real pleasure to the heads of households to get new ideas in this way and keep up with the times. “ The books might be changeable once a fortnight, renewable then to previous borrowers if wished for another fortnight, but none to keep any one book consecutively for more than a month. “ The changing of the books might be made the occasion of a tea-party at the house of one or other of the subscribers, and if there were plenty of these, this would not recur often enough to be a tax. “ Another plan would be for the books at the end of the year to be divided among the subscribers for that whole year, and only renewing those found especially useful. Each subscriber should thus get, say, half their subscription returned in books.” I think the idea would be well worth trying. She then goes on to say—“ I always look at the book- stall at any station where I have to wait, to see if they have any cookery books that might be worth getting, and have in this way collected quite a little library of them. Here is the list with some notes on their contents, in case you care to have it. Of course there are plenty of more import- ant books, but these are just ‘ my little lot.’ Everybody s Dinner-hook; from One Shilling to Ten, by Lady C. Howard. Published by Henry & Co., Bouverie Street, London, E.C. (I think it costs about 2s.) In this book the very good dinner menus are arranged according to prices of cost per person, which varies from is. to lOi"., so that one can choose economical or more expensive dishes, as the cost of each dish is given. A capital plan. “ This is supplemented by a chapter on ‘ Prime Hints for Dainty Housekeepers,’ another of ‘ Wrinkles from myCOOKERY BOOKS March 92 Grandmother’s Store-room,’ and a useful list of technical words used in cookery, with English and French meanings. The book is full of variety and good ideas very useful and suggestive. “ A Book of Sauces, by Mrs. Beaty Pownall (Chapman & Hs-ll). This admirable book will tell all we can want to know on the subject of sauces; it is full of the most minute reliable instruction, very clearly explained, and besides that is full of suggestions for any one with a little imagination and some little knowledp-e o * The book, besides ten chapters on actual sauces, has one on ‘flavouring butters,’ one on ‘garnishes,’ and a useful one on ‘ sundries.’ “ The People's Book of Moderti Cookery, by Eliza Acton (Simpkin, Marshall). This is not a new book, but is evidently a ‘ classic,’ having reached its thirty-fifth edition! I happened upon it at Bangor Station lately, having, oddly enough, just heard its praises sung by an old lady who had always used it. Its 500 pages are full of useful recipes and useful hints, and varieties too of ordinary things, such foi instance as mint sauce with the mint itself strained off, the mint being well pressed before straining off, and a stronger flavour ensured by the mint and sugar being well mixed and left for a time before the vinegar is added. Hot and cold sauces and store sauces fill close on forty pages! “ In the confectionery chapter there is a recipe for orange- flower candy. I wish you (who are lucky enough to live in an orange-flower land) would try it, and send me some ! “ Cookery (The Nutshell Series), a little 6d. work, published by Ilifife, 3 St. Bride Street, London. This is founded on continental cookery. The writer is strong on theCOOKERY AND OTHER NOTES March 93 necessity of a stock-pot as conducive to economy, and on the imperativeness of proper cleaning of kitchen utensils^ and she is a great advocate for the use of ‘Maggi ’ ^ essence, which no doubt is most useful for soups and gravies, and gives many recipes for using it.” March 22.—I have come upon a little memoranda of cooking and other notes I have scribbled down from time to time. Here are some of them most worth remember- ing. Some are from hearsay, some I have seen in news- papers or made a note of in books I was reading. I can only say that at the time I thought them reliable authorities. To avoid Tough Pastry.—If you do not wish your pastry to be tough, be sure not to re-open the oven door till the paste is set. It is the checking of the even heat which spoils and toughens the pastry. To keep in Gravy.—To keep gravy in the joint put it at once into boiling water, and after a few minutes add some cold—to reduce heat; after this heat again and simmer till done. The first boiling water acting on the albumen in the meat makes a kind of coat which keeps in the gravy, and the subsec^uent slow cooking makes the joint tender. Time for Cooking Various Joints, etc.—Large joints should be allowed 15 to 20 minutes for each pound weight of meat. Smaller ones 12 to 15 minutes. A chicken takes 20 minutes, and turkey i| to 2 hours. Rabbits should be cooked a long time, and in plenty of water—close on 2 hours. To Cook White Meat.—In boiling any white meat ^ A now well-known species of soup in a portable solid form.94 March TO PATTEN CHICKENS. CHEESES (poultry, etc.), add a piece of crumb of bread and a little butter or beef suet will do. This softens the water, keeps the colour, and preserves flavour of joint. Tinned Fruit, etc.—Tinned or bottled fruit should be kept in the dark—a dry cupboard is best for them. If the ends of the tins which contain fruit or meat are bulged out it has fermented, and should not be tcsed on any account. To Fatten Chickens.—Rice boiled with butter-milk and mixed with chopped suet. Of this give them two good meals a day, but nothing else besides; keep them in the dark and only have three or four together. Good Coffee.—I have cut this verse, which embodies the points of good coffee, from a newspaper— “ J’aime le cafe Chaud comme I’enfer, Noir comme le diable, Et doux comme un ange.” Seasons for Cheeses (mem. from Miss Adeane’s MS. book)— Cheddar is said to be best from February to October. Alezcf Roquefort in April. Port Salut, Bondons, Gournay, Neufchatel, Mont Dore, and cream cheese, May to September. Brie, October to April. Camembert, October to May. Stilton, November to June. Gruyere, Roquefort, Parmesan, and Dutch cheeses, all the year round. Grouse.—Grouse are excellent roasted “with bacon iackets on.”95 ALMOND PUDDING. TAPIOCA CREAM March March 24.—Almond Pudding (Miss Adeane’s).— Can one have too many pudding recipes ? Here is one for almond pudding. Cover a dish with thin paste; spread raspberry jam at the bottom. Beat up yolks of 8 eggs and the whites of 2. Mix with them ^ lb. powdered sugar, lb. butter, melted and flavoured with almonds (bitter and sweet almonds in equal proportions, well dried and pounded). Mix all well together and pour upon the raspberry jam. Bake the pudding in a slow oven i|- hours. March 26.—Do we enough appreciate tapioca } I don’t think it appears as often as it might in recipes. I am told that a great many of the ready-made jellies which are to be bought in London are made of tapioca instead of isinglass or gelatine, but “ boiled and boiled for any length of time ” till clear and thin. I suppose mixed with orange juice, or whatever it may be, to flavour. This tapioca cream is excellent (Miss Adeane’s recipe). Tapioca Cream.—To half-a-pint of whipped cream add an equal quantity of tapioca that has been well boiled in milk. Add a little pounded sugar and a few drops of essence to flavour. Serve cold in a glass dish. March 29.—Another letter on cookery books from my friend in London says— “ Do write down the following names on your Cookery Library list. All are brought out by your publishers, Messrs. Chapman & Hall, and all are worth having. The Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery, by Major L. Breakfasts, Luncheons and Ball Suppers, same author. Cookery up to Date, by Mrs. Humphrey. Dinners in Miniature, by Ethel Earl.COOKERY BOOKS March Official Handbook of the National Training School for Cookery. Add also Three Courses for Threepence, published by the Society for Promoting' Christian Knowledge, London ; and one called Cookery for Working Men's Wives, by Mrs! Elder, published in Scotland.’'Hprtl April 2.— One of the best months.—April is generally considered one of our best months at the Cape, the atmo- sphere being very clear and pleasant, and no “ south-easters ” blowing. Fruit.—Fresh fruit is not very plentiful, though apples and many varieties of French pears are to be had. Farms.—In reply to inquiries from a friend about small farms near Cape Town, I am writing to say that in those on the Cape Flats poultry farming can be successfully carried on. Some time ago the Government located some German emigrants on land on the Cape Flats ; these men have all done so well that they have built themselves comfortable houses, and most of them keep a few cows and sell eggs and vegetables. Water is plentiful, and artesian wells have been sunk in many parts where there were no natural springs. Good roads have been made, and soon there will be a railroad. The Claremont Flats are much the same ; land is not nearly so expensive out here as in Europe, but then, perhaps, it is not so fertile ; still it is wonderful how soon the most barren-looking spots are turned into gardens by careful cultivation and manure ; guano, sold in Cape Town,April APPLES A LA DAUPHINS 102 is very good for poor soils for winter crops, also crushed bone manure for vineyards and fruit trees. At Stellenbosch and Paarl farms are more valuable, and generally about one thousand acres, here fruit culture is being successfully carried on ; most of the places having arable land where crops of wheat, oats, etc. are grown as well as vineyards and fruit trees, also dairy farming, a sort of all-round industry, and crops of potatoes in the winter.^ It is impossible to say the price of land. A farm may be sold for Aiooo this year and be double that the next. No one should buy land without consulting some one capable of advising as to its merits, etc., but it is quite certain that in this country no one need starve, who is in- dustrious and sober and has been blessed with common- sense. Something can be done all the year round, pro- vided those who come out to farm have a liking for it; one’s next-door neighbour can often give useful information which the new-comer would not know. Poultry manure for Garden.—A moderate-sized poultry run, if carefully swept and the droppings covered with ashes sifted from the cinders collected out of the kitchen every morning, will, if judiciously used, enrich the soil for flowers and vegetables. Apples a la Dauphine.—Here are two recipes for apples, both are from Miss Adeane’s manuscript book, a “transla- tion of Louis Philippe’s receipt for Pommes a la Dauphine, Chateau d’Eu, Sept. 1843.” Peel and core 2 lbs. apples, taking care to keep them whole. Put them into a buttered stew-pan with a very * Sobriety is indispensable for success in a land where raw spirits are so cheap and harmful. Young men should be more warned of this before coming out,April APPLES AND CHUTNIBS 103 little water, a piece of cinnamon, a spoonful of cognac brandy and a little sugar. Put the stew-pan on a gentle fire to keep them whole ; when done place them in a mould large enough to let them rise. Put into each apple a little apricot marmalade and a small piece of candied lemon or orange-peel. Apples a la Prangipane.—The other (Pommes a la Frangipane) is as follows— Peel 5 or 6 moderate-sized apples and core. Lay in a dish and put over them a layer of apricot jam. Put 2 ozs. arrowroot in a stew-pan with a little powdered sugar, a pint of milk, and a gill of cream. Stir it over the fire till it boils (if too thick add more milk), pour it over the apples. Bake half-hour, or until brown, and quite hot (this quantity fills a large dish). Milford Apples.—Here is a very uncommon way of using apples—Miss Orde’s recipe for Milford apples. Pare and core a dozen ripe apples, let them stand 4 or 5 hours in rum, with fine sugar, lemon-peel and orange-flower water ; dry them, powder with flour, and bake them till they are a good colour, then place them in the dish and varnish them with sugar from a hot shovel. Chutnies.—Though I have given some six or seven recipes for chutnies in Hildas Where is it, I am very glad to be able to add Miss Elliott’s (of Holyhead) excellent recipe, which we can make now that apples are available. People like such differently flavoured chutnies, and I have heard of more than one lady who had good chutney recipes whose friends were but too glad if she would take commissions for making it for sale, so all such good things may be turned to account; but for sale one must be very careful that the quality is maintained, and the chutnies, jams,104 April BENGAL AND MANGO CHUTNIES preserves, or whatever it may be, should be always put up in the same shaped bottles holding the same exact quantity, and properly labelled, all alike; then people who order them know what to expect and what quantities to order. Bengal Chutney is the name given to another recipe, also Miss Elliott’s. Ingredients— 11 lbs. moist sugar. I lb. salt. ^ lb. garlic. I lb. onions. I lb. powdered ginger. ^ lb. dried chillies. I lb. mustard-seed. 1 lb. stoned raisins. 2 bottles of the best vinegar. 30 large unripe apples (very sour ones are the best). The sugar must be made into syrup; the garlic, onions, and ginger pounded in a mortar, the mustard-seed washed in cold vinegar and dried by the fire or in the sun, the apples peeled, cored and sliced, and boiled in bottles of vinegar till soft. W^hen cold put them in a preserving-pan and gradually mix in the other ingredients, including the other half-bottle of vinegar. Well stir the mixture till the whole is thoroughly blended, then bottle for use, corking up very tight. Mango Chutney(Miss Adeane’s).—Inanothersimilar recipe, called “ Mango Chutney,” and for which I suppose in India they use mangoes where we use apples, the ingredients and quantities are the same as in the previous recipe, except that shallot takes the place of garlic, and that 2| bottles of vinegar are wanted for this second one. Pare and slice the apples and boil them in one bottle ofSWEET POTATOES. SNOEK April 105 vinegar, then rub through a coarse sieve. Dissolve the salt and sugar over the fire in a half-bottle of vinegar; lightly scald the mustard-seed in another half-bottle of vinegar. Stone the raisins and pound quite smooth in the mortar. Pound the onions, chillies and shallots also quite smooth. When the apples are quite cold have all the ingredients thoroughly well blended together and bottle the mixture. April 3.—Vegetables.—Many of the vegetables pro- curable in March would still be obtainable. Sweet Potatoes.—Sweet potatoes would now be plentiful, and if boiled (unpeeled) for an hour and peeled just before serving, or then cut in slices and fried, they make a very good substitute for potatoes. (There is a recipe for stewing them in Hildas Where is it, p. 173.) Or they can be baked in a pan with any roast meats or fried as you would potatoes. Fish.—Snoek.—Among the different fish in season is Snoek (pronounced Snook), which during the months of April, May and June is considered at its best. This fish used at one time to be so plentiful that it was sold for '^d. apiece, but now one pays 2s. for one! Speaking to a Malay fisherman about the scarcity of snoek, he says it is owing to the sewerage in Table Bay. The boats have to go out a long way, for, said the Malay, “ a snoek is the most dainty of fish, and will touch no bait that smellsP This of course solves the mystery—it is awful to think of the water being polluted to such an extent ! It is a very delicate fish, with the peculiarity of having no scales. It can be cooked in various ways—boiled, fried, or “ flaked,” which means cut open down the back, sprinkled well with salt or put in brine, and after a day or ,two dried by106 April A MARINADE. ZAMBAL. KIDNEYS hanging in the sun, and cooked on the gridiron—this is a most appetizing way. The best part is the middle, which is generally very fat. Dried snoek makes an excellent “twicelaid.” See Fish Pie, Hilda!s Where is it, p. i68. German “ Marinade.”—Among my fish recipes I find the following, Mrs. Carl Becker’s, for a German “ Marinade ” for fish— I pint vinegar. I quart water. A few bay leaves. J oz. salt. A small white onion, sliced. ^ oz. butter. I doz. pepper-corns. I doz. allspice. 3 cloves. Boil these together about a quarter of an hour, to get out the flavour. Then put into this mixture half a “ stockfish,” or “cabeljon,” and after boiling up another quarter of an hour, leave it to get cold zn the spiced water mixture, and serve with mayonnaise sauce, for which there is a recipe in Hilda's Where is it, p. 141. Fish Sambal, or Zambal (Miss Breda’s).—Pound some cold dry fish with some onion and red or green chillies, then add a spoonful of vinegar. Serve as a relish with bread-and- butter, or buttered toast. April 5.—Kidneys and Eggs.—Every housekeeper is glad of good recipes for breakfast dishes, for which variety is comparatively difficult to get. This one (Mrs. Becker’s) for “kidneys and eggs” will be much liked, I think. Lay four kidneys for a few minutes in warm water, draw off the skins, cut the kidneys in half, and roll them inApril POPULAR CORNED MUTTON 107 fine bread-crumbs, seasoned with cayenne or ordinary pepper and salt Fry them slowly in butter or dripping till nice and tender; when done cut in tiny squares like dice. Take four eggs (two will do if eggs are scarce), beat them up with a little milk, then mix in the minced kidneys and fry all in a pan as you would “scrambled eggs,” and pour over squares of toast, buttered, before serving. This quantity makes a large dish. Corned Mutton.—Another old-fashioned Cape breakfast dish is corned mutton, as we used to do it at Groote Poste. For this you want— 6 lbs. breast of mutton. 2 ozs. salt. I oz. brown sugar. ^ oz. saltpetre. Cut off all the shoulder-part and joint the mutton before corning. Lay the meat in a flat bowl, first rough-salting it with just a sprinkling of salt and throwing away the liquid formed. Now take the mixture of salt, sugar and saltpetre and rub all well into the meat and leave in the bowl for three days. Then boil it in water at boiling-point till ^uile te^ider, when the bones will come out easily. Let it cool, putting a flat plate and a weight on it to flatten it. When cold it can be put on the side-table like a ham, or for breakfast or luncheon slices are nice grilled, with a sprinkling of bread-crumbs and pepper. Scarify the upper part of the rib before sprinkling. We call it “ribs,” but it is really part of the breast, about six pounds of Welsh mutton. Eaten cold, plain-boiled, it is very good also. When out in the veldt picnicking or travelling, slices of corned mutton stuck into a stick cut like a toasting-fork and held over a clear-burning fire are very appetizing. As108 April A GOOD COOOANUT PUDDING it grills the meat so quickly, chops done like this are also supposed to be very nice. April 17. A Good Cocoanut Pudding.—Among puddings we have had lately and liked is this good cocoanut pudding (Miss Breda’s recipe), which is well worth recording. For this you want— 2 ozs. butter. i" grated or desiccated cocoanut (you can buy it in half-pounds). ^ breakfast-cup of fine bread-crumbs or stale sponge- cake crumbled fine. 2 ozs. sugar. A large teacupful of milk. 4 eggs. ^ teaspoonful of vanilla essence to flavour. Cream the butter and add the sugar and the beaten yolks of the eggs, well whisked, then put in the cocoanut and stir well before adding the milk and the bread-crumbs, and lastly the whites of 2 eggs, whipped to a froth. Pour this mixture into a pie-dish, which should not be quite full, and bake it half-an-hour. Have ready the 2 whites of the other eggs, whipped up to a stiff froth, with I oz. sifted sugar and | teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Pile this in large spoonfuls on the top of the pudding and put it back in the oven, to get slightly brown, for a few minutes. You can decorate the pudding with crystallized cherries or candied citron, before piling on the whisked whites. Another recipe (also Miss Breda’s) says—3 ozs. butter, 6 and 3 ozs. sugar to same amount of crumbs and cocoanut. The eggs being divided as in preceding recipe, and half the whites put in at different times.NOTES OP DISHES April 109 In place of “ i oz.” of sugar with the last set of whites “ 3 tablespoonfuls ” are mentioned. April 20.—Notes of Dishes.—The following rough memo, of sketches or notes of dishes was found in the handwriting of the head of a large household, and was probably notes of what struck her as good ideas at some country-house visit— “ Lambs’ feet with parsley and butter sauce. “Brains with a little chopped tongue fried like croquettes. “Tendrons of veal arranged as cutlets, on rounds of fried bread, centre of circle filled with French beans and mixed vegetables, cut in pretty shapes. “Stewed chicken in a wreath, of cabbage three inches thick. Chicken glazed and cabbage chopped very fine. “ Soup—4 lbs. bacon, 4 lbs. rice, i cabbage, 6 carrots, 6 onions (and water or stock to all, I suppose). This dined twenty-six persons, and was found excellent. 1846. “Tomato sauce handed round with pea-soup (!). “ Hare soup, clear., with pieces of meat in it. “Hare a la Fran^aise: head and shoulders cut off, split up the breast and laid flat on the dish, legs and all well pique. “ Pudding flavoured with orange-flower. “Beurre noir (black butter), i.e. butter warmed with vinegar and fried parsley in it to eat with boiled fish or cutlets. “ Veal cutlets en papillotes—done with savoury crumbs (J cheese or forcemeat), and a piece of ham or tongue on each cutlet within the paper envelope. “ Fried eggs, several in a dish, with slices of tongue between ; rich brown sauce.April RECIPE CLUB. SALE OP PRODUCE “ A wee drop of rum in apple-tart. In curry or mullagatawny soup always boil two or three apples.” April 23. The New Recipe Club.—The same friend who wrote me the suggestion about a circulating library of works on cookery and other domestic subjects writes again —“ If you ever carry out the idea of the circulating library of cookery books, you might like also to try a plan I read of the other day. It was of a club in America the members of which met at stated times, when each one had to produce a recipe, original or otherwise, that was absolutely new to the others. I think recipes that were recognized by any other member had to pay a fine. You might have some such united plan at the fortnightly teas when the circulating books are exchanged, and make an interesting collection of original recipes.” Sale of Country Produce.—“ I have often wondered,” she goes on to say, “whether anything has ever been done regarding our long-ago idea of different farms combin- ing to send their produce for sale to the nearest town. I dare say you have quite forgotten it. Here is the skeleton of the idea, in case you ever see your way to get something of the kind tried. In districts where there are many farms within reasonable distance of each other, the suggestion was that they should combine, and in order to save the expense and trouble of each farm sending its own (comparatively) small quantity of butter, poultry, fruit and vegetables separately into the nearest market town twice a week or so, they should arrange that a cart with the collected produce should go, say three times a week, to the railway or into the town; and it would depend on the number joining in the scheme how often each farmerApril ADVANTAGES OF CO-OPERATION had to spare his cart—probably once a fortnight instead of twice a week. The advantages would be— “ {a) Saving of time, as one cart quite full would do the work, instead of three or four carts only partly filled. “ {h) Better price for goods, as they would go in larger, regular quantities, and could therefore probably undertake supplying hotels or steamers, as their average quantity would be greater. “(f) In case of railways, I suppose it is the same at the Cape as in England, i. e. that if a truck-load can be sent at a time, the cost of carriage is much lower in proportion, and things go straight through and therefore quicker. “ Of course if it were possible for the combined farmers to have a stall, barrow, or shop of their own in the town they would greatly increase their profits, as they would sell direct to consumers. “ I understand that two things are generally wanting in England (and I dare say it is the same in the Colonies), among those who would wish to get a good sale for the products of small farms or gardens. “ First, they don’t know what are the best sorts (of fruit, vegetables, poultry, etc.) to grow for the best prices. “ Secondly, they don’t understand the proper packing and display of their goods.^ “ They will, for instance, send a basket of apples of all sizes and several kinds mixed together ; whereas the ‘ pro- ^ In the September number of the Woman!s Agricultural Times, an interesting short article quotes from the Journal of Greengrocery, describing an Association in Germany for instructing fruit-growers in best ways of picking and packing fruit, and especially how to grade or display their produce for sale. This article has appeared since the above was written, and confirms these suggestions in many particulars.April PACKING AND SALE OP FRUIT, etc. fessional will sort his apples for packing, not only accord- ing to kind, but according to size too, when they look much better, and people can appreciate what they are buying. Then no non-professional would believe the value in effect of wrapping each apple or orange in a bright- coloured tissue-paper. This particularly tells in the case of apples, of which many of the best tasting sorts are the least showy—and it also gives an effect of their being worth taking care of, which adds to their look of precious- ness, and attracts the eye. No doubt the most effectual way of imparting know- ledge of the salable qualities of different species and the proper method of packing and sale would be best given by itinerant Government lecturers, who could themselves personally visit the farms and gardens and advise as to pruning old sorts of trees and planting the best new, and all such details. Worn-out and valueless sorts of trees no doubt take as much room as the best kinds, and what they produce is not half the value. “ Two other points I think the non-professional producer would benefit by realizing are— “ I. That customers like to be able to depend on an average uniform excellence; they like to be sure that they can rely on always getting an equally good especially in the case of butter and eggs. 2. It seems to take a great deal of experience to teach people that the value of THE BEST in anything very greatly exceeds that of second best, and that therefore it is far more worth while to try and grow the best than be content with the second best. “ Of course all the financial arrangements of. such an undertaking would have to be very carefully planned jApril A CO-OPERATIVE SHOP 113 I but there are so many instances—successful instances—of co-operative dairies, etc., already in existence that it ought not to be difficult to get other people’s experiences as to this, though the organizers of each thing of the kind would have to buy their own experience, and probably the only safe way would be to start on a very small scale and let it grow. “ But think how much material several farms together could supply for a small shop: fruit, vegetables, eggs, poultry, game, cheeses, marmalade, jams and preserves, butter, cream cheeses, honey, flowers, pickles, chutnies, ostrich feathers, hams, bacon, wine and liqueur, raisins, dried fruits, tobacco (i*), cakes, milk and cream, mushrooms; and why not, like our grandmothers, make pot-pourri or perfumes I What a delightful shop it would be ! “ In England the Great Eastern Railway publishes a list giving in parallel columns names and addresses of farmers, market gardeners, or amateurs who are prepared to send farm or garden produce direct to consumers ; the county ; the station whence it starts ; and whether the goods men- tioned can be supplied in large or small quantities, so— County. Station. Name and Address. Description of Produce. Small or large quantity. Suffolk Finningham Cater, J. F., Park Farm, Cotton, Stowmarket. Butter, eggs and poultry. Small. Suffolk Somerleyton Peto, L., Blun- deston, Low- estoft. Butter, eggs, poultry, cream, ham, bacon, sausages, pork pies, honey, cream cheese. Large or Small.“EASTERN COUNTIES” PLAN April “ The list goes into minute particulars of what each can supply, and though most are described as ‘ eggs, poultry and vegetables,’ or ‘farm produce generally,’ others will offer only ‘ honey,’ or ‘ potatoes,’ or ‘ asparagus,’ or ‘flowers (is. ^d. large box) assorted, April to October.’ Another, again, says, ‘Jams, samole box ten i-lb. jars assorted jams, 5^.’ Another very modestly offers ‘parsley and sage only. All these things the railway company take from any station at 4^. per 20 lbs. by passenger train, and charge ‘ id. additional for every 5 lbs. or part thereof up to 60 lbs., includmg delivery within the usjml limits! “ The conditions are— 1. That the produce be packed in the boxes on sale at the different stations, or similar ones. 2. That boxes are secured by nails, not by rope or cord. 3- That produce is conveyed at ownei's rtsk, and carriage prepaid (by parcels stamps on sale at stations). “ 4. That no box weigh more than 60 lbs. The boxes mentioned are intended to save senders the expense of conveyance of small returned empties, and are therefore light and inexpensive. They vary in size from lof in. length X7| in. breadth x 3 in. depth, for which only i\d. is the price, up to 2if x 14 x 7, costing 5^. “ Fish, in the same way, is sent from Yarmouth to London 16 lbs. for 4<3f., and so on. I believe this arrangement of the railway company was a good deal due to the late Rev. Prebendary Harry Jones, who had noticed (I am told) the prices of turnips sold in costermongers’ carts in London, and thought that if his friends the farmers in the Eastern Counties could but get half those prices, agriculture would ‘ look up.’ ******115 COLLECTION AND SALE OF EGGS April “ I have just been shown a printed paper circulated by a ‘lady gardener’ in Wales, giving a list with prices of plants for sale, also excellent pot-pourri ‘ from a very old recipe,’ is. 6d. an oz.; lavender flowers dried for linen-bags, Afd. an oz. She also sells poultry, eggs, butter, vegetables, fruit, honey, and cut flowers.” Collection and Sale of Eggs.—“To show what method will do, I have been told of a lady who makes arrangements with a number of farmers and cottagers living within a few miles of her house to take all their eggs at a certain price all tlie year round ; this pays them because they know they have a certain market, and have no trouble of taking their things to a distance. In her neighbourhood eggs at the cheap time of year are 24 per i^-., and she gets them for something like 14 a is. all the year round. In winter she sells the new-laid ones at 2d. and 2\d. each, and never less than id., so that in the long run she gains a good bit Then at the cheap time of year she ‘ pots ’ thousands in barrels with some preparation of lime, and sells them as fresh (not new-laid) eggs in the winter. “ She is so successful with these that out of 8000 she only had one returned as bad. But these eggs have each to be looked at through an egg-tester before being packed. “ Most of the railway companies now take these egg- boxes at specially reduced rates, and issue labels of their own for them. “ Mrs. has a pony-cart, and she and her daughters go round every morning to all the cottagers and farmers from whom she buys, and who have the eggs ready in baskets, so that it takes very little time to collect, and the empty baskets of the day before are left in their stead. The eggsApril INCUBATING CHICKENS 116 are then taken home at once and stamped and labelled, and dispatched in the pony-cart again to the station. “ Each day has its different set of customers. All this of course means a great deal of continuous trouble and exer- tion every day—as you may imagine from the fact that she sends 18,000 a week to one large supply business, and also has two clubs and a hospital on her list, besides private friends. “ It would not of course succeed unless every egg were guaranteed and stamped with date of laying. The stamp- ing machines and the special boxes cost a good bit to begin with. “In the neighbourhood of large towns some such scheme might work as weW in the Colonies as in England.” Incubating Chickens.—Here is another lady’s experience in England. “ I have myself a small number of hens, and find that Gggs are more profitable than feeding up chickens for table. “ There is also good profit to be made by incubation, as selling the chickens at one or two weeks old for from 5j-. to 8s. a dozen, according to breed—whether pure-bred or not. “ During the winter and last autumn I hatched and sold, through advertising in some of the poultry papers, several dozen chicks ; and if any one could really make it their business, I feel sure it is a profitable undertaking. “ My incubator, the ‘ Peripage,’ cost 36^. 6d. per 50 eggs, from Corteen Bros., 155 St.John’s Hill, close to Clapham Junction, Surrey. “ The capital required to start with an inexpensive machine is not great. A rearer is required, which costs I ys. 6d.; the best I know are to be had from the Rev. W. H. Butlin, Leonard Stanley, Stonehouse, Gloucestershire.CURRY PIE. BURNT CREAM April 117 They are the most practical and safe, being warmed with hot water. Then there is the purchase of eggs, and the cost of either oil or gas for the lamps. I estimate the latter about 9<^. a week. “ The feeding of small chicks costs very little, and the sooner they can be sold after hatching the more profitable it is.” April 27.—Curry Pie.—I see that all the recipes in Hilda!s Where is it are for curry to be served with boiled rice ; but a very nice way is to make a curry pie, for which Mrs. Hill’s recipe is excellent. Cut the meat up small, fry some onions brown and the meat with them, put meat and onions in a pie-dish, and half fill the dish with good gravy in which you have smoothly mixed a dessertspoonful of curry-powder. Cover all over, but not too thickly, with mashed potato with which you have mixed a little of the curry gravy, and bake the pie a nice brown. Some boiled rice may, if liked, be mixed with the meat and onions. This is a nice dish for children’s dinner as a change. Burnt Cream.—There is an excellent recipe for burnt cream, or “ creme-brulee ” (a most delicious dish), in Mrs. Earle’s Pot-pourri from a Surrey Garden. The following, the “ Cambridge recipe ” for the same dish, is rather dif- ferent, but will have to be tried when eggs are plentiful, for it needs no less than nine yolks of eggs! Ingredients : i| pints of very good cream, 9 yolks of eggs, I lb. powdered sugar. Put the cream in a stew-pan, and put it on the stove to boil. Have the yolks ready beaten with a tablespoonful of sugar. When the cream boils add the yolks and make it custard. When the custard is made strain it into a shallow dish andApril VINEYARDS AND GRAPES 118 bake for about ten minutes, till thoroughly set. Then take it out of the oven and let it cool gradually for a quarter of an hour. Sprinkle the remainder of the sugar over the top to make a crust. Have a red-hot salamander ready, and hold it over the sugar near enough to burn the same a good rich brown (it should be like a sheet of brown glass over the custard). Then put it into a cool place and do not serve till quite cold. I have seen a red-hot poker used for such things where a salamander was not at hand. April 28.—Vineyards.—’After the vintage is over at the end of April, the vineyards are temporarily pruned or cut clean, as they call it here ; but the actual pruning, when only about four branches are left for bearing, is done in June and July. Every one who comes to the Cape will at once notice that the grapes are pruned into small bushes, and planted from three to four feet apart, in rows, either way. (They are planted from well-selected cuttings early in August.) Grapes will bear fruit the second year. Unfortunately “ Oidium,” which has been such a scourge for more than thirty years in the Colony, necessitates the frequent use of sulphur, which is blown on to the vines and small bunches of grapes, by means of bellows, and if carefully done, completely removes the oidium, which is a small fungus, and looks like mildew. Grapes are very successfully exported to England. The hanepot is one of our most delicious dessert grapes, and carries very well. I should recommend any one who intends farming in South Africa to take in The Agricultural Journal, pub-AGRICULTURAL JOURNAL. LOCUSTS April lished by the Department of Agriculture, Cape of Good Hope. It gives very useful hints, and by kind permission I am inserting their last paper, on Locust Destruction^ in the Appendix to this book. The Department is also going to publish handbooks on the best methods of cultivation of cereals in different parts of the Colony, and regarding the best breeds of cattle, sheep and goats, which will be well worth careful study.\ Vf' I •41 s 4 < i *i i125 May I.—First Winter Month.—This is our first winter month, and is generally very pleasant as regards weather. Gardeners, however, find it very trying, for where oaks grow in abundance the litter from the constantly falling leaves gives a great deal of extra work. To use them a deep hole may be dug in the ground, and all rubbish as well as oak leaves put in and left two years, when you will find they have made a good mould. May is a favourite time for going to the seaside, and Kalk Bay, Muizenberg and Simonstown are much frequented. Winter Clothes.—Winter clothes need not be very thick or heavy, ordinary serges would be found quite warm enough, with a little additional warmth in under-garments. Fruit. — Lemons, citrons, shaddock and guavas are coming in now. Another fruit which is in season in May is medlars, and chestnuts also are available, and in Natal pineapples and bananas are to be had, and are sold in all parts of Cape Colony, imported from Natal, which has a more tropical climate. Mrs. Hiddingh’s Guava Jelly.—Guava makes a beautiful jelly, which can be made so:—Take 50 medium-sized guavas, and without peeling them slice them in rounds half-GUAVA MOULD. FRUIT SALAD May 126 an-inch thick; put them in an enamelled preserving-pot (or a copper one is best, but must be very clean) with enough water to cover them well. Let this boil slowly till the fruit is soft, and then strain it through an enamelled colander (as tin vessels discolour the guavd), or if you have not an enamelled colander at hand, a piece of coarse white muslin will do for straining the fruit. The next day take 2 cups of sugar to every 3 cups of guava juice and boil briskly in a very clean copper pot. It jellies quicker when done in small quantities. When it bubbles up very quickly and froths sputtering up, put a little on a flat plate, and if it gathers a sort of cream and hardens quickly it is good. Don’t mind if it has a troubled look when you add the sugar, it becomes clear in boiling, and ought when done to be of a rich dark ruby colour. In Hilda's Where is it, p. 122, is another recipe for guava jelly, which is rather different, as they are peeled. Guava Mould.—Another excellent way of using guavas is according to the following recipe for guava mould. This is made by first peeling them and slicing and pulping them, adding a little water and straining out the seeds; you then add I cup of sugar to every 3 cups of juice and let it boil well for 5 or 10 minutes. Some gelatine should mean- time have been soaked, and you then add \ packet of soaked gelatine to about every 4 cups of the guava. Boil the mixture up again and pour it into a porcelain mould. Custard should be served with it, or no doubt cream, especially Devonshire cream, would be delicious with it. Fruit Salad.—Slices of pineapples, bananas and oranges in layers sprinkled with sugar are excellent, with half a wine-glass of Van der Hum poured over.127 MEDLAR JELLY. CITRON PRESERVE May Medlar JeUy.—For medlar jelly there is a good recipe from Swellendam, in Hilda’s Where is it^ p. 122. Lady Adela Goff’s Medlar Jelly.—Another recipe for medlar jelly, very similar to the above, is Lady Adela Goff’s, but as it varies in some particulars I copy it here, as the medlar jelly made at Hale Park is, I am told, most excellent, and very similar to guava jelly. When the medlars are quite ripe put them into a preserving-pan with as much cold water as will cover them, simmer slozvly till they become a pulp—if this is not attended to the zvhole thing is spoilt—strain through a bag, and to a pint of liquor add f lb. loaf sugar. Boil this about an hour. When cold it will be stiff. Skim the top, but do not stir it after it begins to boil, and have a good fire that it may boil fast. May 4.—Mrs. Breda’s Citron Preserve.—Citrons preserved in the following way make a nice dish for dessert now that fresh fruits are scarce. It is Mrs. Breda’s recipe, and is best done in two days. To every half-dozen green citrons you will require their weight in sugar before scraping. Pare or scrape the citrons, using a medium-sized grater, then lay them whole in a deep bowl, and after sprinkling 2 or 3 ozs. of salt over them, cover the citrons with a plate to keep them from rising, and pour into the bowl boiling water sufficient to cover the fruit. The next day halve or quarter the citrons, taking out the pulp carefully (as this being bitter is never used), lay them in your copper preserving-pan, sprinkle a handful of salt over them, and cover them with cold water. Set the pan on the fire to boil till the fruit is soft enough to pierce with a reed or blunt skewer. Then take the pieces of citron out with a spoon, and put them into very coldFRIENDS TO LUNCHEON May 128 water for half-an-hour, after which squeeze them as dry as you can without breaking. Now put your fruit into the preserving-pan and cover with sugar, same weight as the fruit, and measuring the sugar (after being weighed) with a cup, take in proportion 4 cups of water to 6 cups of sugar, let it melt and boil it up slowly, setting aside for next day^ when it should boil—say 4 or 5 hours—till clear and syrup nice and oily. The citron preserve we make can be candied, but we keep it in jars in syrup, and drain it off a few days before we want to use it, roll it in dry sugar, and dry in a cool oven or on a cake-tray in the sun and air. We do the green figs in the same way. May 8.—The T s came to luncheon to-day, but as they had to go back by a train early in the afternoon, we made it a very abbreviated meal, so as not to spend all their visit in the dining-room. Here is the menu : cutlets in paper at one end, an old French colonist’s recipe, and at the other beefsteaks from the under-cut, a recipe given me by Miss Liesching from a good German manuscript recipe-book, stone cream, etc. Cutlets in Paper.—Pare and cut up the cutlets neatly. Soak them in egg and roll them in fine bread-crumbs, to which is added a little grating of nutmeg, pepper and salt. Butter some sheets of cooking paper and fold the cutlet in it, leaving the end of each bone sticking out. Bake in a hot oven in a cutlet-dish, or they may be done in a baking- tin or an enamelled dish two inches deep. Steaks from the Under-cut of Beef.—This is a very good recipe. Take 2 lbs. beef, under-cut is best, but rump- steak will do (i| lbs. if Australian), wash it in warm water quickly, cut two inches thick, and chop well with a bluntMISS ELLIOTT’S STONE CREAM May 129 K knife, this process makes it very tender; lay it in a pie- dish and pour some milk over it, leaving it to soak for an hour. Now take some onions, cut in rings, and fry them a light-brown in fat. Take them out of the pan and keep hot. Put half-an-ounce of butter in the frying- pan and let it heat well. Now roll the beefsteaks in a mixture of flour, fine bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and fry them in the hot pan on a quick fire, turning constantly. Be very careful 7iot to put a fork into the steaks, or all the richness will ooze out, but turn them with a knife. When brown, which will take about eight minutes, pop the steaks on a very hot dish, heap the fried onions on the top of the steaks, and serve quickly. This is_the same as a recipe given me by Mrs. Becker. Miss Elliott’s Stone Cream.—For a pudding at luncheon we had stone cream from the following good old recipe of Miss Elliott’s. Put at the bottom of a glass dish 3 spoonfuls of lemon-juice with a little of the peel grated and some apricot sweetmeat, chopped small. Then take i pint of rich cream with ^ oz. of isinglass dissolved in two-thirds of a pint of water, and sugar to your taste. Let it boil 5 minutes, stir- ring it all the time ; strain it into a jug that has a spout or lip to it, and when the cream is almost cold pour it over the apricot in your dish, pouring round and round the dish till all is in. You may ornament the cream with what sweet- meat you please. The recipe adds—“ It is not intended this recipe should be as stiff as flummery.” What a nice old-fashioned name “Flummery” is! it sounds like nothing later than the end of last century, and that I dare say is the date of the “yellow flummery” and “white flummery ” which are among the old recipes belong- ing to Miss Elliott (of Holyhead). I will write them out130 May CREAM CHEESE. “ LEMON SOLID ” piesently, for they sound very good, but I must finish what I have to say about our little luncheon, which is merely that we had dessert on the table and a cake, cream cheese, and butter; and finished afterwards with coffee on the garden stoep. The cake we had was Mrs. Van der Byl’s sponge-cake, of which the recipe is printed in Hildas Where is it, p. 28. There are many recipes for cream cheeses. Here is one of Mrs. Longley’s from the book of 1835, which I mentioned previously. Cream Cheese.—Put a dry cloth in the mould and fill it with thick cream, when it must remain undisturbed till it stiffens (about two days), then turn into a fresh cloth and replace in mould. Do the same daily till firm enough, then sprinkle a little salt on it and fold in a cloth for two 01 three days in a cool place, when it will be ready for use. Coffee as the French make it—Talking of the coffee after luncheon reminds me of a quaint extract in Mrs. Longley’s book, marked as being from the Household Almanack—no doubt an annual of those days. It is headed—“ To make coffee as the French make it.” “ Have a coffee-pot with a lip ; pour into it as many cups of boiling water as you wish to make cups of coffee. Let the water boil, then put in as many tablespoonfuls of coffee as there are cups of water. Stir it and let it simmer till the ‘ head falls. When the coffee is done take it off the fire, pour in a cup of cold water, set the coffee on the hearth, and let it stand ten minutes, when it will be fine. For breakfast put one cupful of this coffee to three or four cups of boiled milk and sweeten to taste, and you will find it a luxury at a small expense as great as wealth can procure ! ” May 9.—Lemon Solid.—Mrs. Fife’s recipe for lemon solid“ AMBROSIA.” LEMON CHEESE May 131 is as follows, and is so good that a friend of ours always calls it “ ambrosia.” Now that we have plenty of lemons it is easily made, and a pretty dish. If you think it wants more colour, you can always drop a few crystallized cherries, or any other decorative sweetmeat, into the top points of your mould. 1 lb. lump sugar. 2 lemons. I oz. gelatine, pint milk. The yolks of 3 eggs. Dissolve the gelatine in half-a-pint of boiling water ; keep stirring it till it is dissolved. Squeeze the lemon-juice into the sugar; add the grated rind of the lemons. Well beat up the eggs and add the milk to them, then putting all the ingredients together, stir them well a few moments and strain through muslin. Put the mixture into a well-wetted mould, and when cold turn out. All such shapes can have additions of blanched almonds stuck in hedgehog fashion, or whipped cream in the centre of the mould or round the shape. Lemon Cheese.—For lemon cheese—another way of using lemons when abundant—the following is an old recipe, which sounds delicious. Take 2 lemons and rub off the rind with sugar—the amount of sugar is not given, but one would suppose as much sugar as would absorb the oil in the rind. Put the sugar in a basin, add to it a pint of good cream, the juice of 2 large lemons, and 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Whisk it well for 10 minutes. Lay a piece of gauze (.? muslin) in the inside of a sieve, then pour the mixture into the sieve to drain. You must make, the lemon cheese the132 May LEMON CREAM. MILAN SOUPPL^ day before you want to use it, and if you wish your cheese to be of an oval shape, put your round sieve in hot water fiist and tie a string across it to keep it an oval till the “cheese” is set. ^ The cheese when finished will keep the shape of the sieve. Lemon Cream without Cream.—Here is yet another recipe for lemons, and as in cool weather it will keep some days, it is useful to know of for large luncheon-parties, etc., when you want to make as many things as possible before the day itself. Ingredients— I lb. sugar, pint of boiling water. The whites of 3 eggs and the yolk of i. The juice of 3 lemons. Dissolve the sugar in the boiling water, and when the water is cool add the oggs beaten, then the lemon-juice. Stiain the mixture into a jug and set it in a pan of boiling water, stirring it continuously one way till it is of the thickness of custard. Milan Souffle. This also is a pudding to be made in lemon time. Juice of 6 lemons. Yolks of 6 eggs. 6 ozs. sugar. ^ oz. isinglass, dissolved in water. I glass of wine or liqueur. Take the eggs, sugar and lemon-juice and put on the fire, stirring till they boil; take them ofif and add the isinglass and liqueur. Let it cool. Beat the whites of the eggs up, then mix all together and put in a glass dish, adding bruised pistachio nuts. Then ice it.133 FLUMMERY. GLAZE, RISOTTO May May lo.—Flunimery.—I must not omit to take down the flummery recipes I mentioned above. The first is— To make flummery (yellow). Take i oz. isinglass and dissolve it in a little water, then add i pint of sherry wine, the yolks of 4 or 5 eggs, the juice of 2 lemons, and sugar to your taste. Let it boil a few minutes, then strain it into a clean basin, and keep stirring it till it is near cold. Wet your moulds with water, and fill them. To make flummery (white). For a pint of flummery take I oz. isinglass, boil it in a little water till it is quite dissolved, then add i pint of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Chop a few bitter and sweet almonds, the peel of I lemon, and a little sugar to your taste. Boil it a few minutes, then strain it through a fine sieve; keep stirring it till it is near cold. Wet your moulds well with clean cold water before you fill them. May 13.—Glaze.—To make a clear dark-brown glaze, which so much improves the look of cold pressed beef or tongue, you must have ordinary good gravy, and by constant boiling reduce to, say, a quarter the original quantity, which when cold will jelly. You can make it as thick a glaze as you like by suc- cessive coats being brushed over the meat, but be sure the under one is dry before you brush the meat over again with the glaze. Risotto a la Milanaise.—This is a nice savoury dish, and will be specially liked by people fond of cheese. It is, as you see, Italian, and I am indebted to Miss Adeane for it. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan and add a small quantity of minced onion. Let it just colour, but not brow7i. Take a cupful of rice and let it cook in the butter about five minutes, adding sufficient stock to cook the rice.134 May ANOTHER RISOTTO. QUIN’S SAUCE When cooked add about the same quantity (a cupful) of grated cheese, and little rounds of tongue (cut slices flat and then punch out with a cutter about the size of a shilling, into rounds). Bake till brown. Put a little grated Parmesan cheese and butter on the ^top, and serve very hot. A similar dish I have seen mentioned elsewhere was said to be improved by the addition of some sausages fried and served with it, but I see that recipe had no cheese in it. Another Risotto.—Another risotto recipe (Mrs. Clark’s), from Genoa, has much less cheese and would therefore be all the better for a breakfast dish. 4 tablespoonfuls of cooked rice. I tablespoon ful of ham (or tongue), chopped fine. I tablespoonful of chicken or pheasant, chopped fine. I hard-boiled egg, chopped fine. 1 small onion, chopped fine. Put a small pat of butter to get hot, and put the onion in it to cook a little first, then add the other ingredients. When serving up add a spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper to taste. Serve very hot. May 19.—QiUin’s Sauce.—This, which is a sauce for flat fish, is from a manuscript book belonging to Miss Whiteman, and inscribed Lady Piggotfs Receipts, 1808, and is called Quin’s sauce for flat fish. 2 heads of garlic, each clove cut in half. 1 oz. cayenne pepper. 2 spoonfuls of India soy. 2 spoonfuls of walnut pickle. To be all mixed in one pint of vinegar. Shake it well and cork it. N.B.—It will be fit for use in a month, and will keep good for years.135 COLD CURRY. WELSH TITIENS May May 21.—“ The Blues’ ” Cold Curry.—I find many people who are fond of curry have never discovered how good it is cold, as a shape, served with very well boiled rice, also cold, round it; the latter can be garnished with red and green chillies if liked. “ The Blues’ ” cold curry is an excellent version of this savoury cold supper dish. Take some carrots, onions, celery, apples, tomatoes, and a bunch of herbs. Fry all a nice brown, then add curry- powder, curry-paste, and flour to taste. Fry these also. When that is cooled add some chutney and some good jellied stock (or a good lump of glaze, or a small pot of Liebig’s extract of meat). Boil well together and pass through a tammy; the sauce is then ready. If meat already cooked is to be used for this curry, cut it up in rather large dice, add to the sauce, and boil up ; and then turn it into the dish to be used next day. But if uncooked meat is used, it will require to be fried a nice brown and cooked in the curry-sauce for one hour. May 25.—Welsh “Titiens.”—Here is an excellent Welsh tea-cake which is easily made if some “ hot stuft ” is wanted for tea or breakfast. 3 grated apples. ^ lb. flour. About ^ lb. of mixed butter and lard. 2-|- heaped teaspoonfuls of brown sugar. I good teaspoonful of baking-powder. Rub all together in a bowl, stir up with a fork, and add a few currants. If you have no apples, add a few spoonfuls of milk. Sprinkle a little flour over when well stirred and knead on a board. Then roll out with a rolling-pin, cut in circles and lay on a griddle which you have previouslyMay WELSH TITIENS p-cased with a little buttered paper. When one side is brown, turn over, and then sprinkle the brown top with sugar (the sugar side must not be turned down or it will stick). They must come to table very hot. Some people omit currants.141 5uue June I.—The Shortest Day.—In this month, which answers to December in England in that respect, we have (on the 21st) our shortest day. It is in fact our mid-winter. Yet the weather is often more balmy than in July, and we have also less rain. Ordinarily warm clothing is worn. June 3.—I shall make cuttings of hydrangeas, which are easily grown, this month; they like rich mould. Hydrangeas grow to great perfection in the suburbs of Cape Town, but like to be shaded from the sun ; they flower about Christmas or New Year, and last for months. Fruits.—Oranges begin to come into season, but are still rather sour, they will be far better in September and October ; but they will do for cooking, and nothing is nicer than baked oranges. Baked Oranges.—You just cut the top nearly off (leaving it like a lid with a hinge), and bake the oranges as you would apples, and send them to table quite hot; to be eaten egg-fashion, with a spoon and sugar; cream, too, if you wish. They are always popular. Orange tart, too, is very good ; the oranges divided into “figs,” and all thfe white taken off, the crust (a goodJune GUAVAS. PISH SALAD. “ PEKELAAR ” “ short ” crust) made and baked separately, a boiling hot syrup poured over the oranges (they are not otherwise cooked), and crust put on with white of egg, before sending to table ; or the oranges may be peeled and sliced and the pips taken out and done the same way—but waiting to put the crust on till the oranges are cold. This is nice for a cold luncheon or Sunday supper. Guavas.—Guavas are still plentiful, and bananas are sold in all the fruit shops—they are mostly from Natal. Cape Gooseberry, etc.—The Cape gooseberry, like green Japanese lanterns, Physalis peruviana, Linn., a native of Peru, is also in season now (and makes excellent tarts and jam), as well as limes, lemons, shaddocks, and citrons. June 2.—Vegetables.—Cauliflowers are plentiful, turnips, carrots, and potatoes. Fish.—Snoek is still in season ; also pangar, a very nice fish for frying, sold at 8^. per bunch of two or three. This fish is a shiny pink colour and very delicate. Stockfish can also be had occasionally. Cold Fish Salad (Miss Breda’s old Dutch recipe).—A luncheon or supper dish. Take some cold boiled fish, put a layer of it in a pie-dish or salad-bowl, have ready some raw onion, finely cut, sprinkle a little salt over it, pour hot water on the same to take off the raw taste, and drain well immediately; then put a layer of onion between each layer of fish, and also on the top, add a few coriander seeds, pepper and salt to taste, and some vinegar. Let it remain until the next day before using. Snoek Pekelaar Salad is similar to above, but is a hot luncheon or supper dish (Miss Breda’s old Dutch recipe). Snoek pekelaar is the name we give to fillets of snoek ] 42PISH AU GRATIN June 143 slightly salted and sun-dried ; these fillets are most appe- tizing boiled in water, and eaten either cold or hot with a little chilli vinegar. For this salad you take 2 fillets of snoek pekelaar, pick out the bones while hot, on a hot, dish, keeping it warm all the while. Have ready 6 large tomatoes, grilled on the gridiron. Mash up well, carefully removing the peel and any hard pieces. Add to this i tablespoonful of vinegar, a little cayenne pepper, i oz. fresh butter, stirred to a cream, i tablespoonful of Lucca oil, sprinkle some salt over 2 white Spanish onions, cut up in thin slices and pour boiling water on it to remove the roughness of the onion, leave it for a few minutes, then drain. Now mix all the ingredients with the tomatoes. Then arrange the fish nicely. Heat the tomatoes, etc., and pour over the fish. Serve with boiled rice. Fish au Gratin,—The following (Miss Leisching’s) recipe for fish au gratin is good for any medium-sized fish, such as pangar, or haarders (Cape herrings), which are caught on the Muizenberg beach, or “White Stump Nose.'’ After having washed and cleaned any of these fish, put it in a shallow pan or enamelled dish, and cover it with 2 ozs. bread-crumbs, 2 ozs. butter, some chopped onion and parsley, pepper and salt, all well mixed ; put a little as stuffing for the fish, and sprinkle the remainder over. Put it in a warm oven for twenty minutes, and make the following sauce:—The yolk of an egg, a dessertspoonful of Harvey’s sauce, and the same of Worcestershire (or tomato) sauce, a wineglass of sherry and some cayenne pepper; mix all well together. Pour this sauce over the fish, and put it back into the oven for a few minutes. This is very good.SHEEP’S TROTTERS BRAWN Junc 144 June 4.—Meat.—Pork is now in season, and good mutton and beef are always to be had, and Australian meat is also much used.^ A friend, who lives in a charming country farmhouse, wrote the other day to ask if I could suggest any way of cooking sheep’s trotters, for she “never could thifik of any new way, and the worst of it was every sheep had four,” she “wished they were bipeds.” Perhaps she would have agreed with the person in Punch, who wished “ some new animal were invented! ” Every housekeeper, however, knows the difficulty of making variety, so, sympathizing with her, I took some trouble to answer her letter, and am proud to say found four excellent Groote Poste recipes to send her. They were not all new to her, but they are so good I shall record them here. Sheep’s Trotters Brawn.—Take 6 sheep’s trotters, well cleaned and washed, first in warm water to which a pinch of washing soda has been added, and then again in cold water. Joint the trotters, cut up, and boil in an enamelled saucepan, with a good deal of water, till qiiite tender, so that the bones can be removed, and then after extracting the bones, set them to cool. Skim off all the oil to keep (this when clarified is equal to Lucca oil), and put the following ingredients—i blade of mace, i dessertspoonful of salt, about 25 peppercorns, a dessertspoonful of coriander seeds, 4 bay leaves—into a small muslin bag, and let them boil up with the jelly; add half a tumbler of vinegar (or less, according to taste). Let all ^ The cold storage at Woodstock, for which the public are indebted to Mr. Rhodes, will prove a great boon to our growing population ; and, we may hope, will bring the price of mutton down from 8^. and ()d. to td.145 L TROTTERS STEWED, AND IN BATTER Jime boil together. Have ready some porcelain moulds dipped in water, or moistened with vinegar. Garnish the mould with fresh red chillies cut up, a few slices of lemon, parsley, and even a slice or two of beet-root and hard-boiled eggs. If you have any remains of cold tongue, or little sheep’s tongues, it will improve the brawn. Take out the muslin bag and pour the brawn into the mould. Some of the hard-boiled egg, and other garnishings, can be inter- spersed by adding pieces when you have poured a little brawn in, and then adding more brawn over, and so on, so that the egg is imbedded in the brawn. (Two calves’ feet can also be cooked this way equally well.) Stewed Trotters.—Prepare and boil some trotters as for brawn, and in the same way; when quite tender remove the bones and fat. Then stew the trotters with a few slices of onion. The onion may be slightly browned in fat, or it may be put in just as it is, with pepper, a small piece of mace, a dash of grated nutmeg, and thickened with some finely-grated bread-crumbs. (Any pieces of stale white bread, dried in a cool oven and pounded, are most useful for thickening soups, or rolling cutlets or fish in for frying —far nicer than fresh crumbs. They should be kept ready, tightly corked in glass bottles.) To the stewed trotters add, just before serving, the juice of a lemon, whisked up with the yolk of an egg. This dish makes a nice entree, and is inexpensive—half-a-dozen trotters costing 6d. Trotters in Batter.—When you are stewing trotters for brawn, reserve some of the pieces of meat, without the jelly. Dust a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg over each piece. Have ready, meantime, a nice batter (as described p. 72). Fry the pieces of meat in this. It is a nice dish146 June CURRIED TROTTERS. LAPLAND COFFEE for breakfast, or as an entree, and very delicate invalids may eat it and will enjoy it. Curried Trotters.—Curried trotters may be done by adding the following after you have, as before, prepared and boiled the trotters and removed the bones (which can be done the day before)—i tablespoonful of Cartwright’s or other curry-powder, a large onion cut in slices and fried brown, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a dessert- spoonful of very brown sugar. This dish should be served with rice and apple chutney (see Hilda's Where is it, p. 34, for Mrs. Jackson’s recipe). June 5- Coffee, Lapland method.^—Which is the greatest traveller, coffee or tea.? Coffee, I imagine, is found in more out-of-the-way corners of the earth than tea. Anyway it has travelled to Arctic Lapland, where Mr. Hyne tells us he met it under the following circumstances:—“Out of a skin knapsack she (an old herder Lapp woman) had taken a small skin bag. From this she extracted some twelve green coffee-beans, which she proceeded to roast one by one in a small iron spoon, to the accompaniment of vast care and solicitude. When all were cooked to her taste, she bruised them in coarse fragments—and be it well undeistood she did not grind them—between two stones j and put the result with water into a kettle of copper, which had one lid in the usual place, and another on the end of the spout, to keep out smoke and feathery wood ash. “In the kettle the whole mixture was boiled up together into a bubbling broth of coffee fragments and coffee extract. She cleared it by an old trick which is known to ^ Mr. Hyne’s book, Arctic Lapland, from which the extract of Lapp method of making coffee is given by kind permission, is published by A. and C. Black, Soho Square, London.147 , CARAMEL CUSTARD Ju7ie campers all the world over. She put into the kettle a small splash of cold water, and the coffee grounds were promptly precipitated to the bottom. “Then she poured the clear, brown, steaming liquor into a blackened bowl of birch root, and handed it to the good man her husband.” Mr. Hyne adds—“We drank in our turn, and I do not know that I have ever tasted more perfect coffee.” Ju7ie 8.—Caramel Custard (Tillypronie recipe).—This is always such a popular dish that I must include it in the Cape Housekeeper’s favourite recipes. This quantity is to fill a plain mould which would hold a pint and a half. Use only the finest sugar for burning. Cook i tablespoonful of cold water and 4 tablespoonfuls lof icing or castor sugar quickly for about ten minutes over the fire, in the sugar-boiler, but hardly let it brown. Put it into your plain mould and turn it about quickly, so that before it gets quite cold it may adhere to and glaze the bottom and sides of the mould. Do this in the early morning, that it may be set and cold when wanted. For your pudding, break 6 yolks of eggs into a basin and beat, but do not froth them. Have ij pints of warm (but not hot) milk in a pan, and a teacupful of cream, and to sweeten it add a tablespoonful of the same fine sugar to the milk, and flavour with a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, add to the eggs, and give a gentle stir round. Now strain this into the mould you had prepared with the sugar lining, and steam very gently for an hour or longer. When your pudding is ready let it stand aside for five minutes before turning out of the mould. When nearly done have the cover only half on to check the cooling. Should the caramel cream look honey-combed148 Jwie TWO SAVOURIES. GENEVA PASTRY when cut, it shows it has been cooked too fast. If wanted stiff, leave two whites of eggs in with the six yolks. June lo.—Mrs. Blair’s Anchovy Toast.—One often wants a nice little savoury to add to a dinner, and this one, Mrs. Blair s anchovy toast, is easy to do. Beat well 2 yolks of fresh eggs. Add i tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, i dessertspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and a little red pepper. Beat all well together and put into a china-lined saucepan, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and put on the fire—keep stirring until it is boiling—then spread it on well-buttered toast, from which all crusts have been cut away; divide in fingers and serve hot, on a very hot dish. Cheese Savoury (Miss Adeane’s recipe).—This is some- times called “ cheese whitebait,” as the little fried frag- ments are about the size of small whitebait. You will need— I oz. butter. 1 gill water. 2 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. 2 small eggs. Put the butter in a stew-pan with the water and season with pepper and salt. Boil and add the flour—stir this over the fire for four minutes, then mix in the Parmesan cheese and the eggs. Mix all well together. To fry this mixture have a pan of good clear fat boiling ; place in it a wire frying-basket, then press in some of the cheese mixture through a colander into the fat and fry a golden brown. It must be served very hot. Geneva Pastry ' (Tillypronie).—This makes a nice dish, as the paste may be used for sweet apricot sandwiches,149 FOURR^] POLONAIS. PLUM BREAD June or cut with a cutter into little tartlets and filled with jam or preserved fruits. Ingredients— I lb. pounded sugar. 4 lb. flour. 3 ozs. fresh butter (whisked to a cream). Yolks of 3 eggs and well-heaten whites of 6. Having worked your butter to a cream, add the sugar to it, then break in the 3 yolks and beat some time. Now flavour it with a teaspoonful of orange-flower water or the rind of a lemon, or pounded vanilla. Beat up your whites in another basin to a stiff froth, leave them while you mix in your flour, and add the whites last. Place the mixture on a baking sheet and bake in a moderate oven. Fourre Polonais.—Roll pudding is made of the above pastry. As soon as out of the oven, spread rapidly with apricot jam and roll up before it stiffens. When cut across you should see three layers of jam. June 12.—Plum Bread.—For luncheon it is nice some- times to have a loaf of what is richer than bread, and not so rich as cake, and plum bread from Lady Elizabeth Dug- more’s recipe is just what is wanted. Children are very fond of it, and it is excellent to eat, like bread, with butter. I lb. flour. I lb. currants. 6 ozs. sugar, and a small quantity of baking-powder. Bake in a flat tin. (It is best mixed with milk instead of water.) Bout Drops.—No one ever gives or goes to a “ Rout ” now—was it quite the same as an “ At Home ” } The name savours of the people who lived in the days of MissJune ROUT DROPS. PUDDINGS 150 Austen, or earlier; but the benches usually put round a room for a dance are still called “rout seats,” and this old- fashioned recipe for these good little cakes will show that one hundred years ago they appreciated such things as much as we do now. The recipe is from Miss Mein of Sodylt. Mix— 2 lbs. flour with I lb. butter. I lb. sugar. 1 lb. currants. 2 eggs. Large spoonful of orange-flower water. .! „ rose-water. .5 „ sweet raisin wine. » „ brandy. The mixture to be dropped on buttered paper and baked. June 14.—Mrs. Cox’s Hasty Pudding.—For children’s din- ner “ hasty pudding ” is always liked, and the children love to be allowed to add the treacle themselves with a spoon, and try to write their names in the wriggles of sweet brown syrup ! But too often the pudding itself is more like paste, lumpy and dull, and is allowed to get cold before being eaten. The following, if carefully made, is a very good version of hasty pudding, and should not be sent to table till the “ pudding-time ” has come, so as to be quite hot. Put I tablespoonful flour in a basin, mix with it i egg (previously well beaten) and a little milk, to a very smooth paste—no lumps. Then add i pint of boiling milk and a pinch of salt and boil twenty minutes. Serve the treacle in a separate dish. Bread-and-butter Pudding.—Every one knows our old friend bread-and-butter pudding—and very good it is,151 CHEESE PUDDING. SAUCES June especially if the currants at top are not allowed to get hard and black, “ like flies,” as some one called them ! But a good variety is to make the same pudding with bread-and-jam for children ; or for grown-ups to vary it with a sprinkling of cheese (grated Parmesan) on the bread-and-butter instead of currants, ending with a powder- ing of cheese on the top. Mrs. Pike’s Cheese Pudding.—I think all cheese puddings are liked. This recipe will be found especially light and good, and makes a nice savoury. Ingredients—lb. stale bread-crumbs, 4 ozs. grated cheese, pepper and salt to taste, a little cayenne pepper, a piece of butter the size of half a walnut, i egg, and a little warm milk. Put the cheese, bread-crumbs and seasoning in the dish. Beat up the yolk of the egg and mix it with half a teacupful of warm milk, and pour this over the other ingredients, mixing all together in the dish with a fork. Beat the white of the egg to a froth and pour on the top of the pudding, lightly mixing in to the top of the other ingredients. Bake for a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. Miss Wynne says that the secret of the success of plain puddings is their slow cooking. She has them baked two hours with excellent results. June 16.—Sauces.—A change of sauce makes so much variety that I have found it very useful in my copy of Hilda to write in the blank pages after the letter “ S,” any new ideas of sauces or good recipes for old ones. (In fact I do this alphabetically with all other recipes, and only wish sometimes there were more blank pages for writing in.) Celery Sauce.—Here is a nice sauce for boiled chicken : 3 or 4 heads of celery boiled in water and a little salt,June SAUCES CONTINUED rricislicd cHid sddcd to 3.ny wliito seucc. Tho recipe for white sauce I always use is at p. 220, Hilda's Where is it. The green leaves of celery tops are said, by Miss Wynne, to be as nice fried as parsley, and to use in the same way as fried parsley. Apple Sauce. Then for roast pork or roast duck here is a good version of our old friend, “ apple sauce.” Stew 8 or 10 cooking apples (cored) in sufficient water to moisten them to a pulp, add about— tl- oz. butter. I oz. sugar. I teaspoonful of salt. For exact quantity be guided by taste—according to size of apples. Ombersley Sauce.—This sauce is from an old recipe-book belonging to Miss Adeane, in Wales, and was evidently one to keep for flavouring as one might use Worcestershire sauce. 1 oz. cayenne. 2 tablespoonfuls soy (if not disliked). 3 cloves of garlic, pounded. 5 cloves of shallot, pounded. The whole to be well mixed and rubbed through a sieve—if too' hot strain it. After ten days bottle for use. Sauce for Herrings, or Salmon.—This sauce for fish is from the same old book as the,preceding. Tarragon, chervil, parsley and shallots, all chopped fine; add oil and vinegar for herrings. But for salmon add a little lemon-juice and cayenne. Sauce for Hashed Beef.—This recipe is from the same authority, and every one who has struggled to make variety ^52June HASH AND VENISON SAUCES 153 with doing up cold meat will be glad to know of a good sauce for hashed beef. The note on this recipe says, “ Good for venison, beet, mutton, wild-fowl.” I pint clear good gravy. 1 tablespoonful of onion, chopped very fine. A little cayenne. A pinch of salt. 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of port wine (but a later note in the margin says, “wine not recommended”). 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup {or Harvey sauce—do not use both). Boil these, and when boiling put in the meat, cut very thin; turn it three or four times, and in four or five minutes send it to table to be eaten immediately, and not stand. “No flour—no other acid,” is noted as a warning to those who might think of adding to the ingredients. Currant Sauce for Venison (Miss Meinertzhagen’s, from an old recipe).—Boil i ounce of dried currants in half-pint of water a few minutes; then add a small teacupful of bread-crumbs, 6 cloves, and a glass of port wine ; also a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. Banana Salad.—I see I have also against mayonnaise sauce made note—we have not tried it yet, however—of what a friend told me the other day made a good salad, though it sounds very quaint, and that is mayonnaise sauce over slices of banana. She says apples may also be used with mayonnaise sauce. I believe it is a German plan. Though bananas do not ripen with us, we get such quantities brought to the Cape from Natal that we are always glad to know new ways of using them. June^ 19.—Miss Leisching’s Almond Pudding.— 1 haveJune 154 ALMOND AND DATE PUDDINGS to-day got two pudding recipes to add to my collection —one IS Miss Leisching’s almond pudding, from an old recipe, as follows. Ingredients I breakfast-cupful of fine bread-crumbs. I pint of sweet milk. I lb. butter (2 ozs. will do). 200 almonds, blanched and minced (or instead 01 this a cupful of desiccated cocoanut). 5 lb. white sugar. 3 eggs. I oz. candied citron. I teaspoonful of finely-pounded cassia. First you soak the bread in the milk, then beat up the butter, sugar, and yolks of the eggs together; now squeeze the milk out of the bread-crumbs and mix them with the other ingredients and the almonds. Whisk the whites stiffly, and add them, beating all the time. Butter a pudding-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake for three-quarters of an hour, with a buttered paper over the dish. This pudding may be steamed in a mould instead of baked, and in that case should be garnished with slices of citron preserve. Date Pudding.—The second of Miss Leisching’s recipes is date pudding, for which the list of ingredients is as follows I lb. stoned dates. I lb. chopped suet, with some salt. I lb. sugar. 1 cup of bread-crumbs. lb. flour. 2 eggs.155 A USE FOR DATE-STONES June i cup of milk. I teaspoonful of mixed ginger and cassia (that is, outer bark of cinnamon) pounded. I wineglass of brandy. “ Mix all these as you would a plum pudding,” the recipe says, “ and pack in a buttered mould ; the pudding should be boiled three hours, and served with ordinary pudding sauce.” (For latter, the one at p. 216 in Hildas Where is it will do.) Use of Dates in Arabia.—Mrs. Theodore Bent, in her book on Southern Arabia, gives a curious account of the use there madfe of dates, which I have her kind permission to quote. She says, “When ripe the dates are put into a round tank, called the madibash^ where they are exposed to the sun and air, and throw off ex- cessive juice, which collects below. After three days of this treatment they are removed and packed for exporta- tion in baskets of palm leaves. The Bahreini, for their own consumption, love to add sesame seeds to their dates, or ginger-powder and walnuts pressed with them into jars. These are called sirah, and are originally prepared by being dried in the sun and protected at night; then diluted date juice is poured over them. “ The fruit which does not reach maturity is called salang, and is given as food to cattle, boiled with ground date-stones and fish-bones. This makes an excellent cake for milch cows ; this and the green dates also are given to donkeys, and to this food the Bahreini attribute their great superiority. The very poor also make an exceedingly unpalatable dish out of green dates mixed with fish for their own table. “A man on a journey in those parts,” Mrs. Bent says,June DATE AND ORANGE SALAD “ requires no food but a skin of dates, which will last him for days ; a delightfully simple commissariat.” Date and Orange Salad.—A nice fruit salad is of oranges, sliced (pips taken out), and stewed dates, with a syrup of orange-juice over both.It ■ ’5ul^ A Winter Month.—July is cold and wet and decidedly a whiter month. One must go on wearing winter clothing and not leave off flannel underwear. July 2.—Fruit,—Fruit is the same as in June. Oranges are more plentiful now, though still very acid. (Cape people often eat salt with a sour orange.) Guavas are also plentiful. Oranges and Lemons.—Both orange and lemon trees were planted by the early colonists wherever they made a garden, every old farm had its large garden, well fenced round and planted with peach trees, orange trees, saffron pears, and fig trees. Even in the Transvaal every farmhouse has its orange trees. The fruit is not affected by frost, blossoming in September. The fruit matures and grows all through the summer months, and is only perfectly ripe in August and September, taking almost a year to mature. Oranges are sold in June and July, but are very sour, not being quite ripe and sweet till August and September. The “ Dor- thesia,” a blight which was a terrible scourge, and entirely destroyed the leaves and made the tree look quite black, has been quite conquered by the small “ ladybird insect,” introduced by Mr. Rudd of Fernwood ; he had them in- cubated in large quantities, and any one who wished to l6l M162 July “DORTHBSIA.” CAPE GOOSEBERRY JAM have the ladybirds could get them on applying to his gar- dener, with such good results that now there is not a dor- thesia to be seen, and orange groves are flourishing. On many farms in the Eastern Province the orange crop is sold for £/\oo or ;^500- The prices for flne oranges in Cape Town range from one to two shillings the dozen. I trust soon they will be less expensive, as they are being planted largely now wherever they will thrive. Some of the old orange groves were splendid. Cape Gooseberries.— Those who have Cape goose- berry bushes, and have trailed them over a fence (where they like best to grow), can now by picking the ripe ones every day and collecting them for a week make a nice jar of jam, i lb. of gooseberries making a nice quantity ; and for afternoon tea I don’t know anything that is more appreciated by visitors from England, or nicer to send home. Cape Gooseberry Jam.—If you have, as suggested, col- lected the ripe gooseberries (the pods turn yellow when ripe), they may even be kept for lo days till you have 3 or 4 lbs. for a cooking. Shell them, and give one prick with a steel pin. Wash if dusty, then put the fruit in an enamelled or copper saucepan rubbed with olive oil, add just enough water to moisten the gooseberries, and set it to boil pretty briskly for 7 or 10 minutes, then add the sugar (equal to weight of fruit) ; let it boil for another 10 or 15 minutes. Test if it is good by dishing a little in a saucer and letting it cool ; if the syrup has a crinkly or creamy surface it is right, and the syrup must be oily and thick. This jam will keep very well, and is one of our best Cape jams. Unfortunately the “Red Spider,” as it is called, attacks the gooseberry bushes, and163 LEMON JAM. ROSES. PISH, etc. July often spoils all the fruit; dusting profusely with sulphur is supposed to be a remedy for it. Lemon Jam.—Lemons are plentiful in July, and make an excellent jam, for which there is a recipe in Hilda's Whei'e is it, p. 140. Vegetables.—Carrots, turnips, cabbages, cauliflowers, and sweet potatoes are in season. July 4.—Planting Rose trees.—Last time we planted roses I ordered a dozen rose trees from Messrs. Gowie, Grahams- town, and was not disappointed. I also got garden seeds from them, and I have never had such lovely carnations as I had from seeds I got and sowed last July. The colours are lovely, and most of them are double; as to their phlox, they were perfectly lovely! July 5.—Fish.—Among the fish in season in July is “Roman,” a beautiful fish in form and colour, being a bright cactus red with a dark-blue mark across the nose. The flesh is white and firm. This fish is generally sold for li-. 6d. each, being very choice and excellent for boiling or frying. “ Galjeon ” is another favourite dish with people at the Cape—the flesh is greyish. The skin of this fish when alive is brilliant with all the colours of the rainbow ; it is caught with a bait of grey mullet. They cost is. or is. 6d. each. July 8.—To Cook an Old Hen.—Here is an extract of G ’s last letter to me which is worth recording— “You will be amused to hear that this week I had to decide how best to cook an old hen! for you know zve never keep any except young birds ourselves. But I was staying with A , who is not very experienced about poultry, and had advised her to weed out some of the old birds. SoJuly TO COOK AN OLD HEN 164 she said she would, if I could make anything really eatable out of them—a hard condition, but I did my best ; and fortunately remembering a good recipe of Miss Anderson’s, the result was so successful you may care to know what we did, for I remember your recipe for making soup of them. (Soup a la Reine, Hilda!s Where is it, p. 229.) “ As the weather was cool we let the bird hang for a few days after it was killed and cleaned, and then washed it well, skinned and jointed it. We had ready an earthen- ware jar with a lid, and into this jar we put the meat with a spoonful of butter, a few blades of mace, some pepper- corns, and allspice, these spices being all tied up in a bit of muslin, and of course taken out before serving. We also put into the jar a large white onion, cut in at the top, a few spoonfuls of vermicelli (or sago would do), and a teacupful or more of cold water. “The jar was then set in the stove for four or five hours, and we repeated this next day for about the same time, adding a little stock when necessary. When the meat was nice and tender we took it out and put it on a heated entree- dish, and kept it warm while we beat up the yolk of an egg with the juice of a lemon and stirred this into the gravy, let it get to boiling-pitch, then quickly poured it over the meat in the entree-dish and sent it to table. This way of cooking an old fowl is the best I know. The skin and feet and head properly cleaned are a good addition to the stock-pot.” Neapolitan Chicken.—I can cap G ’s recipe with another nice way of doing a fowl that is too old to roast. This (Mrs. Cloete’s recipe) we call Neapolitan Chicken a la R6n6. First parboil it till tender. Then take off the skin and165 CHEESE PUDDING- AND STRAWS July cut the bird into nice pieces (the bones can be added to the stock-pot). Have ready a puree made in the following way. Take these ingredients— 6 large tomatoes (if not in season use canned ones). Half a clove of garlic. A few sweet herbs. An onion cut up and fried in dripping. A teaspoonful of brown sugar, and the same of salt. An oz. of butter or dripping. A strip of lemon-peel. Boil all this till the tomatoes are soft, and then press all through the colander and put back into the enamelled saucepan ; lay the cut-up fowl in this and let it simmer (but not boil) for an hour. Stand it on the coolest side of the stove to keep warm till wanted, and serve as an entree, with boiled rice. Cold Lamb.—A dish of any remains of cold lamb done in the above way is very good also. July 13.—Cheese Pudding.—To-day I found we had a I lb. of grated cheese over that wanted using, so we had this cheese pudding (Mrs. Deney’s recipe) for dinner, which has the merit of not taking long to make, so is easily added to the menu if an unexpected guest arrives. Beat the following all well together— I lb. grated cheese. (Dutch sweet-milk cheese is best for this.) I egg. I teacupful of milk. A pat of butter. An eggspoonful of salt and a little cayenne pepper. Put in a small pie-dish and bake a quarter of an hour. Parmesan Cheese Straws.—Here is another way of using aJuly ORANGtB jam. TEA-CAKBS 166 small quantity of Parmesan. Beat up i egg and mix thoroughly with 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese, the same weight of flour and butter, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne ; knead well. Roll out once, evenly, with a rolling-pin, and cut into even-sized strips. Carefully place each strip, without bi caking, on a baking tin which you have pre- viously greased, and bake the " straws ” to a light golden colour. July 17. Orange Jam.—Now that oranges are getting more plentiful I shall as soon as possible make some orange jam (from Mrs. Burrel’s recipe), for which I shall need 12 oranges, 3 lemons, 9 pints of water, 10 lbs. sugar. You make the jam as follows— Cut up the oranges and lemons in thin slices, being caieful to take out all the seeds. Pour the water on the cut-up fruit and let it stand 24 hours. The next day boil it for i| hours, then add the sugar and boil until the syrup is jellied. July 19.—I see on looking back at my last year’s diary that this day last year, when we had a party for little F ’s birthday, among other cakes, etc., for tea we had two kinds of almond cakes, some lemon biscuits, and some little drop tea-cakes, of which the description in my book is marked specially, “ This recipe is very good!' So I think I cannot do better than write out all three recipes for the benefit of other people who have birthdays. Tea-cakes.—I will begin with the little drop tea-cakes. P'or this you will need— -I lb. butter. ' 3 ozs. flour. 3 eggs. ^ lb. sifted or rolled sugar.TWO ALMOND CAKES July 167 1 oz. almonds, bleached and pounded, 20 drops of vanilla essence to flavour. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar next, and then the yolks of the eggs. Beat all well together. Now add the flour and other ingredients, keeping to the last the whites of the eggs well whisked. Drop little drops of the mixture on buttered paper and bake in a slow oven. Almond Cake, No. 1 (Miss Breda’s).—Ingredients— -J- lb. sweet almonds and 15 bitter almonds, all blanched and well minced. , ^ lb. flour. lb, of finely-sifted white sugar. 6 eggs, of which you beat the whites and yolks separately. Mix in the following order—first the yolks with the sugar, then add the almonds, lastly the whites and flour alternately. Butter the mould well and dust with fine flour, or dried bread-crumbs finely pounded, put buttered paper over the top. Bake the cake one hour in a slow oven as you do sponge-cake. Almond Cake, No. 2.—The other almond cake requires— 3 cupfuls of flour. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 2 well-beaten eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh butter. I cup of milk. 30 sweet almonds. 10 drops of essence of almonds. teaspoonful of soda. I teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Mix and bake ingredients same as almond cake No. i.July LEMON BISCUITS. LIMPET SOUP Lemon Biscuits.—The lemon biscuits are always favourites of ours. They should not be made in a great quantity at a time, as they are best eaten quite fresh. I lb. flour. I lb. butter. 1 lb. sugar. 2 lemons. 2 eggs. The flour should be well dried and slightly heated, then rub the butter into it, then mix in the sugar and the peel of the lemons grated. Beat the eggs well and add to the juice of the lemon. Stir the whole together and knead well; roll out the paste thin, cut it into shapes and bake to a light- brown on a tin. July 21.—Periwinkle or Limpet Soup,—H tells me they made a very good soup of periwinkles lately, when at the seaside, from Mrs. Cloete s (of Alphen) recipe, using the black periwinkles which have a pink edge, which are in season in the winter months, and are taken from the rocks below low tide mark. Of these they collected half a bucketful, and put them in fresh water for about half-an- hour so as to get rid of any sand, etc. (The fresh water kills them.) They also scraped the shells quite clean of all smaller shellfish, sea-weed, etc., and washed them again in clean water. Then the shells were well pounded in a mortar, before putting in a cooking-pot, covering with water and boiling for stock. When all the strength was boiled out the liquid was strained through a coarse linen cloth, and to it was added good beef or mutton stock in the proportion of one cup to every three of the peri- winkle broth. A couple of onions had been boiled in the meat stock before it was strained. One dozen peppercorns i68169 . COFFEE ICING. BREAD-PUDDING July same of allspice, one tablespoonful of flour, and same, of burnt sugar were added to the mixed stocks. Lastly it was poured into a tureen into which a good tumbler of wine had been put, and served up with sippets of toast. People by the seaside may like to try this nourishing soup. Jtily 24.—Coffee Icing.—I have to-day been given this good recipe. Work together 5 ozs. of icing sugar with 2 ozs. of fresh butter; to this add i-| tablespoonfuls of essence of coffee, or coffee made very strong; let it cool before adding to the butter and sugar. Spread this mixture evenly on the cake ; do not cut till wanted. I believe a plain flat sponge-cake is best, and I shall try it for tea to-morrow. The coffee essence we use for picnics {Hildas Where is it, p. 36) would do. Baked Bread-pudding.—H also sends me a very old German recipe for a baked bread-pudding, which she describes as follows. Soak some slices of bread in a pint of milk and three eggs, beaten together. When well moistened fry in a pan with butter. Meanwhile boil in a saucepan a tumbler of light wine, half a cup of stoned raisins, twenty-five blanched almonds, cut in strips, a small cup of sugar, and some pounded cassia (outer bark of cinnamon). Boil all this well. Lay the fried bread when ready in a dish and pour this sauce over it, and serve hot or cold. Jtdy 28.—Stuffing for Duck, Turkey, and Goose.—Memo, the following are good stuffings for— Duck.—Boil the gizzards and liver till tender, and chop them up very finely, mixing with them bread-crumbs, sage, onion, pepper, salt, and a little butter.July STUFFING FOR TURKEY AND GOOSE Turkey.—Bread-crumbs, butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt and thyme. Chestnut stuffing is also very good,’ or a stuffing of sausage-meat. Goose.—Half-a-dozen potatoes boiled and mashed; add butter, sliced onion, pepper, and salt. 170 * - ■VII • 3 w r I Pi .aT •fe*-' - - ✓ 1t> >. b .Ai175 Hucjust August and Cold Days.—Though properly speaking the first of our spring months, August is often the coldest time of the year, so winter clothing is still necessary. - Vegetables.—To. the vegetables which were in season in July .may now be added green peas, broad beans, and spinach—all popular ones ! Fruits.—Oranges, bananas (which make such good fritters), and pineapples from Natal. Guavas, Seville or bitter oranges are now in season, which make excellent marmalade, for which a recipe was given in Hilda's Where is it, p. 140, and others in this book. Banana Pudding.—In Pollok’s Reminiscences of India is the following recipe for banana pudding (copied by kind per- mission of the publisher, E. Arnold). There are not too many recipes available for cooking bananas. Take some plantains, have them 'fried in their skins ; when done you must peel and cut the fruit in slices; add sugar to taste, and the juice of two or three limes (.? would lemons or oranges do as well), and the peel of one cut into small thin pieces ; add also a glass of white wine, half a tea- spoonful of pounded cloves, with a little butter. Make a paste as for apple pudding, and put this mixture in it, and boil. Cream, or lemon and sugar with butter is a great improvement (.? as a sauce).176 PINEAPPLES AND GRENADILLAS Pineapple Fritters.—With so many pineapples now coming from Natal, we can have pineapple fritters for ciinner to-day from a recipe in the same book as above. Pare and core a pineapple; cut it into slices and stew them with a little water, sugar, and lemon-peel. When soft, add a little white wine and the juice of half a lime, with a bit of butter. When cold, make a batter of 3 spoonfuls of fine flour, 2 spoonfuls of cream, a glass of white wine, some sugar, and 4 eggs. Beat it all very well together. Put a little butter into a frying-pan, throw the fruit into the batter you made, and taking it out in spoon- fuls, fry them one by one in the butter to a nice light- brown. Put them on a sieve before the fire to dry, and serve hot, with plenty of pounded sugar over them on a white napkin. To Preserve Pineapples (Miss Frances Cloete’s recipe).— Meiely peel and slice them and let them preserve in very thin syrup ^ for several hours. A lemon or two squeezed into the preserve shortly before it zs done improves it very much. August 3.—Green Grenadilla Preserve.—Green grenadillas (a species of passion-flower well known in Natal, the Eastern Piovince, the Paarl, etc.) make a very good preserve as follows. Take about fifty grenadillas when the peel is still soft, cut a cross at one end, and scrape or peel very thinly. Take about a tablespoonful of lime and mix with cold water; lay the fruit in a deep bowl, cover with this lime water for one night; then for a night in fresh water. The third day boil in fresh water, to which a tablespoonful of salt has been added to make it rather brackish—boiling for ^ Syrup made of sugar the same weight as fruit, as for all preserves.177 N FISH. GARDENING. PORK A?/ir. o about ten minutes till you can easily pierce the fruit with a reed or straw. When the grenadillas have thus been parboiled, and are quite soft, put them for a few minutes in very cold water while preparing the syrup, which is made as follows. To 6 lbs. sugar for every 50 grenadillas, put 6 cups of water; boil up and skim. When the syrup is clear let it cool; then take the grenadillas (having first well drained them) and lay them in this syrup for the night. Next day boil gently till the syrup thickens, taking care not to let the fruit boil to a pulp. The fruit should be thinly pared before preserving them. N.B.—All preserves shotdd be boiled very gently. Fish in season in August are galjeon, “ Roman,” stock- fish, and mackerel. Gardening.—It is impossible in this little book to go into detail about gardening, though I hope some day to put together some consecutive notes of my own experience ; but any one who loves flowers will find a means of growing them, even if they have to use half paraffin tins, painted, and with holes for draining. The loveliest plants have been grown in such makeshift gardens. “ Love is the best compost for flowers,” as Elizabeth says in her German Garden ; and one’s own instinct leads one to put a plant in the aspect it likes best to grow in. Miss Jekyll’s books will give many suggestions, though the conditions of gardening are so different here (Wall and Water Gardens, etc.). Pork is very good now, and veal; poultry is very scarce in winter; but we hope that soon the much- neglected poultry farming will become a very thriving industry. Mutton and beef fairly good all the year round,178 A COOKING BEE Jug. but much fatter during the months of September, October, November, and December, as the pasturage is much more luxuriant then in the Western Province. August 4.—A Cooking Bee.—The nieces and young cousins are very fond of a cooking bee, so, as we had some extra cooking in prospect, I suggested they should come and help me make the things we had promised to send to the luncheon to be given to-morrow to the Missionary Conference visitors. Our contribution was to be—2 Swiss rolls, a lady cake, an orange jelly, a fairy cream, a lemon sago, and a sago and pontac shape. The cousins bargained that if they helped us we should give them scones for tea, and modestly added that for luncheon they should like a beefsteak pie, a German tart, and macaroni cheese, a somewhat odd combination, but their own selection. I give the recipes for all below. All preliminaries having been settled, they arrived early, and having donned their pretty, if not very business-like aprons, tucked up their sleeves and set to work—and a very merry day we had, and some very successful cooking, of which I will record the recipes. I insisted that all the cleaning up of pots and pans, as well as the more interesting preparations, and cooking itself, should be done by my amateur kitchen-maids, for I think people do not always realize how long all the cleaning and tidily putting away takes, when the real cooking is over. The scones were greatly appreciated when tea-time came, and the only regret was that more had not been made; while at luncheon the beefsteak pie and German tart and the macaroni cheese disappeared like magic.179 BEEFSTEAK PIE. GEEMAN TART Beefsteak Pie. The crust for this was the same as we used for the German tart, so we made the double quantity at once. The ingredients are as follows— 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. I spoonful of butter. I spoonful of ox-marrow or lard. I teaspoonful of Royal baking-powder. A little salt. I egg- Rub the butter and marrow into the flour, beat up well with a knife after adding the egg and a few spoonfuls of water. If eggs are scarce, mix with water and milk instead. The meat for the pie, if for three or four people, is i lb. Australian steak. I find that washing this meat with warm water, and then wiping quickly, thaws it nicely. Cut the steak in pieces four inches square and hammer it well, or beat with the blunt side of the kitchen knife, then lay it for half-mi-hour in some milk—this seems to give back to the meat all the flavour it had lost, and makes it very tender. Roll the pieces of meat in flour, pepper, and salt mixed, and a few slices of onion. Stew it in the pie-dish on the stove for a quarter of an hour—now put over it the crust prepared as above, and bake for an hour on the floor of the oven. German Tart.—For the German tart—Mrs. Smith’s from Graaf Reinet—after the crust, made as above, but with sugar, was rolled out, we lined an open tart-tin with it, and then it was filled with jam and baked on the floor of the stove oven for half-an-hour or more so that the crust got thoroughly done. I am told a treacle tart is good180 ^Jug. MACARONI CHEESE. SCONES this way, and with strips or stars of pastry laid in the treacle. Macaroni Cheese.—This is a very nice savoury dish (Miss Le Sueur’s recipe). Pour boiling water on 2 ozs. maca- roni. Let it soak for half-an-hour. Set a pint of milk to boil, and stir into it gently the soaked macaroni, letting it boil till the macaroni is soft and all the milk is absorbed. Then stir in 3 ozs. grated cheese, some cayenne pepper, mustard, and oz. or more of butter. Put it into a pie- dish, sprinkle grated cheese over all, and bake a light brown. Serve ve7y hot. Scones.—Take lb. self-raising flour, ^ tablespoonful of sugar, 2 ozs. or less of butter, and a pinch of salt. Rub the flour and butter well together, then mix with a knife into half a cup of cold water. If you can spare milk use that instead, and in that case you will want less butter. Beat well with a knife for a few minutes, and roll out and stamp into round shape with a wineglass. Put them on to baking-tins and bake in a warm oven as for pastry. (The proper thing for baking scones is a “ girdle,” i. e. a round, flat sheet of iron with a handle from side to side like a kettle’s to hang over an open fire.) Swiss Roll, No. 1.—As we had promised two Swiss rolls, we took a different recipe for each. No. i (Mrs. Brook- Smith’s) was as follows. Ingredients— I tumbler flour. 1 tumbler white rolled sugar, tumbler milk, 2 eggs. ^ teaspoonful soda. I teaspoonful cream of tartar. Beat up the sugar and eggs together, then add the flour,181 SWISS ROLL. LADY CAKE A^^g. mix the soda and cream of tartar in the milk and add it quickly to the flour. Bake in a buttered tin fifteen minutes. Sugar the baking-board. Then turn it out, spread it quickly with jam and roll up quickly. It keeps its shape if rolled up when hot. Swiss Roll, No. 2.—hor the other one you want 3 eggs, 3 ozs. flour, and the same of rolled sugar, i teaspoonful baking-powder. Beat the eggs and sugar together, then mix the flour with the baking-powder and add to it. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking-dish and bake eight or ten minutes. Turn out on a sugared board, spread with any kind of jam and roll quickly into shape. August 10. Lady Cake.—Lady cake is an American recipe (Mrs. Mitchell’s) for a very excellent cake, and requires lb. butter, f lb. rolled white sugar, i lb. self- raising flour, the whites of 4 eggs, and i cup of lukewarm water; a lemon. (But if you are out of self-raising flour use ordinary flour, but add 2 teaspoonfuls Royal baking- powder, this latter to be added just before the last whites of eggs are put in.) Beat the butter to a cream and gradually add the sugar, then, slowly beating all the time, add the cup of lukewarm water ; then take half the quantity of flour and stir it in, beating vigorously. Meanwhile the whites of the 4 eggs have been beaten to a stiff froth, and half of them is now added to the butter, after that the remaining half of the flour, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and lastly the rest of the whites of the eggs. Stir all well and bake in a moderately warm oven. Atigust 13.—Orange Jelly.—This and the following orange recipe were both German (Mrs. Carl Becker’s recipes) ; and182 Aug. ORANGE JELLY. FAIRY CREAM as oranges are still too acid to be really enjoyable un- cooked, one is very glad to have both these recipes. For orange jelly you want 4 eggs, 6 sheets of white tianspaient gelatine, 2 sheets of red—this combination gives the jelly a lovely colour (but if you cannot* get that, a 6d. packet of gelatine will do)—i small cupful of sifted sugar, the juice of 4 oranges, strained, and the rind of one orange this should be peeled off very thin and put into a jug with boiling water for a few minutes to draw out the flavour before usine. Soak the gelatine in cold water, just covering the sheets for a quarter of an hour; then pour on the soaked gelatine the water in which the orange-peel was soaked. Whisk the yolks of the 4 eggs with the sifted sugar for a quarter of an hour, then add the juice of the 4 oranges—continue to whisk well—then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and lastly the dissolved gelatine. Stir all well, pour into a cold wet porcelain mould over-night (or if made to be eaten the same day, set it on ice till wanted). Serve with whipped cream or rich custard. Fairy Cream or Orange Pudding.—For this take i oz. gela- tine soaked in cold, and then dissolved in half a teacupful of boiling water, 6 ozs. sifted or rolled sugar, some grated orange-peel, i tumbler of white wine, the juice of 6 oranges (strained), i breakfast-cup of cream. The wine, gelatine, and sugar are first boiled together, and the orange-juice added when boiling. It is then removed from the fire. When it is nearly cold, but before it stiffens, add the cream beaten to a stiff froth, then pour it into a wetted porcelain mould to cool. Lemon Sago.—One of the Army Nursing Sisters, Sister O’Ryan, gave me this recipe for lemon sago. Take half a183 SAG-O AND PONTAC SHAPE Az^g. teacupful of sago and 2 teacupfuls of boiling water. Stir over the fire till clear; if too thick add a little more water. Add the juice of 2 lemons and the grated rind, and sweeten with golden syrup. Garnish the mould with slices of lemon, pour in the mixture, and add a layer of slices on the top. Sago and Pontac Shape.—Mrs. Clayton’s recipe for sago and pontac shape is as follows. Take a cupful of sago and boil in sufficient water to make it clear. Sweeten with a cup of sugar and stir in a glass of pontac. Put in a mould to cool. August 24.—Plower-holder.—I must note down how prettily S arranged the flowers for luncheon. There was a large old blue-and-white bowl, so wide for its depth that it was difficult to make the flowers stand in it. She quickly twisted some coarse wire about till it resembled a large ball—with one flat side on which it stood—of large open meshes. K said it looked like a battered old muzzle, which well describes it. This was laid in the bowl, and the stalks of the flowers held by the network of meshes so that they stood out beautifully, as well as the light grass and maidenhair-fern leaves. We shall always keep this mesh netting for placing in our big bowl in future. It has the same sort of result as the strips of lead the Japanese use to hold long-stalked flowers in position in a shallow bowl.' "A’' ' f. -' ' % '' I .V ’T I 1^' * ~ ^ '• « i ii i .'J ■7.Va'Ai\ NSeptembei* September 2.—Flowery September.—September is a lovely spring month, and the whole country is a flower-garden in the western or rather south-western part of the Cape Colony. Its beauties can hardly be realized unless experienced by a trip to Malmesbury, Saldanah Bay, Darling, and Tulbagh. In ordinarily good seasons the whole country round for miles is perfectly fragrant with number- less wild flowers. So many people say the flowers at the Cape have no scent, but there are so many that have ! The purple “ Africander ” for one, and the brown Africander is most deliciously sweet, a kind of gladiolus, I think, and the avond bloemtjes and the creeping protea, which smells like apricots, and very many with very strong scent which only smell sweet after sunset—by day you would say they had no scent. There is a flower very like an attenuated geranium, the leaves creep along the ground and the flower is on a long stalk—local name, Beer- blom. It has the sweetest scent you could imagine. It is not beautiful to look at, but one in a room fills it with a sweet perfume. There is a blue baviana growing very close to the ground, one of our earliest spring flowers, also very sweetly scented. i8g190 Sept. CAPE WILD FLOWERS Just now the hill-sides at Simonstown, and all along the slopes of the Constantia hills, are tinted pink with the lovely pink watsonia, which also emits a sweet odour. The white gladiolus, which has now become quite common, and is so exquisitely pure and white, was accidentally dis- covered by Mr. MacIntyre on his farm in Caledon. One single white flower, growing among the pink and mauve- coloured ones. He thought it was a freak of nature, but carefully took up the bulb and transplanted it, taking great care of it; the result was that in a few years it had increased to such an extent that now almost every garden in the Cape Peninsula has these lovely graceful flowers growing in clusters. Then there are very many with aromatic-scented leaves ; all the wild geraniums on Table Mountain, and the quaint little “ Kommitje Tee-water” (little cup of tea), with its pink-and-white flower that looks as though it were made of china, and many others. All who love wild flowers should come to our Cape Colony in September and October. I should like them to see the wild crimson nemesias, which we used to get on our drive to the Berg river; and the pink and creamy ones on the ground which slopes to the sea near Groote Poste ; also the crimson droseras (sundews), between Groote Poste and Berg river. In September the ground is literally carpeted with end- less varieties of gazanias—local name, Gousbloom. All shades of yellow and orange, and a porcelain-looking white one with outer petals tinted with blue. These commonest of flowers are nevertheless very pretty. Then we have the endless varieties of mesembryanthemums, from the tiniest little ones creeping along the ground to the gorgeous scarlet and purples. These mesembryanthemums are191 VEGETABLES. BRAISED LETTUCE SepL found every where, even in the barren Karroo ; and later on in October and November there is a white variety from which the bees gather delicious honey. This variety grows at Berg river, and other districts near the sea. The bavianas, dark-blue with crimson centres, and light- yellow, and at Tulbagh bright crimson ones, grow in all the moist paits. Ixia local name, Calossie—is another lovely wild flower of which there are endless varieties in South Afiica. One of the prettiest is the green ixia j it would take too long to tell all the shades of colour in which they are found. As a friend of ours just arrived from England said. One cannot believe that all these flowers are wild, but think they must have strayed out of some one’s con- servatory.” As I write I am sitting by my bedroom window 3-t Wynberg, and before me is my sweet little flower- garden, with its borders of violets and beds of stock so fragrant , and all the lovely oaks with their fresh green leaves, and bloomdng peach and pear trees, so pretty! Truly this spring-time is a glorious season full of promise and hope. September 5.—Kitcheii-garden.—Vegetables.—This month peas, broad beans, potatoes, parsnips, cabbages, spinach, and lettuce are plentiful. Braised Lettuces.—We have so many lettuces now in the garden that it is difficult to keep ahead of them and find use for them before they run to seed. Wash the lettuces well and boil them two minutes, then take them up and place in a pan of cold water. Drain off all the v/ater and place them in a Yorkshire-pudding tin, with bacon top and bottom, onions and carrots, and a bay leaf.192 Sept. FRUIT. PISH. BREAKFAST DISHES Cover with paper and bake one hour. Dish up with good gravy. Fruits.—Of fruits we have oranges, naartjes (like Tangerine or Malta oranges with a loose skin), guavas, and still there come pineapples and bananas plentifully from Natal. Pineapples can be made into jam just as you would peaches or any other fruit. It would be too expensive to make it in our Cape Colony, but in Natal, where they grow in quantities, it is a delicious jam. September 6.—Fish.—The best fish now is “Steenbrass” {Lithognathiis capensis), a very large fish, excellent when not full-grown either boiled, fried, baked, or made into pickled fish. “ Stockfish ” is also in season, and “ Roman,” “Hottentot fish” {^Sargus capensis), and “ Elft.” How curious the names must sound to new-comers ! To do up Cold Fish for Breakfast.—One has often to find some nice way of doing up remains of cold fish or cold meat. The following (Miss Capper’s recipe) makes a very nice breakfast dish. There was part of a fish left over from yesterday’s dinner, so we cut it in neat pieces and steeped them for an hour or two in a mixture of lemon-juice, salad oil, pepper, and salt. They were then dipped in batter and fried a rich brown in plenty of boiling lard (ox-marrow would do as well), and served up very hot. Another Breakfast Dish.—Here is another breakfast dish. This time it was some slices of cold boiled bacon that would otherwise have been wasted. These were sprinkled with bread-crumbs and fried, and served hot. September 7.—I find in the larder we now have the remains of a ham—not enough left to look well at table, so I shall divide it and use it for two different dishes, as193 o TO USB UP HAM. RICE BALLS Sept. follows :—The first will be nice for luncheon, and is done so— To do up Cold Ham.—Take pieces of both fat and lean and pound in a mortar (or pass through a mincing-machine), add to them i slice of white bread boiled in half-a-pint of milk and i egg well beaten, mix all and bake in a mould. Potted Ham.—The other recipe (Miss Gapper’s) will make some nice sandwiches for our picnic to-morrow. Take any remains of ham, trim off all the dry pieces and pass it through a mincing-machine, adding pepper and a dash of grated nutmeg, and pound all well in a mortar; pack tightly into small pots and pour melted butter over the top. If you have any cold chicken at the same time it can be added to the ham. Corned beef or tongue may be potted in the same way. September lo.—Rice Balls of Cold Chicken.—Before I for- get it I shall .note down another way of doing up cold meat. The first (Miss Gapper’s) is for cold chicken, and though rather troublesome to make is very nice for a small dish for luncheon or for breakfast, so is worth the trouble. Besides the remains of chicken you will want | lb. rice, i quart of stock or white broth, and 2 ozs. butter. Wash the rice well, and set the stock to boil, add the rice and let it boil gently for half-an-hour. Now add the butter and let it simmer till the rice is dry and soft, then set the rice to get cold. Mince the cold chicken very fine, flavour with lemon-peel, pepper and salt, half a teaspoonful of sugar and a little butter. Shape the rice in balls, then hollow out the inside and fill with chicken, then cover the hole with the rice, dip the balls in egg, sprinkle with fine bread-crumbs, and fry a light-brown in boiling fat. It is possible that this would be quicker done by pressing194 Sept. THICK MILK PUDDINGS. MOCK TURTLE the rice into two large spoons, leaving the centre hollow and joining together after putting in the chicken. I have never tried it; the shape would be more egg-shape than round. Sour Milk.—This is such a useful item in housekeeping I find it a very good plan to keep a jug into which I put any small quantity of milk over from tea, etc., and so there’s always some thick milk for puddings, scones, or fritters. Thick Milk Pudding.— 2- lb. fine flour. About a cupful of fine bread-crumbs. I oz. melted butter. I egg, whisked. \ teaspoonful of soda, I wineglass of brandy. A tablespoonful of any jam you fancy. Mix all, adding a breakfast-cupful of thick milk in as much as would make it the consistency of batter, and boil in a mould two hours. Serve with pudding sauce. (See Hilda!s Where is it, p. 216.) The following good recipe is rather different. Thick Milk Pudding, No. 2 (Miss Breda’s).— 4 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 5 lb. white sugar. I teacupful of “ thick milk.” ^ lb. butter. Mix by beating eggs separately, mix yolks with sugar and butter, then flour and sour milk, lastly the whites; boil in a mould for two hours, serve with cinnamon and sugar, or any pudding sauce. September 15.—Mock Turtle Ragout.—We have to-day been sent a calf’s head from J ’s farm, and as B has a195 PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS Sept. great dislike to its coming up to table in the shape in which the calf wore it, I decided we would cook it German fashion (Mrs. Carl Becker’s recipe), as “ mock turtle ragout.” This is a dish which may be served with mushrooms or truffles, and so done makes a very nice entree. The recipe says— Boil a nicely-cleaned calf’s head in water, add to it some salt, 20 peppercorns, a few bay leaves, and a white onion. Boil for three hours, or until quite tender, and see that the bones can easily be removed. Cut the meat into square pieces. Now make a sauce in a frying-pan by taking 2 ozs. butter, let the butter get brown in the pan, then add a tablespoonful of flour and stir it about till it is nice and smooth ; add to this a cupful of the stock in which the meat was boiled, add also a wineglass of sherry, and some cayenne pepper. Let this gravy get quite boiling hot, then put the squares of meat in it before serving. Should we not do well to consider the pecuniary and sanitary, to say nothing of the moral advantage, of kind- ness to animals killed for food ? The little leaflets published by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to A nimals have much struck me, and by kind permission of the Society I print some of their papers in the Appendix, describing how to kill calves, rabbits, and poultry with least pain to the creatures. I reproduce the directions in hope of sparing suffering to the animals. September 17.—Our near neighbours the M s are going into Cape Town with us to-morrow to a concert, and as we shall have to start too early for dinner, we have sug- gested having a “ high tea ” before going, and a cold supper, but with hot soup, on our return. Besides the usual cold things, I have decided to have a Dutch herring salad, a savoury of eggs, and the cold fruit pudding, which follows.196 Sep. HERRING SALAD. PENGUIN EGGS Dutch Herring Salad.—For the Dutch herring salad (Mrs. Spence’s recipe) take— 3 salted herrings. I large Spanish onion. A tablespoonful of chopped parsley. I hard-boiled egg, separating yolk from white. Soak the herrings in cold water for a night, then boil for five minutes and separate the fish from the bones. Cut the onion in thin slices, pour boiling water and salt over them to take off the roughness of the onion, drain it off and strain, mix the fish and onion together with some salad oil, pepper, and vinegar. Garnish the dish with chopped parsley and hard-boiled eggs (white chopped and yolk crumbled), and beet-root cut in slices and stamped out with a cutter, arranged prettily in a pattern on the top of the salad. Penguin Egg Savoury.—The savoury will be a very nice one, made of hard-boiled penguin eggs mashed very fine, add a little piece of butter, some anchovy paste, a little cayenne and salt, and spread on hot buttered toast. Pen- guin eggs are brought in quantities from a small island on the West Coast, and are plentiful in June, July, and August. Fruit Pudding.—The cold fruit pudding is one we often have for Sunday supper. Boil I lb. of any kind of fruit—apples, quinces, plums, etc. —to a pulp, and sweeten to taste. When cold add a very little butter, and four well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould well and sift into "it a thick layer of bread-crumbs, pour the fruit gently into the mould so as not to disturb the crust of crumbs, then cover the top of the mould with a layer of crumbs half-an-inch thick. Bake for an hour in a moderate oven, and turn out when cold. This is Mrs. E. Eksteen’s recipe.197 “BLIND HARE.” A NICE GRAVY Sept. September 19.—“Blind Hare” (Mrs. Becker’s).—Take— li lbs. steak finely minced (mutton will do). 2 slices of stale bread, soak in milk and squeeze dry. 8 cloves, finely pounded, and a few coriander seeds. 2 egg-spoon of ground pepper. Some salt. A dash of nutmeg, oz. butter or dripping. A very thin slice of onion, minced. The yolk of an egg. Mix all these ingredients well together, and shape the mixture into a little roll, bake in an enamelled dish in which you have put some good dripping ; and before put- ting in the oven, cut thin strips of bacon and lay it in this way on the top of the mince, this imparts a very nice flavour to the meat. It takes about one hour and a quarter to bake in a good oven. Serve with the gravy formed in the dish when baking, to which add a little stock and cream, if you have it, and just let it boil up, then serve. It is also very nice to eat cold, cut in thin slices, and is excellent for picnics. A Nice Gravy.—This is a good gravy for mutton, beef, game, or poultry. When the roast is well done, remove some of the fat from the brown sauce in the baking-dish, add a cup of thick cream (or half a cup of milk with a tea- spoonful of maizena stirred into it), mix it with the brown gravy, put into the baking-pan with a spoonful of good dripping; stir about till it boils, then add a little cream, and stir all well over a quick fire to brown, but not burn. All the recipes I have got lately seem to be German !198 Sept. MAYONNAISE. ST. LUCIA PUDDING September 21.—Mayonnaise Sauce (Mrs. Becker s).—Here is a German recipe for mayonnaise sauce. The yolk of one hard-boiled egg mashed very fine, add to it the yolks of 2 raw eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls of best Lucca oil, the oil to be added drop by drop, stirring con- stantly one way until quite thick; to this add 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper, salt, mustard, and a little pinch of sugar and of cayenne. St.Lucia Pudding.—A nice pudding which requires no eggs. I teacupful of flour. I teacupful of bread-crumbs. I small cup of minced suet. I small cup of Scotch marmalade or apricot jam. I cup milk. I teaspoon ful of salt. I large teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix the baking-powder with the flour, then add in all the ingredients mixed well, and lastly the milk. Boil in a greased bowl three hours. Serve with a good pudding sauce. September 28.—Tortoises.—The eatable tortoises are at their best in September and October. We used to get them from Saldanah Bay. The tortoise is most nourishing, and scalloped with bread-crumbs, butter and lemon and salt, is most appetizing. Their eggs taste very like hens’ eggs. The coloured people have wonderful faith in the restora- tive powers of the tortoise. A recipe for tortoise soup is in Appendix, among home remedies. Tortoises have been known to live for six months with- out food or water. At Groote Poste one was forgotten by mistake in a seed-basket, which was hung on a beam in the loft from June till April, and when found was still alivp, and had probably hibernated all that time.t Ir x‘ / ■ . A L . - -, ' <*- t *■ ■ ' ./■ * y-/w* r: '. ^ •.' ** i' MhiT' *v\ ! .> • > * --. feifcwv:: ■-■\ ■'t,203 ©ctobei* October 2.—A most enjoyable month.—October, like Sep- tember, is a most enjoyable month, and flowers abound, and the oaks with their fresh leaves make the Cape Peninsula perfectly lovely. Many varieties of heath are brought in from the country districts. Fruit.—Strawberries come into season, but not plentifully. Loquats, oranges, naartjes, etc., are to be had much the same as in September. October 3.—Nut Cake (Miss Le Sueur’s).— i|- breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 eggs. 1 tea-cupful of milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 2 tea-cupfuls of fine flour. I cupful of walnuts, crushed with a rolling-pin or chopped. Mix the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the eggs, well beaten, then the milk. Mix the baking-powder with the flour and stir in gently, lastly the walnuts. Stir all well and put into a well-buttered mould and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Walnuts, hickory-nuts, and butter-nuts are best, but other nuts will do.Oct. 204 LEMON CUEDS. TEA POE PEENS Lemon Curds (Mrs. Fellows’).— I'I lbs. sugar. 6 ozs, butter, fresh. 8 eggs. The rind and juice of 4 lemons. Tut sugar, butter, eggs, the grated rind and the juice of the lemons, carefully strained, into a bright saucepan, stir all over the fire till it looks like honey and just boiling, put into small jars and keep in a cool place. This is most delicious in layer' cakes, or what we call Victoria sandwiches, and also lemon cheese-cake, Tea to Water Ferns.—Ferns much appreciate an occasional watering with weak tea ! (I am told roses like it too.) Save up the remains of the day, it is most excellent for maidenhair-fern. I have them in the mother-of-pearl shells in veiy little soil standing on saucers in our drawing-room, where they thrive splendidly on weak tea ! Sunflower Seeds.—Here is a London newspaper cutting which suggests a new industry for the colony, and quite a picturesque one ! How nice a sunflower farm sounds ! a real Zonnebloem. “ Sunflowers breed almost as fast as rabbits ; one healthy plant will seed a whole Clapham back-garden in a very short time. The suburban resident has, therefore, a very promising mine of wealth at his command ; for it appears from the report of our Consul-General at Odessa that there is now a tremendous demand for sunflower seeds in Russia. Not only do they produce oil, but they are the chestnuts or hokey-pokey of the Russian streets, bought off hawkers and consumed with relish by the populace as are the other delicacies in England. The demand has become so great that Russia no longer exports sunflowerFISH SCALLOP. A SUPPER DISH Oct. 205 seeds, but is demanding them from other countries. Hence the suburban Londoner’s chance. Besides, the Consul-General says that they should he grown plentifully in British East Africa and other colonies^—Pall Mall Gazette., October 8, 1900. I have heard that the seeds are also useful to feed chickens, and for oilcake. October 5.—An Impromptu Supper.—Unexpected guests stayed to supper last night, and not having had notice enough to get anything on purpose, I had to think what I could make of the cold meat in the house, and the remains of some boiled fish. The latter I scalloped from this recipe (Mrs. Honey’s). Fish Scallop.—Break up some boiled fish into small pieces, have ready about the same proportion of fine bread- crumbs (of these 1 always keep some ready grated in an air-tight bottle for emergencies). Season the fish with pepper, salt, a dash of nutmeg, a spoonful of chopped parsley, and a few drops of anchovy sauce, and moisten with a little melted butter and some of the fish-jelly which sometimes collects in the dish the fish has stood in. Butter some patty-pans or scallop-shells. Divide the mixture into equal quantities for each shell or tin ; put some bread-crumbs into each tin, then the fish mixture, and cover that again with crumbs, and on the top of each shell or tin when so filled put a little pat of butter. Bake in a quick oven to a light brown; lay the shells on a napkin on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. A Supper Dish made from Cold Meat.—The cold meat was ? converted into the following. (For this any remains of cold meat, fowl, lamb, or beef will do.) Mince the meat finely and flavour with lemon-peel,Oct. A GOOD SPONGE-CAKE 206 pepper, a dash of nutmeg, and a suspicion of finely- chopped onion ; add a few pats of butter. Pour boiling water over 2 ozs. macaroni, and let it get quite soft, and boil for a few minutes. Now put a layer of mince at the bottom of a pie-dish into which you have put a small piece of butter ; then a layer of macaroni cut into pieces ; then a layer of ripe tomatoes (as they are not in season now, I had this time to use canned tomatoes), with a sprinkling of salt, cayenne, or black pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Repeat this process layer on layer till the dish is full, and bake in a quick oven. Then, very fortunately for dessert, I had in the house a good pineapple and a newly-made sponge-cake, from the recipe given below, some oranges and some little biscuits, so we did very well. Eggs are very plentiful in October, and every house-- keeper knows the value of a good sponge-cake ! This recipe seldom fails. A Good Sponge-cake.—Seven eggs, their weight in sugar, and the weight of 3 in flour (I am told potato-flour, for which is a recipe in Mrs. Acton’s People's Cookery, makes the lightest sponge-cakes), juice of i lemon, and a pinch of salt. Carefully break the eggs, and whisk the whites and yolks separately. Use castor-sugar (if it is not at hand, roll the sugar on your pastry-board till fine); the flour should be slightly warmed ; have the mould ready, well buttered and dusted with finely-pounded biscuit. Mix the sugar with the stiffly-whisked whites, next add the yolks, and then the flour and lemon-juice. Pour the mixture into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven one hour, putting a buttered paper over the mould. Put the cake for baking at the bottom of the stove-oven, and don'tFISH PIE. PASTRY Oct. 207 open the door for half-an-hour or more after putting it in. Be earefid not to slam the oven-door^ or the cake will go down. I have read somewhere that the way confectioners get a smooth outside to their sponge-cakes is by (after greasing the mould) dusting the inside of the mould with fine sugar and flour in equal quantities, before pouring in the mixture. Fish Pie.— Remains of cold fish. 2 onions fried in dripping. Pepper. Salt. Mustard. I oz. butter. Tomato sauce. Mashed potatoes. Eggs. Break the fish in nice little pieces, mix well with onion, butter, seasoning, and some mashed potatoes. In the tomato season slices of raw tomato in between are very nice. Pack the fish in a dish with a spoonful of butter or dripping at the bottom, then mash the potatoes with a little butter, and pack on the top of the fish; brush over with an egg before baking. A few hard-boiled eggs mixed with the fish would be a great improvement, and some of the gravy formed in the fish-dish. October 7.—Pastry.—One is always wanting pastry of different sorts, so I have been collecting good recipes for various kinds and writing them all together under P in my copy of Hilda!s Where is it., so as to know where to find them at once. Here they are.Oct. 208 SHORT CRUST. CHEESE-CAKES Short Crust.—The first is for short crust, and requires— I egg. 6 ozs. flour. 4 ozs. butter. I oz. sugar. I lemon. A little salt. You rub the flour, butter, salt and sugar well together. Break the yolk of the eggs in the mixture, add a large spoonful of cold water to the juice of the lemon, and beat all well together with a knife for a few minutes. Roll it out several times and set it to rest for a few moments. This is a very nice pastry for lemon cheese-cakes. You roll out the pastry very thin and line twelve patty-pans, and fill them with the following mixture. Lemon Cheese-cakes.—Put the yolk of an egg in a basin and stir it round with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, add ozs. castor-sugar, and stir till light and creamy, then add the grated rind of a lemon and i tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Stir well and mix with half-an-ounce of fine biscuit-crumbs. Then stir in the stiffly-whipped white of the egg lightly. After filling the patty-pans with the mixture bake them in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. • Serve cold. An Old-fashioned Sweetmeat.—The same short crust will also do for the following old-fashioned sweetmeat. Have ready a mixture made of the following— 50 unblanched almonds minced through a mincing- machine. 1 oz. finely-shred citron preserve. 2 ozs. sifted sugar. ^ teaspoonful of finely-pounded cinnamon. Mix all .with the well-whisked white of an egg. Roll outPASTRY FOR PIES AND PUDDINGS Oct. 209 p the pastry thinly, and cut it in lengths of four inches by three. Put a teaspoonful of this mixture in each square of pastry and roll up as you would a roly-poly, and twist round to form a ring. Brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a quick oven. Cup Paste.—“ Cup paste ” for fruit or meat pies, so called because of the measure used, is made as follows:—One large cup of flour and the same of milk, and one cup of butter (or half butter and half ox-marrow or lard). Mix the butter - with the flour dry, now ivith a knife beat up with the milk for a few minutes and spread over the pie-dish filled with fruit or meat, and bake very crisp and nice. Paste for Roly-poly, Apple, or Beef-steak Pudding.—^The paste for boiled roly-poly is made with suet, so :—Six ozs. flour, 2 ozs. suet (or f lb. flour and ^ lb. suet), half teaspoonful of salt, and a small teaspoonful of baking-powder, with cold water enough to make a tolerably stiff paste. For roly- poly roll out the crust very thinly, and spread with quince jam or marmalade. Wet the edges to make them adhere and roll up. Have ready a narrow cloth dipped in hot water, and well dusted with flour; put the roly-poly in the middle, and fold round once, and sew together with a needle and thread, tying up the endssecurely with thread also. Put it into boiling water and boil at least three hours. [All cooks should be very careful where they keep such things as needles and thread, pins, etc. Never have any loose in the dress or lying about, but keep safely in a box for when wanted, and always put away when done with. Pins should never be used for cake-frills, etc., needle and thread is better.] “ Good Daughter’s Christinas Pudding.”—A nice variety of roly-poly. You make the crust as before, but instead ofOct. PASTRY AGAIN using jam you sprinkle over the crust 2 tablespoonfuls of currants, 2 of chopped apples, and 2 of moist sugar, a little mixed spice of cinnamon, cloves and mixed almonds. This should be boiled two hours. Or for the same dish the following light pastry can be used. Light Pastry.— 1 lb. flour, lb. butter. 2 ozs. lard. A little salt, and cold water enough to mix. Rub the lard into the flour, mix with cold water rather stiffly. Roll out as thinly as you can, and spread all the butter on as you would bread-and-butter. Now fold the paste in 3 one way and 3 the other way, so you have 9 folds altogether with layers of butter between. Always roll from you, not from side to side; roll lightly and effectually, giving the paste a push from you so that it gets longer and longer. Now fold again in 3 and roll out straight from you. Again fold in 3 and roll. It is nowN ready for use. Always take the finest flour for pasUy^ because it is most starchy and makes the lightest pastry. Keep the butter as cool as you can, this insures success. Paste for Meat Pies, Patties, and Sausage-roll.—The same paste does for meat pies, meat patties, and sausage-rolls. With small or large meat pies never forget to leave a hole to let out the air—it is most poisonous and dangerous not to do so. In making sausage-rolls parboil the sausage - and cut it in half lengthways, about 3 inches long. Roll in the paste and brush over with egg, and see that the oven is hot; a cool oven spoils pastry ! Pastry Lining for Baked Custard Pudding.—The trimmingsOct. BAKED CUSTARD. KIDNEYS of the paste which remain over from the crust of a fruit pie I generally use up by rolling it out to line a pie-dish, in which I am going to make a baked custard, buttering the hollow of the dish and damping the sides to make the paste adhere ; it should go well down the sides. We want the ctistavd solid! and the paste is to absorb the super- fluous liquid ; and as the crust is not to be eaten, it is not of consequence if it is sodden. Baked Custard.—Four yolks of egg to a pint of milk give a very good pudding—a plainer one can be made of two whole eggs instead, but the pudding will lose creaminess and richness. Put the milk on the fiie with a little spoonful of sugar, one inch stick of cinnamon (or a little vanilla bean), and some lemon-peel. Bring nearly to a boil; beat the eggs well and stir into the hot milk, and strain into the pie-dish lined with the paste. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour, and let it stand till cold. October 8. A Dish for “High Tea.”—So many people are fond of the meal known as “ high tea,” that this recipe for mashed potatoes and kidneys may be worth noting. One must remember, howevei, that to very many people the mix- ture of actual tea and meat is most indigestible, and these latter may prefer a jug of hot cocoa to take the place of the teapot, as the tannin of the tea is believed to have the effect of turning the meat practically to leather. Well- made cocoa is very good, instead of tea, but must be served very hot. Kidneys.—For mashed potatoes and kidneys (my own recipe), you boil about six potatoes till quite soft, and then mash them, adding a little pepper, a dusting ofOct. MENUS AND INDIGESTION nutmeg, a little piece of butter, a few spoonfuls of milk, and a beaten-up egg, and bake in a pie-dish. Try some kidneys slowly with a little pepper and salt and a spoonful of dripping, and serve in an entrde-dish or flat dish. Put spoonfuls of potato in a ring all round, and put some gravy over the kidneys. This dish of kidneys would also do for breakfast. “Another Man’s Poison.”—Regarding digestibleness, the housekeeper should always remember that the old proverb, “ one man’s meat is another man’s poison,” is literally true, so she must provide for the health of those she is catering for, to suit individual requirements. For instance, I know a lady who cannot touch anything with egg in it, which has always been a great trouble to her, especially if staying with friends who have not arranged to make puddings and cakes without eggs ! But as the result of taking even a small quantity of egg was to make her swell all over, it was obviously poison to her. Another person—a man this time—could not touch anything with cocoanut in it; but he himself only recognized the difficulty when staying in Ceylon, where they put cocoanut in some form into almost every dish. He could not at first imagine what should have caused the sudden feeling of illness—of choking—as though his throat were closed and he could not breathe; but proved eventually that it was cocoanut which was poison to him. Again, a lady I heard of used to faint if she ate but one strawberry 1 And the papers lately mentioned a man who was poisoned if he ate as much as three grains of rice. I imagine these varieties of suitableness are far greater than we imagine, and, of course, such sympathies and antipathies must be borne in mind in menus.NEAPOLITAN LEG- OP MUTTON Oct. 213 October lo.—Burnt Almonds, always popular at the Cape, are made in this way. Boil about i lb. sugar (white or brown) in a cup of water till it sugars, put in a pinch of Armenian bohl (which gives the rich reddy-brown colour), some pounded cinnamon. Dip the almonds in this mixture and let it cool. October 13.—“What! another leg of mutton!” said B to-day, when she saw the butcher bringing it in. However, when it came to table she greatly approved of it—dressed so differently to its predecessors. Neapolitan Leg of Mutton.—It is a great thing if the same dish can be made not only to taste, but to look different, for in food, I think, we all like variety. Here is the recipe for the “ Neapolitan leg of mutton ” (my own recipe). It weighed 6^ lbs. Bone the leg of mutton and stuff it with a well-mixed stuffing made of bread-crumbs, suet, sweet herbs flavoured with nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a suspicion of onion. Fill with the stuffing the cavity out of which the bone has been taken and sew it up. Stew the leg with a quart of water with two large onions put in whole with just a slit at one end, and a few blades of mace and some allspice. About an hour before dinner soak some macaroni, pouring boiling water on it, and add to the liquid in the pot in which the leg of mutton is stewing. Add the juice of a lemon or a glass of light wine, with the yolk of an egg beaten up well, to the gravy when boiling, just before serving; but it must not boil after adding these ingredients, but be at once removed from the fire. Serve the mutton on a very hot dish, with the onions and macaroni arranged round. This dish takes 2\ hours to cook. October 20.—Stewed Chops.—To-day we had part of aOct. 214 CHOPS. QUAIL PIE. POLONIES neck of mutton to use up, and we tried stewed chops from my own recipe. These are prepared first by beating them with the blunt edge of a knife, and then laying them in a little milk for a few minutes. Next lay them in a flat stewing-pot, not deep saucepan, sprinkle over them a few thin slices of onion, fried a nice light-brown, some salt, pepper, a dash of nut- meg, a layer of fine bread-crumbs ; repeat layers, same order. Cover close and let it stew gently for half-an-hour, shake the saucepan, add half a cup of stock or water, and let it stew gently for half-an-hour more. Serve as entree. A Luxurious Q,uail Pie.—As quails are very plentiful in October and November at the Cape, this recipe is worth remembering (I see in Hilda!s Where is it I have only mentioned about cooking them in a baking-pot, or having them as a curry); it is called “A Luxurious Quail Pie.” You should have 12 quails, and 2 lbs. steak. ‘'Put a spoonful of pate de foie gras inside each bird,” says the recipe, but if that is not at hand, we use other rich but not strong-flavoured stuffing. Wrap each bird in a thin slice of bacon. Add a smalhtin of truffles, half a bottle of black Worces- tershire mushrooms, 6 hard-boiled eggs, each cut in half, and some Worcester sauce—fill in with rich stock. Cover with a good crust and bake sloivly. Polonies.—For breakfast, or for sandwiches, picnics, etc., polonies are very useful. They are made as follows:—12 lbs. beef, 2 lbs. fat (beef fat can be used ; at the Cape we use the fat of the Cape sheep cut into very small dice—it will keep for months if smoked or dried), pepper, nutmeg, salt, coriander seeds, and 2 ozs. little saltpetre. Mince and flavour to taste, and put into sausage-bags215 FILLET DE ROMANO. SARDINE SAVOURY Oct. procured from the butcher (or, if on a farm, use the ox-guts well cleaned). Tie up in quarter-yard lengths, and hang in the smoke for a day—boil them the next day for about lo minutes, and then hang in a dry place. They will keep for months. Fillet de Romano.—Mrs. Honey’s recipe for Fillets de Romano is very good—i-^ lbs. of under-cut of beef, cut into little fillets and fried as you would steak. They should be stacked neatly in the dish when done, and the following sauce poured over them. Sauce.—One cup of any good stock, the yolk of 2 eggs, a little pepper, salt, cayenne, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a little lemon-juice, and some chopped parsley, all well mixed. Let the stock boil, and beat up the yolks with some lemon and add to the boiling stock as you would make thin custard. October 29.—Sardine Savoury.—Sometimes one wants a little savoury that is quickly made. Here is one of sardines. Bone the sardines, and halve. Fry in a small omelet-pan with a mixture of the oil in the tin, cayenne, and anchovy sauce. Or bake in a hot oven and serve on toast hot.NI V f . k-V*.' - \ ■ . V A i. t '...»'•• • . . ' h /. ‘ i' *•., r' ■IRopember High Summer.—November and December are summer months, and the days are long and rather hot. Muslins and white dresses can be worn. No one need despair of having flowers in South Africa— that is, if they love them. Every tin may be used if well perforated and drained with small stones and gravel or cinders, and filled with a soil made up of mould and decayed refuse, etc., sifted. Supposing people even live in the Karroo, or in any dry place, still they can have a sheltered corner and grow geraniums, begonias in their immense variety, so easily grown from cuttings and seeds, and, as with everything we set our hearts on, we find out by ex- perience what is best, for often the same method will not succeed throughout an area of a hundred miles. Much has to be learnt by observation and local experience and experiment. November 8,—Vegetables.—Vegetables are abundant; peas, beans, marrows, carrots, and cucumbers are plentiful. Cucumber or Marrow Soup.—A vegetable soupis very whole- some, and marrow and cucumber make a nice puree for soup. Peel a large cucumber and lay it in cold water for half- an-hour (throw away the water). Cut the cucumber into pieces about an inch thick, and put the pieces in a sauce-PRESERVED MARROW Nov. sufficient for 4 lbs. vegetable-marrow. pan with salt, pepper, an onion, a sprig of parsley, and about 2 quarts of good stock, either of veal, mutton, or an old fowl. Simmer till the cucumber is tender, and then strain through a colander or sieve. Fry, without broivning, I oz. of butter and i oz. flour, and pour on this some of the cucumber puree. Mix all together, stirring till it boils, then add some milk to make the soup the right consistency. Just before serving add the yolk of an egg, a little lemon- juice, and a spoonful of cream. Have ready some dice of cucumber which have been boiled in salted water till tender, and serve in the soup. Marrow maybe used same way. November lo.—Preserved Marrow.—One often runs out of jams at this time. Preserved vegetable-marrow, according to an old English recipe (Miss Higham’s), is excellent, and easily made now when marrows are plentiful. Pare the vegetable-marrow, and scoop out all the soft seedy part, and cut the marrow into pieces about i inch thick. Lay these in a pan of cold water with a teaspoonful of salt, and let it remain two days, changing the zvater daily. Wipe the pieces dry, and to every pound of marrow add ij lbs. sugar, i oz. whole ginger (cracked), and the juice of a lemon and the peel cut very thinly. Put all the ingredients except half of the sugar into a preserving-pan with I teacupful of water, and i drachm of saffron tied in a muslin bag (this is taken away when the preserve is sufficiently yellow) ; boil ij hours, throw it up and cover, and let it remain till next day. Then boil again, adding the remainder of the sugar, for i i hours. The saffron is best steeped in a jar with a little water, and a tiny pinch of citric acid before using—it draws out the colour, and uses less saffron, half a drachm being,MINCE-MEAT FOR CHRISTMAS Nov. 223 November 15.—Preparation for Christmas.—With a view to Christmas festivities we must prepare the traditional mince- pies and plum-pudding, however hot the weather may be, and these are usually prepared six weeks beforehand. Many people in the Colonies are sent plum-puddings now-a-days straight from home, and it is astonishing to learn in these days of quick posts how many go out to the Cape, to Canada, to Australia, and China, and India. I am told that London confectioners annually send thousands to the Colonies. We must, however, record some good recipes for those of us who are not likely to receive such solid Christmas presents, and I think we may promise ourselves good mince-meat and plum-pudding if we carefully follow these recipes of Mrs. Mitchison’s (we make ours beginning of December). Mince-meat.— I lb. suet. I lb. currants. I lb. apples. \ lb. mixed candied peel. I lb. sugar. I nutmeg, grated. I- teaspoonful mixed spice. The peel and juice of a lemon. A teaspoonful of salt. Chop the suet fine; wash and pick the currants, stone the raisins and mince them, peel and core the apples and mince or chop them up, cut up the candied peel, grate the nutmeg and the peel of the lemon, then add sugar and spice and mix the whole well together. Put the mixture into jars, pressing it down as closely as possible to exclude the air, and cover with brandied paper.Nov. MINCE-PIE. PLUM-PUDDING- 224 Mince-pie.—Make a puff paste and line some patty-pans with it, and fill these with mince-meat and cover with some more of the paste, making a hole in the top crust to let the steam escape. Moisten the edges of the paste and press them tightly together to prevent the mince-meat from coming out at the sides in baking. Bake about half- an-hour in a quick oven. November 20.—We are still busy with Christmas fare ; here is a— Rich Plum-pudding.—This is an excellent recipe (Mrs. Brady’s) for a rich plum-pudding—i lb. bread-crumbs, same weight of raisins and also of currants, of suet, of .sugar, of chopped apples, f lb. almonds, ^ lb. mixed candied peel, half a nutmeg grated, i teaspoonful grated ginger, ^ tea- spoonful of mixed spice, 6 eggs, i wineglass brandy, I teaspoonful salt. Stone the raisins, wash and pick the currants, chop up the suet and apples, crumb or grate the bread, which must be stale, cut up the candied peel fine, whisk the eggs. Mix all thoroughly well together, and boil in a buttered mould, tied up in a floured cloth, for six hours. Serve with a rich custard. To use up cold remains, .squares of this in batter make a nice fritter. Plain Plnm-pudding.—Then here is a plain plum- pudding— 4 eggs. I glass of milk. 1 wineglass of brandy. 4 teaspoonful of salt. 2 ozs. almonds. I lemon. ^ lb. moist sugar. I lb. flour.ANCIENT HISTORY OP PARKIN Nov. 225 Q -4- lb. bread-crumbs. 5 lb. mixed peel, lb. beef suet, lb. sultanas, teaspoonful of soda. Rub the flour, salt, and suet well together, then add bread- crumbs, currants, raisins, peel, and sugar, and beat up the eggs and stir well, adding the brandy last. Boil in a floured cloth or in a mould for four or five hours. No^e.—As this book is passing through the press an interesting article appears in the Globe of November 2, 1901, on “ Parkin,” which is mentioned at p. 72 of this book (there spelt Parkyn). The following extract (by kind permission of the editor of the Globe) will interest both cooks and antiquaries— Parkin is a kind of oatmeal-gingerbread, which is still made and eaten, chiefly in Lancashire and the West Riding of Yorkshire, but also in Staffordshire, in the early days of November. The earlier name of parkin, thar-cake, shows clearly the origin of the term, for “tharf” comes from an Anglo-Saxon word which means unleavened. . . . There is no doubt that parkin was originally one of the many forms of soul-cakes or soul-mass-cakes, which were made and eaten on November 2, All Souls Day. Parkin is only one of various local names. In Cleveland “ saumas loaves,” that is, soul-mass loaves, are made, and in general all such dainties were known as “soul-cakes.” In Shropshire, Cheshire, and farther north, on November 2, village children still often go “ a-souling,” singing rhymes which ask for cakes, apples, ale, or money. ... In years gone by the correct things to give to those who came “ souling ” were, of course, the “ soul-cakes ” specially madeNov. ANCIENT HISTORY OP PARKIN 226 for All Souls Day. Farmers used to make quantities of these cakes to give away. Miss Burne prints the following recipe for the genuine old Shropshire soul-cake, as given by the family of a lady who kept up the old custom till her death in 1884 :—“ Three lbs. flour, | lb. butter (or \ lb. if the cakes are to be extra rich), \ lb. sugar, 2 spoonfuls of yeast, 2 eggs, allspice to taste, and sufficient new milk to make it into a light paste. Put the mixture (without the sugar or spice) to rise before the fire for half-an-hour, then add the sugar, and allspice enough to flavour it well; make into rather flat buns, and bake.” This was clearly a more luxurious cake than parkin, which consists chiefly of oat- meal, treacle, and ginger. . . . Throughout Italy, Sicily, and Sardinia, various kinds of sweets and confectionery are eaten on All Souls Day, November 2. One curious mixture, made in Sardinia, consists of almonds, nuts, and walnuts, bruised and mixed with sugar and grape-juice, forming a kind of stiff paste, which suggests our northern parkin. A strange practice connected with these Italian sweetmeats on November 2 is that the folk who eat them on that night are accustomed ^ to leave a dish of them on the table when they go to bed, for the delectation of the ghosts of the departed, who, on the.night of All Souls, will be abroad and will revisit their old haunts. There can be no doubt . . . that the parkin, and the “ saumas ” loaves, and the soul-cakes, still eaten or given to children, are simply survivals of the ancient belief, although no maker nor eater of parkin now-a-days ever thinks of any connection between the cake and the souls of the dead.—Globe, November 2, 1901.• V. X ■'*- ^December December 3.—Fruit—The Cape Midsummer Day is in December, so we shall not be surprised that we can eat strawberries out of doors on Christmas Day ; we also still have loquats—a delicious fruit—and we shall have black- berries late in December, and some of our eariy peas. December g.—Apricots.—In December apricots come in, and about Christmas-time they are plentiful, being brought from the country districts and sold at is. 6d. per hundred. So it is wise to get a good supply of apricot jam and mebos made. Green apricots also make a delicious preserve (foi recipes, see Hildas Where is it, pp. 4, 140^ PP- ^73-4)- December 12.—Rice Cream and Apricots.—This recipe is specially marked “very good,” and would be a nice suppei dish, or whenever a cold sweet is wanted. Wash, dry, and pound lb. rice. Boil it in a pint of new milk, with a little isinglass, lemon-peel, and sugar. When nearly cold mix with it half a pint of thick cieam whipped. Pour it into a ring mould to set. Before serving put in the centre and round the cream some apricots in syrup, or black currant or damson juice would be excellent. Green Fig Preserve.—But of all our Cape preserves I think green fig is the best. The green figs are ripe m November and December. This is how we make the pre-6 lbs. sugar. Dec. GREEN PIG PRESERVE. GINGER-BEER serve (from Mrs. Cloete’s, of Alphen, recipe). Take, say lOO green figs, which should weigh about 4 lbs.—if you can get the “white fig” it needs no peeling or scraping. Lay them for a night in a basin, sprinkle a handful of salt on the figs and cover them with cold water, keeping a plate ovei the figs to prevent them from drifting. The next day throw away the water and boil the figs in clean boiling ivater (letting the water boil before you put in the figs). When the figs are soft enough to be pierced with a leed, take them out and throiv them into veiy cold tvater for a minute, and let it drain through the colander. Have leady a syrup made of 6 lbs. of sugar to every 4 lbs. of figs, boil and strain it, and let the figs lie in the syrup for a night. Then the next day preserve them very slowly, it should take about four or five hours. Dry sugar (taking about two cups less of water than of sugar) may be used equally successfully, but the syrup is the oldest and perhaps the safest way. In the dry sugar way the figs aftei being drained are put in the copper preserving-pan and covered with sugar and a few cups of water only, and then boiled very slowly four hours with closed lid. Bottle the figs boiling hot, as you do preserved fruit, in caiefully washed and dried “ Hazel jars.” « The test as to whether the preserve is good is to put a little of the syrup on a flat plate, and if it ripples and looks creamy it is ready. (See also p. 64.) December 15.—Ginger-beer.—For the hot weather and for picnics we shall be very glad of ginger-beer, for which I add two recipes. Ginger-beer, No. 1 (Mrs. Lowndes’).— 6 gallons of water.Dec. DRINKS FOR THE HARVEST FIELD 233 6 lemons. 6 ozs. stick ginger. I oz. cream-of-tartar. A tablespoonful of yeast. Cut the lemon in slices, and put in i gallon of the water. Boil the ginger for ten minutes, then add the rest of the water, sugar, cream-of-tartar, and yeast. Let it stand 24 hours, with a cloth over it, and then bottle. Ginger-beer, No. 2.— 7 lbs. white sugar. , 1 lb. bruised ginger. 2 ozs. cream-of-tartar. 2 ozs. tartaric acid. Boil the sugar and ginger with about as much water as will fill an anker {i. e. 6 or 7 gallons). When cold mix the cream-of-tartar and tartaric or citric acid in a cup and stir it well. Let all stand three or four days, then bottle. In a week’s time it will be fit for use. The recipes published by the Church of England Temper- ance Society will be useful for the hot days of heavy work when people feel specially thirsty. I have their kind per- mission to print from the card they issue. I am sure many will like to try the recipe for their labourers. “SOMETHING TO DRINK IN THE HAY AND HARVEST FIELD. “ In hot summer weather ‘ something to drink ’ is the constant cry. Fathers and brothers returning from the hay or harvest field, from the cricket-field, from school, or from shop will be sure to ask for ‘ something to drink! ’ “ Stokos is the best drink for hard work—it is very strengthening, easily made, and cheap. Put | lb. or moreDRINKS FOR HOT WEATHER Dec. 234 of oatmeal ground as fine as flour, about 6 ozs. loaf- sugar, half a lemon cut into thin slices (pips should be picked out), into a pan ; mix altogether with a little warm water into the substance of cream, then add a gallon of boiling water; stir thoroughly ; use hot or cold. The lemon may be omitted, or any other flavouring may be used instead. Costs '^d. a gallon. “ Cokos is a good nourishing drink, made as follows : 6 ozs. sugar, 4 ozs. good fine ground oatmeal, 4 ozs.'cocoa, mixed into a thin batter ; then add a gallon of boiling water; take to the field in a stone jar. Costs i\d. a quart. “ Hopkos.—Boil I oz. hops and | oz. ginger (bruised) in li gallons of water for 25 minutes; add f lb. of white or of best brown sugar, and boil ten minutes more, then strain and bottle while hot, or put it into a cask ; it will be ready for drinking when cold. It should be kept in a cool place. Dried horehound may be used instead of hops. Costs 3/^. a gallon. iox present use.—Put i lb. white sugar, i oz. cream-of-tartar, and two lemons cut in slices (or a teaspoon- ful of essence of lemon), in a large jug, and pour over all 3 quarts of boiling water. This is a very cooling drink, and costs about 2d. a quart. “ It is quite a mistake to suppose that beer or spirits give strength. They may give a spurt to a man, but that quickly goes off; and spurts in hard heavy work, too often made, certainly lessen the working powers,” Barley Water.—For hot weather barley water is delicious. (This particular recipe is an especially good one.) Peel 4 or 6 lemons ; boil them in a pint of water with lb. sugar added. Take 2 ozs. pearl barley, wash and boil in a pint of water. Repeat this process again. The waterDec. 235 CHRISTMAS PICNICS used for these two washings and boilings is to be thrown away. Finally mix the whole ingredients, barley, lemon, and sugar, with \ pint of fresh boiling water. Strain the liquid and .serve, squeezing in .some more lemon-juice. December 20.—Christmas Picnics.—How funny to tho.se unaccustomed to our summer December day.s is the adver- tisement which so much amused our friends in Fngland, to whom we had .sent a Cape paper, of Shady hats for Christinas Picnics!—\mt in our colony this is the great picnic time. And Chri.stmas will soon be here, .so we provide our.selves with nice shady hats at Duncan Taylor's for 9</., and trim them lightly and prettily in readiness for a stay at the .sea- side. Many people like the more wild and unfrequented place.s—.such as Gordon’s 15ay, near Sir I^.>wrie's l^’a.ss, and Hermannspetrusfontyn in the Caledon di.strict, which is particularly lovely ; and soon there will be a railway running clo.se to it. At pre.sent the journey is accomplished by cart or wagon. There is game shooting in the neigh- lx.»urhood as well as fi.shing. Camping-out for a few day.s is mo.st enjoyable. Cape Point is well worth a visit, with its grand scenery and the drive over the hills. Well, .shall we go to Cape Point for a week during the Christmas holidays? We all agree it will be delightful! The gentlemen of the party make arrangements with a farmer living at Simonstown over Red Hill to provide a tent-wagon and good span of oxen. We also take a .small tent for .some of the party to sleep in, the rc.st will sleep in the wagon-; for each, rugs, a light gutta-percha mattress that folds up, a pillow. All this tidily strapped up goes down by train to Simon.stown.Dec. 236 A WEEK AT CAPE POINT The ladies look after the hampers, as there are no shops at Cape Point, and only the lighthouse-keeper (who by the way is generally most hospitable and kind). We must not foiget anything—least of all the gridiron. We will take a piece of nice corned beef, which should be boiled slowly foi four or five hours and pressed, putting a weight on a plate turned over it. This is a nice piece de resistance., and a leg of mutton turned into sasaties. (See Hilda’s Where is it foi lecipe.) Or we take the leg of mutton with us, and when we outspan cut it into chops to be cooked on the gridiron or pronged stick over the flame. Of course, one caters in proportion to the size of the party. Some cold roasted chickens and cold frickadel keeps well, wrapped up in sandwich-paper. Ileie is a good dish for picnics. Cut any pieces of mutton or beef (uncooked) in tiny shreds. Whisk up an egg or two with some finely-shred bread-crumbs, a little nutmeg, pepper, some hard-boiled eggs chopped up, a little parsley, a suspicion of white onion finely chopped. Mix all well together. Butter some paper and put a spoonful in each paper, folded en papillate, and fry in a pan in boiling fat, laid, oi dripping. Ihis is very good, and a nice dish for such occasions. Then we generally can get fish. A nice “Hottentot” fish, oi a galjeon—both are equally nice done on coals, just broiled with the scales on them. We also take down a few dozen mutton patties, which, when home-made, will keep for two days. A tin canister contains a few sponge-cakes, buns, moss bolletjes, some turn-overs, and any fruit that is in season, apricots, green almonds. In another basket we pack some cups and saucers, tea-pot, essence of coffee (yHilda s Where is it, p. 35). Milk we buy from the peopleDec. A DAY ON THE VELDT 237 living on the hills. The kettle for boiling the water is gener- ally tied under the wagon, to economize space; and as we walk along we collect dry pieces of wood, which always is rather a scarce article ; then if we have walked a good bit, and gathered lovely heather and other wild flowers as well as wood, we “ Wait for the wagon, and all take a ride,” and so we go on slowly but merrily, singing and laughing and talking; and at last Cape Point is reached, and oh, how o-rand and beautiful it looks! o The tired oxen are outspanned ; the tent is pitched, and every one is busily engaged, and we are determined to have a very happy time. Home-made brown bread keeps for two or three days. We take some baking-powder and make a soda loaf, which we get the lighthouse-keeper to bake for us should we run short; but we hope not to do so; and don’t forget a fev/ pounds of fresh butter. But even if we cannot be away a week there is no more delightful way of enjoying oneself than a day out in the veldt, during the lovely weather we have at the Cape from September to Christmas. Supposing we start for a picnic to one of the large valleys on the flats between Wynberg and Muizenberg ; some of the party could walk or cycle, while those who prefer driving might go in a Cape cart, in which would go the well-stocked hamper. If we have a party of twelve, the hamper might contain two cold roast chickens, or a chicken-pie, a loaf of bread, ^ lb. butter, some salad- dressing, lettuces if in season, or half-a-dozen ripe tomatoes, two dozen little tartlets, cake, and fruit. In another basket we take half-a-dozen cups, a quart bottle of the coffee-essence, 2 quarts of milk, or a teapot, tea, and kettle. We all as before look for wood, on arriving at our destina-238 Dec. LIGHTING- A FIRE OUT OP DOORS tion ; if there is room in the cart, I would suggest a few dry fir-cones and chips of wood should be taken. It is no easy task to light a fire in the open. A Kaffir or Hottentot is wonderfully smart at doing so. I have seen them lighting a fire with a tinder-box (every herd about fifty years ago carried a brass tinder-box), and striking fire from a stone they carried about with them. Old stockings (white ones) used to be in great request to make the tinder by burning it, matches years ago not being within reach of the poorest. Break up the driest twigs, and get if possible out of the wind behind a bush or mound ; put a few stones under so as to raise the twigs, and set alight with a match (not tinder-box this time). Don’t be in a hurry, coax it to bttrn little by little till the flame is large enough to allow of thicker pieces of wood, any stumps or dry roots. When the fire is burning well put on the saucepan of water for the potatoes or rice ; by the time either of this is done, say half-an-hour, boiling all the time, there ought to be hot wood coals enough to grill the sasaties ; put on the gridiron, raising it slightly, so that the coals don’t get choked. Sasaties will take about ten minutes on a bright ' fire ; throw a little coarse salt over the coals, it will make it burn brighter. When the sasaties are ready, let the juice in which they were prepared boil in a pan or saucepan, and serve with the sasaties as hot as possible. But alas for picnics!—something is sure to be forgotten, and the cooking is not always a perfect success, and yet we seem to enjoy even the failures which we would grumble over at home. When we get to the stage of coffee, the milk is boiled, and the cup filled three parts with it, and just an oz. or two of coffee-essence added, and I may safely say that nothingDec. 239 KNEE-HALTERING A HORSE can be nicer than that cup of coffee, if the extract has been properly made. Before we leave we will see every spark of fire carefully stamped out. Knee-halter.—The following is the way we “ knee-halter ” horses at the Cape, to prevent their straying. A broad strap is fastened round one of the fore-legs of the hoise just above the knee, to which is attached a steel ring. The “ reim ” or strap of the halter is then passed through the steel ring and drawn tight enough to bring the horse’s head into such a position that it would be impossible to raise it high enough to bolt. This is the correct method. It is more often done with the “ reim ” alone (dispensing with the strap and ring), and in this case the “ reim ” is simply tied round the leg in such a tvay as not to tighten, but no particular knot is used—it is merely a “ knack.” This is useful to know for picnics or any camping-out. Cape horses, if tired, always enjoy a roll in the sand, and are so eager for it as soon as they come to their journey s end, that I have known the pommels of a saddle broken which had not at once been taken off. December 23.—About travelling picnics.—Now that rail- ways connect the different parts of the country, travelling by ox-wagon or cart and horses will soon be things of the past; but still there are places that even now can only be reached by roads. From Malmesbury to Darling, and then on to Hopefield and Saldanah Bay, people travel by cart- and-four, and send all produce to the station by wagons. I have vivid recollections of a delightful picnic we had travelling for a week from one place to another in a wagon drawn by eight horses. Our paity consisted of eight or240 Dec. TRAVELLING PICNICS. WILD FLOWERS nine, besides the coachman, who with my brother had the reins and whip. There were, besides, two ladies’ horses, which some of us rode alternately. It was in the lovely September month, when most of the wild flowers were out. Starting from Groote Poste the drive goes up a steep hill. All along the roadside grew the red “Africander” (gladiolus), and “ evening flower,” and the other sweet-scented shrubs, such as rosemary bushes with white blossoms—something like French May, only poorer ; the leaves are very fragrant if crushed, and are much appreciated as food by sheep and goats. Then there was the Buchu plant, also smelling very fragrant. When the top of the hill was reached the view looking back was very lovely ; Groote Poste down on the slope nestling comfortably among the trees, and surrounded by gardens, farm-buildings, fields of waving corn and rye; beyond that the wide ocean ; and to the south. Table Mountain and Robben Island. But we must go on. As we descended the hill we saw all along the opposite hillside lovely vineyards, just showing the fresh green leaves, fenced in by hedges of dog-roses white with blossoms, the beauti- ful rose brought by Lord Macartney from China, and named after him the “ Macartney ”; and low down in the valley “Orange fountain,” where a widowed sister-in- law and her sons and daughters lived. Here again roses in abundance and loquat trees with golden fruit. Stretches of cultivated fields everyv/here meet the eye ; droves of sheep, horses, and cows. Ostriches were not kept here, the ground being too hard and hilly. On we drove over another hill, and then there is a long stretch of plain, about fifty miles; and beyond that a long range of mountains. We drove oh to Darling, leaving Waylands to the right, andDec: HORSES ENJOY A ROLL IN SAND R 241 here again the wild flowers are perfectly lovely—bavianas, dark blue with crimson centre ; kalossies, from pale yellow to bright orange with black centre, or whole flowers metallic- blue ; bright crimson mesembryanthemums. That night we slept at a cousin’s farm, and started early next morning. After a drive of fifteen miles we outspanned where there was water, and the horses were knee-haltered and allowed to have a good roll in the soft sand, powdering themselves all over. It seems an instinct with all horses to roll after a long drive or ride, and my father always said nothing cooled or refreshed an animal more, I always feel sorry for horses when I see them led about to cool, instead of, what is far more natural to them, allowing them to have a good stretch on soft ground. I think the grooms object to the extra brushing they have to give the horse !—a long digression on the merits of rolling and knee-haltering, my friends will say ; but in travelling it is so necessary to know why a thing is done. The horses being a most important factor in travelling, their wants are always care- fully attended to, and some one of the party watches that some thirsty one does not run to the water before it is quite cool! The coachman meanwhile ties the travelling manger to the pole of the wagon. This manger is made of canvas, and it is so much safer feeding the horses in this way than throwing the forage on the ground, where they might eat sand with the cut hay. Our hamper was next unpacked. Bread, butter, hard- boiled eggs, corned breast or ribs of mutton ; frickadels, that is minced mutton, with bread-crumbs, spices, etc., made into little balls and fried—they are excellent for travelling. We were not far from a farm, and they kindly sent us a jug of hot boiled milk, which we enjoyed.Dec. SALDANAH BAY 242 We started on our journey, enjoying the flowers, air, and drive immensely. The nemesias, scarlet and pink, grow on these flats, and I wished it was the time to get seeds, they were so lovely. We got to a farm called Geelbeck, owned by Mr. Breda, who married our cousin, just as a very bad shower was falling, and some who were on horse- back got drenched. The kind inmates received us hospit- ably, and gave us nice hot lunch and coffee; and when man and beast were thoroughly refreshed (for I must tell you the roads are through sand ruts), on we went, and that evening we reached Saldanah Bay. It is indeed a most perfect harbour, and one only regrets that the country around, though so rich in wild flowers in the spring-time, is not fertile enough to carry a large population, nor is there water in any quantity. In old days there were little stations all along from Saldanah Bay to Cape Town, where troops were stationed—such as Oude Post near Darling, Groote Poste, Newe Post ; and at Saldanah Bay there was, in years gone by, an English resident, Captain Marsh, whom my father used to know very well. We explored the hills around the bay, found the scarlet geranium growing wild (the original kind from which such endless varieties have been cultivated), and such lovely gazanias, pink ones, and exquisite white, as if made of the finest white porcelain; flowers, in fact, in every shade of colour and form. The next day we started for Berg river, by way of St. Helena Bay, camping out for breakfast, but generally staying at some hospitable farm-house, the occupants of which knew the Duckitts, and would not allow us to unpack our hamper, but insisted in themselves entertaining us. The evening of the fourth day we reached Berg river, having travelled very leisurely and enjoying ourselves,Dec. BERG RIVER. RIBBON CAKE 243 Berg river, the home of the Melcks, who have splendid thoroughbred horses and prize sheep. On this farm ostriches roam in large droves, and the lovely Berg river winds in and out, running level with its banks, which are wooded with willow, blue-gum, and black-wood, forming a lovely oasis. The soil all along the Berg river is very rich, being much mixed with limestone, and grows fine crops of wheat, oats, rye, and barley. Vineyards do not thrive there, but apricots, peaches, and lem.ons ; the trees die away after three or four years and new ones have to be planted, there not being sufficient depth of soil; but it is a lovely homestead, known far and wide for its hospitality. The river affords much enjoyment, with boating and swimming; there is, however, no fishing. Shooting is a favourite pastime, game abounding. The hippopotami used to be numerous in the river in olden days, but being very dangerous to the inhabitants the last one was shot, and now adorns the museum in Cape Town. The ostriches find their own food here—the saline bush, with succulent leaf, which forms their staple food at Graaf Reinet and Outshoorn, growing all along the banks of the river. Ribbon Cake (Mrs. Griffith’s, of Port Elizabeth, recipe).— I lb. sugar, lb. butter beaten to a cream with sugar. Add 6 eggs, one at a time, i large cupful of milk ; lastly, i lb. flour with half a teaspoonful of soda, and i teaspoonful of cream-of-tartar. Mix all well together, and flavour with vanilla essence. Divide this quantity into three equal parts, and pour into baking-tins, leaving one tin plain, colouring a second with cochineal, and the third with a sixpenny cake of chocolate, grated and dissolved in half a cup of milk extra, stirred into it. When all are baked, set to cool,244 Dec. ICING. “JUMBLES.” ROCK CAKES and when nearly cold cut in layers ; while the cakes are cooling make the icing. Before quite cold, build the layers of cake together, the icing between slices, so that the plain cake, the pink and the brown come alternately, and pour the rest of the icing over the outside. Half this quantity will make a nice-sized cake. Lemon icing in between and over all is very nice. Icing for Cakes (Mrs. Griffith’s recipe).—Two large cups of fine white sugar, with just enough hot water to melt it; set it to boil in an earthenware saucepan, stirring occasionally till it threads from the spoon ; beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and put into a deep basin, and pour the boiling sugar over the stiffly beaten whites, beating all the time. December 24.—“Jumbles” (Tea Cakes, West Indian recipe, brought from Jamaica by Mrs. Monier Williams).— 6 oz. finely-powdered loaf-sugar. 8 oz. butter. I egg. 12 oz. flour (4 of which to be self-raising flour'). The sugar and butter to be rubbed well with the egg, and the flour added by degrees. When well mixed, take pieces the size of a walnut, roll them into a pencil shape about 5 inches long, keeping them rounded. Coil them round flat on the baking-dish, round and round, but keeping the coil flat and closely curled. When baked it looks a very pretty and dainty tea cake. Rock Cakes.— i lb. flour. lb. butter. I egg. Half a teaspoonful of baking-powder.Dec. 245 CHRISTMAS. DRIED FLOWERS lb. sugar. Some currants. 2 tablespoonfuls of cold milk. Mix dry ingredients first. Then beat up the egg, but do not mix with it all the milk at once, but add as you require it. Put in a pan pieces the size of a walnut; bake in a quick oven. 25.—Christmas Day.—A happy, bright Christmas to friends near and far! To some of my dear friends in England I shall send by post a bouquet of our Cape wild flowers dried. Dried Flowers.—Heaths and other Cape flowers are most successfully dried by flattening the flower between the pages of an old folio, putting silver- or tissue-paper over the flowers you are pressing, and over that small pieces of absorbent cotton-wool ■ this prevents the flower from being pressed out of shape, and absorbs all the moisture, and so drying it in a few days, the colours are preserved and it is much less trouble, there being no need of changing the flowers more than once. Tie the folio or volume, in which you are pressing your flowers, with a string, and put them under a slight weight, or press. The flowers dry sooner if the books are put out into the sun, and, in winter, before the fire. Where the flowers grow in a cluster, carefully take them from the stalks and press singly, and when you arrange on cardboard the flowers you have taken off to dry, put on the stalk again with “ stickfast,’' which we find the best adhesive for gumming on the dried flowers. Pommes a la Russe.—Take any kind of stewing or dessert apple, peel and core well * fill the hollow with mince-meat, made as for mince-pies ; have ready a syrup made of a cup of sugar to a cup of water. When boiling, put in the apples,Dec. TWO PUDDINGS. RAISIN BREAD 246 and boil till clear ; take care that the syrup only comes up to the apples and does not cover. May be eaten hot or cold. December 27.—I find I have six or seven good recipes waiting to be entered in my Diary, and we shall be glad of all for our Christmas gatherings, so I must write them down as fast as possible. Ginger Pudding (Mrs. Eksteen’s).— ^ lb. chopped suet. I lb. sugar. 1 lb. flour. I large teaspoonful of ground ginger. Half a cup of milk. 1 egg. Stir all well together ; boil for two hours in a mould. Serve with any fruit sauce or custard. Cold Water Pudding (Miss Cartwright’s).— 2 ozs. fresh butter. 1 lb. sifted sugar. 3 oi‘ 4 eggs. 1 lemon. 8 tablespoon fills of cold water. Beat the butter to a cream ; add the yolks of the eggs, then the sugar and water, the juice of the lemon and grated rind; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth to add last, and beat all well together, and bake in a small pudding-dish, in a slow oven, for half-an-hour or more, and serve quickly. Raisin Bread (Miss Cartwright’s).— 2 lbs. flour. I lb. sugar. f lb. raisins. Some cinnamon ground.Dec. TEA CAKES. COCOANUT BISCUITS 247 . Grated nutmeg, and spoonful of crushed anise-seed. A tablespoonful of baking-powder (self-raising flour may be used). 3 ozs. butter (or 2 ozs. butter and i oz. ox-marrow). Mix as you would scones or bread with milk ; if wanted very nice, add two or three eggs. Roll into loaves, and bake in a quick oven for an hour. This quantity will make two good loaves. Very nice for luncheon or tea with butter. Tea Cakes (Miss Becker’s, a German recipe).— f lb. butter, stirred to a cream. 6 ozs. fine sugar. I egg. I lb. flour. Vanilla or lemon flavouring. Stir all well together and roll out thinly. Cut into fancy shapes, or with a small round tin. Egg over and strew with sugar mixed with pounded almonds. . Cocoanut Biscuits (Miss May Van Renen’s).— 6 ozs. sugar, stirred well together with yolk of one egg. ^ lb. desiccated cocoanut. The whites of four eggs. ' Mix well and shape in small pyramids. Bake in a moderate oven. Chocolate Icing (Miss May Van Renen’s).—Put ^ lb. grated chocolate with 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water in an enamelled saucepan; boil five minutes, then stir in 6 ozs. icing sugar. Let it just come to a boil; take off the fire, stir well, and spread over any cake you wish to ice quickly. Sponge-cake and this in layers and the icing also over all would be excellent.Dec. BLACKBERRIES. CURRANT JELLY December 28.—As I have said, we get blackberries the end of December, and shall be glad to know how to make blackberry puddings and jelly. Blackberry Pudding (Mrs. Smith’s).—Line a dish with slices of bread-and-butter, and put a layer of blackberries with lots of sugar, another layer of slices of bread-and- butter, and so on till the dish is full; bake it for an hour, and serve with custard. Mulberries done in this way are very good also. Blackberry or mulberry fool is delicious made like gooseberry fool with cream. Blackberries.—The ancients are said to have believed that both the fruit and flower of the blackberry were preventives against the bites of serpents!—and in North- amptonshire I am told the young shoots of the bramble eaten as salad are supposed to be of use to fasten loosened teeth ; perhaps some one would like to try! Blackberry Jelly (Miss Adeane’s).—Take the fruit before quite ripe, put it in a pot and tie up close and place it in a kettle of water. Leave the fruit so till it is reduced to a pulp, then strain, and to a pint of juice put i lb. powdered sugar. Boil to a jelly and put up for use. Blackberry jelly makes excellent sandwiches for tea. Currant Jelly.—A similar way of doing currants is from a French recipe ; but a variety is given to the usual red currant jelly by adding to whatever quantity you take of the very reddest red currants half the amount of white ones and a quarter of the quantity in raspberries. The fruit is pressed through a sieve which leaves the skins and seeds behind, and the pulp, which has not passed the sieve, is then put with a very little water into a preserving-pan on the fire to swell, and then strained through a linen cloth, the juice of it added to the first juice. Weigh the juice, and add the 248 ISAVOURY JELLIES Dec. 249 same weight of sugar to it, and leave it to stand two hours. Then boil it up and skim. After that boil twenty minutes on a moderate fire, by which time it should be a clear thin jelly, ready to pot. White currants may be done alone the same way, but should be flavoured with a little lemon-peel. Savoury Jellies.—For lunch or breakfast in hot weather nothing is more acceptable than a cold meat jelly. The savoury meat jelly which is not cleared is of course very simple and made quickly. The aspic or clear requires more attention, but will not be found difficult by any cook who will carefully follow the instructions given in the following recipes. It is necessary that the stock used for an aspic should be very strong, consequently it will be found better to clear it with raw meat instead of the white of egg, as the meat always adds more flavour than it takes away in the process of clearing. No turnip should ever be boiled in the stock of which an aspic is made, as it is apt to cause it to turn sour. All vegetables have this tendency in some degree, but none to the same extent as the turnip. Savoury Meat Jelly (Mrs. Mitchison’s).— ^ packet of gelatine, pints of water, lbs. shin of beef or gravy. I carrot. I onion. A little celery. A blade of mace. 20 peppercorns. A few sweet herbs. A teaspoonful of salt.ASPIC JELLY Dec. 250 Three hard-boiled eggs. Any remains of cold chicken or lamb. Cut up the meat over-night into pieces an inch square, put into a saucepan with a quart of water, bring it slowly to a boil, and skim ; then add vegetables and salt and simmer for five hours, when the liquid will be reduced to one pint; if it be less, add a little water ; strain into a basin. Next day remove the fat; soak half a packet of gelatine, or if the weather is hot a little more, in a pint of cold water. Boil up the stock, and when the gelatine has soaked put into the boiling stock, then pour into a basin to cool ; flavour with a little tomato sauce, lemon, or Worcester sauce. Pour a little of this jelly into a mould, and when it is set put some slices of hard-boiled eggs on it, fill up with more jelly and more hard-boiled egg, pieces of veal, ham, or sausage, slices of tomato, if in season, or beetroot, adding jelly in alternate layers, and finishing up with jelly. Aspic.—For aspic (Mrs. Mitchison’s recipe), dissolve a whole quart packet of gelatine in the stock prepared as in former recipe for “ meat jelly,” first soaking it in cold water, and then pouring the boiling stock on to the gela- tine and strain. (I find an ordinary thin glass-cloth, washed and dipped in boiling water and tied to the legs of a kitchen chair turned over on the hearth, the best way for straining or clarifying jelly.) The next day skim carefully every particle of fat, and clear the stock with raw meat— half-a-pound of gravy-beef shred fine. Put it in the sauce- pan with the stock and toss over the fire till a white scum or froth begins to rise to the surface, and as it is on the point of boiling leave off at once (it is a mistake to stir too long). Let it remain on the fire until it boils and bubbles,ASPIC Dec. 251 then draw aside, place the lid on the saucepan, just leaving a crack for the steam to escape; let it stand in a warm place for twenty minutes, then pour through the cloth or serviette tied at each corner to the leg of a kitchen chair. If these instructions are carefully observed it will run clear after two or three times passing through the bag or cloth. If by accident it should not be clear, boil up again and let it stand as before; it is sure to become bright. Having cleared the stock, arrange the aspic in an orna- mental design. Place a tin mould in a basin and pack it round with ice, or, if no ice is to be had, cold water into which a handful of salt and saltpetre has been thrown, and placed in a current of air, will soon cool it. Pour a little jelly in the mould, and when set, make any pretty design with the white of egg, such as a large daisy, the petals being cut from the hard-boiled white, and half the hard-boiled yolk forming the yellow centre of the daisy. Add some more jelly, and when that is set rub the yolk of the egg through a wire sieve on the jelly; pour a little more jelly on that, then a little more egg, taking care the jelly sets each time. After having made this band half-an-inch deep of this “gold-dust,” proceed to fill up with clear jelly, a few pieces of cold chicken, tongue, etc. Aspic for Garnishing.—Chicken or lobster salad are often served inside a rim of aspic jelly, or simply garnished with pieces of aspic jelly cut in fancy shapes, or crumbled. To make the rim or border put the aspic into what is called a narrow border moidd. When ready to serve turn out on a dish and fill the centre with chicken or lobster salad. Sprigs of parsley and a few radishes may be arranged in the aspic to give it a good effect.GHERKIN PRESERVE. APPLES Dec. 252 December 30.—(xherkin (Young Cucumber) Preserve (Miss Breda’s).—Take equal weight of sugar and fruit; a few cloves. Take the gherkin, and with a sharp-pointed knife cut a small incision at the side, and with a thin steel knitting-needle pierce a few holes at each end. Lay in a deep basin in lime-water—an ounce of ordinary lime to three quarts of cold water—for a night. Wash clean, and lay in cold water, to which half-an-ounce of salt was added, for a day. The next day boil in water till soft enough to pierce with a reed ; drain and pop into cold water for a few minutes. In the meantime get ready a syrup, made by boiling equal proportions of sugar and water, skim and strain it; let the syrup get cold, and put the gherkins into the syrup over-night. Next day boil slowly for three or four hours, flavour with a few cloves, or a few pieces of ginger tied in a piece of muslin. Take out the bag when the preserve is ready. Bottle, boiling-hot, in Hazel jars. The test by which we know the preserve is ready is to put some syrup on a plate; if it ripples as it cools it is good. \ Apples.—Cutting sent me from a parish magazine— ‘“Here’s to thee, old apple tree, Whence thou mayst bud, and whence thou mayst blow. And whence thou mayst bear apples eno’, Hats full, caps full. Baskets, bushel, sacks full, And my pockets full too, huzza.’ “Thus sang the West-country farmers on the eve of the Epiphany, while dancing round the largest and best- bearing tree, as they drank to it three times, in a pitcher of cider.” Apple Jelly.—Pare and core some apples, slice with aAPPLE SNOW. GREEN BUTTER Dec. 253 ■ silver knife into a preserving-pan with enough water to cover them, boil till tender, and then strain off, pressing out the juice through a coarse muslin bag. To each pint of juice add | lb. sugar; boil briskly till it becomes a jelly ; test it as described above. Apple Snow (Miss Breda’s).— 6 large apples, packet isinglass or gelatine. Wineglass of water, to soak isinglass. Juice of a lemon. Whites of 2 eggs. 3 ozs. sifted sugar. Cut up and reduce the apples to a pulp by boiling, pass through a strainer or sieve, put back into the saucepan with the soaked isinglass, pour into a basin to cool. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten with castor-sugar, and add the juice of a lemon ; whisk the whole together till it begins to set. Pile it high on a glass dish and arrange small pieces of red currant or quince jelly round it. Make a custard of the two yolks, and serve with the apple snow. Green Butter.—This is nice for luncheon or dinner. Take 2 ozs. parsley, picked from the stalk, and boil till tender, then press out the juice from it. Meantime take 3 ozs. anchovies, which should be washed, boiled, and pounded fine (if you have not the anchovies in bottles, anchovy paste will do). Mix this and the parsley thoroughly into 4 ozs. fresh butter and pass through a fine sieve. It should then be pressed into the shape of a cream-cheese and kept in the cool till used. Old English Pot-pourri.—In Hildas Where is it I was able to give an old Cape recipe for pot-pourri; now I amPOT-POURRI. GOOD-BYE! Dec. 254 m giving an old English one. There is nothing so sweet as the old pot-pourri which has been kept for years in the splendid old jars of Chinese porcelain, and somehow the scent of it always makes you realize you are in a home. No hotel ever indulged in pot-pourri! Dry the rose-petals well in the sun, also jasmine, orange- blossoms, lavender, sweet lemon, verbena-leaves, myrtle, thyme, sweetbriar, bay, rosemary, marjoram, and some thin dried rind of lemon. Take— ^ lb. bag of salt. One shilling’s-worth of ambergris. 12 ozs. orris root and gum benzoin. 2 ozs. powdered cloves and cinnamon. I oz. each of mace, storax, calamus aromaticus, and cypress. Pound all in a mortar with a pinch of musk. Lay a thick '' bed of coarse salt at the bottom of a jar; then a layer of dried flowers ; sprinkle on them the mixed spice and some bay salt, then another layer of flowers, and so on till the jar is full; finish up with a thin layer of spices and salt,'N Put on the top a board with a weight on it to press it all together. Do not stir it for two or three months ; then b mix all together daily with a wooden spoon. Add a few ' •' dried rose-petals or flowers each year, and a little salt, and stir, but no more spices will be needed. Some add a dried Seville orange stuck full of cloves. J December 31.—Good-bye.—I cannot close my Diary with- g out cordially thanking all who have so kindly given per- J mission to quote good recipes. I think the names of all m such kind helpers are duly recorded with the recipes or ’1 quotations. (If any are unintentionally omitted I trust J they will forgive me.) The results will, I hope, be tried in :mGOOD-BYE ! Dec. many Colonial homes not only in South Africa but round the globe, and perhaps in old England itself! so those who enjoy the dishes will thank those who have so generously helped me. And now good-bye! We have talked over our work and our holidays together through the year. Good-bye I and good luck I END OF THE DIARYg’ r./N f / \ I .. ^ ^ •> , >c' *!“ 'I X'KS’Sv^L V, -V261 APPENDIX NAMES OF CAPE FISH. (Mzss Thwaites has painted most of the fish in this collection i) The following are the fish commonly sold at Cape Town, Wynberg, and other suburbs, and sent by train as far as Pretoria and Johannesburg. I have put the scientific names of most of them. Crawfish, Palinurus vulgaris. Dageraad, Pagrus laniarius. El ft fish, Temiiodon saltator. Galjoen, Dipteroden capensis. Geelbeck (Cape salmon), Otolithus acqmdens. Gurnet, Trigla capensis. Haarder, Mugil capensis. Hottentot, Sargus capensis. Kabeljow, Scikna holocipidota. Klipfish, or Rockfish (they live under the rocks), Blennius versicolor. Maasbanker, Caranx trachurus lacep. Mackerel, Scombergrex. Paarlemon, or Klipkous (a shell-fish), Hahotis midce.App. NAMES OP CAPE PISH 262 Red Stumpnose, Crysopleplus globiceps. Red Stumpnose, Pagallus afer} “ Roman,” Chrysophrys christiceps. “ Seventy-four,” Dentex rupestris. Silver-fish, Dentex argyrozona, Snoek, Thyrsites atun. Steenbraas, Lithog^mthus capensis. Steentje, Boops salpa. * With the very large knob on its head, said to be the male, and not so good as the one with less of a k?iob—both kinds very often caught together.LOCUST DESTRUCTION. 263 INFORMATION FROM THE AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY REGARDING LOCUST DESTRUCTION.^ In view of the appearance of Voetgangers^ in large numbers in various divisions of the Colony, the question of combined systematic efforts on the part of farmers demands early consideration. It is in their earlier stages—when the Voetgangers are hatching out, and for a few weeks afterwards—that most good can be effected, and at the smallest expenditure of time and labour; but to be of any permanent effect, active measures should be taken at once, and should most emphatically be the result of combined effort on the part of all the farmers in the locality in which the Voetgangers appear. We would not underrate the value of individual effort, but to be effective it must be the combined effort of ^ A friend draws my attention to a passage in the Life of Lord Lilford^ by his sister, in which he mentions receiving “ seventeen sacks of dried locusts from Larnaca, not very fresh, but much appreciated by more of my birds than I can well enumerate.” Is it possible they could be used as food for poultry or pheasants ? ^ The young locusts generally appear after the first summer rains, as soon as the crops are cut.—H. D. ,LOCUST DESTRUCTION App. 264 individuals , W6 look to our farmors to join oach with his neighbour to combat the plague, and that without loss of time. . . . The methods of destruction recommended have the merit of being comparatively simple and inexpensive. They are— {a) The use of canvas screens, with a strip of oilcloth, 4i ins. wide, sewn on the top of the canvas, so as to guide the locusts into pits in which the swarms were buried. {b) Trampling by flocks of sheep or goats. if) Dragging heavy bush sleighs over them. {d) Beating with flails or stampers. Mr. Verran, Sheep Inspector, Sterkstroom, reports having adopted the following method at Cathcart, with great success :—“ The swarms were driven up from each side by means of red flags, and when on a fairly level spot were destroyed with flails; and once the swarm has been beaten through, those remaining are easily dealt with. . . . “ The flail I found most serviceable was made from No. 12 wire, one yard long, with about thirty strands, fixed on a good strong handle, and is in appearance like the ‘ cat ’ used in prisons. Each flail will kill thousands, and will not distress the man who uses it.” (e) Use of locust fungus. Attention is again drawn to the fact that supplies of fungus may be obtained free of charge on application to the resident magistrate of the division. The method of infecting a swarm is very simple, and involves but little trouble. Like other fungi, it thrives best in damp weather, hencd it is advisable to use it in moist or hot weather, and to make the infection of the swarms just before sunset. The instructions for using the fungus . . . are as under—App. LOCUST DESTRUCTION 265 (1) Method of application for Voetgangers. Take about one pound of white bread j dry it, and then grate it down into coarse powder. Put a cupful into a bowl and add enough water to make a watery paste. Add to this the contents of one tube of fungus, and keep it in a warm place until the fungus is seen to be growing over it. Now place small portions where the Voetgangers are appearing, and take care to see that where not eaten up the small portions are kept moist from day to day until they have been eaten. (2) Method of application for Flying Locusts. Directions for Preparing the Fungus previous TO USE. Open a tube and take out the contents entire ; add it to two teaspoonfuls of sugar, and rub the whole together with a spoon or flat knife so as to break up the material and mix it thoroughly. Then dissolve this in three-quarters of a tumblerful of water, \fhich has previously been boiled and allowed to cool. Float in this a few pieces of cork, which have been previously steeped in boiling water and cooled. Now cover the tumbler with a piece of paper, and let it stand during the day in a warm corner of the house or until the fungus is seen to be growing around the pieces of cork. Method of Distribution. (1) Catch some locusts, and, after dipping them into the fungus, let them go into the swarm again. (2) Smear patches of damp ground, where the locusts alight to feed, with the fungus. (3) Confine some locusts in a box which contains someApp. LOCUST DESTRUCTION 266 favourite food moistened with the fungus, and, after the food has been eaten, return the locusts to the swarm. (4) Collect a large number of locusts which have died from the fungus. Dig a hole in the ground about eighteen inches deep and one foot wide. Strew some locusts over the bottom, then sprinkle some water over them. Repeat with locusts and again sprinkle until the hole is full. Do not press the locusts into the hole, but leave them lightly packed. Then cover over with a piece of tin or board and keep the whole thus care- fully covered for four or five days. If very warm weather, four days will be sufficient, but if colder a longer time will be required. At the end of this time remove the locusts, and spread them out in the sun for an hour or two, or until thoroughly dry. Now grind them into a meal. Of this meal, which may be kept dry for a long time until wanted, take two tablespoonfuls and add it to a large tumblerful of water, in which some^sugar has been placed. Leave this in a warm place for 12 to 48 hours, and then treat live locusts by dipping, etc., just as one does in using the fungus when supplied in tubes. Spraying the locusts with paraffin has been tried with success; so also has Paris green, arsenite of lead, and various sheep-dips, but the use of these latter ingredients should be very carefully guarded^ as the veldt cannot be used for pasture, and unless stock can be kept off the locality for some time they would be liable to be poisoned. It may be of interest to note that amongst the natural enemies of the locust is a small fly {Cynomia pictifacies) which deposits its eggs on the locust’s neck, and the larvae penetrate the body of the Voetganger, and then proceedApp. LOCUST DESTRUCTION 267 to eat their way out, leaving the carcase like an empty shell. There is another fly which also wages war on the locust by attacking the egg masses. The Government Entomologist has reared some of these from larvae sent him with a view of determining the species. Once more we would urge upon farmers the duty of combining to destroy locusts as they make their appear- ance—if each one will work with his neighbour, and if the work is taken in hand as soon as the Voetgangers hatch I out, the result cannot fail to be encouraging—but to ensure .-success, the work must be energetic, systematic, and taken in hand without delay. [Note.—An interesting article in the Agricultural Journal (describes the screens used in Cyprus—a method which There proved more effectual than any other in defending The crops from the locust plague, for whereas in 1882 the ; British authorities in Cyprus paid £12,262 for egg collect- iing, with little result, in 1883, ;^i2,5ii spent in the screen ; and trap system resulted in practically freeing the country cof locusts. Roughly speaking, the screens are made half- ;.a-yard high, edged at the top with three or four inches cof American cloth, so as to give no foothold to the insects. IPits three feet deep are dug on the side of the screen from ■which the swarm approaches, and into these the locusts [fall, and, as there is a strip of tin projecting over the edge (of the pit, they cannot get out and are easily destroyed. 1 Earth is put on the lower edge of the canvas screen to {prevent the locusts getting through. The screens are kept (.erect by wires and poles.]268 NOTES BY OTHER PEOPLE ON OTHER PARTS OF SOUTH AFRICA. ORANGE RIVER COLONY. In the Orange River Colony cereals of all kinds thrive, and in good seasons it is not unusual to have two crops in the year. Cattle and sheep breeding are successfully carried on, and dairy farming in many parts is a thriving industry. Most of our stone fruits do well, but the vine does not thrive, owing to severe frost. Horse breeding has been started of late years. In the Conquered Territory>, as it is called, a large district which the Boers took formerly from the Basutos, and which of late years was mostly farmed by English and Scotch people, and near Winberg, the soil is exceptionally rich, and in good seasons yields a large crop. Most cereals are put in after the March rains. TRANSVAAL. A gentleman who has farmed for three years in the Transvaal gives me the following notes. The Transvaal is undoubtedly an excellent country for farming, as has already been shown by the returns of a few men of energy and enterprise ; and the demand for produce will be great,App. THE TRANSVAAL 269 .as more mines come to be opened and worked, and so we hope the demand will continue to increase. Of course there are drawbacks in the Transvaal as everywhere else, locusts, diseases, etc. ; and then a very great drawback is :the dearness of labour, owing to the high wages paid to ’natives by the miners, drawing them away from the farmers; ubut by using labour-saving machines, this trouble may be .overcome to a great extent. The best months for putting in garden seeds for spring iplanting are June and July; cauliflowers and cabbages in tthe end of December for winter crops. Potatoes can be planted continuously between ist July r.and 15th January. Mangolds and lucerne for feeding stock both grow well. ; Plant the former in November for winter feeding when the .grass is dried up. Lucerne, owing to the frost, dies off ^ (above the ground) in May, but sprouts out again in "September when the warm weather begins. Great possibilities exist for every kind of farming, the ssort best suited to be decided by locality and altitude. 'Market gardening would pay best in the neighbourhood cof Johannesburg. Peaches and apricots answer particularly well ; in fact, eevery kind of fruit does. But, unfortunately, ripening in tthe summer when all the rains fall, fruit does not keep ' well, and is often destroyed by hail. Oranges and inaartjes grow most luxuriously. Deciduous trees are cut down by frost, so must only ibe planted in the low country. Roses grow and bloom i beautifully, and so do most of our English flowers. Prune : roses from the end of May to the end of June. Rainy Season.—December, January, and February are theTHE TRANSVAAL AND NATAL App. 270 rainy months, and a downpour of rain is followed almost immediately by brilliant sunshine. Dress.—Every lady’s wardrobe should be stocked with light woollen materials as well as muslins for summer wear ; light flannels for undearwear, as well as heavier for winter. Also a showerproof cloak ! In June, July, and August the nights are cold and frosty, with bright sunshiny days, and often furs can be worn with comfort. In September, October, and November rain falls occasionally. The country about Pretoria, lying in a hollow and nearly encircled by hills, has a more tropical climate, and the thinnest of muslins are often worn in midwinter. Roses and violets do very well, and, in fact, every kind of shrub and flower can be raised with a little care and protection from frost, and every garden grows its own fruit and vegetables. NATAL. In the upper or high lands of Natal all European cereals can be well grown. On the lower and coast lands sugar- cane, coffee, tea, pineapples, bananas, and all sorts of sub- tropical fruits flourish. The seasons are much the same as in the eastern parts of Cape Colony, but the climate, as will be seen from the fruits grown, is much hotter, at all events near the coast. Rain usually comes in August and September ; mealies and such crops are then put in. August, September, and October are spring months, when nice showers fall. From November to the end of March is very hot, and heavyNATAL App. 271 storms occur, and bad hail-storms about Christmas are common. I am told that in Italy experiments have been tried to dispel hail-storms by firing cannon, I do not know with what success. Frosts.—In the high lands the first frosts appear in May, and till August the nights are cold, with hot sunshine and a cloudless sky all day. There is no frost on the coast lands, but often a dry, hot wind through the winter, and in summer plenty of rain. Clothing, for the coast as thin as possible all the summer ; a thin serge could be worn in the winter sometimes ; on the high lands clothing practically the same as here; warm wraps are a necessity if much driving is done. House rent, much the same as in the Cape Colony, higher in large towns than in small villages; in Greytown we paid ;^i8 a year for a good four-roomed house; it would be more in Maritzburg or Durban. Farms as a rule are large, looo acres being considered a small farm in Natal. Little plots of ground on the coast are rented by Indian coolies, who grow fruit and vegetables and undersell every one else, and so agriculture does not pay on a small scale, besides which the country and soil is so fruitful that every house (even in towns) has its own garden, in which there is room for a cow! and a vegetable garden ; and as irrigation is nearly always possible, crops can be grown nearly all the year round. Fruits.—On the high lands apples, apricots, plums, peaches, pears, strawberries, and Cape gooseberries grow profusely, while on the coast pineapples, bananas, grena- dillas, guavas, mangoes, pawpaws, oranges, lemons, and naartjes are to be grown in abundance. The suburbs of Durban are full of pretty houses with lovely gardens.App. NATAL Pietermaritzburg also abounds in verandahed bungalows and excellent gardens, with the rose in common use as a hedge plant, and every variety of begonia grows profusely. Servants.—Servants used to be plentiful in the country districts at ioj-. per month and food (consisting of mealie porridge only) for groom or farm work ; young boys at 6s. per month; but in towns wages are higher. The high wages paid at Johannesburg has naturally had the effect of raising the prices in Natal; but coolies from India, in- dentured for five years, can always be had on application, and make good house servants, Kaffir boys make fair cooks, house-boys, etc., with very little training, as they are very observant; but to those who can afford it, I should say, especially where there are children, bring an English nurse with you !273 T TO SPARE ANIMALS UNNECESSARY PAIN. A LADY writes regarding the most merciful way to kill crayfish: “ My cook severs the head from the tail by a deep cut of an inch long; the crayfish dies then, and is not put into the pot to die slowly of the heat.” All cooks, I am sure, would wish to save the creatures required for food unnecessary pain, and I am allowed to reprint extracts from leaflets issued by the Royal Society for Preventing Cruelty to Animals, 105, Jermyn Street, London, which we shall find useful. “On Killing Crabs and Lobsters Mercifully.—Fishermen, and a few small fishmongers, sometimes unthinkingly are guilty of much cruelty to lobsters and crabs during the process of preparing them for human food. The animals while still alive are put into saucepans or pots containing cold water, and placed on a fire for the purpose of being boiled. The water gradually rises in temperature, which first alarms the poor creatures and shortly afterwards kills them slowly. This practice revolts a humane mind it is horrible to the animal and shocking to cultured persons. It is desirable therefore to introduce a method more consistent with moral feeling. People are not easily induced to depart from usage; still, most men will admit the force of an appeal submitted to them with tact on the score of kindness. In fact, they are274 App. HUMANE WAY OP KILLING CRABS cruel unwittingly, and follow this practice without thinking of the torture they cause. The first objection they will raise is that lobsters and crabs shed their claws if not boiled gradually. To remove this conception it is best to offer them double payment for a supply of shell-fish by a trial process and test; then they see, and are convinced. “Directions.—Crabs should be ‘pithed’ before being placed in the saucepan. This is done by inserting a stiletto in the animal’s brain, as shown in our engraving, either from above, perpendicularly (i), or from the side of the shell, horizontally (2). This should be done quickly, and theHUMANE WAY OP KILLING LOBSTERS App. 275 stiletto should be wriggled about, the object being not only to stun the animal but to destroy the brain matter, and by actual death prevent sensibility returning. If the insertion be made as shown by mark i, the little crown lap, marked 3, should first of all be drawn back. The whole process may be done in an instant, after which the animal may be boiled. “Lobsters should be plunged into ample boiling water, when death is instantaneous. Take care that the water actually boils—not ‘steams’ merely. If several lobsters have to be cooked at the same time, they should be packed on each other in a pot, weighted down, with a wooden lid, and boiling water poured rapidly on them. “ I this morning visited Billingsgate Market. I made my way to the boiling-room underneath the market, where vast numbers of creatures are boiled every morning. In this compartment there are eight boilers (about thirty-two inches in depth, and twenty-seven inches in diameter) each half full of boiling water. Standing around are numerous iron baskets, which, when filled up with crabs and lobsters, are hoisted by means of ropes and pulleys, and dropped into the boiling cauldrons. The charge for boiling is <^d. per basket. The lobsters are carried down here in hampers, and after being once dipped in cold water to cleanse them from sand and other impurities, are neatly packed in the iron baskets. This done, a covering of wickerwork is laid flat on the top layer of fish, and three or four stones are laid on to keep them down in the same position when im- mersed in the boiling water. Death is instantaneous.” “A HUMANE WAY OF KILLING CALVES. “ First, use the pole-axe ; then take off the head ; and then hang up the body to drain. This method is not onlyApp. KIND TREATMENT OP ANIMALS humane but profitable—the veal is more nourishing, is more agreeable to the palate, and is delicate in appearance. We ask butchers to try this process, assured that with the support of public opinion they will gladly discontinue the present slow torture which calves undergo. “BAD MEAT. “ Perhaps the most certain cause of diseased meat is the violent and cruel treatment of cattle on their way to the markets from the green fields where they have lived in peace and comfort. The brutal conduct of drovers, the deprivation of food and water, the over-driving^ through dusty roads and crowded thoroughfares, are notorious ; and these bring on fever and disease. Surely this treatment should be prevented ! “A NOBLE RESOLUTION AND EXAMPLE. “The Daily Telegraph (July 4, 1867) says—‘Yesterdays afternoon a meeting of the Nottingham butchers was held at the hide and skin market, for the purpose of taking into consideration what steps should be adopted with reference to the white veal question. Mr. C. W. Simkins was in the chair, and there was a good attendance. A discussion took place which was entirely friendly to the stopping of the system of bleeding calves prior to killing, and the following resolution was unanimously adopted: “We, Members of ^ “Mr. Hunt, of North Mundham, in Sussex, who has dealt in calves for thirty-nine years and sends about two thousand every year to market, always conveys them standing in carts which are 6 ft. by 5 ft-, with open rails each side for ventilation. Each van holds fifteen calves, and travels at five miles an hour. In all those years he has only lost one calf on a journey. A similar plan is in use in Paris.HUMANE WAY TO KILL RABBITS App. 277 the Nottingham Butchers’ Association, whose names are appended, pledge ourselves not to bleed calves before kill- ing them, and to use our best efforts to induce the trade generally to adopt the same resolve.” ’ “We advise all butchers,the sake of their own interests, to refrain from ill-treating the animals they have to sell for food, and entreat them on the score of humanity to put them to death by as simple a process as can be effected. We recommend them, instead of the pole-axe, to adopt the method employed by the Portuguese, which is as follows :—The butcher stands in front of the animal, and holding the right horn in his left hand, passes a sharp-pointed knife, about six inches in the blade, over its brow, through the vertebrae of the neck, into the spine, and in an instant it is dead. » RABBITS. “ The best way to kill rabbits is to take the hind-legs in the left hand, so as to allow the head to hang downwards. While in that position a smart blow is struck just behind the ears with a walking-stick, which causes instantaneous death. When the rabbit is very large a second blow is advisable. The jugular, or large veins of the neck, may then be cut through with a penknife, and the body hung up to bleed. Just dividing the veins of the neck without first killing the animal is a very cruel and slow death. “PIGEONS, FOWLS, DUCKS, GEESE, AND TURKEYS. “ The quickest and most painless way of destroying any of these birds is to break or dislocate the neck, all sense ofApp. HUMANE WAT TO KILL POULTRY feeling being immediately removed. The struggling which follows is not a result of pain, but reflex action. “ The operation is carried out in the following manner :— The head is taken in the right hand with the thumb against the back of it, the neck being seized with the left hand, then with a quick jerk with the right hand, the thumb being pressed downwards at the same time, the vertebrae are dislocated. Another method is to strike a sharp blow on the back of the neck with a heavy stick. Whichever process is adopted, the body may be hung up, and the large veins of the neck divided. The bird bleeds just as freely with this method as when it is bled to death without the neck being dislocated.—A. J. SEWELL, M.R.C.V.S., 53 Elizabeth Street, Eaton Square, London.”279 HOME REMEDIES WORTH KNOWING. Though remedies for sickness and tempting foods for invalids may be wanted at any time of the year, I have entered what I have got since Hildas Where is it was published, at this end of my Diary for easier reference. To Prevent Bed-sores.—Rub the skin with the juice of a lemon, white of egg, or spirits of wine. Remedy for Bed-sore.—Melt beeswax and some good Lucca oil together until it forms a soft salve. Spread on soft old linen and apply. Plaster for Boils.— I teaspoonful of honey. The yolk of an egg (raw). I teaspoonful of flour. Mix well together, spread on a linen rag, and apply fresh twice daily. Another Plaster for Boils.— Brown sugar, i teaspoonful. Some yellow soap, scraped. 10 drops of laudanum. Work with a soft knife into a paste, and spread a little on old linen with a heated knife. This is an excellent plaster for bringing a boil to a head, and the laudanum soothes the pain. Specific for Boils.—Yeast fresh after brewing is a specificHOME REMEDIES App. 280 / for boils. Drink half a wineglass filled up with water, stiired, twice a day. N.B. Gingerbread is good after it to take away taste. If brewer’s yeast is unobtainable, made barm of malt and hops is good. Buchu Leaves.—This valuable shrub {Buchu diosma, from Dios, divine, and osme, smell, and Buchu baryosmd) is indige- nous to the Cape, growing wild on the mountains of Ceres, Swellendam, etc. The leaves are largely exported to Europe, where its value as a kidney tonic is fully recognized. Buchu Vinegar.—A quarter of a pound of dried buchu leaves (they are dried in the sun, but you can buy them leady diied), one large spoonful of salt put into a wide- mouthed bottle. Fill with good vinegar, cork well, and put in the sun to get all the virtue out of the leaves ; shake the bottle daily, pour it into a smaller bottle after a fortnight, and label for use. Apply on soft cotton or lint to any bruise or sprains. Buchu Brandy, to be made in a similar way, but with brandy instead of vinegar, is excellent for sponging with to harden the skin when it is chafed, and relieves aching limbs if rubbed in well. To mix Castor-oil so that it will be imperceptible to the Patient.—Pour into a wineglass a teaspoonful of brandy or whisky, then one of cold water, then the prescribed quantity of castor-oil; then again, a teaspoonful of water, and lastly half a teaspoonful of brandy. The oil will collect in a globule in the middle of this mixture, and if the contents are taken in a gulp will be quite imperceptible. A little lemon rubbed on the edge of the wineglass is an improvement Boiled milk is also very good to take it in. Charcoal Poultice for Putrid Wounds and Ulcers.—Make aHOME REMEDIES App. 281 poultice of bread-and-water, or linseed-meal, and sprinkle on it a teaspoonful of finely-powdered vegetable charcoal. Cover with thin muslin, and apply the charcoal side to the affected part. Cough Mixture (for a cough from a cold).— 2 tablespoonfuls of grated horse-radish. I bottle of brandy. ^ lb. brown sugar-candy. I tablespoonful of dried buchu leaves. ^ lb. dried figs sliced thinly. Put all these ingredients in a glass jar, screw up the stopper, leave standing for a week, shaking and stirring occasionally. Dose: half a wineglass three times a day. Excellent for a consumptive cough. Cure for Toothache.—Mix cocaine 6o grains, i teaspoonful tincture of opium, and bottle. A tiny piece of cotton-wool steeped in this and put in the cavity of the aching tooth will give instant relief. All such powerful applications should be kept locked up, and measured out by some person, nol the patient. Overdose of Laudanum, etc.—In case of an overdose of laudanum or opium or alcohol, immediately administer an emetic of mustard-and-water, and above all keep the patient awake and in motion, slapping him with wet towels and trotting him up and down the room till a doctor can be had. For soothing Irritation of the Eyes after grit or dust has blown into them.—Put a drop of castor-oil on a feather into the eyes every hour until relieved. Eye-wash.—An ounce of boracic acid dissolved in a quart of boiling water applied morning and evening makes an excellent eye-wash. Very soothing.282 App. ' HOME REMEDIES For Hoarseness.—An infusion of eucalyptus or blue gum- leaves slightly bruised and covered with boiling water, put into a jug, and inhaled ;by the patient, is excellent. Euca- lyptus oil is very generally used now instead of the leaves. A few drops on a lump of sugar are good to eat for any chest affection. For Hoarseness in Children.—Blue-gum leaves fried in buck-fat or goat-lard, with a little turpentine to soften it, rubbed into the chest, or applied on a linen rag as a plaster, is excellent. Jaundice.—The yellow flowers of the wild hemp, known at the Cape as “ Dacha,” Cannabis sativa (the leaves of which plant used to be dried and smoked by the natives), made into a tea and taken three times a day, is most efficacious. Kidney Tonic.—Take a pinch of dried buchu leaves, make as you would ordinary tea, and take three times a day. This infusion is also very efficacious for any inflam- mation of the bladder or kidneys, and also for indigestion. For Mustard Linseed Poultice.—Take i teaspoonful of mustard, i tablespoonful linseed; mix smoothly with boil- ing water, and spread thinly with a knife on linen rag, fold- ing up the edges all round ; keep on from ten to twenty minutes, putting handkerchief next skin. A friend says, “ Mrs. R uses common mustard out of the pot, and spreads it on paper with muslin or linen over, as a rough-and-ready plaster.” The ready-made sinapine mustard or linseed leaves, to be got at any chemist’s, are well worth keeping in the house; and being in boxes keep very well. Damp surface and put handker- chief between it and skin. Mustard Plaster.—To be applied in cases of pleurisy,HOME REMEDIES App. 283 bronchitis, and deep-seated pains, and to stop severe vomiting. Apply to the chest and top of stomach. Ingredients— I tablespoonful of mustard. I tablespoonful of flour, or more according to the size required. Mix with cold water, spread thinly on a piece of old linen, and cover the side to be applied to the patient with fine washed muslin, folding the edges of the linen over the plaster all round; warm on a heated tin plate before applying. For Sore Throat—a Gargle.—The leaves of ghokum or “ Hottentot fig ” (pneseinbrya7ithei)iuin)^ bruised and strained, are excellent as a gargle. Two tablespoonfuls of the juice and a tablespoonful of honey make an excellent gargle for an ordinary ulcerated sore throat. The juice also has most cleansing and healing properties for dressing old wounds. This plant has a yellow flower.INVALID COOKERY. 284 See “ Sheep’s Brains,” p. 69, and “ Baked Orange,” p. 141. A Special Restorative.—Put 6 fresh eggs, with clean shells, whole mto a jar, earthen or glass, with air-tight lid or screw- stopper. Fill up to the brim with fresh lemon-juice, or cover the eggs with the juice; leave for six or seven days till the shells are dissolvedhy the action of the citric acid in the lemon. Now take a steel fork and prick the inner white fleece cover- ing the egg; stir all well together. Add to the eggs and lemon i pint of rum and \ lb. finest castor-sugar, stir all well, strain through a fine strainer, and put into a jar. This will keep for five or six days. It is useful to give to a patient in the last stages of consumption, or any one suffering from extreme exhaustion—every two hours a tablespoonful. Beef Tea.—Take i lb. lean gravy-beef and mince it. Put into a salt-jar with a pint of water; cover it with the close-fitting lid, put the jar in a saucepan of water in the stove-oven for three or four hours ; strain the liquid and squeeze the meat through a strainer. You ought to have two cupfuls of good beef tea from this quantity. To make apparent variety in beef tea Miss Tarleton says you may, just before taking it to the invalid, cut a slice off the breast of a good roast chicken, nice and brown, skinINVALID COOKERY App. 285 and all; pop it in and let it simmer ten minutes, and strain out before serving, and remove any grease, which is easily done with a clean piece of kitchen paper laid on the top and at once withdrawn, which brings away any grease with it. This gives the pleasant variety of chicken flavour •and yet the strength of beef tea. A slice of game can be used the same way, and you can then call it “ game soup,” which sounds more interesting ! Of course one should consult the doctor, but it has been allowed even in typhoid, when the long weeks of slops are very wearisome indeed to the patient. Pigeon Soup, for Invalids (German).— 1 pigeon, lb. veal. 2 quarts of cold-water. Boil this down to a good broth very slowly till reduced to less than half, strain and let it get cold, remove all the fat. Boil it up when required, and thicken with a little sago, or a teaspoonful of maizena rubbed in butter; add salt and pepper to taste. Invalid’s Pudding.— 2 cups of milk. 2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of maizena or flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. A pat of butter. A pinch of salt. Vanilla essence or lemon essence. Set the milk to boil in a nice clean enamelled saucepan; meantime rub flour, sugar, butter, salt, and the yolks of the eggs to a smooth paste with a spoonful of cold water, and when the milk is boiling, stir this paste into theApp. INVALID COOKERY 286 boiling milk and keep stirring for quite five minutes. Have ready the two whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth; put the froth on the top of the milk and corn-flour ciftcv it has boiled for five minutes, and leave on a cool part of the stove for about five minutes, then whisk all together lightly with a fork, passing it through the mixture three or four times. Stirring too much breaks up the whites, and prevents the pretty effects of pieces of white with the creamy mixture. This pudding may be given to a patient recovering from typhoid fever. Egg Drink (a refreshing and nourishing drink for invalids).—• The yolk of a fresh egg. 1 teaspoonful of fine sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of hot milk, pint of soda-water. Work the yolk of the egg into the sugar for five minutes, then add the warm milk, stir quite smoothly, pour into a tumbler, and fill up with soda-water. Orange Jelly (for invalids).—One oz. isinglass dissolved in just enough water to cover it, grated rind of 4 oranges, 4 teaspoonfuls of sugar (grate the rind on the sugar). Mix with isinglass, simmer over a slow fire with the strained orange juice, tumblerfuls ; a little piece of cinnamon and a slice of lemon. When it has boiled up, strain and cool. Port Wine Jelly (for invalids).— I oz. isinglass. 1 oz. gum arabic. 2 ozs. white sugar-candy. I pint of old port wine. Steep the above in half the port wine over-night. NextINVALID COOKERY App. 287 morning add the rest of the wine and boil slowly for half- an-hour. Tortoise Soup.—The edible tortoise we call sculpatje, its learned title is—Order, Chelonia reptilia. Tortoise proper belongs to sub-order or Family Testudinidae. I know of several instances where children seemed to be just wasting away 2X the ages of two and three, and have been strengthened and restored by a soup made by boiling down the whole tortoise, after chopping off its head, scrubbing it well, and then boiling it till the parts separate. The juice strained and taken. To kill a tortoise, our old cook Abraham used to scratch its back, and when the tortoise put out its head he chopped it off. The legs of the tortoise after it is boiled, and the liver (which is a special delicacy), after removing the gall-bag, eaten with lemon and pepper and salt, is much appreciated by invalids when they can take nothing else (of course it is an acquired taste). It is also very nice when scalloped with a little butter and bread-crumbs.288 NURSING HINTS. Would it not be advisable for those who expect to live in out-of-the-way places to spend a few months previously in nursing training, so as not to be entirely ignorant of the elements of what good nursing means? Training in a hospital for children would also not be time wasted. Nursing Hints. Here are some practical nursing hints, mostly from a lady (Miss Tarleton) of much experience with invalids. To put coals on fire noiselessly.—“ Of course you know of the plan of having a housemaid’s glove, which is easily slipped on, by the coal-scuttle, so as to take up individual pieces of coal if the fire has to be kept in—it makes less noise. Some people have the coal brought in wrapped up in a piece of newspaper, and put on a packet at a time, but I prefer gloves, as the coal sometimes falls when the paper burns (rag would be better than paper). You can often encourage a fire to burn up and avoid the ciackling of sticks by putting a piece of lump sugar in the fire, as it burns with a good deal of flame.” Cold hands disagreeable.—“ I always warm my hands on a jug of hot water before changing sheets or touching my patient. Fanning is another thing which requires a little practice •App. NURSING HINTS 289 u 7iever fan backwards and forwa^'ds^ it blows the air back again, and is suffocating when breath is short. Fan from above, dozvnwards, which is least trouble to the breath. “ Sponging the patient’s hands is often a great relief— when done slowly—one finger at a time, and specially the front of the wrist, in lukewarm water, with a little eau-de- cologne or rose-water strong scent); it will sometimes send a feverish patient to sleep. It gives them no trouble ; there is no paraphernalia, only perhaps one end of a soft towel wet and the other dry. “ Bran Poultice.—Bran and salt made very hot in a bag of thin material is effective as a poultice. (One could have two bags and use them alternately.) “ I have found it useful to prepare beforehand something to say—to tell—even a fairy tale—when you are going to do the morning toilette or anything wearisome. Even if your patient does not listen, the voice is soothing, and takes off attention from the discomfort. “Nurses should never whisper.—Never whisper in a sick- room ; it disturbs the patient, who makes an effort to hear ; merely speak low in an ordinary voice.” Fomentation of Poppy Heads and Camomile Flowers.— Ingredients— 4 ozs. poppy heads. 2 ozs. camomile flowers, pints boiling water. Break the heads, pour boiling water over them, boil for six or seven minutes, add the camomile flowers, boil for three minutes longer, strain, and keep it hot; dip pieces of flannel into the mixture and apply externally to the affected parts. For face-ache this is excellent.HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 290 Glove-cleaning^ Fluid.— I gallon deodorized benzine. I oz. chloroform. ^ oz. sulphate of ether. I oz. alcohol. Mix all well together ; put the gloves on and clean on the hand with a flannel rag. One wineglassful of fluid will clean a pair of gloves. When cleaned draw off the gloves and dry them on a bath towel. Water Supply.—Where constant natural springs do not exist, artesian wells, tanks for rain-water, dams and other ways are resorted to for a good supply. It is a good plan to send a specimen of well or spring water to be tested by a good chemist before using for drinking supply; or whenever there is any doubt of the purity of the water, always to boil what is used not only for drinking but for washing-up purposes and cooking. No addition of spirits, etc., makes water more wholesome to drink. Sanitary Arrangements.—Health is so important that the following extract may be useful to those at a distance from towns— “ The safest arrangements for the country are no doubtHOUSEHOLD HINTS App. 291 some description of earth closet, of which many excellent kinds exist—as earth is itself a great disinfectant. “ If nothing else is possible, a quite simple plan is two iron buckets, which can be kept quite clean and limewashed constantly (and used alternately), with the usual wooden seat. An old coal-scuttle full of earth and a scoop to put it on with is kept in the shed used, the earth being kept under cover or specially dried. All must be kept as dry as possible—no slops should be emptied in an earth closet. “ A trench is dug in a corner of the garden and the pails emptied into that and filled over.” To Clean Old Silver.—Make a paste of cream-of-tartar and cold water. Spread this on the silver thickly and wrap up in flannel; leave for a week. Wash well in clean water, and the silver will appear as bright and, clean as when new. A friend says—“ If your silver is very much discoloured, I would advise you to boil it with spirits of ammonia and water (in an earthen vessel). If not very black, brushing with a plate-brush and some ammonia will do.” Probably the former would be best for filigree silver, which hard brushing might injure, or you might try a little whiting, moistened with methylated spirits, put on and left to dry, and then brushed off with 2.soft brush; it cleans ordinary silver well. Stains on silver, caused by medicine and neglect, can be removed by using a little sulphuric acid with a soft flannel pad, and carefully rinsing the silver at once in clean water. , For less ingrained stains the pulp of a lemon, well rubbed in and then washed off, is good, and the silver, when dried, should be cleaned with ordinary plate polish to brighten. Traveller’s Aid and TJ. B. W. E. A.—A useful hint of anotherHOUSEHOLD HINTS App. 292 kind to girls going home and not having many friends to make such arrangements for them, is to mention that the Travelle}^s Aid Society (3, Baker Street, London) are always ready, with four clear days’ notice before arrival, to meet eirls or women at train or steamer and tell them of safe lodgings or otherwise see them on their way. The object of the Society is to guard 5/oung women as they move from place to place, and they have agents in London, South- ampton, and other large towns at home and abroad, and placards at most large stations in England giving names of local helpers. In these days of “running to and fro” the address of their head office is one to keep, and their annual report is a pamphlet of vivid interest; in it will be also found the terms, which vary from \s. to 5^-. for meeting the travellers. Young women going to the Colonies would do well to x consult the United British Womeds Emigration Association, which publishes much interesting information on our differ- ent Colonies, and through whom beneficial arrangements can be made as to passages and advice had as to where to go, etc. The office is at the Imperial Institute, London.INDEX Agricultural College, 31 department Journal, 118 Alcohol, remedy, 281 Almond cake, 167 pudding, 95, 153 Almonds, burnt, 213 “Ambrosia,” or lemon solid, 130 Anchovy toast, 148 Another breakfast dish, 192 Appendix, 261 Apple jelly, 252 pudding, paste for, 209 rings in batter, 72 sauce, 152 snow, 253 Apples a la Dauphine, 102 a la Frangipane, 103 • Milford, 103 See Pommes a la Russe Apricot cream, 40 peach. See Yellow Peach preserving, 40 Apricots. See Mebos and rice cream, 231 April, loi Artesian wells, 38 Artichokes, Jerusalem, 83 Aspic, 250-1 Atjaar, 63 August, 175 Autumn, 81 Bacon. See Another breakfast dish Baked custard, 211 Banana, 192 pudding, 17s Banana salad, 153 Barley water, 234 Batter, 72 Beans, green, to keep, 44 Bed-sores, to prevent and remedy, 279 Beef, corned, 236 fillets de Romano, 215 fritters, 72 gravy for, 197 sauce, for hashes, 152 steak, 128 tea, 284 Beefsteak pie, 179 pudding, 209 See Polonies Begonias, 46 Bengal chutney, 104 Berg River, 242 Birthday cake, 86 Biscuits, “brawn,” 86 cocoanut, 247 lemon, 168 " Vienna, 86 Blackberries, legends about, 24S Blackberry jelly, 248 pudding and fool, 248 Blatjang, 68 “ Blind hare, ” 197 Boiled chicken, celery sauce for, 151 Boils, plasters, and specific for, 279 Brains, sheep’s, 69 Braised lettuces, 191 Bran poultice, 289 Brandied grapes, 59 Brawn, sheep’s trotters, 144 Bread-and-butter pudding, 150INDEX 294 Bread-making, 15, 33-34 Bread, plum, 149 pudding, 169 raisin, 246 See Yeast Bruises, 280 Buchu leaves, brandy, vinegar, 280 Burnt almonds, 213 cream, 117 Butter, green, 253 to keep cool, 50 Cabbage, chartreuse, 74 red pickled, 63 “ Cabeljon ” fish, 106 Cake, almond, 167 birthday, 86 chocolate, 87 for cattle, 155. Salang icing for, 244 jumbles, 244 lady, 181 nut, 203 ribbon, 243 rock, 244 sponge, 206 tea. See Jumbles See Vienna biscuits Calves, to kill, 275 Calves’ feet. See Mock turtle and Sheep’s trotters Cape fish, names of, 261 gooseberry, 162 jam, 162 salmon, 65 Caramel custard, 147 Carnations, continental way of grow- ing, also green, 45 Castor-oil, to mix, 280 Celery leaves, to fry, 152 sauce, 151 Charcoal poultice for ulcers, 280 Cheese, lemon, 131 cakes, 208 macaroni, 180 pudding, 151, 165 savouiy, 148 straws, 165 Cheeses, seasons for, 94 Chestnut pudding, 81 Chestnut snow, 82 stuffing, 170 See Chipolata Chicken, Neapolitan, 164 rice balls of cold, 193 sauce for. See Celery sauce to fatten, 94 to incubate, 116 Chipolata, 82 Chocolate cake, 87 icing, 247 Chops, stewed, 213 Christmas picnics, 235 preparation for, 223 Chutney, Bengal, 104 mango, 104 Circulating library of cookery books, etc., 90 Citron preserve, 127 Cleaning jam-pots, 39 Club, the Recipe, no Coals, put on noiselessly, 288 Cocoanut biscuits, 154, 247 pudding, 108 Coffee essence, 12 French way of making;, 130 icing, 169 Lapland method, 146 Cokos, 234 Cold chicken, rice balls of, 193 curry, 135 fish, 142, 192, 207 ham, 193 lamb, to dress, 165 meat, supper dish of, 205 storage for meat, 144 water pudding, 246 Colour of stewed pears, 85 Comfyt, lemetjes, 63 Cook, learn to, 70-72 Cookery books, list of, 95-6 invalid, 284-7 “Cooking bee,” 178 Corned beef, 236 / mutton, 107 Cough mixture, 281 Country produce, sale of, 110-17 Cowslip wine, 60 Crabs, to kill, 273 Crayfish, or kreeft, 47INDEX 295 Crayfish, curry, 66 Cream, apricot, 40 burnt, 117 cheese, 130 fairy, 182 lemon, 132 rice, and apricot, 231 sauce, 44 stone, 129 tapioca, 95 Cricket field, drink, 233 Crust for beefsteak pie, 179 short, 208 Crystallized mebos, 89 Cucumber. See Gherkin pickle, 61 soup, 221 Cup paste, 209 Curds, lemon, 204 Curry, cold, 135 crayfish, 66 fish. See Penang pie, II7 sheep’s trotters, 146 Custard, baked, 211 caramel, 147 Cutlets in paper, 128 Daily duties, 24 Dairy, 9 farms, 31 Date pudding, 154 salad, 156 use for, in Arabia, 155 December, 231 Dish, for picnics, 236 Dishes, notes on, 109 Domestic subjects, library of, 90 Donkeys fed on dates, 155 “ Dorthesia,” 161 Dried flowers, 245 Drink for hay and harvest field, 233 Drop cakes, 247 Duck, apple sauce for, 152 stuffing for, 169 Ducks, to kill, 277 Dutch herring salad, 196 Earth closets, 290 Egg-drink for invalids, 286 Egg-flip, 8 Eggs and kidneys, 106 collection and sale of, 115 Penguin, 196 Elft fish, 192 Eye irritation, 281 Face-ache, fomentation for, 289 Fairy cream, 182 Farms, loi February, 57 Ferns, watered with tea, 204 Figs, green fig preserve, 64, 231 Fillets de Romano, beef, 215 Fire, to light in the open, 238 Firewood, 30 Fish as marinade, 106 au gratin, 143 “ cabeljon,” 106 Cray, 66-7 curry, Penang, 66 Elft, 192 flavouring sauce for, 151 galjeon, 163 “geelbek,”or Cape salmon, 65 Government trawlers, 46 “Hottentot,” 192 ■ in season. See each Month in white sauce, 85 “marinade,” 106 names of Cape, 261 pie, 207 Quin’s sauce for, 134 “Roman,” 163 ■ salad, cold, 142 sambal, 106 sardines, devilled, 215 scallop, 205 “ silver,” 47 “smoorfish,” 65 “snoek,” 105 “ steenbrass,” 192 stockfish,” 192 to do up cold, 142, 192, 207 ■ white sauce for, 85 Zambal, 106 Flower-holder, wire, 183 Flowers, dried, 245 sweet-scented, 189 wild, 189-9I5 240INDEX “Flummery,” 133 Fool, blackberry or mulberry, 248 Fourre polonais, 149 Fowl, how to cook an old hen, 163. See Chicken Fowls, to kill, 277 Fritters, pineapple, 176 Fruit growing, 31 in season. See each Month packing, 111 pudding, 196 salad, 126 tarts and crust separate, 49 tinned, 94 to store for winter, 81 Game, gravy for, 197 Gardening, in South Africa, Gowie, 38 Gargle, 283 Geelbek, or Cape salmon, 65 Geese, to kill, 277 Geneva pastry, 148 Geranium, wijd scarlet, 242 German tart, 179 crust for, 179 Gherkin preserve, 252 Ginger-beer, two recipes for, 232-3 Gingerbread, fruit, 73 honeycomb, 88 “ parkyn,” 72, 225 “ Talke o’ the Hill,” 73 with brown flour, 72 Ginger pudding, 246 Girdle, or griddle. See Scones Glaze, 133 Glove cleaning, 290 Good Daughter’s Pudding, 209 Gooseberry, Cape, 162 jam, 162 Goose, stuffing for, 169 Gouna, 7 Grape jam, 7, 59 Grapes, 20 brandied, 59 preserved, 42 Gravy, a nice, 197 for game, 197 to keep in, 93 Green beans, 44 carnations, 45 Green fig preserve, 64, 231 grenadilla preserve, 176 mealies, 58 roses, 46 Grenadilla preserve, 176 Groote Poste. See “My Old Home,” 1-24 Grouse, 94 Guava, 125, 142, 161 jelly, 125 mould, 126 Haarders, or Cape herrings, au gratin, 143 Dutch herring salad, 196 Ham, cold, to do up, 193 potted, 193 Hampers, 236-7 Hare, “blind,” 197 cream, 76 hashed. 74 roast, German, 75 Plarvest, 22 field, drink for, 233 Hasty pudding, 150 Hayfield, 233 Hazel jars, 40 Plen jelly, 74 to cook an old, 163 Pierring salad, 196 Herrings, sauce for, 152 High tea, a dish for, 211 Ploarseness, 282 Home, My Old, 1-24 remedies, 279-83 Ploneycomb gingerbread, 88 Hopkos, 234 Horses, knee-haltering, 230, 243 “ Hottentot” fish, 192 House-rent, 30 Plouses, colonial, 31 Hydrangeas, 141 Ice-cream water-melon preserve, 62 Icing, chocolate, 247 coffee, 169 for cake, 244 Vanilla, 88 Incubating chickens, 116 Indian corn salad, 58INDEX 297 Invalid, dish for. See Sheep’s brains Invalid’s pudding, 285 Jam, Cape gooseberry, 162 grape, 7, 59 lemon, 163 orange, 166 peach, 59 tomato, 59 Jam-pots, to clean, 39 January, 29 Jaundice, 282 Jelly, apple, 252 aspic, 250-1 blackberry, 248 currant, 248 Guava, 125 hen, 74 meat, 249 orange, 181, 286 port wine, 286 sav'oury or aspic, 249-51 Jerusalem artichokes, 83 Joints, time to allow to cook, 93 July, 161 “Jumbles” cake, 244 June, 141 “Kaffirfinks,” 4 Kidney disease, tonic for, 282 Kidneys and eggs, 106 and mashed potatoes, 2li Kill, to, calves, rabbits, poultry, 275-78 Kitchen-garden, a pretty, 68 Knee-halter, how to, a horse, 239 Kreeft. See Crayfish Lady cake, 181 Lamb, to do up cold, 165, 205 Lambs, 8 Laundrywork, 30 Leg of mutton a la Neapolitan, 213 for picnics, 236 Lemetjes. See Limes Lemon biscuits, 168 cheese, 131 cheese-cakes, 208 cream, 132 curds, 204 Lemon, jam, 163 sago, 182 solid, 130 Lemonade, 234 Lemons, 163 Lettuce, braised, 191 Library of cookery books, 90-1 Limes (lemetjes) sauce, 63 (lemetjes comfyt), to preserve, 63 Limpet soup. See Periwinkle Linseed poultice, 282 , Lobster, scalloped, 47 to kill mercifully, 273 Locusts, to destroy, 263-7 Loquats, 231 Lucerne, 67 Macaroni cheese, 180 ‘ ‘ Maggi, ” for soups, 93 Mango chutney, 104 Manure, poultry, 46, 102 Maps, old, 20 March, 81 Marinade, German, io6 Market, 64 Marmalade, 88. See Orange jam Marrow soup, 221 vegetable, preserve, 222 Mashed potato and kidneys, 211 May, 125 Mayonnaise sauce for bananas, 153 German, 198 Mealies, green, 58 Meat, indigestible with tea, 211 jelly, savoury, 249 Mebos, to ciystallize, 89 Medlar jelly, 127 Melon preserve, 64 Milan souffle, 132 Milk, sour, 194 thick, 194 to.sterilize, 29, n. Mince-meat, 223 pies, 224 Mock turtle ragout, 194 Moss bolletjes, 6 Mulberry fool, 248 Mustard, plaster and poultice, 282 Mutton, corned, 107 gravy for, 197INDEX 298 Mutton, Neapolitan leg of, 213 patties, 236 sauce for, 153 My Old Home, 1-24 Names of Cape fish, 261 Natal, 270-2 Neapolitan chicken, 164 leg of mutton, 213 Notes of Dishes, 109 on other parts of Africa, 268 November, 221 Nursing hints, 288-9 Nut cake, 203 October, 203 “Oidium” 118 Old-fashioned sweetmeat, 208 Ombersley sauce, 152 “ One man’s meat another man’s poison,” 212 Onions, preservative uses of, 83 Orange, baked, 141 in season, 192 jam, 166. 6’^^ Marmalade jelly, 182, 286 pudding, 182 salad, 156 tart, 141 trees and blight, 161 Orange River Colony, 268 Oranges and lemons, 286 Ostriches, 22, 243 Other parts of South Africa, 268 Overdose, laudanum, etc., 281 Ox-marrow, 72 Packing of fruit, value of careful, 112 Palestine soup, 83 Pangar fish, 142, 143 Paraffin stoves, 29 Parkyn, 72, 225 Parsley, to sow, 67 Parsnips, 57 Paste and pastry, 49, 207-11 cup, 209 for fruit tarts, 209 for meat pies, 210 for roly-poly, apple, or beef- steak pudding, 209 Paste, fourre polonais, 149 Pastry, Geneva, 148 Pastry, light, 210 lining for custard pudding, 210 short crust, 208 tough, to avoid, 93 Patties, mutton, 236 Peach, yellow, pickle, 59 Pears, baked, 84 colour of stewed, 85 in jelly, 85 preserving, 42 saffron, 42 stewed, and quince, 84 stewed, to make good red, 85 Pekelaar salad (snoek), 142 Penang, 66 Penguin egg savoury, 196 Periwinkle soup, 168 Pickle, cucumber, 61 red cabbage, 63 yellow peach, 59 Picnics, 11-13 dish for, 236 Pie, beefsteak, 179 curry, 117 fish, 207 quail, 214 Pigeons, to kill, 277 Pigeon-soup for invalids, 285 Pineapple, 192 fritters, 176 jam, 192 preserve, 176 Plantain. See Banana Plaster for boils, 279 mustard, 282 Ploughing, 9 Plum bread, 149 pudding, plain and rich, 224 Plums, preserving. See Apricots Polonies, 214 Pommes a la Russe, 245 Pontac sago, 183 and sago shape, 183 Pork, 177 sauce for. See Apple sauce . Port wine jfelly, 286 Potato, Gerarde’s description of, 57 sweet, 105INDEX Pot-pourri, 253 Potted ham, 193 Poultice, bran, 289 Poultry, care of, 34-S gravy for, 197 Preserve, citron, 127 gherkin, 252 green fig, 64, 231 green grenadilla, 176 ice-cream water-melon rind, 62 limes, to, 63 marrow, 222 pineapples, to, 176 vegetable-marrow, 222 Preserving, apricots, 40 grapes, 42 saffron pears, 42 —— secret of sirccessful, 41 strawberries, 41 Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 195 Produce, sale of country, 110-17 Protea, creeping, 189 Pudding, almond, 95, 153 baked custard, 211 banana, 175 beefsteak, 209 blackberry, 248 bread, 169 bread-and-butter, or jam, 150 cheese, 165 Christmas, 209 cocoanut, 108 cold water, 246 date, 154 fairy cream, or orange, 182 fruit, 196 ginger, 246 Good Daughter’s Christmas, 209 hasty, 150 invalid’s, 285 orange, 182 plum (plain and rich), 224 roly-poly, 209 sago and pontac, 183 snow, 49 St. Lucia (without eggs), 198 Swiss roll, 180-1 thick milk, 194 Quail pie, 214 Quince and pear, stewed, 84 Quince jam, 84 sambal, 84 Quin’s sauce, 134 Rabbits, to kill, 277 Ragout, mock turtle, 194 Raisin bread, 246 making, 7 yeast, 34 Rations of farm hands, 9 Recipe Club, no Red cabbage pickle, 63 Restorative, 284 Ribbon cake, 243 Rice balls of cold chicken, 193 cream and apricots, 231 Rice, tomatoes, and truffles, 57 Risotto, 133-34 Rock cakes, 244 Roll. See Swiss roll Roly-poly. See Paste “Roman’’fish, 163 Romano, fillets de, 215 Rose trees, 163 Roses, green, 46 Rout drops, 149 Saffron pears, 42 Sago, lemon, 182 and pontac shape, 183 Salad, banana, 153 cold fish, 142 date and orange, 156 Dutch herring, 196 fruit, 126 Indian corn, 58 snoek pekelaar, 142 Salang, 155 Sale of country produce, 110-17 Salmon, Cape, geelbek, 65 sauce for, 152 Salt with sour oranges, 161 Sambal, fish. See Zambal quince, 84 Sandwiches. Blackberry jelly Sanitary arrangements, 290 Sardine, savoury, 215 Sasaties, 238 Sauce, apple, 152INDEX 300 Sauce, banana, 153 celery, 151 cream, 44 currant, for venison, 153 for fillets de Romano, 215 for hashed beef, 152 for herrings or salmon, 152 for venison and wild fowl, 153 limes (lemetjes), 63 mayonnaise, 153, 198 ombersley, 152 Quin’s, for flat fish, 134 tomato, 59 white, for fish, 85 Sausage-meat stuffing, 170 Sausage-roll, 209 Savoury and aspic jelly, 249-51 cheese, 148 penguin egg, 196 See Sardine Scallop, fish, 205 Scalloped lobster, or kreeft, 47 Scones, 180 September, 189 Servants, 24 native, not for children, 32-3, 272 wages, 32, 272 Shaddock, 125 Shape, sago and pontac, 183 Sheep’s’brains, 69 heart, 48 trotters, 144 brawn, 144 curried, 146 in batter, 145 stewed, 145 Sheep dipping, 5 Short crust, 208 Shortest day, 141 Silver, to clean, 291 Silver fish, 47 Smoorfish, 65 Snake-bites, 42-3 Snoek, fish, 105 pekelaar salad, 142 Snow apples, 253 pudding, 49 Soap, 23 Sore throat gargle, 283 Souffle, Milan, 132 Soup, cucumber or marrow, 221 limpet, or periwinkle, 168 Palestine, 83 pigeon, 285 tortoise, for children, 287 Sour milk, 194 South Africa, notes on other parts of, 268-72 Sponge-cake, 206 Sprain. See Buchu St. Lucia pudding, 198 Steaks from undercut of beef, 128 Steenbrass, or brassine, 192 Sterilizing milk, 29, n. Stewed chops, 213 Stockfish, 47, 106, 142, 192 Stokos, 233 Stone cream, 129 Storing fruit, 81 Stove, paraffin, 29 Strawberries, 31 preserved, 41 Straws, cheese, 165 Stuffing for duck, turkey, and goose, 169-70 chestnut, 170 sausage-meat, 170 Stump nose fish. See Fish au gratin Summer, 221 Sunflowers, for feeding poultry, for oil, seeds eaten in Russia, 204 Supper dish of cold meat, 205 Sweetmeat, an old-fashioned, 208 Sweet potatoes, 105 Swiss roll, 180 Talke o’ the Hill gingerbread, 73 Tapioca cream, 95 Tart, German, 179 Tea, to water ferns, 204 Tea-cakes, 247. See also Titiens and Jumbles Thick milk pudding, 194 Threshing, 5 Time to allow for cooking joints, 93 Tinned fruit, 94 Titiens, 'Welsh tea-cakes, 135 Tomato and chicken cream, 74 sauce, 59INDEX Tomatoes, rice, and truffles, 57 Tongvfe, to pot, 193 Tonic for kidneys, 282 Toothache cure, 281 Tortoises, 198, 287 Trackers, 74 Transvaal, 268-70 Traveller’s aid, 291 Trotters brawn, 144 curried, 146 in batter, 145 sheep’s, 144 stewed, 145 Turkey, stuffing for, 169 Turkeys, to kill, 277 _ Turnips, boil with onions, 83 Turtle, mock, 194 Ulcers. See Charcoal Under-cut, steaks from, 128 United British Women’s Emigration Association, 292 Vanilla icing, 88 Vegetables. See each Month Venison, currant sauce for, 153. See Sauce for hashed beef Vienna biscuits, 86 Vineyards, 118 Violets, 31 Washing-day, 24-6 Water storing, 38 Water-melons, to preserve, 62, 64 Welsh Titiens, 135 West India cakes. See Jumbles White meat, to cook, 93 sauce for fish, 85 Wild flowers, 189-91, 240-42, 245 Wild fowl, sauce for. See Sauce for hashed beef Wine-making, 6 cowslip, 60 Winter begins, 125 clothes, 125, 161 Wounds, 280, 283 Xmas pudding. Good Daughter’s, 209 Yeast, a specific for boils, 279 hops, 33 raisin, 34 Yellow peach pickle, 59 Zambal, fish, 106 quince, 84 the end} i Richard Clay & Sons, Limited, London & Bungay.CHAPMAN AND HALL, Ld., LONDON. THE WORKS OF THOMAS CARLYLE The Library Edition. In 34 volu?nes, demy Sw, red cloi/i, js. 6d. and gs. The Centenary Edition. Edited, with Introductions, by H. D. Traill, D.C.L. In 30 volumes, square crown Zvo. Price 3J. 6^. per volume. The People’s Edition. In 37 volumes, small crown Zvo, red cloth. Separate volumes, it. Cheap Issue. In \ \ volumes, crown Zvo, bound in blue cloth, .2^1 4-*'- The Chelsea Edition. In special red cloth binding, ii volumes, with gilt tops, 5T. net. The French Revolution : A HISTORY. Co7nplete in one volume. With Illustrations. Demy Zvo, This edition of “The French Revolution” is printed from large modem type on full demy paper, is complete in one volume of 820 pages, and contains many illustrations reproduced from pictures depicting the stirring times of the period. It is well bound, and forms a handsome book suitable for prize or library. Uniform with above. Sartor Resartus, AND ON HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP. With Portraits of Carlyle, Shakespeare, Knox, Johnson, and Napoleon. Demy Zvo, 5t.CHAPMAN AND HALL, Ld., LONDON. THE WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS The Authentic Edition. In 21 volumes, square crown 8vo, with all Original Illustrations and a coloured Frontispiece. ■ Price 5J. per volu7ne. The Oxford India Paper Dickens. In 17 volumes, foolscap 8vo, with all Original Illustrations. Price 2J. (id. net per volu77ie., cloth, a7id 3^. bd. net per volu7ne in leather. The Crown Edition. In 17 volumes, large crown 8vo, maroon cloth, containing all the Original Illustrations. Separate volu77ies, 5^. The Half-Crown Edition. In 21 volumes, crown 8vo, blue cloth. Original Illustrations. Separate vohi77ies, 'zs. 6d. The “ Charles Dickens ” Edition. In 21 volumes, crown 8vo, red cloth, with Illustrations by Phiz, Cattermole, Cruikshank, Marcus Stone, etc., etc. 3J., 3^. 6d., and qj'. The Shilling Edition. In 21 volumes, each with Frontispiece. Separate volu77ies, u. Co77iplete sets in special binding, 21 volu77ies, gilt top, in sets only, £x u. net.