Saint Pancras Public Libraries. Camden Town Branch 18, Camden Street, N.W. 1. \ (EUSton 1976) The Ho me-Rea cling Library is open from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. Mc^lay to Friday (inclusive) and from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on San(rday The time alhr^^d for reading each work issued, whether one volume or mc^e, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within thafVperiod, a fine of twopence for the first week or portion\f a week, and fourpence for each succeeding week or portVn of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious Ndisease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, bul must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at thXtime of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public He^h Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn Road, W.C.lX Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friqay ; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. \ No book can be issued unless th^yeader's ticket is presented or a book returned. No book^n be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. \ Changes of address of readers or of their roonsors must be notified within one week of such change. \ Readers leaving the Borough or ceasing t\ use the Libraries are required to return their ticketsMo the Librarian, otherwise they will be held responsible »or all liabilities incurred. \ Readers are required to keep the books clean, \o refrain from turning down the leaves, or making pencil or other marks upon them. They must report any damage or injury done to the books they receive, otherwise they will be held accountable for the same. LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cooker>’ Camden fLondon Borough of Camden S.-iss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NWS 3HA Tel 01-278 4444 Extensions; Book Renewals S021 Lending Library SOI2 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please asik fnr details of renewal facilities). charged on overdue books - j ^ I Lending Library hoursflV)dhT"ri'"9,36-8 -Set Q!30-5 1 LA 104Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://arch ive.org/detai Is/b215381411 j Ntl ■i j<THE NEW Century Cookery Book PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY AND RECHERCHE COOKERY I BY i CHARLES HERMAN SENN FORMERLY OF THE REFORM CLUB INSPECTOR AND CONSULTING CHEF NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY, lONDON, 1S92—I90S MEMBER OF THE ACADEMIE DK CUISINE, PARIS GOLD MEDALLIST, AND DON OF THE ORDER OF “ LE CORDON ROUGE’' THIRD ENLARGED EDITION LONDON, S.W. THE FOOD & COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, WESTMINSTER WARD, LOCK & CO., LIMITED, SALISBURY SQUARE, E.C. MCMIX All rights reservedT^, 3 09 4 4 1I3CV 1Ro\:al H.Mtibncss THE PRINCESS OF WALES ^VHOSE INTEREST IN COOKERY AND OTHER BRANCHES OR DOMESTIC SCIENCE AMONG ALL CLASSES HAS ENDEARED HER TO THE NATION THIS WORK IS BY HER GRACIOUS PERMISSION MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY HER HUMBLE AND OBEDIENT SERVANT CHARLES HERMAN SENNPREFACE. The unprecedented success and the cordial reception enjoyed by my works entitled “ Practical Gastronomy ” and “ Recherche Cookery ” have encouraged me to produce the present volume, in which these former publications have been embodied in a greatly enlarged form, and most of the chapters have been entirely I'e-written so as to bring the book into line with the requirements of the present day. Scientific research and constant observation in culinary routine have proved that both Cookery and Gastronomy are progressive arts ; indeed, scarcely a week passes which does not bring to the notice of a careful observer some new combination or some improvement iii standard dishes. In view of these facts, and in order to increase its general utility, simplicity and economy have been adopted as the criteria for every recipe included in this book. It may safely be said that it is only within the last thirty years that Cookery as a fine art has been recognised and developed in this country, and it is now generally acknowledged that English Cookery, in its higher accomplishments, has undergone a beneficial change during that period, and this improvement is chiefly due to a better knowledge and appreciation of French and other Continental recipes. * In the present work, every branch of Cookery, without distinc- tion, from the simplest to the most recherche, has been included, and detailed instructions are given to enable anyone with a little culinary knowledge to prepare the dishes by following the directions. I have endeavoured to indicate all the elementary stages in the preparation of good household cookery, so that ample provision is made for simple and dainty family meals, as well as for those of a more elaborate character. A new and special feature is the introduction of half-tone illustra- tions produced from photographs of the actual dishes, whereby the correct dressing and appearance of some of the most important plats are faithfully reproduced. A great number of these dishes were prepared by me, or under my direction, at the National Training School of Cookery. The majority of the books on Cookery which have been recently given to the public—many of which are excellent in their way—lack one essential point : a translation of the langiic dc cuisine. And numerous French phrases and technical terms now in constant use are seldom properly understood. The vocabulary of such terms comprises over three thousand words and phrases. In the present work these are translated andf) THE NEU' CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. explained and details of the origin and history of the more interesting are also given. It is chielly to enable those engaged in the practice or in the superintendence of high-class Cookery to compose a menu, and to give each dish its correct name—whether in English or French— that my first book was written. I have always held the opinion that in cases where it is thought necessary to give French names to the dishes this should be done as concisely as possible, by the use of that peculiar French which is the language of Cookery. 1 have therefore given comprehensive descriptions of the French dishes named in this book. The headings to each list of the various kinds of comestibles have been given in French and English, and will assist the inexperienced to compile a bill of fare correctly, enabling them to supersede the French names (often ridiculously spelt) wherever jrossible by intelli- gible English ones, when such a course is ])referred. With a view to rendering the work as complete as possible, a series of some two hundred Specimen Menus for simple and recherche family meals, &c., has been inserted in l£nglish, h'rench, and other languages. These include examples of fixed-price luncheons, dinners, (S:c., such as are served in Lonclon Clubs, Hotels, and Restaurants. few historical and classical Menus, which will interest students of history, have also been added to this collection. A list of (piotations from the works of standard authors, useful in the comi)ilation of menus for special occasions, brings this section to a close. I desire to make my grateful acknowledgments to se\’cral of my confreres who from time to time have afforded me c'aluable informa- tion which has been a groat help to me in the execution of the present work. Among these 1 would specially mention the late IMonsieur Chas. Ranhofer (for thirty years chef of Delmonico’s, New York) ; Monsieur Louis Chevriot (ex-chef to Her late iMajesty Queen Victoria and to H.M. the King of Spain) ; to Monsieur Juste Menager (chef to His Majesty King Edward \TI.) ; to .Monsieur H. Cedard (chef to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales) ; to Monsieur F. Gnoepff (late chef to H.l.M. the Emperor of Austria) ; to the late iMonsieur Urbain Dubois (for many years chef to the Emperor William 1.) ; to Monsieur P. Cubat (maitre d’hotel to H.l.M. the Czar of Russia) ; to Monsieur C. j. Corblet (late chef to Madame Hischoffsheim) ; to Monsieur A. Fscolher (chef, Carlton Hotel, London) ; to Monsieur A. Coste (chef. Hotel Cecil, London); to Monsieur A. iMever (Knickerbocker Club, New York) ; to Monsieur A. Suzanne (for many years chef to the Duke of Bedford) ; to IMonsieur A. iMoser (chef to H.i\I. the King of Norway) ; and to Mr. Arthur Edmunds, B.Sc., F.R.C.S. (who kindly contributed the article on the Science of Cookery). C. H. S. London : March, 1904.INTRODUCTION TO THE THIRD ENLARGED EDITION. SOME live years have passed since the hrst enlarged edition of this book was issued. A reprint of the original book was exhausted, and still the demand continued. But five years in a living Art such as Cookery have brought about many changes, and I therefore decided to practically re-cast the whole work. In this enlarged edition much that is trew has been introduced. While the fundamental principles underlying Cookery and Gastronomy, already dealt with in the earlier editions, and the numerous recipes for dishes of the Old School have been retained, the result of present- day practice occupies the main part of the book, which now contains over 5,000 Recipes, Methods, and Menus. As in former issues of this work, I have again availed myself of the kind assistance so readily accorded to me by several of the leading Maitre Chefs of the day. I have further largely drawn upon the long series of practical Demonstrations in High-class Cookery given by me at the National Training School of Cookery, most of the dishes introduced and demonstrated by me there during this and previous seasons being included. This has enabled me to illustrate the text with over 300 photographs, the majority of which are photographic reproductions of actual dishes, a feature which has been so much appreciated in the former editions. Poe- tically all the dishes described will be found to respond to the increasing demand for dainty, nourishing, yet light fare. In further response to this wise change in fashion, I have added chapters on special Vegetable and Farinage Dishes, as well as other dishes suitable not only for those who are professed Vegetarians and Fruitarians, but also for the very numerous class who desire to have some “ maigre ” dishes at all times as well as rigorous Lenten diet in due season. It has been my aim to show in these chapters that the same rules which apply to High-class Cookery generally can be brought to bear on Meatless Fare and Vegetarian Cookery, so that these dishes may be pleasing to the eye and palate as well as nourishing to the system. I have availed myself of this opportunity to introduce various ^ improvements in the text, my aim being to make the work an up-to-date, comprehensive, and thoroughly practical repertory of the Art of Cookery of the Twentieth Century. London: August, 1909.l ACSIMII.E OF THE Goi,l> MeDAL CONI ERRED AS A MARK OF DISTINCTION ON C. HKKMAN SENS' i!V THE International Cookery Kxhihitton HELD AT \'IKNNA IN igo6, AS A Special Prize FOR “The New Century Cookery Book.’’ Paris, 1890. Vienna, 1898. Turin, 1903. Paris, 1891. followiiuj H\varC>s bare been mabe to C. HERMAN SENN tor CuUuar\? Xiteraturc: GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1890 and 1891. GOLD MEDAL, MANCHESTER, 1892. GOLD MEDAL, VIENNA, 1898. GOLD MEDAL, TURIN, 1903. PRIX D’HONNEUR and SPECIAL GOLD MEDAL, VIENNA, 1906. GRAND PRIX, PARIS ACADEMIE DES SCIENCES.CONTENTS. {For General Index and Index of Ilhistrations see end of book.) PREFACE INTRODUCTORY The Art of Cookery ; its present aims and objects. CHAPTER I. THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY The chemistry of food—The philosophy of cookery—Food elements and their combinations. II. MARKETING The choice of food—Advice on buying—Modes of cutting up meat, prices, and weights—Guide for ordering and hints on meats, poultry, game, fish, vegetables, fruit, and provisions. III. CALENDAR OF FOODS IN SEASON When various articles of food are in their prime, alphabetically arranged—Popular accompaniments with dishes—Table of adjuncts served with chief dishes—Food and its digestion. lY. THE KITCHEN Its construction and management—The ventilation of kitchens, sculler}-, store room, and larder work—Kitchen economies, &c. With illustrations. Y. COOKING FUELS AND COOKING STOYES Solid fuels—Gaseous fuels—Electricity—Liquid fuels— Cooking stoves, their management and care—Central ranges with underground flues, Ac. With numerous illustrations. YI. COOKING TEIMPERATURES Tables showing the average heat by means of a saccharometer and thermometer, giving the respective degrees for boiling, roasting, baking, and other cooking heats. YH. CULINARY REQUISITES A complete list of utensils, Ac., required for a fully-equipped kitchen—The care of cooking utensils and how to clean them. With numerous illustrations. YIH. COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS . The various modes of cooking meat, fish, vegetables. Ac., embracing boiling, steaming, baking, roasting, stewing, braising, grilling, frying, twice cooking, sauteing, smoking, &c. With a table showing the average loss of weight in cooking meats, &c.lO X. XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV. XVI. XVII. XVIII. XIX. XX. XXI. XXII. THE X£ir CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. STOCKS AND SOUPS Elementary principles in stockinaking—Rules for making various stocks for soups and sauces—Soups in general— Garnishings, clear soups and thick soups, consommes, creams, and purees. SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITIONS .... The theory of sauces—Roux and Liaisons—Auxiliaries of sauces—Foundation sauces and their adjuncts—Synoptical classification of sauces, &c. SEASONING AND FLAVOURING The principal uses of all condiments and flavouring ingre- dients used in cooking. With illustrations. ELEMENTARY METHODS Weights and measures—Boiupiet garni—Parsley—Panade . —Mirepoix, Salpicons, &c.—Trussing poultry and game, &c.—Time-table for cooking meat, poultry, and game—• —Hints on cooking meats, &c.— Howto re-heat cold meats —The making of culinary pastes, icings for cakes, &c.— Marinades, pickling, fumets, &c. SAUCES Directions and recipes for preparing plain and compound or rich Sauces—Salad, chaud-froid, savoury and sweet sauces. EL.WOURING OR COIMPOUND BUTTERS Forcemeats, farces, &c. SOUPS (POT.AGES) Directions and recipes for making stocks. Consommes, Creams, Purees, and Biscpies. HORS-D’CLUVRE (APPETISERS) Introduction, with special recipes for the Hors-d’CEuvre course. With illustrations. DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES . . . . Recipes for hot and cold dishes. With illustrations. GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES Suitable lor Removes and Entrees, showing how joints, fish and Entrees may be improved by correct garnishings. ENTREES Introductory notes and classification of hot and cold Entrees. LIGHT ENTREES (ENTREES LEGERES) . . . . With recipes for Bouchees, Boudins, Cannelons, Cassolettes, Crepinettes, Croquettes, Timbales, and Souliles. With illustrations. VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTREES A collection of recipes for new dishes, composed chiefly of Vegetables, Fish, and Farinaceous products. HOT MEAT ENTREES, &c Recipes for Entrees, &c., of lamb, mutton, veal, beef, pork, &c., including curries. With numerous illustrations. 94 103 112 121 141 174 179 226 255 334 346 349 374 390CONTENTS. CHAPTER , PAGE XXIII. ENIREES OF POULTRY. &c. (HOT DISHES) . . 463 Giving a great variety of recipes and illustrations for these dishes. XXIV. ENTREES OF GAME, &c. (HOT DISHES) . . .507 Comprising numerous recipes for preparing dishes of game, &c. With illustrations. XXV. COLD SERVICE, ENTREES, &c 537 Recipes for cold Entrees, collation. Buffet, and Ball supper dishes, prepared with meat, poultry, and game. With illustrations. XXVI. REMOVES (RELEVES) 592 Introduction, with full directions for cooking joints of meat, &c., suitable for the remove course. XXVII. ROASTS (ROTIS) 609 Introduction, with directions for roa,sting poultry and game in various ways. With illustrations. XXVIII. VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) 617 Introduction, with numerous recipes, showing how vegetables can be most palatably cooked and served. With illustrations. XXIX. FARINACEOUS DISHES 668 A collection of recipes for light meatless dishes suitable as second course for dinner, luncheon or supper. XXX. OMELETS AND OTHER EGG DISHES .... 674 The art of omelet-making is exhaustively dealt with in this chapter. Recipes for plain, compound, savoury, and filled omelets are given, as well as a great variety of ways and styles of preparing other egg dishes. XXXI. SALADS (SALADES) 695 Fnll information and recipes for preparing all kinds of green and cooked vegetable salads.' fish, meat, egg, and fruit salads. XXXII. RECHERCHE BALL SUPPER AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES 718 .V collection of the latest styles of dishes (chiefly cold), particularly suited for above occasions. With directions and illustrations. XXXIII. HOT SWEET ENTREMETS 727 Introduction on the Entremet course. Recipes for many kinds of hot puddings, hot Souflles, Timbales, Charlottes, Omelettes, Ac. With illustrations. XXXIV. COLD SWEET ENTREMETS 771 Giving numerous recipes for Creams, Jellies, Cold Pud- dings, Souflles, Bordures, Chartreuses, Gateaux, &c. With illustrations.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. XXXV. ICES (GLACES) A chapter dealing with the art of ice-making, giving recipes for preparing water and cream ices,'ice puddings, iced Souffles, Mousses and Parfaits, Sorbets, &c. With illustrations. XXXVI. AETER-DINXER SAVOURIES Introduction, with numerous recipes and illustrations for savoury dishes of fish, meat, vegetables, cheese, &c. XXXVII. XXXVIII. XXXIX. XLI. XLII. 854 XLIV BREAKEAST AND SUPPER DISHES . . . .894 Giving a great variety of dainty dishes, especially adapted for breakfast and supper ; also Planked dishes. DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS gio Comprising a collection of dainty dishes a,nd drinks suitable for invalids and the convalescent. SANDWICHES . . . 921 Giving directions and recipes for preparing a large variety' of sandwiches, including meat, fish, salad, egg, cheese, and other sandwiches. PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY (PATISSERIE AND CONFISERIE) 928 The chapter is devoted to cakes, pastries, gateaux (plain and decorated), biscuits. Continental tartlets, dessert cakes, pstits fours, Bon-bons and Sweetmeats, A'c. With illustrations. AUXILIARY RECIPES 564 Gives (directions for making tea, coffee, cocoa, and chocolate—How to make jam, potted meats, American drinks, wine cups, &c., with many other useful recipes and culinary hints. THE ART OF CARYING 985 With specific directions to simplify the way to carve a joint of meat or a bird, showing the carver the correct position of the cuts, bones, and joints to be severed. With illustrations. TABLE SERVICE (SERVICE DE TABLE) . . -993 This section embodies the correct way of laying a table, with notes on table service, how to wait at table, how to remove plates and serve up each course of a dinner, also the service of wines. THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS loor How to compile menus, with an extensive collection of family' menus, from the simplest to the most elaborate, suited for every meal and for all occasions—IMenus of royalties—Ancient and classical bills of fare, &c.— Quaint and humorous menus and menu quotations. With many illustrations. GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY . . 1053 GENERAL INDEX 1059 INDEX TO ILLUSTR.\TIONS 1124ITS PRESENT AIMS AND OBJECTS. COOKERY is an art, a science and a handicraft, as well as a profession. It is a manipnlative art which cannot be acquired by mere theoretical teaching, for it requires years of assiduous and constant practice before experience brings efficiency. The sole legitimate objects of cooking are to make food more palatable and easier to digest and assimilate. Thus the essential quality of any and all culinary preparations, whether treated simply or elaborately, is that the food cooked may be capable of furnishing nourishment to the body and supplying new vital force to replace that which is constantly being used up by the processes inseparable from life. Good cooking—that is, “ genuine cookery ”—is a process which preserves all the essential flavours and nutritive qualities in foods. Therefore to cook well must be regarded as one of the grandest accomplishments, for it means making the best of Nature’s own gifts. Bad cooking, on the other hand, is nothing less than an insult to Nature, and an outrage against our own bodies, for it is the cause of innumerable evils. It is astonishing, nay deplorable, that in spite of the numerous efforts made to teach the proper methods of cooking, and the many opportunities given, much of the precious food products are wasted or ruined in cooking through lack of better knowledge. The most scientihc physiological deductions clearlv prove that perfect cookery is the greatest economy, and that no cookery is rational which does not attain the utmost theoreticall}^ possible effect, viz. the production of the highest physiological force. GoodTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 14 cookery and varied cookery are alike economical. The more per- fectly food is cooked the better it is assimilated, and the more satisfactory will be the digestion ; whilst, on the other hand, the more varied it is, the more successfully does it provide for the requirements of our complex bodies. Food that is cooked badly, or food that is unsuitable, too heavy or too rich of its kind, is sure to provoke that dreaded enemy, dyspepsia. All that appertains to the delicate and valuable science of cookery, in its highest and most artistic form, is the result of study of the masters of that craft, who, we are bound to admit, have of late produced marvellous improvements by providing what “ is pleasant to the eye and good for food.” Those cooks who rank as chefs are at once artists and physicians : they appeal to our senses of coloui', of fragrance, of form, and of taste. Recognising that the condition of our souls is largely dependent on the state of our stomachs, their inventive genius is displayed in multifarious schemes for what we may call the artistic presentation of nutriment. They can build castles and cathedrals out of cooked meats, flour, rice, and sugar ; they can fashion all the flowers that bloom in the spring ” out of deftly moulded stearine crystals or carved vegetable roots ; they can form all the delicate pieces of a table decoration, and the judicious composition of a well-balanced bill of fare ; they work like dramatists and think like doctors ; for, after all, the “ secret ” of a dinner means good dialogue on the part of the com- pany ; hence the culinary artist may justly be termed the real physician of modern life. Cooking, then, in its higher signiflcance, has become a fine art. A cook’s business does not merely consist of preparing dishes, nourishing and digestible : it also requires a high degree of skill in blending colours and condiments. So much for the artists and the “ haute cuisine ” ; but it is also most necessary that the importance of good cooking be likewise recognised in every- day life. It is here that cooking is often shamefully mismanaged, owing to lack of better knowledge ; and as the extravagances and discomforts resulting from bad cooking are well known, the importance of good cooking becomes at once apparent. Cookery is eminently experimental; our knowledge is increased through our daily experience and practice in the art. As the widestTHE ART OF COOKERY. definition of the objects of cookery, Di'- Thudichum gives “ the preparation of food in such a manner that man shall derive the greatest nutrition and cesthetical advantage from its consumption.” “ In all latitudes,” he says, ‘‘ cookery has to accommodate itself in an infinite variety of ways to the ages, conditions, and fortunes of men ; it has to consider not only the mere nutritive value of its products, but their aesthetic value, which may be defined as value arising from the liking or disliking that various persons with certain natural or acquired tastes manifest toward certain products and preparations.” The difficulties are only increased when we consider the nature and composition of the several kinds of food, the combinations necessary to produce desired effects—how different articles need different methods of treatment, and exposure to heat and moisture, in different ways and at varying degrees of temperature. The action of heat, chemical action, the processes of fermentation, dis- integration, and concentration—all are of concern in the preparation of food. Small wonder, then, that failure marks so often our crude attempts to provide suitable nutriment for delicate organisms. A certain amount of theory from the scientific side is good. We might, however, be able to get along wfithout it, but we should get on very badly without the practical part. I am sorely afraid that some of the students of cookery attach too much importance to the science and philosophy of cookery at the expense of fhe practice, for it is that most assuredly which makes the master of the art of cooking. We have, just now', enough philosophy in cookery and gastronomy to carry on the world’s cookery for the next twenty years, and only enough real practical science to carry on the world’s work from day to day, Cookery being an exact science, satisfactor}^ results can onlv be obtained by methodical operation or w'ork; but results good, bad, and indifferent are sometimes produced by accident. Such as these are not, however, satisfactory, and cannot therefore be relied upon, because a knowdedge based on mere chance, which produces results without substantial ground or reason, must, to say the least, be regarded as extremely disappointing. It is of course essenfial that a student of cookery should be well versed in fhe knowledge of the composition of fhe different foods.THE .V£ir CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6 and food materials in order to understand the changes produced by cooking. The subject is thus closely allied to the chemistry of food, and it becomes necessary that the physiological action of the digestive system of the human body be also studied. Cookery as a subject is broad and deep enough for several A’olumes ; indeed, the methods of cooking, and their effects alone, would hll a handsome volume. I can, however, here only allude briefly to the most important principles that govern its application. Turning to the practical side, the art of cooking consists of the knowledge of the various substances, food materials, and ingredients used as food, and of the best and most economical method of treating them, so as to make them nourishing, palatable, and wholesome. This knowledge consists of three distinct parts : 1. The selection of food and food materials. 2. TJie preparation and treatment of food. 3. The application of heat for its chemical conversion. The last part is best expressed in the word “ Cooking.” There never was a time when good'skill in cooking was more valued and appreciated among educated persons than it is now. This is not because the world thinks more of good living than formerly, but because the art of catering is better understood, and, therefore, good cooking is appreciated as it deserves to be.CHAPTER I. THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY. FOOD ELEMENTS AND THEIR COMBINATIONS. In such a consideration of foods as we must now undertake, in reference to their preparation for the table, we have ceidain pre- liminary facts to consider. Man differs from a stone in that, in the case of the stone, the same particles which composed it yesterday will compose it to-morrow, while in the living man this is not so. The very essence of life is intimately connected with change, and particles which are one day part of his food are another day part of the man himself. The food we eat has to perform several functions : 1. It has to be to the body what the fuel is to the steam engine ; that is to say, it has to provide the energy for the per- formance of the work of that body, both internal work (the beating of the heart, etc.) and external work (walking, etc.). 2. It has to provide material for replacing those portions of the body which are exhausted by the wear and tear necessitated b)/ the performance of such work. 3. It has to provide the material for new tissues, especially in the young. 4. It has to maintain by its combustion the bodily temperature. Food, after it has become assimilated as part of the body, undergoes slow combustion, and produces the same amount of heat as if it were burning rapidly in a fireplace. Formerly it was held that these various functions were per- formed by different kinds of food stuffs, that starches and fats were essentially heat-producing, while albuminous substances were essentially flesh-forming. As a matter of fact all these func- tions are interdependent, and no classification of food stuffs on this basis is possible. Since, therefore, the main purpose of our food is to build up and repair our bodies, we must evidently first consider of what substances they are composed. We find that they consist of a number of elements, the chief of which are : Carbon Hydrogen Nitrogen Oxygen Chlorine Phosphorus Calcium Sulphur Sodium Potassium Iron But it is evident that a meal consisting of those substances in tlieir raw condition—a lump of coke, a stick of phosphorus, with Bi8 THE KEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. a few bottles of gases and chips of iron—would hardly be appetising. The elements must be jn'esented to the body in the form of suitable chemical compounds, usually known as “.Proximate Principles.” Let us briefly consider the main headings under which we may classify these : A. Proteids or Albuininous Substances and allied bodies.—In this group we have contained the element, nitrogen, which is of special importance to living creatures ; in fact, we can only obtain the nitrogen we require in this form. Although the atmosphere is composed very largely of nitrogen, only a few fungi can make use of it in this form, while man has to obtain his nitrogen in the most-expen- sive articles of his diet. Proteids form a large group of very complex chemical substances, containing, besides nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and they form the main constituents of milk, eggs, and meat. The vegetable kingdom also supplies us with proteids, but these vege- table proteids are not so digestible as the animal proteids. Many proteids are crystallisable when pure, and can be distinguished by certain chemical tests. Their most familiar property is, however, that of becoming coagu- lated by heat, a process seen in the setting of the white of an egg when it is boiled. P. The next group is that of the Fats, such as occur in suet, lard, butter, cream, etc.—Fats are chemical compounds of glycerine with stearic, oleic, and palmitic acids, and the varied proportions of these constituents explain the differences in consistency between the fats of various animals—e.g. lard is especially rich in olein, the compound of oleic acid, while suet is rich in stearin, the fat formed from stearic acid. C. The Carbohydrates.—This group contains the various forms of starches, gums, and sugars. This is a very large and important group, and one for our supply of wliich we are mainly dependent upon the vegetable kingdom. Carbohydrates occur, however, in the animal kingdom ; for example, there is an interesting animal carbohydrate called glycogen, which occurs in the liver and muscles, especially those of young animals ; this is sometimes called animal starch. Of the sugars we have two main forms in common use as foods—i.e. the ordinary “ lump,” or cane sugar, and fruit sugars, or glucoses, which occur in fruits. Although not so highly prized by the public, these arc of more importance than cane sugar ; indeed, the latter has to be converted into glucose in the course of digestion before it can be absorbed by the body. Water, Salts, and Extractives.—The constant loss of water in the breath and excreta necessitates, of course, the consumption19 THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY. of a considerable quantity of water to replace the loss. Salts are of extreme importance ; e.^. salts of lime are necessary for the formation of bones and teeth. They also have other more obscure functions which have noi as yet been accurately determined. Extractives.—This is the term given to the group of chemical substances which we can dissolve out of any substance by water or other solvent. Soups, extracts of meat, glaze, and similar preparations mainly consist of these substances. Finally there is a large group of more or less desirable accessories to food, such as spices and condiments, wines,-tea, coffee, and cocoa, and so on. Having thus considered very briefly these “ proximate prin- ciples,” let us see how a few of the more ordinary articles of diet supply us with them. Milk.—This naturally comes first, inasmuch as it is the most complete of any of the natural food stuffs. It contains : A. Proteids, mainly a protcid called caseinogcn.—This is dissolved in the milk, but, unlike most proteids, does not coagulate in boiling. When, however, a little rennet is added to the milk, it becomes converted into casein, and, entangling with it the fatty globules of the milk, forms the well-known curd. This forms the principal constituent of cheese. If milk be allowed to boil for some time, certain changes occur, the exact nature of which has not been discovered. They are of great practical importance from the fact that children fed upon milk prepared in this way frequently do not thrive. Milk should therefore be removed from the fire immediately it begins to boil, especially if it is to be used for feeding very young children. B. Fats.—If a drop of milk be examined under the micro- scope, it is seen to consist of numerous globules of fat which, when shaken together, form butter, one of the most valuable of all the fats from a physiological standpoint. C. Carbohydrates.—Milk contains a special form of sugar, lactose, or milk sugar. D. Water, Salts, and Extractives. Human milk differs from cow’s milk in that it contains more sugar and less proteid matter. In round numbers the relative quantities are : — Human Milk. Cow’s Milk. Proteid (per cent.) 4 Fat (per cent.) 4 4 Carbohydrate (per cent.) . 7 4THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 20 Meat.—Here we have to consider two distinct structures. In the hrst place, we have the actual hbres of the meat, consisting, besides water, almost entirely of proteid, or albuminous material of several varieties. Some of these after death undergo coagulation, causing the carcase of the animal to become stiff and rigid. The other constituents of the meat are sinews and material uniting the hbres together. These contain fat and a substance which yields gelatin on boiling with water. Gelatin, the chief constituent of jellies and clear soups, is a substance allied to proteid, and is of value in that it can replace part, though not all, of the proteid part of the diet. It has hence been called a “ proteid-sparing ” food. Eggs.—These form the nearest approach to a pure proteid that we have in nature, their other constituents being compara- tively unimportant. Bread and Flour.—These in various forms constitute the main sources of carbohydrates. Bread contains a large amount of starch, some sugar formed from it in the process of baking, as well as about 8 per cent, of the vegetable proteid called gluten. Bread is made “ light ” by the action of yeast, a small plant which, as it grows, forms carbonic acid gas from the sugar. This gas bubbling through the dough renders it porous. Vegetables.—Some such, as potatoes, consist almost entirely of starch ; others, such as green vegetables, consist mainly of a highly insoluble substance called cellulose, with small quantities of starches, proteids, etc. But they are especially valuable in that they contain various mineral salts of vital importance. The importance of fresh vegetables and fruits was not for a long time realised, and hence there were fearful outbreaks of scurvy amongst sailors; at the present day this disease is practically unknown in well-ordered ships. What the actual substance is that prevents scurvy has not as yet been discovered. Recent Arctic expeditions have also shown the value of fresh meat in preventing scurvy. Now, as we saw above, proteid contains practically all the elements which we require, and yet it is found, as a matter of practical experience, that we can live much better on a mi.xed diet consisting also of carbohydrates, fats, .etc., and, furthermore, that these should be in proper proportion. A typical physiological diet, i.e. one on which an average man would neither gain nor lose weight, is the following, known as “ Ranke's ” diet : Proteid . . loo grammes I Carbohydrates—250 grammes Fat ■ . . 100 ,, I Water, salts, etc. Again, given such a diet, we must have it properly prepared for consumption and digestion. Before the body can absorb any of these they must undergo complicated chemical changes in the stomach and intestines under the influence of the various digestive juices; for example, proteids must be converted into “peptones,” substances which are more soluble and pass more readily throughTHE SCIENCE OF COOKERY, the wall of the alimentary canal ; starch must be converted into sugar. In order that this may be done easily the food must be broken up into small pieces by mastication, that the digestive juice may have access to its particles, and it must be rendered palatable. This is of importance because the secretion of the digestive juices is under the control of the nervous system, and the more a dish pleases the appetite—within certain limits—the more readily it is digested. Cookery has thus for ifs objects : 1. The rendering of raw material agreeable to the sight, smell, and taste. 2. The conversion of the sinews, etc., of meat into gelatin so that the fibres can be easily separated. 3. The bursting of the little envelopes in which starch is found in the tissues of various plants, and so allowing the digestive juice to act upon it. 4. The destruction of the eggs of any undesirable parasites that may happen to be present in raw food, or, especially in the case of milk, the destruction of the germs of disease or putrefaction which are liable to occur. In flavouring, etc., we are largely dependent upon extractives. Meats contain, as we have seen, a great many—notably one called creatine—and these are the main constituents of the various meat extracts on the market. They have practically no value as actual food. In many of these meat extracts a certain amount of proteid matter is added, but it is generally very insoluble, and always in such small quantity as to be practically useless as food. i\Ieat extracts and clear soups must, then, be considered, from the point of view of food proper, as practically useless ; but inas- much as they are stimulant and refreshing, besides being palatable, they are valuable adjuncts to food. THE PHILOSOPHY OF COOKERY. Cookery and the history of cooking are, alas ! only too often looked upon and practised as a matter of reading and learning recipes. It may seem a comparatively easy matter to follow the directions given in cookery books accurately, and if these be correct and reliable the result is usually satisfactory. But this is not enough. To master the art thoroughly it requires years of practice, after one has studied and grasped the fundamental principles which underlie the art of cooking. Cookery being a manipulafive art as well as a science, it can scarcely be acquired by mere theoretical teaching: it needs years of assiduous and constant practice before experience pro- duces that efficiency which will bring nniformly satisfactory results. The object of cooking may be summarisecl as follows ; 1. To make food more palatable. 2. To render it more easy to digest and assimilate. 3. To preserve its nutritive qualities. 4. To make it presentable, pleasant to the eye, and pleasant to the palate.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 22 The first and most essential })art of cooking—no matter what process or method of preparation be adopted—is that the food treated by any culinary formula, simple or elaborate, must be capable of furnishing nourishment to the body and supplying new vital force to replace that w'hich is constantly being used up by the processes inseparable from life. It is not what we eat, but wfiiat we digest that keeps the body in health. The late Sir Henry Thompson \vas very clear about his opinion in this respect, for he said that more than half the disease which embitters the middle and latter part of life is due to avoidable errors of diet. It is evident that the business of a cook \vho know^s his or her profession thoroughly, must have a three-fold purpose in view, all of which are so important that, if one or the other is neglected or imperfectly understood, the result wall suffer. The dishes produced must be easy of digestion, capable of affording the full amount of nutrition that can be got from the food treated. They must be made pleasant to the palate, and toothsome in a high degree. And lastly, pleasing to the eye— indeed, the food must be so dished or dressed as to be acceptable to the eye and inviting in appearance. The cook’s business is by no means complete unless she or he knows how to make dishes presentable ; for a dish, even if w'ell cooked, if badly dressed and repulsive to the eye—is likely to produce disappointment and dissatisfaction to the diner ; and the success of an otherwise well prepared dish may become marred. WHO DISCOVERED FIRE? Strange as it may seem, no one has as yet been able to give the exact date wTen cooking proper was first introduced, for there was a time when man and woman ate their food raw. Both of them own an irredeemable debt to that primitive ancestor who first discovered how^ to make a fire and produce heat wherewith to cook —for without heat there could not have been any cooking. This discovery alone w^as and still is of inestimable value and lasting benefit to mankind. It is indeed not too much to assert that the real dawn of civilisation did not begin until that ingenious, though prehistoric, person first put twn and twn together—that is to say, raw food and the fire—and thereby discovered what may, in spite of its primitiveness at that period, be called the beginning of the art of cooking. No one will ever be able to dispute the fact that cookery is not only the oldest art, but unquestionably one ol the most useful and beneficent to humanity. So ancient an art should be, and deserves to be, duly honoured and not despised.23 CHAPTER IT MARKETING. THE CHOICE OF FOOD. Dr. Kitchener, in his work, “ The Cook’s Oracle,” truly said ” that all the skill of the most accomplished cook will avail nothing, unless the cook be furnished with prime provisions.” A sound knowledge of marketing, and the selection of food, therefore, becomes the first necessity, because nothing can be of more import- ance in cookery than the choice of the proper food materials. So it is necessary to give a few brief instructions for marketing, and explain certain general principles which will be helpful in the selection of food. Rule I. Look over your larder and storeroom, and make a list of what is needed in fresh or perishable food, as well as dry or preserved goods, studying at the same time the bill of fare of that day, and include such articles as will be needed to carry out the plan for the meals of the day. Rule II. Acquire as much knowledge as you can, by personal observation, and by asking questions of shopkeepers. Pretend to be ignorant, and when you know do not make a display of your knowledge, but use it for your own benefit. Rule III. Buy only in the best markets : the more trade clone at a place the more likely you are to get fresh goods. Remember also that the cheapest goods are not always the most economical to use. Rule IV. Study the markets from books and newspapers, make a few notes, and take them with you when you go marketing : this will aid you greatly. Rule V. Learn to understand how fish, meat, poultry, and game should look and feel ; how to judge a joint of meat, and how to tell a young bird from an old one : how to judge fish when fresh or stale, souncl fruit, fresh vegetables, etc. Rule VI. Be prepared to buy your experience at first. After a little time you will by careful observation become accpiainted with those points which denote good quality, and you will soon become proficient in marketing. BUYING FOR LARGE ESTABLISHMENTS. Quite half of the succ^s in cooking depends on the buyer. What Mr. John Tellman says about the method of buying for an hotel or other catering business in America is only too true hereTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 24 in England. He says : “ When a house engages a man to buy who is not possessed of the required knowledge it will pay school money, which in some instances amounts to quite a sum, until he has learned. “ A chef-manager or steward in buying should always ask the price of the goods wanted before taking them, no matter how regular he gets the same article or reliable the firm. Prices change on all goods ; they may have advanced to a figure too high, in- which case it would require the selection of another brand. A good firm appreciates the strict business methods in a buyer, and will take better care of his orders than if he comes in, reads off his list of articles wanted in a careless way, with an ‘ I don’t ask prices : my house can pay for them ’ air. The chef-manager or steward should buy just like the merchant, who first figures on the probable profit. The chef or manager on his tour of marketing often meets with what are called bargains, which he should take advantage of if they are staple and non-perishable goods, but, if perishable, should consider well before buying. The goods may be all right if used at once ; but if it is necessary to carry them for several days, and in the meantime they become unfit for use, the bargain becomes a total loss. Among the staple articles which cannot be found at bargains are coffee and flour. When a house has a blend of coffee which pleases, it should be continued right along ; and so it is with flour and other articles : to ensure good bread, there should be kept a brand that runs even the year around.” PRACTICAL HINTS IN CHOOSING FISH, MEAT, POULTRY, GAME, VEGETABLES, ETC. The following points and hints are given to assist the inex- perienced ones in the art of buying, but to become perfect in this branch one needs a great deal of practical experience. How to Choose Fish.—In choosing fish the following rules should be observed : The eyes should be bright, the flesh or body firm, the gills a bright red, and the smell should be sweet and pleasant. Fish should never be eaten when out of season, because it often disagrees with the system. The flesh of white fish should always be firm to the touch ; when it is flabby and has a bluish tinge it is a sign of its inferiority and staleness. Cod, when fresh and sound, should be judged by the redness of the gills, the whiteness, stiffness, and firmness of the flesh, and the clear freshness of the eyes. All these are infallible proofs of its being good and fit for use. Salmon, when good, should have a small head, thick shoulders, and a small tail. The flesh should be of a bright red colour, and the scales should be very bright. Mackerel should not be bought unless quite fresh ; the fish will not keep, and should be cooked the day it is purchased Cod may be kept twenty-four hours, and soles the same. Eels should be bought alive.MARKETING. 25 Soles, when fresh, are of a cream-like colour on the under-part, and when stale their appearance is bluish and flabby. Lobsters are at their best when oysters are out (d' season, in the summer ; in winter male lobsters only are in good condition. The hen lobster is known by her coral spawn, which is used for garnishing white fish, turbot, cod, etc. The quality of the lobster is judged by its weight ; a light lobster is not a good one. If the lobster is stale, the tail hangs limp, while if fresh it is drawn under the fish, and if pulled out will spring back again when let go. Crabs, also, are to be judged by their weight and stiffness. If light and limp, they are bad. Oysters, if fresh, will close forcibly on the knife wJren opened. If the shell gapes the least bit, the oyster is losing its freshness. When dead the shell remains open, and the oyster should not be consumed. Meat.—The most popular kinds of meat are beef, mutton, veal, and pork. Of these, beef is considered to be the most nutritioirs, mutton the most digestible, whilst veal and pork, though nourishing, are not nearly so digestible as either beef or mutton. Meat that has an excessive amount of fat is not economical to buy. Joints with undue proportion of bones are very unprofitable. In buying meat always remember the kind best suited for your purpose, whether for boiling, roasting, braising or stewing : as many advantages and disadvantages are thereby gained or lost. The following characteristics must be looked for in good beef and mutton : A. It is neither of a pale pink colour, nor of a deep purple tint ; for the former is generally considered as sign of disease, whilst the latter indicates that the animal has not been slaughtered, but has died with the blood in it, or has suffered from acute fever. B. It has a marbled appearance from the ramifications of the little veins of fat among the muscles. C. It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and scarcely moisten the fingers—bad meat being wet and sodden and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet parchment. D. It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be disagreeable ; diseased meat has a sickly, unpleasant smell, and sometimes a smell of phvsic. Good meat will neither shrink nor waste much in cooking. Beef (that is, o.x-beef), when young and tender, should have a fine open grain, and a deep red colour. It should be elastic to the touch ; that is, if pressed with the fingers, the flesh should rise again and leave no mark. When the meat is clammy or flabby, and has a faint smell, it is a sign that it is stale and unfit for use. The fat must be white or yellowish-white, and firm to the touch.26 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. An ox, when killed and skinned, is generally divided into about twenty parts or joints. The manner of cutting up beef and other meat varies. The diagrams given show the most prohtable method. The fore-rib, mid-rib, and sirloin are best adapted for roasfing whole ; when cut into slices they are very good for grilling or broiling. Entrecotes (sirloin-steaks), contre-filets (rib-steaks), and Porterhouse- steaks are cut from fhe sirloin and mid-rib (see Figs, i and 2 in diagram). Sirloin and rib of beef, when boned, are frequently braised and served as Releve (remove). These, together with the hllet and the rump, are the most expensive joints of an ox. Sirloins and ribs of beef are the best, but rather expensive joints, owing to the weight of bone. The roasfing side of fhe round part of the buttock, and the part called the “ topside,” are the most profitable. The mouse buttock is used for stewing ; shin and neck are used for soup or stewing. The rump and hllet are the most tender and succulent parts ; they are usually braised, or else cut into steaks and grilled. In some parts of England (parficularly in Devonshire and Cornwall) the rump is cut larger than in other parts, and when salted and boiled, forms one of the standard joints ; but as much of the albumen and nourishment of fhis part of meat is lost in the brine, salted meat should be used in moderation. When the fat of beef appears hard and skinny, and a kind of horny texture runs through the rib part of the meat, it is old and of inferior quality. Beef fat is one of the best fats for frying and ofher cooking purposes. Suet is the hard fat which protects the kidneys. MODE OF CUTTING UP BEEF. An ox, cow or heifer is divided (jointed) as follows (see plate) : 1. Fore Ribs, suitable for roasting. 2. The Sirloin, suitable for roasting. 3. The Rump, suitable for roasting, braising, grilling, etc. (best part for steaks). 4. The Aitchbone, sometimes called the round ; it.is below the rumj) at the hind part, suitable for roasting and boiling, or, when salted, boiled or stewed. 5. The Mouse (buttock), which includes part of the thigh bone, suitable for braising, boiling, grilling, and stewing. This piece is also salted at times. 6. The Leg, also called the veiny piece, suitable for stewing. Used for soup stock. 7. Thick Flank, generally boiled or stewed. 8. Thin Flank, generally boiled or stewed. g. Nine Holes, includes part of the brisket, chiefly salted or ])icklcd, and boiled ; also used plain for boiling and stewing purposes. This part is less fat than the brisket proper. 10. Runners, cut close to shoulder and head, used for boiling and stewing, also for pies. The thin end is sometimes salted and boiled. 11. First Runner, used for boiling or stewing.27 MARKETING.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 28 12. Spare Ribs, generally roasted or baked, and sometimes stewed. 13. Shoulder, sometimes called mutton piece or leg piece, suitable for roasting, baking or stewing. 14. Brisket, generally salted and boiled. It is not suitable for either roasting or baking. 15. Neck, or sticking piece (including part of the head), used for soups, stews, and for mincing. 17. The Clod, suitable for stewing, or for soup and stock. 18. The Head, including cheek, for stewing and boiling. The cheek is often used for salads. 19. The Hough or Shin (leg), generally used for soup and stock. The fleshy end is sometimes used for stews. AVERAGE WEIGHTS AND COST OF THE VARIOUS PARTS OF BEEF. Weight. lbs. S. Per lb. d. s. rf. Weight. lbs. s. Per d. lb. d. Prime or Fore ICibs 30 . . 0 10 to 1 0 Sirloin . . . 40 . . I 0 to I 2 Back Ribs . • 30 . . 0 9 ,. 0 10 Fillet . . .5-6. . I 3 „ I 6 Top Ribs . 30 . . 0 9 0 10 Thick Flauk . . 40 . . 0 9 „ 0 10 Topside . . 25 . . 0 8 ,, 0 .10 Thin Flank . . 35 • . 0 5 0 6 Rump • 35 • • I I ,, I 3 Shoulder and Collar 40 . . 0 8 ,, 0 9 Buttock . . so . . 0 9 „ 0 10 Shin and Leg. . 50 . . 0 5 .. 0 6 Aitchbone . 10 . . 0 6 „ 0 7 Tail (each) . . 2-3 . . I 9 .. 2 3 Brisket . . 40 . . 0 5 .. 0 6 Mutton, when in prime condition, is richer in fat than beef. It is of short fibre. The meat of a sheep should not be eaten till it is at least three years old. The best English Southdown mutton is obtained from sheep six years old. The flesh of mutton should be rather firmer than that of beef, and of a deep red colour. The fat should be white and firm. Mutton fat contains a large per-29 MARKETING. centage of stearic acid ; it is on this account much firmer than beef fat, and also less digestible. For the same reason fat mutton eaten by persons of feeble digestion often disagrees, and should therefore be avoided. Mutton ought to hang for some time to ripen before it is cooked ; but the flesh of lamb can be cooked almost immediately after it is killed. Both mutton and beef should be hung as long as possible without becoming tainted. The flesh of an old animal when pinched remains wrinkled. MODE OF CUTTING UP MUTTON. A sheep is divided into the following pieces (see plate) : 1. The Leg, suitable for roasting, baking or boiling. The leg of a wether is best for roasting or baking, and the leg of ewes is considered best for boiling. 2. The Loin, best end, suitable for roasting or baking, also for grilling or broiling and stewing, when cut into chops. 3. The Loin, chump end, treated the same as best end of loin, but more often stewed. Two loins undivided constitute a saddle. 4. The Neck, best end, suitable for roasting, baking, boiling or braising, but generally made into cutlets, when they are grilled or fried. 5. The Neck, scrag end, useffil for stews and soups, also boiled. 6. The Shoulder, generally baked or roasted whole ; the blade-bone is frequently removed, when the shoulder is stuffed and roasted or braised. This joint is not suitable for boiling.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 30 7. Tlie Breast, suitable for baking or stewing. 8. The Head, including part of the neck (scrag end), suitable for boiling ; useful for broth. 9. The Shank, used for soup and broth, sometimes stewed. 10. The Trotters, made into broth with or without the head. They are also boiled, and sometimes stewed. Lamb.—The flesh of lamb, like that of mutton, should be firm, and the fat of a white colour. This meat, being immature, is not MUTTON (MOUTON). LAMB (AGNE.au). sidered quite so nourishing as mutton. Lamb is in season from January to July. It will not keep good so long after being killed as mutton. When stale, the veins of the neck encl in the fore-quarter will be found of a greenish tint, and when fresh of a bluish tint. Similar signs may be discovered in the hind-quarter by examining the kidney and the knuckle. The former has, when stale or killed too long, a slight tainted smell, and the knuckle is soft and flabby.31 MARKETING. Veal.—In choosing veal the flesh should be very pale in colour. It is preferred when very pale, but is more juicy when of a slightly deeper colour (a bright red). The loin affords the best means of judging the superior quality and freshness of veal. If the kidney, found on the underside of one end of the loin, is enwrapped in white and firm-looking fat, it is a sign of good quality and fresh- ness. On the other hand, if the fat around the kidney is soft, the flesh flabby and spot- ted, the meat is not fresh or the quality is poor. This meat is rather indigesti- ble, and, if very young, does not contain much nourishment. For buying veal, or indeed any other kind of meat for roasting, one must calculate about half a pound to every guest. Veal has always been much esteemed tor its delicate pale pink colour, which in some cases is almost white ; this is due to the animal being killed when very young. The best season for veal is from March to the end of July. It is, however, obtainable and consumed throughout the year. Veal is more highly esteemed and of superior flavour on the Continent than in this country. The head and breast are the most favourite parts, and the fricandeau also forms a variety of delicate dishes. In Switzerland and Germany a dish of veal is frequently recommended to convalescents. VEAL (vEAu).—Side of Veal, showing manner of cuts.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CONTINENTAL MANNER OF CUTTING UP MUTTON AND VEAL.MARKEriNG. 35 Bacon.—Like pork, good bacon should ha\'c a thin rind ; the fat must be firm and of a good colour. The best bacon, if mild cured, is of a pale colour, ancl the meat adheres firmly to the bones. There should be no so-called yellow streaks in it. To ascertain the good quality of a ham or gammon of bacon, insert a steel skewer or a knife ; if it comes out clean, and no disagreeable smell is detected, it is a sign of good quality ; but if some particles of meat cling to the skewer or knife when withdrawn, and the smell is unpleasant, it is certain that the curing is at fault, or the article is of inferior quality. A short and thick ham is always considered the best. POULTRY AND GAME. Fresh Poultry is known by the following signs ; the feet are soft or moist, the eyes are clear, and there is no bluish or greenish tint round the veins. Fowls, when young, should have smooth legs and combs ; when old the reverse will be observed. Surrey fowls and Surrey chickens are acknowledged to be the best. The cock bird is young when it has a smooth leg and short spurs ; hens when young have smooth legs : the breast-bone should be soft and pliable. Black-legged fowls are best rised for roasting, whilst white-legged fowls are best for boiling. Turkeys, when young, have smooth black legs ; when they are rough and reddish they are old and not likely to cook tender. When freshly killed the eyes of turkeys will be found bright, full, and fresh. Norfolk turkeys are reckoned the best. The cock bird is best suited for roasting, and the hen for boiling. Geese, when young, have yellow feet and bills ; when old they are of a reddish colour. The feet of freshly killed geese are pliable and soft, but if the bird has been killed some time, the feet are dry and stiff. Green Geese.—Geese are called green until they are from two to three months old. Ducks.—The rules for choosing geese also apply to ducks ; they are known by their feet, which should be supple ; the breast should be firm and plump.. Tam? ducks have yellow feet, whilst those of wild ducks are red. Venison, when young, is usually judged by the fat, which should be clear and bright,in colour. It must be well hung before it is in fit condition for cooking. When it is not wanted very high, a knife or skewer shouM'be inserted into the meat to ascertain its state, as by so doing one is able to judge by the smell whether the venison is of the desired freshness or maturity. Grouse.—This group of birds comprises the grouse proper and the partridge. .Grouse are in season in Augiist, and are then very expensive birds. They are found chiefly in the North of England and Scotland, amongst the heather and morasses. Young grouse are known by a short round spur. Yellow legs and dark bill are36 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. signs by which a young partridge inay be known ; a rigid \-ent shows they are fresh. Old grouse or partridges are tough, and only fit for stewing or braising. The Pheasant, when young, may be known by a short or round spur : in old birds it is long and pointless. Snipe, Quails, and Ortolans may be known as young birds by the short or round spurs. Ptarmigan, or white grouse, mostly come from Scotland, but are also imported in great quantities from Norway, preserved in cold chambers. They ought to be hung as long as possible. Woodcocks are in season in November. Young birds are known by a round or short spur ; when old the spur is pointed, and the feet are hard and thick. If their bills become moist and their throats are muddy, it is a sign that they have been kept too long. Wild Ducks, Widgeon, and Teal are seasonable and often cheap in winter ; but teal are not prohtable even then, as they are very lean. Quails, Landrails, Plovers, and Larks are delicate food. Hares and Rabbits.—When the ears are dry and tough, the haunch thick, and the claws blunt and rugged, it is a sign that they are old. If the ears are soft and thin, and the claws sharp and smooth, they are young and tender. A hare for roasting should be very young ; a leveret is best. Other signs of youth in a hare, or rabbit are : the cleft in the lip is narrow, the body stiff, and the claws smooth and sharp. All game should be hung undrawn and in their feathers for a few days before cooking. The exact time must depend upon individual taste. When, however, the feathers on the lower breast of a bird come out easily, it is considered ready for cooking. Phea- sants can be hung longer than partridges. Water-fowls should not hang more than a day at the most. VEGETABLES, FRUITS, ETC. In choosing vegetables and fruit every care should be taken to ensure perfect freshness and ripeness. Stale vegetables, as well as fruit, are quite as unwholesome and dangerous to eat as bad and putrid meat ; biit, because the smell of stale vegetables is not so unpleasant as that of bad meat and fish, people are not so par- ticular. All vegetables should be as fresh as possible. The fresher green vegetables are the better ; they should be crisp and green. They must be well washed and cleaned before being cooked. Fruit, in addition to being fresh, must be botli ripe and sound before it is fit for table. To anyone unacquainted with the so-called greengrocers’ measures the buying of fruit and vegetables is sometimes a puzzle, as the measures are not so generally known as those of other goods. The following are a few examples of the most important Fruits and Vegetables as they are sold in London markets :37 MAKKEl ING. Asparagus,—A bundle contains from 50 to 150 heads, according to season or size. Broccoli.—A crate, according to size, or by tally, if loose. Mushrooms.—A punnet holds about i lb. Peas.—A sieve, equal to one bushel, contains 10 gallons. Potatoes are sold by the bushel, sack or ton. Radishes.—A hand from 12 to 30 in number, according to the season. Turnips.—A bunch from ig to 25. Cabbages and Lettuces.—A tally of five dozen. Carrots,—A bunch from 24 to 30. Greens. -A bunch as many as can be tied together by the roots. Celery.--A bundle, according to size, from 6 to 10 heads. Apples and Pears are put up in bushels, sieves or half-sieves, the sieve being equal to a bushel. Cherries, Currants, and Gooseberries.—Sieve equals about 48 lb., half 24 lb., a peck about 12 lb. Peaches, Nectarines, and Apricots.—Baskets or boxes of 6 or 12. Rhubarb.—A bundle from 20 to 30 stems, according to size and season. Strawberries are sold in boxes of punnets of varying size, holding from f to i lb. : handled baskets 4 to 6 lb. ; and trays. Lard.—The best lard is made from the kidney fat of the pig, melted and poured into bladders. When pure, lard has scarcely any taste or smell ; it should be of a pure white, not too opaque ; firm, but not hard. If, when it is melted, it splutters, it is a sign that water has been added to it when prepared. Cheese.—The richness of cheese depends on the quantity of cream left in the milk used for it. Skim milk forms the poor and salt cheeses (as Dutch cheese, etc.). They contain casein and little else, but are nourishing. Eggs.—Hold up to the light ; if fresh they will look clear : or mix two tablespoonfuls of salt in half a pint of water, and put in an egg ; if stale it will float, if fresh it will sink. A bad egg will float in fresh water? Tea.—This article requires the most careful attention on the part of the buyer, because in most cases the dealer or purveyor must be relied upon. There are several varieties of tea, but two kinds should be ample for any first-class house—viz. Ceylon and Indian, or Oolong and Young Hyson ; the latter two mixed in different proportions make excellent blends. Coffee.—It is best to buy coffee freshly roasted each day and grind it as required from day to day. Mysore and Jamaica, or Java and Mocha, mixed in the following proportions, three-fourtlis of the formerand one-fourth of the latter, make a very satisfactory beverage. Coffee for breakfast should be made rather stronger than for after dinner. It is desirable to obtain both tea and coffee from a reliable firm, and to avoid changes, if the blends supplied give satisfaction.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER III. FOODS IN SEASON—DIGESTION OF FOOD- ACCOMPANIMENTS WITH DISHES. FOOD CALENDAR—Alphabetically Arranged. The following table shows the period when the principal foods are in prime condition, and best obtainable in the markets. When marketing it is well to remember that the food most seasonable is usually that which is most plentiful, most wholesome, and usually the most reasonable in price. A number of the articles named can be had almost at any time of the year, though not, strictly speaking, in season. Apples . September to May Apricots . August to September Artichokes (Globe) . January to April Artichokes (Jerusalem) October to February Asparagus (Giant) . February to July Asparagus (English) . April to June Asparagus (Sprue or Sprew) . January to July Barberries . September to Novem- ber Barbel . . August to February Bass . . i\Iay to September Blackberries September to October Black Cock . October to December Broad Beans July to August Broccoli Sprouts October to March Brussels Sprouts September to February BulLaces . September to Novem- ber Capsicums . September to October Carp . . July to February Carrots, New May to June Cauhflowers March to November Celeriac . October to March Celery . . September to February Cherries . June to September Cherries, Montreal May to August Chickens, Spring . April to June Cobnuts . September to February Codfish . September to February Cranberries . November to January Crawfish . May to July Crayfish . July to February Cucumbers . i\Iay to September Currants, English (red, white, and black) June to September Currants, French . May to July Cygnets (Norfolk) . May to July Damsons . September to October Dawsons . September to October Ducks,Wild . .August to March Ducklings . March to September Eels . . September to May Endive . . November to March Fieldfare . November to February Figs, Green August to Septem- ber Filberts . August to October Flageolets . May to August Flounders . .\ugust to April Fowl, Wild . August to March French Beans July to October Geese . . September to February ,, Wild . September to i\farch Gooseberries, Green . April to May Gooseberries, Ripe . . June to July Goslings . March to September Grapes, Almeria . October to April39 I-VUDS IN SEASON. Grapes, French Greengages . Grouse . Halibut Hares . Grey . Herrings, Fresh . Indian Corn . John Dories Kale Lamb . Landrails Larks . Lettuces, English Lettuces, French Leverets Lobsters Mackerel Maize . Medlars Melons, Rock ,, Water Mulberries . Mullet, Grey and Red . Mushrooms , Mussels Nectarines . Oranges ,, Seville Ortolans Oysters Parsnips Partridges . ,, Foreign Peaches Pears . ;, Califor- nian . Peas, English green Perch . Pheasants Pigeons, Bordeaux Pike Pines, St. Alichael’s. Pintail . September to October July to September .August to December May to January August to March October to December July to February August to December July to April December to March January to July October to February August to February April to September December to Alarch August to March July to September April to December (See Indian Corn) September to October August to September ' October to March August to September July to October March to October August to March August to October November to June February to March June to August September to April September to April September to Februar}" February to June August to October August to December November to April August to September July to February October to February August to September Jidy to February October to April September to March Plaice . Plovers’ Eggs Plovers, Gol- den and Grey Plums, English Plums, French Pomegranates Pork . Potatoes, New Kidney Ptarmigans . Prairie Hens Prawns Pumpkins Quinces Raspberries . Red Cabbage Reeves . Rhubarb, Forced ,, Natural Ruffs Shrimps Salmon . Salsify . Savoys . Scarlet Runners . Scallops Skate . Snipe Spinach Sprats . Strawberries Sturgeon, Royal . Tangerine Oranges Teal Tench . Tomatoes Trout . Turkeys Vegetable Marrow Venison Walnuts Wliitcbait Whiting Widgeons Woodcocks .May to January .April to Alay August to Alarcli August to Alarch July to August October to November September to April Alarch to Alay December to May F'ebruary to April April to August September to October October to November June to September September to January August to September December to Alay April to July August to September April to September February to October December to Alarch October to Alarch July to October October to April October to Alay .August to Alarch Alarch to December November to April June to September September to Alarch November to February September to Alarch July to February March to December February to September September to February yAugusl to October Alay to October September to December February to August Alay to January August to Alarch August to AlarchTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 40 POPULAR ACCOMPANIMENTS WITH DISHES. Table of Adjuncts served with Principal Dishes. The usual accompaniments served with standard dishes are governed by certain rules and customs which should be more or less adhered to by all cooks, stewards, and housekeepers. Hors d’CEuvre. Oysters.—Quarters or halves of lemon, tliinly cut, buttered slices of brown bread, cayenne or white vinegar. Caviare. -Finely chopped shallots, cut lemoii, and thin slices of brown bread, butter, and caj^enne. Melon (usually sliced).—Crushed ice, sugar, and salt. Other dishes, plain or dressed, according to the directions given with the recipes. Small pats or balls of fresh butter, and French olives, are, as a rule, placed on the table or sideboard, and served as required. Soups.—With clear soups, consommes, etc., a small glass bowl ol- dish of finely grated parmesan cheese is frequently handed round. With most thick soups, creams, and purees, small croutons of fried bread, and for certain soups, especially game purees, very small forcemeat balls are served separately with the soup. Fish.—With all boiled fish a dish of plain boiled potatoes should be kept ready and served when needed. Boiled fish is garnished with fresh parsley, and fried fish with fried parsley. Some kind of hot sauce is served with all boiled fish, and cut lemon as well as some suitably flavoured sauce is served with all fried fish. With grilled or boiled fish, anchovy or parsley butter is spread on top before serving—unless ordered quite plain. Cod (boiled) requires, unless otherwise directed, oyster sauce, egg sauce, shrimp or parsley sauce. Cod (fried) requires anchovy or white sauce, and frequently tartare sauce. Salmon (boiled).—Flollandaise, lobster or shrimp sauce, sliced cucumber, plain, or dressed as salad. Salmon (grilled).—Maitre d’hotel, anchovy or lobster butter, Salmon (cold).—Mayonnaise or tartare sauce and cucumber salad. Soles (boiled or steamed).—White sauce, anchovy sauce or shrimp sauce. Soles (fried).—Cut lemon, and anchovy or white sauce if desired. Turbot (boiled).—Hollandaise, bechamel, anchovy, lobster, shrimp or parsley sauce. Mackerel (boiled).—Fennel or parsley sauce. Herrings (grilled).—Mustard sauce. Trout (boiled or grilled).—Hollandaise sauce or oiled butter. Skate (boiled).—Nut-brown butter (beurre noir) or parsley sauce. Whiting (fried).—Cut lemon, anchovy or plain white sauce.POPULAR ACCOMPANIMENTS WITH DISHES. -II Smelts (fried).—Cut lemon and fried parsley. Plaice (fillets, fried).—White or anchovy sance with cpiarter of lemon. Red Mullets (grilled or boiled).—Parsley butter, tomato or sharp brown sauce. Meat (Joints). Beef (roast, sirloin). - -Ribs and top sides, Yorkshire pudding, hot or cold horse-radish sance, or scraped horse-radish ancl gravy. Beef (boiled, fresh).—Boiled cabbage and other vegetables, carrots, tnrnips, etc., and liquor. Beef (boiled, pickled or salted).—Suet dumplings, plain or savoury, caiTots, turnips, onions, and licpior. Beef (cold).—Pickles, relishes, and sauces, home-made or manu- factured. Calf’s Head (boiled).—Parsley sauce or brown sauce, brain puree or brain sance and bacon. Mutton (boiled, leg or neck).—Caper sauce and vegetable garnish, carrots and turnips. Mutton (roast, saddle, leg or loin).—Red-currant jelly and gravy. Mutton (roast, shoulder).—Onion sance, baked potatoes. Lamb (roast, saddle, leg, loin or fore or hind quarter).—Mint sauce and gravy. Veal (loin, neck fillet or breast roast).—Boiled bacon or grilled^ bacon or ham, gravy. Veal (breast, boiled).—Parsley sauce and bacon. Venison (roast).—Red-currant jelly and sour cream sauce, also gravy. Pork (roast, leg, loin or neck).—Sage-and-onion stuffing, apple sauce, and gravy. Pork (boiled, pickled). —Pease pudding, carrots or parsnips, with plain white sauce, with liquor. Sucking-pig (roasted whole).—Apple sauce, stuffing, and gravy. Ham (braised).—Brown sauce, demi-glace or champagne sauce. Wild Boar (baked, roast or braised).—Demi-glace or madere sauce, red-currant jelly, sour cream. Rabbit (boiled).- Pickled pork, onion sauce. Rabbit (roast).—Sage stuffing, fried savoury balls, brown, tomato or piquante sauce. Vegetables. Asparagus (hot). -Melted butter, oiled butter, hollandaise sauce ; grated parmesan is sometimes, however, used. Asparagus (cold).—Oiled butter, vinaigrette or mayonnaise dressing. Globe Artichokes (green).—Oiled butter, hollandaise or piquante sance. Artichoke Bottoms.—White or brown sauce.42 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Jerusalem Artichokes.- White sauce, parsley sauce, demi-glace, Italian or tomato sauce. Vegetable Marrow.—White sauce, bechamel or maitre d’hotel. Seakale.—The same accompaniment as asparagus. Cauliflower. -White sauce, bechamel or hollandaise, and grated cheese if served an gratin. French Beans.- -Fresh butter, placed on top before serving. Broad Beans. White sauce., parsley or maitre d’hotel sauce. Green Peas. Fresh butter, mint flavour. Celery (boiled).—White sauce. Celery (braised).—Brown sauce. Cucumber.- White sauce, if boiled. Cucumber. -Brown sauce, if braised or baked. Cardoons.—Same as celery. Aubergines (Egg Plant).—Demi-glace or piquante sauce. Spanish Onions.—White sauce or parsley sauce. Vegetables for Roast Poultry. When poultry is served as a joint, the following vegetables, according to season, may be served : Asparagus, beans of all kinds, green peas, cauliflower, mushrooms, salsify, vegetable marrow, fried, boiled, mashed or saute potatoes, and macaroni. In other cases roast poultry should be accompanied with fried potatoes and green salad. For boiled turkey or chicken the vegetables are very much the same, but caiiliflower, turnips, stewed celery, macaroni, parsnips, Brussel sprouts, and artichokes are particularly suitable. Poultry. Chicken or Fowl (roast).—Grilled bacon, watercress, and bread sauce and gravy. Chicken or Fowl (boiled).—Egg sauce or parsley sauce. Duck or Duckling (roast or braised whole).—Gravy with apple sauce, sometimes cranberry sauce or jelly, orange sauce. Turkey and Capon (roast).—Grilled or broiled sausages, bread sauce, and gravy. Turkey (boiled).—Celery sauce, oyster sauce, and egg sauce. Pigeons (tame or Bordeaux).—Gravy, toasted bread, and water- cress. Goose (roast).—Apple sauce, and frequently chestnut puree, gravy. Poussins (Chic-chickens) (roast).--The same as chicken. Roast Game, Etc. Guinea Fowl (Pintade).—Bread sauce and watercress, gravy. Grouse and Ptarmigan.--Bread sauce, fried breadcrumbs, toasted bread, gravy, watercress. Partridges.—Same as grouse and ptarmigan.FOOD AND ITS DIGESTION. 4^ Wild Duck and Widgeons.—Orange sauce, gravy, watercress or some salad, sometimes orange salad. Pheasant.—Bread sauce and watercress, gravy. Quails.—Toasted bread, watercress, and gravy, at times fried breadcrumbs. Hare.—Red-currant jelly, savoury balls (fried), demi-glace or port-wine sauce. Note.—Fried potato chips, ribbon or straw potatoes, should, in addition to the above-named adjuncts, be served with all roast poultry and game. FOOD AND ITS DIGESTION. The following table shows the time required for the complete digestion of the more common articles of food. It should be remembered that the addition of fatty substances or acidity to food makes digestion more slow, while the addition of seasonings will further it. Food. Preparation. Time, Food. I Preparation. Time. Apples, Sweet. Artichokes Raw or Cooked hrs. min. I 30 Leeks Boiled hrs. min. I 30 Boiled Liver Fried or Sauted 2 30 Asparagus Boiled I 30 Lobster . Boiled 4 0 Bananas . Baked I 30 Mackerel . Grilled . 3 45 Barley Soup . — I 30 Marrow . Boiled 3 30 Barley Boiled 2 0 Milk Boiled 2 0 Beans Boiled 3 45 Milk Raw 2 IS Beef, Salt Boiled 2 45 Mushrooms Boiled 5 0 Beef, Lean Roasted . 3 0 Mutton . Broiled orBoiled 3 0 Beefsteak Grilled . 3 0 Mutton, Lean . Roasted . 3 15 Beets Boiled 3 45 Nuts 4 0 Brains Boiled I 35 Onions Boiled 3 30 Bread Baked (fresh) . 3 30 Orange — 2 45 Brussels Sprouts Boiled I 45 Oysters . Raw 2 55 Butter Melted 3 30 Oysters . Stewed 3 30 Cabbage . Calves’ Heads . Boiled 4 30 Peas, Green Boiled 3 35 Boiled 3 0 Pigeons . Roast or Stewed 3 10 Cauliflower Boiled 2 0 Plaice Fried 3 0 , Celery Stewed I 50 Pork, Fat Roasted . Cheese Melted 3 30 Pork, Salt- Boiled 3 L5 Chicken . Boiled 2 0 Potatoes . Boiled 3 3C Cod Boiled 2 0 Potatoes . Fried or Baked 2 30 Cucumber. Raw 4 45 Rabbits . Stowed 4 30 Custard . Boiled or Baked Rice Boded . I 0 Duck Roasted . 4 0 Sage Boiled I 45 Eel Stewed 4 30 Salmon . Boiled 2 0 Eggs, Fresh Raw 2 0 Salmon . Pickled . 3 30 Eggs Soft-boiled 3 0 Sausage . Grilled . 3 20 Eggs Hard-boiled 4 0 Soles Fried or Grilled Endive Braised . 2 45 Soup, Bean Boiled 3 0 Figs Stewed 3 0 Spinach . Boiled I 30 Fowls Boiled 4 0 Suet Pudding . Boiled 5 30 Fowls Roasted . 4 0 Tapioca . Boiled 2 0 Game Roasted . I 30 Tripe Boiled I 0 Goose Roasted . 2 30 Trout Boiled I 30 Haddock . Baked 3 40 Turkey . Roasted . 2 30 Ham Boiled 3 30 Turnips . Boiled 3 30 Hashed Meat . Warmed . 2 30 Veal Fried or Roasted 4 30 Lamb Grilled . 2 30 Venison . . | Grilled . I 4044 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER IV. THE KITCHEN. ITS CONSTRUCTION AND MANAGEMENT. The etymology of the word “ kitchen ” is somewhat involved. It is derived from the Latin “ coqnina ” ; in French it is “ cuisine.” The homely word “ kitchen ” is very similar in sound in various languages. Thus we hnd it to be “ cycene ” in Saxon, “ kiiche ” in German, “ kiokken ” in Danish, “ cegin ” in Welsh, “ kyshen ” in Scotch, and “ cucina ” in Italian. The kitchen is the place where food is prepared and cooked for the table, and should be looked upon as the most important part KITCHEN OF THE HOTEL REGIN.\, PARIS (ERECTED BY THE MAISON BRIFFAULT OF PARIS). of a house. This is far from generally being the case, for many people about to plan houses think that any room, however small and unpleasantly situated, is good enough for a kitchen. No greater mistake could be made. A kitchen should be one of the brightest and most convenient rooms of a house ; it should be well lighted and well ventilated, for the health and comfort of a family, or the success of a commercial establishment, depend greatly upon the results or the productions of this department. TheTHE Ki TCI I EX. ILLUSTRATION OF A KITCHEN IN A LARI.E HOTEL. success in cooking is greatly impaired if it has to be done in a badly lighted and badly ventilated kitchen. The character of a person’s work is more or less dependent upon his or her surroundings ; hence it can hardly be wondered at that some cooks, shut up in a small, close, and dimly lighted rofim, whose only outlook is ]:ierhaps a l)ack alley or an underground THE KITCHEN OF A FRENCH FAMILY MANSION (mAISON IHHFFAULT OF PARIS).46 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cellar wall, produce work which falls short of the standard of excellence in cooking. A well-ventilated kitchen is a pleasure to the cook, and con- ducive to the health of all concerned in or about it. Open windows are the best form of ventilators. When the windows are opened, they should be pulled down from the top ; but as some kitchen windows open from pantries, or entries, or passages, some form of independent ventilation should be adopted. It is desirable that the kitchen of an establishment, whether private or otherwise, should be large enough for the purpose of cooking, and adapted to the number of people to be provided for at one time. This is too often disregarded by architects, who sacrifice the kitchen to enlarge other rooms. Ample space should be provided for the range or stoves, tables, chairs, sink, cupboards, etc., and yet the room should not be so large as to necessitate much running to and fro. From a sanitary point of view, the drainage should be as perfect as is possible. There should be windows on two sides of the room, to allows the sun free access, and to allow frequent change of air, which is most essential in a kitchen. An excellent plan has been adopted by a number of business firms, who have placed the kitchens at the top of the house, where there is i:sually ample ventilation to take away all odours with which boiling, roasting, and other cooking •processes invest the kitchen and other parts of the house. Persons about to build houses should direct the attention of the architect to these matters ; it would save much annoyance and disappointment. In many houses and hotels the first thing that goes wrong is something in the kitchen, and the cook is often blamed for the fault of others. In planning the kitchen of a good house an expert cook should always be consulted. Kitchen Floors and Walls.—The floor of a kitchen should be of concrete coated with cement, or laid with tiles, so as to make it impervious to moisture. If the floor is made of wood, birch makes the best flooring, though liable to shrink. Maple is also considered a suitable wood. A plain brown linoleum makes an excellent covering for a kitchen floor. Wooden floors are best if saturated with hot linseed oil, which must be well rubbed in, so as to give polish to the surface. The boards miist, of course, be closely joined together, before oil is applied. The walls of a kitchen should be either entirely lined with white- glazed tiles or else have a high tiled dado. They can be kept much cleaner than distempered walls, which show every mark. Kitchen Furniture.—The furniture of a kitchen should be plain, neat, and w'ell made, yet not cumbersome ; it must be so constructed as to be easily cleaned. The stoves, ranges, grills', and ovens, being the all-important fittings upon which so much of the success of a kitchen depends.The kitchen. 4/ should be of i;he very best quality. The hxing of these ought to be done by the respective makers of the apparatus, for they will better understand the work, and it is to their interest to see that everything is carefully done. This applies especially to coal ranges, where the flues must, as everyone knows, be correctly fixed ; if the flues do not work properly, the most expensive stove is useless. Next to the stove the most important piece of furniture is the kitchen table. There are many dresser boards, shelves, and flaps, but they are useless to the cook as compared with a good kitchen table. It should be made of stout deal, as large as the size of the kitchen will permit, fitted with convenient drawers for holding knives, forks, spoons, clean kitchen cloths, and other necessaries. Not only should the table be the most prominent piece of furniture in the kitchen, to which all other fittings must play a subordinate part, but it should be kept at all times ready for immediate use, uncovered and scrupulously clean. The practice of using the table for a chopping-board, trimming-board, pot-board, or for making paste, cannot be too carefully avoided. In such cases, the surface soon becomes scratched and unsightly. Besides the tables, a sufficiency of cupboards and a dresser, with shelves according to requirements, should be provided. For the sake of order, cupboards with sliding doors are preferable to those with hanging doors ; they should be so fixed or placed as to admit thorough cleanliness, light, and ventilation. A good timepiece is also necessary in a well-furnished kitchen, being an aid to punctuality and economy of time. It should be placed in the most conspicuous })lace. A well-constructed sink is another indispensable article in a kitchen. Stoneware or iron-work is very serviceable ; iron sinks, however, soon corrode unless painted or enamelled. In a fully- equipped kitchen at least three sinks are provided, either in the kitchen itself or in an adjacent scullery—one of teak or other hard wood for crockery, one of iron for saucepans, and one of enamel or stoneware for vegetables. All sinks should be so fixed as to allow free access to all sides for the purpose of cleaning. Frequent flushing with hot water is recommended for sinks and sink-pipes ; a solution of soda or potash poured down the pipes once a day will remove the grease and other particles adhering to the pipes. There are many good rules for perfect management of a kitchen, but tire most essential are the following : 1. Maintain scrupulous cleanliness. 2. Methodical order and exactitude. 3. Wise economy and discipline. 4. Sobriety and honesty. It is needless to say that upon the strict observance of fhese rules much of the success of an establishment depends. Some cooks never seem to have finished their work ; they are always inTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 48 a muddle, and have scarcely room enough to work, a state of affairs which is merely the result of untidiness. With proper management a cook hardly knows what a muddle is. An untidy kitchen is a disgrace to the culinary profession. The kitchen ought to be the very last place where dirt and untidiness prevail. If we aim at being successful in onr cooking, we must remember the importance of keeping everything connected with a kitchen, and especially the utensils, perfectly clean. It is simply wonderful how much labour and trouble can be saved by method. Order and Forethought in a Kitchen.—The great secret of success in this direction is unquestionably cleanliness. Clean and clear np as you go. Keep everything in its proper place. Never put off to the last what can be done beforehand. Do everything at its proper time. These are maxims which every cook should carefully adhere to ; for by so doing they study their own as well as their masters’ interest. VENTILATION OF KITCHENS. The steam and heat from a badly ventilated kitchen disseminates a disagreeable, nnhealthy odour throughout the house. The ventilation of the kitchen should, therefore, be so perfect as to thoroughly remove all gases and odonrs caused by the various cooking processes. When the kitchen is bnilt on the top of the house this evil is to a large extent overcome. A ventilator placed just above the cooking-stove lessens greatly the discomfort from heat, for it carries off much of the superfluous heat, and helps to remove the smoke, steam, and smell from cooking. Where a so-called ventilating shaft is provided, ventilation is all the more effective, for a much stronger draught is then produced. The odour which arises when boiling green vegetables, such as cabbages, cauliflowers, etc., is most unpleasant—in fact, bad enough at times to take away one’s appetite for the meal of which such vegetable is to form a part. A simple and effective remedy for this is, in addition to having the kitchen thoroughly ventilated, to add a little charcoal to the water in which the vegetables are cooked, or failing this, a piece of toasted bread will be found of use. Cabbage water should not be poured down the sink, but should be emptied straight into the drain. To avoid the horrible smell caused from boiling onions, place a vessel of vinegar on the stove. To prevent objectionable smell from boiling fish, add a little vinegar to the water. To remove the smell from burnt milk, sauces, etc., sprinkle some vinegar over the hot stove. Burnt fat causes the worst and most disagreeable smell of all. A good plan to partially remove it is to put a handful of raw potato or slices of onion, or a slice of bread, into the fat, and to sprinkle vinegar on the top of the stove. The windows of a kitchen should be opened as much as possibleI HE KITCHEN. 49 every day, and especially after the day’s work is done, in order to disperse all unpleasant smells. The hrst thing to do in the morning is to open both the kitchen door and windows to admit a thorough airing. THE SCULLERY WORK. Every kitchen should be provided with a properly equipped scullery. It should be efficiently ventilated and lighted ; the floor should be level, smooth, and watertight, and in its construction precautions should be taken to ensure proper sanitation. The tanks for washing up should be made of teak for crockery and iron for saucepans, and they should be provided with a plentiful supply of both hot and cold water. There should be a conveniently placed receptacle into which waste scraps, etc., can be thrown. How to wash Dishes, etc.—The washing and cleaning does not fall to the cook’s lot as a rule, but it should nevertheless be under- stood by all cooks, so as to enable them to direct those under their charge whose duty it is to do the scullery work. Scullery work is by no means a pleasant occupation, but it has to be done. It need not be dirty, sloppy work, unless it be made so by the carelessness and untidiness of the women or men in charge of this department. The following rules for washing up will be found useful : Have a good supply of boiling water with some soda in it. Remove all scraps from the plates and dishes and pack them neatly together. Wash the spoons, forks, and knives first, placing them ready for cleaning, after the washing up is done. As the things are dried they should be put away. The stewpans and saucepans should be washed in a separate tank. Use boiling water with some soda dissolved in it ; thoroughly wash the saucepans inside and out. Have a saucer with a small quantity of silver sand by your side, and after washing the saucepan, soap the dish-cloth, dip it in the sand, and scour the inside of the saucepan to remove all stains ; rinse it well in warm water, and thoroughly dry it before placing it away. Note.—If a saucepan has been burnt, put some cold water in it and a lump of soda ; let it stand on the stove to boil for an hour, and then scrub it out with a saucepan brush. To clean Copper Moulds, etc.—The following is a simple yet satisfactory method of cleaning copper moulds, copper stewpans, etc. : Wash, scour, and scrub them inside and outside with hot strong soda water, then rinse in cold water. To brighten the copper, put some silver sand into a soup plate or large saucer, mix it with a handful of salt and a little flour, and moisten with vinegar. Dip a dish-cloth in the sand and rub the outside of the pans and moulds with this, or dip half of a used lemon into the sand : the latter is better than using a cloth. Clean every part of the outside of copper utensils in this way, and as each utensil is cleaned rinse Dso THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. it in cold water and allow it to drain. Rub thoroughly with a clean dry cloth and put them in their usual place. To keep copper articles bright for several weeks, an immersion in boiling ale used to be recommended in olden times. Steep the outside of the copper in hot ale and put-them near the fire to dry. Utensils thus treated must not be wiped after being immersed, STORE-ROOM AND LARDER. It is hardly necessary to state that both the store-room and larder must be kept scrupulously clean ; if this be neglected, they are apt to harbour disease germs. Both places should be large and airy, especially the larder. The store-room is intended for keeping dry goods, preserved provisions, etc., whilst the larder is used for storing perishable or fresh goods, such as meat, fish, and vegetables. Stores or dry goods bought in large quantities are usually cheaper, and it is advisable to provide ample room for proper storage of such articles. Groceries should, where possible, be bought in quantity, and it is well to remember that at certain times of the year some goods are cheaper than at others. All these details should be carefully noted, and a book kept to enter dates of purchase, quantities, and prices paid. A dry room should be chosen for keeping stores, and this should be amply fitted with drawers, shelves, and nails or hooks. There should be earthenware jars for sugar, tins for tea, coffee, biscuits, etc., and a net for lemons and oranges. Jams, pickles, and preserves should be kept in the coolest part of the room. Soap should be bought by the bar, cut up, stored with spaces between the pieces, turned at frequent intervals. Starch must be kept very dry. Rice, tapioca, and sago must be kept in covered vessels, or insects will get into them. Bread is best kept in earthenware pans fitted with a lid that has holes to admit air. If no pan is used, bread should be covered with paper or a clean cloth. Onions, shallots, leeks, etc., are best kept in the larder. Dried herbs in separate bags may be conveniently suspended from the ceiling or walls. Flour should be kept in an air-tight tin or flour bin ; it must be raised from the ground to prevent any damp causing rust. Butter should never be closely covered, or it will soon become x'ancid. It may be kept in an earthenware jar and covered, but the lid must be perforated. Milk absorbs germs of disease more quickly than any other food. Vessels, basins or jugs in which milk is to be kept, must be first washed and scalded in boiling water. The vessels containing milk should be covered with a clean muslin cloth or a piece of perforated paper. The floor and shelves of a larder must be kept scrupulously clean ; no stray bits of food should be permitted to remain in theTHE KITCHEN. 51 larder, or anything stale which might cause a bad smell, and which would be likely to contaminate other food. Meat should be hung up on proper hooks provided lor that purpose. The time meat should hang depends on the heat and the humidity of the air ; if it is not kept long enough, it may be hard and tough—if too long, it loses its flavour. It should always be hung where it will have a thorough draught, and be dried every morning to keep it from damp and mustiness. The cook and butcher often lose their credit by meat being cooked too fresh, as the lishmonger does by fish which he has kept too long. The ice-box or refrigerator must be kept clean and tidy. It should not be left open longer than is absolutely necessary. When meat or fish is placed upon linen direct on the ice, the linen should be changed every day. Sauces, soups, and other liquid food should be kept in earthen- ware pans or basins. These must be kept clean, the sides wiped with a damp cloth, and should be boiled up every day. They should not be put in the larder until quite cold. The shelves should be wiped down every day by means of a damp cloth, and then scrubbed or washed as may be necessary (carbolic soap is an excellent thing for washing larder shelves). No brushing should be done in a larder where uncovered food is stored, for the less dust raised the better. After cleaning the larder, leave the door and windows open to dry it thoroughly, as damp, dirt, and dust are most detrimental to any room where food is stored. KITCHEN ECONOMICS. It is scarcely possible that economy in the kitchen can be success- fully carried out unless the cook has a fair idea of the relative value of the various ordinary (inexpensive) foods and the cost of the same. To go to market and buy foods at a low price can hardly be termed economy, because if they lack nutritive qualities they are dear at any price. True economy means no waste. The French are often referred to as being the most economical cooks and excellent managers. Well, they certainly understand Ics petites economics better than any other nation, and it cannot be disputed that thrift does prevail in their country. May not their careful ways of economising partly account for the culinary accomplishments of the French ? France is not, how- ever, the only country where economy is studied. Indeed, every well-governed kitchen in this or any other country is ruled by the practice of wise economy. It is a subject that may be studied with advantage by every cook and manager. To be economical' means saving money, and saving money means earning money.52 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. There are few kitchens in England where waste is not cunnnon in some way or another. This is freely admitted by us, and other nations record the fact in sayings which have become proverbial, yet how few take the hint ! This is solely due to want of better knowledge and lack of thought. Mistakes nearly always arise from ignorance, from not thinking, and from not taking care. Cooks who are wasteful are generally those who are ignorant and thoughtless. They never get on in their profession. No scrap of food is too small to be used up in some way, so long as it is fresh and wholesome ; but before dealing with food let me draw attention to the waste of heat and its result. Many cooks are of opinion that the water for cooking a ham, a leg of mutton or other joint of meat, must be kept at boiling point until done. This is quite an error, because actual boiling, after the first preliminary stage, tends to harden and spoil the appearance of a joint of meat. Fast boiling in most cases destroys the delicious llavour of meat, it fills the kitchen with unpleasant steam and vapour, and a certain amount of fuel is thereby wasted. It is a well-known fact that much of the heat given off from the fuel in cooking-stoves is wasted ; only a comparatively small pro- portion is used for actual cooking ; the remainder goes up the chimney or escapes into the kitchen. Since one cannot help some waste of fuel, economy as well as comfort demands that such waste be as small as possible. The average cook, as a matter of course, prefers to work with fresh materials, rather than use up stale or left-over food ; but those who study the masters’ interests will make good use of so-called “ scraps,” and instead of wasting them, they will use them up and work them into suitable dishes. For instance, every cook will, with a little care, be able to use u]> stale bread to advantage. All crusts and small pieces of bread should be collected each day and be dried slowly in a warm oven. When they are perfectly dry, but not actually brown, they should be pounded in a mortar or crushed on a board with a rolling-pin, sifted, and put into jars. Breadcrumbs thus made will keep good for a long time, and can be used for crumbing or breading, moulding cutlets, fish, rissoles, croquettes, etc. Another way of using stale bread is to tear the soft part of the loaf into bits, and bake the pieces a golden hue in an oven : these are served with cheese, etc., and when baked crisp and of nice colour are exceedingly good. Stale bread can also be cut into thin slices and baked in the oven till crisp and brown : these small slices are served with soup, used as sippets or served with coffee. Sweet and savoury fritters can be made with stale bread ; slices are cut, spread with jam or cheese, and sandwiched together, after which they are dipped in batter and fried in hot fat. There are also a good many puddings (baked or boiled), tartlets, etc., in which breadcrumbs form part of the ingredients.Cold potatoes can be used in numerous ways., Tney can be fried, tossed or sauted, though boiled potatoes will never do to be re- heated and served again as boiled ; for in that guise they have a very peculiar wavmed-np flavour, which would tell the tale at once. Cold potatoes, when rubbed through a sieve, are useful for making fish cakes, meat croquettes or cold meat pies. Sliced, they make an excellent salad, if properly and liberally seasoned with salad dressing. A delicious pie is made with minced meat, moistened with a nicely flavoured sauce and put in a pie-dish,-covered with a good layer of mashed potatoes and baked in the oven. Mashed up with left- over cold flsh, moistened with the remainder of the white sauce and a little butter, a good material for a pie or croquette is available. Potato-balls and croquettes are also made from cold potatoes. Cold vegetables are used for salads, either separately or mixed with cold meat and dressing. Cold green vegetables, such as green peas, French beans, globe artichokes, asparagus, etc., make very good salads if seasoned with an ordinary vinaigrette sauce ; this latter is a mixture of three parts of salad oil and one part of vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Again, many vegetables, especi- ally peas, beans, sprigs of cauliflower, and artichokes, come in handy as garnitures for meat dishes and certain soups. Bones and scraps of meat, if insufficient for a special dish, and gravy left over from roast meat, should be put into the stock-pot. In order to assist the cook in practising economy, I have intro- duced a number of recipes for dishes in the preparation of which cold meat, etc., may be advantageously employed. TYPICAL FRE.NCH COTTAGE COOKING-STOVE.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 54 CHAPTER V. COOKING FUELS AND COOKING-STOVES. In this chapter I shall endeavour to deal with the relative values of fuels used for the purpose of cooking, and the apparatus in which fuel is used with that object. SOLID FUELS. Coal.—By far the greater amount of cooking is done by means of coal fires. The so-called mineral coal is the most concentrated of all solid fuels, and gives more heat than any other solid fuel materials. There are two kinds of coals, the hard and soft. The best example of hard coal is that known as anthracite ; it is more expensive than other kinds, but is acknowledged to be the most convenient, the cleanest, and therefore the best coal to use, because it has greater heating power than any other kind. Hard and soft coals are very similar in appearance ; but the latter differ from the fact that they fuse and melt when burning, which the hard coal does not. Their heating power is about equal. Coke and Charcoal.—These are mainly used for slow cooking processes, such as braising, and sometimes for grilling. Coke mixed with ordinary coal is recommended, because it forms more econo- mical fuel, though the heating power becomes somewhat reduced when coke, is used. Charcoal is excellent for many culinary pur- poses, but is rather expensive to use in this country. Wood.—As an exclusive fuel, wood is but seldom used for cooking purposes in England, though in many parts abroad it is still widely used as household fuel. Man’s first fires were unques- tionably made of wood, and it is still an essential ingredient through- out the world, as scarcely a coal fire can be lit without the aid of wood. Hard wood is the best for cooking purposes, such as oak, maple, and hickory. Soft wood is good on account of its kindling properties ; the resin which most soft woods contain causes them to burn more freely, the principal kinds being pine, fir, spruce, and cedar. GASEOUS FUELS. Gas.—Gas is now largely, and in some establishments exclu- sively, used for cooking purposes. This is mainly due to the great strides that have of late years been made in the manufacture of gas cooking-stoves. The modern stoves are vastly superior to the old patterns, and the ventilation of the ovens is now so perfect thatCOOKING FUELS. ss roasting and baking can be done quite as well in gas ovens as in coal-heated ovens. Coal gas was originally the only gas used lor fuel. Now, how- ever, air gas and water gas, as well as natural gas, are so utilised. The most perfect fuel is obtained from coal containing a due pro- portion of hydrogen. This is known as coal gas, and is the most efficient of all gaseous fuel, being a pure hydrocarbon fuel, and eminently suitable for both heating and lighting purposes. Acetylene, or water gas, is a mixture of carbon-monoxide and hydrogen. Air gas is a mixture of air and vapour of gasoline. Natural gas is obtained from the earth by boring very deep. The latter gas is similar in composition to coal gas, and equally as good. The water and air gases are both very deficient for heating purposes, and cannot therefore be recommended. There are two kinds of systems of burners adopted in gas cooking- apparatus, those which provide luminous flames, similar to those used for lighting purposes (the burner inserted brings forth a white flame), and those fitted with burners producing atmospheric flames. In the latter case the gas is diluted with air before being burnt. The products of combustion from the luminous burners are chiefly steam and carbonic acid, whilst the products of combustion from the atmospheric burners are steam, carbonic acid, and carbon- monoxide. The latter produce a blue flame, and the former a white flame. Luminous gas flames are preferable where a radiant heat is required ; but atmospheric gas is more generally used for all kinds of cooking purposes, because it is found to be more powerful and more effective. ELECTRICITY. The same electric current which serves for lighting streets and houses can be utilised for cooking. Domestic machines, such as knife-cleaners, coffee-grinders, boot-cleaners, etc., are also worked by means of the electric current. There being no combustion at all in the use of electricity, it is claimed that cooking done by its aid can be performed with much less heat than is the case with coal or gas, the reason being that no fireplace is needed, thus no loss of heat takes place. Electricity will in course of time revolutionise our kitchen arrangements. At present it is but little used, no doubt owing to the comparatively heavy cost of electric currents. LIQUID FUELS. Oils.—There are two kinds of licpnd fuels used for cooking, viz., oils and alcohols. Coal oil and petroleum are obtained from the earth and relined (purified); thev have the same fuel value, and are both hydrocarbons.56 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. The names of the various kinds of oil used as fuel are : Kerosene, Naphtha, and Gasoline. Of the three, kerosene is known as the most satisfactory, being more powerful, reliable, and safer to use than the others. Alcohol.—Common alcohol and methylated spirit are the only kinds of alcohol used for fuel. They burn with a strong flame (clear), are colourless, give no smoke, very little light, but a fairly high temperature. Both these alcohols, being very volatile, must be kept in stoppered bottles, and away from heat. Alcohol as a fuel is used mainly for the sick-room, lor keeping food warm, and for so-called chafing-dishes. Pure wood alcohol is poisonous, and though equally as suitable as methylated spirit, cannot, for this reason, be recommended as cooking fuel. COOKING-STOVES. When considering the choice of stoves, the economy of fuel forms an item of great importance. There are numerous cooking appli- ances on the market, more especially coal ranges, many of which, although capable of fulfilling the duties of what may be expected of an average cooking range, are so constructed as to consume far more fuel than is necessary. Cooking performed on such stoves must necessarily be extravagant. Economy in cooking, as well as in other branches of household management, should ever be con- sidered by all classes : one would think that economy in fuel for cooking was too apparent to need any special comment, but it is often overlooked. Good as well as economical cooking depends, next to culinary skill, almost entirely on the way in which the selected materials used are treated, mixed or blended, and on the apparatus by whose means they are cooked. Faultiness in any one of these particulars can utterly spoil an entire meal, even if the other features should be perfect. There are some persons in the cookery world still li\’ing ho can remember the time when they had to bend over a cooking fire, consisting of burning logs laid in the rear of a wide-mouthed fire- place ; when bread and cakes were cooked in a common skillet; and who had to fry or broil over a heap of burning coals, and at the same time watch the coffee-pot or tea-kettle to see that it did not fall over. This primitive mode of cooking dates back to the earliest period on record, when boiling and baking had to be performed in vessels suspended over a fire, and roasting on a spit was effected in a similar rudimentary manner. The earliest records of cooking fires show that they were usually made on a hearth of stones, with other suitable stones built up as a support to the cooking vessels. The fuel then used was wood and charcoal. The Egyptians and other ancient races used the still interesting57 COOKING-STOVES. and historical kail-pot for cooking their food. A similar metal pot was also used for baking bread and pies. It was closed nj) and buried bodily in burning peat and hot ashes. In the ordinary way the “ kail-pot ” consisted of a large caldron of brass or other metal. The tripod and the caldron are the earliest cooking apparatus mentioned. The former consisted of three rods of iron or hard wood, which were fastened together at the top with an iron hook, serving at the same time to hold the handle of the kettle or caldron. In connection with these a kind of frying-pan was also u.sed, which, according to tradition, served for cooking certain delicate cakes and hsh. In the days when there were no cooking ranges, and consequently no boilers, caldrons were i;sed for heating water, and also for boiling hire articles of linen or muslin, such as the kerchiefs of the mistress and the babies’ caps and robes. In royal households these caldrons A BROCHE SPIT, TURNED BY A " TURNSPIT DOG.” were sometimes of gold or silver, and pompously adorned the great carved dressers of the day, hanked by tall chased silver candle- sticks.^ Frying-pans were gradually evolved from small caldrons or marmites, and the long handles were at hrst called tails. Roasting before a radiant heat has been known for many cen- turies. Roasting spits were in general use in England during the fourteenth and hfteenth centuries. Spits were then, as now, used for supporting joints and birds before the lire. These spits were at hrst turned by hand ; but for a long time after, in large kitchens, dogs, known as “ turnspits,” were specially trained to do the duty of turning the spit. The breed of these useful dogs has long since become extinct. The smoke-jacks, which are still found in the kitchens of some old mansions, were next introduced. These were turned by means of the smoke from the old-fashioned open coal range. They were the prototypes of the clock-work bottle-jacks. The next part with which I wish to deal is that of cookingTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 58 apparatus, stoves or ranges that are heated by means of coal. The success of cooking has a great deal to do with the kind of cooking apparatus used. That success depends largely on the following points :— (a) Perfect construction. (b) Perfect draughts and flues (c) Perfect working. Success depends, further, upon the management of the fire, dampers, and flues used, and the skill of the cook as a stoker. Coal cooking-stoves and ranges are constructed of malleable iron, steel, cast iron, and wrought iron. Stoves at a very low price cannot be recommended with confidence, because they usually waste fuel, frequently smoke, and are constantly out of order ; whilst well- constructed stoves from reliable makers, which are air-tight, made Baking. ("Eagle” Range). Roasting. SECTION OF A COOKING-STOVE, SHOWING HOW THE HEAT SHOULD CIRCULATE. from good and serviceable material, not only give more evenly and easily regulated heat, but are better in many other respects. Good stoves should not allow gases and fumes to escape from the fire- box into the oven ; they should be so constructed as not to allow cinders and soot to get into the oven, and should protect the fire- box and oven from undue draughts, which make the heat uneven and utireliable both in the oven and on top of the stoves. The above is an “ Eagle ” range, with the front plate removed to exhibit the arrangement of the flues by which the ovens are heated. The right-hand or roasting oven has the fire working first over and then down the side, and lastly underneath the bottom ; this is the best arrangement for meat roasting and general cooking.COOKINGSro VES. S9 The left-hand or pastry oven has the hre passing down the side first and then underneath the bottom, and up tlie far side ; this gives the necessary bottom heat for baking pastry, bread, pies, etc. By simply pushing in or pulling out a knob, this oven can be heated from the top or bottom as may be required. A really good and reliable pastry oven should have a THE “mistress” cooking RANGE. reversing damper by which the heat may be directed to top or bottom at will, so that, wdien needed, it can be converted into a roaster (see illustration on p. 58). The illustrations of stoves given are of various makes and have been selected from the most reliable sources, as being the best of their kinds, economical to use, ancl in every other respect fully ti'ustw'orthy as to the requirements for up-to-date cooking and baking. The so-called open range is an ideal coal-devouring cooking range, and as it is being rapidly discarded w'e need not devote much attention to it. There are, of course, hundreds of open ranges of the old- fashioned type still in daily use, and it wall be some years yet before they become quite extinct. The open range, how^ever. AN ENGLISH COAL RANGE (THE “HERALD").6o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. has one strong point in its favour : it will roast in front of the lire. This is, with the exception of very small kitcheners, also possible with the modern cooking-stoves, which are so constructed that a closed range stove can be converted by a simple movement to give out enough radiant heat admirably suitable for front roasting, the result of which is invariably better than that obtained by means of an open range. CENTRAL RANGES WITH UNDERGROUND FLUES. All these ranges are built on one principle. Nowadays, the boilers A and B, shown in the sketch, are generally done away with, as the hot water is supplied by some other means. The hot-plate A FRENCH CENTRAL COOKING-RANGE WITH UNDERGROUND FLUES. closets, X and Y, are also left out very often, as they are of little use in an hotel and restaurant range, and the ovens can be made higher if there is nothing underneath. The dames travel over the roof of the ovens in F and e, down the sides and between the ovens and boilers, and thence under the ovens in T and n, and down the under- ground Hues. I and L and P and R are iron slides left in the door of the oven and the roof of the hot-plate closet respectively, to allow an easy cleaning of the dues. 5 and 6 are the regulating dampers, which are worked by means of the handles of i and 2. z is the ash-pan, and w a slide to regulate the inlet of air into the furnace. RANGES TO STAND AGAINST A WALL. These ranges are built on the same principle as the central range, the only difference being that the smoke, instead of being forced down the underground dues, runs into a due inside the range at its back, wherefrom it is diverted into an upright due on topCOOKING-STO VES. 61 of the range, or into a flue which comes ont on the side and is connected with the flues of the building. In either case a circulating boiler can be placed at the back or at the side of the Are place, ready for connection wath a circulating tank which will supply hot water all over the house. It may be a high-pressure or a low^-pressure boiler. The former are generally used as being cheaper, because the length of w'ater piping required is not so great (this is the chief expense in hot-w^ater fitting), but the latter are much safer, especially in cold countries, w-here the water is liable to get frozen in the pipes. A few^ years ago ranges were built so as to get tw'o or more ovens heated by the same fireplace, for economy’s sake. But it is a mistake \vhere first-class cuisine is required, and our motto is : One fireplace for each oven. THE MANAGEMENT AND CARE OF STOVES. Every method of cooking depends solely on the manner and facility with wEich the heat is applied. It is an easy matter to regulate the heat of the hot-plate or oven wdiere gas, oil or elec- tricity is used : for here one is able to secure and maintain any and every degree of heat without trouble. In the case of a w'ood or coal stove, however, special care and management are necessary. Much food as w^ell as time is often wasted by persons who do not understand how to manage the heat of a cooking-stove, and many do not even know how to light the fire, far less how to regulate the heat of an oven or clean the oven flues Laying the Fire.—The first thing to master is the laying of a fire, or the building and care of fires. To do this successfully the grate must be cleared from cinders and ashes ; the cinders, on being freed from the ashes, should be utilised again. All flues must be cleared, and the underneath part of the flues (under the ovens) must be cleaned out at least once a week. To make a fire, open all draughts, lay enough cinders on the bars at the bottom of the grate (made for the purpose of letting the air in), so as to protect the metal and temper heat ; crumple up some paper and place it upon the cinders in the grate ; on this lay some thin pieces of wood (kindling wood) crossways so as to make a current of air ; npon this place a layer of coals, then another layer of wood sticks, and some more coal. Now' set light to the paper, and you w'ill find that the fire will burn up brightly ; w'hen the wood, etc., ignite, add more coal, close the smoke damper, and keep the draught damper at the bottom of the grate open till the fire looks red, then close the draught doors or dampers. Draughts are slides or small doors attached below the fire-box ; r^py are provided to allow a current of cold air to pass over the fire so as to combustion. Damper.—ThiThs a fiat plate, of round or square shape, which.62 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. when closed, prevents the draught in direct communication with the chimney flue. When dampers are opened, the heat (or most.of it) will go up the chimney, and as the combustion of coal is rapid, much heat will then be wasted. How to Clean a Close Range.—After having removed all ashes and cinders from fhe grate and hearth, take out one of the soot doors (the one nearest to the chimney), and Svveep it out by means of a flue brush as far as it is possible. When there is more than one soot door or trap, remove each in turn and clean out, but never remove more than one at a time. Having done this, sweep up carefully all the soot and ashes from the lowest soot door, and remove it. A flue brush is a brush witli a wire handle which will bend into the flues ; it is similar in shape to an ordinary bottle A MODERN HOTEL COOKING RANGE. brush. Sweep the inside of the oven, and wash it thoroughly with hot water and soda, so as to remove all grease ; leave the door open to dry. Next wasli the top and front of the stove. When dry, mix some black-lead (Nixey’s) with a little water or turpentine—the latter assists in removing the grease. Apply the black-lead with a small stiff brush, and polish fhe top and exterior of the stove with a soft dry brush. Black-lead should never be apiflied until the stove is perfectly clean, free from dust, and diy. Soft paper, ordinary kitchen paper, or newspaper, is often used for a final polish. Gas Stoves,—Gas is now largely used for cooking, and gas cooking-stoves have taken the place of the coal range in many kitchens. Cooking by gas has proved eminently satisfactory', especially during the hot weather. It is more economical, becauseCOOKING-STO VES. 63 meat roasted by gas has been found to lose less in weight than when cooked in a coal range. In other words, a larger amount of the nutritious juices of meat are retained when it is cooked by gas ; hence it must be accepted as being an economical mode of cooking. Gas can be used for every purpose for which a wood or coal range is used. It involves less trouble, less labour, it is more easily controlled, and can be turned out immediately the cooking is done. The heat of a gas stove can be regulated with minute exactness, the required heat can be got just at the time it is wanted, and it can be. regulated from a slow simmering hre to a brisk boiling or baking heat at a moment’s notice. Hence there is little or no waste or loss. Oil Stoves.—These stoves are also convenient and economical to use, and are especially adapted for small families, for camp and yacht cookery ; but they require special care, as they are also likely to be danger- ous from explosion, which occurs when they are not well looked after. Kit- chens or other rooms where oil stoves are used, must be well ventilated. The wicks must be kept well trimmed, or the burners will smell and smoke—a smoke which is most dis- agreeable, if not dangerous to health. All oil stoves are portable, no flue being required ; they can be carried from place to place at will. They are economical, because they consume about 20 per cent, less in fuel than other cooking-stoves. Oil stoves are constructed on much the same principle as oil lamps used for lighting j)urposes, and require equal care and attention. A well- constructed, cleanly kept, and well-managed oil stove will cook food as well as any other stove, and with due care the cooking should be performed without smoke or odour from the flame, which should in no wise come in contact with the food to be cooked. Electric Stoves.—As already stated, the electric current that serves for lighting streets and houses can be utilised for cooking, but cooking by electricity has not yet become popular. It is claimed that cooking can be carried on with the production of lar less heat when electricity is used than when coal is employed, for the very simple reason that no fireplace is used, and consequentlyI HE A'£II’ CENTURY COOKERY BOOK: 64 there is no loss of heat up the chimney. The electric stoves at present used resemble in outward appearance the ordinary type of gas stoves, but the interior arrangements are different ; the whole of the interior being enclosed by the addition of a bottom plate, and as no line is required, no opening is left at the top of the oven. The electric wires are imbedded in an insulating enamel to the surface to be heated, and the heat is produced solely by the passage of electricity. Switches are used to control the current, which can be sent through any part of the oven wherever heat is reqiiired. Thus the top, the bottom, sides or back of the oven may be heated independently of each other, or the whole may be turned on at once. To heat up the oven in the first instance, it is usual to turn on full power for, say, fifteen minutes, and when cooking temperature is reached the whole of the switches may be turned off, and cooking ELECTRIC ROASTING-P.\N. ELECTRIC STEW-PAN. carried on for some considerable time without any electricity what- ever. If, however, the temperature is required to be kept constant, the turning on of one heating surface, such as the bottom plate, will be all that is necessary. There is no combustion whatever, and therefore no products of combustion inside the oven. It is found that, on account of the even temperature, cooking may be carried on in any part of the oven with equal facility, and burning does not take place. Electrically heated grills are also constructed, while stew-pans and frying-pans are provided with double bottoms, between which the conducting wires are placed. By merely con- necting these ntensils with the electric current, they can be heated ; and they can be placed in almost any room, quite independently of any stoves.65 CHAPTER VI. ON COOKING TEMPERATURES. The chief factor in cooking is heat, the laws of which even now are not completely undei'stood in the scientific world. It is a most difficult study, and the average cook may be pardoned if he shows ignorance on the subject; nevertheless, a certain amount of theoretical knowledge is necessary to all who wish to advance in their profession and show a uniform excellence in their work. We know that the action of heat on foods is partly chemical and partly mechanical, and is manifested in a great variety of ways. This should teach us that mere happy-go- lucky methods will not be sufficient. Study and the observance of well- established rules (modified according to circumstances) are necessary. TABLE SHOWING THE EXACT REGISTER ON THE SACCHAROMETER IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH. Degrees of Degrees of Fahrenheit. Centigrade. I. Small thread 215 Petit filet ou lisse . loi II. Lai'gethread 217 Grand lisse . 102 lit. Little pearl . 220 Petit perle . 105 IV. Large pearl . 222 Grand perle 106 V. Small blow . 230 Petit souffle no VI. Small ball . 237 Petit boule . 114I VII. Large ball . 247 Grand boule 119I VIII. Small crack . 290 Petit casse . 143 IX. Large crack . 312 Grand casse 154 X. Caramel . 350 Caramel • 175 The following degrees are the most useful in sugar confectionery. For transparent icing, 229 degrees. For fondant (new ball), 250 degrees. For sugar spinning, 280 degrees. For general use (the crack), 312 degrees. Failure in the kitchen can often be traced to the want of know- ledge of the proper temperatures needed for various kinds of culinary work. E GL.\SS SYRUP GAUGE (FRENCH).66 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. “ Cooking Thermometers ” have been found useful; for with their help beginners are better able to estimate the correct tem- perature for each process. By the aid of a reliable culinary thermo- meter, such as is shown in the illustration, every degree of heat from 50 to 500 Fahrenheit can be ascertained. When boiling, simmering, roasting, baking or frying heat is required, the thermometer shows at a glance whether the heat is as it should be to ensure success. Temperatures are registered with scientific precision, so that the fire of a stove or oven can be regulated just as required. The instru- ment is made of brass ; it will register the heat in a pan of boiling syrup or stock; it will hang on the side of the frying-pan, or stand in the oven ; it acts as a pyrometer, as well as a saccharometer for boiling sugar. Both the cooking thermometers here illus- trated can be obtained from any first- class ironmonger. The following may be accepted as a fairly safe guide to the tem- peratures required for certain methods of cooking : Boiling fast . 212 degrees of Fahrenheit. ,, slow 205 to 210 ,, Simmering . 180 to igo ,, ( Mutton 300 Oven Roasting - Beef . . . . 310 ( Game and iioultry 310 i Meat pies 290 Oven Baking 1 Pastry and cakes 320 ' Bread and puff paste . 340 When an oven registers 200 degrees or less, it is not hot enough for baking or roasting. Frying.—When oil is employed, it must be raised to a much greater temperature than either fat, butter, or even lard. For fish the fat should be from 360 to 375 degrees, according to the kind and size of fish to be fried. For meat, from 370 to 380 degrees. For fritters, etc., 340 to 375 degrees. Whitebait require a heat of 400 degrees, if they are to be fried successfully. The temperature of oil for frying is necessarily much greater than any other fat.6/ CHAPTER VII. CULINARY REQUISITES. COOKING UTENSILS, ETC. It is of importance that every kitchen, small or large, should be equipped with the best possible utensils. No workman can produce satisfactory results without proper tools, and it is unreasonable to expect a cook to perform his or her work in a satisfactory manner without the necessary implements. A good kitchen equipment is one of the foundations of good catering. There is no end to the introduction of patent cooking utensils and alleged labour-saving machines for the kitchen ; some of them are excellent and economical, whilst others are of little use to the practical cook, and many are dear at any price. It is difficult to give a complete list of cooking utensils needed, for this must, of course, be governed by individual circumstances ; but in order to indicate what is needed for an average large household kitchen, a list of the essential articles is appended. To each item in this list an explanation of the use for which the utensils are intended has been attached. LIST OF COOKING UTENSILS. For a Completely Equipped Moderate-sized Kitchen. The dimensions are not given in every case, as these must necessarily depend upon the requirements, and must be varied accordingly. I copper stock-pot, holding about i-| to 2 gallons I copper consomme-pan, for finished consommfe and purees g copper stewpans of various sizes, 4 to 12 inches diameter, with lids 3 saute-pans, with covers, g in., 10 in., and I2 in. in diameter I bain-marie, filled with 6 to 8 pans for keeping hot sauces, soups, gravies, etc. I round braising or fricandeau-pan, with cover I oval deep braising-pan, for cook- ing removes, hams, frican- deaus, fillets of beef, etc., and stock pot, for braising large pieces of fishTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 68 FISH OR ASPARAGUS KETTLE. I" ROASTING TIN WITH GRID. BRAISE OR baking-pan. I large iron saucepan with steamer, for steaming puddings, meat, etc. I fish-kettle, with drainer and lid, for boiling fish 3 iron saucepans, various sizes, for boiling vegetables, etc. I jack or salmon kettle, for boiling and braising fish, etc. I double cutlet pan, for cooking cutlets, fillets, etc. I copper preserving pan, for boiling fruits, etc., for preserving I preserving spoon I fish-fryer (deep frying-pan) and drainer, for general frying purposes i~7spoon-pan, for holding small J spoons and ladles when not in use 1 copper egg-bowl, for beating whites of eggs, etc. 2 shallow frying-pans, for dry frying 3 omelette-pans, for frying pan- cakes and omelettes I colander, for draining vegetables, etc. I sugar-boiler (copper), for making syrups, etc. 1 meat screen and hot closet, for keeping meat, etc., hot, also for warming plates and dishes 2 boxes of plain and fluted paste- cutters, for jellies, biscuits, etc. I box column vegetable cutters 1 box larding needles, for larding purposes 2 trussing needles, for trussing purposes 1 box cutlet cutters, for stamping out paste, etc. 3 large iron spoons, for removing fat, skimming, etc. 2 chef’s forks, 2 ladles, 3 ordinary table-forks 12 wooden spoons of different sizes 2 wooden spatulas, i string box 8 cook’s knives. 2 ordinary kitchen knives I meat chojiper. 2 pastry knives69 CULINARY REQUISITES. 1 cutlet bat, for flattening cutlets, steaks, etc. 2 oval tinned dishes for gratins, etc. I salamander, for browning the surface of certain dishes I wire salad-basket, for draining salads I copper skimmer, for preserves I wire frying-basket, for holding things to be fried, such as ris- soles, croquettes, fritters, parsley, etc. I wke slice, for the dry kettle I puree presser, to rub through forcemeat, purees, etc. I steel, for sharpening knives I meat saw, for sawing bones I marble mortar, and pestle, for pounding purposes 1 chopping block, for chopping meat, bones, etc. 2 paste-boards and i rolling-pin 1 glaze brush 12 tartlet tins 12 mince-pie tins 2 soup ladles 3 sauce ladles 6 tinned iron table-spoons I egg-slice I fish-slice I bread-grater 9 grocery boxes I pair of pastry nippers 1 Yorkshire pudding pan 2 cake tins or hoops 2 bake sheets, iron or copper 2 flour tubs I bread-pan I pastry slab I hand-bowl I water-can I coffee-mill 1 toasting-fork 2 coal-scuttles I spirit lamp for singeing game and })oultry 1 meat press, for extracting juices from meat and poultry 2 gridirons, i for grilling cutlets, steaks, fillets, etc., and i for fish-grilling STEW-PAN, WITH LID. STEW-PAN, WITH COVER USED AS SAUTE PAN. CHOPPING KNIFE AND SAW. FI.ANC RINGS FOR FRENCH OPEN TARTS. WIRE TRAV,70 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. MINCING KNIFE. CHOPPING BLOCK. MORTAR AND PESTLE. I sugar dredger I flour dredger, i mincing machine I spice or seasoning box to hold salt and condiments, pepper, etc. 3 whisks of different sizes, for whisking and stirring 3 pointed or conical wire strainers 3 wire sieves of various sizes, for sifting and straining I hair sieve and i silk sieve 1 glazing pot, for making meat glaze ** 2 timbale moulds 2 plain Charlotte moulds, for Char- lottes, soufflfe, etc. 2 border moulds, for aspics, creams, jellies, and savarins 2 French pie moulds, for raised pies 2 round flat cake moulds, for gateaux, Genoise, etc. 2 fancy jelly moulds, for creams and jellies 2 fancy tin cake moulds, for sav- arins, cakes, etc. 2 oblong baking sheets, for baking, etc. 2 square baking sheets, 2 paste brushes 2 plain and 2 fluted flanc rings, for open fruit tarts, etc. ^ 1 oblong pie mould, for French pates 12 small dariole moulds, for sweet and savoury creams, etc. 12 small plain timbale moulds 2 sponge-cake moulds, for sponge- cake and fancy gateaux 3 vegetable scoops, oval, round, and fluted I poker I shovel I bottle-jack for roasting I nutmeg-grater I ice-pail I ice-spatula 1 jelly strainer 2 forcing bags A set of icing pipes 6 enamelled basins 2 wash-up basins I offal or cinder box ; I galvanised iron pail i iCULINARY REQUISITES. Brushes and brooms 1 cafeti&'e 2 chopping boards, for mincing meat, vegetables, onions, pars- ley, etc. 1 set of scales and weights 1 saccharometer (syrup gauge), for testing the correct degrees of syrups, etc. 1 ice-freezer, or ice machine, for freezing ice mixtures, etc 2 fancy ice moulds and i ]>lain parfait mould, for moulding ices I wooden tub, for packing moulded ices I palette knife, useful for coating and marking I tin-opener, for opening canned goods I corkscrew I ice-pick, for breaking ice I set of meat skewers, for meat or game I spoon dish, for holding ladles, spoons, etc. I square or oblong double oven- pan, for oven roasting I meat safe, for keeping cooked meats, etc. 1 refrigerator, for keeping raw meats, fish, etc. 2 tin funnels, 2 wire drainers, used for marking and coating I set of measures, i quart to i giU I clock, to enable the cook to regulate the time required for cooking, and promptitude in serving 12 cloths of various sizes and makes, for straining con- somm&, jellies, and aspics, for turning sauces and pastes, for galantines, and for covering puddings whilst cooking 12 plates, 10 common dishes, 6 kitchen basins, 2 souffle dishes, 6 pudding basins, 3 pie dishes A set of earthenware fireproof casseroles SLICER. WIRE STEAK WHISK. TONGS. cook’s and palette knife.72 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. In addition to the above-mentioned utensils, it is necessary to have a well-made hard-wood kitchen table, fitted with drawers, and a properly constructed cooking-stove, capable of enabling one to carry out all the various processes together or one at a time. The above list has been made as complete as possible, but it may be modified or enlarged according to circumstances. The list would be considered excessive for a small kitchen, properly equipped for a family of from four to six, or even more, persons ; but it is insufifcient for ten or twelve persons. It will not be out of place to mention here that copper utensils should be frequently examined, so that they may be re-tinned immediately when necessary. It is of the greatest importance to health that every copper or iron cooking-vessel be kept in good condition. Besides attending to the tinning, all utensils must be kept scrupulously clean—they cannot, in fact, be kept too clean. They must be washed and scoured with fine sand, and well rinsed in water each time they are used. All copper and tin ware should be kept bright and polished. This should be the pride of every cook. lu conclusion it will be necessary to remind the reader that it is false economy to purchase cheap cooking utensils, for the best will be found the cheapest in the end. SOUP LADLE, MERINGUE SPOON, AND SAUCE SPOON. entree dish.CULINARY REQUISITES. marble mortar. scales and weights.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. SPICE BOX. (I. pastry FINCHER STEEL ICE BOX OR REFRIGERATOR. AND WHEEL. SKEWERS.CULINARY REQUISITES. 7S SALAMANDER USED FOR GRATIN DISHES. ETC. SPOONHOLDER. MINCING MACHINE. GENOISE MOULD. FLUTED BORDER MOULD. FLUTED gAtEAU MOULD. WIRE PASTRY DRAINER. FLOUR DREDGER.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 76 CHAPTER VIII. COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. BOILING. Boiling being one of those easy ways of cooking which everybody considers he can do—but, as a matter of fact, few understand this properly, because too little attention is paid to it—in consequence, we give it the first place, because it is a branch which needs and deserves more attention. It all depends how the boiling method is effected when cooking meat, poultry or vegetables, for by its application meat may be rendered tough and hard, or tender— it may lose or retain its flavour and nutriment. Boiling is one of the most common forms of cooking, and food cooked in this way is called boiled. The word “ boiling ” is derived from the French bouillir or boulir, to boil—i.e. to be in bubbling motion. The term “ bubbling ” applied to cookery, has a special technical meaning, viz. “ cooking in boiling liquid.” Both boiling and steaming are known as the simplest, most economical, as well as the most common forms of cooking. Meat loses less weight by boiling, steaming or stewing, than by any other ])i'ocess. In the case of boiling, the liquor—i.e. the water in which meat, etc., is boiled— can be turned to good account. Boiled food is considered whole- some, and is easily digested. Special points to be observed in boiling are : That the water should at all times be kept so as to cover the meat or vegetables or other things to be cooked. If it evaporates, it is best to add hot water, because the sudden introduction of cold water will lower the temperature, which is not always advisable. OVAL BOILING POT.COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. 77 COPPER BOll.ING PAN. In boiling meat, the addition of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, celery, bouquet garni, etc., is a decided improve- ment, for thereby the flavour of the article boiled as well as the liquor (broth) will be much better. The exact time for boiling and steaming cannot be fixed in an arbitrary manner. It varies from ten to forty minutes to the pound. Dis- cretion as well as experience are the best guides to decide this question. Boiling meats, fish, vegetables, etc., is, within certain limits, the simplest and easiest process of cooking. Boiling implies a process of cooking effected by immersion f(u- a certain period in boiling water or stock. Literally the expression “ boiling ’ incorrectly applied, as in most cases we do not really boil the food actually ; it is only the surrounding liquid that boils or bubbles. All liquids do not boil at the same degree ; but to boil water or stock means raising them to a temperature of 212° Fahrenheit, though in the strict sense there is very little cooking performed at this heat : most, in fact, is done a little below, which is the degree for simmering, slow - boiling, steaming ; or else considerably above it, as is the case with fats or oils, and these also have their boiling-point. Milk will boil at a lower temperature than water, whilst slow and gentle simmering often works out as low as 170°, never reaching 212°. Proper simmering heat is 180°. Boiling embraces two distinct objects, which differ considerably. One is to retain as much as pos- sible of the juices in the flesh, and the other is to extract the juices and to mix them with the water or other liquor in which the article is boiled. To effect the first-named purpose—that is, to retain the largest practicable proportion of gravy in a joint of meat—the meat to be boiled should be put into fast-boiling water, and be allowed to boil is both vague and oftfenTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 78 sharply for a few minutes only, whereby the closing up of the pores of cut ends of the soft libres will be effected, for as soon as these ends have become hardened from the coagulation of the albumen the leakage or exudation of the juices will cease. It is stated that albumen coagulates at as low a temperature as 120°, so that a few minutes’ immersion in boiling water which has a heat of 212° should amply suffice to prevent much of the juice from escaping. After this is effected the cooking must be continued at a lower temperature till the joint is thoroughly done. On the other hand, if meat is put in cold water and allowed to boil up slowly, and is then simmered until tender, it will be found that much of the nutritive juices has become incorporated in the water, which is then called broth. If this be carefully done, both meat and broth can be consumed, so that there cannot be much loss of nutritive matter. Salt meats, such as salt beef, salt pork, tongues, ham, and other salt, pickled or smoked meat, should be put on in cold water. The time allowed for boiling meats is from 20 to 25 minutes for every pound, according to the size and kind of meat, and from 15 to 20 minutes over. A leg of mutton weighing from 10 to 12 pounds will require from 3 to 3|- hours, if cooked gently. Fowls take from 40 minutes to i|- hours, according to size and age. Smoked ham and tongue should always be soaked in cold water for at least 12 hours. A large ham requires from hve to six hours to cook. Simmering at 185°, or even 200°, is undoubtedly far better for meat than violent boiling at 212°. With very few exceptions, the heat which is applied to produce more than the smallest degree minute or two, and then allowed to simmer gently for an hour. By this last process it will be found that the same joint is more tender, more juicy, and better flavoured than would be the case by quick boiling. SIMMERING VERSUS BOILING. TURBOT KETTLE. of simmering is practically wasted, the water being converted into useless steam. A fowl or any small joint, which is put into boiling water and is allowed to gallop for an hour or longer, can never be as satisfactory as if put on in boiling water or stock, made to boil for a79 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. WHERE ACTUAL BOILING HEAT IS REQUIRED. I3oiliiig heat is required for only live purposes : 1. In the hrst place, as a preliminary step in the cooking of meats in general. 2. For all green, and most other vegetables. 3. For rapid reductions of stocks. 4. For evaporating water from a sauce, an infusion or a decoction from vinegar, from wine or from milk. 5. For syrups of all kinds. For these purposes, and these alone, a cook should resort to what is known as quick boiling. Quick boiling can be brought down to slow boiling or simmering by the addition of cold water or cold stock. It is thus seen that boiling and simmering are quite distinct from each other. Quick and constant boiling will never yield, as far as meats, soups, ragouts, and some sauces are concerned, such good results as slow boiling, simmering or seething, as it is some- times called, will produce. When we speak of a boiled leg of mutton, or a boiled fowl or turkey, it is really not boiled at all—with the exception of the first stage, which occupies at the most from hve to ten minutes—but merely simmered. In boiling meat, a certain proportion of the nutritious qualities is sure to escape into the water and steam, for which reason the quantity of water should not be more than suffices to cover the meat, nor the saucepan an inch larger than is necessary to hold it. Boiled too long or too fast, meat becomes indigestible and hard. Hard water is better than soft water for boiling meat in, more of its tenderness and richness being retained in the former than in the latter. Too rapid boiling tends to overdo the exterior portion of the meat, while the interior remains underdone. This is the reason that when the meat has been kept at the boiling-point about hve minutes, the temperature should be reduced, and the rest of the process be more slowly conducted. Salted meat, in particular, should be very slowly cooked, kept simmering, and allowed to grow cool in the pot. The scum which rises to the surface of the water should be carefully removed while the water is near the boiling- point, as otherwise it sinks, and looks very unsightly attached to the meat. Genuine boiling at the stated temperature must, therefore, be described as a temporary j^rocess, being as a complete process only available for the hve purposes already mentioned. “ Simmering,” on the other hand, is an operation with a varied scope in cookery, and as such can justly be described as the middle point of culinary heat applied for cooking certain foods.So IHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. STEAMING. Steaming is a pi'ocess very similar to boiling, for it is cooking in the heated vapour of water. This practice as a means of cookery is largely adopted in hotels, clubs, schools, hospitals, prisons, barracks, workhouses, and other large institutions. It is also frequently applied in ordinary household cookery for particular articles of food requiring a very slow process of cooking. The extent of this depends greatly upon the appliances at hand. An ordinary kitchen steamer, fixed to the top of a large saucepan, with a close- fitting lid, is generally all that is required in this direction for simple house- hold cookery on a small scale. If, however, steam- ing is required on a large scale, one or more large steaming apparatuses are needful to carry out this special process. The articles of food which are to be steamed are prepared in exactly the same manner as for boiling. There is probably not an article in the hatterie de cuisine more important for gradual, i.e. slow, cooking than a modern steamer. The experienced and economically-minded cook treasures this utensil most highly. Apart from the old-fashioned potato stea- mers, there are several improved patterns which are . so arranged that several articles, indeed, three or four courses, can be cooked in one steamer ; the appliance is constructed so that each article of food is in its own compartment, so that whilst the steaming operation goes on, the flavour of the other articles does not affect the con- tents of the compartments above or below. This is done by pro- viding each with its own steam-pipe, which is run along the side from top to bottom ; the steam, therefore, does not travel from one to the other. Many puddings, some meats, and some vegetables are con- sidered better if cooked by steam, and inasmuch as the process POTATO AND VEGETABLE STEAMER (main’s patent). This apparatus is adapted for large establish- ments. It is made of cast iron, with mahogany side panels. The compartments are fitted with galvanised wrought-iron trays with wire- woven bottoms.COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. of cooking is a very slow one, there is no fear of the food being destroyed by too herce a heat, as the temperature in steaming never reaches beyond 212° Fahrenheit. Fish, meat, and some poultry cooked by steam are as a rule tender, full of gravy, and digestible. The advantages of steaming over boiling are that : 1. The cooking is more gradual. 2. Puddings and souffles are decidedly lighter than when boiled. 3. No water can ever get into contact with the articles steamed. 4. A greased paper or cloth is not essential when a basin or tin is used. 5. Nutritious ele- ments are not extracted from the food. Against this the following may be men- tioned ; Steaming is m u c h longer than any other process. This necessarily involves an extra consumption of fuel. , Steaming is not only slower than boiling, but also more uncertain ■ for instance, if the water supplying the steam ceases to boil fast, GERMAN HOUSEHOLD STEAMER. STEAMING R.'^N OR BOILER, AS USED IN LARGE INSTITUTIONS.82 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the cooking does not proceed at all, nor does steamed meat ]:>roduce any broth. In other respects steaming is highly re- commendable, and more especially for invalid cookery, because the slower the process of cooking the more digestible foods become. MEAT SCREEN AND DRIPPING PAN. ROASTING. From the earliest ages rood has been cooked by exposing it to the direct heat of a hre, and roasting still remains the favourite form of cooking joints of meat or birds. The intense heat, combined with the free action of the hot air, produces and im- parts that savoury taste and fine flavour which is quite unlike that obtained in any other way. To obtain the best possible results, a clear, brisk, and yet steady fire is needed, particularly at the beginning of the process. The intense heat quickly forms a thin crust on the surface of the joint or bird, which prevents the escape of the juices. Roasting before a fire is cooking by radiated heat, the heat rays coming direct from the fire to the joint hanging before it. This can be effected by either a close or open range, as will be seen by the illustrations given herewith. Rules for Roasting a Joint.—i. The joint should be placed before a hot fire for the first ten minutes, and then be allowed to cook more slowly. The great heat hardens the outside of the meat and keeps in the juices. After this the cooking should proceed more slowly, other- wise the outside will be overdone. 2. The fire should be bright and clear. 3. The joint should be basted about every ten minutes, as this helps to cook it, keeps it juicy, and improves the flavour. 4. The time allowed is 15 minutes for every pound, and 20 minutes over for beef and mutton ; for veal and pork 20 minutes for ever}/ pound, and 30 minutes over. Pork should be well cooked. 5. The jack should be wound up as soon as the meat is ROASTING BEFORE AN OPEN FIRE RANGE, attached, aud re-wound when (WASTEFUL.) necessary.COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EEEECTS. 83 roasting in Iroiit of an instrnment like ROASTING BEFORK A CLOSE EIRE (ECONOMICAL. ) well in the centre or at one Roasting.—There are two methods of a lire—viz. Roasting on the spit, which is a bayonet rnn through the ? centre of a joint, supported on two forks, and is turned before the hre. In the second place, there is roasting by the jack or hottlc-jack —so called on account of its shape. It is wound up like a clock, and the spring turns the meat, suspended at its lower end, as is seen by the illustration. The spring of the jack should not be wound up until the joint is rightly placed. The heat is concentrated by means of a tin screen. All jacks are pro\’ided with the means of raising and lowering the joint at will. The basting tin should have of the corners, and must be put under the roast with a ladle in readiness for basting. The round tin meat-screen usually has a door in the back through which the handle of the dripping ladle protrudes conveniently handy for basting. Oven Roasting.—Roasting in the oven of ordinary coal stoves or ranges is considered less satisfactory than roasting before an open fire, although this is the means most usually resorted to. It appears also to be the most economical method, for experiments show that the meat loses less weight when cooked in the oven than when roasted before the open fire. A modification of this method, and a very satisfac- tory one, is the use of the gas oven, in which the joint is roasted under a sheet of flame from a number of burners constructed on the Bunsen system. At the present day these ovens are usually so con- structed that a continuous current of fresh air cir- culates through them, and this fact, by ensuring one of the principal advantages of roasting in front of the fire, has undoubtedly been a factor in the growth of the popularity of the gas oven. Elementary Rules for Roasting.—By way of supplementing the former remarks, it cannot be LA. ., , i5UllEi''..JALK. sumciently insisted upon that the excellence of a roast depends to a very great extent upon the amount of basting it receives. Basting should be performed at least once every 15 minutes. A little dripping should be added at first, to be84 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. used for basting until the fat from the meat melts. The more delicate joints are sometimes wrapped in oiled paper. Some cooks season a joint before it is cooked, others season it with salt and pepper just before it is served, but the latter method is the one iisually adopted. It is almost impossible to fix the exact DOUBLE SECTION ROASTING CRANE. time required for roasting each joint of meat, because so much depends upon circumstances that no hard and fast rule can be given. The proper time and process of roasting must be decided by experience and common sense. Meat of newly killed beasts requires longer cook- ing than meat which has been hung for a time. In warm weather joints re- quire slightly less time for roasting than in cold. Boned DRIPPING PAN OR BASTING TIN. ancl rollecl or stuffed meat requires longer cooking than the same joints would if neither rolled nor stuffed. A thick piece of meat must be cooked longer than a thin piece of equal weight. The meat of young animals and that of old ones recjuire different treatment. As a rule young flesh, con- taining less fibrine, requires longer cooking. White meat, such as pork, veal, and lamb, should always be well cooked, and must never be served underdone. Baking.—Antiquity has been claimed for roasting as a culinary process, but baking runs it close in the matter of age. Several instances are recorded in the Scriptures of this process. Pharaoh had as one of his officials a baker, who baked unleavened bread. And in the history of Britain there is the legend of King Alfred and his unsuccessful attempt at baking. Baking is simply cooking by hot air, and the hot air in an oven is likely to become tainted with the fumes of burnt grease, etc., which too often communicates disagreeable flavours to things baked, more especially to meats. This can be avoided to a large extent if the oven is kept scrupu- A DUTCH OVEN USED FOR ROASTING IN FRONT OF FIRE.85 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. lously clean and well ventilated. Pdjr braising, linking bread, cakes, pastry, puddings, custards, and many savoury meat, vege- table, and farinaceous dishes, the oven will always remain in favour. The ordinary oven temperatures are known by the following terms : Very hot, quick, brisk, hot, moderate, slack, slow, gentle. Various Ovens.—There are several kinds of ovens. One of the most primitive forms is used in some countries, and consists of an iron pot with a lid which is slung over a wood or charcoal fire, and then, when the article to be baked has been placed within it, some of the embers are heaped on the lid, so as to cook the top and bottom at the same time. The old-fashioned baker’s oven consists of a large brick cavity, into which fuel is placed and ignited. After the oven has become sufficiently hot the fuel is withdrawn and the bread or cakes put in its place. But these are not particularly clean, and have been superseded by hot air, steam, and gas ovens. Finally, there is the ordinary oven attached to the domestic grates and ranges, in which so-called oven roasting is effected. A gas-lieated confectionery oven, called the “Janus,” has recently been introduced, which, after being carefully tested, has proved to be eminently satisfactory. The heat of this oven is conducted all round the outside by suitably arranged flues. The heat inside is uniform, and is used to the last unit, similar to old-fashioned brick ovens, only more economical and cleaner, for no product of combustion can possibly come in contact with the articles baked therein. Stewing.—It is generally defined as a gradual process of simmer- ing in a small cpiantity of liquor. From the point of economy this form of cooking should be best understood, because it is the least expensive and most nourishing way of cooking. The advantage which stewing can claim over boiling or simmer- ing is that the more nourishing and soluble elements are not separated from, but served up with the meat, etc., the full flavour of which is thereby better preserved. Stewing is one of the most economical methods of cooking meat, because the coarser and cheaper parts of meat, which cannot well be used for roasting or boiling, can by slow, continuous stewing be made tender, palatable, and nutritious. The meat selected for stewing should be lean, or with but little fat. Stewing entails little loss ; all the juices coming out of the meat amalgamate with the gravy or sauce which is served with the meat. Very little fiiel and attention are needed to cook a stew after it has been set off stewing. The heating must be slo\v and gradual, never reaching the actual boiling-point, and the scum must A PASTRY OVEN.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 86 be removed occasionally. .Some meats and Irnits , nd certain vegetables are usually subjected to stewing. Only enough liquid is used to cover the meat, etc., to prevent evaporation. The following are the reasons for claiming this mode of cooking as the most economical : 1. Tough meat (coarse and cheap), unsuitable for either roasting or boiling, can be made tender and palatable by stewing. 2. There is practically no waste in nutriment, for solids and liquids are both served up. 3. Little fuel and little attention are required. There are two ways of stewing known and practised : the hrst is partly frying or browning the meat, etc., before stewing, and the second is par-boiling (Irish-stew type). Stewing is performed in earthenware covered jars and stewpans, in the oven or over the lire. To soften the hbres of coarse meat, it is often soaked or steeped in vinegar. Braising.—Braising (or braizing) is a combination of roasting and stewing small joints of meat in a shallow stewpan, called “ braisoire,” or braiser, which has a close-htting lid with a grooved edge round it, on which hot coals (charcoal) are placed, whereby the meat can be cooked with a hre above it as well as under it. This process of cook- ing, it is said, greatly decreases loss by evaporation. It is a favourite method with the French, and is supposed to bring out an unusually hue flavour and aroma. Viands to be braised are generally boned, and either larded or barded with thin slices of fat bacon. The pan in which a braise is braisoire or fricandeau pan BRAISING PAN. STONEWARE BRAISING PANS. to be made is always (or should always be) lined with a mirepoix (slices of bacon, carrot, onions, and herbs), upon which the meat is placed. It is usually moistened with stock, or stock and wine.87 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. The more delicate meats, such as sweetbreads, hllets, fowls, turkeys, etc., are sometimes covered with buttered paper ; this is done to prevent the heat from the top of the pan scorching or imparting too much of a roast flavour to the meats which are to be braised. Occasional basting during the process of this method of cooking is essential. When done, the meat is taken up, the fat removed from the mirepoix and gravy, which latter is then reduced, strained, and blended with some kind of gravy or thin sauce. Mirepoix.—The miyepoix, or bed of sliced carrot, turnip, onion, bacon or ham, and bouquet of herbs, is indispensable in braising. By this means is imparted a delicate flavour of vegetables and aromatics. Meats which are otherwise dry and of little flavour, such as veal, become saturated with juices, which render the food succulent and delicious. Spices and wine are sometimes used to impart their flavours. The process of cooking a braise is thus spoken of by Jules Gouffe in his “ Livre de Cuisine ” : The chief operation is one of slow simmering, for, he says, if the meat be exposed to sudden heat the gravy is insipid, colourless, and weak, as it too often is when prepared by careless or ignorant cooks. The gravy should be highly nutritious, of a rich, high colour and of cooking is most effective, and you at once obtain two admirable dishes instead of one, for when the braise is cold it is equally good, and affords a pleasant change.” Poeler.—This word has no English equivalent, but its meaning can be grasped from a description of the utensil and the process. flavour, and of gelatinous consistency. “ I advise,” he says, ” that for braising the quantity of meat shoulcl be large rather than small, as a long process should be large rather than small, as a long pn FOLDING BROILER OR GRILLER. FRENCH CHARCOAL GRILL. STEEL GRILL WITH DRIPPING PAN.88 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. The poele is a deep l'rying-])an, or earthenware fireproof pan, which is for cooking birds on a mirepoix. The bird is trussed and prepared as if intended for an entree, put into the pan, and then moistened with stock. The pan is next placed on burning embers or coals, and the contents are allowed to cook gently till the bird is tender. It should be frequently basted, and the stock replenished as it evaporates, so as to always keep the same amount in the pan. fituver.—This is another word of the French cuisine, the meaning of which is not clearly understood in this country. “ Smothering ” is the only English substitute which can convey the culinary mean- ing. To Hiivey or smother meat is to cook it slowly in a little stock without evaporation taking place, so that it cooks entirely and retains its natural flavour. This mode of cooking is always per- formed in the oven, and meat cooked in this style must always be thoroughly well done. Grilling.—Grilling, or to employ the more ancient but still used term, “broiling” (Fr. briUer—to burn), is cookery reduced to its loM^est terms, being indeed the method usually adopted by savages, who string pieces of meat together on sticks and hold them over or in front of a fire. But in spite of ifs elemen- tary character, perhaps, indeed, as a result of it, grilling is not infrequently badly carried out. G r il 1 i n g differs from roasting mainly in the fact that the pieces of meat thus cooked are much smaller. It should be done over or before a clear fire, a charcoal furnace giving the best results. The time em- ployed is always short: a chop or steak of average size should take from 15 to 20 minutes, and should be turned hve times during that interval. The heat of the hre closes the cut ends of the hbres, and browns the outer surface, so that the meat es- sences are retained. This brown crust once formed, the inside may be cooked to suit indivi- dual taste. On no account should the meat be pierced with a fork or skewer, for by so doing the essence will escape, and the flavour of the grill will be impaired. • A COKE GRILL WITH PLATE WARMER. The grill is constructed of fluted bars suspended on swinging racks, and has a gravy pan. The firebox is remov- able for cleaning purposes.COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. 89 As for utensils, modern cooks hav'e advanced beyond the savage’s stock, and usiially employ a clean, well-greased gridiron, though some use a frying-pan. In using a gridiron care should be taken to keep the fat from falling into the fire, for should this happen it may give a smoky and unpleasant taste to the meat. The use of the grill is not confined to meats, but under proper and competent management it may be used with great advantage in the cooking of fish, mushrooms, tomatoes, chickens, etc. A charcoal furnace is considered the best heat for grilling or broiling purposes. The value of the gridiron, its advantages as well as its abuses, is perhaps nowhere better known than in England, especially in relation to chops, cutlets, steaks, kidneys, fish, chickens, bones, mushrooms, tomatoes, etc. If properly managed by careful and competent hands, nothing can be made more tasty than a grillade. Frying.—The process of frying is in the truest culinary sense “ boiling in fat or oil.” Fat is but oil solidified, and oil is liquid fat ; nevertheless the conditions of boiling in oil are altogether different, and the effects to a certain extent con- trary to the mode of boiling in other liquids. For frying, the fat usually registers from 300 to 360 degrees, whilst boiling oil is about three times as hot as boiling water. In consequence of this, if articles of food are plunged into boiling fat or oil, they offer the very opposite results to what they do in boiling in liquid stock or water. By the latter method, meat, vegetables, fish, etc., become soft, and in some cases dissolved ; they become solid boiled meats, etc., or are reduced to the condition of piirees (pulp), while in frying they become firm, and ultimately brown on their outside, and if left too long in boiling fat they become black. When anything becomes dry through long frying, the cause is that the continued heat of the fat drives out all the moisture in the state of vapour. DEEP FRYING-PAN, ' WITH DRAINER. It is not generally known that when burnt fat is eaten in any form it causes great trouble in the stomach, etc. ; for soon after it enters the stomach it produces butyric acid, which is the most FRYING BASKET.90 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. unwholesome of all acids. When present in the stomach a gas is formed which causes heartburn. It is difficult to cook food in fat, i.e. to fry it, because it ought to be made at least twice as hot as boiling water before it is fit for use. Indeed, some fats make the quicksilver in the thermometer rise to 600° or 700° Fahr. When the dry frying method is employed, the frying-pan should be frequently moved about to prevent the articles fried from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Shallow and deep frying-pans or kettles should be made of strong iron with thick bottoms. There are two modes of frying : 1. Dry frying, which is frying in as little fat as possible, adapted for small pieces of meat, vegetables, etc. 2. Deep or wet frying, which is done in a deep pan containing at least as much fat as will cover whatever is being fried. This method is used for various kinds of fish, meat mixtures, paste mixtures, etc., but whatever is fried in this way must be coated either with flour, batter, eggs or crumbs. This is done to prevent the heat of the fat from entering into the substance fried. Brillat-Savarin declares that “ the beauty of a good fry is in carbonising or browning the surface by sudden immersion—the process known as the surprise. It forms a sort of vault to enclose all that is valuable, prevents the fat from reaching it, and concen- trates the juices so as best to develop the alimentary qualities.” Beef and mutton suet cut up very small, clarified, and strained, is used in most kitchens for frying purposes, though lard and oil will answer equally well, but in some cases these are not found quite so suitable. The light-coloured dripping obtained from roasting meat, and the clean fat taken off stocks, if clarified with the suet, are in a way preferable to anything else for ordinary frying. Frying in lard is best adapted for the more bulky articles. Oil is largely used for frying on the Continent, but more especi- ally in France and Italy, and of late years it has come into favour in this country. Oil requires more careful handling than either of the above fats, and needs to be warmed up over a gentle fire to prevent it from rising or boiling over (300°-400°). Butter is sometimes used for deep frying, but it is hardly suit- able, because it gets hot too quickly (150°), and is apt to burn before the article to be fried is done. Average Degrees of Heat required for Frying— Butter boils at 150 degrees of Fahrenheit. Lard ,, 210 Suet ,, 220 Goose fat, etc. 360 Oil 390 to 4009 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS. The heat emplcjyed in the ease of frying has to perforin the same work as it does in roasting and boiling. Its effect must be in the lirst instance to harden the albumen, or in other words to form a thin crust on the outside of whatever is fried. For this reason the fat must be hot and smoking before anything of the kind named can be successfully fried. The best plan to test the proper temperature of fat is to watch it until it is perfectly still ; a faint blue smoke will then be seen to rise—the fat is then ready for frying. A small piece of bread thrown into the fat is also a good test. If it turns brown immediately, the heat is correct ; if not, the fat is still too cool for frying. The principal causes of failure in frying are ; Putting in things to fry before the fat is thoroughly heated. Insufficient ejuantity of fat in the pan. Too much moisture adhering to the surface of articles to be fried. Sauter or Sauteing.—The exact meaning of the culinary term sauter or saute is not clearly understood Iw’ most English cooks. The translation of this word is “ jump,” but the correct meaning is conveyed in the word “ toss.” For instance, if we wish to translate ‘‘ Pommes de terre sautees an beurre,” “ Potatoes jumped in butter ” would hardly do, so that it is more correct and more ex- pressive if we translate it as ‘‘ Potatoes tossed in butter ” ; and as every English cook knows the meaning of tossing anything over the fire, the culinary term of ‘‘ saute ” is more perfectly explained or dehned in the word ” toss.” Sauteing may also be dehned as dry frying. F'rying proper is effected in a large quantity of fat, oil, butter or lard. This is called wet or deep frying, whilst dry frying is to attempt frying with an alleviated or a less severe heat than the actual frying in deep fat. This is done by using only just enough fat, butter or lard to enable one to toss things in the pan over the hre. The pan used for this purpose is either a saute-pan (sautoire or sauteuse) or an ordinary frying- or omelet-pan. The object of sauteing is partly to stir the contents of the pan and to prevent it from burning. This must, however, not be per- formed with a fork or spoon, but by moving the pan frequently backward and forward over a quick hre. A quick and clear hre is needed, because the article to be tossed must be cooked rapidly and equally throughout. We saute potatoes, beans, etc. Liver, kidneys, chicken, hllets, ej;c., are sauted either in butter, oil or lard. If cut in small, thin pieces, a quick hre is best ; if in larger pieces, a more moderate but well regulated hre is advisable. Twice Cooking.—Twice cooking, or double cooking, is usually employed when preparations on a large scale have to be made, most SAUTE-P.\N.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 92 of the dishes being, as it were, cooked twice, ^"ery tough meat, some kinds of fish and game, are said to gain greatly in flavour by being cooked twice, i.e. on successive days. But the most common form of double cooking is the making of toast, pulled bread, and rusks ; indeed, the last-named are called in Germany Zwieback, i.e. twice baked. By this method the food becomes more soluble owing to the greater completeness of the change to dextrine. Hence toast, rusks, etc., are frequently included in invalid diet. Of course, the ordinary word “ biscuit ” means twice cooked ; but except perhaps in the case of cracknels, which are first boiled and then baked, the word is not usually literally employed. Smoking.—This hardly comes under the heading of cooking, but as smoked meat and fish are consumed in many parts without again being cooked, the process may be considered as a crude method of cooking. The great advantage of smoking meat and fish, is that they can be thereby preserved for a long time. The smoke from the wood fire above which it is hung dries the meat, and the wood fumes give it an added flavour, which is the secret of the high estimation in SOUP-POT. GRATIN DISH. PIE-SHAPE DISH. SOME SPECIMENS OF STONEWARE (CASSEROLE) COOKING POTS AND PANS. which smoked meats are held. It is probable that this property of smoke was accidentally discovered, just like the first method of cooking. Cooking in Stoneware.—Stone or earthenware cooking appliances are used to very great advantage for various forms of preparing food. For the homely pot-au-feu the French housewife has used the fireproof earthenware marmite for generations, and does so to-day. But besides soups, all sorts of stews, delicate ragouts, and various savoury dishes are cooked in stoneware pots. Indeed, so93 COOKIXG PROCESSES AXD THEIR EFFECTS. much has this form of cookery come into fashion that many dishes are sent to table in the pots in which they were cooked, especially so the “ petite marmite soups,” braizes, and ragouts, and all dishes cooked “ en casserole ” style. Cooking in stoneware has no equal where slow cooking is aimed at, and there are many dishes which one would do well to refrain from attempting unless cooked in this fashion. The adaptability of a stoneware cooking-pot deserves to be more fully known in this country when it will be more appreciated. These cooking pots are inexpensive, and certain food tastes decidedly better if cooked in this way. For braising, pot-roasting, as well as stewing, which are slow cooking processes, the casserole has proved its superiority over the metal pans over and over again. It gives its best and almost exclusive service in the baking oven for poultry done in pot-roasting fashion, or for stewing fruit and other articles which need to be cooked slowly under close cover. There are few cooks who do not know that the application of a moderate, even heat for certain food materials - produces far better results than if quick heat is applied. For such cases the use of earthenware cooking-pots is to be strongly recommended, because by their aid an application of heat such as will ensure gentle simmering, steaming or baking is assured. Loss in Cooking Meat, etc.—The average loss in weight by cooking riieat, etc., works out as follows : Grilling . about ro Frying ,, 15 Steaming . „ 15 Boiling ,, 20 Baking M 25 Stewing . 1/ to 20 Roasting . . about 30 Chafing-dish Cookery. The chafing-dish, or so-called “ parlour cookery,” has for many years been extensively used in the United States, and within recent years it has become popular in this country. This handy apparatus is most useful for a number of cooking purposes. It is specially designed for use on the table, in order to prepare light hot dishes suitable for breakfast, luncheon or supper. The chafing-dish is admirably adapted for cooking scrambled eggs, stirred eggs, omelets, pancakes, stewed oysters, creamed lobster ; for broiling cutlets, chops, and fillets ; sweetbread ragout; for stewing tomatoes, mushrooms, etc., etc.94 THE jV£ir CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER IX, STOCKS AND SOUPS. (For individual recipes see Chapter XV.) It is an acknowledged fact that stock forms the essential basis for all meat soups, consommes, most thick soups, sauces, and gravies, and as such it is recognised as being the foundation or, as Francatelli terms it, " the very soul of good cookery ” ; this is not altogether an exaggeration, for stock is also largely used for many other culinary preparations. Stock is the liquid, or broth, into which the juices of meat, vegetables, etc., have been extracted by means of low and gentle simmering. Thus the chief object in making stock must be that of drawing the goodness out of the materials employed into the liquid contained in the stock-pot. There is a wide range of STOCK-POT (Marmiie). stocks,* from the simple homely bone stock to the double stock used for consommes, but the most useful is what cooks term the “ general stock,” which will serve not only for soups and sauces, but also for a vast number of other culinary preparations for which water is often used merely because there is no stock at hand. Every household kitchen wherein it is desired to attain some degree of perfection, as well as of economy, should keep a constant supply of good stock. Unfortunately many ignorant or over-careful cooks, as well as housewives, look upon the stock-pot as a sort of culinary rubbish bin, where everything which cannot be made use of finds its way. * There are four kinds of stock principally used in cooking: 1. Meat stock. 2. Game stock. 3. Fish stock ) These are called “maigre,” because no meat is used 4. Vegetable stock j in their preparation.95 STOCKS AND SOUPS On the Constituent Parts of Stock.—The nutriti\^e and liavouring qualities of a properly prepared stock of first quality are : albumen, gelatine, osmazome, fat, and alkaline salts. The meats used in making stock must, therefore, be carefully chosen ; they must contain a certain proportion of bones, and a small amount of fat. Lean meats, the cheaper or inferior parts, are very useful for the purpose ; but fat mutton or pork should on no account be used. Bones are useful because they contain and provide a considerable amount of gelatinous matter, but in order to extract this, i.e. the gelatinous elements, from either meat or bones, it is necessary that they be subjected to a heat of not less than 200°, and that for several hours, otherwise the gelatine contained in the meat and bones will not dissolve. Gelatine is obtained from the bones, skin, and the gristly portions of meat, especially in veal. It is this which causes the stock to form a jelly when cold. It must, however, be remembered that though a soup or the stock may be firm when cold, it is by no means the most nourishing. The gelatine from bones and gristle, sinews, etc., boiled into soup can only furnish jelly for our bones, not nourishment for our body. Gelatinous stock is more easily digested, but it is devoid of flavour, unless meat is added. Gelatine may be defined as the concentrated animal substa ce which gives solidity or bulk to stock. Albumen and osmazome are dissolved and extracted from the meat in water, which is brought to a temperature of about 110°. Both provide flavour, a most essential item in stock-broth. Osmazome is that part of the meat which gives to each of the various kinds its distinctive flavour, and the more kinds employed in stock-making, the better the flavour will be. It is more abundant in brown than in white meats, and more so in the meat of old animals than young ones. It is largely represented in lean beef, lean mutton, and in fowls. Osmazome is more highly developed in roast meats, and on this account all the trimmings, bones, etc., of roast joints should be saved and utilised for stock. Fat, being necessary as an element of perfect food, must in due proportion be used in all stocks. Gristle fat and marrow fat are the best to use in meat stocks, but these must only be used in very small proportion. Fat of this kind adds flavour, but that which is not absorbed must be removed when the stock is finished. To remove the fat continually is therefore not so essential, unless the meat used is very fat. To remove fat use an iron spoon. Put it with other fat for the purpose of clarification. Alkaline and Acid Salts are necessary for a good stock. These constituents are found in the blood and juices of raw flesh. This is the reason why raw meat must always form part of the stockTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 96 ingredients, whilst the various kinds of soup vegetables provide the necessary salts, etc. Rules for Stock-making.—i. Exercise care in selecting the pro- portion of meat, bones, and vegetables. See that everything is perfectly fresh, and that the utensils used are absolutely clean. 2. Cut meat and chop bones into small pieces. Use double the weight of water to that of meat and bones, the average quantity being a quart of water to every pound of meat and bone, used in proportion of f lb. meat and lb. bone. 3. Start the stock with cold water, and let meat and bones soak for a while, if possible, before being heated. Cold water draws out and dissolves the meat-juices remarkably. 4. Use a well-tinned stock-pot, copper, tin or iron. The former is best. For small households the earthenware marmite or stock- pot is highly recommended, as a smaller amount of heat is required to keep contents at simmering point than if a copper or iron pot is used. Stock thus prepared must be brought slowly to boil. Vegetables and their Uses in Stock.—Vegetables in stock contri- bute an important portion of the flavour. However, they should not be allowed to remain longer in the broth than is absolutely necessary. If, especially in first stock, these are allowed to linger in the broth, they absorb some of the rich aroma of the stock, greatly to its detriment. Overcooking (Simmering).—After all the nutriment from the meat, vegetables, juices, fat, albumen, and flavour have once been extracted, do not attempt to make further use of residue of fibre ; for it is dry and insipid, unless additional materials are at hand to make a second stock palatable. The French system in pot-au-feu stock is to remove the meat as soon as tender and serve it as bouilli. This does not affect the refill or general stock so much as the first stock used for clear soups, though it is always best to take out the vegetables cooked in the first stock, and replenish with fresh materials. Stock or Marmite.—The best way of making this stock is by boiling, or better simmering, a certain quantity of meat and bones, in a stock-pot, which may be iron, steel, copper or earthenware. The water must be judiciously apportioned to the quantity of meat, and so must be the vegetables used as flavouring. One pound of meat and bones is generally iised for each quart of water, and should be allowed to simmer from four to five hours, at least ; vegetables, such as carrots, onions (stuck with cloves), turnips, leek, celery, thyme, bay-leaf, and parsley, are added after the first boil, and when the scum has been removed. The water must be cold, and be seasoned with a little salt. The liquid in simmering should be reduced to about one-third of its original quantity. We thus obtain a bouillon. Bones of cooked meat and meat scraps, remnants of poultrySTOCKS AND SOUPS. 97 and game, should never be wasted, but hnd their way to the stock-pot. In using stock for soup, clear or thick, we have to remember that it has the tendency to turn sour when the air temperature rises beyond sixty degrees. Precautions against this can be taken : a. By using the freshest of ingredients, meat, vegetables, etc., in proper proportion. h. By boiling up the stock daily. c. By removing the fat as soon as it congeals on the surface of a stock. The removal of fat is most essential to all hnished stocks and hnished soups alike. Soups, no matter of what kind, should never be greasy. It is strongly advisable that stock for soups should be prepared the day before it is required. If this advice be followed a great deal of labour may be saved, and better results will be obtained. Stock loses nothing if kept for two days, provided it be put away in clean vessels (earthenware pans). Fish Stock, for “ Maigre Soupes.”—This can be made of almost any kind of fish, but oily fish should be avoided. Fish broth, as all know, is particularly nourishing, light, and digestible. Thick-skinned fish always make the best broth. The following is an excellent stock : Take 2 lbs. fish and fish bones, set it in a pot with two quarts of water, an onion stuck with two cloves, a few peppercorns, mace, and a bouquet. Skim as it comes to a boil, and allow it to reduce to about half its quantity by very slow simmering. A little white wine or vinegar is often put with this stock. Wine gives a specially nice flavour to fish broth. Salt must be added at the last moment. Preparations made from Stocks are summarised as follows : First stock (bouillon or broth). Second or general stock (remouil- lage) ; this is a re-fill of the first stock. Essences. Half-glaze [Demi-glace), a reduction of first or second stock ; and lastly, glaze. SOUPS IN GENERAL. Soup is unquestionably the most judicious beginning of a dinner, no matter whether plain or recherche. When properly prepared they are most stimulating, wliolesome, and highly esteemed compounds. No part of cookery seemed until recent years to be so imperfectly understood, especially by ordinary cooks, as the preparation of soups. The upper classes look upon soup as an essential part or course of a dinner. Properly speaking, it is the prelude of a dinner. The middle classes, generally speaking, appreciate the importance of soup as a nutritive and sustaining diet, whilst tlie poorer and labouring classes look upon it with disdain, which, to be quite plain, can only be regarded as a sign of ignorance. There has been a good deal of needless discussion regarding the GTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 98 importance of soup, some people finding in it a complete dinner, whilst others regard it as weak wash, though suitable for the nursery or sick-room. The Marqius de Cussy, a great gourmet of his time, described soup as the preface of a dinner, and said that a good work can do without a preface ; and, as a reply to this argument, the great Car erne is reported to have said, “ Why should the marquis wage war against soup ? I cannot understand a dinner without it. I hold soup to be the well-beloved of the stomach.” Whatever these opinions may be worth, it is an acknowledged fact that a plate of good soup or broth partaken at the commence- ment of a meal prepares one to enjoy the more solid portions all the better. It must, however, be remembered that a little soup of good quality is far better than a large cpiantity of poor soup. Nothing can be more disappointing to a guest than a plate of weak, badly flavoured, watery or greasy-looking liquid, which some cooks serve up as soup. The English taste, it will be found, is in favour of rich, strong, and highly flavoured soups. This does not necessarily mean that it is universally so, as even these may be and are judiciously varied by others of a plainer description, as circumstances may require, and in accordance with the needs and taste of the guests. Before anyone can pretend to make soup of any kind, it is absolutely necessary that he should be well and fully acquainted with the subject of stocks and broths and their preparation, for these form with very few exceptions the basis of every soup. For this reason a cook’s whole attention must for a time be turned to that subject in particular. It has been reckoned that there are between 550 and 600 different kinds of soup. The greater portion of this number is, of course, reached by giving the dignity of a separate recipe to every little variation, to all of which fashion accords separate names. Soups are divided into two groups : I. The fat soups prepared with meat or meat stock. II. The lean soups (“ maigre ”) prepared without meat. These are divided into two sections ; (a) Clear soups. (&) Thick soups. And these two sections are subdivided into five classes : 1. Broths, consommes or clear soups, variously garnished. 2. Purees or thick soups. 3. Creams or filtered soups. 4. Fish soups, bisques and shell-fish soups, and purees made from fresh fish. 5. Cosmopolitan or mixed soup. Garnishings.—The garniture for either thick or clear soups consists of crusts, croutons or sippets ; vegetables, either separate or mixed ; forcemeat balls or quenelles of fish, meat, game c •STOCKS AND SOUPS. 99 poultry, eggs ; custards made with eggs or eggs and \’egetable purees ; cliiftonade (finely shredded green salad plants, etc.) ; finely chopped or shredded herbs ; farinaceous preparations, noitillcs, batters, Italian pastes, rice, semolina, barley, tapioca, etc. Broths, Consommes, or Clear Soups.—In preparing stock for the above everything must be left to the judgment of the cook as to the selection of the proper quantities of materials needed, as the stock must vary according to the kind and nature of the soup which is desired. * The proper quantities of materials needed have been laid down in the first section of this chapter, dealing with stocks, which describes the ordinary practice of French kitchens. The difference between broth or bouillon and consomme is very great. Broth is the liquor plain and simple as drawn from the first stock, seasoned and garnished according to taste and requirements. This includes fish, veal, chicken, rabbit, mutton, and beef broths. A bouillon is a broth unclarified, made from beef stock, a beef broth (pot-au-feu stock). Consomme is double broth—that is, not merely in strength, but also in character. It is a beef broth which has been doubled with veal and fowl—the former (veal) to give it gelatinous substance, and the latter (fowl) to give it additional flavour. It must, however, be understood that while beef forms the basis of consomme stock, we are at liberty to add to it whatever else we have at command ; remnants of other meat, veal, calves’ feet, the remains of fowl, a whole fowl, or a leg of mutton when a boiled one is needed, a piece of gammon or even a ham, so long as the meat, etc., used be perfectly fresh and means are taken to free the stock from fat. This does not include scraps of stale meat or even bread, which are sometimes recommended as being good enough for the stock-pot. The necessary directions to be observed in making stock have been dealt with in a pre^’ious section of this chapter, which may be summed up as follows : (a) The gradual production of heat up to boiling-point. (b) The moderation of the boiling down to simmering, which must be kept up to the end. (c) Careful skimming. Upon these points being strictly observed the flavour as well as the clarification of a broth depends to a very large extent. Another detail, not less important, and one which applies to all soups, is that every particle of fat should be removed. We have already said that no soup, no matter of what kind, should ever be greasy ; that is why it is advisable to prepare the stock a day before it is required, and, if convenient, to make a sufficient supply for two days. When the broth cools, all the fat, which will be found to set on the surface, can be easily removed. In following this rule much labour may be saved and better results obtained. Stock loses nothing if kept two days, provided it is kept in clean and dryTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. lOO vessels, though in hot weather the stock should be boiled up once a day. Tap in Stock-pot. -The simple contrivance of a tap in the stock- pot enables one to draw off stock without any grease, all the fat rising to the top of the stock-pot. This is verj/ convenient, and abolishes to some extent the necessity of drawing off the stock to be kept over night. Clarification of Stock.—If due care is taken, a bouillon, sufficiently reduced, may be converted into consomme without clarification. There is really nothing which resembles consomme more than clarified bouillon, although as regards its quality it does not entirely take its place ; still it is often used in its stead. Ingredients for Clarifying or Clearing.—Lean meats, beef and veal, and the needful proporfion of vegetables, with or without whites of eggs, are used for the purpose of clarification. The usual quantity taken is for, say, four quarts of stock or broth : one pound lean beef, half a pound veal, both minced very finely, the meat being previously freed from skin and sinews, the whites of two eggs and the shell of one, half a pint cold stock, bouquet garni if liked, a small onion, half a carrot, celery, leek, etc., cut up small. Put these ingredients in a large well-tinned copper stew-pan, beat up well with a whisk, and add the stock. Allow it to come to the boil—that is, let it reach boiling-point without actually boiling. It must be continually stirred until it has reached that degree. Keep it in that temperature for at least half an hour. A large quantity will require an hour or more. Skim off the fat, not the scum, season to taste vutli salt, pepper, and a little castor sugar. Then remove and strain through a wet cloth, stretched over and fastened to the four legs of a kitchen chair, or else strain through a silk sieve. The consomme is then re-heated, and served with suitable garnishing. If any colouring is needed, use a little caramel. A con- somme must be perfectly clear, its colour must be that of sherry (pale) or straw. They are usually named after the garniture added. Purees and Thick Soups.—These are divided into two kinds, the white and the brown. Vegetable purees take the colour of the vegetable used. For white soups white stock is used, veal stock (blond de veau), chicken stock, etc. Besides the meat and vege- tables used, soups are thickened with flour usually cooked in butter or fat without browning (roux blanc), which forms the liaison, whilst for brown soups the flour is blended with fat to a dark or pale brown colour according to the kind of soup prepared. A mire- poix is often prepared in connection with the thickening process of either white or brown soups. All thick soups, purees, and creams should be kept well stirred with a wooden spoon, as well as skimmed occasionally.STOCKS AND SOUPS. All thick soups owe their distinction and names to the materials used in the preparation, the thickening, which is either meat, game or poultry, in addition to flour, arrowroot, and other suitable liaison. The most popular thick soups are : Chicken (a la reine), Windsor (mutton and beef), real turtle, and mock turtle, ox-tail, mulligatawny, game soups, velou- tees (veal), duck, pigeon, turkey, etc. Purees are thickened by the ingre- dients of which they are mainly com- posed, principally vegetables, including carrot (Crecy), artichokes (Jerusalem), potatoes (Parmentier or Jackson), peas, cauliflower, marrow, cucumber, spinach, Brussels sprouts, etc. The latter are, as a rule, served without garnish. Creams and Filtered Soups.—Almost every puree or thick soup, with the exception of brown soups, may be converted into creams by using cream in place of some of the butter and yolks of eggs. On the other hand, many creams can be made into purees by omitting the cream and yolks of eggs, and stirring in just before serving a small quantity of fresh butter. The following are some of the most popular creams known : Asparagus Artichoke Barley Lettuce Peas Sorrel Cucumber Cauliflower Tapioca Semolina Oatmeal Leeks Bisques or Shell-fish Soups.—These are prepared with fish stock or meat stock, shell-fish, and the usual thickening. History shows that bisque soups were made between the years 1700-1730, though they were not in the modern form of a smooth puree, but more like stews, for, in addition to fisli, quails and pullets were used in the preparation, whilst the modern bisque is simply a puree thickened with flour or rice, accompanied with various garnishings. Bisques are usually made of one of the following : 1. Lobster. 2. Cray-fish or shrimps. 3. Crabs or craw-fish. 4. Mussels or oysters. They are usually highly seasoned, slightly coloured, and less thick than either a puree or thick soup. The garnishing as a rule consists of a simple accompaniment. Fish Soups.—These are generally more acceptable in the sick room than for the ordinary dinner - table. Oyster soup is the only kind of fish soup ever served in the ordinary way under this heading, although there are other fish purees or fish Celery Turnips Sago Etc., etc.102 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. creams, which may with advantage be served as soups, especiaily during Lent. Cosmopolitan or Mixed Soups.—The remainder of soups must be classified under the last heading, cosmopolitan or mixed soups. The number of these preparations is both large and varied ; tlie Bouillabaisse, Bortsch, Krapiva, Okra, Garbure, Faubonne, Fer- miere. Gumbo, and other foreign soups, also fhe national soups, such as hotch-potch, Scotch broth, cock-a-leekie, etc., are included in this list. Sick-room Soups.—There are also a number of soup preparafions such as beef fea, frog brofh, beef-juice, chicken and veal tea, oat and barley broth, which come under the heading of soups. These apply specially to sick-room cookery, and invalid diet. Service of Soups.--Two soups are sometimes served for large dinners or elaborafe banquefs, in which case clear soup is served firsf. The fendencies of modern dinner-parties being to shorten the service, only one soup is served, unless the dinner is for a large number, when occasionally the choice of fwo soups is given, viz. a clear and a fhick soup. A light clear soup, nicely flavoured and prettily garnished, is far more appreciated, or more often selected, than thick soup when two soups are given ; though thick soups are also very popular, and should not on any account be discarded. In selecting the soups for a dinner every care should be taken so that the composition is not repeated in any other dish served for fhe same dinner. Note.—For Recipes of Soups see Chapfer XV. CONSOMME OR JELLY STRAINER. IMPROVED DEEP FRYING-PAN, WITH FRYING BASKET.103 CHAPTER X. SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION. (For individual recipes see Chapter XIII.) The Theory of Sauces.—Sauces, said the late Alexis Soyer, are to cookery what grammar is to language, and the melody to music. This shows us at once how necessary it is that every cook should thoroughly understand this branch of cookery. In no other part of the culinary art are the skill and knowledge of a cook so prominently de- monstrated. To be able to make a perfect sauce is, indeed, “the height of the art of cooking.” Brillat - Savarin, the well-known epicure and statesman, in his work, “La Physiologie du Gout,” very justly says : “ On devient cuisinier, on devient rutisseiir, on nait saucier,” which may be translated that cooking and roasting are things that can be taught, but that it needs genius to make a sauce. The most simple of dishes can be improved by the addition of a good plain sauce, whilst the most excellent of dishes can be made better and still more palatable by a well-made sauce, just like a good painting is made more effective by being varnished. Before we enter into the details of the composition of sauces, I am an.xious to point out that every sauce, whether plain or rich, must possess a distinct flavour and character. There are many plain sauces which are made cpiickly and of materials usually at hand. Let these be, as the name implies, simple and pure, so that they may merely taste of the materials employed, from which such sauces take their name. Richer sauces require a longer and slower process of preparation. Until the beginning of the nineteenth century, the art of sauce- making was hardly known in England. The charge made at that time against the English nation by a celebrated French epigram- matist, who said that we had many religions but only one sauce, would hardly hold good now, for it is reckoned that there are at least 650 different sauces and gravies known at this moment. An104 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ingenious cook will have as little trouble to form that number of sauces in different varieties as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his palette and colours ; nor is it too much to assert that there is no other branch of cookery which offers better opportunities to display the ability of a cook than this. The art of sauce-making consists of extracting and combining certain flavours which are incorporated with the liquids. For this the gift of a good palate is essential, and the experience and skill of the most accomplished cook, as well as a thorough knowledge of the taste of those for whom he or she is cooking. Difference between Sauces and Gravies.—As there are many people who do not know the difference between sauces and gravies, it is necessary to devote a few words to this subject, so as to make the point quite clear. A gravy is simply the juices of meat (roasted or braised meat) seasoned but without being thickened ; whilst a sauce may be defined, using the most general term, as a liquid seasoning containing some kind of liaison which is employed in the presentation of foocl. According to the standard dictionaries, a gravy may be called a sauce, although a sauce is not always a gravy. Many of the “ grande ” sauces contain gravies for their foundation, which are used in a concentrated form to enrich the flavour of such sauces. It is therefore more distinctive to call liquids pure and simple “ gravies,” and liquids thickened with flour or other ingredients “ sauces.” Liaisons—Thickenings or bindings. The various processes of thickening sauces, as well as soups, are called liaisons. There are six distinct methods known for thickening sauces. 1. Liaison with roux. 2. Liaison with eggs. 3. Liaison with butter and cream. 4. Liaison with butter and flour kneaded. 5. Liaison with blood. 6. Liaison with cornflour, arrowroot or fecule. Roux.—The most popular and most generally adopted thickening is effected by means of roux. It is therefore necessary to first give a few details to define the word “ roux ” in regard to its culinary meaning. Literally, the word means “ russet,” but in the culinary sense it is a mixture of flour and butter cooked or blended to certain degrees, to white, brown or fawn colours. The quantity of flour and butter employed is used in equal proportions. If made before- hand in large or small quantities, it should be kept in covered jars, when it will keep good for months. A tablespoonful is usually found sufficient to thicken a pint of liquid. Stock-roux must always be kept in jars, well covered, in a cool place, ready at hand. If the roux is used in a cold state ^stock-roux), it may be mixed105 SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION. with cold or hot stock, but as soon as mixed it must be stirred constantly over the hre till boiling ; or, if mixed hot, the liquid should be poured by degrees into the roux away from the hre, and then stirred over the hre till it boils. Special precaution must always be exercised, in making a sauce with a roux thickening, that the temperature be lowered, or in other words that the roux be allowed to cool a little before the liquid stock or gravy is added. This will prevent the sauce from getting lumpy, and will do much towards making a sauce perfectly smooth. All roux must be stirred constantly during the process of blending and cooking. White Roux {Roux Blanc).—This is a mixture of hour and butter cooked in a stewpan over a moderate hre, without allowing it to attain any colour ; it must be blended without browning. Bloiid or Fawn Roux {Roux Blond).—This is made by melting a certain quantity of butter, by stirring in the same or a less quantity of sifted hour, and by cooking it over a slow hre or in the oven until it has acquired a light blond or fawn colour. Brown Roux {Roux Brun).—This is the so-called stock-roux, which can be prepared in large quantities to be used cold as required. It is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing, with the exception that it is cooked until it becomes a darker colour, a chest- nut brown or russet brown. It is best to hnish the roux in a slack oven, for the slower the process the better the blending and the hner the aroma of the sauce will be. Roux Liaison.- -This liaison is made by pouring prepared strained stock slowly into the stewpan containing the roux, which, as before explained, must be allowed to cool a little. The mixture is then stirred over a slow fire until it boils, and allowed to simmer until it attains the desired consistency. With brown and blond sauces the roux employed is usually made up with a “ mirepoix ” to introduce the necessary flavourings. This item “mirepoix” is more fully explained on the following page. Egg Liaison.—This is a thickening composed of yolks of eggs beaten up and diluted with a small quantity of cream or cold white stock. Cream is more often used than stock. The sauce to which this liaison is added must be boiling. A ladleful of sauce is stirred into the egg mixture, then the whole is poured into the sauce, and stirred by the side of the fire for several minutes, without permitting it to boil. Every sauce or soup which is thickened with eggs should be passed through a tammy before it can be used. This liaison is used for blanquettes and fricassees as well as soups. Butter and Cream Liaison.—Butter and cream are incorporated in equal proportions into sauces and soups, just before they are wanted for serving. Stir vigorously without re-heating. The flavour of any sauce would be spoiled if butter or cream were added too soon, or if a sauce were again allowed to boil. The same mayio6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. be said of butter liaisons. By this process a quantity of cold fresh butter is added in small bits to sauces the moment they are taken off the fire, they are then stirred with a whisk and served without being re-heated. Kneaded Butter Liaisons.—To incorporate or knead as much flour into butter as it will absorb to form a soft paste, and to mix it in small portions into a hot, thin sauce, stirring it constantly until all the butter is melted, constitutes what is called a kneaded butter liaison. Blood Liaison.—This is mostly used with game and poultry entree sauces. It is made by reserving the blood of poultry or game, to which is added a little vinegar to prevent it from coagu- lating ; it is then strained through a line sieve, and stirred gradually into sauces a few minutes before serving. Arrowroot, Cornflour, etc.. Liaison.—Arrowroot, cornflour, potato- flour, fecule or other similar farinaceous preparations are frequently used for thickening sauces. Blend one or the other of these with a little milk, cold stock or water, pour it through a strainer into boiling liquid, stir continually until it boils, then simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes longer. Mirepoix.—Although the word “ mirepoix ” is a common term in culinary matters, it does not in the least imply or make clear what it constitutes. It is one of the many words which the gastro- nomic authorities ought to abolish, and substitute a more appro- priate term that conveys clearly the meaning of the composition. History tells us that Mirepoix was a duke whose wife, being a clever cook, became a favourite with Louis XV. I, however, fail to see what this has to do with this culinary adjunct used in the preparation of sauces and soups, braises and stews. To come to the point, let me explain that a mirepoix is nothing else than an essence or extract of meat and vegetables, one of the most useful preparations to impart flavour of exquisite richness to various kinds of sauces, soups, and other culinary preparations. To make a mirepoix properly, use the following ingredients ; I lb. bacon (or ham) cut into small pieces 1 carrot (slices) 2 bay-leaves A sprig of thyme 2 small onions (sliced) A clove of garlic 2 shallots Fry these carefully without actually browning, and the mirepoix is made. It will afterwards, according to requirements, be diluted and boiled up with wine—sherry, chablis, sauterne or claret— which will be added to stock or to sauce to simmer in it and to give it the desired flavour. Many chefs do not consider a mirepoix complete without a certain quantity of veal, lean meat, being added. This I maintain to be waste, as the stock employed should contain the necessary flavour of meat needed. The addition of bacon or ham has, on107 SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION. the other hand, quite a different effect as to its flavour, and I cannot speak too highly of it. Essences of Meat, etc.—Essences or extracts of meat, hsh, poultry, and game are largely employed in the various sauce preparations. These are concentrated liquids containing as much as possible of the flavours, which by certain processes are reduced to the consistency of half-glaze. To make an Essence.—The ingredients from which the essence takes its name are put in a stewpan with a quantity of rich stock, wine, vegetables, and herb flavouring. When sufficiently simmered the liquid is strained into another stewpan, and when thoroughly skimmed and freed from fat it is reduced to the consistency needed and put by for use when required. The following essences are those most frequently used in high- class kitchens : Ham essence. Truffle essence. Fish essence, Mushroom essence. Chicken essence. Rabbit essence. Pheasant essence, woodcock, snipe, partridge, and lark essence, etc. These essences are, of course, used to enrich certain sauces, so as to make their characteristic flavour more conspicuous. It is needless to add that the use of essences is only adopted for very rich sauces, etc. Fumet.—A fumet is very much the same preparation as an essence, but much richer, being reduced with sherry or madeira. Fumet, in other words, may be termed the flavour, for it is the condensed steam which rises from certain cooked and raw meats, game or poultry, whereby a concentrated flavour is obtained. For a fumet the raw ingredients required are usually sauted in the first instance, after which a bouquet of herbs, stock, and wine are added for reduction. Foundation Sauces.—All the great sauces, or sauces mire, as they are called in France, have either well-reduced stock or essences for their foundation. Espagnole, veloutee, allemande, and bechamel are the names of the four sauces known as Les grandes sauces, though the actual leading foundation sauces are a brown and a white sauce. Espagnole and Bechamel.—These are justly termed the Adam and Eve of all the other preparations, because from these an endless variety of sauces can be made. If we look into the above statement concerning the four grande sauces more closely, we find that espagnole is a brown sauce, whilst the other three are white sauces. This must strike the uninitiated as somewhat odd, because only one brown sauce is recognised, whereas in cookery a brown sauce is used at least three times as often as a white one. It is furthermore curious, or apparently so, that the brown sauce which the French cuisine recognises as the sance should be called Spanish (Espagnole). The white sauce has two varieties, the bechamel and allemandeio8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. for I can say with every confidence that the best French cooks or veluutee. It would, however, be much more distinctive to recognise but two kinds of sauces as foundation or grande sauces— viz. the Spanish and bechamel, which are unquestionably the two leading sauces in cookery, and as such is the case they deserve to be recognised. Sauce espagnole, versus Brown Sauce.—There are many people who imagine that espagnole sauce is nothing more than an ordinary brown sauce. The French practically owe much of their advance- ment in cookery to Spain, although they have excelled the Spanish cuisine by a long way. Spanish cookery was at one time the pioneer, when no doubt this sauce was introduced into France, and such being the case, it cannot be wondered at that the French cooks have stuck to the name of so important an item, which they have adopted as their chief brown sauce. The characteristic of this brown sauce is the flavour of ham which is blended into the sauce in such a skilful manner, making it superior to, and distinguishable from, an ordinary brown sauce. Much of the success of a brown sauce, as a fundamental sauce, depends upon the manner in which the flour is blended, or, to be more correct, roasted. The principle of roasting flour is practically the same in every instance, although there are a number of ways of introducing the roast flavour into a brown sauce. To illustrate my meaning, let us take the roasting of coffee as an example, which will give us some idea as to what happens in roasting flour for a sauce. We know that when coffee is properly roasted, its aromatic qualities are developed, whereby certain salts and volatile oils are blended, bringing out an excellent aroma, which by mere boiling of the berry could never be attained. The result obtained by roasting is not merely a change of colour and an access of fragrance, but also the development of qualities which affect the human frame—which exhilarate the nervous system. The process of roasting flour, and the subsequent result in sauces, are to a certain extent the same. To roast the flour to a nut-brown colour develops a fragrance of the most exquisite flavour, which will ultimately be incorporated into the sauce or sauces. Time required for Cooking.—In preparing this, as well as other sauces which require a process of long cooking, it should be remem- bered that a sauce must simmer long enough to clear, and have the fat separated and come to the surface, so that it can be skimmed off. The Introduction of Ham or Lean Bacon, the latter being more often used than ham, into the leading brown sauce is but one out of many other ways of incorporating a smoky or ham flavour, which makes the espagnole so characteristic, and there is no question as to whether this addition really improves the flavour or not,SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION. [09 put the ham, with due discretion, into practically every hrst-class brown meat sauce or brown meat soup. We do not, therefore, need any further conviction as to the usefulness of ham in brown sauces. It is well worth noting that though the addition of ham is excellent for brown preparations, the introduction of anything approaching the flavour of ham into white sauces has just the opposite effect, being entirely opposed to its character. This shows at once that the nature of white sauce is produced by blending and ebullition alone, so as to keep it quite free from any smoky flavour. This brings us back to the starting-point of this article, and before proceeding any further we must come to a clear understanding as to the actual difference of the brown and white fundamental sauces, into which all others are, so to speak, divided. Bechamel, White Sauces, Veloutee.—Sauces of this class need not always be white, for very often they are of a creamy, yellow or greenish tint ; but the white sauces, the foundation sauces proper, are the result of what has already been explained—viz. a blending of flour and butter, perfected by a certain amount of ebullition, which in the flrst stage becomes a white coulis, or a veloutee, which is subsec]uently enriched with cream, yolks of eggs, or butter, in order to give it the required distinctive character. Brown Sauces.—The brown sauce, on the other hand, has to go through a process of roasting in the flrst instance-—viz. the prepara- tion of the brown roux, which is roasting flour and butter, to impart the distinctive flavour. This, in addition to the boiling and sim- mering processes by which the various meats, vegetables, and other ingredients are prepared, produces a brown sauce. Ordinary or Plain Sauces.—It must be remembered that ordinary sauces, prepared on the quick system, should be allowed to boil at least ten minutes from the time the liquid is added. When a sauce is cooked less than ten minutes, the flour will not have had time to develop its full flavour for sauces, and the butter only partially separates, which gives to the sauce a greasy appearance. Overcooking of Sauces.—It sometimes happens that by some oversight or error a sauce is cooked so long that it becomes oily. In this case a little cold stock, cold milk or water should be added, and if the sauce is stirred until it begins to boil it will again become perfectly smooth, but it must not on any account be allowed to boil any longer. It must be removed from the fire immediately after it boils. Error in Overseasoning.—Many a plain sauce is spoilt by cooks who are too fond of using spicy flavourings. They seem to me to be unable to make a sauce without adding one or more dashes of bottled sauces, spices, etc., thinking that these additions must1 lO THE CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. (i) Chaud-froid. (2) Salad. (3) Sweet, necessarily be an improvement. This practice, I need hardly say, is a much mistaken one, for such additions often overpower the essential, natural flavour of their plain sauces, by overloading them with ingredients which are unpalatable. A plain sauce, as a rule, needs nothing in the way of seasoning, except salt and pepper, to bring out the flavour and to stimulate or awaken the palate. Those who wish for piquancy of flavour will always And means to satisfy their wants from the cruet. Characteristic of Sauces and Seasoning.—No matter what the character of a sauce may be, remember that in all compound sauces, whether plain or rich, the rule for seasoning and flavouring is the same in every case ; that is, the ingredients used for this purpose should be so proportioned that no flavour predominates over the other, so that by a careful and judicious combination of flavours the sauce or sauces prepared will not fail to be acceptable to the palate of the most refined gourmet. Cook’s Duty regarding Taste.—Furthermore, remember that it is a cook’s duty to study the likes and dislikes as to seasoning and flavouring of those for whom she or he works, whereby certain ingredients for every sauce must necessarily be increased or lessened according to taste. If this is done, no one need fail to become master of the art of sauce-making, so far as the extraction and combination of flavours in sauces are concerned. On the Reduction of Sauces.—We reduce or boil down sauces to give them the necessary strength. This is usually the case with the compounds into which stocks, essences, fumets, etc., have been incorporated : these are added for the express purpose of reduction, and should be in a concentrated form, so as to lessen as much as possible the labour of boiling or simmering. All sauces which need to be reduced mirst be strained and freed from fat ; they must be put on a quick fire at first, and mirst be stirred with a wooden spatula or spoon to prevent the sauce from adhering to the bottom of the saucepan in which the sauce is put. The necessary quantity of stock, etc., required for its improvement is next added ; it is then allowed to boil until it has acquired the desired consistency: when this is effected the sauce is passed through a tammy cloth. Various Kinds of Sauces.—Having explained the difference between white and brown sauces, and having given minute details of the various thickenings (liaisons), as well as other im- portant points concerning sauces and their preparation, I will now give a list of the various sauces most frequently used in cookery. There are two groups of sauces : I. Hot Sauces.—These are divided into three sections : (i) Plain. (2) Savoury. (3) Sweet. II. Cold Sauces.—These are divided into three sections :SAUCES AND rilEIR COMPOSITION. I. HOT SAUCES. [Examples. (i) Plain Sauces.—These include : Egg Onion (white Melted Butter Anchovy Brown White Sauce Parsley or brown) Mustard Caper Sauce Fennel Bread, etc. (2) Savoury Sauces.—(n) White Sauces : Bechamel Cardinal Ravigote Maitre d’Hotel Cream Mornay Shrimp Pluche Oyster Veloutee Provencale Bearnaise Mussel Dutch or Celery Chicken Poulette Hollandaise Echalotte Supreme Fines Herbes Fobster Allemande Cucumber Soubise Normande Horse-radish Mousseline, etc. (/;) Brown Sauces Espagnole Truffle Milanaise Genoise Bordelaise Pompadour Olive Fyonnaise Curry Turtle Reforme Tomato Chasseur Italienne Poivrade Bigaracle Matelotte Bretonne Salmis Perigord Mushroom Financiere Piquante Game Orange Robert Madere Estragon, etc. (3) Sweet Sauces : Apple Cherry Orange Gooseberry Apricot Peach German Sabayon Mousseline Vanilla Custard Chocolate, etc. 11. COLD SAUCES. [Examples. ) (1) Chand-froids : White Green Blonde Brown Horse-radish Ravigote Fines Herbes Mint (2) Salad Sauces : Mayonnaise Tartare Cardinal Ravigote Moutarde Pink Tomate Verte Red Fines Herbes Remoulade Cream Suedoise, etc. Mousseline Vinaigrette, etc. (3) Sweet Sauces : Cream Custard Vanilla Rum Caramel Apricot Note.—For Recipes of Sauces see Chapter XIII Sabayon Chocolate, etc.THE iV£I(' CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. chaptp:r XI. SEASONING AND FLAVOURING. The business of an intelligent cook is twofold : he or she must know how to please the eye, but above all the palate must be flattered as well, for “ where pleasures to the eye and palate meet, such work is done and the dishes are complete.” The best chefs de cuisine regard seasoning and flavouring ingre- dients as absolute necessities to carry out their object, because the success of their cooking depends largely upon their aid. But condiments for seasoning and flavouring must be used with skill, and above all sparingly. All palates do not crave for highly spiced foods, or for condi- ments, yet the majority of people demand that the food should be moderately seasoned with some kind of condiments, for the flavour of insipid food can be very much improved by the use of some suitable condiment. To flavour or season rightly is an accomplishment of no mean order. Consider how much food is spoilt through being over- seasoned, and how much of it is made insipid through lack of proper and sufficient seasoning. Almost everything we cook has a flavour of its own, the natural flavour, and to retain this becomes often a difficulty, because the great secret lies in bringing out the natural flavour, rather than imparting a new one. All those who have been initiated into the rudiments of cookery, as well as connoisseurs, must know that the success of any dish, whether plain or elaborate, depends to a very large extent upon its seasoning, and everyone who desires to master this art must care- fully study and observe all the rules pertaining to this important branch of cookery. Intelligence, carefulness, thought, sound judg- ment, a steady hand, and a keen perception of palate are qualifica- tions which every cook must possess in order to prepare food so as to make it appetising, pleasant to the taste, and in every way perfectly palatable. Well cooked and well seasoned food is admittedly more digestible than the unpalatable. An erroneous idea prevails that ” plain cookery ” requires no other flavouring or seasoning beyond salt, pepper, and, say, Worcester sauce or ketchup. It can easily be proved that there are a variety of inexpensive seasonings besides these which may with advantage be used for imparting a better flavour, whereby the monotony of plain dishes becomes considerably alleviated. It is most difficult to give any precise directions for seasoning ; experience alone will teach a cook. Tastes differ considerably.SEASONING AND FLAVOURING. 3 What may be agreeable to one may be objectionable or insipid to another. It is the cook’s business to study the taste of those he or she serves, and the seasoning of the food must therefore be used according to the requirements of those to whom the dishes are served. It is in all cases well to remember that seasonings, whatever they may consist of, should be used in small quantities only, as one can always add more if found necessary, but it is im- possible to remove any if too much has been added in the lirst instance. The late Monsieur Ude, one of the most talented chefs of the past, in his culinary work says that “ the best cookery in the world is worthless without seasoning.” We know that cookery acts upon food by diminishing the firm- ness of some articles, and by increasing it in others. We further know that the flavour is altered as well as the aroma and appearance, whilst seasoning and flavouring heighten the savouriness of food, the action of which is increased by the addition of aromatic, pungent, and stimulant ingredients. The so-called highly seasoned dishes must be regulated on a sliding scale as regards the seasoning employed, so as to adapt them to the various palates, which, as before stated, differ considerably. It is quite impossible to specify in any recipe the exact quantity of seasoning materials for each j dish. Not only palates but also stomachs differ as to the amount of salt and spices which suits them. For this reason, if for no other, it is always best to use all seasonings moderately. The object of seasoning, provided always it be added in moderate and reason- able quantities, is to increase the digestibility of food, to flavour food which would otherwise be insipid, and to render it at the same time more palatable and digestible. By seasoning certain food materials, we copy to a certain extent nature, who renders frrflt wholesome and agreeable to the taste by associating insipidness with acids, by combining certain forms of starch with sugar, as well as by the characteristic instinctive longing with which nature animates both man and animal for salt and for the flavour and piquancy of aromatic herbs and spices. While a fine and discriminating taste is natural to a few only, it may be cultivated in some degree by all. It is the fortune of the cook who possesses it ; if not, he or she may, through plenty of experience, accpiire it in some measure. The most important articles used for seasoning and flavouring are salt, sugar, pepper, spices, aromatic herbs, vinegar, vegetables, mustard, butter and other fats, oils, etc. The principal functions which these adjuncts have to perform is, as explained in the fore- going pevges, to render food more palatable, more appetising, and more digestible. Salt is the chief and most important seasoning used ; it is not merely a seasoning, but a necessary of life, for it removes the insipid H14 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. flavour from all eatables, such as meat, vegetables, etc. ; it acts as an appetiser, and promotes digestion. The average quantity of salt required by each person being, according to medical authority, from i to ^ an ounce per day, it becomes a necessary adjunct for the preservation of health. When added to food it excites the supply of two important agents in the processes of digestion and nutrition, viz. the gastric juice and the constituents of the bile. Salt, like all seasonings, must be used with judgment. When added to boiling water, it raises the boiling-point and liberates the oxygen. Salt acts further as a great preserving agent for meat, vegetables, and other substances. Spices, such as white and black pepper, cayenne, cloves, nutmeg, paprika (Hungarian pepper), coriander, cinnamon, mace, etc., cannot be considered to have any nutritive properties. They are used for the purpose of imparting certain flavours to improve the taste of various food substances. In adding the seasoning and flavouring to dishes, it is of the greatest importance for a cook to remember that the exquisite sensibility of a cook’s palate can best be judged and admired by his or her cooking. Allspice.—This well-known and useful spice is the berry of the Eugenia Pimenta, a small tree growing in the West Indies. The fruit is gathered when green and unripe, and put to dry in the sun, when it turns black. Large quantities of it are employed in the manufacture of the sauces sold in shops. The berries combine the flavour of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, hence the name allspice. It is also called Pimento or Jamaica pepper. Cloves.—Cloves belong to the order of myrtles. They are the unopened flower-buds of a plant called the CaryophylUis aromaticus, a native of the Moluccas. Owing to their resemblance to a nail they derive their name from the French word clou. They form a well-known spice, and are much used in cookery both in sweet and savoury dishes. To a stew or I'agoCit, etc., an onion stuck with cloves is almost indispensable. Nutmeg.—Used extensively for various seasonings, both sweet and savoury. It is the seed of the nutmeg- tree [Myristica moschata), a native of the Molucca Islands, but is now cultivated in Java, Cayenne, Sumatra, and some of the \Vest Indian Islands. The fruit is surrounded by a husk {arillus), which is known as mace. The nutmeg is pear-like in appear- ance, and is usually grated for culinary purposes. Nutmegs should never be used in large proportions for seasoning because they are supposed to contain nar(^otic properties. NUTMEGSEASONING AND FLAVOURING. Mace is the outer shell or husk of the nutmeg, and it resembles it in flavour. W’hen good it should be orange- yellow in colour. Used whole or powdered for both seasoning and flavouring. Curry is a condiment and a spice, but is, strictly speaking, a mixture of many others. Perhaps only an Indian can make it to perfection, many of its ingredients being native to the country, whose poorest peasantry look upon curry as a daily necessity. Mustard.—There are two varieties of mustard seeds, Sinapis nigra, the black, and Sinapis alba, the white. These are ground and mixed. The pungency of mustard is more fully developed when moistened with water. It is supposecl to give energy to the digestive organs, and to promote appetite if taken in small quantities. It is used as a table condiment, and for sauces, dressings, etc. Cinnamon.—This substance comes from the bark of a species of laurel, Laurus Cinnamonmm, and is about the oldest known spice in the world. The tree is chiefly cultivated in Ceylon, but cinnamon also comes from Madras, Java, and Bombay. The three-year-old branches are stripped of the outer bark, the inner is loosened and dried, which makes it shrivel up, and assume the quill form in which it is imported. The best cinnamon should not be too dark in colour, and should be hardly thicker than paper. It has a fragrant odour, and its taste is pleasant and highly aromatic. Besides being used extensively for culinary purposes, cinna- mon is much employed medicinally as a powerful stimulant. Turmeric.—Turmeric [Curcuma longa) belongs to the ginger family, and is extensively cultivated in the East Indies as a condiment. The tubers are dried and then ground to a fine powder. It enters largely into the composition of crnuy powder, and gives it the peculiar odour and the bright yellow colour which that compound possesses. Coriander.—This is the fruit or so-called seeds of a plant of Eastern origin [Coriandrum sativum). Coriander seeds are used by the confectioner and distiller, and in the manufacture of curry powder. The leaves have also been used in soups and salads. They are also used for flavour- ing jellies, etc. Aromatic Spice is a mixture of various flavours, con- sisting of pepper, salt, cinnamon, mace, powdered bay- leaf, thyme, marjoram, nutmeg, and cayenne. These are used principally for braised meats, sautes, ragorits, galantines, vol- au-vents, game pies, and numerous other preparations. CORIANDER II5 turmericii6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pepper.—Pepper is produced from the seed or berries of the plant or shrub known by the name of Piper nigrum, which grows in Malabar and various parts of India. The berry has a dark brown or black cuticle. Black pepper consists of the dried berries ground whole, whilst white pepper is produced from the same berries, after their dark husks have been removed, and ground finely. White pepper is milder than black pepper. Pepper was known to the ancient Greeks, and so highly was it thought of, that when Alaric besieged Rome in 408 A.D., he included in the ransom 3,000 pounds of pepper. As a condiment, pepper is valuable in heightening the flavour and giving piquancy to savoury dishes, and it behoves a cook to know just what pepper should be used for each dish, for by the use or abuse of this sort of seasoning it is quite possible to make or mar the happiness of a diner. Long Pepper [Piper longum) is a spice similar in taste and smell to the ordinary j>epper in common use. It is not so pungent; it is mostly used in making curry powder and in pickles. The plant on which it grows is a native of East India. Mignonette Pepper.—This is ordinary white pepper with the husks removed, and crushed finely but not ground. Cayenne Pepper consists of a species of the dried fruit of capsicums, which is red in colour and grows prin- cipally in Cayenne. The pods are also imported under the name chillies. It has a powerful pungent flavour, and is very useful for flavouring purposes. It also enters into the composition of curry powder. The plant has been acclimatised in Europe, and its pods are used for pickling, and sometimes for flavouring sauces and stews. Krona Pepper is a bright red pepper made from the Hungarian paprika, capsicum pod, etc. It is much milder than cayenne, and not in the least pungent. It forms one of the most palatable seasonings for the cuisine and table. A Pinch of Salt or Pepper.—This expression is much used in cookery : it is therefore necessary, in order to convey a notion of the accurate quantities of a pinch, to state that a pinch of salt or pepper should be | of an ounce, and a small pinch (mostly applied to cayenne) xV of an ounce in weight. It would, however, be difficult and impracticable to make use of the scales every time a pinch of salt or pepper is required. The best plan is to ascertain the capacity of one’s fingers by weighing the quantity they hold, and then getting accustomed to the exact quantity required for seasoning. In the matter of spices, as well as of herbs and soup vegetables, it is best to avoid continually referring to the scales, to accustom GARLIC black PEPPERSEASONING AND FLAVOURING. 17 oneself as much as possible to be able to tell by sight the weight of the needful quantity of ingredients required. Aromatic Herbs and Plants.—The following are the names of herbs and plants mostly used in the kitchen : Parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, marjoram, sage, tarragon, chervil, chives, onions, shallots, garlic, etc. A number of these are used in a dry state, but either dry or fresh they are used in a large variety of preparations. The Bouquet Garni is the mainstay of the French cuisine, mnd well it may be ; it is more delicate and subtle than spices or dried condiments are apt to be. Usually the bouquet gami is composed of sprigs of chervil, chives, thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, and parsley. Parsley possesses a wonderful property of absorbing or masking the taste of stronger flavouring ingredients, so much so that an overdose of this herb is likely to overpower the more delicate aromas of seasonings. There is no herb which plays such an important part in cookery as parsley. Not only does it give the finishing touch to many sauces and stews, but it is the favourite for garnishing dishes. The curled leaf parsley is the best and most often used both for flavour and appearance. Parsley is said to be a native of Sardinia, but is largely cultivated in every country in Europe. Powdered parsley is excellent for a number of dishes for imparting a most delicate flavour. The process is simple. Steep some fresh parsley in boiling water for a few seconds ; then drain and put it in a hot oven for a few minutes to dry. Put through a sieve and use as required. Tarragon and Chervil.—Tarragon belongs to the same family as wormwood, and is called by botanists Artemisia Dracunculus. It is supposed to be a native of Siberia. The leaves of chervil possess a peculiar flavour, which is much appreciated by many. Of all the pot-herbs, these two are the most odoriferous, and are much used in French cookery in entrees and sauces, and sometimes soups. In salads, salad sauces, chaud-froid, etc., they also form an important part. Tarragon-leaves are also used for flavouring vinegar, which is very largely used in all kitchens and dining-rooms. Thyme.—Thyme belongs to the same family as mint, the Labiates. The leaves of this plant (Thymus vulgaris) are used fresh or dry for stuffing, soups, etc. It possesses a highly aromatic flavour, and should be used sparingly. The lemon thyme (Thymus citriodorus) is a smaller kind, and has a strong perfume like the rind of lemons, which is very agreeable. Burnet.—The use of this perennial plant has gone somewhat out of fashion. In former times it made one of the principal ingre- dients in claret cup, its leaves, when slightly bruised, smelling like cucumber. Its modern use is confined to salads, and combined with tarragon, chives, and chervil, burnet forms the French “ ravigote.” Although called pimprencllc in French, it must not be confused with the English pimpernel, which is poisonous,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Capsicums.—Of these there are several kinds which are cultivated in the East and West Indies and in America. They yield a fruit which is pungent and stimulating, and in Mexico the pods are called chillies ; these are used to make a hot pickle and chilli vinegar. It is the powder of the seeds and pods dried that constitutes cayenne pepper. Capsicums owe their power to an active principle called capsicin, and are considered to be very wholesome. Savory.—Of this flavouring herb there are two varieties, the summer savory {Satureja hortensis) and the winter savory {Satuyeja montana). It was introduced into England in the seven- teenth century. Both varieties are extensively used for flavouring and seasoning purposes. Marjoram.—There are four kinds of marjoram, but the sweet or knotted marjoram {Origanum Major ana), a native of Portugal, and introduced into this country in the sixteenth century, is the kind generally used in our kitchens. It imparts a delicious flavour to soups, sauces, stews, etc. In July the leaves are dried and kept for winter use. Mint.—Mint belongs to a family of plants called Lahiatce. The spearmint [Mentha viridis) cultivated in our gardens has the most agreeable flavour of the various kinds of mint, and is the one most generally used in cookery. It possesses the property of correcting flatulency, hence the custom of using it in pea-soup and with new potatoes, etc. Bay-leaves.—The leaves of the common laurel [Pruniis Lauro- ccrasus) are employed for culinary purposes to give a kernel-like flavour to stocks, mirepoix, sauces, custards, puddings, blanch- manges, and the milk and water with which cakes are mixed. They are generally dried for iise. Basil.—This is a favourite herb with the Erench cooks ; it has a scent very like that of cloves. Basil for winter use can be obtained in bottles, and it is the best herb for clear mock-turtle and other clear soups made of shell-fish. It is also used for flavouring vinegar. The middle of August is the best time for making basil vinegar. Onions.—The name onion is given to all plants of the onion tribe, in which we include leek, garlic, and shallot (echalote). The onion is, undoubtedly, next to salt, the most valuable of all flavour- ing substances used in cookery. Mflien onions, shallots, or garlic are used, they should always be well blended with other flavours, so that the peculiar and often objectionable taste of these cannot be detected. The smell of the onion, however, is objectionable to many, whilst others will have it that the flavour of onion disagrees with them. The question, therefore, arises. How can this be overcome ? The answer is very simple. By thorough cooking and manipulation the presence of onion in a stew, soup or sauce may be disguised, retaining at the same time the essential essence of this valuable flavouring root. By cunningly concealing the flavour with others CAPSICUM19 SEASONING AND FLAVOURING. in a sauce, stew or soup, it will yield enjoyment even to those who would carefully avoid it if they knew it was there. Whenever onion is used as a condiment or seasoning, and the article is properly treated as a flavouring substance should be, much of the objection of an unpleasant smell is removed. Too much attention cannot be bestowed upon its preparation. Garlic.—This is one of the alliaceous plants. It consists of a group of several bulbs called cloves, all enclosed in one membranous skin. When used judiciously and sparingly, garlic is a most excellent condiment ; but with the English taste it seldom finds favour, although many without knowing it partake of dishes where it is cunningly concealed. Rubbing the dish once with a clove of garlic cut in half imparts quite sufficient flavour ; but in Italy and other countries it is used on a larger scale— in fact, it enters into the composition of nearly every dish. Garlic is considered to be very wholesome, and to act as a slight stimulant and tonic. j Shallot.—This bulbous root resembles garlic, and belongs to the same genus. It is a native of Palestine, and was introduced into England by the Crusaders. The place in Palestine where it was first found was Ascalon : hence its botanical name. Allium ascaloniciim. The shallot is extremely useful in cookery, especially for flavouring sauces, vinegar, etc. It is more pungent than garlic, but of more delicate flavour, and consequently more popular than the former. Carrots and Turnips.—Next to the onion, the carrot and turnip are considered the most important flavouring vegetables for soups and sauces. Carrots were known in the time of Elizabeth, and in the reign of James I. they were looked upon as most uncommon and as a luxury, so much so that ladies wore them as a decoration in place of feathers upon their hats and sleeves. Besides their use for flavouring, carrots and turnips are largely used for garnishing certain dishes, such as ragouts, boiled meats, etc. They are also served as vegetables by themselves, also as purees for soups, etc. It will thus be seen that the humble onion, carrot, and turnip are most important in the preparation of many dishes ; and in addition to these there is the bouquet garni, the parsley root, so-called pot-herbs, and numerous others, each of which has its special value, the character- istic of which every cook should be fully acquainted with. But, let me repeat, strongly flavoured herbs, as well as so-called pot or soup vegetables, should always be used with moderation and judgment. Vinegar.—Vinegar is derived from a variety of sources. The best vinegar is the Erench vinaigre d’Orleans. It is made from white wine ; but common vinegar is mostly prepared from malt in this country. The uses to which vinegar is applied in cookery are very numerous ; itTforms the foundation of many sauces, and if taken with food in small quantity it is said to assist digestion. If taken, however, in excess, it is highly injurious. Owing to its anti- CHILLIES20 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. septic and agreeable flavour, it is largely used for preserving vegetable substances known under the name of “ pickles.” It also has the faculty of softening the fibres of meat and making them tender. Sugar is largely used for fruits of all kinds, and farinaceous foods ; besides seasoning tasteless things, sugar also affords con- siderable nutriment. The value of sugar as a condiment is not always sufficiently realised. It renders watery and insipid vege- tables more digestible, and in unsuspected quantities it softens and heightens the flavour of sauces and ragouts. If mingled with otherwise insipid food articles, it stimulates the stomach to a slight degree, and hastens the action of the digestive organs. Sugar is also^ found useful in rendering watery vegetables, such as peas, cucumbers, pumpkins, spinach, cooked endive, etc., more digestible, and in the same manner assists digestion of starchy matters which are used for soups, sauces, gruel, etc. Lemons.—Lemons play an important part in cookery. The rind, juice, and essential oil all contain valuable properties. The rind or peel is used for flavouring a variety of dishes. As a rule the rind is grated, but the best way to obtain the largest amount of the essence from the lemon is to pare the rind with a very sharp knife as thinly as possible, without encroaching on the white part of the rind, thus cutting right through the many cells containing the essence. Some cooks obtain the zest by rubbing the lemon with lumps of sugar. It is from the rind that the essential oil of lemon is obtained, which is a more reliable substitute than fresh lemon-peel. The rind preserved with sugar forms the well-known candied peel. Vanilla.—Vanilla was first discovered by the Spaniards. It is the fruit of a parasitical plant—an orchid—and the best is found in Mexico. It has a delicious fragrance, and is now largely used for flavouring puddings, cakes, custards, liqueurs, chocolate, etc. For flavouring purposes it is better to use the vanilla pods or vanilla sugar than the essence of vanilla, the odour of which quickly escapes. Ginger.—Ginger is the tuber of a perennial plant called Zingiber Q-fficinalc, growing chiefly in the West Indies. It is the most gener- ally used of all spices, and is very agreeable and wholesome. There are two kinds of ginger—the white and the black. The former is considered the best, and is prepared by washing and scalding the tubers, and then scraping them and drying them in the sun ; in the black ginger the scraping process is omitted, it being merely scalded before being dried. Ginger is much used in culinary operations, especially by confectioners, and it also finds its way into sauces, beer, spiced wines, and other beverages. Angelica.—Although the seeds of this plant are largely used in the preparation of certain liqueurs, it is chiefly in its candied form that this aromatic herb or plant is known to us. The tender stems of the leaves are boiled in syrup, and when dried are very useful for dessert and confectionery purposes. The root as well as the leaves and seeds have been employed for medicinal purposes. In the northern parts of Europe the leaf-stalks are peeled and eaten raw,ELEMENTARY METHODS. 1^3 parsley, wash well in cold water, drain, fold in a doth, and press gently to extract all the water ; then put in a wire frying-basket, have some fat quite hot, fry the parsley for about two minutes (long enough to stiffen), then drain on a cloth, and use as required. Chopped Parsley {Persil hache).—Wash some parsley, trim off some of the stalks if coarse, chop as finely as possible, place it in the corner of a clean cloth, fold the end of the cloth, and hold tightly under the water-tap or rinse in a basin of cold water, squeeze out all the water, and put the parsley on a plate till wanted. To Chop an Onion.—Peel the onion, cut it in two lengthways, leaving the stalk ends. Commence to slice each half without detaching the slices from the stalk. Keep firmly together, and cut through several times crossways ; then cut down horizontally into fine squares, until you come to the stalk. This is the quickest way to mince an onion, but it requires practice. The other way is to peel and chop in the ordinary manner. When fine enough, wash in cold water, drain on a cloth, and use as required. To Chop Mushrooms.—If freshly-gathered mushrooms are used, peel off the skins, trim the stalks, and wash in cold water ; then chop as required, and use immediately. Preserved mushrooms are well drained, and then chopped as required, Liaisons in general.—There are a number of processes of thicken- ing soups and sauces, and these are called " liaisons,” in a culinary sense. Liaison may be composed of flour (fecule, arrowroot, cornflour, creme-de-riz, etc.), diluted in either milk, cream, stock or water, according to the nature of the soup or sauce for which it is required. A liaison should always be strained before it is mixed with the liquid which requires thickening, and the preparation be well stirred whilst the latter is added. The liaison of egg is frequently used for white purees, blanquettes, fricassees, and white sauces. Only the yolks of eggs should be used, mixed with a small quantity of cream, and well beaten. Such liaison should only be added to the preparation for which it is required when it is thoroughly cooked ; part of the soup or sauce is poured on to the liaison, stirred, and then all mixed well together. When once the liaison of egg is added, the preparation must on no account be allowed to boil, but only just get thoroughly heated, so as to form the liaison, thus preventing the eggs from curdling. Panade, for Forcemeat, etc.—Put half a pint of water and an ounce of butter into a stewpan, add a pinch of salt, stir in gradually when boiling four ounces of sifted flour ; work vigorously with a wooden spoon or spatula over the fire for a few minutes. The panade is done when it leaves the sides and bottom of the stewpan perfectly clean. Spread it on a dish or plate, and use when cold.24 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Another way is to soak in tepid water or milk some white bread (without crust) for an hour, put it in a cloth to squeeze out the moisture, turn into a stewpan with an ounce of butter to six ounces of bread ; heat up over a slow fire, stirring all the while, add a pinch of salt, turn on to a plate, and use when cool. Roux.—Roux is the French term for a preparation used as a thickening for gravies, sauces or soups. It consists of flour fried in butter to a desired colour or blend. There are three kinds—the white, the blond or fawn, and the brown. The white roux is made with, say, five ounces of butter and four ounces of flour. Melt the butter, sift the flour, and stir into the butter. Cook slowly on the side of the stove for about ten minutes, without allowing it to take colour. Blond roux is made in the same way, but is stirred over a slow fire until it becomes of a fawn or blond colour. White and blond roux are used for veloutee and allemande sauces, the former for bechamel and other white sauces. For a brown roux, leave it on the fire, or put in a moderately heated oven, until it attains a light brown or chestnut colour. Roux shoifld at all times be allowed to cool a few minutes before the moistening is added. It need not be used immediately, for it will keep some time if put in a covered jar and kept in a dry place. The proportion of moisture used is one quart of liquid to four ounces of flour. A Mirepoix.—A mirepoix is the foundation for flavouring sauces, braised meats, and a number of thick soups. Its composition consists of the following ingredients, which must be varied according to the quantity required : 2 carrots weighing about 5 oz. eacli, 2 onions weighing about 4 oz. each, I oz. of parsley or parsley root, 2 bay-leaves, i blade of mace, i or 2 shallots,, t sprig of thyme, 12 peppercorns, 2 cloves, lb. of raw fat ham or fat bacon, J lb. beef or veal trimmings (the latter may be left out), J oz. mignonette pepper. Method.—Prepare the vegetables, cut the bacon, etc., into small pieces ; fry in a stewpan a light brown colour. Add the vegetables cut in slices ; stir over the fire until light brown, then add the herbs, etc. If required for sauce or brown purees, add the needful quantity of roux, and moisten with about two quarts of stock and half a pint of white wine. Stir and cook gently for one hour or longer. Salpicon.—A salpicon is a mince of either chicken, game, foie- gras or veal, with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truffles. The whole is cut into small dice and put into some prepared sauce—allemande, bechamel, or brown sauce. Salpicon is mostly- used for filling bouchees (small puff-paste patties), when it is heated up in the sauce. Oysters and lobsters, shrimps, and fillets of sole are frequently ' used for bouchees, in which case the filling is prepared as above, and is known under the general n.ame of Salpicon, ham or tongue being of course omitted.125 ELEMENTARY METHODS. Hints on Cooking Meats. Cutting.—When cutting meat for cooking, always cut across the grain of the muscle. Cleaning.—Meat for roasting or braising should never be washed. Wipe it with a damp cloth or scrape it, if it requires cleaning or drying. Seasoning.—As a general rule, meat should be seasoned with salt and pepper just before it is taken up. Keeping on Ice.—Never place meat or fish directly on the ice ; put it on a dish or plate on the ice, which should be covered with a clean cloth. Boiling.—The art of boiling meat is to put it on in boiling water, with enough water to just cover it (see page 76). Salt meat should be put on in warm water, not boiling, as this helps to extract some of the salt. When the water boils draw it to the side of the stove, and let it simmer until done. Time for Boiling.—Fifteen to twenty minutes should be allowed to each pound of fresh meat, according to the kind and size of joint. The time is reckoned from the moment it begins to boil, and not when put into the pan. Salt meat requires longer to boil than fresh meat. To Warm up Cold Meat.—In re-heating meats for hash, mince, etc., it is very necessary that it should simmer in the sauce or gravy for at least three-quarters of an hour. The slices should not be cut too thin. In simmering the meat it will be found that during the first twenty minutes the fibre becomes somewhat horny and tough, and it will require at least another twenty-five minutes longer to soften the meat and to develop a more palatable flavour. It is quite a mistake to warm up meat in a hurry, for by so doing you will only render it tough and tasteless. Re-dressing viands which have previously appeared on the table is an art in itself, the chief point being to make such dishes tempting in appearance, agreeable to the palate, tender and tasty. To Truss Poultry for Roasting. Turkey.—Break the legs near the toes, fasten on to a hook, and pull off so as to draw the sinews from the legs. Put the bird on to a board, breast downwards, head toward you. Take hold of the head with your left hand, and cut a slit in the back of the neck with your right hand ; then loosen the skin round the neck, cut off the neck close to the body, also the skin, leaving it about two inches long, so as to fold it over the back. Remove the crop carefully ; put the forefinger in the throat end, and loosen the inside round the carcase. Make an incision at the vent just large enough to put in your fingers, loosen the inside, taking care not to break the gall-bag, then draw out the whole of the inside. Break the breast-bone if necessary, and flatten it ; turn the bird on its back, press the legs downwards, and fasten them with a skewer. Fold over the skin of the neck and twist in the wings ; fasten with string by means of a trussing-needle, so as toTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 126 make the bird neat in appearance ; tie the knots at the side. Stuffing may be inserted at the neck or in the body of the bird before being skewered or tied. In place of string a skewer can be used to fasten the wings the same as the legs. Chickens and Pigeons.—Proceed in the same manner as for a turkey. The sinews need not be pulled out; the feet should only have the tips of the toes cut off. Cut off the neck close to the body ; cut the skin off the neck so as to leave sufficient to cover over the back. Fold in or twist the wings (pinions) so that the ends are brought across the back of the bird, press down the legs and fasten with string, which, as for turkeys, should be run through the joints of the thighs. For Boiling.—Fowls for boiling are treated the same as for roasting, with the exception that the legs are cut off at the first joint. This done, loosen the skin round the legs until it can be pulled over the legs and the latter can be pushed inside the body, after which make a slit in CAPON-FOWL, TRUSSED AND BARDED. thc slvin sufficieiitly largc to pass the tail of the fowl through it. This is done to give it a better appearance. Ducks and Geese are trussed in the same way as a turkey,- but the first joints of the wings (pinions) are cut off. The feet of ducks should only have the tips of the toes cut off. Stuffing is inserted FOWL, TRUSSED FOR BOILING. CHICKEN, TRUSSED FOR ROASTING. either in the neck or in the body. In trussing always turn the bird’s back upon the body, keeping the legs firmly to -the sides, pull the skin over the tail, slit the skin and pass the tail through it the same way as for boiled fowl. To Pick or Pluck Birds.—Hold the bird you wish to pluck with your left hand on your lap ; pull off the feathers, commencing at the top of the breast. When picked all over, singe it over a flame of gas or methylated spirit to burn off any small feathers, hairs or down. There is another way of plucking birds, but it requires practice, else it is apt to spoil the appearance. Plunge the bird into very hot, but not boiling, water for about a minute, then commence to pullELEMENT A R Y METHODS. 127 off the feathers. If left too long in the water the skin becomes tender, and is likely to become detached in picking. [ Boning Poultry or Game.—To bone poultry or game properly, they must hrst be picked and lightly singed. Next cut or pull off the legs, a portion of the neck and the pinions, keeping the skin of the neck as long as possible. Carefully remove the crop. Now commence to free the flesh from the carcase, beginning at the neck portion. A small sharp knife should be used for this purpose. Continue to strip off the flesh thus until the carcase is quite detached from the flesh. ATen you arrive at the thighs, dislocate the first joints, and remove the bones, separate also the stumps from the wings. The nerves which are found in the thighs should be pulled out when the legs are cut off. Boned poultry or game is usually stuffed, and braised or boiled. It is best not to draw the birds until after the flesh is removed. The bones, etc., should be utilised for stock essence or “ fumet,” for sauces, etc. Table showing the Average Time required for Baking Meat or Birds.—The exact time required for all joints depends necessarily on a variety of circumstances, the kind of fire employed, size and thickness of a joint, the time of year, etc., by which the cook must be guided, and use his or her judgment. Requires about Beef.—A joint of beef weighing 20 lb. • 4t ,, 10 ,, 2-4 ,, ,, 6 . ■ i| Midton.—A joint of mutton weighing 10 lb. 5 2.4 )) )) 4 >’ ■ • 4 Lamb.—A small leg li Veal.—A joint of veal weighing 10 lb. • 3 l4 5 • Pork.—A joint of pork weighing 8 lb. 3 6 . 2 Venison.—A joint of venison weighing 10 lb. 24 „ 6 ,, if A haunch of venison 4 Turkey or Goose.—A large-sized turkey . -T A medium-sized turkey or goose . . i4 A small turkey or turkey poult . . If Capon Fowl.—A poularde or capon . ■ A large fowl I A medium-sized fowl A gosling I Hare.—A hare • li • A leveret I A rabbit s 4THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 28 Pheasant.—A large pheasant A small pheasant A pigeon .... A partridge .... Game.—Black game A woodcock A grouse .... A quail A golden plover . A snipe A fig-pecker.... A teal Ortolans .... Larks . . . . . Requires about f hour. 30 minutes. 20 I hour. 1 25 25 25 20 20 15 15 minutes. Brown meats, such as beef and mutton, whether served as roast or removes, should rather be under than over done. Veal, pork, lamb, and poultry, pheasants and partridges require to be well done, and venison should be underdone. The secret of cooking game perfectly is constant basting. It should be rather under than over done. Just a tint of red in the middle and full of gravy. Fat for Buttering Moulds, etc.—Chop rather finely a pound of kidney suet, freed from skin, put it into a saucepan with about a gill of cold water and cook over a slow fire until quite cl-arified ; stir occasionally to prevent burning. Strain, and add one pound of fresh butter to the clarified fat. Stir over the fire till the substance has become quite clear. Fat thus prepared will be found far more satisfactory and more serviceable than melted butter, which is generally fised for the purpose of greasing or buttering moulds. To Unmould.—Have a basin of lukewarm water (about 115° to 120° Fahr.), dip in the mould quickly for a second or two ; remove it quickly, hold securely, give it a brisk shake, and turn on to a cold dish. Remove the mould as soon as the contents become detached. Hints on Boiling Vegetables.—All green vegetables should be put on the fire into fast-boiling, slightly salted water, so that they may be brought quickly to the boiling point again. They should never be left to steep too long in cold water before boiling, as this will tend to toughen them, and in many cases destroys colour and flavour. Green vegetables, such as greens, cabbage, broccoli, savoys, green artichokes, French beans, peas, etc., also cauliflowers and asparagus, must be boiled in water containing a small piece of soda (about the size of a small filbert) in addition to the salt.' This re- tains the natural colour, extracts some of the strong flavour, and in the case of the greens, etc., the addition of soda is said to rnake these vegetables more digestible. Soda may be substituted by brown sugar. As soon as cooked strain quickly, for as soon as they are sufii-129 ELEMENTARY METHODS. ciently cooked they begin to absorb water. Keep the vegetables hot in a dish over hot water till required for serving. Overdone or underdone vegetables are injurious to health. To Blanch Vegetables.—Vegetables are usually blanched in order to extract some of their bitter flavour or to soften them. Parsley, tarragon, chervil, onions, shallots, etc., are best blanched by plunging them several times into boiling water. All vegetables, etc., required to be blanched are put on the hre in cold water, and must be brought quickly to the boil, and then be drained and cooled in cold water. How to Tammy Purees and Sauces.—Meat and vegetable purees, bisques, as well as creams and sauces, are frequently strained through a tammy cloth, so as to render them as smooth or creamlike as possible. To effect this process two persons are needed, who take hold of the tammy cloth on both ends ; the liquid or puree to be passed is then poured in the cloth, each holds a wooden spoon with the right hand and the end of the cloth with the left hand, and both spoons are pressed backwards and forwards, in regular motion, till the bulk of the liquid has passed through. To Blanch Rice, etc.—Rice, macaroni, etc., should always be blanched before it is cooked. Rice should be picked and washed in several waters. It is put on the fire with plenty of cold water to well cover. It must be brought quickly to the boil and then put into a sieve to drain, allowing cold water to run over so as to cool it. To Clarify Fat. —Cut the fat (beef or sheep’s kidney suet is best for frying purposes) into pieces about half an inch in size ; remove any coarse skin, etc., which may be on the fat, put the pieces in an iron stewpan, add about one gill of cold water to every pound of fat, cook over a slow fire, stir from time to time to prevent it from burn- ing : when*sufficiently cooked, which will be seen when it ceases to froth and the liquid is quite clear, move it to the corner of the stove to cool a little, then strain through a sieve. Frying in Fat or Oil.—Successful frying depends upon the fat being perfectly hot, the use of clean utensils, the heat being properly maintained, and, above all, plenty of clean and good fat. Anything that is fried should be served directly it is taken from_the fire and well drained. Fried dishes should never be covered over, for that renders them soft or else tough. To Clarify Butter.—Put the butter in a stewpan or sautepan, let it dissolve and cook slowly, then skim off the scum and all impurities. The butter is read^/ for straining as soon as a blue smoke appears. Strain through a fine hair sieve or pointed strainer into a basin, let it stand to settle, then pour gently into another basin so as to keep out the sediment. Liquid Caramel.—Put a pound of loaf, castor, or moist sugar into a copper stewpan or sugar-boiler. Add about half a gill of water, and let it dissolve ; stir over a slow fire and cook until a dark brown colour ; when a whitish smoke appears it is a sign that the sugar is ITHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 130 clone. Remove it from the lire, pour on about a pint of boiling water, allow this to boil up whilst stirring, and cook till it has the appear- ance of a syrup ; when cool put it in a corked bottle and use as required. Caramel should be used with discretion. Good cooks rarely use it, for it is apt to impart a bitter taste if used too freely. It is principally used for colomdng clear soi;ps, gravies, and sauces, and sometimes jellies. Saumure (Brine) Pickle for Beef or Pork. 2 gallons water (soft), 6 lb. coarse salt, f lb. brown sugar, oz. saltpetre. Put all the above in a stewpan, let it come to the boil, skim, and boil for about twenty minutes ; pour into a covered pan or tub and use when cold. Meat should lie in a pickle from eight to ten or more days, according to the size. In'pickling tongues a separate pan should be used ; these usually take from three to four weeks to pickle. Dry Pickling. i|- lb. salt, I oz. saltpetre, lb. allspice, i lb. brown sugar. First rub in sugar and let meat lie for a few hours, then rub in the saltpetre and spice, also the salt, a little at a time. Turn and knead meat well, let it lie in a cool place from ten to twelve weeks, turning it daily. The above quantity is for about 14 lb. of meat. Marinade.—Marinade is the name applied to a kind of prepara- tion which is used for pickling fish or meat. It is more frequently used for meat than fish. This process introduces a savoury aroma, and develops the flavour of meats, etc., which are usually allowed to lie in pickle from two to three days. A marinade will keep good for several months if boiled up, say, every four days. A small quantity added to brown sauce will be found a decided improvement where piquancy is required. Marinade Pickle. 1 quart vinegar, 3 clove.s,'i onion sliced, i carrot, J lemon, p orange, sliced, 12 juniper berries, a few coriander seeds, 2 sprigs of thyme and tarragon, 2 sprigs of marjoram, i of sage, 20 peppercorns and 2 blades mace, 4 P'^t claret, 2 bay-leaves. Boil the vinegar and claret and pour over the ingredients. It is advisable to season the meat with a little salt before it is put in the marinade. To Whip Cream.—Pour the cream into a clean, cool basin ; whip (at first gently) until light and frothy. When required for sweet dishes, mix lightly a little plain castor or vanilla-flavoured sugar. When whipped sufflciently, put the cream on to a hair sieve, and stand in a cool place, or on the ice, until required. Always whip cream and whites of eggs in a cool place, or on the ice in warm weather. Use an ordinary wire whisk, but make sure it is perfectly clean and dry before using it. To Whisk Whites of Eggs.—In separating the whites from the yolks of eggs, the greatest care must be taken not to let the leastELEMENTA R Y METHODS. 131 portion of the yolks get into the whites, otherwise it will become impossible to whisk the whites hrm. Put the whites of eggs in an egg bowl or shallow basin, first making sure that it is perfectly clean, dry, and cool. Keep the whites of eggs in a cool place until wanted. Add a pinch of salt and commence whisking with an ordinary wire whisk, which must be thoroughly clean and perfectly dry. Continue to whisk, increasing the pace, until it forms a hrm and substantial mossy froth. To Peel Almonds and Pistachios.—Pour sufficient boiling water over the almonds or pistachios to well cover them ; let them soak for several minutes, then strain and put in a basin of cold water to cool. Drain and spread them on a cloth. To remove the skin press each between the thumb and hngers. This done, put them on a sieve to dry. To Pound Almonds.—Allow the peeled almonds to dry tho- roughly in a slack oven for about ten minutes. Clean and clry the mortar ; put in the almonds and pound with the pestle ; stir well and continually for about ten minutes, else they are apt to get oily. When pounded put them on a cold dish and use as required. Egging and Crumbing.—To crumb successfully, use the fol- lowing : I egg well beaten, i teaspoonful of sweet oil, i dessert- spoonful of milk, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper (a little chopped parsley is sometimes added). Dip the article required to be crumbed in this mixture, or brush over well and cover with soft or dry breadcrumbs. Soft or fresh crumbs are made by rubbing the soft portion of stale bread through a wire sieve. The crusts of bread are placed in a baking sheet in a cool oven, and baked to a bright golden colour. They are then crushed with a rolling-pin or pounded in a mortar and passed through a sieve. These are called dry crumbs or raspings, and are sometimes used in place of fresh crumbs. To Strain Consomme or Jelly.—Scald a clean but not too hne cloth, put it over the soup stand (see illustration on p. 140), and place on the hoop or ring, or turn a chair reverse side up, and tie the four corners of the cloth on to the legs of the chair. Place a basin underneath. Pour a basin of boiling water through the cloth ; pour the liquid to be strained—i.c. aspic, sweet jelly or consomme—gently through the cloth, having placed a clean basin underneath. Repeat this two or three times until the liquid runs through perfectly clear. In cold weather it is well to stand a basin of hot water in the cloth ; this will hasten the straining, but the stand must not be otherwise interfered with, else the jelly or consomme is apt to become cloudy. To Scald.—In a culinary sense, scalding means immersion in boil- ing water. Kidneys, calf’s feet, sheep’s trotters, calf’s head and tongue, and the legs of chickens are often subjected to this process by being plunged into boiling water for a moment or two prior to cooking.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 32 How to Mask or Coat Moulds.—See that the mould to be used is perfectly clean and dry, place it on the ice or in a small vessel containing enough crushed ice to keep the mould well surrounded. When the mould is cold pour in some cold liquid jelly or whatever is to be used for coating the inside of the mould. Now move it round on the ice, so that it (the jelly) reaches all sides of the mould, then pour the liquid portion out of the mould. This will coat or mask a mould with a thin layer ; if, however, a thicker coating is wanted, the operation must be repeated. Cutlet and other small fancy moulds are treated in the same manner for masking purposes. Aspic, wine jellies, sweet cream, chaud-froid sauces, etc., are used for coating or masking moulds. Aspic or Savoury Jelly {for Cold Entrees, Savouries, Hors d'ceuvres, etc.) I quart clear stock or water, 2J oz. gelatine (French leaf), the juice of 1 lemon and its rind, Jgill sherry, igill tarragon vinegar, ^ gill French wine or Orleans vinegar, i small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), i small onion sliced, I bay-leaf, 10 peppercorns, 10 allspice, i blade of mace, a few celery leaves, ^ small carrot, sliced, ^ teaspoonful salt, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. See that all the ingredients are ready and the vegetables clean. Whisk up lightly the whites of eggs with the shells, and put them, together with the remainder of the above-named ingredients, into a well-tinned stewpan, stir with a whisk over the fire, and bring it thus slowly to the boil. Remove the whisk and draw the stewpan away from the fire, and allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a clean cloth previously steeped in boiling water and tied over a soup stand or the legs of a stool turned upside down ; or pass it through a warm jelly-bag ; if not clear at first, pass it through a second or third time. The aspic is then ready for use. This aspic is suitable for borders or decorative purposes ; if required for other purposes, 2 ounces of gelatine will be found sufficient. Socles of Rice for Cold Entrees, etc.—Wash some Carolina rice in several waters, put in a well-tinned stewpan, with about three times its quantity of cold water, heat up slowly and bring to the boil, then cook at the side of the stove or in the oven gradually until the rice is done ; the liquid by this time should be almost absorbed in the rice. Pound it in a mortar while warm, until it has the appearance of a smooth paste. Add a little salt to flavour, and press into a wetted mould. Set the mould in the ice for two to three hours. To unmould it immerse in hot water, turn out, and carve the side with a sharp knife to give it a more artistic appearance. Dress and use as foundation of cold dishes as required. Spun Sugar.—Weigh half a pound of best cane sugar and put it in a clean copper sugar-boiler (pan), add a gill of water and allow it to dissolve. Bring it to the boil, remove the scum and continue to boil till it registers 280 degrees on Senn’s Saccharometer ; this is called the small crack or hard feather. Now take a fork or spoon133 ELEMENTARY METHODS. and throw it lightly on an oiled rolling-pin or oiled handle of a large wooden spoon. Move the fork or spoon to and fro ; the sugar will then form the desired threads. How to Make Pastry Roses [Roses de Nouilles, pour Bouquetihe garniture).—Roll out very thinly some nouille paste, cut it into square pieces of even size. Place 3 to 4 pieces, well flavoured, on top of each other, shape it into a pear-like form, cut the top crossways three or four times with a sharp knife, open the leaves so that it resembles a rose. Continue to prepare the remainder of paste in the same way, and plunge the roses into hot fat. Fry a golden colour, drain and use as part garnish for Bouquetiere styled dishes. Roses for meat pies are made in the same style, using short crust or puff paste. Culinary Pastes [Pdtes d’Office).—Culinary pastes are used as a foundation and covering for pies and tarts, lining or Ailing for entremets, etc. There are three varieties, the Paste Crusts, Batters, and Creams. The latter are more commonly known as cremes pdtissieres or cremes d'office ; these are used largely in the prepara- tion of Continental pastry. Short Crust Paste [Pate a foncer). I lb. flour, lb. butter, a pinch of salt, about ^ pint water. Sift the flour, add the salt, rub in lightly the butter, moisten with sufficient water to make the paste, knead it until it forms a smooth paste. Let it rest in a cool place for about an hour before using it. For fruit-pie crust, tartlets, etc., add an ounce of castor sugar and one yolk of egg, proceeding in the same manner, using enough water to work the ingredients into a smooth but not too firm paste. M.^KING A WELL IN FLOUR. PuH-Paste [Feuillctage). I lb. flour, oz. salt, i lb. butter, about t- pint water, i teaspoonful lemon- juice. Sift the flour on to the pastry slab, add the salt, make a well in the centre, put in sufficient cold water and the lemon-juice to form a smooth paste, working in at the same time a little butter about the size of a walnut. Knead the paste as little as possible, and allow it to stand for a few minutes before working in the remainder of the butter.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 134 Wash the butter in iced water, knead it in a wet cloth, and shape into a flat square. Roll out the paste into a square about twice the size of the butter ; the sides of the paste should be rolled somewhat thinner than the centre. Put the butter in the centre of the paste, fold in the four sides, so as to completely envelop the butter. Roll out very gently and in one direction only, and fold in three ; this is called the first turn. Keep the paste in a cool place, and repeat rolling and folding it as befofe three or four times, allowing the paste to cool for at least ten minutes between the turns. The paste is then ready for use. HOW TO KNEAD PASTE. Pate d’Office [a Useful Paste for Lining Tartlets, etc.). J lb. flour, 3 oz. sugar (castor), i oz. butter, i small egg, i teaspoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a pinch of salt. Mix and work the above ingredients in the usual way ; if too dry, moisten with a little milk. Knead well and use as required. Nouille Paste {Pdte No miles). 1 lb. flour, i-| oz. butter, 2 small whole or 3 yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a little milk or water, if found necessary. Sift the flour on to the pastry slab, make a well in the centre. Add the salt, eggs, and butter. Mix thoroughly and knead to a stiff but elastic paste ; a little milk or water should be added with the eggs. Great care must, however, be taken not to make the paste too soft. This paste requires at least fifteen minutes’ kneading. Divide into pieces, roll out very thinly, and use as directed. Pate Duchesse {Duchess Paste). I pint cream, 2 oz. castor sugar, \ lb. butter, i teaspoonful orange-flower water, a pinch of salt, flour, 2 or 3 eggs. Put the cream, sugar, butter, orange-flower water, and salt in a stewpan, and when at the boiling-point stir in enough sifted flour to form a dry paste, and work over the fire till the flour is cooked. When a little cool add two or three eggs. Rough Puff or Half-Puff Paste {Demi-feuilletage). I lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, a pinch of salt, lemon-juice, and water. Sift the flour on to a paste-board, make a well, and put in half a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, the salt, and an ounce of the butter ;35 ELEMENTAR V METHODS. add enough water to make a smooth yet stiff paste. Roll out, fold in the remainder of the butter, and proceed in the same manner as directed on page 134. Roll and fold four times in all. This paste is used for meat or fruit-pie crust, tartlets, etc. Pate a Choux [Choiix Paste for Sweet Dishes). 4 lb. butter, i pint water, i lemon, 2 oz. sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 or 3 eggs, about 4 oz. flour. Put the water, butter, lemon-rind finely chopped, sugar, and salt in a stewpan on the fire, when at the boiling point stir in suffi- cient flour to form a stiff paste, and work over the Are till the flour is cooked. When a little cool add two or three eggs according to size. Choux Paste for General Use. 3 oz. butter, i-J giU water, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 2 whole and i yolk of eggs, salt, and a pinch of castor sugar. Put the water and butter in a small stewpan, add a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of sugar ; bring it to the boil. Stir in the flour, work vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon, continue to work on the stove until the paste leaves the sides of the stewpan clean. Let it cool, and add by degrees the eggs. Use as directed. Note.—When choux paste is used for savoury or soup quenelles the sugar must be omitted. Pancake Batter. ^ oz. flour (sifted), 2 eggs, i3 giU of milk, a pinch of salt. Beat up the eggs in a basin, stir gradually into the flotir, beat up thoroughly, adcling the salt. Continue beating whilst the milk is added by degrees. Strain if necessary, and let it stand for at least an hour before using. Frying Batter [Pate a Frire). 4 oz. flour, 2 whites of eggs, i yolk of egg, i tablespoonful of cream, oz. oiled butter. Sift the flour into a basin ; add the oiled butter, a pinch of salt, the yolk of egg, and the cream; mix well with a wooden spoon, and dilute gradually with about half a gill of lukewarm water, tvork it well uhtil the paste becomes quite smooth. Allow it to stand for about half an hour or more, and when required whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix gently. The batter is then ready for use. If intended for fruit fritters, add a teaspoonful of castor sugar ; if for fish or meat, a few drops of lemon-juice added to the batter will be found an improvement. A thinnish batter is preferable to a thick one. Yeast Batter for Fritters, etc. 8 oz. of flour, -1- oz. compressed yeast, i t oz. oiled butter, milk, salt, sugar. Mix the yeast with a little tepid milk, work in gradually 2 oz. of sifted flour, and adding more milk or water, make into a light dough. Let it rise in a warm place for about an hour. Work in the butter, 6 more oz. of flour, a pinch of salt and sugar, withTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 136 sufficient milk to form a smooth paste. Beat up thoroughly and allow to rise again before using. Pate brisee a I’Anchois {Anchovy Paste Crust for Savouries). 6 oz. flour, 2^ oz. butter, i egg, i tablespoonful milk or cream, i table- spoonful anchovy essence or anchovy paste. Sift the flour, rub in the butter, add the anchovy, the egg, and sufficient cream or milk to work it into a stiff but smooth paste. Line moulds, etc., as directed. Hot-water Crust {Pate a Pate, or Raised Pie Crust). I lb. flour, I gill milk, 4 oz. lard. Sift the flour, put the milk and lard into a small stewpan, and heat up. Mix a small quantity of water with this, and work into the flour to produce a firm but smooth paste. Use the paste for lining, and covering for raised pies, pork or game. Macaroon Paste. 4 oz. ground almonds, i lb. castor sugar, 3 whites of eggs, 3 drops almond essence. Pound the almonds and sugar in a mortar ; add the whites of eggs one at a time ; pound well, so as to thoroughly mix it; last of all add the essence, and use as required. If placed in a jar and covered it will keep good for some time. Creme d’Amandes {Almond Cream). I lb. ground almonds, ^ lb. sugar, i oz. flour, ^ pint milk, i yolk of egg, vanilla essence. Mix the ground almonds with 4 oz. of castor sugar ; when fine enough pass through a sieve. Then make a cream with 4 oz. of sugar, milk, and flour (sifted). Cook for ten minutes ; add the yolk of egg, and a few drops of vanilla essence. When the mixture is sufficiently creamy, incorporate the almond paste and use for filling. Cassolette Paste. 6 oz. flour, ij oz. butter, i egg, a little water, one teaspoonful of lemon- juice, a pinch of salt. Put the flour in a basin, add the salt, and rub in the butter until quite smooth. Then moisten with the egg, the lemon-juice, and a very little water. Mi.x the whole thoroughly, and work into a smooth but stiff paste. Use for lining of small cassolette timbale or zephire moulds. Pate d’Amandes {Almond Paste). 3 oz. ground almonds, 6 oz. loaf sugar, i white of egg, cream of tartar. Put the loaf sugar in a stewpan, add a pinch of cream of tartar and about a tablespoonful of water, bring it to the boil, remove the scum, and boil to the ball degree—i.e. 235 degrees by Senn’s Saccharometer, then pour it into a basin containing the ground almonds, mix thoroughly with about half the white of an egg. When well worked turn ont on a board and use as required.137 ELEMENTARY METHODS. Almond Paste (No. 2), li lb. lump sugar, saffron, i gill water, 3 drops almond essence, |- lb. ground almonds, i egg. Put sugar and water in a copper pan ; when dissolved place on the fire and let boil to the small blow degree ; add the almonds and essence, also saffron to give it a yellow tint; turn on a slab and work in one whole egg ; work to a soft paste, Pate Madeleine. I lb. flour, -J- lb. butter, i lb. castor sugar, i teaspoonful orange-flower water, the juice and rind of a lemon, 6 eggs. Sift the flour and put it with the sugar and butter (previously oiled) in a stewpan ; add the orange-flower water, lemon-juice, and the lemon-rind finely chopped. Work in the yolks of eggs ; beat the whites stiffly and incorporate with the mixture. Creme patissiere {Confectioneds Custard). pint milk, 4 oz. sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, \ oz. potato flour (fecule de pommes de terre), 3 sheets French gelatine, flavouring essence. Boil the milk, add the sugar and flavouring. Beat the yolks of eggs with the fecule, pour the hot milk gradually on to this, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken. Dissolve the gelatine and mix with the above, strain through a fine sieve, let cool, and use as directed. Creme Frangipane. •J lb. flour (sifted), 2 oz. butter, J lb. castor sugar, i pint milk, 4 eggs, a pinch of salt. Put into a small stewpan two whole eggs and four yolks, add the flour, the sugar, almonds, and a tiny pinch of salt, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Add the milk little by little, stirring well. Put in the butter, and stir continuously over a gentle fire, taking great care that it does not burn or stick to the bottom of the pan. Cook for about ten minutes, add flavouring essence, and turn into a basin. Use as required. Creme a Gateau de Pithivier. J lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. butter. 6 oz. sweet almonds (blanched), 2 eggs, I gill double cream. Pound the almonds with the sugar and add one egg. When the almonds are in a smooth paste add the other eggs. Mi.x thoroughly, and add the cream last. Add any desired flavour and use as required. Creme a Gateau fourre {Cake Cream filling). J lb. sugar, \ lb. sweet almonds (blanched), J lb. butter. Pound the almonds to a paste with the sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice ; put this paste into a stewpan, add the butter, and work all together over a slow fire. To this put an equal quantity of erhne frangipane (see preceding recipe). When well mixed put it into a jar to keep for use. Pate a Brioche {Brioche Paste). I lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 3 or 4 eggs, ^ oz. yeast, gill milk, i teaspoonful castor sugar, and a pinch of salt. Mix the yeast with a little tepid water ; add sufficient flour to make a sponge paste, and allow to stand for an hour or so. Put138 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the remainder of the flour in a basin, add the salt and sugar, break and beat up the egg. Melt the butter in a little warm milk. Stir this gradually inta the yeast and then mix with the flour, etc., and work into a dough. Knead well for a good quarter of an hour. Stand it in a basin, and allow to rise for about two or three hours, keeping it in a moderate temperature. Then make up into shapes or mould and bake. Icing for Gateaux, Petits Fours, and Small Cakes {Fondant for Masking Cakes and Gateaux). lb. lump sugar, a good pinch of cream of tartar, about a gill of boiling water. Put the sugar into a copper stewpan, add the pinch of cream of tartar, pour the water (boiling) over, and let stand on the stove until the sugar is quite dissolved. Set it over a quick Are and allow it to boil up quickly for a few minutes. The best way to And out when the sugar has boiled sufficiently is to try the heat with a thermometer, which should register 230 degrees for fondant sugar. Take it from the Are and rub the syrup with a wooden spoon against the sides for a minute or two. After it has stood to cool for a few minutes sprinkle a few drops of cold water over the top and stir until it becomes a white or creamy substance. It is best to turn it into an earthenware basin as soon as it is done. It can be kept for a long time if covered over with a thick damp cloth, which should, of course, be changed and redamped from time to time. When required for use a quantity is put into a stewpan or basin and stood in hot water over the Are, and is worked until it is fit for glazing. A little water may be added if not soft enough. In order to know when the fondant is fit for use it should be just warm enough to bear the finger in it. Any flavouring can be added. Use always the best quality. Chocolate flavour is added by grating a small quantity of unsweetened chocolate or cocoa powder, both of which should be previously dissolved before being added. For coffee flavour use extract or essence of coffee. Water Icing or Transparent Icing. I lb. loaf sugar, ^ gill warm water. Put the loaf sugar into a clean and dry stewpan or copper sugar-boiler, add the warm water, stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved, then place it over the fire and boil for about five minutes, or until it is reduced to a thick syrup. It should register 230 degrees Fahr. on the saccharometer. Pour it into a basin and stir till almost cold. Use it for coating or covering cakes and pastry. This icing must be used before it is quite cold, otherwise the covering will not be successful. Glace fondante au Cafe {Coffee Icing). ^ 1 lb. icing or castor sugar, r gill water, coffee essence. Put the pound of icing sugar or castor sugar in a copper pan, add about a gill of water and boil it to the small ball degree ; turn out into a basin and work with a spatula until it becomes Treamy ;EL EMEN TA R Y ME 2'HO D S. 139 flavour with a dessert-spoonful of best coffee essence. Dip in the surface of the gateaux and hnish as directed. It is necessary to remember that if fondant icing is used too warm it will lose its brilliancy, and that it should be stirred until it has reached the desired consistency for icing—in other words, the icing point. Beurre au Cafe (Moka) {Coffee Butter for decorating Pastry and Cakes). lb. fresh butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, i yolk of egg, essence of coffee. Cream the sugar and yolk of egg for about ten minutes ; add a few drops of coffee essence or very strong freshly made coffee, so as to impart a flavour of coffee. Work in by degrees the butter, previously put in a warm place to make it soft. When sufficiently worked put it on the ice for a few minutes, stir again, and use for garnish by means of a forcing-bag and fancy tube or a paper cornet, point cut according to requirement. Glace royale [Royal Icing). \ lb. icing sugar, i white of egg, i teaspoonful lemon-juice. Put the sugar in a clean and dry basin, add the lemon-juice ; work these to a creamy substance with the white of egg. Beat it with a wooden spoon until the mixture is a white, shiny, and fairly consistent paste. Chocolate Icing. 3 oz. Van Houten’s chocolate, ^ lb. icing sugar, h gill water. Break the chocolate into small pieces, put it in a clean and dry stewpan with the water, place it on the Are and stir with a wooden spoon until melted ; then stir in the icing sugar. When well dis- solved remove from the fire and use while warm as required. Vanilla Sugar.—Split some vanilla-pod, cut it up into small pieces and pound in a mortar with a quantity of castor sugar (2 lb. of sugar to one ounce of vanilla) ; wffien hne enough pass through a hne sieve, and keep in a well-covered tin or glass jar. Meat Juice.—To extract the juice from meat, a special press is required. The meat intended for this purpose must be very underdone. Venison and ducks, beef flllets and carcases, are frequently treated in this way. Raw lean beef when required for raw beef juice should be well batted, freed from skin and fat, and cut into strips before being put into the press. Pounding Meat, etc.—When pounding meat, poultry or game for forcemeat, use only the lean parts, freed from skin, fat, bones, and gristle, and cut up snlall, or, better, run it through a mincer before commencing to pound in the mortar. Vffien fish is used for similar preparations, free it from skin and bones and cuttings, then pound. Do not attempt to pound too large a quantity at one time, and do not add panada, eggs, and cream, until the meat is fairly smooth. This will make the pounding all the easier.140 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Meat Glaze [Glace dc Viande).—Put 8 quarts of good stock, white or brown, into a stewpan, boil up, skim well, and reduce on a moderate fire from 3^ to 4 hours. It will make barely half a pint when done. Put into a jar whilst hot, cover and keep in a dry place, and used as required. If well made it will keep for a long time. Duxelle Puree. 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. finely chopped cooked ham, 6 mushrooms, 3 shallots, 1 clove garlic, i truffle, i glass of white wine stock, bay-leaf, pepper, salt, nutmeg, allemande sauce. Chop the mushrooms, shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, garlic, and the truffle. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the ham and the above-named ingredients, stir over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with a glass of white wine and a little stock, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little powdered bay-leaf ; when well reduced stir in four tablespoonfuls of allemande sauce, boil again, and serve as required. Fumet of Game [Fmnet de Gibier). Carcase of game, i small carrot, j onion, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, 2 oz. raw ham, i oz. lard or butter, i glass sherry, i quart stock. Chop up the carcase, wash, peel and slice tlie carrot, peel and slice the onion. Put the butter or lard in a stewpan, when hot add the carcase and ham cut into small pieces, fry a few minutes, then add the vegetables and herbs. Fry again, moisten with the wine, cover, and steam a few minutes, add the stock and cook for twenty minutes. Skim, strain, and use as directed. Chicken Essence [Essence de Volaillc).—Reduce i quart of chicken consomme (p. 189) over a slow fire to about half a pint. Skim, strain into a white pot, and use as required. TWO TYPES OF SOUP STANDS, CONSOMME OR SOUP STRAINERS.CHAPTER XIII. SAUCES. (See also Chapter X. on the Composition of Sauces.) Sauce Allemande {German Sauce). oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of cream, i tea- spoonful lemon-juice, chicken stock, nutmeg, salt, pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir a few minutes without allowing it to brown, dilute with rather more than a pint of chicken stock, and stir until it boils. Season with pepper and salt and grated nutmeg. Let it simmer for half an hour, skim, and finish with a liaison made of the yolks of eggs, the cream, and C oz. of fresh butter. Stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set, but do not let it boil ; add the lemon-juice, and pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth. Sauce Anchois {Anchovy Sauce). I oz. butter, f oz. flour, J pint milk, J pint fish stock, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, mix well, and cook a little. Add by degrees the milk and the fish stock. Stir till it boils, and let cook for lo minutes. Incorporate a small dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence, boil up again and strain. Sauce Anchois {another way).—Heat up half a pint of bechamel or hollandaise sauce, and stir in one teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Sauce Albert.—Prepare a Sauce Bearnaise (p. 143), but substitute the tarragon with a few finely-chopped leaves of green mint, and add a little finely-grated horse-radish. Sauce Aigre-Douce. J pint poivrade sauce, i tablespooiiful red-currant jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. To the poivrade sauce (p. 157) add the red-currant jelly, boil up and skim, then stir in the cream, re-heat without boiling again, season to taste and use as required. This sauce is especially suit- able for roast game, etc. Sauce Aurora. ^ pint of bechamel sauce, 2 oz. butter, i oz. lobster butter, \ gill cream, I dessertspoonful tarragon vinegar, cayenne. Put the bechamel sauce (p. 142) in a stewpan, add the butter, a pinch of cayenne, cream, tarragon vinegar, and lobster butter. Stir well over boiling water till hot, but without letting the sauce boil.tAi THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Aspic Mayonnaise. J pint aspic jelly, i gill stiff mayonnaise. Dissolve the aspic, and let it get partially cool, then stir it gently into the mayonnaise and nse before it begins to set, according to direction. Aspic a la Tomate [Tomato Aspic). I pint aspic jelly, 4 small ripe tomatoes or | pint tomato pulp, J oz. French leaf gelatine, i dessertspoonful sherry. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, rub through a fine hair sieve, dissolve the gelatine, and add to the pulp. Put the jelly, tomato pulp, and sherry in a stewpan, boil up, skim well, and simmer for a few minutes ; pass all through a fine hair sieve, and use as directed. Aspic Cream (see Creme a 1’Aspic, p. 147). Sauce Bechamel. oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, pint of milk, and white meat stock, i small onion or shallot, i small bouquet garni, lo peppercorns, J a bay-leaf, I small blade of mace, seasoning. Put the milk on to boil with the onion or shallot (peeled), the bouquet, peppercorns, mace, and bay-leaf. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning (or use white roux), stir in the milk, etc. (hot), whisk over the fire until it boils, and let simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take out the bouquet, rub through a sieve or tammy, return to the stewpan, season lightly with a pinch of nutmeg, half-pinch of cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of salt. The sauce is then ready for use. Bechamel Sauce [Maigre).—Proceed the same as above directed, omitting the meat stock, and using in its place milk and fish stock or milk and water. Sauce au Beurre-Noir [Black Butter Sauce). oz. butter, i teaspooiiful finely chopped parsley, | teaspoonful vinegar. Put the butter in an omelette pan, fry over a quick fire until it acquires a nut-brown colour, then add the vinegar and parsley. Pour over the article to be served. Sauce Bigarade.—Proceed the same as for “ Orange Sauce ” (p. 156), but substitute a Seville orange for a sweet one. Use only half the rind, and boil at least for ten minutes. Omit red-currant jelly, and add a glass of port wine in its place. Sauce Bordeaux.—Peel and mince finely two shallots, reduce with I gill of claret with ^ a teaspoonful of crushed white pepper- corns, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of marjoram. When about half reduced, add i gill of espagnole sauce, and boil for 10 minutes, then strain, re-heat, and whisk in i teaspoonful of anchovy or cray- fish butter. Season to taste, and use as directed. Sauce Bercy.—Reduce i-|- gills of fish stock to about one-third its quantity, then add i chopped shallot, previously tossed in butter, I glass white wine, i teaspoonful of meat or fish glaze, and reduce again, and add -J- gill of veloute sauce, and the juice of lemon.SA UCES. 143 Tammy and return to the stewpan, finish with i oz. of herb butter and serve. A^ote.—The herb butter is made with finely chopped fennef tarragon, chervil, and parsley, and fresh butter. Sauce Bearnaise. gill tarragon vinegar, 3 shallots finely chopped, 6 peppercorns, cruslied, 4 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of white sauce, 4 oz. butter, 1 sprig thyme, meat glaze, lemon-juice. Put the shallots, peppercorns, and thyme with the vinegar in a stewpan, cover and boil until well reduced, remove the thyme, add the sauce and a little dissolved meat glaze. \\Tisk in the yolks of eggs, taking care not to let the sauce boil, remove the stewpan from the fire, and work in by degrees the butter. Only a little butter must be added at a time, otherwise the sauce will get oily. Strain through a pointed strainer or tammy. A little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, and a few drops of lemon-juice may be added after the sauce is strained. Sauce Bearnaise Brune.—Prepare an ordinary bearnaise as above, with the addition of meat glaze to give it a brown colour. Sauce Bearnaise-tomatee.—Same' as above, adding tomato puree in place of meat glaze. Sauce Blanquette.—This sauce is made the same as “ Sauce Allemande,” adding three tablespoonfuls of cream instead of one. Sauce Bordelaise {Claret Sauce). f pint espagnole (p. 148), or brown sauce, i wineglassful claret, 2 finely chopped shallots, i- oz, meat glaze, i teaspoonful chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper. Put the wine and shallots in a stewpan, reduce to half, add the sauce, and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Take off the scum, add the chopped herbs and meat glaze. Season with sugar, salt, and pepper. Give it one more boil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. Note.—In most cases where bordelaise sauce is used, and especially so with beef, some thin round slices of beef marrow are blanched and put on the meat before it is served, or else warmed up in the sauce. Sauce Bulgarienne.—This consists of i gill of mayonnaise to which I* gill of boiling cream is added, also a tablespoonful of finely- chopped celery heart, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp. Whisk up over a pan of boiling water to get just warm. Season to taste and serve. Bread Sauce [Sauce au Pain). 4 oz. fresh bread-crumbs, i small onion, i clove, 4 peppercorns, i pint of milk, p oz. fresh butter, salt, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Peel the onion, stick in it the clove, put the onion and milk in a saucepan, boil up, add the bread-crumbs and the peppercorns, cook for fifteen minutes. Remove the onions and peppercorns, stir in the cream and butter, season with a pinch of salt, and keep144 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. hot until required for serving. If liked the onion may be cooked longer, passed through a sieve, and added to the sauce ; the cream can be omitted ; if found too thick, a little hot water can be added. Bread sauce is usually served with roast fowl, turkey, and game birds. Brown Fish Sauce {Sauce Bnme). ^ lb. fish-bones, etc., oz. butter, i dessertspoonful of flour, i tablespoon- ful Brown & Poison’s patent cornflour, i gill claret (optional), J pint fish stock or water, i sliced onion, i small bunch savoury herbs (bouquet garni), 4 mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste. Fry the fish-bones, etc., in the butter over a quick fire, add the onion and fry also, stir in the flour and cornflour, and let the flour get brown whilst stirring ; add the carrot, herbs, and mushrooms, and moisten with the claret and the stock. Stir till it boils and let simmer for twenty minutes. Pass through a tammy cloth or fine sieve, season to taste, and serve. If liked the mushrooms may be chopped finely and put into the sauce at the last. Sauce Cardinal. J pint veloutee (p. i6i) or bechamel (p. 142) sauce, i oz. butter, juice of ^ lemon, | oz. lobster coral or i oz. lobster butter (p. 175), i dessert- spoonful meat glaze, } gill mushroom liquor, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Reduce the sauce with the mushroom liquor, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; add the lemon-juice, and whisk in the butter and lobster butter or coral, the latter finely chopped. Strain or tammy. Return to the stewpan and add the meat glaze, stir till smooth, and keep hot in the bain-marie till required. Note.—When this sauce is required for maigre dishes use bechamel maigre sauce in place of veloutee. Omit the meat glaze and add in its place ^ gill of cream. Sauce Chaud-froid, blanche {White Chaud-froid Sauce). I pint bechamel or supreme sauce, i gill aspic, 5 or 6 leaves gelatine. I gill cream, i teaspoonful chilli vinegar or lemon-juice. Dissolve the gelatine along with the aspic jelly, warm up the sauce, and mix the two together. Stir over the fire imtil it boils, put in vinegar or lemon-juice, and cook for a few minutes. Strain or tammy ; add the cream when cooling, and use as required. Sauce Chaud-froid, blonde {Fawn Chaud-froid Sauce). i pint aspic jelly, i gill ailemande sauce (p. 141), ^ gill cream, i table- spoonful espagnole sauce (p. 148), | oz. leaf gelatine, a glass of Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Melt the aspic jelly in a stewpan, add the wine, espagnole, and ailemande sauce, let it come to a boil, and skim. Soak the gelatine in cold water, squeeze it well, and put with the sauce ; when dissolved, stir in the cream, pass through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, and use as directed. Sauce Chaud-froid, brune {Brown Chaud-froid Sauce). 4 pint espagnole (p. 148) or salmi sauce (p, 159), i glass Madeira or sherry, 4 pkit aspic, 4 leaves gelatine, cream. Boil up the sauce. Dissolve the gelatine with the aspic, mix both together, add the wine, let simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth ; add a little cream, and flavour to taste.145 S.l UCES. Chaud-froid Sauce, Green or Pink. Prepare a white chaud-froid sauce, to which add a few drops of spinach greening to give it a green tint, or a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal to give it a rose or pink tint. Sauce Chateaubriand {also called Crapatidinc Sauce). I gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, 2 cloves, i sprig of thyme, 2 shallots, 12 peppercorns, about i-| gill meat glaze, the juice of ^ lemon, 2 oz. butter, I teaspoonful chopped tarragon. Peel and chop the shallots, put them with the wine, cloves, thyme, and crushed peppercorns in a small stewpan, cover and reduce to half its quantity, strain into another stewpan, add the lemon-juice. Work in the meat glaze and butter bit by bit (keep the stewpan in the bain-marie), add the tarragon last of all. Whisk well, ancl serve very hot with fillet steak, Chateaubriand, etc. Sauce Champagne. |- pint of espagnole sauce, i glass of champagne, 2 cloves, 6 peppercorns, I liay-leaf. Put the cloves, peppercorns, bay-leaf, and espagnole sauce (p. 148) into a stewpan on the fire ; let it reduce a little, add the champagne, and the essence remaining from the braised ham. Reduce the whole for ten minutes, or longer if found too thin. Strain through a pointed strainer and serve with braised ham. Sauce Chasseur {Hunters' Sauce). i pint Madere sauce (p. 151), ^ gill game liquor (fumet) (p. 140), lemon- juice, and 1 to 2 livers of game. Chop the liver finely and cook with the sauce and liquor of game for about ten minutes, season to taste, add a teaspoonful of lemon- juice and serve. Sauce Chasseur Royal. I small onion, bay-leaf, parsley, thyme, marjoram, 10 peppercorns, i glass port wine, ^ pint espagnole sauce, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, 4 gill of double cream. Chop the bones of the soles, and put in a stewpan with the trim- mings of the oysters, the sliced onion, bay-leaf, sprig of parsley and thyme, and a sprig of marjoram. Moisten with the port wine, let it reduce to half the origina quantity. Keep well covered during the process. Now add the crushed peppercorns, anchovy essence, and espagnole sauce, or I gill of brown stock. Simmer for twenty minutes, remove the scum, and pass through a tammy cloth or very fine pointed strainer. Return to the stewpan, add a little seasoning if needed,, and finish with -4- gill of double cream. Keep very hot, but not boiling, and use as directed. Sauce Champignons, blanche {White Mushroom Sauce). gill bechamel .sauce, gill white stock, 10 mushrooms, i dessertspoonful lemon-juice, white wine, i tablespoonful cream. Boil together the bechamel sauce (p. 142) and the veal stock (or other white stock), and reduce to about half its original quantity. Skim well and add the preserved mushrooms cut into slices, i table- K146 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. spoonful of mushroom liquor, lemon-juice, and about half a gill of Chablis or other white wine. Let the whole boil, season to taste, then add one tablespoonful of cream, and serve, Sauce Champignons, brune {Brown Mushroom Sauce) 1 pint demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry, 10 champignons. Chop finely the preserved mushrooms (champignons), put them in a small stewpan with a little of the liquor and the sherry, cover and allow to reduce well. Now add the demi-glace or thin espagnole sauce ; boil up, skim, season to taste, and use as required. Cumberland Sauce {a Cold Game Sauce). 2 shallots, I orange, i lemon, i dessertspoonful mustard, gill port wine, ground ginger, 2 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Mince the shallots, put them in a stewpan with the thin rinds of the lemon and orange cut into fine Julienne strips. Add half a gill of water and cook for ten minutes, then strain and return to the stewpan, adding the mi.xed mustard, port wine, a pinch of ground ginger, red-currant jelly, the juice of the lemon and orange, and the \'inegar. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, boil up, strain, and serve cold with any kind of game or ducks. A gill of espagnole sauce added improves this sauce. Cambridge Sauce {Cold Meat or Salad Sauce). 4 eggs, 4 fillets of anchovies, i tablespoonful capers, i dessertspoonful French mustarci, i teaspoonful English mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil, i table- spoonful tarragon vinegar, tarragon and chervil, cayenne, parsley or olives. Pound in a mortar the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, anchovies, capers, a sprig of tarragon and chervil ; then add French mustard, English mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and moisten with the olive oil and tarragon vinegar. Rub the whole through a fine tammy or hair sieve, stir in a little more oil and vinegar, and work to the desired consistency ; keep it on the ice till wanted, and add a little chopped parsley or olives just before serving. No salt is needed, on account of the anchovies used in making this sauce. Sauce Chevreuil ( Venison Sauce). i pint espagnole sauce, i glass port wine, i dessertspoonful red-currant jelly, I 02. lean ham, i oz. butter, } gill vinegar, i small onion, 12 pepper- corns, I bay-leaf, small carrot, thyme, parsley. Mince finely the onion and ham, fry these in the butter, and add the vinegar, crushed peppercorns, bay-leaf, minced carrot, and a little thyme and chopped parsley. Cover and boil for ten minutes. Then add the espagnole sauce (p. 148), port wine, and the red- currant jelly. Cook for ten minutes, skim and strain, season to taste, re-heat, and use as required. Sauce Colbert aux Fines Herbes {Brown Herb Sauce). gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), i glass or Madeira wine, i tablespoonful of meat glaze, oz. of fresh butter, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil—one dessertspoonful in all. Put the sauce into a small stewpan, stir over the fire until hot, add the wine, and let boil a few minutes. Remove to the side of the stove, and stir in gradually the butter and the meat glaze. BeatSAUCES. 147 up with a small whisk, but do not let it boil again. Last of all add the lemon-juice and the chopped herbs. Serve as directed. If desired richer, d oz. more butter may be added in the manner described. Sauce aux Capres [Caper Sauce). •J pint melted Ijutter sauce, i tablespoonful capers, -J tablespoonful vinegar. Mix with the melted butter sauce (p. 155) a tablespoonful of capers and the vinegar. Boil up and serve. j Creme a I’Aspic [Aspic Cream). \ gill bechamel or allemande sauce, i teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, \ pint aspic jelly, i gill double cream, cayenne, mignonette pepper. Warm up the bechamel (p. 142) or allemande sauce, add the tarragon vinegar, stir this into the liquid aspic jelly, mix with it the cream, season with a pinch of cayenne and mignonette pepper. Pass through a sieve or tammy cloth, and use as directed. Creme de Celeri [Celery Cream Sauce). I small head of celery, i pint milk, i oz, butter, i oz, flour, a little cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Remove the best part of the celery, wash well, blanch it, drain and steep in cold water ; cut the celery into small pieces, put in a stewpan with the milk, diluted with a little cold stock, add some salt, boil up, skim, and cook till tender. Meanwhile prepare a white roux, i.e. dissolve the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and stir over the fire until the latter is cooked without browning ; then add gradually the celery and stock, let boil a little longer, pass throitgh a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire until it boils, then add a little cream, and keep in the bain-marie until required, Curry Sauce. [Sec “ Sauce Indienne,” p. 150.) Sauce aux Concombres [Cold Cucumber Sauce). j cucumber, j gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), j gill cream, i gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), salt, pepper, spinach greening. Peel thinly the cucumber and cut into small pieces, boil in salted water till tender, and rub through a hair sieve. Return the pulp to the stewpan, add the bechamel sauce ; let it reduce to about half the original quantity, and let it cool. Whip the cream until stiff ; work in the mayonnaise sauce, and mix slowly with the reduced cold sauce, add a little salt and pepper if needed, also a few drops of spinach greening. The sauce is then ready for use. Sauce aux Concombres, chaude [Hoi Cucumber Sauce).—This is made in the same way as above directed, by omitting the mayon- naise and adding an extra quantity of hot bechamel sauce. Cook for ten minutes- before serving. Sauce Danoise [Danish Sauce). 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i glass sherry, 4 g41 chablis or sauterne, i pint fish stock, ^ oz. grated parmesan, 2 teaspoonfuls meat glaze, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, i gill cream, ^ oz. lobster coral, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, let it cook a few minutes without taking colour. Moisten with the wine and fishTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 48 stock. Stir until it boils, then add the anchovy essence, meat glaze, and grated cheese. Season to taste with pepper and salt, let simmer gently for a few minutes, skim and pass through a fine sieve. Return to a clean stewpan and bring to a boil. Work in the cream and lobster coral or lobster butter. Keep hot, but do not let it boil again. Serve with dressed fish—salmon, turbot, soles or lobster. Sauce Demi-Glace [Half-Glaze Sauce). I pint espagnole sauce, i-t gill good gravy, pepper. Reduce (half-glaze) espagnole sauce (see below), with the gravy (strained and free from fat) ; allow to simmer about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper. Sauce Diable {Devilled Satice). \ pint demi-glace sauce, i tablespoonful mixed mustard, i dessertspoonful Worcester sauce, \ oz. butter, 2 finely minced shallots, cayenne, parsley. Fry the shallots in the butter to a golden colour, add the demi- glace sauce, mixed mustard, Worcestershire sauce, and a good pinch of cayenne. Stir until it boils, skim and pass through a fine strainer, add a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve. Egg Sauce {Sauce aux ceufs duvs). Boil an egg for ten minutes, place it into cold water and remove the shell. Separate the yolk from the white and chop each finely. Mix with half a pint of white sauce (p. 163) or bechamel (p. 142), previously heated, season to taste, heat up. Sauce aux Ecrevisses {Prawn Sauce). Proceed the same as for “ Sauce Cardinal ” (p. 144), and include 12 prawns’ heads, which must be cut in quarters and placed into the sauce a few minutes before serving. Sauce Epicurienne {Epicurean Sauce) {suitable for Asparagus, Artichokes or Boiled Fish). I cucumber, i gill mayonnaise, ^ gill cream, i tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, p gill aspic jelly (p. 132), i teaspoonful anchovy essence, i dessert- spoonful chopped gherkins, i dessertspoonful chutney, pepper, salt, sugar. Peel the cucumber, cut it into small pieces, cook till tender in salted water, strain and rub through a fine hair sieve. M’hen cold, stir this puree gradually into the mayonnaise sauce, add the cream, aspic, anchovy essence, the vinegar, and chutney (the latter shorld previously be rubbed thrortgh a sieve) ; season with pepper and salt and a small pinch of castor sugar ; add the chopped gherkins and a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. Sauce Espagnole {Spanish Sauce). 3 quarts of rich stock, 4 oz. lean veal, i bouquet garni, 12 peppercorns, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 4 oz. raw ham or lean bacon, i carrot, I onion, 2 cloves, J pint tomato pulp, i gill claret, i glass sherry, some mushrooms (fresh or preserved). This is the chief brown foundation sauce—it forms the basis for a large number of other sauces. It is advisable that particular care and attention be paid to the preparation of this important sauce. The ingredients given will produce about half a gallon ofSA UCES. 149 sauce. A smaller quantity can be prepared by reducing the quantities in proportion. It is, however, advisable to have at all times an ample supply of this sauce. Wash and peel the carrot, turnip, and onion, cut up small and put in a stewpan with the bouquet, peppercorns, cloves, and the veal and ham, both cut into pieces. Adel an ounce of butter, and stir over the fire until of a nice light brown colour ; this forms a true mirepoix. Pour off the fat, moisten the mirepoix with the stock, claret, sherry, and tomato pulp, boil gently for about an hour. Skim occasionally. Meanwhile, prepare a brown rou.x by melting 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook very slowly over a moderate fire, stirring all the while with a wooden spoon until it acquires a chestnut-brown colour ; or place the stew- pan in the oven and let it cook, stirring from time to time to prevent it from burning, and to blend the flour better. Allow the rou.x to cool a little, pour in gradually the prepared stock, etc., stir over the fire until it boils, let simmer slowly for another hour, skim well, and pass through a tammy cloth or fine sieve. If found too thick, add a little more stock. To prevent a thick crust forming on the top of the sauce, stir occasionally until cpiite cool. Keep the sauce in a stone vessel or pan until wanted. Be sure and boil up the sauce each day if not used up at one time, adding a little stock if necessary. Sauce Genoise {Rich Bi'own Fish Sauce). I sliced onion, i shallot, J clove of garlic, i oz. butter, small bouquet garni (p. 122), I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i glass red wine (Burgundy), i pint espagnole sauce (made from fish stock if desired), a pinch of mignonette pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry onion, shallot, garlic, and bouquet, add the wine, let simmer until the onions are done, then add the sauce, and let simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy, add the pepper and anchovy essence, and use as directed. Sauce Gibier {Game Sauce). Game bones and trimmings, i pint espagnole or brown sauce, ^ gill sherry, onion, carrot, turnip, parsley, thyme, marjoram, bay-leaf, mace, clove. The trimmings, carcases, etc., of any kind of game may be used for this sauce ; those of grouse or woodcock are preferable. Chop small the trimmings of game, put them in a stewpan with a small onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of turnip all cut in slices, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, and one clove, moisten with the sherry, cover and put on the fire to cook for five minutes. Now add the espagnole or brown sauce, let it come quickly to a boil, and keep simmering for fifteen minutes longer. Pass through a tammy cloth, return to a clean stewpan, season with a little salt if necessary, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for serving.ISO THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce GoufTe. I gill cream, i gill wine vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, i bay-leaf, 6 crushed peppercorns, salt, 2 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, i tablespoonful chopped lobster meat. Put the vinegar, bay-leaf, and peppercorns in a stewpan (covered) ; let it reduce a little. Add the yolks of eggs and stir over the hre until the sauce begins to thicken, then remove and put in a saucepan containing boiling water, or in the bain-marie. Work in the butter a little at a time, also the cream, stir vigorously with a small whisk. Pass through a hne strainer or tammy cloth, return to a clean stewpan, add the chopped lobster and a pinch of salt, stir again, place a tew bits of butter on top, and keep hot until required for serving. Sauce Hollandaise {Dutch Sauce) 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, i gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), J gill stock, the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper. Boil up the sauce, remove to tlie side of the stove and whisk in the yolks of eggs, add the stock (hsh, chicken, rabbit or veal), mix thoroughly and add the butter gradually, season with pepper and salt and the lemon-juice. Pass through a tammy and use. Before adding the butter the sauce should be sufficiently heated to bind the eggs. Great care must be taken to prevent it curdling. Another way to make this sauce is to omit the bechamel, and to use 4 yolks of eggs to h a gill of stock, which is hnished with 4 oz. of butter. The hrst is the most convenient and most popular way. This sauce, when hnished, is to be just hot, and on no account must it be allowed to reach the boiling point. Sauce Homard {Lobster Sauce). Take half a pint of bechamel sauce (p. 142), add to it two heaped-up tablespoonfuls of hnely chopped lobster, including a little coral or spawn ; mix, and heat up carefully whilst stirring; season with a pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper, and serve when hot. Sauce aux Huitres {Oyster Sauce). 12 oysters, i oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, i yolk of egg, f of a pint of bechamel sauce (p. 142). Open the oysters, remove the beards and put them, with their litpior, in a small saucepan, with the butter. Cover with the lid, and cook for four minutes (they must not be allowed to boil). Put the oysters on a sieve, cut them in halves or quarters, allow the liquid to reduce to half its original quantity. Strain, return to the saucepan, add the bechamel sauce ; when hot bind with the yolk of egg, then put in the oysters and lemon-juice. Stir till quite hot, but do not let it boil. Season to taste and serve. Sauce Indienne {Indian Curry Sauce). \\ oz. butter, oz. flour, ^ small onion, i tablespoonful curry-powder, 5 pint good stock, salt, i tomato, a few savoury herbs, ^ glass sherry or Marsala. Melt the butter, add the onion, finely chopped ; when of a nice light brown stir in the flour and curry-powder, blend well, and cookSA UCES. iSi for five minutes ; pour in gradually the stock, add the tomato, cut into slices, and the herbs ; bring it to the boil whilst stirring, then add the wine, season to taste, cook for twenty minutes, then strain and serve. Sauce Italienne {Italian Sauce). } pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), 4 small shallots, 8 preserved mushrooms, a sprig of thyme, i bay-leaf, i tablespoonful sweet oil, i glass Chablis or Sauterne, ^ gill stock. Peel the shallots, chop them linely, place in the corner of a clean cloth, hold tightly wrapped up under cold water, then squeeze out the water, and put them in a small stewpan with the oil, stir over the hre for a few minutes, to blend but not to colour. Add the wine, the mushrooms (hnely chopped), herbs, and the stock, let it reduce well, and add the espagnole. Boil for ten minutes, take out the herbs, free it from the oil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. Sauce Joinville. 1 oz. flour, 4 gill fish stock, f pint white stock, 3 oz. butter, 3 yolks of eggs, lobster coral, lemon-juice, salt, ami cayenne. Melt I OZ. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the Hour, and cook a little without browning. Add gradually the hsh and white stock, stir until it boils, and let simmer for twenty minutes. Pound the lobster coral in a mortar with an equal quantity of fresh butter, rub through a sieve and stir into the sauce. Stir in the egg-yolks, one at a time. Season to taste with a pinch of cayenne, salt, ancl lemon-juice. Whisk well over a slow hre, or in a bain-marie. Do not let the sauce boil up again. Pass through a line-pointed strainer or napkin, and.serve as directed. Jus {Brown Stock Gravy). 2 oz. beef suet or i oz. dripping, 2 lb. trimmings of meat and bones, i onion, I carrot, ^ head celery, 2 cloves, i blade mace, 6 peppercorns, bouquet of herbs, 2 quarts water. Put the beef suet or dripping in a stewpan, add a sliced onion and carrot, fry till brown, put in the beef trimmings or other meat, and any bones of meat or carcase of poultry. Let it bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, take up, pour off the fat, and moisten with the water. Add the celery, cloves, mace, peppercorns, and bouquet of herbs. Let the wiiole simmer gently for several hours, take off fat and scum, and strain. Season with salt as required. A few drops of caramel may be added if the gravy is not sufficiently brown. Sauce Madere {Madeira Sauce). Proceed the same as directed for Demi-glace (p. 148). Add one glass of sherry or Marsala ; reduce a little longer, then add a little meat glaze to give it additional richness. Sauce Maitre d’Hotel {Parsley or Fine Herb Sauce). i pint bechamel or veloutce sauce, 3 oz. butter, } lemon, i teaspoonful of chopped, parsley seasoning.The new century cookery book. 152 Put the sauce into a stcwpau, add a little water, stir until it boils, and reduce well. W'hisk in the butter a little at a time, and rub through a tammy cloth or hue hair sieve. Return to the stew- pan, add the parsley and lemon-juice, season with pepper and salt. Sauce Matelote. i pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), i oz. butter, J gill Burgundy wine, | gill Irsh stock, liquor or fuinet, ^ onion, carrot, ^ gill mushroom liquor. Peel the onion and carrot and mince very fine, fry in a little butter a nice colour, drain off the butter, moisten with the wine and mushroom liquor, let this reduce well, then add the fish stock or liquor and the espagnole. Let simmer for ten minutes, then strain through a fine strainer or cloth, add a small piece of butter, season, if necessary, with a few drops of lemon-juice, salt and pepper, and keep hot. Note.—When espagnole is not handy, substitute for it oz. of flour, } oz. of butter, well blended (fried a chestnut brown), and diluted with I pint of rich brown stock ; boil well, skim and strain. Sauce Maintenon. I pint bechamel sauce, 4 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful pannesan cheese, I tablespoonful cooked onion puree, garlic, paprika pepper, nutmeg. Boil the bechamel sauce (p. 142) for about fifteen minutes, stirring continually ; add to it the yolks of eggs, parmesan cheese, cooked onion puree (Soubise), a suspicion of garlic, just enough to impart the aroma, a pinch of paprika pepper, and a little grated nutmeg (salt if needed). Stir till it thickens, without allowing it to boil, and use as required. Note.—This sauce is especially adapted for so-called gratin dishes', and must therefore be well reduced to the correct consistency. Sauce Mayonnaise. The mayonnaise is the highest type of salad dressings or salad sauces. It is a mixture of yolks of eggs, sweet oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar. Its excellence depends entirely on the mode of working it up. A raw yolk of egg, when properly handled, will, when incorporated with as much as a pint of oil, produce a thick cream. Two yolks of eggs to a pint of oil is, however, the average quantity employed. In working up a mayonnaise, the oil and egg should be so thoroughly incorporated that separation of the two ingredients becomes impossible. The yolks, salt, and white pepper are first worked smooth with a wooden spoon, or spatula, in a basin (placed on ice if possible) ; then a few drops of oil and a few of vinegar are added, the stirring continued all the time, and the remainder of oil and vinegar is used up gradually. The mixture will then present a thick, smooth, and creamy appear- ance. The process of stirring is long and somewhat tedious, and if not carefully done the mixture, instead of becoming smooth, will separate or decompose in the very act of stirring. During the warm weather it is much more difficult to prepare a mayonnaise ; this is overcome by placing the basin in which the153 SA UCES. sauce is stirred on ice. The following are the exact ingredients and quantities necessary to produce a perfect sauce ; If found too thick, dilute with a little raw cream or cold water. Cold bechamel is sometimes used as a foundation for mayonnaise. Mayonnaise Cream. 2 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful of French mustard, J teaspoonful salt, a pinch of pepper, i tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, about f pint best salad oil, 2-3 tablespoonfuls of cream. Put the yolks into a basin, add the mustard (raw, not mixed), salt and pepper ; stir quickly with a wooden spoon, adding, drop by drop at hrst and gradually more, the salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of vinegar ; the vinegar is added when the sauce appears too thick. By stirring well, the mixture should become the con- sistency of very thick cream. At last add the raw cream, stirring all the while. A little cold rvater may be added if found too thick. In hot weather the basin in which the mayonnaise is made should be placed in a vessel of crushed ice. Lemon Mayonnaise {Mayonnaise an Citron). 2 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, 2 lemons, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls nut oil, i gill cream, salt, pepper, paprika. Put the egg yolks into a basin with half a teaspoonful of salt, stir with a wooden spoon and add drop by drop the oil; when creamy, add the vinegar and gradually the cream, then incorporate the lemon juice (strained), continue to stir the mixture for another hfteen minutes, then add the seasoning and a little grated lemon- rind. Lastly, stir in a dessertspoonful of boiling water. It is then ready to serve. Note.—The mixing of above ingredients should be done on the ice or in a very cool place, else it is apt to curdle. Sauce Mayonnaise tomatee. To a pint of well prepared and fairly stiff mayonnaise add half as much tomato puree or cold tomato sauce. Mix gradually, and season to taste. Sauce Marseillaise. I lb. ripe tomatoes, i carrot, i small onion, i oz. raw ham, 2 oz. butter, I oz. flour, I bay-leaf, i pint chicken stock, i oz. bacon (fat), salt, pepper. Remove the stems of the tomatoes, cut them in halves, cross- ways, take out the pips and mash up, and put them in a stewpan with the stock and vegetables ; the latter should be washed, peeled, and cut into slices. Cook slowly until tender. Cut up the bacon and ham, put them in a stewpan with i oz. of butter, stir over the hre for hve minutes ; add the flour, and cook long enough to blend the flour (do not let it get brown) ; now add the tomato puree, the bay-leaf, the stock, and the chicken. Allow to cook together 2 yolks of eggs I teaspoonful pepper ^ teaspoonful salt I pint oil Vinegar, i teaspoonful to every 8 tablespoonfuls of oil154 THE HEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. slowly for twenty minutes. Season with pepper and salt, and a pinch of aromatic seasoning. Pass through a tammy ^ cloth or hair sieve, heat up again, and whisk in the rest of the j butter. Marinade Sauce, or Marinade Cuite. J pint stock, -J gill vinegar, i tablespoonful flour, i oz. butter, i small carrot, 3 shallots, thyme, i clove, parsley, bay-leaf, chives, flour. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the sliced carrot, sliced shallots, a sprig of thyme, and the clove. Fry a little, then add a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, some chives, and a tablespoonful of flour. • Stir over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with the vinegar and stock, season with pepper and salt. Allow to simmer for half an hour, strain or pass through a tammy cloth, and serve as required for releves, roast or braised game, etc. Mint Sauce [Sauce a la Menthe). 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped green mint, i dessertspoonful brown sugar, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Put the mint into a basin, add the sugar and pour over a little warm water, sufficient to dissolve the sugar, cover and let cool, then add the vinegar, stir well', and pour into a sauce-boat. Sauce Mirabeau. I gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), gill fish stock, small onion, ^ small carrot, J gill Burgundy wine, ^ gill mushroom liquor, i-J- oz. fresh butter, chopped tarragon, chervil, and parsley. Prepare the fish stock from the bones and trimmings of the trout. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and mince both ; fry them in a little butter to a nice colour, drain off the butter, add the wine, cover and let boil quickly for a few minutes. Add the mush- room liquor and the stock, reduce to about half the original quan- tity, then stir in the espagnole sauce, and let simmer for about five minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan, add the remainder of the butter, about a teaspoonful (in all) of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, also a few drops of lemon-juice and seasoning if found necessary. Whisk over the fire until thoroughly hot [not boiling), and use as directed. Sauce Mornay. J pint bechamel (p. 142) sauce, J gill mushroom or Italienne sauce (p. 151), ^ gill cream, ^ oz. meat glaze or 2 tablespoonfuls half-glaze of chicken stock, I oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i oz. fresh butter. Put the bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce it well, then add the Italian or mushroom sauce. Let it boil up, skim well, and add the cream. Place the stewpan in a vessel of boiling water, stir the sauce with a whisk, adding the grated cheese, butter, and meat glaze ; work in these ingredients little by little, and stir or whisk till the sauce has acquired a creamy texture. Do not allow the sauce to boil again. This sauce is usually served with fish—in which case a little fish essence should also be incorporated before serving.Sauce [Mousseline {White Moussclinc Sauce). I gill cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 3 crushed long xieppercorns, i oz. butter, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Put cream, egg-yolks, and pepper in a stewpan, place this in a bain-marie half filled with boiling water, beat up with a whisk for a short time, then add gradually little pieces of butter ; stir all the while, but do not add any more butter until each piece has been thoroughly worked in and is absorbed in the sauce. The sauce when finished will have the appearance of a frothy cream, and should then be passed through a tammy cloth. Just before serving finish off with a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a grate of nutmeg should be added during the process of whisking. Served with souffles, fillets of veal or fowl, asparagus or artichokes. Sauce Mousseline Verte {Green Mousseline Sauce, cold). I gill mayonnaise, + gill cold bechamel sauce {p. 142), i tablespoonful of pickled parsley, a few sprigs each of tarragon, chervil, and burnet, 2 table- spoonfuls of cooked spinach, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 2 anchovy fillets, I gill of cream. Wash and pick the green herbs, steep them in boiling water for a few minutes, drain well, pound in a mortar with the spinach, and rub through a fine sieve. Pound the yolks of eggs and anchovy fillets, mix with the green puree, add the cream, and rub the whole through a sieve. Dilute with mayonnaise and bechamel sauce, add a little seasoning and a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. Melted Butter Sauce {Sauce Anglaisc). I oz. fresh butter, J oz. Hour, | pint cold water. Put the butter in a saucepan, when melted stir in the flour (sifted). Cook for a few moments whilst stirring, add gradually \ pint of cold water, continue to stir till the sauce boils, and allow to cook for at least ten minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste, and strain if necessary. Mustard Sauce {Sauce Moutarde, for Herrings or Mackerel). I oz. butter, oz. patent cornflour, ^ oz. flour, i dessertspoonful of Knglish mustard, gill vinegar, ^ pint fish stock. J gill cream, pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the cornflour and flour, and blend over the fire without browning. Add the fish stock and bring it to the boil, cook for ten minutes. Mix the mustard with enough vinegar to make a smooth paste, stir this into the sauce with the cream, boil up again. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and add a little more vinegar just before serving. Sauce Normande {Normandy Sauce). 2\ OZ. butter, i oz. tiour, white stock, fish liquor, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon- juice. Melt i-|- oz. of butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with about a pint of white stock and a little fish licpior. Allow to boil for ten minutes, skim well, and finish with a liaison of 2 yolks of eggs. Stir in gradually the re- mainder of the fresh butter, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Whisk well aud pass the sauce through a fine strainer or tammy cloth.156 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Orange Sauce {Sauce a VOrange). 2 shallots, I orange, lemon-juice, raw ham, cayenne, 2 glasses port wine, meat gravy. Chop the shallots and put them into a small stewpan with the rind of the orange, quite free from the white or pith, and a little chopped lean of raw ham and cayenne pepper ; moisten with the port wine, and a little meat gravy ; set the essence to simmer gently on the lire for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little lemon-juice, and pass it through a silk sieve. Sauce au Jus d’Orange. -V pint espagnole sauce, | pint good stock or gravy, i orange, lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful red-currant jelly. Peel the orange thinly, and cut the peel into julienne strips, put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, boil for hve minutes, and drain on a sieve. Put in a stewpan the espagnole sauce, stock or roast meat gravy, and half the juice of the orange. Allow all to reduce to half its quantity, strain, and add the orange- peel, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, the red-currant jelly, season with pepper and salt, boil up again, and serve with roast wild duck, wild boar or other game. Onion Sauce {Sauce aux Oignons). 2 onions, i oz. butter, -I- oz. flour, -J- pint milk, nutmeg. Peel the onions, cut them in halves and blanch them, drain and cook them in salted water till tender, drain again and chop hnely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, cook a little and add gradually the milk ; stir till it boils and put in the chopped onions, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, and cook for ten minutes longer. Note.—When Brown onion sauce is required, mince the onions and fry a light brown colour in butter, drain off the butter and add half a pint of brown sauce, cook for fifteen minutes Oyster Sauce (see “ Sauce aux Huitres,” p. 150). Parsley Sauce {Sauce Persil).—Prepare half a pint of bechamel, or other white sauce, to this add i dessertspoonful of finely chopped and washed parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice. Sauce Perigueux {Truffle Sauce). I gill brown sauce, i gill tomato sauce, i glass sherry, i teaspoonful anchovy sauce, I oz. butter, 3 truffles. Chop finely three large truffles, put them in a small stewpan with the sherry, reduce to one-half (covered) ; add the brown and tomato sauce (p. i6o) ; boil for a few minutes, finish with a tea- spoonful of anchovy essence and the butter. Sauce Piquante {Sharp Sauce). t onion or 4 shallots, 3 gherkins (chopped), i tablespoonful chopped capers, I gill vinegar, teaspoonful anchovy essence, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, |- pint espagnole sauce (p. 148). Peel and chop the onion or shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar, bay-leaf, and thyme, cover, and reduce to half the157 SJ UCES. quantity of liquor. Strain into another stewpan, add the chopped gherkins and capers, moisten with the sauce, add the anchovy essence, boil a few minutes, and serve. Sauce Pompadour. 2 oz. butter, 1 pint velontee (p. 161) or allemaudc (p. 141) sauce, i shallot, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 yolks of eggs, J gill cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Peel and chop the shallot, and mince finely the mushrooms. Blend the shallot in an ounce of butter, but do not let it take colour ; put in the mushrooms and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the sauce, stir until it boils, skim well, and let it cook a few minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and parsley, stir into the sauce, and season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg ; finish with the remaining ounce of butter, but do not let it boil again. Keep in the bain-marie until required for serving. Sauce Princesse. 1 j- gill of bechamel or veloutee sauce, 2 tablespooiifuls French wine vinegar, i oz. fresh butter, i lemon, i teaspoonful of grated horse-radish, nutmeg, 8 peppercorns, parsley. Put the grated rind of the lemon and the horse-radish in a small stewpan with the French wine vinegar, add a little grated nutmeg and the crushed white peppercorns, boil for several minutes, then add the bechamel or veloutee sauce. Cook for ten minutes, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Re-heat, season with salt and more pepper, if needed, work in by means of a whisk the butter and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve with any kind of friture of poultry, fish or meat. Sauce Poivrade {Peppey Satice). f pint of espagnole sauce (p. 148), i oz. of butter, small carrot, I- small onion, 18 peppercorns, i bay-leaf, i sprig thyme, 2 cloves, 4- oz. of raw ham or bacon. Mince the onion and carrot, cut the ham or bacon into small pieces ; fry the above in the butter for three minutes, add the peppercorns (crushed), herbs, etc. ; skim off the fat, moisten with the sauce, and boil for ten minutes or longer ; skim, strain, and serve as required. Sauce Rouennaise. 2 shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, i glass claret, i pint demi-glace sauce, 2 or 3 ducks’ livers. Infuse the finely chopped shallots, bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme in the glass of claret. Add the demi-glace sauce and the finely chopped ducks’ livers, and let reduce, season to taste, and strain. Sauce Raifort, chaude [Horse-yadish Sauce, hot). 2 tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish, 4- pint bechamel (p. 142) sauce, | tea- spoonful castor sugar, pinch cayenne and salt, teaspoonful vinegar. Moisten the horse-radish with the vinegar, mix with the sauce, and boil up whilst stirring. Add the sugar and cayenne, allow it to simmer a few minutes, taking great care that the sauce does not curdle ; if found too thick, add a tablespoonful of cream or milk. Served with hot roast beef, etc.58 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Creme de Raifort, froide {Hoyse-radish Cream, cold) i\ oz. grated horse-radish, i gill thick cream, i tablespoonful white wine vinegar, i teaspoonful castor sugar, teaspoonful powdered mustard, } saltspoonful salt, a pinch of cayenne. Put "the horse-radish in a basin, add the sugar, mustard, salt, and cayenne ; moisten with the vinegar. Stir in gradually the cream, and whisk gently for a few minutes. Serve in a sauce-boat with cold roast beef, etc. Sauce Raifort, fra,pp6e~JTCed Jdgne-radish Sauce). I stick horse-radish, i gill cream orUnilkj^i teaspoonful 'mixed mustard, I teaspoonful castor sugar, 2 teaspoonfulsSimegaTr'''''''''’^^ Grate the horse-radish as finely as possible, put it in a basin, stir in the cream or milk, the vinegar, mustard, and the sugar. Stir well and pour into a sauce-boat. \\’hen milk is used, a tablespoonful of condensed Swiss milk should be mixed with the fresh milk, and the sugar should then be omitted. Freeze till a semi-liquid consistency, serve with trout or other lish. Sauce Reforme {for Cuilets a la Reforme). I gill poivrade sauce, i small glass port wine, i teaspoonful red-currant jelly. This sauce consists of poivrade sauce mixed with port wine and red-currant jelly. Boil well for ten minutes, and strain. The usual Reform garnish, consisting of julienne strips of gherkins, mush- rooms, truffles, hard-boiled white of egg and cooked ox-tongue, is served at the same time. Sauce Remoulade. ^ pint salad oil, 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, i teaspoonful made mustard, tarragon, parsley, buniet, chives, i yolk of egg, castor sugar. Blanch a few leaves of tarragon, parsley, burnet, and chives, drain and chop finely. Put in a basin the yolk of egg with salt and pepper to taste, stir well with a wooden spoon, work in gradually half a pint of salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of tarragon vinegar. About two tablespoonfuls of vinegar is required to half a pint of oil. When the sauce is finished add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a pinch of castor sugar, and the chopped herbs, Sauce Robert. I small onion, | oz, butter. ^ teaspoonful castor sugar, ^ pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), i glass white wine, saltspoonful dry mustard. Peel and mince the onion, fry it in the butter a nut brown, add the mustard, moisten with the wine, and reduce a little. Stir in the espagnole and cook for ten minutes ; season it to taste, and strain, Sauce Ruisseau {Watercress Sauce). bunch watercress, tablespoonful capers, oz. of butter, i gill chicken stock, pint veloutee sauce (p. i6i)or allemande (p. 141), i hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Wash, pick, and blanch the cresses, put them in the mortar with the egg, capers, and butter, pound until fine, and rub through159 SA UCES. a sieve. Put the sauce and stock in a stew-pan, let it boil np together, skim, and reduce a little. Whisk in, by degrees, the green puree. Season to taste with pepper and salt, strain through a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan, and keep hot in a bain-marie until required for serving. Do not allow the sauce to boil again after it has been strained, or else it will become oily, Sauce Russe [Russian Sauce). Chop finely 2 oz. of lean ham, 4 peeled shallots, and fry in butter (about ^ oz.) for a few seconds, then add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a glass of white wine ; cover, and let reduce to about half the quantity. To this add about a pint of veloutee or allemande sauce, and allow to cook gently for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, and add a tablespoonful of finely grated horse-radish, season with cayenne and nutmeg, and pass through a sieve or tammy cloth. Re-heat, stir in a pat of fresh butter and a tea- spo,onful of meat glaze. This sauce is excellent with grilled fish or fillets of beef. Sauce Salmi, or Salmy. I teaspoonful red-currant jelly, pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), i gill of game stock, carcase of cooked game, 2 shallots, i bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, some mushroom trimmings, i glass port wine, i tablespoonful sweet oil. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry in oil a golden colour, add the bay-leaf, thyme, and mushroom trimmings, chop up the carcase of game, and fry a little in fat or butter, drain, and put with the above preparation, add the port wine, cover the stewpan, and cook them for five minutes. Moisten with the stock and sauce. Stir well and let simmer for ten minutes. Skim well, strain or tammy, season to taste, add the red-currant jelly, heat up and serve. Sauce Suedoise [Danish Sauce). I gill mayonnaise, f- gill cream, i teaspoonful of French mustard, 2 table- spoonfuls finely grated horse-radish. Whip the cream, stir in gradually the mayonnaise, grated horse- radish, and mustard ; add a pinch of castor sugar, and a little salt if needed. This sauce is especially suitable for salads, roast game, etc. Sauce Suedoise [hot) [Swedish Sauce).—Make a bechamel or other white sauce, flavour it with grated horse-radish and chilli vinegar, and serve with roast poultry or grilled meats. Sauce Spadacini. I gill white wine, t gill vinegar, 2 shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, 2 sprigs of basil. I teaspoonful crushed mignonette pepper, i tablespoonful white sauce—bechamel (p. 142) or allemande (p. 141), i tablespoonful tomato sauce (p. t6o), i small terrine foie-gras (about 3 oz.) freed from fat, i yolk of egg, I oz. butter, 2 pinches of cayenne. Put the wine, vinegar, shallot (chopped finely), herbs, and peppercorns in a stew'pan, cover, and reduce to one half of its original quantity. Add the two kinds of sauces, boil up, and pass through the tammy. Pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add the yolkTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. i6o of egg and the butter. Rub this throiigh a sieve and incorporate, in small quantities, with the sauce. Whisk the sauce en hain-maric whilst this is being done. Season with a pinch of cayenne, and use as directed. The sauce must not be allowed to boil, and when finished should be similar in consistency to Bcarnaise. Sauce Soubise. 2 onions, i gill white stock, \ pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), white pepper, salt, a pinch sugar. Peel the onions, parboil in salted water, strain, drain, and chop very finely. Return to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the stock and cook till tender. Now add the sauce and reduce to the desired consistency, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of castor sugar. Sauce Supreme. 1 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i pint chicken stock, i small onion, i clove, Pbay- leaf, 3 oz. fresh butter, i tablespoonful cream, i yolk of egg, p lemon. Make a white roux with the butter and flour, and dilute with the chicken stock. Boil up, add the onion, clove, half bay-leaf, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Skim well, and work in the butter, cream, yolk of egg, and the juice of half a lemon. \Vhisk well, and pass through a tammy cloth. Shrimp Sauce [Sauce crevcttes). } pint white fish sauce, pint picked shrimps, vinegar, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, i small blade of mace, i bay-leaf. Boil the shells and heaxls of the shrimps in enough vinegar to cover : to this add a small blade of mace and a bay-leaf. Strain the liquor into the sauce, add the picked shrimps, and boil up. Finish with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and serve with boiled or grilled fish. Sauce Tartare, 2 yolks of eggs, cayenne, mustard, i pint salad oil, P gill tarragon vinegar, bechamel or veloutee sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped gherkins, i tablespoon- ful of chopped capers, i tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of mixed tarragon and chervil finely chopped. Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, place it in a shallow pan containing some crushed ice, add a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; stir well together, and add, gradually, the salad oil and tarragon vinegar. When the sauce is smooth and creamy stir in a good tablespoonful of cold bechamel (p. 142) or veloutee (p. 161) sauce, add the gherkins, capers, parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Do not mix the gherkins, capers, etc., until the sauce is finished, as it is likely to cause the sauce to turn if put in too soon. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added if the sauce is found too thick. Sauce Tomate [Tomato Sauce). i-|- pint stock, I oz. streaky bacon, i oz. butter, i small onion finely chopped, I lb. tomatoes, i oz. flour, peppercorns, herbs, parsley, i oz. fresh butter, castor sugar. Put into a stewpan the butter and onion, fry a little, and add the tomatoes cut into slices. Stir over the fire a little longer, thenSA UCES. i6i add the flour previously mixed with a little cold stock or gravy. Stir the stock in gradually, add a few peppercorns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs and parsley, and allow all to simmer for half an hour. Remove the herbs, rub the sauce through a sieve, return to the stewpan, season with salt, a pinch of castor sugar and pepper, whisk the butter, and serve as required. A tablespoonful of cream can be used instead of butter, but the sauce should not be allowed to boil again after the butter or cream has been added. Sauce Creme de Tomate {Tomato Cream Sauce). 2 oz. butter, i large tomato, i bay-leaf, 6 peppercorns. Cut up the tomato, put in a stewpan, add the bay-leaf, salt, and peppercorns, reduce to half, add a piece of butter, and when drawn pass through a tammy. Return to a small stewpan, and work in remainder of the butter. Do not put near too hot a place, or else it will go oily. Sauce Venitienne. 1 pint allemande (p. 141) or bechamel (p. 142) sauce, i oz. lobster butter (P- 17s). I dessertspoonful meat glaze, the juice of half a lemon, pepper, nutmeg, and salt, i teaspoonful finely-chopped tarragon-leaves. Heat up the sauce, stir in the lobster butter and meat glaze when required for serving, add lemon-juice, sufficient pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt to taste, and, last of all, the chopped tarragon. Sauce Veloutee ( Velvet Sauce). 1 oz. flour, i t oz. butter, i pint of veal stock, I- gill mushroom licpior, t gill of cream, i small bouquet garni (p. 122), 6 peppercorns, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cook the flour and i oz. of butter together without browning, stir in the stock and mushroom liquor, add the bouquet and crushed peppercorns, boil slowly for twenty minutes, stir frequently, and skim. Pass through a sieve or tammy ; keep on the side of the stove, put a few tiny pieces of brrtter on top to keep from forming a skin. Just before using it add the cream. Stir well and let it get thoroughly hot without boiling, season with salt if necessary, a pinch of nutmeg, and about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. The sauce is now ready for use, and will serve as a foundation for any white sauce or as a veloutee by itself. The cream may be omitted if used as a foundation sairce. Sauce Vert-Pre {Green Herb Sauce). 2 shallot,s, 3 oz. butter, 2 large tablespooiifuls white-wine vinegar, pint veloutee (see above) or allemande sauce, a small handful spinach, 6 sprigs of parsley, 2 to 3 sprigs chives, 3 sprigs tarragon, very little chervil, salt and pepper. Peel and chop finely the shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar and i oz. of butter, cover with the lid of the stewpan, and allow to reduce to about half its original quantity. Now add the white sauce (veloutee for preference), and let simmer for a few minutes. Wash, pick, and blanch (parboil) the spinach and re- mainder of herbs ; drain and cool, press out all the water, and LTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. i62 pound in a mortar with about i oz. of butter. Rub this through a fine sieve, and mix it with the sauce as above prepared. Whisk in the remainder of the butter, season to taste, and serve. Sauce Verte glacee [Iced Gyecn Sauce). I medium-sized cucumber, a few sprigs chervil and tarragon (blanched), spinach greening, i dessertspoonful Orleans vinegar, i gill aspic, i gill cream, i|- gill mayonnaise, a pinch of castor sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Peel thinly the cucumber, cut it in half, remove the seed portion, then slice, and cook in slightly salted water till tender. Strain off the water and rub the cucumber through a fine sieve. Chop finely the herbs, and add this and the vinegar, with a little spinach green- ing, to the cucumber puree. Whisk the cream a little, and stir in the above when sufficiently cool. Incorporate by degrees the mayonnaise and the aspic jelly (previously dissolved, but not hot). Stir over the ice with a whisk for a few minutes, season to taste, and fill up an oblong biscuit-tin ; seal it with paper and lid, and place it in a charged ice-cave for if hour. To serve, unmould as usual, cut the shape into neat slices or cubes, and serve with grilled fish or meat, etc. Sauce Valentine.—This sauce is prepared in the same way as “ Sauce Suedoise ” (p. 159), adding a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and substituting the French mustard with half that quantity of English mustard. Sauce Vinaigrette. 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, i teaspoonful made mustard, olive oil, 1 teaspoonful chopped gherkins, i teaspoonful chopped capers, teaspoon- ful chopped parsley, f teaspoonful chopped shallots. Mix in a basin the tarragon vinegar, mustard (French or English), and ^ teaspoonful of salt. To this add 6 or 8 tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, the parsley, shallots, gherkins, and capers. Mix well before serving. Sauce Victoria {for Fish) f lb. fresh butter, 4 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, i table- spoonful lemon-juice, i teaspoonful chilli vinegar, f gill fish stock, oz. lobster butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut the butter into small squares, put half the quantity in a stewpan, place the stewpan in a vessel or large stewpan containing boiling water. Stir in the yolks of eggs by means of a whisk, add lemon-juice, tarragon, and chili vinegar, also the stock reduced to half its quantity. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Finish by whisking in the remainder of the pieces of fresh and the lobster butter. The water in which the stewpan is placed should be kept at boiling point during the process, but on no account must the sauce be allowed to boil Sauce au Vin Blanc {White Wine Sauce). f pint white stock, gill chablis or sauterne, -|- oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon, salt, white pepper, some fish liquor if the sauce be used for fish. Melt I oz. butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with seasoned stock, fish liquor, and wine ; boil up and cook for fifteen163 SA UCES. minutes. Add gradually the remainder of the butter bit by bit, also the yolks of egg, one at a time, season with a little salt, a pinch of mignonette or white pepper, and add a few drops of lemon-juice. Strain through a tammy cloth, and use as sauce for dressed fish, etc. Mostly served with soles, salmon, trout, and whiting. White Fish Sauce. I oz. butter, } oz. flour, i gill milk. 2 tablespoonfuls cream, i small piece of mace, i bay-leaf, J teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper, bones and trimmings of fish. Boil the milk with some fish-bones, bay-leaf, and a tiny piece of mace, together with -f- gill of water. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, add the flour, and stir a few moments over the fire without allowing the flour to take colour. Stir about a gill of milk as above prepared into this, allow it to come to the boil whilst stirring, and let simmer for ten minutes ; take out the bay-leaf and mace and strain, heat up again, add the cream, lemon-juice, and seasoning, and use as directed. Simple White Sauce. I oz. butter, i oz. flour, | pint milk, gill white stock or water, b bay-leaf, salt and white pepper. Melt the butter in a small, saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown ; dilute with the milk, stir till it boils, then add the stock and bay-leaf, and let simmer for at least ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf, season to taste, and strain. Sauce Xavier (Fish Sauce). \ bunch watercress, a few sprigs of fennel, pint milk, fish-bones, essence of fish for which the sauce is prepared, il- oz. butter, oz. flour, seasoning, lemon-juice. Remove the stalks from the cress and fennel, put the leaves in a stewpan with the milk and fish-bones, previously cut into small pieces (add a tiny piece of soda), boil until the leaves are clone. Strain and let cool, put the cooked herbs in a mortar, and pound with half the butter, then rub through a sieve. Cook the flour in the remainder of the butter, without taking colour, dilute with the milk in which the cress, etc., have boiled. Stir until it boils, add the fish essence, and let the whole simmer for ten minutes. Strain, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the green puree, and cook a few minutes longer. Season with a few drops of lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, add a little cream or stock if found too thick, and keep in the bain-marie until required. Sauce Zingara. Reduce half a gill port wine with a gill tomato puree, add a gill “ Salmi sauce,’’and reduce with half a gill of rich stock ; then strain on to a stewpan containing finely-shredded ham, tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles, about i dessertspoonful of each, and a few very fine shreds of orange rind. Boil up for about five minutes and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 164 ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER SAUCES. Sauce a I’Amiral {Admiral Sauce).—A white sauce (veloutee or allemande) with chopped capers, parsley, lemon-rind and juice, and anchovy essence to flavour. — Albufera,—Rich white sauce (supreme) flavoured with meat extract or glaze. — Americaine {American).—Tomato sauce blended with lobster butter (whisked in). — Avignonnaise {Avignonese Sauce).—Consists of bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan, and chopped parsley, flavoured with shallots and garlic. — Ayola.—A mayonnaise flavoured with crushed garlic and lemon-juice. — Bartarde Anglaise.—English melted butter sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. — Bartarde (cold).—Bearnaise, flavoured with fish essence (stock) enriched with tomato puree and anchovy butter. -- Bavaroise.—Hollandaise (Dutch) sauce, enriched with whipped cream and crayfish butter. Beefsteak Sauce.—A light brown sauce made of chopped onion, parsley, meat glaze, and butter, flavoured with sherry and lemon-juice. Sauce Beurre Cremeuse.—Creamed butter sauce ; beaten egg-yolk and butter stirred into boiling stock. — Bohemienne {Bohemian Satice).—A white sauce made with fresh breadcrumbs, milk-white stock, butter, and grated horse-radish ; seasoned with pepper and salt. — Bonne Femme.—A white sauce made with finely chopped onion and shallots, blended in butter and cooked in fish stock, thickened with egg-yolks and whipped cream, seasoned and flavoured with lemon-juice. - Bonnefoy.—A light bordelaise sauce, into which fresh butter, chopped parsley, and beef-marrow are incorporated. - Bourguignonne {Burgundy Sauce).—A brown sauce composed of espagnole sauce, finely minced onions and parsley reduced in Burgundy wine ; flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace. — Bretonne (Brown Haricot Bean Sauce).—A brown onion sauce thickened with a little haricot puree. - Bulgare.—Cold tomato sauce, blended with finely shredded cooked celery. — Byron.—Demi-glace sauce, with a reduction of claret and chopped truffles. — Cambridge (cold).—Mayonnaise, mixed with parsley puree, capers, and anchovy paste, flavoured with mustard. — Canopere.—A hot fish sauce made with fish, court-bouillon, and blond roux, enriched with crayfish butter. — aux Capres brune {Brown Caper Sauce).—A brown sauce with coarsely chopped capers, seasoned with nutmeg and black pepper.165 S.4 UCES. Sauce Carlet.—A wliite cream-like sauce, made with fish stock, white wine, butter, flour, and egg-yolks, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sugar. — Castelaine.—Demi-glace with Spanish pimiento and finely chopped ham, flavoured with lemon-juice. — Cazanova.—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise, finely shredded truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. — Chantilly.—Well reduced bechamel blended with whipped cream. — Choron.—Bearnaise sauce blended with tomato puree. — Crevettes {Shrimp Sauce).—Pink fish sauce with picked shrimps. — Cornichons {Gherkin Sauce).—Poivrade or brown pepper sauce mixed with finely chopped gherkins. Curry Sauce.—A pale brown or fawn-coloured sauce, made with veloutee sauce, finely chopped onion fried in butter, and curry powder, well reduced and strained. Sauce a la Creme {Cream Sauce).—Bechamel or supreme sauce finished with fresh cream as liaison. — Cussy.—Espagnole sauce, blended with tumet of pigeon, reduced with sherry. — Czarine.—Demi-glace sauce with chopped gherkins, caper, and Ifleached raisins. — Daumont.—Fish sauce made like Hollandaise, using oyster liquor, egg-yolks, lemon-juice, with sliced oysters, 'mushrooms, and truffles. — Demi-Deuil.—Veloutee sauce, blended with cream and mixed with finely chopped truffles. — Demidoff.—Mad^re sauce with sliced truffles. — Duxelle.—A brown sauce with finely chopped truffles, mushrooms, cooked ham, parsley, and shallots, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with lemon-juice. — Duglere.—Tomato sauce blended with bechamel and fish essence, finished with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Duchesse.—A white sauce, with finely chopped white mushrooms, cooked ox-tongue, and fresh butter as liaison. — Diplomate.—A fish sauce consisting of bechamel sauce, lobster coral, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. — Echalote {Shallot Sauce).—A brown gravy or demi-glace, with finely minced shallots (blended in butter), lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. — a I’Essence {Game or Salmi Sauce).—A brown sauce with essence of duck or game, carefully blended and well reduced with port wine. — Epicure {Epicurean Sauce).—A white fish sauce, consisting of a rich white sauce, mixed with a little essence of crayfish, chopped truffles, chilli vinegar, and cayenne pepper. — Estragon {Tarragon Sauce).—A thin brown sauce flavoured with tarragon-leaves. Served with poultry or quenelles.166 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce Fermiere [Farmhouse Sauce).—A French sauce, consisting of espagnole sauce, with hnely chopped ham, parsley, and capers. Usually served with game. — Flamande [Flemish Sauce).—Sauce for fish, made with melted butter sauce, thickened with yolks of eggs, and flavoured with prepared mustard. — Fleurette.—A white sauce, served with fish or vegetables, made from flour, butter, and fleurette (this is the name applied to the first skimming of milk, which is very sweet) ; the sauce is seasoned with salt and pepper. — Financiere [Financiere Sauce).—A very rich brown sauce (madere), well reduced with sherry, meat extract, and mushroom liquor. The garniture of truffles, small mushrooms, cocks’ combs, etc., is added when the sauce is ready for serving. — Francois.—Tomato sauce reduced with white wine, with chopped mushrooms finished with butter. — Fenouil [Fennel Sauce).—A white sauce mixed with finely chopped fennel. Served with boiled or grilled fish. — Genevoise [Geneva Sauce).—A brown fish sauce, flavoured with madeira wine, garlic, and anchovy essence ; and finished with fresh butter liaison. — Gibier [Game Sauce).—A brown sauce, flavoured with certain kinds of game essence (fumet de gibier) reduced with red wine. Gloucester Sauce.—A cold sauce for fish or salads, prepared with mayon- naise sauce, cream, chilli vinegar, chopped tarragon, French mustard, and cayenne pepper. Gooseberry Sauce [Groseille Verte).—Gooseberry puree, blended with syi'up, with or without cream, served with grilled mackerel or roast goose. Sauce Gourmet—A brown fish sauce mixed with lobster butter, chopped prawns, arul truffles. — Grand Veneur.—Espagnole reduced with blood of game, hare, etc., highly spiced with pejjper. — Garibaldi.—A brown sauce for meat or fish, flavoured with a sus- picion of pounded garlic, capers, curry powder, mustard, anchovy paste, and chilli vinegar. (Careful blending of flavours essential.) — Generate.—A rich brown sauce made with madeira or demi-glace as foundation, lemon-juice, tarragon vinegar, Seville orange-rinds finely chopped, and sherry flavoured, with a suspicion of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, clove, shallot, mace, salt, and pepper. (Careful blending of flavours essential.) — Granville.—White wine sauce, mixed with chopped mushrooms, shrimps, and truffles. — Gribiche.—Mayonnaise mixed with mustard and finely chopped herbs. — Hachis or Hachee.—Brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, capers, and gherkins.SJ UCES. \6y Sauce Kessoise { Hessiaji Sauce).—A kind of cold horse-radish sauce, made with sour cream, grated horse-radish, and fresh breadcrumbs (previously soaked in milk), seasoned with sugar and salt ; served with roast beef or steaks. — Hollandaise verte {Green Dutch Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce mixed with young ])arsley-leaves, boiled, rubbed through a sieve, and pounded. -— Holstein.—A white sauce for fish, made with bechamel sauce, fish stock and white wine, well reduced ; thickened with egg-yolks and flavoured with lemon-juice and nutmeg. — Horly (or Orly).—A supreme (or other rich white sauce) blended with tomato puree, meat extract or glaze, and fresh butter. — Hure de Sanglier {Boar's Head Sauce).—A cold sauce, prepared with bitter orange-juice and the finely chopped rind, sugar, red-currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. This sauce is useful for almost every kind of cold meat, and will keep for some time if bottled. — au Jambon (Ham Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely shredded or chopped ham, chopped chives, shallots, and parsley, flavoured with lemon-juice. Suitably served with white meats, veal, pork or poultry. Kari.—White sauce flavoured with curry and cream. — Livournaise {Leghorn Sauce).—A cold salad sauce prepared with pounded anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper, and nutmeg. — Lyonnaise {Lyons Sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce, with fine shreds of Spanish onions (previously fried in butter) ; finished with meat glaze and lemon-juice. — Maintenon.—White onion puree thickened with egg-yolk and veloutee sauce. — Maltaise {Maltese Sauce).—Veloutee sauce with chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, diluted with sherry; flavoured with lemon-juice and finely shredded orange-rind. — Marchand de Vin.—Demi-glace, reduced with fried shallots, claret, and meat glaze. — Marguery.—White fish sauce blended with oyster puree and finished with cream. — Mariniere.—White wine sauce, with finely chopped herbs, shallots, and fish essence. — Matelote, blanche {White Matelote Sauce).—A white oyster sauce with mushroom-juice, white wine, and button mushrooms ; flavoured with savoury herbs. — Matelote, brune {Brown Matelote Sauce).—A red-wine sauce with fried button onions and button mushrooms ; flavoured with fine herbs and anchovy essence. — Malaga {Port Wine Sauce).—A brown sauce prepared with meat glaze, port wine, and lemon-juice ; flavoured with shallots and cayenne. — Maximilian {Maximilian Sauce).—Tartare sauce, with tomato pulp, and finely chopped tarragon-leaves to flavour.i68 THE NEW_CENTVRY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce Medicis.—Bearnaise flavoured with tomato puree and very little red wine. — Melba.—Chopped shallots cooked in chablis, reduced in tomato sauce, and thickened with egg-yolks, finished like hollandaise. — Menthe {Mint Sauce).—Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint-leaves, and sufficient moist sugar to flavour. — Miroton.—Demi-glace blended with finely minced, blanched, and fried onions, tomato sauce, vinegar, and mustard to flavour. — aux Moules {Mussel Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels cut into dice. ■— a la Moelle de Boeuf {Beef Marrow Sauce).—Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef-marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, a little vinegar, and red pepper. — Nantua.—Bechamel reduced with fish essence and finished with cray- fish butter. — Napolitaine {Neapolitan Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horse-radish ; flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves. — Nicoise.—Demi-glace blended with concentrated Italian tomato puree. — Noisette {Nut Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce mixed with baked, pounded, and sieved hazel nuts, finished with double cream. — Norvegienne {Norwegian Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with hard- boiled egg-yolks (which are passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil, and vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs. — Nonpareille {Nonpareil Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce worked up with crayfish or lobster butter ; mixed with chopped lobster meat, mush- rooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles, all finely chopped. •— aux Olives {Olive Sauce).—A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with a little lemon-juice. Served with ducks, fowls, and beef. — aux (Eufs {Egg Sauce).—A white sauce with finely chopped hard- boiled eggs. — aux Oignons {Onion Sauce).—A white sauce with finely chopped boiled onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Served with boiled rabbit or mutton. Brown onion sauce is made, the onions fried in butter and cooked in demi-glace or poivrade sauce. — a I’Oseille {Sorrel Sauce).—A thin gravy sauce (demi-glace) with finely chopped blanched sorrel-leaves. Served with braised or boiled fowls, etc. — Parisienne {Parisian Sauce).—A rich brown sauce with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter. Serve with entrecotes, steaks or fillets of beef. — Paprika.—Veloutee or allemande sauce highly seasoned with paprika or red Hungarian pepper. — Pauvre Homme {Poor Man’s Sauce).—A plain brown sauce, con- taining some tomato ketchup and anchovy fish essence. Suitable as a fish sauce.SA UCES. 69 Sauce Persillade.—A kind of vinaigrette sauce prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and chopped savoury herbs, served cold with hsh, vegetables or salad. — Polonaise {Polish Sauce).—Veloutee sauce blended with sour cream, grated horse-radish, finely chopped fennel, and lemon-juice. Served with cutlets and steaks. — Portugaise.—Tomato sauce diluted with well-redirced veal gravy, flavoured with onion, blanched, and fried with garlic. — aux Pommes ( Apple Sauce).—A kind of apple pulp, slightly sweetened, to be served with roast pork, ducks or geese. — Piment.—Demi-glace sauce blended with tomato puree, highly seasoned with chopped pimiento and cayenne. — Prince de Galles [Prince of Wales Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with chopped yolks of hard-boiled eggs and yolks of raw eggs, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs, and prepared French mustard. Served with grilled or fried fish, or grilled a la Tartare. — Provencals.—Espagnole sauce with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and choirped parsley ; flavoured with lemon-juice, garlic, and a little cayenne pepper. — Ravigote, chaude {Ravigote Sauce, hot).—A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with white wine vinegar, finished with a liaison of butter and cream and fine herbs ; flavour. — Ravigote, froid [Ravigote Sauce, cold).—Mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening. — a la Reine-Marie [Queen Mary Sauce).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy thickened with espagnole, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies. Served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. — Sauce Regence.—Demi-glace or gravy sauce, reduced with white wine and truffle essence, flavoured with finely minced and blended onions. — Ricardo.—A brown sauce prepared from the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, finished with a little meat glaze. Served with game, dishes, etc. — Riche.—Hollandaise enriched with lobster butter or spawn, with dice shapes of truffles and crayfish tails. — Richelieu.—A brown game sauce with madeira wine, meat extract, and finely chopped truffles. — Romaine [Roman Sauce).—A brown sauce lor fish, prepared with espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine seeds [pignoli), moistened with a little white wine vinegar, all pressed through a sieve before serving. — a la Seville.—Reduced demi-glace sauce mixed with orange-juice and finely cut rind of a Seville orange. Served with roast or stewed ducks or game. — Sicilienne {Sicilian Sauce).—Espagnole sauce reduced with marsala wine, seasoned with cayenne pepper ; thin rings of onions fried in blitter are mixed with the sauce just before serving. Served with beefsteaks, roast fillets of beef, etc.70 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sauce Soyer.—A white fish sauce fiavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon-juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream. — Stragotte.—A kind of rich game sauce, with tomato pulp and madeira wine, flavoured with soup vegetables, celery and parsley roots, shallots, cloves, and mace. Generally served with Italian dishes. — Texienne (Texas Sauce).—A kind of curry sauce with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, finished with fresh butter as liaison. Served with meat or fish dishes. — Tortue (Turtle Sauce).—A brown sauce made from turtle stock, with finely chopped shallots, a little anchovy paste, lemon-juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon-rind ; seasoned with very little cayenne pepper. — Universelle ( Universal Sauce).—A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, etc., prepared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies. — Valoise.—Finely chopped shallots reduced in white wine, mixed with meat extract, egg-yolks, chopped parsley, cream, and butter; whisked in bain-marie ; seasoned with salt and Worcester sauce. — Villeroi.—A white sauce with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, finished with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. — Vincent.—Mayonnaise mixed with green herb puree (tarragon, chervil, chives, and parsley). — Viennoise.—Poivrade (pepper sauce) blended with lemon and orange- juice, reduced and finished with cream. — Verjus.—Espagnole sauce with mashed unripe green grapes, or goose- berries cooked in stock, reduced with a little sherry, and finished with fresh butter. Served with roast duck or pork. —York (Yorkshire 5fluc£j).—Consists of espagnole sauce, finely shredded orange-rind, red-currant jelly, port wine, orange-juice, and a little ground cinnamon (careful blending essential). Served with boiled ham or pickled pork. SWEET SAUCES (SAUCES SUCREES). Curaqoa or Maraschino Sauce. I oz. fresh butter, -t oz. flour, i gill milk, i oz. sugar, i whole egg, tea- spoonful vanilla essence, -t oz. finely chopped pistachios, oz. finely chopped lemon-peel, i tablespoonful red curayoa or maraschino. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, and blend over the fire for a few seconds. Moisten slowly with the milk, add the sugar, and stir well over the fire ; beat up the egg and add also ; strain the sauce into another saucepan, let it get hot, but not boiling ; stir in the lemon-peel, pistachios, and cura^oa or maraschino, and serve as directed. Brandy Sauce (Sauce aii Cognac). 4 oz. loaf sugar, i oz. cornflour, gill brandy, i pint water. Put the sugar and rather more than a gill and a half of water in a copper stewpan, boil a few minutes, take off the scum, andSA UCES. 171 reduce to a thin syrup. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, stir into the boiling syrup, and whisk over the lire for about live minutes. Add the brandy, strain, and serve hot with the pudding. Sauce au Kirsch.—Proceed the same as above directed, but substitute gill of kirschwasser for the brandy. Sirop au Punch [Rum Savice). 4. oz. loaf sugar, i orange, 1 tablespoonful vanilla essence, t gill best rum, 1- gill water. Rub the sugar on the orange-rind to obtain the flavour of half the orange. Put this into a stewpan, add the rum, light it, and cover quickly : let it infuse for a few seconds over the Are, then add the water, vanilla essence, and the piece of the orange, and boil for live minutes ; strain, and serve hot with the pudding. Note.—If preferred, brandy or kirschwasser may be used in place of rum, the sauce is then called “ au Cognac ” or “ au Kirsch.” Sabayon au Madere.—Put 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, and i- gill cream in a stewpan, place it in a bain-marie or vessel of boiling water over the Are, stir with a whisk until frothy, then add I gill Madeira wine, whisk it until it begins to thicken and is of light appearance, pour over the pudding, and serve. Strawberry Sauce {Sauce aux Praises). The pulp of 8 large ripe strawberries, i glass of Sauterne or Chablis, i egg, r oz. sugar. Put the fruit pulp, wine, and sugar in a small stewpan, whisk over a moderate lire until almost boiling, then add the egg ; con- tinue to whisk until quite frothy ; on no account allow it to boil. Serve as soon as ready. Apricot Sauce {Sauce a VAbricot). 3 oz. apricot marmalade, i gill sherry or 1 gill brandy, i gill water, r oz. butter. Put the marmalade in a stewpan, and let dissolve with the water and butter. Remove from the Are, add the sherry or brandy, boil up again, strain, and use as required. A liaison of one dessert- spoonful of cornflour added to the above will improve the appear- ance for cooking purposes. A little sugar may be added if found necessary. Orange Sauce {Sauce a 1’Orange). 2 yolks of eggs, i small orange, 2 oz. castor sugar, pint milk, 1 glass cura90a liqueur. Boil up the milk and sugar, add the rind of orange finely grated, the tablespoonful of orange-juice, stir in the yolks of eggs, beat well over the fire with a small whisk. When the sauce begins to thicken, place in the bain-marie or a vessel containing boiling water, add the liqueur, and continue to whisk for ten minutes ; the sauce is then ready for serving. Chocolate Sauce {Sauce ati Chocolat). 4 oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. icing sugar, 3 parts of a pint of water, I oz. fecule or creme de riz, i teaspoonful vanilla essence, i tablespoonful of brandy.172 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Put the chocolate, sugar, and water in a saucepan ; stir over the hre until it boils. Mix the fecule or creme de riz with an extra gill of cold water, add it to the chocolate, bring it again to the boil, and let simmer for hve minutes. Pass through a tammy or napkin, return to the saucepan, add the brandy and vanilla essence, and keep hot until required. Sweet Mousseline Sauce. 3 yolks of eggs, 2 whites of eggs, gill cream, i-| oz. castor sugar, i wine- glassful maraschino. Put all the above ingredients into a small stewpan, beat it with a whisk, stand the pan in a bain-marie or a large vessel three parts full of boiling water. Stir until it becomes creamy, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with hot sweet puddings, etc. Lemon Sauce [Sauce Citron). -I pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, oz. cornflour, I- lemon. Put the yolks of eggs in a small saucepan, beat up well, and add the castor sugar, cornflour, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix thoroughly, and work in slowly the boiling milk. Stir with a whisk over the fire until the sauce acquires the desired consistency, strain, and serve as directed. Caramel Sauce. 1 oz. loaf sugar, ^ pint syrup, vanilla, i dessertspoonful arrowroot, cream or milk. Put the loaf sugar into a copper pan and cook it to a light brown colour, pour the syrup in quickly, flavour with vanilla pod or essence, and reduce a little. About five minutes before serving incorporate the arrowroot, previously mixed with a little cold milk or cream. Boil while stirring for a few minutes, then strain, and serve. Coffee Sauce [Sauce au Cafe). 2 oz. raw coffee berries, syrup, i dessertspoonful arrowroot or cornflour, I small glass brandy or kirsch. Roast the coffee berries in a pan over a quick hre till of a chestnut brown colour. Then pound them in a mortar. Boil half a pint of water and pour over the coffee. Cover, and let it infuse for some minutes. Now strain and sweeten with plain syrup. Mix the arrowroot or cornhour with the glass of brandy or kirsch. Add this to the coffee. Let simmer hve minut s, and serve. Claret Sauce [Sauce au Vin rouge). IJ gill claret, i oz. loaf sugar, cinnamon, lemon, i dessertspoonful cornflour. Put in a stewpan the claret, loaf sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and a slice of lemon. Boil up, and add a dessertspoonful of Brown & Poison’s cornflour mixed with a tablespoonful of cold water. Cook for ten minutes, strain, and serve. Cornflour Sauce. I tablespoonfnl Brown & Poison’s cornflour, -I pint milk, i pat fresh butter, oz. loaf sugar, lemon-rind or vanilla pod. Boirup the milk with the butter, loaf sugar, and the thin rind of half a lemon or an inch of vanilla pod. Mi.x the cornflour withSAUCES. 173 a little cold milk in a basin, and pour on it the hot milk, return to the saucepan, boil up, and cook for eight minutes. Vanilla Sauce [Sauce a la Vanille).—Proceed in the same manner as above directed, omitting the lemon-rind and using vanilla pod in its place. A little cream may be added just before serving. Raspberry Sauce [Sauce aux Frainboises). I gill raspberry pulp, i oz. sugar, i tablespoonful cornflour, milk or cream, rum or brandy. Heat up the raspberry pulp (or raspberry jam) with the sugar. Mix the cornflour with milk, cream, or water, and stir into the above. Boil for eight minutes, strain, and add rum or brandy to taste. Strawberry Sauce [Cold). I gill strawberry pulp, i oz. castor or iciug sugar, i dessertspoonful corn- flour, I tablespoonful sherry, i tablespoonful cream. Boil the strawberry pulp with the sugar. Mi.x the cornflour with a tablespoonful of sherry and stir in the above. Cook for eight minutes, strain, add a tablespoonful of cream, and serve. Marmalade Sauce. oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, i tablespoonful marmalade, 1 oz. castor sugar, the juice of half a lemon, f pint water, i tablespoonful sherry. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water in a saucepan, add to this remainder of above-named ingredients, and place on the lire, stir till it boils and cook for ten minutes, then strain. Sweet Chaud-froid Sauce. t- oz. gelatine, i gill cream or milk, flavouring, whipped cream. Soak the gelatine in cold water, strain and dissolve in a saucepan with the cream or milk, reduce a little whilst stirring, and add the desired flavouring, such as fruit pulp, vanilla, kirsch, maraschino or rum. Cook for a few minutes, strain, and add a little whipped cream, stir in the ice till nearly cold, and use for coating fruit : peaches, pears, apricots, apples, etc. Sweet Melted Butter Sauce. I oz. fresh butter, -J- oz. flour, i f gill of milk, i tlessertspoonful castor sugar, a lew drops of vanilla essence. Dissolve the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and stir over the fire for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown ; then add by degrees the milk, stir till it boils, add the sugar, and cook for ten minutes. Just before serving add vanilla cream.174 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XIV. FLAVOURING OR COMPOUND BUTTERS (BEURRES COMPOSES), FORCEMEATS, ETC. Flavouring butters are used for numerous culinary purposes ; they were originally introduced for imparting a specially desired flavour to sauces, and for this purpose they are still largely used on the Continent. They are also very convenient and useful to serve with grilled meat and grilled hsh, for sandwiches and toasts. The taste for hors-d’oeuvre and savouries has increased considerably during the past few years, both in this country and abroad. Flavouring butters or heiirres composes, as they are termed in kitchen French, have been largely introduced in many other preparations besides those above named. They are used under the titles hors-d’oeuvre and savouries. They have also proved eminently satisfactory when used for sauces, i.e. “ compound sauces.” Flavouring butter is added to sauces at the last moment before being served, the object being to give a sauce the requisite fresh-butter flavour, which is deemed most essential to a well prepared sauce, as it imparts at the same time the appropriate and distinctive aroma of the condiment from which the butter obtains its name. Most cooks are aware that besides the use of these butters for sauces there are many other ways in which they can be employed, for they are eminently suitable for all kinds of sandwiches and for dainty, savoury croutes ; the addition of a nicely blended butter makes a wonderful improve- ment both in appearance and flavour to such dishes. Several of these butters will be found excellent with cold game, cold duck, cold beef or mutton ; others may be used for spreading toasts, biscuits, etc. For decorating little cold hors-d’oeuvre and savouries these butters are exceedingly useful, as they enhance .the appearance of many such dishes. Take the humble maitre d’hotel butter as an example, and you will have some idea of the many purposes for which flavouring butters can be used. The following recipes comprise the most popular and most useful flavouring butters. Each^one possesses all the essentials of an appetising, tasty, and well seasoned compound. Anchovy Butter [Beurre d’Anchois). 6 Gorgona anchovies, 2-1- oz. butter, lemon. Soak the anchovies in cold water, drain them, take out the bones, wipe dry with a cloth, pound in a mortar with the butter ; add aFLAVOURING OR COMPOUND BUTTERS. 175 little lemon-juice, rub through a fine sieve. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and use as required. Devilled Butter {Beurre a la Diahle). oz. butter, -J- teaspoonful cayenne pepper, i saltspoonful black pepper, curry powder, ground ginger. Mix the butter with the cayenne pepper, black pepper, a pinch of curry powder, and a pinch of ground ginger. Spread on a plate, and use for grilled cutlets, chops, etc. Crayfish or Shrimp Butter {Beurre d’ Ecrevisses). 1 pint picked shrimps, 3 oz. fresh butter, 1- oz. anchovy paste. Pound the shrimps or prawns in a mortar till smooth, add the butter and anchovy paste, mix thoroughly, and rub through a fine sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. A little liquid carmine or cochineal may be added to colour if found necessary. Spanish Butter [Beurre EspagnoJ). 2 oz. lean ham, 2 tablespoonfuls espagnole sauce, 6 oz. fresh butter, nutmeg. Pound the ham in a mortar till smooth, then add the well- reduced espagnole sauce ; incorporate by degrees the butter, season to taste with pepper and finely grated nutmeg, and rub through a hair sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. Lobster Butter [Beurre de Homard). Lobster coral and eggs, fresh butter. Procure the eggs and coral of a lobster, wash, and dry well ; pound in a mortar with double its quantity of fresh butter. Rub through a fine sieve, and keep in a cool place till required, Ham Butter [Beurre au Jambon) 4 oz. finely chopped lean cooked ham, 2 oz. butter, i tablespoonful double cream, pepper, cayenne. Pound the ham, add the butter and cream ; season to taste with white pepper and cayenne. Pass through a fine sieve, put it on the ice, and use as required. Chutney Butter [Beurre d la Madras). 4 oz. mango chutney, i tablespoonful French mustard, 8 oz. fresh butter, lemon-juice. Pound the chutney in a mortar, add the mustard, work in 6-8 oz. of fresh butter, season to taste, and add a few drops of lemon-juice. Rub through a hair sieve, place it on the ice, and use as required. Beurre Maitre d'Hotel or Parsley Butter. 1 oz. fresh butter, i teaspoontul chopped parsley, i saltspoonful of chopped mixed tarragon and chervil, i teaspoonful lemon-juice. Mix the butter with the parsley, tarragon, chervil, lemon-juice, a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and shape into pats when quite firm. Montpellier Butter [Beurre Montpellier) 2 OZ. parsle3^ chervil, tarragon, chives and cress, 2 anchovies, g yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 3 oz. butter, i teaspoonful capers, i gherkin. Wash and pick the parsley, cress, and herbs, blanch for three minutes, strain, and cool. Drain well in a cloth, and pound inTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1/6 a mortar. Put this on a plate, and clean the mortar. Wipe and bone the anchovies, poimcl them in a mortar with the egg-yolks, capers, and gherkins. When quite smooth, add the butter, and lastly the green puree. Mix the whole well together. Put through a wire sieve, and use as required. A little spinach greening may be added if the herbs should not colour the butter sufficientl}^ Paprika Butter. 4 oz. butter, paprika pepper. Put a teaspoonful of paprika (Hungarian pepper) on a clean plate and mix with 4 oz. of fresh butter until it resembles a smooth paste, then put it on the ice or in a cool place and use when wanted. Pimiento Butter. Drain a Spanish pimiento, cut up small and pound it till smooth, in a mortar with 4-6 oz. of fresh butter and a little lemon- juice, then rub through a fine sieve and season to taste. Horse-radish Butter (Beurre de Raifort). I stick horse-radish, 8 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chilli vinegar, i teaspoonful lemon-juice. Wash the horse-radish, scrape off the outer skin, and grate finely the white part. Mix with the butter, the chilli vinegar, and lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, spread on a plate, and put on the ice. Cut into diamond shapes or little rounds, and serve with grilled fillets of beef [toiirnedos) or steaks. Green Herb Butter [Beurre Ravigote). II oz. chervil, 2 oz. spinach, i oz. green chives, i oz. tarragon, -J- oz. parsley, shallots, 6 oz. butter. Wash f and pick the chervil, spinach, chives, tarragon, and parsley. Put this in a saucepan with water and blanch. Drain well, and pound in a mortar. Peel and chop the shallots finely, cook them in a little butter until of a golden colour, and put with the herbs. Work in the butter, rub through a fine sieve ; add a little pepper and salt, and spinach greening if necessary. The butter is then ready for use. Watercress Butter [Beurre de Ruisseau) Watercress, fresh butter. Pick the leaves of the required quantity of watercress, mince them as fine as possible, dry them in a cloth, then knead them with as much fresh butter as they will take up, adding a very little salt and white pepper. Put the mixture thus obtained on a plate, spread it out evenly, and place on the ice. Stamp out some little rounds and serve in a glass dish, or use for other purposes as described. Tomato Butter [Beurre au Tornate). Peel and free from moisture 3 small ripe tomatoes, pound them in a mortar with the same weight of butter, then cook quickly over the fire, season with salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve or tammy.FLAVOURING OR COMPOUND BUTTERS. T77 Truffle Butter {Beurre au Truffe). Pound about li- oz. of truffles in a mortar with 2 oz. of fresh butter, and i tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, when fine, rub through a tammy or sieve. FORCEMEATS (FARCES). Bread Panade [for Farces). Soak ^ lb. of bread, free from crust and cut up small, in i pint of boiling milk, and season with salt to taste. Press out some of the moisture and cook the bread on a stewpan with i oz. of butter ; let it cool and use as required. Fish Quenelle Forcemeat {Farce a Quenelle de Poisson). lb. white fish (whiting, haddock, pike or cod, tree from bone and skin), it oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i gill cream, 3 eggs, i- gill fish stock, .salt, pepper, nutmeg. Make a panade by melting the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, then add the fish stock, stir the whole well over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean. Spread this on to a plate to get cool. Pound the fish, previously freed from skin and bones, in a mortar, when quite smooth add the panade and gradually the yolks of two eggs, and one whole egg. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; mix in half the cream and pass the farce through a fine sieve. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, incorporate this and the cream into the forcemeat, shape into quenelles, or use otherwise as directed. Whiting Forcemeat {Farce de Poisson). I large whiting, 4. oz. panade, 2 oz. butter, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce, I whole egg, 2 yolks of eggs, nutmeg. Remove the meat from the whiting ; put into a mortar and pound with the panade and butter. Rub all through a sieve, return to the mortar, and work in gradually the stiff bechamel sauce (cold), the whole egg, and yolks. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Godiveau Quenelles. 1 lb. lean veal (cushion), -1 lb. veal suet finely chopped, 2 eggs, 2 oz. panade, 3 oz. soaked bread, salt and pepper, grated nutmeg. Free the meat from skin, fat, and sinews, and cut into very small pieces ; pound the veal and suet together in a mortar until perfectly smooth, then add the eggs one at a time, also the panade or soaked bread, the latter to be mixed in only in small quantities. Moisten with about a gill of iced water, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Test the consistency in a little boiled water ; if found too soft, add a little more bread or panade, and a yolk of egg ; if too stiff, add a little more water, stock or cream. Shape into quenelles the required shape, poach in salted water or stock, and use as required for garniture, etc. Veal Forcemeat {Farce de Veau). l- lb. lean veal, lb. beef suet, 2 oz. fat bacon, a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley, mushroom, onion, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs, aromatic spice. MTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 78 Slice the veal, free it from skin and sinews, together with the beef suet, and the bacon. Pound all well in a mortar, pass through a sieve, put back to the mortar, season with salt and aromatic spice, add the parsley, mushrooms, and onions, and a small handful of fresh breadcrumbs. Work all well for a few minutes longer, bind with two well-beaten eggs. This, like all other forcemeat, should be first tried in boiling water, and, if firm, light, and well flavoured, it is ready for use. Chicken Forcemeat [Farce de Volaille). -i lb, raw chicken meat, i oz. flour, i oz. butter, V gill chicken stock, i egg, salt, pepper, iiutineg. Boil the stock and butter, stir in the flour, cook for six minutes, stirring all the time ; the mixture should then appear quite smooth. This is a panade. Spread it on a plate to cool. Free the chicken from skin and sinews, cut up small, and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade, a little at a time, the egg, and a little cream if liked. Mix thoroughly, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the whole through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the forcemeat befoi'e shaping into quenelles, etc. Use as directed. Game Forcemeat [Farce de Gibier). I lb. raw game, free from skin, bones, and gristle, lb. lean fresh pork, 1 pint well-reduced game sauce, i yolk of egg, i chopped shallot, i tea- .spoonful chopped parsley, i bay-leaf finely chopped, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Cut the game and pork into small pieces and pound in a mortar till smooth ; add the yolk of egg, chopped shallot, parsley, bay-leaf and sauce, work it till perfectly fine, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, rub through a fine wire sieve, and use as directed. Pheasant Forcemeat [Farce de Faisan) , y, lb. pheasant, 2 tablespoonfuls espagnole sauce, i glass sherry, 2 oz. foie- gras, I oz. panade, 2 oz. sausage meat, i egg, aromatic spice. Put in a mortar the pheasant freed from bone and skin, pound well, and. add the reduced espagnole sauce, the sherry, foie- gras, panade, egg, and sausage-meat. Work well, season with pepper and salt and a little aromatic spice, and pass all through a fine sieve. If you find the farce too stiff, work in a little cream or more sauce. Some chopped truffles may be introduced after the farce is passed through the sieve. Liver Farce [Farce de Foie de Veau) 111. calf’s liver, lb. bacon, i small carrot, i small turnip, i small bunch savoury herbs, 1 small onion, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Cut up the bacon, and fry it. Slice the liver and fry with the bacon, chop the vegetables fine and put with the liver, add herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir over the lire until sufficiently cooked. Remove the herbs and pound the rest in a mortar. Then run through a fine sieve. The farce is then ready for use. NoTE.—For other Forcemeat and Stuffings see Miscellaneous Recipes at end of book.179 CHAPTER XV. SOUPS (POTAGES). (See also Chapter IX. on Stocks and Soups.) General Stock for Consommes and other Soups. I lb. of veal (knuckle part), 2 Ib. shin of beef (or .shoulder part), 3-J lb. bones (beef or veal), 2 gallons of water, 2 oz. salt, some poultry giblets (cleaned), 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 leeks, i head of celery, 2 cloves (stuck in the onions), i parsnip, 12 peppercorns, i small bunch of sweet herbs, bay- leaves, thyme, and plenty of parsley. Remove all bones from the meat and tie up with string, break the bones into pieces with a chopper. Put both together with the giblets in the stock-pot, add the salt and water (cold), and let it come gently to the boil. VTen nearly boiling remove the scum which will have risen to the top, pour in half a gill of cold water, and skim again. Have the above-named vegetables and herbs prepared, and add them to the stock with the peppercorns. Let the whole come to the boil, skim again, remove the pot to the side of the stove, or if a gas-stove is used lower the flame, and let it simmer slowly for five hours. The fat which rises to the top during the process of simmering should be carefully taken off with a spoon. This fat should be put aside in a basin and used up with other fat when clarifying for frying purposes. As soon as the broth or stock is cooked sufliciently, take out the meat and put it on a dish, to be used up in some form or for second stock. Strain the broth through a wet napkin, colour it with a few drops of caramel if required for brown stock or soup. Add a little more salt or pepper if it be required. If rec|uired as stock it is best to keep it without any additional seasoning, and in its natural colour. Remouillage {Second Stock).—This is prepared by adding the same quantity of water to the meat, bones, and vegetables after being used for general or first stock. Any remains of meat or bones which cannot be used otherwise should And their way to the second stock. Let it simmer for four or five hours, keeping it well skimmed. Salt or other additional seasoning should be omitted, for this stock is only used for filling up others, already seasoned, or else for purees, sauces, etc. When ready, pass it throngh a cloth, and use when required, or boil it down for meat glaze. Stock made from veal makes the best meat glaze, but any kind of meat, poultry or game stock can be reduced to glaze. Bouillon en Tasses [Broth in Cups).—To produce a good cup of bouillon, it rec;[uires only a rich and well-flavoured beef-stock,i8o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or pot-au-feu broth. Put one yolk of egg into each cup, add a tiny grate of nutmeg and stir up, pour in slowly some strained hot beef- broth, sprinkle a little chopped parsley or chives on the top, and serve. The egg-yolk may, if liked, be omitted. Bouillon aux QEufs [Beef Broth with Eggs).—Prepare a stock with beef, shoulder flank or sticking, allowing i lb. of meat and bones to each quart of water. Place it on the fire, adding a little salt, let it come gently to the boil, and remove the scum. Add the soup vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, three leeks, pre- viously cleaned and peeled, also a few peppercorns and a couple of bay-leaves. Cook gently from 2h to 3 hours. Beat up one or two eggs in a soup-tureen, add to it a tablespoonful or less of finely chopped parsley and chives, and pour into it some of the strained stock, which is known as broth or bouillon, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and serve. Allow one egg to every quart of broth. Consommes in General, Method of Clarification. I gallon of stock, i lb. lean beef, i onion, i carrot, leek, 2 clove.s, \ bay- leaf, r head celery, a few sprigs parsley, i sprig thyme and marjoram. 12 peppercorns, 2 sprigs tarragon and chervil, 3 whites of egg and shell, 1 glass sherry, i of brandy, -t lemon or i dessert.spoonful French vinegar, salt, sugar. The stock should be cold for clarifying. Remove all the fat. Prepare the vegetables, wash and cut into thick slices. Put the stock vegetables, herbs, cloves, bay-leaves, and peppercorns in a well-tinned stewpan. Pass the meat through a mincing machine several times, or chop finely. Whisk the whites of egg a little and put with the meat, moisten with a tablespoonful of cold water, add the egg-shells, and put the whole into the stewpan containing the stock. Stir over the fire until it commences to boil, then add the wine and brandy, and let simmer gently for about fifteen minutes. Season to taste with salt and a pinch of castor sugar. Strain through a cloth ; it is then ready for use. Royal Custard {as Garnish for Clear Soups). 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of egg, i gill white stock, i tablespoonful cream, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Break the eggs and pitt into a basin, add the stock and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, strain and fill into a well-buttered plain mould. Cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan or saute-pan three-parts filled with hot water. Cook gently on the stove or in the oven until set, take out, let cool, turn on to a plate, cut into diamonds, lozenge- shapes, rounds or small dice. Serve in clear soups or purees as directed. Parmesan Croutons {as Garnish for Clear Soups). 2 oz. flour (sifted), 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i oz. butter, i yolk of egg, a pinch of cayenne. Mix the flour and grated cheese together on a paste-board, add a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper, rub in the butter ; when well mixedi8i SOUPS (POTAGES). add the egg-yolk and work to a smooth stiff paste. Roll out about an eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds about the size of a sixpence, place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake a golden brown in a moderately hot oven. Put them on a sieve to cool, and serve on small fancy dish or plate, covered with a pretty lace paper. Chicken or Veal Farce Quenelles. 8 oz. chicken or lean veal, 3 oz. bread, milk, i egg, nutmeg. Soak the bread in milk, free the veal or chicken from bone, skin, and gristle, pound until smooth, and add the soaked bread, previously freed from moisture. Mix thoroughly and pound well, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, incorporate a well-beaten egg, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Shape into small marbles and poach them in stock. Pot-au-feu [French Family Soup).—The pot-au-feu is what would here be termed the stock-pot. It figures as “ a standing dish ” in every household in France, Germany, and Switzerland, as well as in other foreign countries where thrift is, so to speak, ingrained in the national character, and where cooking, as an art is not mono- polised by the rich alone. The pot-au-feu is on the simmer from the early morn until dinner-time, and many loose, unconsidered trifles and scraps find their way to the stock-pot, or pot-au-feu. The art of culinary blending, however, produces a highly wholesome soup, which is at the same time nutritive and savoury. The following is a recipe which will produce a first-class soup with meat^and vegetables, the same as is served on theXontinent : 4 lb. brisket of beef, i large onion, 2 carrots, i turnip, 3 cloves, t leek, a piece of celery, -1- cabbage, a small bunch of soup herbs, 12 peppercorns, salt, I French roll, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, i-l- gallon cold water. Wash the meat in cold water (shin of beef may be substituted for brisket, but it will not be so useful for ser\-ing), cover it with the water, place it on the fire and let it come gently to a boil.i82 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Be careful to skim off all the scum which rises on top as the stock begins to boil. Wash and clean the vegetables, stick the cloves in the onion, tie up the leek, celery, and cabbage, and put all in with the meat. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, add the peppercorns, and let the whole simmer gently for four hours. Take out the meat, strain the broth into a tureen, cut the carrots, turnip, and leek into round pieces, and put with the broth ; cut the bread into thin slices, and put it in the tureen, sprinkle the chopped parsley on top, and serve. Before straining the broth it should be tasted, and more seasoning added according to requirement and taste. The meat can be served as a separate^course, or it may be used up in some form for another meal. Petites Marmites Parisienne. This is a high-class pot-au-feu soup, served in small earthenware soup-pots, which hold about half a pint of soup. Each guest is served with a small marmite, which should be handed round on hot soup-plates covered with a folded napkin. It is usual to serve at the same time small sippets of toasted and buttered bread. If marrow-bones are used for this soup, they should be sawn into inch pieces. These are likewise handed round with the soup. Ingredients for Petites Marmites Soup.—4 lb. buttock steak, i t lb. beef- bones, I- lb. knuckle of veal, some chicken giblets if handy, i small leek, 2 cloves, i chicken, J celery root, i small onion, 2 small carrots, i turnip, -t cabbage, 12 peppercorns, salt, parsley (a marrow-bone). Use an earthenware soup-pot or a French stone marmite. Tie up the meat with string, put it in the soup-pot with 6 to 7 quarts of cold water or stock, bring it slowly to a boil, and take off the scum. Wmsh, clean, and trim the vegetables. Roast the bones and giblets and chicken with a little butter in a saute-pan over the fire, drain free from butter and add them to the soup. Tie up the leek and cabbage, add these together with the carrots, turnips, onion (stuck with two cloves), celery, and parsley to the soup, let it come gently to the boil, skim, season lightly with salt, and add a dozen pepper- corns. Let the whole simmer very slowly for about three hours. It is very essential that it should simmer slowly and continuously so as to ensure a clear broth with the needful nourishment, which can only be obtained by a slow process of cooking. Remove the meat and chicken, cut the former into convenient pieces, the chicken into small joints, and put them in a clean stewpan, and pour the broth over them through a fine sieve or strainer. Cut the cabbage, leek, carrots, and turnip into small pieces or slices, moisten them with broth, and'keep hot. Let the soup simmer for another half- hour. Season to taste. Put equal proportions of vegetables, beef, and chicken in little soup-pots (this soup should be served in very small French marmites, sufficiently large to hold enough soup for one person), pour in the broth, sprinkle over each a little chopped MARMITE POT.183 SOUPS {POTAGES). parsley or chives, and serve with toasted bread sippets. If a marrow- bone is used, saw it into small pieces about an inch long, wrap up in little pieces of linen or muslin, cook with the soup, and serve as directed. If any pieces of meat are left over, make them up into a salad, or use up in some other form. Croute-au-pot. 2 quarts of good first stock, i carrot, i turnip, I- cabbage, 2 oz. Initter, 1 dinner roll, parsley or chives, pepper and salt, nutmeg. The stock should be made from beef and veal and bones, and the usual stock vegetables. It must be kept well skimmed, in which case it is not necessary to clarify it. Cut the carrot and turnip into round slices, drain the cabbage and cut into small pieces ; put all the vegetables in a stewpan with the butter, cover, and cook slowly for about ten minutes. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Strain the stock on to the vegetables, and let simmer for about thirty minutes ; skim occasionally. Cut the roll into thin round slices, place them on a baking-sheet, bake them on both sides a golden brown in a moderate oven. Put them in a soup tureen, moisten with a little stock, pour the soup over, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. CONSOMMES, ETC. (CLEAR SOUPS, ETC.). Consomme a I’Andalouse. For 2 quarts of consomme : t- gill tomato sauce, i egg, i tablespoonful cream, i small cucumber, chicken forcemeat for (pienelles. Beat up the egg in a basin and mix with it the tomato sauce (cold) and the cream, season with pepper and salt, strain and hll into a buttered timbale mould ; stand the mould in a saucepan half filled with boiling water, and poach in a slow oven till firm. Let it cool a little, turn out, and cut into fanciful shapes ; put these in a small stewpan, moisten with a little clear soup, and keep hot until required. Peel the cucumber, scoop out with a vegetable scoop some little bell shapes ; cook tender in salted water, and strain. Have ready some chicken forcemeat, put in forcing-bag ; form some little quenelle shapes in a buttered saute-pan, pour in a little hot clear soup, and poach. Put the garniture in a soup-tureen, pour in the consomme, and serve. Consomme Algerienne. • 2 quarts good beef stock, carrots, turnips, green peas, Perles du Nizam, 5 yolks of eggs, stock. Clarify the stock in the usual way, strain it, and add a garnish composed of carrots and turnips, scooped out in pea-shaped rounds, cooked in stock or salted water, drained, and tosshd in butter, and an equal quantity of cooked green peas and Nizam barley {Perles du Nizam) cooked in stock. As the soup is served, drop the yolks of eggs, slightly poached, into the tureen. A few finely-shredded leaves of tarragon, chives, and chervil may also be added if liked.i84 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme Bouquetiere.—Use the same vegetables as for Pot- au-feu, omitting the cabbage. Cut them into slices and stamp out by means of vegetable or column cutters some fanciful-shaped dice. Proceed the same as in the foregoing, and add one gill royal custard (p. i8o), cut into small diamond shapes just before serving. Consomme Brunoise. For 2 quarts of consomme : ^ onion, 2 carrots, i turnip, i leek, i oz. butter, a pinch sugar, pepper and salt. Peel the onion, pare and wash the carrots, turnip, and leek, cut all into very small dice, the smaller the better. Put the vegetables in a stewpan, add the butter, season with very little salt, pepper, and sugar. Cover and keep over a fire for a few minutes, shake the pan well to prevent burning. See that the vegetables get well blended, bnt do not let them take colour. Pour in the clear soup, and boil gently for about half an hour. Take off the fat, and serve. A few sippets of toasted bread may be served in this soup, and, if liked, a handful of finely-minced lettuce and sorrel may be added alone with the above-named vegetables. Consomme Brunoise au Riz.—Proceed the same as in the fore- going recipe, adding a handful of well-washed, blanched, and cooked rice about ten minutes before serving. Consomme a la Brisse. 3 eggs (whole), 6 egg-yolks, 4 cooked cauliflower, a cupful of cooked spinach, 6 small French carrots cooked, a little stock, 3 quarts consomme, a handfui of boiled rice or royal custard (p. 180), pepper and salt. Prepare three distinct purees of the vegetables, mix with a little stock over the fire. Add to each one whole and two yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, press through a hair sieve, fill up three equal-sized timbale moulds, well buttered, and cook in a saute-pan in boiling water. When done turn out on a napkin, cut into small sqnares, put them in a sonp-tureen with a handful of boiled rice, pour over the boiling consommeh and serve. Consomme Careme {Clear Soup, Careme Style) Prepare a stock with 3 quarts of water, i lb. of lean veal, i lb. of shin of beef, some roast beef-bones, a small roast chicken, and a small handful of salt. Let it boil up gently, skim well, and add the following : one onion stuck with a clove, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, a small head of celery, and a few peppercorns. Let all simmer gently from four to five hours, removing fat and scum from time to time, next strain the broth carefully through a napkin. Cook separately in two quarts of broth, until done, one small carrot, one small turnip, one leek, a few lettuce and a few sorrel leaves, all cut into small round slices about the size of a shilling-piece ; when done add it to the prepared broth, together with two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus points. Before serving, place a handful of small rounds of bread-crusts, stamped out the same shape as the vegetable, into the tnreen. Season the sonp to taste, add a pinch of fine sugar and the vegetables, pour into the soup-tureen, and serve. ThisSOUPS (POTAGES). i«5 soup, if properly done, should be quite transparent, and of a rich golden colour, without being coloured or clarified. Consomme Carmen.—Make a rich consomme stock of double strength and clarify it in the usual way, adding two to three ripe tomatoes, finely shredded, in the preparation of the consomme. Season, and flavour, if liked, with a small glass of sherry. Cut some sweet Spanish pepper and hard-boiled white of egg into julienne strips ; cook a little rice plainly, and use both as garnish, together with a small quantity of finely-shredded tarragon and chervil. When Spanish pepper is not obtainable, pimiento or ripe tomatoes cut into julienne strips may be used. Consomme a la Carlsbad [Cleay Soup with Pnmes). 2 quarts of rich consomme, i8 French plums, i or 2 truffles (small), a handful of cooked rice, seasoning, veal forcemeat, a little cream. Stew the plums in a little water till soft, drain them, and care- fully remove the stones. Mix a small quantity of raw veal forcemeat (farce de veait) with a little cream, and fill the centres of the plums with this. This must be done very neatly, so that the plums will keep their shape. Place them in a small saute-pan, pour over enough stock or water to cover, and poach them for about ten minutes, take them up and drain on a sieve. Shred the truffles very finely, put them together with the plums and the rice (this must be dry and the grains well separated) in a soup-tureen. Have the consomme quite boiling, season to taste, pour over the garnish in the tureen, and serve. Consomme Celestine {Clear Chicken Broth, Cclestine Style) 3 quarts good consomme, i glass sherry, 2 oz. flour, t oz. butter, f oz. grated Parme.san, 2 eggs, i gill milk, i dessertspoonful of mixed finely chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Prepare a pancake batter with the flour, oiled butter, Parmesan cheese, eggs, milk, parsley, tarragon, chervil, and a jflnch of salt. Make about six thin pancakes with this, fold them longways, cut them into thin strips, and place them in a soup-tureen. The sherry should be added to the soup about fifteen minutes before it is poured into the tureen. Consomme Christophe Colomb {Clear Soup with Custard Cubes). 2 quarts of consomme, 6 eggs, i gill of cream, a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal, salt and pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, a little butter. Have ready three even-sized, very small timbale moulds, and butter them well. Break the eggs, put two whole into a basin, four yolks into another basin, and the whites of four into a third basin, beat up each lot separately, then add a pinch of salt, pepper, and nutmeg in each, also the cream evenly divided. Put a few drops of carmine into the basin containing the two whole eggs, mix each lot thoroughly, pass through a pointed strainer separately into the moulds, place the moulds in fi stewpan with boiling water reaching to half their height, cover with a piece of Ifuttered pa])er, and poach, in the oven until firm, ^\'hen done remove the moulds, let themTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. i86 cool a little, then turn out and cut into neat slices ; place these in a soup-tureen, pour in the hot consomme, and serve. Consomme a la Conde.—Clarified game stock, garnished with very small quenelles of haricot bean puree and julienne strips of cooked partridge. Consomme Colbert.—The garniture for this soup consists of poached eggs neatly trimmed (reckoning one for each person), a handful of cooked ball shapes of turnips and carrots, and a few cooked green peas. Choose the eggs very small, poach them in salted water containing a dash of tarragon vinegar. Consomme aux Petits Choux farcis [Clear Soup with Stuffed Choux-paste Fritters). 3 pints to 2 quarts of clear soup (consomme) for choux ; i oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, I egg, a pinch of salt, about 2 oz. chicken or veal forcemeat. Put the butter in a medium-sized stewpan, add about a gill of water and a pinch of salt, let it come to the boil, then stir in the flour and work vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire until a smooth paste is obtained (the sides and bottom of the stewpan mifst be left perfectly clean by this time). Allow to cool a little, then stir in the egg. Put the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and press out some even-sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin about an inch apart. Bake these in a fairly quick oven. Cut out a small portion of the bottom of each choux and scoop out some of the inside ; fill the cavities with forcemeat, replace the crust removed for the purpose of filling, and place the choux in a buttered saute- pan : cover them with a greased paper, and place in the oven for about twelve minutes, in order to cook the farce. To serve the soup, put the choux in a soup-tureen, and pour the consomme (previously heated) into the tureen. These little choux may be filled with almost any kind of farce. Fish, game or vegetable purees make a nice change. Consomme de Volaille a la ChifTonade [Chicken Consomme). A small fowl, 3 quarts of white stock, 2 leeks, 3 oz. butter, a bouquet garni, parsley, i long lettuce, i handful of sorrel, i- handful of chervil, salt and pepper. Cut the fowl into small joints. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the pieces of chicken, season with salt and pepper, and fry slightly brown, add the stock, boil up, and skim. Now add a bunch of parsley, the bouquet garni, and the leeks (previously cleaned). Simmer gently for two hours. Wash the sorrel, chervil, and lettuce (use the tender leaves of the latter only), cut all into very fine strips, put them together with an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir gently over the fire for ten minutes, moisten with some of the broth, skim, and cook for fifteen minutes, strain the remainder of the broth into this, and season to taste. Cut some neat pieces of chicken and put in a tureen, pour in the soup, and serve.SOUPS (POTAGES). 187 Consomme de Volaille frappe {Clear Chicken Soup, Iced). 1 large fowl, 2 lb. knuckle of veal, 2 lb. shin of beef, a bouquet garni, 2 carrots, i turnip, 10 peppercorns, i onion, 2 cloves, i stem of celery, 2 leeks, I bay-leaf, parsley, i glass sherry, -f- glass brandy. Put into a stock-pot the fowl, veal, beef, two tablespoonfuls of salt, and about one and a half gallons of water. Bring it slowly to the boil, skim well, add the bouquet garni, carrots, turnip, pepper- corns, onion stuck with cloves, celery, leeks, bay-leaf, parsley, and let all boil gently for about hve hours. Take out the fowl when done, so that it can be made further use of. Remove the fatty substance from the top, strain through a wet napkin or a hne hair sieve, and clarify in the usual manner. When strained the second time, allow it to cool, and set on the ice until required. Before sending to the table season to taste, and add the sherry and brandy. Consomme de Volaille {Clear Chicken Soup). I fowl, if. lb. lean veal, 2 lb. lean beef, i onion, 2 carrots, i turnip, i stick of celery, 2 leeks, 3 cloves, i parsley root, 2 gallons of water, salt. Truss the fowl the same as for boiling, preserve the giblets, clean and wash and put them with the fowl, beef, and veal in a stock-pot, add two tablespoonfuls of salt and the water. Put it on the fire, when nearly boiling take off the scum. Skin the onion, stick in the cloves, scrape the carrots, peel the turnip, clean the celery, leeks, and. parsley, and tie together in a bunch. When the stock is well skimmed and boiling, put in the vegetables, and let the whole simmer gently for hve hours. The fowl may be taken out when done, and be used up in some form or the other. If care is taken in preparing this soup it will be quite clear and ht for serving when strained through a wet cloth, but if found cloudy clarify it as directed on p. 131, taking only half the quantity of meat and vegetables given in the recipe. Consomme aux Quenelles de Volaille {Clear Soup with Chicken Quenelles).—Prepare a consomme as above directed, shape some very small quenelles from chicken farce (p. 181) by means of a small teaspoon, poach them in stock or consomme and add to the soup. Bouillon de Volaille a I’Orge {Chicken Broth with Barley). Chicken trimmings, 2 oz. butter, 2 quarts of good white stock, i oz. pearl barley, parsley or chives. Chop up the carcases, necks, and heads of two or three chickens, fry in the butter until nicely browned, then pour off the butter, and pour in two quarts of good clear veal or chicken stock. Simmer for one hour, skim and strain, pour into another stewpan, and let come to the boil. Wash the pearl barley, and add to the soup when boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, simmer for fifteen minutes, add a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. Consomme a la Deslignac. For 2 quarts of chicken or game coii.somme : 3 eggs, -1- gill cream, t gill stock (game), t gill asparagus points, t- gill cooked green peas, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Break the eggs into a basin, beat a little, and add the cream and stock, season to taste, mix well, strain, and put into a well- buttered plain mould. Place it in a stewpan half filled with water, cook over a slow fire for about half an hour, and, when cool, cut into neat scpiare pieces. Put these, together with the cooked asparagus points and green peas, in a soup-tureen, pour in the clear chicken or game consomme, and serve. Consomme a la Diplomate. 2 quarts clear soup, i carrot, i turnip, i small cucumber, i8 small white button onions, 6 yolks of eggs (raw). Wash and peel the carrot and turnip, peel the cucumber, scoop out, by means of a vegetable scoop, some neat shapes, blanch, and cook separately in salted water or clear stock. Peel the onions, blanch, and cook likewise. Carefully poach the yolks of eggs in slightly salted boiling water. Place the yolks into a soup-tureen together with the vegetables previously strained, pour over the consomme (hot), season with pepper and salt, if required, and serve. Consomme a la Dubarry. 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of eggs, i gill stock, Jordan almonds, i cauliflower, t oz. Carolina rice, 3 or .4 pints rich chicken consomme. Prepare a royal custarcl by mixing the eggs and the yolks of eggs with the stock. Strain into a basin, add a few Jordan almonds, blanched and cut into fine shreds, season with salt and pepper, pour into a plain buttered mould, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Steam gently for twenty minutes. When set, let cool, turn out on a board, and cut it into small cubes. Cook a handful of very small buds of cauli- flower in salted water, and strain when done. Wash, blanch, cook, and dry the rice. Put all these in a soup-tureen, and pour over the chicken consomme. Consomme Dubourg. The garniture for this consomme consists of neatly cut shapes of royal custard (p. i8o), plainly-cooked rice, and cooked green peas, in equal proportions. Consomme Espagnole. Chicken stock, i egg, pimientos, rice, parmesau cheese. Prepare a chicken stock and clarify it in the usual way. When boiling stir in a well-beaten egg run through a strainer, garnish with a bandful of finely cut pimientos and a little boiled rice. Hand round with the soup some grated parmesan cheese. Consomme a la Flamande. 2 (marts clear soup (consomme), 2 carrots. 2 turnips, i onion, ] of a medium- sized cabbage, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful castor sugar, a few sorrel-leaves, a few chervil-leaves, the crust of half a French roll, pepper and salt. Clean and peel the carrots and turnips, wash the cabbage, and cut into small thin dice, put them into a stewpan with the butter, and fry a light-brown colour. Add the sugar, drain off the butter, moisten with the consomme (clarified beef broth) and about a pint of water, and cocjk slowly for one hour. Wash and pick the sorrelSOUPS {POPAGES). 189 and chervil, and cut into fine shreds. Add this to the soup, and cook a few minutes longer. Remove the scum. Cut the bread- crust into dice, toast slightly, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Consomme Fleuri.—Prepare a “ Jardiniere Consomme” (p. 190), put three tablespoonfuls cooked rice into the soup-tureen, pour the hot consomme over it, and seiu'e. Consomme Florador. 2-3 quarts consomme, gill milk, i t oz. butter, 2 oz. medium-grainetl tlorador (or Indian maize), 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Melt the butter in the milk, let it boil, and stir in quickly the florador. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Let cool a little, then work in the yolks of eggs. Shape some tiny quenelles by hlling a small tea- spoon previously dipped in hot water, smooth over with the blade of a knife also dipped in hot water, scoop out with a second teaspoon and drop into salted boiling water ; proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Poach the quenelles for six minutes until firm, strain on a sieve, trim a little, and serve with the hot consomme. Consomme a la St. Galle. 3 or 4 pints chicken consomme, 2 tomatoes, 10 large Spanish olives, veal or chicken farce, paprika pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls Italian paste. Carefully stone ten large Spanish olives, stuff them with the veal or chicken farce (p. 178), seasoned with enough paprika pepper to give it a pink colour. Poach the olives in stock for ten minutes. Drain, and when cold cut them into slices. Put them into the chicken consomme flavoured with fresh tomatoes (before being clarified), boil up, remove any scum, add the boiled and drained pates d’ltalie (Italian paste), and serve. Consomme Grisonne.—Have ready some consomme. Prepare a pancake batter (see “Consomme Celestine,” p. 185), leaving out the herbs and using cream instead of milk. When the consomme is boiling force the preparation through a colander quickly into it, let it boil gently for a few minutes, when the soup will be ready for serving. Consomme de Gibier, St. Hubert {Clear Game Soup). J- lb. cooked breast of pheasant, grouse or partridge, giblets of game, carcase, etc. ; 3 lb. knuckie of veal, lb. lean ham or bacon, i large onion, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, i bouquet garni, 1 small head of celery, 3 cloves, I blade of mace, 12 peppercorns, i oz. butter, a handful of cooked green peas, salt, a pinch of castor sugar. Remove the flesh from the bird, take off the skin, and cut into small, even-sized dice. Put the bones of game and poultry, and the giblets (previously washed), in a stock-pot lined with the bacon or ham cut in slices, add a carrot, a turnip, and the onion, all cut into slices, the cloves, peppercorns, mace, and bouquet garni. Broil over a quick fire for about fifteen minutes (if found too dry add i oz. butter). Cut up the veal, put it with the above and broil a little90 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. longer, stirring all the time to prevent it from burning. Moisten with 6 quarts of water, let it come to a boil, take off the scum as it rises to the surface, and simmer gently for about 4 hours. Wash the remaining carrot, turnip, and celery, scrape and peel, scoop out as many little rounds as possible, and cook them separately in salted water until firm and yet tender. Put the trimmings of the vegetables into the stock. Season the stock with salt to taste, strain it through a cloth, and clarify in the usual manner. Strain the cooked vegetable shapes, add them together with the peas to the clarified soup, and simmer for a few minutes. Put the dice of game in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. Consomme a I’Imperiale. 3 quarts of consomme, 4 lb. raw or cooked chicken meat, 2 whites and 1 yolk of egg, i tablespoonfvd of cream, i tablespoonfiil of bechamel sauce, 2 oz. fat bacon or shred beef suet, about i gill white stock, pepper anci salt, 3 small carrots, a handful asparagus points. Prepare the consomme in the usual way. Butter a small flat tin mould or pan, spread evenly with a thick layer of forcemeat made as follows : Chop finely the chicken meat, bacon or suet, pound together in a mortar, add gradually the eggs and sauce, pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and add the cream and as much stock as is required to make a nice creamy farce, and season with pepper and salt to taste. Place the mould in the oven till done ; this will take but a few minutes. Cut out some thin rounds about the size of a shilling-piece, put in a soup-tureen together with a handful of small rounds of cooked carrots, and the same quantity of cooked asparagus points, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme Jardiniere. For 2 quarts of consomme : i carrot, 2 small turnips, 6 small button onions, cucumber, ^ of a lettuce, of a stalk of celery, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar. Scrape, peel, and clean the vegetables, scoop out "the carrot, turnips, and celery into the shape of peas and small olives. Wash the lettuce and pull into very small pieces, cut the tarragon and chervil into fine shreds, blanch these and the lettuce-leaves. Cook the onions, carrot, turnips, celery, and cucumber separately in salted water, drain, and put all together with lettuce and herbs in a stewpan. Fill up with the clear soup, add the seasoning, boil gently for about ten minutes, and serve hot. Note.—Toasted bread cut into small sippets may be served with this soup, but should be handed round separately. Consomme Julienne. To 2 quarts of consomme : 2 small carrots, turnip, i leek, onion, 4 stick celery, i oz. butter, 4 small cabbage, a pinch of sugar, pepper and salt. Pare and wash the vegetables, slice them thinly and cut into very fine, long shreds, put them in a stewpan with the butter, stir over the fire to blend well and cook a little, season with a pinch of sugar, a little salt and pepper. Add the clear soup, cook gentlySOUPS (POTAGES). ig I for thirty minutes or so ; skim off the fat, and serve. A table- spoonful of cooked green peas, and the same of cooked French beans cut in strips, may be added to the jnlienne garniture. HOW TO CUT JULIENNE VEGETABLES. Consomme a la Jurasienne.—Prepare a rich white stock with I fowl, 2 lb. knuckle of veal, and the usual vegetables for flavouring. Skim well, and clarify when cold in the usual manner. For the garniture, which is served in small casseroles (cocottes), prepared and poached small chicken quenelles and fillets, quarters of braised lettuces, and small rings of truffles. Place a portion of lettuce and chicken fillet in each cocotte with a little consomme. Force on top the chicken quenelle, and surmount with a truffle ring. Poach in the oven for about five minutes, and serve the cocottes or casseroles with the tureen of consomme, which must be carefully seasoned, and flavoured wifh a desserfspoonful of brandy. ' Note.—In clarifying the stock for consomme, par-roast the chicken carcase and pound it with | lb. of lean veal and white of one egg. Consomme Lilienne. 2 quarts consomme, 2 oz. almonds, 2 large truffles, 12 mushrooms, tarragon, and chervil. Blanch and shred the almonds, and bake a pale brown in the oven. Cut the truffles and preserved mushrooms into fine shreds (julienne fashion) ; put these in a soup-tureen with a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves, pour over about two quarts of hot rich consomme, and serve.92 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme a la Madrid. Cliicken stock, beef stock, tomatoes, chervil, seasoning. Clarify an equal quantity of chicken and beef stock in the usual manner, add four small ripe tomatoes cut into slices to each quart of consomme, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain and serve with a few sprigs of chervil-leaves. This consomme should be of a pinkish tint, and may be served hot or cold. Consomme a la Mancelle. 3 pints consomme, i carrot, i turnip, i leek, head white celery, i oz. butter, 9 or lo chestnuts. Wash and pare the carrot, turnip, leek, and celery, and cut them into very line shreds (julienne fashion). Put these in a stewpan with the butter, and cook very gently over the fire for ten minutes. Moisten with the consomme, and cook slowly for half an hour. Skim well, removing all the fat and scum that may rise to the surface. When ready for serving, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add the roasted chestnuts, peeled and cut into julienne strips. A tablespoonful of cooked game, such as partridge, grouse or pheasant, cut into hne shreds, added to this soup will be found an improvement; this is, however, quite optional. Consomme Metternich. 2 quarts consomme (i.e. clarified beef broth), i small chicken or fowl, 4 small ripe tomatoes, i heaped-np tablespoonful arrowroot, i glass sherry or Marsala, seasoning. Roast the chicken or fowl for ten minutes in a hot oven, and baste frequently to ensure it being a nice golden brown ; take up and place it in the consomme with two tomatoes, previously sliced. Simmer very gently for about one hour. Take out the fowl and place it in a dish to cool. Boil up the consomme again, remove the scum and fat, and strain it into another stewpan. Blanch the remaining two tomatoes, peel them and cut into dice, remove the seeds and place the dice into the soup. Mi.x the sherry and arrow- root to a smooth paste and stir into the soup. Simmer for another ten minutes. Take the fillet from the fowl or chicken, free it from skin and cut into small dice, put this into the soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, boil up again, skim, and serve. The remains of the chicken can be utilised for some other purpose. Consomme Mikado. 2 quarts of consomme flavoured with curry, 4 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. lean mutton, the breast of a small chicken, 2 oz. butter, ^ onion, a bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked rice, pepper and salt. The curry to flavour the soup should be added to the stock before it is clarified. Cut the meat into even-sized small pieces, mince the onion finely. Put the butter in a stewpan ; when melted add the bouquet of herbs and minced onion, cook a little, then add the pieces of meat, let it brown a little, put in the clear soup, let it come to a boil, skimming it thoroughly before it boils. Simmer gently for a good half-hour, season with pepper and salt, put in the boiled rice, take out the bouquet, and pour the soup in a hot tureen ready for serving.>9,1 SOUPS (POTAGES). Consomme Mulligatawny. 2 quarts of clear stock, the legs of a raw fowl, : oz. raw liam, I small onion, I teaspoonful curry powder (mild), 3 tablespoonfnls boiled rice, 1 oz. butter, i white of egg. Cut the legs of fowl into pieces, fry in butter until Itrown, add the curry powder and fry a little, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock, add the onion and raw ham cut into slices, boil up and skim, simmer for twenty minutes, and strain. When cold clarify with the white of egg, add the boiled rice and a handful of chicken meat cut into dice, heat up, and serve. Consomme a la Nantaise.—Proceed the same as for “ Consomme Princesse ” (p. 195), adding a handful of cooked green peas in place of the asparagus points. Consomme a la Napoleon. 2 ipiarts consomme, 6 oz. nonille paste (p. 134), i oz. foie-gras trimmings, 2 oz. cold chicken, veal, or rabbit, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce, i salt- spoonful chopped lemon-nnd, -1- teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Roll out the paste very thinly, stamp out some rounds with i|-inch cutter. Chop up the meat (freed from skin and gristle), lemon-rind, and foie-gras very hnely, mix with the parsley. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with the sauce, and mix well. W et the edges of the rounds of paste, put rather more than half a tea- spoonful in the centre of each, close up by pressing the edges well together, giving it the shape of triangular cocked hats. This done, drop them into boiling salted water or white stock, boil from ten to fifteen minutes, drain, and put in a soup-tureen. Pour in the consomme (previously heated), and serve. Consomme a la Nemours. 2 quarts good stock (clarified), i oz. crusheil tapioca, 2 carrots, t gill bechamel .sauce, 3 eggs, j oz. butter, seasoning. Clarify the stock in the usual manner. Add the tapioca (pre- viously soaked in water) when boiling, cook gently for fifteen minutes, and season to taste. WWsh the carrots and scrape finely the red part into a stewpan containing the butter. Cook it while stirring for five minutes, add the white sauce (bechamel) and a little stock, simmer till tender, and rub thnnigh a fine sieve. Incorporate the eggs well beaten, season to taste, strain into a buttered mould, and poach till firm. Unmoidd, cut into neat cubes or diamond shapes, and put into the prepared consomme. Re-heat and serve. Consomme a la Nesselrode. 2 cjuarts of consomme, i doz. chestnuts, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill game stock, I glass Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Skin the chestnuts, boil in water or milk until tender, and rub through a sieve. Mix with the yolk of egg and game stock, season with pepper and salt, fill into a number of well-buttered olive- shaped moulds, and poach them in the oven for ten minutes. Let them cool a little, then turn out and place them in a soup-tureen. Add the wine to the consomme, season to taste, let it boil for a few N194 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. minutes, and pour gently into the tureen. It is then ready for serving. Consomme aux Nouilles. Roll out some nouille paste very thinly on a floured board, fold it lengthways, and cut into very small strips (the finer the strips the better), shake up and put on a floured baking-sheet or dish, cover with a cloth, and allow to remain for half an hour. Boil in salted boiling water, strain and drain, and serve in the consomme. Nouille or Ravioli Paste (as Garnish for Consommes). J lb. flour, I whole or 2 yolks of eggs, teaspoonful of salt, i tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese, a little water or milk. Sift the flour and salt on to a pastry board, make a well in the centre, put in the eggs and cheese, mix the whole well together, and knead it vigorously with the palm of the hand until a smooth ball is formed, wrap up in a floured cloth, and let it rest for an hour or more. Should the paste appear too dry at the beginning, add about a tablespoonful of milk or water. It must, however, be remembered that this class of paste must be rather firm. Consomme Paysanne. For 2 quarts of clear soup (p. 180) : 3 carrots, 3 turnips, i onion, ^ small cabbage, 3 oz. butter, a handful of sorrel, a few sprigs of chervil, a handful of slightly toasted sippets of bread, salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar. Wash the vegetables, scrape the carrots, peel the turnips and onion. Cut these into thin slices, stamp out in ronnds about an inch in diameter. Cut the cabbage-leaves in a similar way. Put the butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables with the exception of sorrel and chervil. Fry a few minutes, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, pour off the butter and add a quart of water, shred the sorrel and chervil, and add it after the above has simmered for about half an hour. Pour in the clear soup, boil up, skim, and simmer for another twenty minutes. Put the toasted bread sippets in a soup- tnreen, pour over the soup when ready, and serve. Consomme aux Pates d’ltalie. Allow about ^ gill of cooked Italian paste, or vermicelli, to every quart of clear soup. Drop into the soup when fast boiling, and let them cook for a few minutes. Macaroni, spaghetti, etc., may also be used as garnishing for consommes ; but these must be par-boiled first and be broken into small pieces before being cooked in the soup. Consomme Portuguaise. 2 quarts of consomme, 3-4 ripe tomatoes, 18 French plums, 2 small leeks, i- oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Wash the plums, put them in cold water with a little salt, bring to the boil, strain, and rinse in cold water, return to the stewpan in which they were blanched, and sufficient clear stock to well cover, and cook slowly till tender. Wash and clean the leeks, cut into shreds or julienne-shaped strips about an inch long, wash well in cold water, drain, and cook a few minutes with the butter, pourSOUPS (POTAGES). 19s in some clarified stock or consomme, and cook slowly till tender. Carefully remove all the fat, pour over the consomme, and let simmer for a few minutes. Put the plums in a soup-tureen, add a pinch of cayenne, pour in the consomme, and serve with some sippets of toasted bread. Consomme a la Princesse. 2 quarts consomme (p. 180), 2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley, i chicken breast cooked, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked asparagus points. Wash well the barley, strain, and boil till tender in the con- somme, cut the chicken breast into small dice, add to the soup with the asparagus points. Boil up, skim, and serve. Consomme Printanier aux Quenelles. The garniture for this consomme consists of almost any kind of spring vegetables, such as asparagus tips, French beans, buds of cauliflower, peas, cucumbers, young carrots and turnips, celery, etc., all cut or scooped out in lozenge shapes, balls, or olive shapes. The vegetables are cooked separately in salted water, and when done, strained and mixed together, seasoned with a small piece of butter, pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar. The quenelles are made with chicken forcemeat, shaped either round or oblong. The quantity served is about a quarter of that of the vegetable garnish- ing ; they are poached in salted water, drained, and put in the consomme with the vegetables. For a plain Consomme Printanier serve the vegetable garnishing with the consomme, omitting the cpienelles. Consomme aux Quenelles frites. Prepare a choux paste (p. 135), shape into very small marbles, fry these in hot fat, lard, or butter, a golden brown, drain on a cloth ; pour the hot consomme into the tureen, and put in the fried quenelles just before serving. Consomme Ramboule. 3 pints consomme, -J lb. chicken foixemcat, i gill cooked green peas, 2 yolks of eggs. Mix the chicken forcemeat with the yolks of eggs, season with nutmeg and a pinch of aromatic spice, and a little salt if found necessary. Spread this in a well-buttered tin, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Wdten cool cut or stamp out some small rounds, by means of a column cutter. Put these and the peas, previously heated and drained, in a soup- tureen, pour over the hot consomme, and serve. Consomme Ravioli. Noiiille paste, ravioli forcemeat, grated parmesan cheese, meat glaze. Roll out thinly the nouille paste (p. 134) into a long strip, divide it into two parts ; put a row of small heaps of ravioli farce about two inches apart on one strip of paste, wet round each heap with a brush. Lay the second piece of paste over the one with the farce, press down between the rows with the blunt side of a f-inch entter. Stamp out as many rounds as there arTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 196 ' heaps with a i-inch cutter, place these on a pastry board, and let stand in a cool place for an hour. Cook in salted boiling water for ten minutes, drain on a cloth, and put in a soup-tureen. Sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of meat glaze, pour over the consomme, and serve. Ravioli Farce. 4 oz. cooked chicken, i oz. cooked ham, t oz, grated parmesan, i yolk ot egg, I tablespoonfiil cooked spinach, r tablespooniul double cream, chopped parsley, cayenne, nutmeg. Pound in a mortar the chicken, ham, parmesan, yolk of egg, spinach, cream, and season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, and chopped parsley, rub through a hue sieve, and use as directed. Consomme Renaissance. 2 quarts of clear consomme, i turnip, i carrot, about 6 oz. chicken force- meat, spinach greening. Wash and peel thinly the carrot and turnip (if very small use two of each), cut into slices and stamp out some star shapes, a quarter of an inch in diameter, by means of a vegetable-cutter. Blanch separately in salted water, and cook separately until tender in some consomme. Mix the forcemeat with a few drops of spinach greening, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube ; make some small rings on to a buttered saute-pan, poach these in boiling con- somme, strain and put in a soup-tureen with the other garnish, pour in two quarts of hot consomme, and serve. Consomme a la Richelieu. 2 quarts game consomme, 2 small fillets of cooked game, 2 carrots (small), 1 oz. tapioca de Bresil, i gill royal custard (p. 180) cut into cubes, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fillets of cooked game, and cut the meat into hne shreds or julienne strips. Scoop out some little ball shapes from the carrots and cook them in salted water till tender. Cook the tapioca in boiling water or consomme for about fifteen minutes, then add it to the consomme of game. Next add the cooked carrots, and let the consomme simmer gently for about ten minutes. Skim and season to taste. Put the prepared and cut cubes of custard in a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme des Rois. 2 quarts clarified doulile stock (i.e. chicken consomme), 3 fresh truffles', the breasts of six quails, i gill cooked asparagus points, a plate of parmesan croutons (p. 180). Wash, brush, and peel thinly the truffles, cook them in a little stock with a small quantity of sherry or Madeira, keeping the stewpan well covered. Cook the quail fillets in a saute-pan with a little butter in the oven. When done take up both the truffles and the quail hllets, and cut them into hne strips (julienne shapes). Put these with the asparagus points in a well-tinned copper stew- pan, add the consomme, and let cook gently for about ten minutes. Remove the scum, season to taste, and pour into a soup-tureen. Hand a small plateful of parmesan croutons with the soup.SOUPS {POTAGES). 97 Consomme Royale. For 2 quarts of consomme : The breast of a cooked chicken, i whole egg and 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of cream, i gill stock, pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the chicken’s breast and cut into small dice. Mix the eggs, cream, and stock, season to taste, pass through a hne sieve, hll into a buttered mould, put it in a stewpan half hlled with hot water, and cook in a slow oven till linn. Let cool a little, then turn out, cut into slices about a cpiarter of an inch thick, cut into dice or stamp out with a column cutter. Put these and the chicken into a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme au Sagou [Sago Soup). 2 quarts consomme, 11 to 2 oz. sago. Put the consomme in a stewpan, let it boil, stir in the sago with a wooden spoon, let simmer for about half an hour, skim, season to taste, and serve. Note.—When a puree or creme is recpiired, to a gill of cream add three yolks of eggs and a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir with a whisk, and pour in the above c}uantity of soup, then return to the stewpan, stir over the hre for a few minutes longer, taking care not to let it boil again. A quart of tomato puree added in place of a quart of consomme will also make a good sago soup, pro- ceeding exactly the same as above stated. Crushed tapioca, semolina, Indian meal, or florador may be served in the same manner. Consomme Sevigne. 2 quarts of chicken consomme, I cooked chicken, ?, oz. rice, i gill veloutee sauce, 2 whole eggs and 4 yolks, -1- gill cream, pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, r gill cooked peas, a iew' cooked French beans. Free the chicken from bones, skin, and sinews, cnt it into small pieces and pound in a mortar. Cook the rice in rich stock, and when done strain off and pound with the chicken, add the sauce, mix well, and put in a basin, work in the eggs and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pass this through a hne sieve. Fill eight or ten very small well-buttered timbale or dariole moulds with the mixture. Stand them in a saute-pan half hlled with boiling water. Cook slowly for half an hour. Turn out on a dish or wet cloth. Cut the shapes crossways into three or four ecpial pieces, put them into a hot soup-tureen, with the peas and beans—the latter cut into small dice—pour over the consomme, and serve.. The garniture for this soup is sometimes served separately in a deep round dish, and is handed round as'the consomme is served. Consomme Solferino. 2 quarts of consomme, 2 small ])ofatocs, 2 small turnips, 2 small carrots. Wash and peel the vegetables, scoop out with vegetable scoop, a little larger than a pea, blanch and boil each kind separately in some clear stock, drain, and keep hot in consomme until wanted.198 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme a la Talma. 3|- pints consomme (clarified double broth), i-J- oz. Jordan almonds, 1 oz. bitter almonds, pint of milk, 2 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, a little butter, _i oz. rice, and seasoning. Blanch and peel the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound till quite fine, add the milk, mix thoroughly, and press through a tammy cloth or strong napkin. Break the eggs into a basin, add the yolks, and whisk well. Strain the eggs into the almond milk, season with pepper and salt, mix well, and pour into well-buttered plain charlotte or timbale mould. Put the mould into a stewpan containing boiling water to about half the height of the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and let simmer until the custard is firm enough to turn out. Let it cool in a mould, then turn on to a wet cloth, and cut the custard into half-inch squares or dice. Meanwhile blanch the rice, par-boil in slightly salted water, drain, cool, and finish cooking the rice in clear stock. Put a handful of boiled rice and the custard in a soup-tureen, pour the boiling consomme over, and serve. Consomme a la Tomate. pints of good stock, 3 good-sized ripe tomatoes, a small carrot, turnip, onion and celery, J lb. of lean beef (shin or leg), a bouquet garni, consisting of thyme, parsley, marjoram, bay-leaf, a few peppercorns, and allspice, 1 lump of sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs ; a little carmine if found necessary to bring up the colour. Free the stock from fat and sediment, put into a clean stewpan, and add the carrot, turnip, onion, celery (previously prepared), the tomatoes cut up in quarters, the bouquet garni, and allspice. Chop the meat or pass it through the mincing machine, mix with a little cold water, and put it with the other ingredients, and add the whites and shells of eggs slightly beaten. Whisk frequently until it begins to boil, allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove for about three-quarters of an hour ; then strain, re-heat, and serve. Grated cheese is generally handed with this soup. As a garnish, macMoines of vegetables may, if liked, be added to the soup. Consomme a laTortue [Clear Turtle Soup made with Dried Turtle). J; lb. best sun-dried turtle, ij gallon good stock, 2 small carrots, 2 turnips, 2 sticks celer^q i leek, 3 onions, 4 cloves, 20 peppercorns, 2 blades of mace, a bouquet of herbs consisting of parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, and marjoram, ^ lb. lean beef, J lb. veal, 4 whites of eggs, ^ lemon, 2 glasses of sherry, i glass of brandy, salt, cayenne. Wash the turtle in cold water, and put to soak in cold water for three or four days, changing the water each day. Prepare the vegetables, tie up peppercorns, mace, and cloves in a piece of muslin. Put the turtle in a large stewpan with the stock, add the vegetables, herbs, and muslin bag as soon as the stock boils and the scum is removed. Let it cook gently from eight to ten hours. Remove the fat, strain off the stock, put the turtle on a dish, and, when cool, cut it into convenient pieces. Cut off the skin, fat, and sinews from the beef and veal, chop it very fine, or pass twice through a mincing machine. Mix thoroughly with the whites of eggs and the shells of three, add the juice of half a lemon, a sprig of tarragon and199 SOUPS {POTAGES). chervil, stir in the stock, let it come to a boil, and allow to simmer gently for a good hour. Strain carefully through a cloth, reboil, add the wine and brandy and turtle meat, season with salt and a pinch or two of cayenne pepper, and serve. Consomme a la Toscane. Prepare a chicken consomme well clarihed and not coloured, cook separately in salted water some Perles du Nizam, drain when done, and add to the consomme. Shred also very hnely the red part of a large carrot and some sorrel leaves, toss in butter, and cook in stock. Add these as garnish to the soup a few minutes before serving. Consomme Grand Veneur. 2 quarts rich clear consomme (made in the usual way), 2 whites of eggs, T tablespoonful of cream, 2 large truhies, i small firm lettuce, i small head of white celery, carmine colouring, pepper and salt, tarragon and chervil. Mix the whites of eggs with the cream, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, strain through a pointed strainer into a well- buttered plain mould, and poach in the oven till quite hrm. Let cool, unmould, and cut into hne julienne strips, or very small cubes of even size. Cut the truffles into similar shapes, put them in a saucepan with a little sherry and heat up. Trim and wash the lettuce and the celery, cut the hearts into hne shreds, cook sepa- rately in salted water, strain, and keep hot. Put all the ingredients, together with a few tarragon and chervil leaves, hnely chopped, into the consomme, season to taste, let it come to the boil, skim, and pour into the soup-tureen. Consomme Villars, Prepare 3 pints of rich stock of veal and fowl, and the usual stock vegetables. Clarify with a tomato mirepoix, including the usual clarifying material of lean beef, white of egg. Season care- fully and boil up with a glass of sherry, and about a dessertspoonful of arrowroot to form a light liaison. Garnish with hnely cut asparagus points (new or sprue), carrots (scooped out in pea shapes), shreds of tomato hllets, and very small chicken quenelles mixed with chopped pistachios, and poached. Consomme Xavier. 2 or 3 quarts consomme, 3 oz. flour, i oz. butter, i egg, i oz. grated cheese, 3 gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the milk and butter in a stewpan, stir in the hour when boiling, stir quickly over the hre until the mixture becomes thick and smooth. Add the cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere is best), season with pepper and salt, work up well, and let cool. Beat up the egg and work into the mixture. Three parts hll a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a plain pipe with this paste, close up the large end, press out some large pea-shapes on to a buttered saute-pan, pour on a little boiling water, and poach for hve minutes. Drain on a sieve, and add to the hot consomme about ten minutes before serving.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 200 ABBREVIATED RECIPES. Bouillon Alsacienne.—Beef and ham broth, garnished with dice shapes of potatoes, julienne of leeks and cabbage, and sippets of bread. — Ancienne.—Beef broth with small pieces of beef and vegetables as garnish, small crofitons of bread served with cheese (gratine). — de Boeuf,—Beef broth, plain or garnished with soup vegetables. — Bonne Femme.—Beef broth with usual vegetables, garnish and dice shapes of cooked potatoes. — Ecossaise.—IMutton broth with small pieces of lean mutton and vegetables, and pearl barley as garnish. Henri IV.—Beef and chicken broth, garnished with pieces of fowl, cooked rice, and soup vegetables. — Hotchepot.—Beef broth, garnished with small pieces of ox-tail and ox-palate cooked in the broth, and the usual garnish of vegetables. — Marmite or Petite Marmite is a simply-made, but rich, broth of beef and fowl or mutton cooked in an earthenware soup pot (marmite), and as a rule served in large or small hreproof earthenware soup pots. — aux (Eufs.—Beef broth with beaten egg, usually served in cups. — Parisienne.—Beef broth, enriched with chicken boiled in it, garnished with usual soup vegetables—cabbage, etc., and pieces of beef ; baked breadcrumbs handed separately. Consomme a I’Africaine.—This is a rich clear chicken soup flavoured with curry before being clarified ; when ready, garnish it with cooked rice and small shreds of cooked artichoke bottom. — a I’Alexandra.—Chicken consomme with tapioca liaison, small chicken quenelles, fine strips of hard boiled egg-white, and lettuce. — a I’Ambassadrice.—Chicken consomme, garnished with three different kinds of royal custards cut into round cubes—i.e. tomato, truffle, and green pea purees, also shreds of mushrooms and chicken fillet. — a I’Ancienne.—Chicken consomme, garnished with small chicken quenelles and fried bread croutons coated with cheese. — a I’Andalouse.—Clarified chicken stock with tapioca (i quart to | oz. tapioca). Garnitures : small rounds of tomato, cucumber cubes, and small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — a I’Aurore.—Clear soup, flavoured and coloured with tomato, thickened with tapioca, and garnished with finely cut chicken fillers. — a la Bagration (Maigre).—A richly flavoured clear soup, garnished with small fish quenelles, vegetable, and prawns. — a la Baviere {Bavarian).—A clear soup with very small semolina dumplings. — a la Belle-Fermiere.—Rich clarified chicken stock, garnished with lozenge shapes of cabbage, French beans, and nouille paste (poached). — a la Benjamin LeQois.—Rich chicken consomme, garnished with green peas, small cubes of truffle, and royal custard containing chicken puree. — a la Bohemienne.—Clear soup with cubes of royal custard and foie-gras, also small profiterolles.SOUPS (POTAGES). 20 T Consomme a la Bouquetiere.—Clear soup, garnished with spring vegetables daintily cut and cooked separately. — a la Bourbon.—Chicken consomme, garnished with chicken farce quenelles, lieur-de-lys shaped slices of truffle, and pearl l:)arley. — a la Caroline.—Prepare a rich l)ut rather pale-coloured consomme (as directed on p. i8o), garnish it with Carolina rice, plainly boiled, royal custard (p. i8o) and cooked chicken fillets, both cut into very small dice. — a la Chasseur.—Prepare a clear, game-flavoured soup (p. i8g), garnish it with small game quenelles poached in stock or consomme. — a la Chateleine.—Make a clear soup (p. i8o), flavour it slightly with tarragon leaves, garnish it with royal custard (p. i8o), green peas, and cooked French beans cut into short pieces. — aux Choux farcis.—Prepare a clear soup (p. i8o), garnish it with cooked stuffed Brussels sprouts. — a la Claremont.—Make a clear soup (p. i8o), garnish it with royal custard (p. i8o), and very small fried onion rings. — a la Dante.—Clarify some beef stock in which two or three roast pigeons have been cooked ; make a garniture composed of very small darioles of chicken farce (p. i8i) in two colours—i.e. white and yellow—the latter coloured with saffron ; serve these with the consomme, which should be garnished with finely shredded truffles and ox-tongue. — a la Daumont.—Clarify 3 pints of beef stock, add to it i oz. of fine tapioca, boil for fifteen minutes, and garnish with preserved mush- rooms and cooked ox-palate cut into very fine julienne strips. — aux Diablotines.—This is clarified beef stock with very small, thinly cut, baked bread-crusts coated with melted cheese and sprinkled with cayenne. — a la Duclair.—Prepare a clear soup (p. 180), make some small thin pancakes, spread them on one side with savoury forcemeat, place them together in twos, cut in lozenge shapes, and poach in the consomme. — a la Dubelloy.—Clarify 3 pints of chicken stock (p. 187), garnish with royal custard (p. 180), green peas, and a tablespoonful of cooked rice. — a la Duchesse.—Prepare 3 pints of clear chicken soup (p. 187), stir in a tablespoonful of sago and boil for twenty minutes ; add cooked shredded chicken breast as garnish. — a I’Ecossaise (Scotch Broth).—This is clarified mutton broth in which pearl barley and the usual soup vegetables cut into dice have been cooked. — a I’Estragon.—Prepare a clear soup (p. 180), flavour and garnish it with tarragon-leaves. — Florentine.—Prepare a clear soup (p. 180), and garnish it with very small parmesan cheese quenelles fried in fat or poached in stock. — Fermiere.—Prepare a consomme (p. 180), cook in it a garnish composed of young carrots, spring cabliage, leek, potatoes, and turnips, cut into thin triangular-shaped slices.202 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Consomme de Gibier.—This is clear game soup, the same as described on p. 189. When finished add some dice-shaped pieces of cooked game. — d’Abatis de Gibier.—Prepare a good stock, to which add some game giblets previously fried in butter. Cook the stock for another hour or so, skim off the fat, strain and clarify in the usual manner. Strain, and serve with any suitable garnish. — a la Grimaldi.—Clear soup with pronounced tomato flavour and celeriac julienne strips. — a la Hombourg.—Clear soup with small calf’s liver quenelles, round slices of beef marrow, and pronounced paprika flavour. ~ a la Hongroise.—Clear chicken soup with tomato flavour, strips of tomatoes tossed in butter, and paprika seasoning. — a la Imperiale.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with whole poached yolks of eggs and shreds of ham and truffles. — a ITndienne.—This is clear mulligatawny soup (p. 193) served with plainly cooked rice. — a la Juliette.—Clarify some chicken stock (p. 187), prepare a garnish consisting of very small chicken quenelles, green peas, royal custard (p. 180), cut in cubes, tiny rounds of truffle, and lozenge shapes of hard-boiled white of egg. Add these to the soup a few minutes before serving. — aux Macaroni.—Cook in salted water some macaroni or spaghetti cut into short pieces, and garnish with it the consomme. — a la Magenta.—A rich clear soup flavoured and coloured with ripe tomatoes (see “ Consomme a la Tomate,” p. 198), to which’macedoine of vegetables is added as garnish. — Maigre.—This name is given to any kind of clear soup (Lenten soup) made with fish stock and vegetables or vegetable stock made with- out meat. The soup is clarified with whites of eggs and vegetables, and garnished according to taste. — Maintenon.—Clear soup with strips of tomato and leeks, served with small toasted cheese croutons. — Mancelle.—Clarified beef and veal stock, garnished with dice shapes of roasted chestnuts and julienne strips of cooked game or poultry. — Mercedes.—Rich clear soup with star shapes of cocks’ combs and cucumber, flavoured with Xeres wine. — Messaline.—Clarified chicken broth with tomato essence, garnished with cocks’ kernels, Carolina rice, and Spanish pimientos cut in julienne. — Metternich.—This is clarified beef stock flavoured with chicken, garnished with cooked peeled tomatoes cut into dice, and chicken fillets cut into fine shreds. — Mirenmare.—To three pints of chicken consomme (p. 187) prepare the following garnish : Fry one tablespoonful of plainly cooked rice in lobster sauce, six blanched oysters cut in dice, one shredded truffle, and six chopped pistachios, and the whole moistened with white sauce and cheese as for salpicon. With it fill eight very small shell- shaped thin paste crusts. Heat them in the oven, and hand round with the consomme.203 SOUPS (POTAGES). Consomme Milanaise.—Prepare a consomme soup, garnish it with plainly cooked rice, dice shapes of ox-tongue, and shreds of ripe tomatoes ; the latter should be boiled in the consomme. — Moelle de Boeuf {Beef Marrow Soup).— This is a clear soup containing small marrowfat quenelles poached in stock. — Monaco.—Prepare a clear soup and garnish it with fried bread quen- elles, the interiors of which are stuffed with chicken farce. — Napolitaine.—Prepare a game-flavoured clear soup, “ Consomme de Gibier,” as directed on p. i8g. Garnish it with boiled macaroni, fine shreds of celery, and cooked lean ham. — Nouveau Regne.—Prepare a rich chicken consomme (p. 187), also a special kind of chicken quenelles made by having cubes of richly flavoured aspic and gold leaf introduced prior to being cooked, these quenelles being put into the soup just at the moment of serving. — d’Orleans {Maigre Soup).—Prepare a rich fish stock, clarify it in the usual way, and garnish with small fish quenelles (p. 177) and green peas. — aux CEufs files.—Prepare a consomme (p. 180), beat up an egg, and run through a colander whilst the soup is boiling, cook for a few seconds, and serve. — Olga.—This is clarified chicken soup (p. 187) containing as garnish julienne strips of chicken breast, ox-tongue, aud truffles, also green peas. — au Pain de Foie.—This is clear soup (p. 180) garnished with small liver quenelles (p. 178), which must be poached after being shaped. — aux Petits Navets.—Prepare some consomme (p. 180), garnish it with olive-shaped young turnips, par-boiled, strained, and braised. — Pierre le Grand.—This is a kind of julienne clear soup, with julienne strips of lettuce, turnips, celery, and champignons. These are blended with a little butter before being cooked in the consomme. — aux Pointes d’Asperges.—This is consomme clear soup, garnished with cooked asparagus points. — Printaniere {Spring Soup).—This is a richly flavoured vegetable consomme, garnished with finely cut spring vegetables, cooked separately, and added to the soup half an hour Irefore serving. — aux Profiteroles.—This is consomme or clear soup with very small cheese choux-paste fritters, shaped like small marbles, fried in deep fat. They must not be added to the soup until the last moment ; they are frequently handed round separately. — aux Queues de Boeuf {Clear Ox-tail Soup).—Prepare a rich beef stock, and clarify it in the usual way. The ox-tail is cooked with the stock and added as garnish with the consomme and cooked in it for some time : flavour with sherry, and garnish with vegetable macedoine. - Rachel.—This is a richly flavoured clear soup with small chicken quenelles, dice of tongue, and truffles. — Renaissance.—Clarify some consomme stock in the usual way, and add as garnish cooked sliced white mushrooms, green peas, rice, and small cheese croutons (separate). See p. 180.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 204 Consomme au Riz.—This is a consomme or clear soup garnished with plain boiled rice. — Rossini.—Consomme double, garnished with very large macaroni, boiled, drained, and forced with foie-gras cream, poached, and cut into small, short pieces. — Rothschild.—Game consomme, garnished with hnely cut pheasant fillets, chestnuts, and strips of truffles. — Russe (Russian Gravy Soup).—Prepare a clear soup or consomme, add to it finely cut slices of carrots, beetroot, celery, and leeks cooked separately and added to the soup half an hour before serving. Flavour with beetroot juice, and season. — au Semoule.—This is clear soup with evenly-grained semolina cooked m the consomme. — Sarah Bernhardt.—Prepare a rich chicken consomme (j). 187), garnished with small chicken quenelles, crayfish tails, fine tapioca, and tiny bits of blanched beef marrow. — a la Santos-Dumont.—This is chicken consomme (p. 187) containing Brazilian tapioca. Garnish it with carrots cut in small olive shapes, French beans cut in julienne strips, and turnips scooped out into ])ea shaj)es. These are cooked separately and added to the soup half an hour before serving. — St. Saens.—This is a delicately flavoured chicken consomme, garnished with fine pearl barley and small dice of black-skinned potatoes known as “ pommes de terre negresse.” — Tortue-Fausse (Clear Mock Turtle).—Clarify a richly flavoured veal stock in which half a calf’s head has been cooked. Cook in the consomme some small, evenly cut pieces of the calf’s head, flavour with sherry or Marsala, and season to taste with turtle, herbs, etc. — aux Vermicelles.—Add to 3 pints of clear soup or consomme I oz. of vermicelli boiled in salted water, and well drained. Bring the soup to the boil, and serve. — Vietrich.—Clarify some good veal stock, and serve with garniture of nouilles (p. 134), carrots, turnips, and French beans, cut in fine shreds and boiled till tender. — Vitellus.—This is a clear chicken-flavoured soup thickened with pearl barley, and garnished with lozenge strips of nouille paste (p. 134), boiled in water or stock before being added to the soup. — froid a la Vivian.—This is a cold chicken consomme (p. 187) garnished with small dice-shaped cooked cucumber, slices of peeled tomato, and lettuce leaves (previously boiled), also cubes of royal custard made with aspic cream (p. 147), and cut out when set.SOUPS (POT.IGES). 205 PUREES (CREAM AND OTHER THICK SOUPS). FISH SOUPS Bisque d’Ecrevisse [Crayfish Soup). 3 to 4 dozen crayfish, 3 boned anchovies, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, i small onion stuck with 2 cloves, 2 quarts fish stock, i French dinner roll, i gill cream, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper. Take out the gut from the centre fin of the tail of each crayfish, shell the fish, put the shell and half the tails in a mortar, pound very finely with the anchovies, and add the bntter. Pnt the whole in a stewpan, stir with a wooden spoon till hot, then add the rice, previoitsly washed and drained, fry a little, and moisten with the fish stock. Now add the onion and cloves, and let simmer till the rice is quite tender, stirring frecpiently. Soak the soft part of the roll in a little milk, and add this to the soup. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, season to taste, re-heat and add the cream. Just before serving add the lemon-juice and the crayfish tails, and hand small fried bread croutons or small sippets of toasted bread. A little lobster spawn or lobster butter may be added to the soup if liked. Bisque de Homard Mariniere [Lobster Bisque). 2 small lobsters, 3 oz. butter, i carrot, i onion. 2 stems celery, a bouquet garni, 4 oz. Hour, 2 quarts fish stock, pint oyster liquor, t pint white wine. 2 oz. lolister butter, cream, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence, i doz. button onions, t doz. oysters. Remove the meat, eggs, and coral from the lobsters, cut the meat into dice and put it aside until wanted. Bruise the lobster- shells in a mortar ; heat up the butter in a stewpan, put in the carrot, onion, celery (all sliced), and the bouquet garni. Fry slightly in the butter for a few minutes, then add the bruised lobster- shell, together with the flour ; moisten with the fish stock, oyster liquor, and half a pint of white wine. Let it simmer for a good half-hour, stir, and skim well, strain, finish with the lobster butter, a little cream, lemon-juice, and anchovy essence. Season with salt and cayenne. Have ready the button onions boiled in fish stock, put them, together with the dice of lobster meat and oysters cut into dice, into a soup-tureen ; pour on the soup, and serve. N'ie.—For ordinary Lobster Bisque omit the garnish, and add a little cream about ten minutes before serving. Bisque de Homard Parisienne [Parisian Lobster Soup). I lobster, \ carrot, -i- turnip. 4 oz. butter, i gill white wine, 2 oz. flour, I bouquet garni, 2 quarts fish stock, seasoning (4- teaspoonful lemon-juice, cayenne, peppercorns, and salt), 1 giH cream. Split the lobster down the back, take out the meat, break the claws, pound the shell in a mortar until quite fine, then add the butter, and mix thoroughly with the pounded lobster-shell. Put all in a stewpan, and stir over the fire until hot, add the flour, and206 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. let cook for ten minutes ; moisten with the wine and stock, add the vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns, stir until it boils, let simmer slowly for twenty minutes. If found too thick, add a little more stock. Pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the meat of the claws of lobster into neat dice, put them in a soup-tureen, together with half a gill of cream. Heat up the bisque, season to taste with salt, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne, stir into the tureen, and serve. The remainder of lobster meat will come in for cutlets, croquettes or bouchees. Bisque aux Huitres {Oyster Souf). 2 dozen sauce oysters, i oz. butter, i shallot, i slice of onion, i saltspoonful curry powder, 3 pints fish stock {or mutton or veal broth), i large table- spoonful cornflour, 2 egg-yolks, -f- pint cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Blanch the oysters in a small saucepan with their liquor, then drain, preserving the liquor. Beard half the oysters, and cut them into quarters, pound the remainder with the beards in a mortar to a smooth paste, and rub through a sieve. Chop the shallot and onion. Fry them in butter, just long enough to blend, without taking colour, add the curry powder, cornflour, and oyster puree, and moisten with the liipior of the oysters and the stock. Stir till it boils, simmer for about twenty minutes, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Now mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and incorporate with the soup, stir long enough over the fire to bind the former. Pass the whole through a tammy cloth. Return to the stewpan, add the quarters of oysters, re-heat, and serve. Puree aux Huitres {Oyster Soup). 2 dozen large sauce oysters, 2 yolks ot eggs, 2I quarts stock (white or fish), 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. blitter, i pint cream or milk, C lemon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Beard the oysters, preserve the liquor, cut them into halves or quarters, and put in a basin with a little cream. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and cook a little, moisten with the stock, add the beards of the oysters and the liquor, stir over the fire until it boils, skim and let simmer for half an hour, season with a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of ground mace. Put through a sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the cream or milk. Mix the yolks of eggs with the oysters, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and put with the soup. Heat up, but do not let it boil again. The soup is then ready for table. Bisque de Petoncles {Scallop Soup) 18 scallops, 4 oz. of butter, i small onion, 2 oz. Hour, i bouquet garni, 1 gill of cream, il quarts fish stock, i quart of milk, salt and pepper, 2 blades of mace, fried bread croutons, 6 peppercorns. Put the scallops in a stewpan with the fish stock, bouquet garni, half a dozen peppercorns, and the mace. Boil for twenty minutes, strain off the stock, and save for further use. Put aside the parsley and herbs, mace, and peppercorns, and chop the scallops finely. Peel and chop the onion, cover with boiling water, boil for five minutes, strain, put them in a stewpan with the butter, and cook207 SOUPS {POTAGES). until tender. Add the hour, stir well for a few minutes, moisten with the stock, and add the milk (boiling), put in the chopped scallops, stir over the hre until it boils, and let simmer for fifteen minutes. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, rub through a fine sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream and a little more milk if found too thick, give it another boil, pour into a soup-tureen, and serve with fried bread croutons. VEGETABLE PUREES AND CREAM SOUPS Creme d’Asperges, Printaniere {Asparagus Cream). I bundle asparagus, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Hour, 3 pints white stock, i pint milk, pepper, nutmeg, salt, sugar, i gill cream, a handiul of cooked green peas and beans. Clean the asparagus, cut off the tips, cook separately and put aside, as they will be required for garnish. Cut the stalks, as far as tender, into small pieces, wash thoroughly in salted water, boil till partly cooked in salted water, and drain. Put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the flour, cook a little, stir in the stock and milk, let it boil up, skim, add the asparagus stems, season with saltNpepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of sugar. Cook till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to stewpan, add cream, and a little more milk if needed. Put peas, French beans,'and cooked asparagus tips (about a handful of the latter) in a soup tureen, pour the puree over, and serve. Creme d’Artichauts {Green Artichoke Soup). 4 green artichokes, i onion, i quart white stock, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. creme de riz (or ground rice), | pint milk, -i- gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley. Cut off the stems of the artichokes, trim off some of the green leaves, cut each in four, and wash well. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, add the onion, peeled and sliced, fry a little, put in the arti- chokes, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let them take colour. Add the stock, season with salt and pepper, and let simmer until tender. Rub all through a hair sieve. Mix the creme de riz or ground rice with a little cold milk, boil up the re- mainder of the milk, and add to the rice-flour. Put this and the artichoke puree in a stewpan, let it boil up, take off the scum, stir frequently to prevent it from burning. Beat the yolks of eggs a little, incorporate with the cream, and add to the soup when the latter has sufficiently boiled. Add a grate of nutmeg, stir long enough to bind the eggs, but on no account allow it to boil again. Pour into a soup-tureen, sprinkle over with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve. Puree de Betterave {Beetroot Soup). I quart stock, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i small onion, i or 2 cooked beetroots (according to size), i gill cream, salt and pepper to taste, mustard and cress as garnish. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry in it the onion (peeled and sliced). Do not allow it to brown. Stir in the flour, and fry for a fewTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 2o8 minutes, add the stock, and stir till it boils. Allow to simmer for abont half an hour. Peel and slice linely the beetroot, sprinkle it with a little salt, pepper, and mixed vinegars (Orleans, tarragon, and very little chilli), just enough to cover the beetroot slices. Add root and vinegar to the soup and cook for hfteen minutes—not longer, otherwise the colour is spoiled. Pass the soup through a hair sieve, but rub only about half the beetroot through it. If too much beetroot juice is added the soup will be too sweet. Then re-heat, pour into a soup-tureen, and put some hnely cut mustard and cress on the soup. Puree de Choux de Bruxelles {Brussels Sprout Soup). 1 i lb. Brussels sprouts, 3 pints of good stock, i gill cream, i tablespoonful Brown & Poison’s cornllonr, a small piece of soda, salt, pepper, and gflited nutmeg. Wash and trim the sprouts, cook them till tender in salted water containing a very small jhece of soda (to preserve the colour), drain well, and rub through a hne sieve. Put the puree in a stew- pan with the stock and the cornflour—previously mixed with a little cold stock—boil up, and let simmer for ten minutes, take off the scum, season to taste, add the cream. Keep hot until wanted for table ; but on no account let the soup boil again after the cream is once added. Creme de Celeri {Celery Cream). 2 heads young celery, I- small onion, peeled and sliced, 2 oz. butter, oz. Hour, I quart white stock, t, pint cream or milk, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of castor sugar. Wash and trim the celery, blanch it in slightly salted water, drain, cool, and cut up into small pieces. Melt the butter, when hot put in the onion and celery and stir over the hre for several minutes. Sprinkle in the flour and stir again for a few minutes, moisten with the stock and cook till tender. Rub all through a hne sieve, return to the stewpan, add the milk or cream, season to taste, and put in a pinch of sugar. Allow it to get thoroughly hot, and serve. A handful of fried bread croutons should be put into the soup-tureen, or else handed round as the soup is served. Creme de Chicoree au Veloute {Chicory Cream). 3 to 4 heads of chicory, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, 4 tablespoonfuls rice, salt, pepper, -J gill cream, i gill milk, 2 egg-yolks, croutons of fried bread. Trim the chicory and wash and drain, cut up rather small and put it in a stewpan with the butter. Cook for several minutes without allowing the chicory to get brown. Wash and drain the rice, add it, and fry a little longer. Now add the stock and cook the whole till the rice and chicory are tender. Rub all through a hne sieve, return to the lire, add the milk, boil up, season to taste, and put in the cream last of all. Whisk up the egg-yolks and add along with the cream. Stir well, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with croutons of fried bread ; these may be put into the soup- tureen or may be handed round.209 SOUPS (POTAGES). Puree de Choux-fleurs {Caiiliflowey Cyeam). 2 small caulillowers, i oz. ci'usheil tapioca, i-l- oz. ground rice (fecule de riz), oz. fresh Initter, i gill cream, i-|- pint milk. 1 pint white stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Wash and trim the cauliflowers, cook them in salted water until tender, strain (keep the water), and rub through a flne sieve. Bring the water in which the cauliflowers have been cooked to a boil, stir in the crushed tapioca, and simmer for twenty minutes. Mix the fecule de riz or ground rice with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of milk with the stock, stir in the ground rice and cook for a few minutes, stirring meanwhile. Mix all together, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, bring it to a boil, add the cream and the butter, stir a little longer, but do not let it boil again. The puree is now ready for serving. Creme de Concombre a la Reine {Cucumbey Cream). 3 large cucumbers, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 pints chicken stock, i pint of milk, I gill cream, 2 egg-jmlks, seasoning, bread croutons. Peel the cucumbers, cut them into quarters, remove the seeds, and slice coarsely. Parboil in salted water, drain, and put in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, let stew for about half an hour, season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Melt the remaining two ounces of butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, cook it without browning, add the cooked cucumber, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, add the milk boiling. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Rub through a fine sieve. Stir cream and yolks of eggs well together, pour in with the puree, return on the fire, stir until the liaison of egg and cream is formed, then pour into a soup-tureen, and serve with croutons. Puree Crecy au Riz {Carrot Soup with Rice). 10 large French carrots, 3 oz. butter, i onion, i leek, 3 quarts stock, i pat of fresh butter, i dessertspoonful sugar, i oz. fecule, 4 oz. rice. Wash and scrape the carrots, shred off all the red part, parboil them for five minutes, drain, dry, and put them in a stewpan with three ounces of butter, one large sliced onion, and the white jtart of a leek. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, add two quarts of stock, season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, and allow it to simmer until the carrots are done. Rub the whole through a fine sieve or tammy. Put it on the fire again, add more stock, the sugar, fresh butter, also one ounce of fecule or cornflour mixed first with a little milk or water. Stir well, allow it to simmer for fifteen minutes, add the rice boiled in beef broth, skim well, and serve with bread sippets either separate or in the soup-tureen. Puree aux Epinards {Spinach Soup). 2 lb. spinach, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i quart white stock, i gill cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Pick and wash the spinach in cold water, drain it well, and put it in a stewpan, season with salt, and cook with very little water till tender. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little without browning. oTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 5 lO Add the stock, and stir till it boils and thickens. Then add the spinach, bring to boil, season with salt and pepper, and let cook for twenty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy, return the soup to the stewpan, and add the cream. Do not let it boil after the cream is added, but keep the soup hot till required for table. Hand round some pulled bread, or serve with thinly cut slices of French rolls baked a light brown colour. Potage a la St. Germain [Green Pea Soup) pint freshly shelled peas (large marrowfats are best), i small bunch parsley, a couple of spring onions, a few sprigs of green mint, i oz. butter, 3-J- pint white stock, i whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful cream, I gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the peas in a stewpan with a quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, the parsley, spring onions, and mint, boil till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, put in the stock and butter, and simmer for fifteen minutes longer, then season to taste and add the cream. Mix the milk with the eggs, beat up, season to taste, and strain into a well-buttered charlotte-mould. Poach in a mould placed in a saute-pan half full of boiling water in the oven till set. Unmould and cut the custard into even-sized cubes. Just before serving add a pinch of sugar and a pat of fresh butter to the soup, put in the custard cubes, and serve. Potage de Haricot blancs [Haricot Bean Puree). i pint haricot beans, lb. onions, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, gill cream, I oz. crushed tapioca, pepper and salt. Soak the beans in water for several hours. Peel and slice finely the onions, fry them in the butter until they acquire a pale brown colour. Strain the beans, put them with the onions, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock, boil up, skim, and cook gently until the haricot beans are quite tender, then rub the whole through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, season to taste, bring it to the boil, and stir in the tapioca, cook for about ten minutes longer, add the cream and keep hot until required for table. Should the puree be found too thick, add a little more stock. Fried bread croutons should be handed round with this soup. Purees de Lentilles [Lentil Soup). i- pint of red lentils, i onion, i stick of celery, 2 oz. butter or dripping, pepper and salt, 3 pints of stock, i carrot, i turnip. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, wash and drain the lentils, put them in the saucepan with sliced onion and vegetables, stir over the fire for five minutes, taking care that they do not brown, then add the stock, and a little salt. Let this come to the boil, skim, and simmer gently until the lentils are done. Pass the soup through a wire sieve or colander. Re-heat, season to taste with pepper and more salt if needed. Potage a la Jackson [Potato Puree). Proceed in the same manner as in the above recipe, using i lb. of potatoes, washed, peeled, and sliced, instead of the lentils, omitting the peas and mint. Add a little grated nutmeg in seasoning the soup.SOUPS {POT.ICES). Potage Faubonne {French Lentil Soup). !, ]>int soaked lentils, i gill white haricot beans, 2 cinarts ot stock, 3 oz. blitter, I boiiqiiet garni, i gill cream, a handful of fried bread crofitons, 3 tablcspoonfiil.s cooked jK-as, a ]>inch ]iowdered mint, pepper and salt. Drain the lentils, pnt them with the haricot beans in a stew- pan with the bntter and bouquet of herbs, fry a little, moisten with the stock, and cook until the lentils and beans are tender. Take ont the bonqnet, mb through a sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream and mint, season to taste, heat up (btit do not let it boil), put the peas and croutons in a soup tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. Potage a la Madeleine. 2 oz. blitter, I onion, 6 small tomatoes, i pint haricot beans, i leek, i large carrot, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 2J quarts consomme or good lich stock, seasoning. Cook the haricot beans in salted water till tender. Peel and mince the onion and fry for a few minutes in butter, but do not allow them to get brown. Add the tomatoes, previously cut into dice, the haricot beans, and the stock. Cook together for twenty minutes, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Clean and trim the leek and carrot, cut them into julienne-shaped strips and toss in a little butter. Add about a pint of consomme, and cook till the vegetables are tender. Mince finely a few tarragon and chervil leaves and add them to the soup. Mix both soups together, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, boil up, skim, and serve. Puree de Marrons Chasseur {Chestnut Puree). Split 2 pints of large chestnuts across with a sharp-pointed knife, plunge them into a stewpan with boiling water, cook two minutes, drain, dry them on a cloth, put into a frying-pan with a small piece of butter, place over a quick fire for five minutes, cover over with a cloth, and remove shells while hot. Return them to the stewpan with 2 quarts of game stock or dark beef stock. Cook slowly until tender, rub through a fine sieve, return to the stewpan, dilute with more stock if necessary, season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar and grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire until it boils, add by degrees 4 oz. of butter, and bind with 3 egg-yolks and ^ gill cream. Serve with croutons of game and fried bread (any kind of game will do). Puree Nivernaise {Turnip Puree). 2?, quarts white stock, 8 small turnips, 6 small potatoes, 3 leeks, ^ pint cream, 2 oz. butter, 18 small cooked Brussels sprouts, ^ pint cooked jardiniere, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Wash and peel the potatoes and turnips and cut into slices, wash the leeks, trim off the root and the green part of the leaves, and slice thinly. Put the butter and vegetables in a stewpan, and cook over a slow fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring them occasionally. Add the stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, boil gently until the vegetables are tender, take off the scum, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 212 stir in the cream, keep hot bnt not boiling. Heat np the Brussels sprouts and jardiniere of vegetables in a little stock, strain, and pnt in a soup-tnreen, ponr over the pnree, and serve. Potage Creme d’Orge {Barley Soup with Cream). oz. pearl barley, 3 pints of white broth (stock), 3 oz. butter, grated nutmeg, a gill of cream, a pinch of sugar, pepper, salt, and fried bread croutons. Wash the barley in several waters, put it in a stewpan with the broth or stock, stir over the hre until it boils, let simmer slowly for half an hour, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the cream to the soup together with a pinch of sugar and the butter, stir again until it is thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again. Place the croutons (previously prepared and fried in butter) in a small dish, and serve with the soup. Potage a TOseille [Sorrel Soup). I lb. pickled sorrel-leaves, 4 oz. butter, 3 pints stock, i J gills cream, 3 yolks of eggs, oz. fecule de riz or potato flour, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar, a handful fried bread croutons. W'ash thoroughly the sorrel-leaves, tear them into little pieces, removing the stalks and part of the ribs, cut it in fine shreds, put in a stewpan with the butter, and stir over the fire until it is well blended and partly cooked. Sprinkle over the fecule or potato flour, add the stock—or, if wanted for a “ soupe maigre,” use water in place of stock. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, take off the scum, mix the cream and egg-yolks thoroughly, add it to the soup, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar to taste. Keep stirring until quite hot, but do not let it boil again. Put the bread croutons in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. Puree de Pommes de Terre [Potato Soup). I lb. of potatoes, 2 oz. dripping or butter, i pint of milk, i onion, i J pint of stock or water, salt and pepper, i tablespoonful of tapioca or semolina. Wash, peel and slice the potatoes, peel and slice the onion, melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the vegetables, and cook them for five minutes, taking care that they do not brown, then add the water and enough salt and pepper to taste. When this comes to the boil skim it, and let it boil until the vegetables are tender. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, add the milk, and when boiling sprinkle in the tapioca or semolina cook for another ten minutes- longer, and serve. Puree de Poireaux a la Creme [Leek Puree). I bunch (6) leeks, 2 oz. butter, i pint bechamel sauce, i quart white stock, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill cream, seasoning, small croutons of fried bread. Choose the leeks as white as possible. Trim and wash them, cut away the green parts and cut the remainder into small pieces. Blanch them in salted water, and drain them. When cool, put them in a stewpan with the butter, stir over the fire for a few minutes without allowing them to brown, then add the stock and boil till tender. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, return the puree toSOUPS (POTAGES). 213 the stewpan, add the bechamel, and cook for another fifteen minutes, stirring from time to time, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. About five minutes before serving whisk up the egg-yolks with the cream and strain into the soup. Stir over the fire till the liaison is formed. Pour the soup into a hot tureen and add the fried bread croutons ; a pat or two of fresh butter stirred into the soup in little bits a few moments before serving it will greatly enrich its flavour. The soup must on no account be allowed to boil again when once the egg-yolks or butter are added. Potage au Potiron {French Pumpkin Soup). 3 lb. ripe pumpkin, 3 oz. butter, i bay-leaf, -J- lb. stale bread, i onion, I quart milk, i quart stock, -J gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, I pinch of sugar, fried bread croiitons. Cut the pumpkin into thick slices, remove the pips, put in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add salt to taste, and boil for five minutes. Strain off the water, rub the pumpkin through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the pulp, stir for a few minutes over the fire, then add the stock, which should be previously boiled. Soak the bread in the milk, peel the onion, and cut into slices. Boil up the milk, bread, and onion, stir it into the soup, add the bay-leaf, cook slowly for twenty minutes, stir occasionally, and remove the scum which rises on the top. Take out the bay-leaf, pass all through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, add a good pinch of sugar, season with salt and pepper, and keep boiling for a few minutes longer. Put the cream in a soup-tureen, stir in the yolks of eggs, pour the soup slowly into the tureen, stirring it with a whisk. Fried bread croutons should accompany this soup, or else some very thin slices of the crust of a French roll should be put in before it is sent to table. Potage de Tomate a la St. Louis. i-t pint tomato sauce, 3 pints clear soup, 2 tablespoonfuls crushed tapioca or I oz. sago. 16 little quenelles of chicken (p. 178), pepper and salt. Boil the sauce and clear soup together, stir in the tapioca or sago, simmer for ten minutes, stirring continually. Season to taste, poach the quenelles, and put with the soup just before serving. Potage a la Tomate maigre {Tomato Soup withoiit Meat Stock). I lb. fresh or preserved tomatoes, fisli-bones and trimmings (those from a brill or plaice will do nicely), if oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, k pint of milk, I onion, i small blade of mace, 3 cloves, i bouquet garni, a tablespoonful of crushed tapioca, pepper and salt. Chop up the fish-bones, put them together with the trimmings in a stewpan, add about 3 pints of water, the onion (peeled and stuck with the cloves), the mace, and bouquet, let it boil, skim, and simmer for about half an hour. Cut the tomatoes into slices, melt the butter in a stewpan, broil them over a bright fire. Strain the fish stock into this, stir the milk into the Hour, and put with the soup. Stir until it begins to boil, skim, and cook slowly for half an hour. Season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, boil again, stir in the tapioca, let simmer for another ten minutes, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 214 Puree de Topinambours {Palestine or Artichoke Soup). 2 lb. Jerusalem artichokes, i turnip, i small onion, small head of celery, 2 quarts stock (white), 2 oz. butter, i pint milk, i lemon, a handful of fried bread croutons, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wash, scrub, and peel thinly the artichokes, put them in a basin of water containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon, peel the turnips and onions, cut them into slices, wash the celery, and cut up small. Melt the butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the turnip, onion, and celery, fry a little without burning, strain the artichokes, and add them. Moisten with the stock and cook gently for about an hour. When tender put through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a clean stewpan, re-heat, add the milk (boiling), season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Serve with the fried bread croutons. POULTRY, MEAT, AND GAME PUREES. Garbure Fanchonette. I pint broad beans, 2 small cabbage lettuces, i handful sorrel, 4 oz. bacon, I leek, 2 oz. butter, i oz. ground rice, 3 pints chicken stock, i gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i dessertspoonful tarragon, chervil, and parsley, 2 .slices cooked ham, seasoning. Shell the beans and boil them in salted water, then drain. Trim and wash the lettuces, leek, and the sorrel, shred the former. Mince the bacon and heat up with the butter, add the lettuce, leek, and sorrel, and cook a little, then add the broad beans. Mix well, and stir in the ground rice. Moisten with the stock and a pint of water, stir till it boils, and let cook gently for ^ of an hour, or till the vegetables are tender. Skin, and rub all through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, re-heat, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Beat up the egg-yolks with the cream, and stir into the hot soup. Stir for a few minutes over the fire without letting the soup boil, then add the chopped herbs, and the ham cut into small fillets or shreds, and serve. Potage Demidoff {Brown Chicken Soup). I fowl, I oz. dripping, 2 quarts espagnole sauce, a mirepoix, i pint stock, I glass Madeira wine, 12 very small braised button onions, i small carrot cut into julienne strips, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 2 truffles, seasoning. Prepare the fowl as for boiling, and cut it into joints. Have ready a mirepoix, consisting of onion, carrot, bay-leaf, bacon, and bouquet garni, fry this in a deep saute-pan for a few minutes, then add the dripping and put in the pieces of fowl. Fry quickly to brown the latter, cover, and cook in the oven till the meat is done. Take up the pieces of fowl, remove the skin and bones, and pound the meat in a mortar till fine. Pour the fat off the mirepoix, and put this with the fowl puree in a stewpan containing the espagnole. Cook for thirty minutes, adding about half the stock, or more if needed. Tammy the soup, return to the stewjian, season to taste, add the wine, and re-heat. Cook the carrot strips in stock, strainSOUPS {POTAGES). 215 and put with the soup, and also the truflles and champignons, previously cut into cubes or julienne shapes (strips). Boil up, skim, and serve with the braised onions previously placed into the soup-tureen. Potage a la Duchesse. 2 quarts chicken stock, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 oz. rice, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 tablespooufuls cooked sorrel puree, 4 yolks of eggs, i gill cream, 2 truffles, pepper and salt, nutmeg. Melt the butter, add the hour and rice, and stir for a few minutes over the hre without allowing it to brown. Add gradually the stock, boil up, and cook gently for half an hour. Stir in the sorrel puree, and rub the whole through a hne sieve or tammy. Return to the stewpan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Beat up the egg-yolks, and mix with the cream, strain this into the soup ; cut the truffles and chicken meat ■ into small strips (julienne shapes), and add also ; stir over the hre till thoroughly hot, but avoid boiling, else the eggs will curdle. The soup is then ready for serving. Potage veloute au Riz [Cream of Rice Soup) 1 chicken, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 quarts veal stock, 3 oz. rice, i bouquet garni, i small onion, 2 cloves, i bay-leaf, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Pick, singe, and draw the chicken, and cut into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stewpan, put in the pieces of chicken and fry a golden colour, stir in the hour and cook for a few minutes without browning. Dilute with the stock and about a quart of water. Now add the bouquet garni, the onion, and cloves. Bring it to the boil and cook very gently till the chicken is tender. Take out the best pieces of chicken, remove skin and bone, cut the meat into small dice, and put them in a soup-tureen. Blanch the rice and put it with the soup. Continue to cook for another thirty minutes. Pass through a hne sieve, return to a clean stewpan, season to taste, add a little cream if liked, re-heat, and pour over the chicken dice in the soup-tureen, and serve. Creme de Volaille a la Francaise [French Chicken Cream). 2 quarts chicken stock, roast or boiled chicken, 2 oz. rice, i yolk of egg, r gill cream, 2 oz. fresh butter, i oz. flour, salt, pej^per, grated nutmeg. Wash, pick, and blanch the rice, cook till tender in the chicken stock, strain off enough rice to hll a teacup and keep it till required. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and fry a little without browning, dilute with half a pint of water and the chicken stock, adding also the remainder of rice. Cook gently for about half an hour, rub the soup through a sieve, and return to the stewpan. Remove the skin from the chicken and cut the meat into neat dice, put these into the soup, and cook for another ten minutes. Mix the egg-yolk with the cream and stir into the soup. Add the rice (put aside), and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg.2i6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Potage a la Reine [Puree de Volaille, or Chicken Cream). I medium-sized chicken, 3 quarts stock, 4 oz. bacon, i carrot, i onion, I bunch parsley, thyme and bay-leaf, 3 oz. butter, i oz. almonds, 4 oz. breadcrumbs, quenelle meat, seasoning, 1- pint of milk. Slice the bacon and put in a stewpan together with the vege- tables, herbs, etc. Place the chicken, previously trussed as for boiling, on top, season with pepper and salt, pour in a quart of stock, cover with a lid, and let it reduce slowly. Add the remainder of stock, boil .slowly, skim, and continue to boil until tender. Remove the chicken, free it from skin and bones, and pound in a mortar with breadcrumbs. Season with salt and nutmeg, moisten with the stock, rub through a fine sieve, and return to the stewpan. Peel and pound the almonds, boil in milk, and rub through a napkin. Add this to the soup, along with the broth, just before serving. Serve the soup with a garnish of small chicken quenelles, bead shapes, made with the cornet and poached, also with a handful of freshly-cooked peas or asparagus points. Creme a la Bayonne [Ham Soup). i lb. lean cooked ham, i good-sized Spanish onion, t pint espagnole sauce (p. 148), I oz. butter, i oz. flour, i quart good second stock, i gill cream, I glass sherry or Marsala wine, a little grated nutmeg, salt, pepper. Peel and slice the onion, melt the butter, and fry the onion for a few minutes without browning. Stir in the flour, fry it to a light fawn colour, add the stock, and stir over the fire till it boils. Let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Season to taste, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy cloth. Return to a clean stewpan and keep hot. Pound the ham and espagnole sauce in a mortar, pass through a hair sieve, and add it to the soup. Bring to the boil, stir frequently, and add the cream. The soup is then ready to serve. Small fried bread croutons should be handed round with this soup. Potage de Lapin a I’Oseille [Rabbit Soup with Sorrel). 1 large tender rabbit, ^ lb. shin of beef, i lb. knuckle of veal, J lb. lean bacon, i carrot, i onion, 3 cloves, i leek, i blade of mace, 10 peppercorns, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill of cream, i handful sorrel-leaves, lemon, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut up the rabbit into small pieces, bone the back, and put the two fillets in a sautApan with a handful of bacon cut small and a little butter, fry a little, and cook in the oven till done. Cut the fillets into small dice and keep for garnish. Prepare the vegetables, stick the cloves into the onion, put these together with the pieces of rabbit, bacon, beef, and veal, peppercorns, and mace, into a large stewpan, pour in six quarts of water, boil up, skim, and cook slowly for about three hours. Take off the fat and strain. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little, moisten with three quarts of stock, add the cooked pieces of bacon and about f lb. cooked rabbit meat. Boil for half an hour, stirring occasionally. Rub the whole through a wire sieve. Return to the stewpan, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Wash the sorrel, cut it into line shreds, blanch, strain, and put with the soup. Mix the217 SOUPS {POTAGES); cream with the yolks of eggs and stir into the soup when boiling. Stir over the fire long enough to bind the yolks, but without allowing the soup to boil. Pour into a soup-tureen, sprinkle over a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. Potage Fausse Tortue [Mock Turtle Soup, Thick). ■J small calf’s head, i lb. veal, 2 lb. lean beef, 6 oz. lean ham or l>acon, 4 oz, flour, 3 quarts stock, i gill Madeira wine, i oz. butter, i small onion, I carrot, i turnip, i stalk celery, a few sprigs parsley, i bay-leaf, 4 cloves, I sprig thyme, i sprig marjoram, 10 peppercorns, cayenne pepper, salt, \ lemon. Bone the calf’s head, blanch it, and cook for three or four hours in stock or salted water. Press it between two boards or dishes. Cut the veal, beef, and ham or bacon into pieces, put them in a large stewpan with the vegetables, cleaned and cut into slices, the butter and herbs, stir the whole over a brisk fire until light brown. Stir in the flour, cook until it acquires a light brown colour, moisten with two quarts of liquor in which the calf’s head has been boiled and three quarts of other stock, add the peppercorns, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne, let the whole come to a boil (stir till boiling), take oft the scum, and simmer slowly for three hours. Strain the soup, and let cool. Cut the calf’s head into neat i-inch squares, trim off the fat, put them in a stewpan with the wine, cover with a lid, simmer for a few minutes, then add the strained soup, boil for another thirty minutes, skim well, add more seasoning if needed, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with thin slices of pared lemon. Potage de Faisan a la Diana [Pheasant Puree). I pheasant, i mirepoix of bacon, onion, carrot, and herbs, 2 oz. Initter, 1 oz. flour, ^ gill cream, 2 oz. pearl barley (orge perle), i gill claret, 2 oz. raw ham, i leek, 3 pints good stock, salt and pepper, small game quenelles for garnish (p. 178). Truss the pheasant as for roasting, place it on a roasting-pan with a little dripping and the mirepoix above named. Roast it in the oven till three parts done, then take up the bird, untruss it, and remove the fillets from the breast. Cut the carcase into small pieces and fry in the mirepoix, adding about an ounce of butter and the ham cut up small. Stir in the flour and let it get a chest- nut brown colour, add the barley, and stir the whole a few minutes longer over the fire. Moisten with the wine, and add gradually the stock and about a pint of water. Stir till it boils, skim, and let simmer for about id hour. Pound the fillets of pheasant in a mortar with the remainder of the butter, add the cream, and when suffi- ciently pounded, rub the whole through a fine sieve. Pass the soup through a tammy, return to the stewjfan, add the puree above named, season to taste, re-heat, and serve with some^very small game quenelles. Potage de Perdreaux [Partridge Soup). I or 2 roast partridges, ]- lb. calf’s or chicken livers, 2 tablespooiifuls espagnole sauce. 2 (piarfs of stock, 2 oz. Initter, li oz. flour. 2 oz. bacon, I bo\iquef garni, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 2i8 Remove the fillets from the partridges, cut two of them into small dice. Take off the leg parts of the birds and put away for further use. Chop up carcase. Fry the bacon with a little butter, add the liver finely sliced. Season with pepper and salt, pound in a mortar, add the sauce, season, and rub through a sieve (the two fillets remaining may be pounded with the above if the soup is desired specially rich). Fry the carcase with the bouquet garni in a little bacon fat and the remaining butter. Sprinkle over the flour, stir in the stock. Skim well as it begins to boil. Simmer for about half an hour, stirring occasionally, strain through a tammy, and return to the stewpan with the puree previously prepared, boil up, add a glass of sherry or port, season to taste. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, bind with two yolks of eggs, and add the minced breasts just before serving. Potage de Perdreau, Grand Due [Partridge Puree). t partridge or any other small bird. 4 oz. oatmeal, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 4-6 fresh mushrooms, 3 eggs, 2 quarts white stock, seasoning, gill cream. Remove the fillets from the partridge, cut up the remainder and roast it with a little dripping for about twenty minutes. Fry the oatmeal and butter to a nice colour, add the roasted carcase, etc., fry for a few minutes longer, and moisten with sufficient stock to produce the consistency of a puree. Cook gently for if hour, then season and pass through a fine sieve. Meanwhile pound the fillets of partridge, add the panade and a little white of egg, season to taste and rub through a sieve. Make some little quenelles about the size of small marbles with this, and poach them. Prepare a Royal garnish, which consists of fresh mushrooms cooked in stock and passed through a sieve, mixed with the eggs, steamed in a butter mould, and cut into small rounds. Put these and the quenelles into the prepared puree, add the cream, let the soup get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, then serve. MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS. Beef Tea. I lb. lean beef, i gill cold water, a teaspoonful of Lemco. salt to taste. Shred the meat finely, removing any particle of fat and skin, put it into an earthenware jar with the water and salt and let it stand for half an hour, add the Lemco extract of beef. Cover the jar closely, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for two hours—the water surrounding it must boil all the time. Strain off the beef tea, remove any fat on the top with a piece of clean white paper. The beef tea must not be allowed to actually boil. Cockle Leekie. I small fowl, 2 oz. butter, i bunch leeks, parsley, i bay-leaf, and a few aromatic herbs tied together in a bunch, 2 quarts of clear consomme stock, .salt and pepper. Boiled rice for garnish. Singe and draw the fowl, wipe it inside and out with a damp cloth, and cut it into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stew-219 SOUPS [POTAGES). pan, when hot pnt in the pieces of fowl and fry them a nice brown colour. Pour off all the butter, and add the stock, which must be clear. Add also a pint of water, season with a little salt and pepper- corns, and boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises to the surface. Trim, wash and clean the leeks, cut the white parts into suitable lengths, blanch and parboil in salted water, take up and strain. Remove the pieces of fowl from the soup. Cut these into dice or half- inch lengths, pnt them in another stewpan, strain the broth over it, add the leeks and the bunch of parsley and herbs, cover and let simmer gently for about an hour. Take out the parsley and herbs, skim off the fat, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Served with a handful of plainly boiled rice, and sometimes with stewed stoned prunes. Soupe au Lait [Milk Soup). I pint of white stock, i pint milk, t onion, i oz. flour, i oz. butter, small fried bread croutons, -t gill of cream, i yolk of egg. Blend i oz. butter with i oz. flour and cook for a few minutes with- out allowing the roux to take colour. Peel the onion, mince it, and boil in the milk. Add the stock, which should be well flavoured, and the milk and onion. Bring the soup to the boil and skim it if necessary. The addition of half a gill of cream mixed with the yolk of an egg should be made at the last moment just before serving, when the soup is taken from the Are. It should not reboil after the cream and yolk are added. Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Fried croutons may be served as a garnish ; strips of carrots and leek previously cooked in stock also form a suitable garnish by way of variety. Potage a la MacMahon, I cooked calf’s brain, 2 lioiled onions, i- cucumber, i teaspoonful curry powder, 3 yolks of eggs, oz. butter, i gill cream, 2 quarts of stock, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Peel the cucumber, cut into thick slices, and boil in salted water till tender. Pound the brain and onions in a mortar, add the butter and curry powder, put in a stewpan with the stock. Boil for twenty minutes and run through a sieve. Return to the fire, mix the eggs with the cream, stir into the soup, heat up, season to taste, and serve with the cooked slices of cucumber. Bortsch Polonaise {a Russian Soup). I small duck, i lb. brisket of beef, i bouquet garni, consisting of fennel, marjoram, thyme, bay-leaf, carrot and parsley, 2 cloves, 3 fresh cup mush- rooms, 2 oz. butter, i small beetroot, i leek, i cabbage (heart), i small piece of celery, parsley, i onion, 2 quarts clarified beef broth (white con- .somme), J lb. Italian sausage (cipoleta), sour cream, seasoning. Cook the duck in a brisk oven till tender (not overdone), boil the beef in one quart of seasoned water with the bouquet garni, and skim well. Remove the fillets of the duck, cut them into dice, cut the cooked beef into similar dice, and put them in a clean stewpan with the strained broth in which the beef was cooked. Add the mushrooms, previously washed, and cut in dice. Cut the remainder of vegetables220 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. into fine julienne strips and blend with the butter, pour off the fat, add the consomme, season to taste, cook gently till tender, and re- move the scum and fat. Add this to the broth containing the meat. Cook all together for another ten minutes. The sausage is cut into very thin slices, and is served in the soup or separately. The remain- der of the duck can be used up as salmi or served hot or cold. Add a little chopped parsley to the soup and serve. Just before serving mix two tablespoonfuls of sour cream and one tablespoonful of beet- root juice and serve it in a sauce boat with the soup. Mutton Broth. 2 lb. mutton (scrag end of neck), 2 quarts water, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, \ stick celery, i onion, salt and pepper, i oz. barley or crushed tapioca. Trim off the fat as much as possible from the meat, cut into small neat pieces, put in saucepan, cover with cold water, then add a little salt, and allow it to come to the boil, then skim well. Pre- pare all the vege- tables, cut into small dice, and add to the broth, allow all to cook gently until the meat is tender. HOW TO CUT VEGETABLES FOR MUTTON BROTH. RcmOVe the bones from the meat, cut into dice. Add this and the barley or tapioca to the broth, season to taste with salt and pepper, and continue to cook for another thirty to forty minutes. Serve hot. Tschi de Soldat.— This is the name of the most poptdar soup in Russia. It furnishes the soldier with a satisfying meal, hence the surname “ de soldat.” The following is the recipe as transcribed from the MS. of a Russian chef:— 2 quarts consomme (clarified beef broth), i small cabbage, i leek, 2 small onions, i lb. blanched breast or brisket of beef, i tablespoonful flour, 2~} oz. butter. 3 tablespoonfuls sour cream, .seasoning. Trim and wash the cabbage and the leek, peel the onions and cut all into fine shreds. Use only the heart of the cabbage and the white part of the leek. Melt ij- oz. of butter in a large stewpan, put in the vegetables (previously drained), and cook over a quick ;^re for about five minutes. Pour off the butter and add the consomme. Cook the beef separately in salted water, when done cut the meat, free from skin and gristle, into small pieces, and add to the soup with some of the stock (strained). Cook gently for half an hour. Fry the Hour in the remainder of the butter, add the cream and a ladleful of22T SOUPS {POTAGF.S). the soup, pour all into the stewpan containing the soup, boil up and simmer for ten minutes longer. Season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Hand small galettes, or, failing this, small fried choux paste balls, seasoned with parmesan cheese and cayenne. Potage a la Vitellus. 2 quarts rich chicken ami veal broth (stock), 2 oz. pearl barlej^, i t oz. pistachio nuts, I oz. pigiioli kernels, 2 egg-yolks, i gill cream, i table- spoonful spinach ]niree or a sufficient quantity of spinach greening to give it the desired tint, a handful of nouille lozenges (nouille paste cut into small squares) for garnish, .sea,soning. Wash the barley and cook it in the stock till quite tender, and mb through a fine sieve. Blanch and peel the pistachios, pound them in a mortar with the pignoli kernels, add a little cream and the spinach, and pass thrortgh a sieve. Mix this with the soup and cook for ten minutes, season to taste with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a pinch of paprika. Cook the nouille lozenges in salted rvater for hfteen minutes, drain them, and add to the soup. Mix the remainder of cream with the egg-yolks in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER THICK SOUPS. Potage a I’Americaine {American).—Tomato soup, blended with a little lobster puree (bisque), and thickened with rice or tapioca. — a I’Andalouse.—Light white soup (veal stock foundation) mixed with tomato puree, and nouilles (p. 194) as garniture. — a la Creme d’Avoine {Oatmeal Soup with Cream).—Proceed the same as for Creme d’Orge (p. 212), but substitute pearl barley for oatmeal. — d’Anguilles a I’Allemande {German Eel Soup).—Proceed the same as for oyster soup (p. 206), using 2 small eels in place of oysters and whiting. — des Ambassadeurs.—This is a light cream soup, made with chicken stock, rice, and puree of peas. Finely shredded sorrel-leaves tossed in butter are introduced as garnish. — a I’Argenteuil {Argenteuil Soup).—This is a rich cream rice soup, made as directed on p. 215, with asparagus points as garnish. — a la Bergere.—Tapioca cream, with green asparagus tips, cepes, chervil, and sippets of toasted bread. — Bretonne.—This is a puree of white haricot beans, made w’ith brown stock and flavoured with fried onions, in other respects the same as recipe on p. 210. Serve with croutons of fried bread. -- de Queues de Bceuf {Thick Ox-tail Soup).—Cut up into small pieces an ox-tail, fry them in 2 oz. butter and vegetable (carrot and onion), take out the ox-tail, add i oz. flour, and stir over fire till of chestnut brown colour. Moisten with 3 pints of stock, stir till it boils, add the ox-tail, and cook for about 45 minutes. Strain the soup, and select the best pieces of ox-tail as garnish. Put this in the soup with one glass sherry, and add jardiniere or vegetable macedoine as garnish ; re-heat, and serve.THE NEW CENTUEY COOKERY BOOK. 222 Potage Dame Blanche.—This is white chicken puree with cream, similar to Potage a la Keine. Flavour with sweet almonds, and garnish with cooked pearl barley and royal custard. Bagration {Cream).—A light cream made of veal stock, similar to Potage de Veau, with small chicken quenelles as garnish. — Bonne Femme.—Prepare a Sorrel cream soup as directed on p. 212. When finished add small chicken forcemeat quenelles as garnish. — a la Creme de Ble Vert {Green Corn Soup).—Blend a pint of green corn with I oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of Brown & Poison’s corn- flour, moisten with 3 pints of stock and cook for thirty minutes, strain, and add i gill of cream and 3 yolks of eggs ; re-heat, and serve. — Creme Sevign6.—This is a light chicken puree (Potage a la Reine) prepared as directed on p. 216, with royal custard made with eggs and chicken cream as garnish. — Castelaine.—Prepare a thick brown soup made with beef stock and lean beef fried in butter, thickened with brown “ roux ” and tammied when fully cooked. — Puree de Canard (Duck Soup).—Prepare a thick soup as directed on p. 217, using I duck in place of pheasant. ■— Clementine.—Light chicken cream (see Potage a la Reine, p. 216), and add three-coloured royal custard cut out in small cubes. — Puree a la Chasseur (Hunter's Soup).—Prepare a game puree according to Potage de Faisan, adding minced mushrooms and small dice of cooked game as garnish. — aux Cerises {Cherry Soup).—This is made with sour cooking cherries and a liaison of potato flour mixed with milk and cooked with the cherries, flavoured with cinnamon. Bread croutes as garnish. — a la Capri.—Prepare a thick game soup according to Potage de Faisan, garnish the soup with dice of quail fillets and cocks’ combs. — Dumonteuil.—This is a bisque of crawfish made as directed in Bisque d’Ecrevisse. The soup is blended with tomato puree, egg-yolk, and cream, and is garnished with small fish quenelles. — a I’Espagnole {Spanish Soup).—This is a^ brown beef or mutton soup blended with Espagnole sauce (p. 148) and onion puree. — a I’Ecossaise {Hodge-podge Soup).—National Scotch soup, consisting of mutton broth, finely cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley, sprigs of cauliflower, and green peas. — a la Favourite.—White chicken puree (see Potage a la Reine, p. 216) diluted with consomme. Finely minced carrot, turnip, and leek are tossed in butter, cooked in stock, and added to the soup. — a la Gentilhomme {Gentleman’s Soup, Brown).—This is a puree of rabbit, pork, and ham, garnished with minced sausages and mushrooms. — Gounod.—This is a light green pea puree made with rich chicken stock, otherwise the same as Potage St. Germain, garnished with cooked chicken fillets cut into fine julienne strips. — Prince de Galles {Prince of Wales Soup).—This is a thick mock turtle made as directed in recipe Potage Fausse Tortue (p. 217), garnished with small veal cjuenelles.223 SOUPS (POTAGES). Potage au Pauvre Homme {Poor Man's Soup).—This is brown meal soup, rather thinner than an ordinary puree. The flour is roasted with butter or dripping to a chestnut-brown colour, equal quantities of flour and butter being used ; it is then diluted with stock or water and cooked for one hour. — Istrienne.—Puree of chestnuts and tomatoes, flavoured with juice of pomegranates, and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks and cream (Austrian origin). — a ITtalienne {Italian Soup).—A light mutton or lamb puree, as directed for Potage a la Windsor, p. 225, garnished with cooked macaroni, slices of cooked fowl, fillet or breast, and vegetable macedoine. — Japonnaise.—Puree of crosnes, with cream liaison and Japanese pearl barley. — Jeanette.—Puree of salsifits, enriched with cream and egg-yolk liaison, garnished with rice and small chicken quenelles. — Judic.—Tomato puree with cream and mushroom essence, finely shredded mushrooms and ham as garnish. — Krupnick {Polish).—Cream of pearl barley with chicken puree, gar- nished with small dice vegetables and chicken fillets. — de Langoustes {Crawfish Soup, Pink).—This is a cream-like puree of sea crawfish or large lobsters, made the same as Bisque de Homard. — de Lentilles a la Brunoise.—This is a lentil soup made the same as directed in Puree de Lentilles. Tinely cut vegetables, carrot, turnip, leek, etc., are tossed in butter, strained, and then cooked in the soup. — de Mauviettes St. Hubert.—This is a pale brown cream soup made with veal stock, roux, and braised larks, gai'nished with fillets of larks cut into strips. — a la Marie Louise.—This is a pearl barley soup made as directed in recipe CiTme d’Orge, p. 212 ; it is enriched with cream and garnished with small chicken quenelles. — a la Marechale.—This is a milk soup (niaigre), thickened with soft white bread and garnished with small lobster quenelles. — a la Marie Stuart.—Prepare a white chicken cream similar to that given in recipe for Potage a la Reine (p. 216), to which are added as garnish small cubes of foie-gras pate, cooked carrot dice, and green peas. Potage or Puree Mercedes.—This is a Jerusalem artichoke puree (Puree de Topinambour) enriched with cream and egg-yolks, garnished with dice of artichoke bottoms and chicken fillets. — Montblanc.—A thick soup made of capon, enriched with cream, with shredded truffles and mushrooms. — Montmorency.—Chicken cream soup with grated parmesan, braised lettuce, and vermicelli as garnish. — Montpensier.—Cream of rice soup, blended with cauliflower puree (fried croutons). — Morilles.—Puree of morilles (a species of mushroom), with cream and morilles cut in fine strips. — Mozart.—Puree of French beans blended with game puree and cream (croutons).224 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Potage d’Orleans.—This is a white chicken juiree with finely crushed tapioca as a liaison. — d’Orleans Maigre.—This is a well-seasoned soup made with white bread and milk, thickened with finely crushed tapioca and enriched with cream. — Ostendaise.—White fish soup with oysters, cream liaison, and quarters of oysters as garnish. — Pluche.—Prepare potato soup as directed in Puree de Pommes de Terre ; to this add finely grated carrots (red part only) and herbs, strain and season. — a la Polonaise.—This is a light brown puree of beef and pork, with roux thickening ; cooked sauerkraut is added as garnish. — Palestine.—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes with small fried bread croutons. — a la Parmentier.—A cream-like potato soup made as directed in recipe for Puree de Pommes de Terre, and served with croutons of bread. — Puree de Pois.—This is a-pea soup made like Puree de Lentilles (p. 210), but using dried peas in place of lentils, served with croutons. — aux Queues de Veau a I’lndienne {Indian Calf's-tail Soup).—A thick calf’s-tail souj) made the same as ox-tail soup; but it is flavoured with curry paste or powder and garnished with boiled rice. — Regence {Regent Soup).—Prepare a light chicken puree, similar to that given in recipe for Potage a la Reine ; garnish this soup with mace- doine of vegetables. — de Ris de Veau a la Reine.—This is a white sweetbread soup made the same as directed in Potage a la Reine, using sweetbread in place of chicken. — Riz aux Choux.—This is a light cream of rice, with white cabbage cut in julienne strips, blanched and cooked instock, then added to the soup. — Risotto.—This is a puree of rice, mixed with tomato pulp diluted with rich consomme. — Romeo.—This is a rich Parmentier puree (Potato Soup, p. 212), mixed with half its volume of onion puree (Soubise, p. 160), enriched with cream and egg-yolks ; chervil leaves, poached white of egg, and small dice of ham are added as garnish. — St. Hubert.—Puree of game (hare or other game), with small game quenelles or dice cut fillets of game. — St. Martha.—A blend of green pea, leek, and lettuce purees, with cream liaison. — St. Martin.—Potato puree with sorrel and watercress purees added, cream liaison (croutons). — Sultane.—White chicken puree with pistachios and truffles as garniture. — Suzette.—Puree of cucumber and peas, blended, garnished with poached yolks of eggs. — Souveraine.—Chicken cream soup, enriched with pistachio pounded kernels and butter liaison. — St. Cloud.—Puree of French beans and broad beans, with finely- chopped lettuce.SOUPS (POTAGES). 225 Potage Sylvestra.—Prepare a chicken consomme, as directed on p. 187, blend it with veloutee sauce (p. 161), cream, and egg-yolks ; acid asparagus points and small chicken quenelles stuffed with spinach as garnish. — Bisque de Crevettes [Shrimp Soup).—Prepare a cream-like puree of fish stock and shrimps and prawns. For directions follow recipe for Bisque on p. 205. Substitute shrimps or prawns for lobster. — Sultane.—This is a white chicken puree as directed on p. 216. To this add pounded pistachio kernels and chopped truflles as garniture. — de Sante (Health Soup).—This is a light cream soup, made with finely shredded cabbage, lettuce, and herbs [see Potage Veloutee au Riz). — Semoule [Semolina Soup).—Proceed the same as directed on p. 212, using semolina in place of barley. — aux Truffes.—This is a light puree of fresh truffles, made with veal stock thickened with espagnole (p. 149), enriched with yolks of eggs and cream. — Tyrolienne.—This is barley cream soup made as Potage Veloutee au Riz, to which is added a mixture of hnely minced onions and carrots. — au Velours ( Velvet Soup).—This is a chicken cream soup made as Crfeme de Volaille (p. 215), omitting the flour, and using rice and tapioca as thickening ingredients. — de Veau ( Veal Soup).—Prepare a thick soup with lean veal cut up small, tossed in butter, and cooked in allemande sauce (p. 141), diluted with veal or other white stock. Strain and season. — de Pieds de Veau [Calf’s Feet Soup).—Bone the calf’s feet. Blanch them, and cook in white stock, strain, thicken liquor with white roux (p. 104), add dice or snips of calf's feet, and cook for one hour. Season and finish with cream. — de Vermicelli au Lait ( Vermicelli Soup).—This is a milk soup, prepared as Soupe au Lait, to which is added a handful of blanched and drained vermicelli. — Reine Victoria.—This is a puree of potatoes made as Potage a la Jackson, with sprigs of cooked cauliflower added as garnish. — Valencienne.—This is a white rice cream soup, with a liaison of sago previously cooked in consomme. — Waldstein.—Prepare a rich puree of pheasant made according to Potage de Faisan, mix with it an equal quantity of consomme flavoured with white burgundy, and season with paprika, etc., garnish with chopped truffles and pine or pistachio kernels. — Wellington.—Chicken cream soup, blended with celery puree and rice as garnish. — Reine Wilhelmine.—Prepare a rich chicken puree as Potage a la Reine, using rice for thickening in place of flour. Add cream and egg- yolks, also a garniture of asparagus points and julienne strips of cooked carrots and truffles. — a la Windsor [brown).—This is a thick soup made with lean mutton and beef cut up and fried in butter or dripping, to which is added brown roux (p. 105) and stock. Cook for one Hour, strain, and serve. Add boiled rice as garnish. — Xavier.—Cream of rice soup, blended with chicken puree, garnished with royal custard and chicken fillets cut in dice. P226 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. TABLE DEI.ICACTES AND CONDIMENTS USED IN THE PREPARATION OF HORS-d’CEUVRE. CHAPTER XVI. HORS-D’CEUVRE (APPETISERS). The origin of this interesting course is to be found in the Russian “ Zakuska ” (foretaste), known in Sweden as “ Smogerspud,” where- with these nations preface what is known as a solid repast. In this country, as well as in Russia, and Sweden and Norway, hors- d’oeuvre are served as the commencing course—i.c. the dishes with which a dinner is started. The service of this course in England is, however, not the same as it is in Russia or Sweden, where the various dainties forming the hors-d’oeuvre course are partaken with strong liquors—“ Vodka,” a kind of Russian whisky, or ” Kiimmel.” The English and French do not favour this, and many look upon it with distaste ; it is therefore not likely to become popular at English dinner-tables. There are two classes of hors-d’oeuvre, plain and dressed. The most popular and most highly esteemed hors-d’oeuvre are oysters, when in season, which is for eight months (all the months in which there is an ” r ”) ; they are known as the ” king of hors-d’oeuvre.” Next in popularity to the oyster comes caviare. Oysters are served each in its deep shell, and handed round with quarters of lemons and thin brown bread and butter (daintily shaped), cayenne pepper, and chilli vinegar. Oysters {Huityes).—There are many ways of dressing oysters, either hot or cold, but only one way of serving them, “ an naturel,”nORS-D'CEUVRE (A PPETISERS). 227 which is considered the most popular hors-d’oeuvre. Only the best kinds, natives—W’hitstable or Colchester. Oysters should be served “ an naturel,” i.e. raw. All they need after being opened is to place each oyster on the upper shell with a little of the liquor ; they are then ranged on a dish, garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley, and, if possible, surrounded \vith shaved ice. Some very thinly cut slices of buttered brown bread and quarters of lemon are handed round at the same time ; also Nepaul or cayenne pepper. Caviare is best served iced, but it is sometimes mixed with finely chopped shallots and lemon-juice ; both these ingredients must be used sparingly, and the mixing must be done with a wooden fork or a wooden skewer. Caviare should never be brought in contact with metal. Both oysters and caviare thus served are classed as plain hors-d’oeuvre. Other articles belonging to this class are cucumbers, radishes, olives, pickles, sardines, anchovies, prawns, crayfish, lax, herring-fillets, tunny, smoked salmon, roes, smoked sausages (such as salami, Gotha, Strasburg, Lyons, Brunswick), smoked ham (raw), and other fish and viands of the smoked or pickled description. Many of these, especially the fish, are dressed on canapes (fried or toasted slices of bread daintily cut), but when such is the case they are classed as dressed hors-d’oeuvre. All kinds of sandwiches, daintily prepared, also adapt themselves as hors-d’oeuvre. Butter {Beiiyye).—Fresh butter is usually served at most dinners as an accompaniment with hors-d’rnuvre. It is served in little pats, in the shape of small shells or little rolls (thin slices rolled). Serve in little glass dishes or boats ; in hot weather put a little ice in each boat ; garnish with tiny sprigs of curly parsley. Radishes (Radis).—Choose small, round, and firm radishes of a light red and white colour. Trim and wash them in plenty of water (the outer skins should be scraped off and the leaves cut to an inch in length). Dish up in little boats or glass dishes, wdth a little cold water. Gherkins (Coynichons).—Choose these small, firm, and green, and serve in little glass dishes neatly dressed, moistened with a little French wine vinegar. Olives.—Both Spanish and French olives are suitable as hors- d’oeuvre, the Spanish being the most esteemed ; they should remain on the table until the dessert is served. It is claimed that olives destroy the taste of what has been previously eaten, hence they are so popular a relish. Choose them firm, and of a nice green colour, steep them in cold water before serving ; dish up on small dishes or boats with a little cold water. Never use a metal fork or spoon to dress them. Those left over from a meal should be rebottled at once with salted water, else they will turn black.228 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cucumber {Concombre).,—Peel very thin and cnt np into thin slices, lay the slices on a dish, sprinkle with salt, cover, and let them remain for one or two hours. Drain well, dish up on small glass dishes, season with a little salad oil and French wine vinegar. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve. Salami, Bologna, Brunswick, Lyons, Ham, Tongue, and other Smoked Sausages.—Cut the sausage into very thin round slices, remove the skin, dish up neatly, garnish with fresh crisp parsley. Royans a la Bordelaise.—These are procured packed in oil, usually in tins. Dish up in glass dishes, garnish with some curly parsley. Sardines.—Procure an i8-oz. tin of a well-known brand. Take them carefully out of the tin, drain on a cloth or paper, lay them in small dishes, moisten with a little sweet oil, garnish with capers and sprigs of parsley. Never use the oil out of the tin. Other fish preparations, such as lax, tunny (marine), fillets of herring (sour), etc., are served as hors-d’oeuvre in the same manner. Simple Dishes.—A number of simple hors-d’oeuvre may be pre- pared with various kinds of fancy butter, such as Montpellier, an- chovy, lobster, crayfish, shrimp, ravigote, niaitre d’hotel, and horse- radish butter (see Chapter XIV.). Any of the above-named can be shaped into little balls, tiny pats or cubes, served on little squares of crisp toast, very small lunch biscuits or parmesan biscuits. Little balls of butter are sometimes dished neatly on small china or glass hors-d’oeuvre dishes. In that case, little pieces of toast or biscuits are handed round at the same time. Tartelettes aux Huitres et Caviar {Oyster Tartlets with Caviare).— Line the required number of small tartlet moulds thinly with short crust paste and bake them “ blind ” to a golden colour. When cold, put a dessert-spoonful of fresh caviare in each crust so as to spread over the bottom. Upon this place a bearded oyster. Sprinkle over a few drops of lemon juice and a tiny pinch of red pepper. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Huitres en Geiee {Jellied Oysters).—Open the required number of oysters (best natives), beard them and put them in a plate or pie-dish to maidnade, in semi-liquid aspic, well flavoured with oyster liquor, lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Clean the lower (deep) shell of each oyster, put in half a teaspoonful of savoury jelly (aspic) ; upon this place a marinated oyster, pour over a little of the aspic so as to mask it nicely. Keep on the ice till required, then dish up, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Oyster Cocktail.—Allow three or more small oysters for each person, open and drop them, with the liquor, into a wine-glass ; add a little lemon-juice, three drops of Tobasco sauce or chilli vinegar, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and one dessert- spoonful of tomato catsup, stir up, and serve. Scraped horse- radish may, if liked, be served on the side.229 HORS-D'CE U VRE {A PPEPISERS). Huitres a la Richelieu. 12 large sauce oysters, small lobster, i gill cream, -} pint aspic jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise sauce, -j- ounce French gelatine, ^ gill tomato puree, tarragon and chervil leaves for garnish, I small head celery, a gill picked shrimps. Beard the oysters, and poach them in their own liquor. Reduce the oyster liquor, and strain into the aspic jelly (great care must be taken to preserve the latter perfectly clear). Chop the meat of the lobster rather finely, melt the gelatine in the tomato puree, strain, and mix with half the jelly. Whisk the cream, and stir it together with a tablespoonful of mayonnaise into the above. Whisk for some minutes, then add the minced lobster. Mask some deep oyster moulds with aspic jelly, decorate tastefully with sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves. Mix the remainder of aspic with the remaining mayonnaise sauce, and pour a thin layer of it over the decorated moulds ; when set, fill each with the prepared puree, and place on the ice until set. Meanwhile, prepare a salad with the celery (finely shredded) and the shrimps, and season to taste. Turn out the moulds, arrange the oysters on a dish in the form of a border, fill the centre with the prepared salad, garnish the dish to taste, and serve. Appetissants Maconnaise. 3 hard-boiled eggs, i truffle, 2 gherkins, 3 red chillies, 6 Cforgona anchovies, J- gill well-reduced bechamel (p. 142), 2 blanched mussels or sauce oysters, I oz. butter, a pinch pepper, bread for toast. Prepare 8 to 10 rounds of toasted bread, about inch in diameter and ^ inch thick, and hollow out the centre portion of each to receive the puree. In a mortar pound the yolks of eggs, 4 filleted anchovies, mussels or oysters, and butter, till smooth, season with a pinch of pepper, adcl the bechamel sauce, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the hollow part of the rounds of toast with this, garnish the surface of each with little strips of truffles, gherkins, chillies, and anchovies. These will look best if put on in the form of lattice-work. Put the remainder of the savoury puree in a paper cornet or forcing-bag, with a fancy tube decorate the edges artistically. Dish up on little glass dishes, and serve. Appetissants a la Suedoise. 4 slices of stale brown bread, 2 harcl-boiled eggs, it oz. butter, i oz. anchovy paste, 4 Spanish olives, 2 gherkins, cooked beetroot, 4 slices preserved lax. Cut triangle shapes from bread about half an inch thick, hollow out the centre of each by means of a sharp-pointed knife, fry in clarified butter a nice golden colour, and drain. Mix the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, butter, and anchovy paste in a mortar, fill the cavity of triangles when cold with this puree. Cut the hard-boiled whites of eggs, gherkins, and beetroot into small strips. Stone the olives, cut in halves, and fill each with some of the above puree. Place half a slice of preserved lax, neatly shaped, on top of this, and arrange the strips of gherkin, egg, and beetroot alternately cross-wise on each triangle so as to form a lattice pattern. Put a half of filled olive in the centre of each, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and dish up.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 230 Bonnes Bouches de Crevettes a I’Avondale. J pint aspic jelly (p. 132), oz. leaf gelatine, pint picked shrimps or prawns, i tablespoonful chutney, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence, i tea- spoonful mixed mustard, -1- teaspoonful chilli vinegar, i gill tomato aspic (p. 142), salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. Dissolve the gelatine and strain it into about half a pint of liquihed aspic, put it into a basin, and whisk over some broken ice until it becomes spongy in appearance ; fill up quickly a number of small bouchee cup moulds (dariole or timbale shape), and allow them to set firmly on the ice. Cut the shrimps or prawns into small dice, put them in a stewpan with the chutney (chopped finely), the anchovy essence, mustard, vinegar, and tomato aspic ; heat up while stirring, season to taste, and turn into a basin. Scoop out a portion of the centre of each mould with a hot dessertspoon, fill up the cavity with the prepared mixture as it becomes cool. Set the mould on the ice for about an hour, turn out, dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Bonnes Bouches de Sardines. , 2f OZ. of sardine paste, a handful of small cress, i dessertspoonful of sweet oil, I teaspoonful of vinegar, 3 oz. butter, brown bread, salt, pepper, and cayenne, 2 hard-boiled eggs, watercress for garnish. Cut some thin slices of brown bread, put 2 oz. of sardine paste in a mortar, and pound with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and ik oz. of butter. Rub through a fine sieve. Spread this over the slices of bread. Wash the cress and cut up small, season with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and sprinkle over the layer of paste. Place another slice of bread on top, and press together, spread the top with butter, and sprinkle over thickly with finely-chopped whites of hard-boiled egg. Cut them into fanciful shapes or strips about an inch wide, mix some sardine paste with a little cream or butter, and ornament the surface by means of a forcing-bag, accord- ing to taste. Dish neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, and garnish with some picked watercress. Cassolettes de Betterave [Beetroot Cassolettes). Cut 8 or more cassolette shapes from cooked beetroot, scooping out the centre, and steep them in vinegar marinade. Prepare a salpicon composed of anchovy fillets, hard-boiled white of egg, and gherkins, all cut into dice or julienne strips. Season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and mix with finely chopped parsley, and other herbs. Drain the cassolettes and fill them with the salpicon. Dish up, garnish, and serve very cold. Dominos a la Rochelais. Coat I doz. small domino moulds with a very thin layer of white aspic jelly (made with chicken or veal stock). Decorate with dots of truffles to represent dominoes. Upon this put a thin layer of mayonnaise cream, and let it set on the ice. Pound in a mortar 4 oz. of cooked ox-tongue, when smooth add I tablespoonful fof anchovy paste and 2 tablespoonfuls of double cream ; incorporate also about ^ gill of chicken or veal aspic.231 HORS-D’CEUVRE {APPETISERS). Season with paprika and mignonette pepper, and rub all through a fine sieve. Spread the prepared puree thinly on to a tin, and place on the ice to set. Next stamp out the required number of domino-shaped slices, and fix them by means of a little liquid aspic into the prepared moulds. In a similar way cut very thin slices of black bread (pumper- nickel), which must be cut to the exact size of the dominoes. Unmould the shapes, and place each on a slice of black bread. Have ready some very finely shredded and seasoned salad (Batavia or Belgian endive) in the form of a bed on a round flat dish. Dress the dominoes on this, and serve as hors d’ceuvre or cold savoury. Hors-d’CEuvre a la Russe. These usually consist of a selection of sardines, anchovies, herring fillets, smoked sausages (cut into thin slices), radishes, etc., neatly arranged in hors-d’oeuvre dishes, and thus handed round at the beginning of a dinner. The dressed dishes are also served under the same name, and consist of fish, such as cold salmon or turbot, cold chicken or cooked smoked sausages ; the former, i.e. the fish, are shredded finely, whilst the latter are minced rather coarsely. The dressing or seasoning used in each case is either oil or vinegar (vinaigrette), salt and pepper, or mayonnaise dressing. They must be carefully mixed with just enough dressing to moisten, and dished up in a heap on tiny glass dishes, little china or paper cases. Finely shredded lettuce, pickled gherkins (chopped finely), small white or red radishes, etc., are frequently used as garnish for these dishes, the success of which largely depends upon the taste shown in the dishing up and garnish. Hors-d’GEuvre a la Suedoise. Cut into fine shreds or small dice 4 oz. cooked cold chicken, two smoked herring fillets, one large cold boiled potato, and three to four., slices of pickled beetroot; season this with a little mayonnaise sauce, mix well, and dish up on little hors-d’oeuvre dishes. Decorate tastefully ’ with hard-boiled white and yolk of egg chopped finely, and ser\'e.232 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Barquettes de Concombre. Cut the required number of small boat shapes from i or 2 large cucumbers ; scoop out the centre part of each, and fill them, after being steeped in oil and vinegar marinade for an hour, with a mixture of finely shredded smoked salmon, capers, and gherkins, seasoned with salad dressing. Dish up, garnish, and serve. Chaud-froid d’Huitres [Oyster Chand-froid). I dozen native oysters, aspic mayonnaise, pimientos, olives, aspic jelly. Blanch the oysters in their own liquor, and remove the beards. Have ready the aspic mayonnaise (p. 152), coat the oysters well with this, and let them set on the ice in a wire tray. Stamp out some dot shapes of red pimientos, place these in rings of olives and set one in the centre of each oyster. Mask with a little dis- solved aspic, and place them on little round croutes of fried or toasted bread. Dish np and garnish neatly. Concombre a la Tartare. Peel a cucumber thinly, and cut it into thin slices without detaching, so as to retain its original shape, and shape it into a round. Between each slice insert a little tartare sauce, then place it on a dish, and put a tiny strip of pimiento on or between each slice of cucumber. Put a little tartare sauce in the centre of the dish, and fill up with finely shredded lettuce, then serve. Concombre en Surprise. To half a gill of bechamel sauce (p. 142) add enough spinach and sorrel puree to give it a gre:'!! tint; heat it up and reduce a CONCOMBRE EN SURPRISE. little, then tammy, and add three leaves of gelatine, dissolved, and a gill of aspic, and half a gill of mayonnaise (p. 152). Line a cucumber mould with this. When set, put in each half of the mould a layer of chicken aspic ; in the centre of each half of the mould place a layer of foie-gras puree, mixed with truffle and pistachio kernels, so as to completely fill it. Close up the mould, wrap in paper, and put it on the ice. 1 o serve, unmould the shape, and dish up on an oblong dish, covered with vine-leaves.233 IIORS-D'CE U VRE {A PPETISERS). Eclairs a la Sevigne. Prepare a choux-paste (unsweetened). With this paste prepare a number of small finger-shaped rolls and place them on a greased baking-sheet, then bake them in a fairly hot oven. Slit the side of each eclair, and take out some of the soft portion of the pastry, and let cool. Fill each with foie-gras ci'eam, mixed with chopped truffle and champignons. Mask the eclairs with brown chaudfroid sauce, and glaze with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Frivolites Bohemienne. This consists of a variety of hors-d’oeuvre dishes, one being made of very small timbales coated with aspic and asparagus cream, then filled with smoked salmon cut into fine shreds and blended with mayonnaise. The moulds should first be decorated with thin strips of truffle. Another dish is composed of herring fillets, a third A SELECTION OF HORS-D’cEUVRE, FRIVOLITE STYLE. dish of plovers’ eggs or slices of hard-boiled egg, yolk removed and centre filled with caviare garnished with crescent shapes of beetroot ; a fourth dish consists of small foie-gras canapcA, triangular, square or oblong shapes, garnished with very small red radishes. A dish of sardines, smoked lax or tunny fish, suitably garnished, completes the selections of Bohemian or Russian Frivolites. Feuilles de Laitue aux Crevettes. 2 cabbage lettuces, i gill picked shrimps, i gill vegetable macedoine, i gill mayonnaise, 8-10 prawns, seasoning, capers and beetroot for decoration. Wash and drain the lettuces, spread the best and largest leaves on a cloth, and stamp out into i6 rounds by means of a 2-t-inch and a 2-inch paste cutter, eight of each size. Mix the shrimps and cooked vegetable macedoine with enough mayonnaise to season, then add the prawn tails cut up into small dice, and season with salt and pepper. Put a small tablespoonful of this in the centre of each of the larger lettuce leaves, and cover with the smaller leaves. Force a little mayonnaise in the centre of each top, and place on a prawn head, round this force little dots of mayonnaise, on to which put a small ring of pickled cucumber or beetroot with a few capers in the centre. Dish up, and serve.234 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Zephyrs de Homard a la Russe. Remove the shell from a small lobster, chop the meat finely and pound in a mortar with a gill of bechamel sauce and ^ gill of cream, then rub through a fine sieve. Add a little tomato pulp, season with salt, pepper, and paprika to taste, and incorporate ^ pint of semi-liquid aspic. Have ready a number of very small bouche or other suitable moulds, mask them with aspic and decorate them with strips of hard-boiled white of egg and truffle. When set fill up the moulds with the prepared mixture, and place on the ice to set. Unmould the shapes and dress them on a socle of rice or on an aspic border, and serve with a plate of thinly-cut and buttered slices of German brown bread. Melon Cantaloup. There are various kinds of melons served as hors-d’oeuvre, the cantaloup and English rock melon being the most favourite. They must not be over-ripe, and should be served as fresh as possible, and above all very cold. During the summer, some crushed or shaved ice is usually put round the dish on which the slices of melon are served. Cantaloupe au Marasquin, Procure one or more ripe cantaloup or rock melons, cut the fruit in half, put the melon in a glass bowl, or deep dish, place it on another (flat dish), surrounded with crushed ice. Pour about a tablespoonful of maraschino liqueur in each half of melon, then serve as hors-d’oeuvre. Salade de Melon {Melon Salad). Cut a rock or cantaloup melon (not over-ripe), previously peeled and seeded, into small cubes, and range them neatly in a salad bowl, which place on the ice. Meanwhile prepare a salad dressing com- posed of two parts of best nut oil (Richelieu brand), one part of white wine (Chablis or Sauterne) and one part of tarragon vinegar. Mix with salt and paprika pepper to taste, then pour over the prepared melon and serve—very cold. Note.—A more effective melon salad can be made by cutting a portion off the top of the melon and then scooping out the interior, so as to leave the rind intact. Cut the fimit into cubes and season as above directed, then refill the melon, dish up on a bed of ice, and serve. CEufs de Pluvier {Plovers Eggs). Boil the eggs for about 8 minutes, plunge them into cold water and remove the shells, or if preferred shell only the pointed end of each egg. Range them on a dish on a bed of watercress or parsley, and serve. Cepes Marines {Soused Cepes). If fresh cepes are obtainable, parboil them after being cleaned in salted water, drain and cool them, then put them in a basin and pour over a hot marinade, composed of i|- gills of vinegar, | gill of salad oil, -i- a clove of garlic crushed, a few peppercorns, also crushed.235 HORS-irCE U VRE {A PPETISERS). and a few sprigs of savoury herbs. Boil up and pour over the cepes. Allow them to soak for 4 hours or longer, then take up, cut them into thin slices and range on a dish, pour over some of the strained marinade and serve. Cepes are obtainable already cooked in glass or tins from first-class grocers. Salade d’Ananas a I’lndienne {Indian Pine-apple Salad). Peel a small ripe pine-apple and cut it into dice, peel and core a sour apple and two heads of white barb, cut both into fine shreds. Mix these with the pineapple, and add enough mayonnaise sauce to dress the ingredients. Place these in a glass bowl and garnish the top with thinly cut slices of truffle, pimiento, and fine sprigs of white barb. Keep the salad on the ice till required for table. Salade d’Asperges, Americaine {American Asparagus Salad). Remove the pulp from two grape fruits and drain. Mix this pulp with h pint of boiled asparagus tips. Mix together 2 table- spoonfuls of lemon-juice, one tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, 2 tablespoonfnls of tomato catsup, season with salt and pepper, and mix with cold cooked asparagus tips. Dish up and serve very cold. Salade d’Asperges aux Crevettes ( Asparagus Salad with Shrimps). Prepare and cook bundle of green asparagus ; when cold, cut the tender portion into small pieces, and put them into a bowl with half-pint of picked shrimps. Mix lighfly the asparagus and shrimps with mayonnaise. Serve on a dish in the centre of a border of sliced hard-boiled eggs. Celeriac a la Creme. Slice some cooked celeriac and cut into julienne strips, season with mayonnaise cream, salt, and pepper ; add a tablespoonful of finely shredded truffles to each celeriac root. Dish up on small hors-d’oeuvre plates or dishes, and serve. Celeriac a la Norge. Wash, scrub, peel, and par-cook two celeriac roots, then cut them into fine julienne strips, prepare a dressing composed of 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, i teaspoonful of made mustard, i table- spoonful of vinegar, and 2 tablespoonfnls of mayonnaise. Season the celeriac with salt and pepper, and mix with the dressing. Dish up on a crystal hors-d’oeuvre dish, and serve. Celeri a la Rivaz. Cut into fine strips or shreds the white part of 2 heads of celery, which must be tender and thoroughly washed and trimmed. Peel, core, slice, and cut into strips a good-sized pickled beetroot. Mix both together with enough tartare sauce to well season the salad, then range on to a hors-cl’oeuvre dish and serve. Celeri a la Grecque. Shred finely the heart portion of 2 heads of white celery, pre- viously cleaned. Put it into a pie-dish and pour over a well-made “ vinaigrette ” (see Sauces). Sprinkle over a dessertspoonful ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 236 finely chopped fennel leaves. Cover and let stand for two hours. Range on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, and serve. Celeri a la Waldorf. Trim and wash 1-2 sticks of white celery, cut the heart portions into fine julienne strips, and steep in acidulated water till required. Peel and core 3 sour cooking apples (preferably russets), and cut them likewise into julienne strips. Drain the celery strips and mix with the apples. Season with mayonnaise flavoured with mustard and enriched with a little whipped cream. Serve on a hors-d’oeuvre dish. Chouxfleur a la Creme de Moutarde {Cauliflower Hors-d'oeuvre). Wash and trim a large cauliflower and cook it in salted water, then drain and cool. Divide it into small flowerets and marinate them in oil and lemon-juice. Chop finely 2 tablespoonfuls of piccalilli, mix this with C gill of mustard sauce and 1-2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Pour this over the cauliflower, then dish up on a crystal hors-d’oeuvre dish. Condoles a la Clanet {Green Pea and Cuc%imber Gondolas). Roll out thinly some nouille paste (p. 134) and line with it the required number of small boat-shaped moulds. Fill them with dry peas or rice, and bake to a golden colour. When done, unmould, remove the contents of the crusts, and place them on a sieve to cool. Prepare a puree of cooked green peas and cooked cucumber, blended with tartare sauce and enough aspic jelly (p. 132) to bind, and season to taste. Put a little of this puree in each of the paste crusts, upon this put about a teaspoonful of chopped Bengal or empress chutney; then fill them with pea and cucumber puree. Srnooth over the surface neatly with the blade of a knife, and237 HORS-D'(EUVRE {A PPETISERS). mask with a layer of aspic jelly. When set, decorate with thinly- cut slices of radishes. Dish up neatly, and serve cold. Laitue aux (Eufs et Anchois {Lettuce with Eggs and Anchovies). Cut 12 anchovy hllets into small dice and chop coarsely the hard-boiled whites of 2 eggs, and rub the yolks through a coarse sieve. Mix them carefully in a basin and season with salt, pepper, and a little mayonnaise. Wash and drain some crisp lettuce leaves, and stamp out g-io rounds with a fluted 2+-inch paste cutter. Put a dessertspoonful of the prepared salad in the centre of each, spread over with a little mayonnaise, and place a smaller round of lettuce leaf on top. Decorate with capers and finely chopped encumber or beetroot. Keep on the ice till required for table, then dish up and serve. Feuilles de Laitue a I’Americaine {Lettuce Leaves with Lohstev). Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, but use finely chopped fresh lobster in place of anchovies, and decorate with lobster butter, capers, and tiny sprigs of curly parsley. Gumbos a I’Americaine, Salad oil, 2 tomatoes, a bouquet garni, i clove .garlic, 2 pimientos, gumbos, 1 lemon. Put 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls of best salad oil into a saute-pan, when hot adcl the tomatoes cut in slices, with pulp removed, the bouquet garni, and crushed garlic. Fry a little, and put in the red pimientos and gumbos. Season with salt and pepper, moisten with the lemon-juice, and cook in the oven till the gumbos are tender. This dish is generally served cold as hors-d’oeuvre on deep glass dishes surrounded with crushed ice. Roulettes a la Creole. Brown bread, butter, game puree, capers, anchovy paste, parsley, lobster coral. Butter lightly some thin slices of brown bread and spread the buttered sides with a layer of game or chicken puree, flavoured with capers and anchovy paste. Roll up, trim the edges, and butter the surface of each. Sprinkle half the buttered part of the rolls with finely chopped parsley, and the other half with lobster coral, krona seasoning, or panurette. Dish up the green and red roulettes alternately on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, and serve. Mayonnaise a la Suedoise. Cooked lean veal, fillets of kippered herrings, cooked potato and beetroot, mayonnaise, hard-boiled eggs. Cut all into small dice shape. Season with mayonnaise. Dish up on little glass dishes, and garnish with hard-boiled egg-yolks. Chantrelles en Salade. Chantrelles are a species of mushroom grown in Switzerland. When cooked they are dressed with plain salad dressing or mayon- naise seasoning. Served as hors-d’oeuvre.238 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Petites Bouchees a la Caroline. Make and bake eight very small rice cassolettes, scoop out the centre, and fill them with seasoned chopped hard-boiled white of egg and truffles. Petites Bouchees de Jambon a la Creme.—Fill some small puff- paste cases with minced ham seasoned with mayonnaise and cream. Tartelettes de Saumon a I’Ecossaise {Scotch Salmon Tartlets). 1 small slice salmon, i small carrot, i onion, i bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 2 oz. butter, lemon-juice, i hard-boiled egg, i cold potato, celery-root, beetroot (small), white wine (Chablis or Graves), tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt, mayonnaise dressing, aspic jelly (p. 132), short crust, trutlie, gherkin or chilli for garnish. Prepare the short crust with -J- lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, and water. Line 8 to lo tartlet moulds with these, prick the bottom of each, fill up with lentils or dried peas, bake a golden colour, turn out lentils or peas, and let the crusts cool. Place the .salmon in a buttered saute- pan with the carrot and onion cut into slices, and the herbs. Add a little salt and sufficient water and wine, half and half, to cover the flsh, put in a teaspoonful lemon-juice, and cook over a gentle Are for about ten minutes. When cool, stamp out an equal number of rounds a little smaller than the tartlet crusts. Mask each with a thin coating of mayonnaise and aspic, mingled in equal quantities, ornament one side of each with a star of truffles, chillies or gherkins. Mix the remnants of salmon with the potato, celery, the white of a hard-boiled egg, and a few slices of beetroot, all minced rather finely, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, tarragon, and chervil, and enough mayonnaise to moisten. Line the tartlet crusts with this mixture, lay a dressed round of salmon on top, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with chopped aspic and parsley, and serve as hors-d’oeuvre or flsh entree. If intended for the latter the crusts and salmon must be of a somewhat larger size than for hors-d’oeuvre. Anchois (Anchovies)—{Anchois a I’kuile). The best and most suitable anchovies for hors-d’oeuvre are the Gorgonas. A very good quality also comes from Nice. Soak the anchovies in cold water for an hour or more, then take out, drain on a cloth, open them, and take out thevbone, trim neatly, dry on a cloth, dish up, pour a little sweet oil over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. Anchois et queues d’Ecrevisses {Anchovies and Prawns). Anchovies and prawn or crayfish tails, seasoned with mayonnaise, and dressed in shells or glass dishes. Anchois a la Norvegienne. Norwegian anchovies, 3 hard-boiled eggs, chervil, red pepper, oil, vinegar, I lemon, parsley. Prepare some fillets of Norwegian anchovies, trim neatly. Chop two eggs coarsely, yolk and white separate ; dish up in glass hors- d’oeuvre dishes, season with a little chopped chervil and red pepper, sprinkle with a little oil and vinegar. Place the anchovy fillets230 HORS-D '(E U VRE (A PPE TISERS). over the top in the shape of lattice-work, ornament with fancy slices of lemon, quarters of hard-boiled egg, and parsley. Rosettes aux Anchois {Anchovy Rosettes). 6 filleted anchovies, 8 small mushrooms, i oz. anchovy paste, 1 oz. butter, I hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, green butter for garnish, bread for croutes, clarified butter for frying. Cut the bread into slices about an eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds about 2^ inches in diameter, fry golden-brown in butter, drain, and cool. Mix the butter and anchovy paste, rub the yolk of egg through a sieve, and chop the white finely. Spread one side of the croutes thickly with anchovy butter ; arrange little strips of anchovy on the croCites in the form of rosettes ; cut the stems of 8 small preserved mushrooms, and put the heads in the centre of each. Garnish with the hard-boiled white and yolk of egg and the chopped parsley, decorate by means of a paper cornet with green butter, dish up on little glass dishes, and serve. Caviare as Hors-d’CEuvre, Next to the oyster, caviare is the most favourite hors-d’oeuvre. There are various kinds, the genuine Russian, Astrachan, unsalted, being the best. Elbe, and hygienic caviare are also excellent, though less expensive than the former. It is usual to serve caviare in the original pot, placed on a folded napkin on a dish surrounded with shaved ice. In any case, caviare must be kept on the ice till required. Quarters or slices of lemon or cayenne pepper must be handed round when serving. Batons de Caviar a la Russe. 4 triscuits, Astrachan caviare, cream, green herb butter, shallot, lemon-juice. Spread one side of the triscuits (previously fried in butter) with fresh Astrachan caviare, cut them into finger shapes, place them in a dry tin, put on the lid, and pack the tin in crushed ice and salt for two hours. Just before serving decorate with whipped cream and green herb butter flavoured with finely-pounded shallot and lemon- juice. Dish up neatly on a china or silver dish, and garnish to taste. Note.—Thin slices of toasted brown bread can be used in place of triscuits. Caviar au Blinis. This is a Russian dish, the caviare being served on a glass dish set on a block of ice, garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Blinis is served at the same time. It is a kind of light yeast batter without sugar, baked in small pans or fried like small pancakes, which are sent to table hot with a boat of sour cream. Petites Croutes de Caviar. 4 oz. of Russian or hygienic caviare, a lemon, } of a teaspoonful of shallots. Cut out eight round pieces of bread about an inch in diameter and half an inch thick ; scoop out the centre sufficiently hollow to take a dessertspoonful of caviare, mix the caviare carefully with a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, a squeeze of lemon, and a pinch240 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. of cayenne ; fry the croutes in hot butter a nice light colour, drain well on a cloth ; when cold, fill up the prepared caviare. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. ’ Duchesses au Caviar. Prepare an unsweetened choux-paste, put it in a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and force out little heaps of paste on to a greased baking sheet. Bake in a sharp oven to a light brown colour. Make an incision from the bottom of each little “ choux,” and scoop out some of the soft part. When quite cold, fill the little choux with Astrachan or hygienic caviare, previously “ iced.” Brush over with aspic mixed with meat glaze ; besprinkle with chopped pistachios, and dish up. Note.—There are many varieties of Duchesses, for in place of caviare they can be filled with savoury purees, such as ham, chicken, game, tongue, foie-gras, anchovy, sardine, lobster, smoked salmon, etc. The name given must, of course, vary in accordance with the puree used. The same remarks apply to ” Carolines.” See recipe for Carolines a la Reine. Caviar a I’Allemande. Cut some cold potatoes into thick slices and stamp out each with a fluted cutter, cover the edge with a thin strip of anchovy fillet, and fill the centre with caviare, then cover with coarsely chopped hard-boiled white of egg. Dish up and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Caviar a la Dauphine. Prepare some unsweetened choux-paste and force out little heaps (choux) on to a buttered baking sheet. Bake them in a sharp oven for about fifteen minutes. Take up and scoop out the centre, soft part, of each. When cold, fill the cavities with caviare and place on the ice. When required for using, coat each with partially set aspic jelly. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Caviar de Biluga Glace {Caviare in Ice-shape). Half fill a plain shallow basin-shaped copper mould with water. Line the sides with sprigs of fresh watercress, and place the mould on well salted crushed ice. When the water in the mould is partially frozen (say about half an inch thick) pour away the liquid water from the centre. Dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds and turn out the shape, which then represents an iced dish or bowl. Place it on a folded serviette on a silver dish, and put in one or two pots of very cold Biluga caviare or other good Russian caviare. Garnish tastefully with thinly cut slices of lemon, and serve with thinly cut toasted bread or wafer biscuits. Caviar sur Canapes. Slices of buttered toast, Russian caviare, Spanish olives, parsley or watercress. Stamp the toast into rounds about one and a half inch in dia- meter, spread these on one side thickly with Russian caviare, place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, put a sprig ofHORS-D 'CE U VRE {A PEETISERS). 241 parsley or watercress on top of the olives, dish up, and serve cold. Or if required to be served hot, put the rounds of toast with caviare in a hot oven for hve minutes, then dish up and put the olives on them just before sending to table. In either case garnish with fanciful cut slices of lemon and hard-boiled whites of eggs, Caviar en Belle-Vue. Lemons, caviare, buttered croutes of bread, shallots, parsley. This dish consists of halves of lemons cut into pretty crown- shaped baskets filled with seasoned caviare, dressed in pyramidal forms on croutes of bread, previously coated witli butter. The centre of each basket is garnished with a small quantity of hnely chopped shallots, and the dish is garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley. Caviar aux Ecrevisses [Caviare with Prawns]. 2 oz. Russian caviare, i shallot finely chopped, lemon, a pinch of cayenne, 8 stoned olives. 16 small prawns, 2 large gherkins, breail for croutes, clarified butter for frying, parsley. Cut some slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out with a plain cutter eight rounds about an inch and a half in diameter, fry them lightly in butter, drain, and cool. Put the caviare in a basin, add a few drops of lemon-juice and the chopped shallot, season with cayenne, ancl stir gently with a wooden spoon or fork. Cut eight thin slices of lemon, place one on each of the bread croutes, put about a teaspoonful of caviare on each of them, place a stoned olive in the centre, and arrange two picked prawns on each of the croutes. Put a tiny sprig of parsley in the centre of each olive. Dish up on a warm glass clish in a circle. Shred the gherkins and put in the centre. Ornament with a few prawn lieads and serve. Tranches de Caviar a la Remoulade [Caviare, Rcmouladc Style). Brown bread, biitter, Russian caviare, i lemon, shallots, cayenne pepper, I teaspoonful stiff mayonnaise, i teaspoonful bechamel sauce, i hard-boiled egg, \ teaspoonful each of chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon, shallots, mustard, tomato puree. Prepare 12 heart shapes of thin brown bread about an inch and a half long. Butter slightly. Mix two ounces of Russian caviare carefully with a squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Spread the slices rather thickly with the caviare, but do not use a knife for this purpose, as steel or metal injures the flavour of it. Mix together the mayonnaise, cold bechamel sauce, egg-yolk passed previously through a fine wire sieve, parsley, fennel, tarragon, and shallots, also half a tea- spoonful of prepared mustard, and one of concentrated tomato puree. Work all vigorously, fill in a paper cornet, and ornament the caviare slices to taste. Dish up on small round dishes, and stand in a cool place until required Canapes de Caviar a la Capucine. 4 slices brown bread, 4 oz. hygienic or Astrachan caviare, 8 to 10 prawns, I hard-boiled egg, i oz. butter, i tablespoonful mayonnaise, a few sprigs small cress, OTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 242 Stamp out eight to ten oval pieces of bread about two inches long, f of an inch wide. Cream the butter and mayonnaise sauce together, spread one side of each slice of bread with this, put a layer of caviare on top. Remove the heads from the prawns, free them from skin, split open, and place one on each. Rub the yolk of hard-boiled egg through a sieve, put a little in the centre of the canapes, ornamented with little sprigs of washed small cress, dish up on a dish-paper in a pyramidal form, place the heads of prawns on the top, and serve. Brissolettes de Caviar. 6 small stuffing rolh, mayonnaise sauce, a.^pic jelly, Russian caviare, filleted r nchovies, parsley. Cut the rolls in halves, and trim the edge to make them stand firmly, scoop out the crumbs and stand in a cool oven to dry. To the mayonnaise sauce add enough liquid aspic jelly to stiffen, line the inside of the rolls when cold with this, and let set. Put a dessertspoonful of Russian caviare in the centre of each roll, place a little chopped aspic jelly on the top of each, or fill up with a layer of half-set aspic. Ornament the surface with small strips of filleted anchovies, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve when quite set. If unable to get the rolls small enough, stamp out some rounds of bread, half an inch thick, scoop out some of the crumbs, fry in butter, let cool, and proceed as above directed. Caviar en Salade, 2 tablespooufuls best olive oil, i tablespoonful vinegar, i .smal pot Russian caviare, i hard-boiled egg, 2 ripe tomatoes, cayenne, parsley. Put the oil and vinegar in a salad bowl, stir in with a wooden spoon the Russian caviare. Slice the hard-boiled egg and tomatoes, mix carefully with the above, adding a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt if needed. Dish np neatly on little glass dishes, sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley. Ornament the dishes with some slices of hard-boiled egg and tomato, and serve. Caviar a la Creole, Triscuits, Astrachan caviare, double cream, parsley, tarragon, chervil, pistachio nuts. Stamp out some triscuits with a round cutter if- inch in diameter. In the centre of each round put a teaspoonful of fresh Astrachan caviare. \Vhisk up some double cream, add a little herb flavouring, put it in a forcing-bag or cornet, and force out a neat border round the edge of the caviare crotites. Sprinkle each with a pinch of finely chopped pistachio nuts, dish up on small hors-d’oeuvre dishes, and serve. Croutons a I’Espagnole. Bread, butter, i8 large Spanish olives, stiff tartarc sauce, fillets, of anchovy, hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, parsley. Cut eighteen round croutes of bread about an inch and a half in diameter and one-eighth of an inch thick, fry in butter, drain. Stone the olives with a sharp cube cutter, fill with tartare sauce (p. i6o) ; place one in the centre of each crouton, curl an anchovy fillet round it, garnish with finely chopped hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, and sprigs of parsley. Dish up on small hors-d’oeuvre dishes, and serve.243 HORS-D 'Ui UI 'RE (A PPE RISERS). Thon Marine (Tunny Fish). The tunny is fish preserved in oil, and it is not unlike cod. The flesh is firm, with a delicate flavour, and resembles cooked veal. It makes a highly-esteemed hors-d’ceuvre, but is hardly ever served otherwise. It is served in thin slices, on oblong or round glass dishes in rows overlapping one another, garnished with little heajis of chopped capers and chopped parsley. Pour a little sweet oil over the fish just before sending to table. Barquettes Suedoise. Fill 8-10 small buttered boat or other suitably shaped patty pans with unsweetened choux paste, and bake them to a light brown in a moderate oven. Remove the interior soft portion of the pastry, and place the pastry shells on a sieve to cool. At the bottom of each put a thin layer of caviare, and upon this a layer of lobster puree mixed with a little mayonnaise cream. Mask the surface with a thin layer of pink chaucTfroid sauce. When set, decorate tastefully with strips of gherkins and lobster spawn butter. Keep on ice till required for serving, then dish up. Caisses d’Ecrevisses a la Mayonnaise {Mayonnaise of Crayfish). 12 to 18 crayfish, some cold salmon (or other fish left over from a previous meal), i head of lettuce, a small handful of mustard and cress, a tablespoon- ful of capers, 2 to 3 French gherkins, i hard-boiled egg, mayonnaise sauce, and seasoning. Wash and trim the lettuce, and break the leaves into small pieces. \Vash the small cress, and drain w^ell. Have ready 6 to 8 small china or silver souffle cases, put about a dessertspoon- ful of mayon- naise sauce into each, and fill up w i t h alternate layers of lettuces, cress, slices of hard-boiled egg, cold fish, and crayfish,'"pile up each case rather high, season to taste, and c(tat the surface of each with mayonnaise sauce. Decorate prettily with fancifully cut slices of gherkin and hard-boiled yolk of egg. Keep the cases on the ice until recpiired for table, then dish up on a silver dish with folded napkin. Croutes aux Ecrevisses a la Tartare [PraionCroutes, Tariarc Style). 6 or 8 round farthing rolls, 18 large prawns, i large gherkin, 6 fillets of anchovy, i hard-boiled egg, tartare sauce, mustard and cress, aspic jelly, lobster butter, parsley. Cut the rolls in equal halves, scoop out the crumbs, and allow' the crusts to dry. Mince and mix the prawns, gherkin, anchovy fillets, and the white part of the hard-boiled egg. Season with aTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 244 ladleful of tartare sauce (p. i6o) ; put a little mustard and cress at the bottom of each crust and fill up with the preparation, and cover with thin slices of aspic jelly. Fasten the heads of prawns in the centre of each with a little lobster butter, and ornament the edges with lobster butter. Dish up on small round dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cassolettes a TEpicurienne. 2 oz. preserved lax, 2 oz. cooked ox tongue, 6 French olives, i|- oz. fresh butter, 2 French gherkins, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, I- teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, tablespoonful of wine vinegar, i table- spoonful of sweet oil, stick celery, about lb. cassolette paste (p. 136). Prepare the cassolette paste as directed, roll out very thin, and line ten or twelve little round fluted moulds. Place a round of buttered paper in each, fill up with rice, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderately heated oven. Take out rice and papers, replace the cases on a baking sheet in the oven until they become quite crisp, then put on sieve to cool. Cut the lax, tongue, and gherkins into little strips, season lightly with oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs, and fill the little cases carefully with this. Stone the olives, and place one in the centre of each. Cream the butter, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet with a fancy piping tube, and ornament the edges and surface to taste. Keep in a cool place until required for table, then dish up on little round glass saucers, and garnish with tiny bunches of shredded celery and sprigs of parsley. Palmiers d’Ecrevisses. Cassolette paste, picked shrimps, mayonnaise cream, parsley, lobster coral. Make some cassolette paste (p. 136), line with it 6 to 8 small oval- shaped patty or dariole pans, and bake them. Fill the crusts with picked shrimps seasoned with mayonnaise cream (p. 153), finished with chopped parsley and lobster coral, Petites Caisses a la Marquise. 8 oysters, 2 hard-boiled eggs, green herb butter, tartare sauce, i large truffle, 2 or 3 stems of celery. Shred very finely the white and well-washed celery and truffle, season with tartare sauce (p. i6o). Fill up 8 small china cases, place an oyster and a thin slice of hard-boiled egg on top of each, and decorate with green herb butter. Canapes are made of either toasted or fried bread, cut into suitably shaped slices. The new wheat biscuit known and soldHORS-D '(E U VRE (A FEE RISERS). 24S as “ Triscuits ” lends itself admirably for canapes and croutons, and can advantageously be iised in place of ordinary bread. In most cases canapes or croutes are best if fried in butter to a golden colour. They nmst be well drained before using. Canapes a I'Arlequin. Prepare some oblong or crescent shapes of toasted and buttered brown bread ; cover each with strips of tongue, smoked salnum, gherkins, and truffles, arranged in harlecpiin style. Canapes a la Coquelin. Prepare croiitons of fried bread, spread over one side with a paste composed of cooked pounded ham and chicken, butter, and grated cheese ; garnish with fancifully cut slices of gherkins and beetroot. Canapes a la Diana. Arrange neatly some layers of chopped ham, truffles, and hard- boiled egg-yolks (placed alternately) on croiitons of fried bread ; dish up and decorate with chopped aspic. Canapes a la Darvelle. Prepare oval-shaped pieces of toasted or fried bread, spread one sicle of each with anchovy paste, and hnish with alternate layers of ham and caviare ; decorate with hard-boiled eggs and aspic. Canapes de Foie-gras a la Russe. Rounds of toasted bread, foie-gras, hard-boiled eggs, anchovy fillets, caviare. Spread one side of each round with foie-gras puree, place a dice of hard-boiled yolk of egg on top, and garnish with anchovy hllets and caviare. Canapes a la Genevoise. Prepare some oblong croutons of fried bread, spread them with a paste composed of anchovy butter, sardine, and ham ; garnish with hard-boiled yolk and white of egg and parsley. Canapes Hambourgeoise. Stamp out some oval-shaped slices of bread, and fry them in butter, then drain on a cloth or paper. Chop very finely some smoked beef or ox-tongue, and arrange a neat border of this on the prepared canapes. Prepare a foie-gras puree blended with whipped cream and suitably seasoned, put it in a forcing-bag furnished with a fluted tube, and fill the centre of each canape. Decorate each with whipped cream, and place a tiny star of pimiento or truffle on top, then dish up and serve. Canapes de Harengs a la Russe, Prepare some hngers of fried bread, spread them with anchovy butter mixed with herring roes ; arrange very small hllets of kippered herrings on top of each ; and garnish with thin slices of gherkins. Canapes de Sardines a la Frangaise. Prepare some small fried bread croutons, mask them with sardine paste or butter, upon this place layers of sardine hllets, chopped parsley, and coat the surface with remoulade sauce.246 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Canapes a la Selon. Butter lightly some water biscuits, cover them with slices of hard- boiled egg dipped in lemon-juice and coated with chopped parsley, put a teaspoonful of caviare in centre, and garnish with prawns. Canapes a la Turbigo. 4 small rolls (farthing rolls), 10 prawns or 6 crayfish tails, i small head of celery, a few mixed pickles, a little aspic jelly, hard-boiled whites of eggs, 2 small truffles, a spoonful tomato juice, capers, and parsley, reiiioulatle sauce (p. 158). Cut the prawns, celery, pickles, and truffles into small dice. Mix with a little remoulade sauce, which is a stiff mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely chop})ed parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and prepared mnstard ; add to this just sufficient tomato puree to colour it. Cut the rolls in halves, scoop out the crumb, fill with the mixture, cover the surface with a thin round piece of aspic jelly. Garnish with strips of hard-boiled whites of egg, capers, truffles, and parsley ; serve on small dishes. Canapes a la Turque. 4| oz. butter, 4 volks of hard-boiled eggs, 4 Gorgona ancliovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked lean ham, i oz. blanched parsley, spinacli greening, i table- spoonful brown sauce, bread for croutes, and clarified butter. Cnt some bread into slices about two inches long and half an inch wide ; fry these in clarified butter a golden colour and drain. Let cool. Pound the ham till fine, add a little sauce to produce a smooth paste, also f oz. butter and i yolk of hard-boiled egg. Spread thickly one side of the prepared bread croiites. Make three different kinds of butter ; yellow, by pounding 2 yolks of egg and 2 oz. of blitter ; the red,, by pounding 3 boned anchovies with i oz. butter and a little brown sauce ; and the green, by ponnding the blanched parsley with i oz. butter, i anchovy, and i yolk of egg. Season the butters to taste, and rnb separately through a fine sieve. By means of a forcing-bag with a rose pipe or a paper cornet, force out the prepared butter alternately in the shape of crossbars on the croLites, dish up, and serve cold. Canapes a la Windsor. Prepare a puree of cooked chicken fillets, ham, tongue, butter, Cheshire cheese, mustard, and cayenne, pound and sieve it. Spread it on canapes of fried bread and garnish with thin slices of gherkins and hard-boiled egg-whites. Tartines a la Baroda {Sandwiches, Baroda Style). 3 oz. Patna rice, J lb. cold chicken meat, 2 oz. butter (fresh), } gill cream, I dessertspoonful mulligatawny paste, i dessertspoonful of chutney, i table- spoonful allemande (p. 141) or bechamel sauce (p. 142), i pint white chaud-froid sauce (p. 144), i teaspoonful curry powder, some aspic jelly, 6 slices of brown bread, buttered. Pound the chicken in a mortar with the butter, mulligatawny paste, and chutney, and allemande or bechamel sauce. Rub all through a sieve, spread half the slices of brown bread thickly with a layer of this preparation ; if any is left over use it for garnish. Boil the rice, drain, dry, and mix with a little cream, and let cool. Cover the spread slices of bread with plain slices of buttered brown247 HORS D’CEUVRE (APPETISERS) bread, press together, cut into fingers, half-moon or heart shapes. Heat np the chand-froid sauce, mix it with snlficient curry powder to give it a greenish tint. When nearly cold mask the slices thus prepared, and when the sauce is set glaze them with a coating of half-set aspic. Dress the rice on small round silver dishes in the shape of pyramids ; dress the tartines neatly round each dish. Have ready some set aspic jelly, cut out diamond shapes, and garnish the dishes with these, some sprigs of green salad, and some of the puree left over, which is best done by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag. Keep the dishes on the ice until re([nired. Filets de Hareng a la Nignon, Pare and trim the required number of smoked herring fillets, and roll \ip each neatly. Have ready a thin as])ic tomato border placed on a round flat dish, upon this range the herring rolls, with a thin ring of pimiento on top of each and a small round of hard- boiled egg in the centre. Fill the centre of the dish with a well-seasoned cooked vegetable macMoine, such as peas, beans, asparagus tips, cauliflower sprigs, etc. These should be neatly arranged and dressed as a salad. Denises a la Princesse [Princess Sandwiches). 4-6 oz. cooked chicken, meat I'recil from skin and bones, i oz. butter, I teaspoonful lemon-juice, 4 shelled walnuts, i dessertspoonful double cream, salt, paprika pepper, thin slices buttered bread. Pound the chicken meat in a mortar till smooth, mix the butter thoroughly, add the cream, lemon-juice, and season with salt and a good pinch of paprika pepper. Work the mixture until quite smooth, and put on a plate. Blanch, drain, and skin the walnuts, cut them into thin slices. Spread the prepared mixture upon thin slices of buttered bread, add the sliced walnuts. Press the slices together in the usual way, cut out into desired shapes, dish np, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. Denises a la Turque [Turkish Sandwiches). I loaf of white bread (stale), 3 hard-boiled eggs, 6 prawns, 4 boned anchovies (Gorgona), i tablespoonful chutney, 3 oz. butter, one saltspoonful made mustard (Englisli), 1- pint of aspic, 4 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (p. 152), I tablespoonful white sauce (p. 163), i tablespoonful tomato pulp, a few drops of carmine, paprika pepper, parsley for garnish. Cut the bread into slices, 4- inch thick, stamp out some heart shapes or rosettes by means of a pastry-entter, fry them slightly in hot fat or clarified butter, drain well, and split them in halves with a sharp knife. Pound the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, the anchovies and prawns (picked) in a mortar, when smooth add the chutney, pound again, add the butter, seasenr with the mustard, and about a saltspoonful of paprika pepper, and rub through a sieve. Stir the mayonnaise sauce into the aspic (made liquid, but it must not be hot). Stir until it begins to set, then divide into two equal parts, mix one lot with white sauce (bechamel), and the other with tomato pulp—add a few drops of carmine to the latter to give it a more pronounced red tint. Spread the cut sides of the croiites with a thick layer of the prepared puree, place them together24l^ THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. into their original shapes, press lightly together, and mask half of them with the prepared white sauce, and the other half with the prepared red sauce. The sauces must, of course, be merely liquid (half-set). When set arrange them neatly on one or more dishes, garnish with sprigs of freshly-picked parsley, and send to table. Denises Suedoise [Swedish Sandwiches). White bread, butter, cream cheese, i gherkin, 6 stoned olives, i teaspoonful capers, t gill stiff mayonnaise sauce, cayenne. Chop hnely the gherkin, olives, capers, and mi.x with it the stiff mayonnaise sauce (p. 152). Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, spread half the mtmber of slices of bread (buttered sides) with the above mi.xture, and spread the remainder of slices with cream cheese (bondons or petit Suisse). Sprinkle over each slice a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, press the slices (spread sides) together in pairs, cut the pieces into rounds, triangles, ovals or fingers, dish up, garnish, and serve. For other Sandwiches see Chapter XXXVIII. Canapes aux CEufs farcis [Stuffed Egg Canapes). 4 hai'd-boiled eggs, 6 Spanish olives, 4 oz. tongue, 2 anchovy fillets, a few capers, 2 gherkins, salad oil, lemon-juice, toasted bread, parsley. Cut the eggs in halves across, cut off a small piece of the white, and rub the)yolks through a sieve. Pound half the tongue rather finely and mix w i t h half the yolks of eggs. Stamp out eight nice r o u nds of buttered toast about the size of the cut side of the eggs, cover thick- 1 y with tongue and egg-yolks. Cut the remainder of tongue, olives, and anchovies into fine shreds, season with a few drops of oil and lemon-juice. Add a little chopped parsley and the capers, also a pinch of paprika pepper. Fill up the cups of white of egg with this, inseit a neatly cut fan of gherkin in each and place them on the prepared croutes, dish up, and serve. Tartines a la Cardinal. I small lobster, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful anchov}^ paste, 2 hard-boiled eggs, V gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), | gill aspic jelly (p. 132), thin slices of lightly buttered white or brown bread, 1-2 French gherkins, i truffle, seasoning. Remove the meat from the lobster, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till smooth. Add the butter, anchovy paste.nORS-D’CEU VRE (A FPERISERS). 249 and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Should the mi.xture be found too stiff, add a little white sauce (cold) before it is passed through the sieve. Clean the mortar and pound a little lobster coral till smooth, add this to the mayonnaise ; failing this, add a few drops of liquid carmine, so as to impart a deep pink colour. Mi.x the aspic last of all—fhis will form the sauce for coating. Spread the prepared puree betweeu the slices of buttered bread, and press them a little. Stamp out as many rounds as possible (about the size of a live-shilling piece). Mask these care- fully with the prepared sauce. When nearly set, decorate them tastefully with fancifully cut pieces of hard-boiled white of egg, gherkin, and truffle slices. Dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a dish, put a handful of crisp salad in fhe cenfre, and serve. Tartines a la Lucullus. J lb. puff paste, parmesan cheese, anchovy paste, and Spanish olives. Give the paste three consecutive turns, sprinkle it each turn with finely grated parmesan cheese. Roll out in two long strips about three inches wide and a quarter of an inch fhick, and cnt in two crossways. Mix a tablespooniul of anchovy paste with sufflcient anchovy sauce to form a smooth paste. Spread this evenly over one side of the paste, and cover with the other strip. Cut it into small squares or oblong strips, place on a baking sheet, prick the surface of them with a fork, and bake in a moderately heated oven to a nice light brown. When baked put aside to cook In the meantime pound two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of bloater paste, a tablespoonful of veloutee or bechamel sauce, and three stoned Spanish olives. Put all through a hire sieve, and season with a little cayenne. Put this puree in a paper cornet, cut the point, and form an ornamental border on the top of each tartine. Place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, curl a strip of anchovy hllet or lax round each olive, strew a few shreds of cornichons (pickled French gherkins) round the olives, dish up, and serve. Tartines de Caviar en Chaud-froid. A small jar Russian caviare, i finely chopped shallot, brown bread, butter, 1 oz. meat glaze, 2 tablespoonfuls rich brown sauce, aspic jelly, i lemon, 2 taI)lespoonfuls doulile cream, dressed salad for garnish. Put the caviare into a basin, add a hnely chopped shallot, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and stir gently with a wooden spoon or fork. Cut some thin slices of brown bread, butter them, and spread one side with the prepared caviare, close up two slices and press together tightly. Stamp out some rounds with a pastry- cutter an inch and a half in diameter. Dissolve the meat glaze in the brown sauce, add a gill of aspic jelly and a few drops of caramel, and pass through a hue strainer. When cooling, mask thickly one side of each sandwich with this sauce. Dissolve a gill of aspic jelly, and add two tablespoonfuls of double cream and a few drops of lemon-juice, let it cool a little, and mask the other sides of theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 250 sandwiches. When set run a little half-set aspic jelly over the surface of each, and put them on the ice to set. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the sandwiches in a circle round the toast, alternately one white and one brown ; a handful of dressed salad, such as lettuce, endive, cress, and radishes, in the centre ; put the remainder of the caviare neatly on the top, keep on the ice until required for table. Poivrons d’Espagne. 1 pint can oi Spanish pimientos, mayonnaise sauce, i tablespoonful tomato puree, chopped parsley. Drain the pimientos on a sieve, and cut into hue shreds like julienne strips. Mix with mayonnaise and a tablespoonful of tomato puree, dish up, and sprinkle over some finely chopped parsley. Nids a la Chartres. 2 hard-boiled eggs, i J- oz. butter, -1- teaspoonful made mustard, i small tin or terrine foie-gras, salt and pepper, stale bread. Cut the bread into slices inch thick. Stamp out eight rounds if inches in diameter, scoop out a little of the centre portion of each, fry in clarified butter a golden colour, and drain. Remove the fat from the foie-gras, cut out some small cubes with a J-inch cutter. Pound the trimmings of foie-gras (without any pieces of fruffles) in a mortar, together with the butter and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, add the mustard and season to taste, mix well, and rub through a coarse wire sieve on to the croutes of bread, so as to cover the hollow side completely with the puree as it comes through the sieve. Dish u}) carefully, place a cube of foie-gras in the centre of each, garnish tastefully with hard-boiled white of egg, trufiles, and a little chopped aspic if liked. Olives farcies {Stuffed Olives). 10 or 12 large Spanish olives (queens), white bread, 4 oz. foie-gras pate, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i oz. butter. There are numerous ways of stuffing olives, but the following method will be found the most suitable for hors-d’ceuvre. Cut out the stones by means of a column cutter. Toast one or two slices of bread ancl stamp out some rounds about an inch in diameter. Pound the foie-gras, yolks of eggs, and butter, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a sieve. Spread thinly the rounds of toast with this, put the remainder of the puree in a forcing-bag, and fill the olives. Place an olive on each croute, decorate taste- fully with creamed butter and sprigs of parsley, and dish up on little glass dishes. Olives farcies a la Gelee [Stuffed Olives set in Aspic Jelly). I bottle stuffed olives (olives farcies), \ pint aspic jelly (p. 132), tarragou- leaves, 3 red chillies, spinach greening, 10 to 12 rounds of fried bread, i oz. anchovy paste, i oz. fresh butter. Take about a gill of aspic and dissolve it in a small stewpan, add a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. Mask the inside of 10 or 12 small olive or cup moulds with this, decorate them tastefully with tarragon-leaves and fancifully cut shapes of chilli skin. Wipe the olives carefully with a clamp cloth, and set251 ilOUS-irCEUVRE (APPETISERS). one in each of the moulds (these should be very little larger than the olives), fill up the base of the olives with dissolved asjiic, and put them on the ice to set. Stamp out some rounds of bread, about an eighth of an inch thick and an inch in diameter, fry these a golden colour in clarified butter, drain, and cool. Mix the anchovy paste with the butter, spread one side of the rounds of bread with this. Unmould the olives, place them on the rounds of bread, dish up on glass dishes with pretty lace paper, garnish to taste with parsley or sprigs of cress, and serve. Olives a la Madras. 9 Spanish olives, 9 anchovy fillets, 2 hard-boiled eggs, I teaspoonful ol chntney, i dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce or paste, i oz. of butter, cayenne and salt, 9 fried bread croutes, or rounds of triscuit fried in butter. Stone the olives, pound the butter, anchovy paste, yolk of eggs, chutney, and seasoning in a mortar. Then rub them through a sieve. Spread a little of the puree on each croute, and })ut an olive hlled with the same puree on each. Decorate with coral and chopped white of egg. Curl an anchovy lillet round the base of each olive, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Olives a la Tartare. Brown bread, stiff tartare sauce, -t gill aspic jelly, Spanish olives, shrimps or prawns, parsley. Stamp out some slices of brown bread with a i-inch cutter. Mix together a gill of tartare sauce (p. i6o) and aspic jelly. Dip each round of bread in the sauce to mask completely. Place them on a dish to set. Stone as many Spanish olives as there are rounds of bread, hll each with tartare sauce, place one in the centre of each croute, dish up on little glass dishes, put a shrimp-tail or small prawn-tail in each olive, garnish with parsley, and serve. The rounds of bread must be very thickly masked ; if not satis- factory at hrst, coat for a second or third time. Petites Caisses a la Cazanova. i head celery, i large truffle, mayonnaise or tartare sauce, hard-boiled eggs, oysters, ravigote butter.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 252 Cut the celery and truffle into line julienne strips. Season with a little mayonnaise (p. 152) or tartare sauce. About three-parts lill some very small paper cases, lay a slice of hard-boiled egg, cut out to size, on top of this, place a bearded oyster on each, and garnish tastefully with green herb butter (p. 176). This is best effected by means of a paper cornet. Remoulade d’CEufs {Remoulade of Eggs). 8 small fresh eggs, 2 shredded wheat biscuits, 4 or 6 artichoke bottoms, remoulade sauce,_ 2 ripe tomatoes, aspic jelly, triiltle, parsley. Poach and trim the eggs, and place them on a sieve to cool. Cut open two “ shredded wheat biscuits,” cut each half in two crossways, and trim. Toast them slightly, spread the hollow part of each with a mixture of chopped cooked artichoke bottoms mixed with enough remoulade sauce to season, and on top place a slice of ripe tomato. Mask the eggs with remoulade sauce (p. 158), mixed with sufficient aspic jelly to set the sauce when cold. Dress the masked eggs on the prepared croutes, sprinkle over with a few finely cut strips of truffles. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve cold. Lax fume aux' Concombres [Smoked Salmon with Cucumber). I tin of lax, i small cucumber, i tablespoonful of sweet oil, i dessertspoonful Orleans vinegar, pepper, and salt, 3 or 4 slices brown bread, butter, a handful of mustard and cre.ss and watercress, i teaspoonfnl chopped parsley. Cut the cucumber into id-inch pieces, as near the same size as possible ; cut the peel so as to form stripes of green and white (crinkled). Scoop out some of the centre and round off the bottom of each so as to give them the appearance of cups. Chop the pulp, scoop out the centre, and put it in a basin, with the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley. Stamp out some rounds of bread with a 2-inch cutter, butter them on one side, cover the buttered side with thin slices of preserved lax. Cut some of the lax trimmings into fine strips, and mix with the cucumber pulp, season with pepper and salt. Put the cucumber cups on the prepared rounds of bread, and hll the cavities with the above mixture. Range them neatly on a round dish in the shape of a crown, season the small cress, etc., and put it in the centre of the dish. (Eufs a la Suedoise. 3 hard-boiled eggs, green herb butter. Cut the eggs into halves, remove the yolks, and pound with green herb butter, season, and rub through a sieve. Fill the whites of eggs with this. Decorate neatly, and serve on glass dishes. Petits Nids en Surprise [Little Surprise Nests). Make a short crust paste with | lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, i oz. grated cheese, i yolk of egg, and a little water. Roll out the required quantity and stamp out into rounds about if inches in diameter. Bake them for ten minutes in a moderate oven and place on a sieve. Spread on side of each a mixture of Lucullus paste butter. Have ready some cheese choux paste, put in a forcing-bag with a rose tube, and force out a neat border on each253 lIORS-irULU VRE (ARRETISERS). of tlie rounds of pastry (croutes). Bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Brush over the surface of the border, which must l)e of a nest-like appearance, with very little dissolved meat glaze, and besprinkle this with hnely chopped pistachio kernels. In the centre force out 3 or 4 little ovals or rounds of creamed butter to represent tiny birds’ eggs. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. Fonds d’Artichauts {Artichoke Bottoms). Remove the leaves and hearts from small young green artichokes and cook the bottoms in salted and acidulated water, then cool, and drain, trim the bottoms neatly, and marinade them. Fill them with a macedoine salad, cut very small and seasoned with mayon- naise. Dish np and serve Remoulades d’Artichauts {Rcmoulade of Artichoke Bottoms). Trim neatly and drain a dozen of very small preserved artichoke bottoms. Mix half a pint of vegetable macedoine with mayon- naise sauce, blended with hnely chopped gherkins and capers, and hll the hollow parts of the artichokes. Mask the surface carefully with stiff mayonnaise, and decorate with strips of red pimiento and sliced stoned olives. Dish np and serve. Artichauts a la Macedoine. Select some very small young globe artichokes, remove the outer leaves and cook the hearts and bottoms in slightly salted water well flavoured with lemon-juice. Leave them in the liquor till cold, then drain on a sieve. Cut them into quarters and marinade them for about half an hour in lemon-jnice and salad oil. Range the artichokes in the form of a circle on a flat round dish, and fill the centre with cooked vegetable macedoine, seasoned with mayonnaise. Dress this in cone or dome shape. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Artichauts a la Vinaigrette. Proceed as above directed and dress the artichokes when cooked, cooled, drained, and marinaded, on a shallow dish, pour over some vinaigrette dressing and garnish with sprigs of parsley, Tomates aux Crevettes [Tomatoes with Shrimps). Peel 4 medium-sized ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves and remove or scoop out the interior (pulp portion) of each. Fill them with a salad composed of picked shrimps, suitably seasoned with salt, pepper, and salad dressing. Place a thinly cnt slice of cucumber on top of each. Dish up, garnish with parsley and serve. Tomates a la Tartare. Choose a dozen very small, ripe, firm, and even-sized tomatoes, steep them in hot water for a few seconds and remove their skins. With a sharp knife cut a little off the top of each tomato, and carefully scoop out a portion of the interior and place them to drain on a sieve. Mix about d pint of vegetable macedoine (carrot, turnip, andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 254 French beans, all cut very small, peas, etc.), with half a gill of tartare sauce and a similar quantity of liquid aspic. Season with salt and pepper, and stir carefully over the ice until the mixture begins to set. Fill the prepared tomatoes with this, put a small round slice of pimiento on top of each. Place the tomatoes on the ice. Whisk half a gill of cream, and incorporate a tablespoonful of spinach puree, season with paprika and salt. Spread 12 roimds of toasted bread, cut to the size of the tomatoes with the cream, upon these piit the hlled tomatoes, and decorate them tastefully with the remainder of cream by means of a forcing-bag or cornet. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve, Tomates en Surprise. Prepare a tomato cream with i-f- gill of tomato pulp (well reduced), 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, ^ oz. dissolved gelatine, season to taste, and strain. Mask the two halves of 8 special tomato moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; when sufficiently set, coat each well with the prepared tomato cream. Fill them with the following preparation ; Mix about half a pint of cooked asparagus points with i tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of tartare sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and paprika, also gill of strong aspic jelly and a pinch of nutmeg or mace. Close the two halves together, press firmly, taking care that the marks on each part of the mould are opposite each other. Place the moulds on the ice for about an hour, then turn out, and dish i;p neatly on bed of small salad, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Tomates a la Lucullus. Take 8 or more small tomatoes, scoop out the centre, season with salt and pepper, hll in with a little mayonnaise sauce and a pickled walnut in each. Chop up some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, put this in a basin, cover it with aspic jelly, stir it well, and set in a half-inch sheet. Dish up the tomatoes, and ornament the dish with small dice of egg aspic. Tomates a la Nicoise. Pound Mb. of cooked salmon free from skin and bones and add to it half a gill of mayonnaise, season to taste and rub through a sieve, then incorporate ^ gill of liquid aspic (p. 132). Cut 4 even- sized tomatoes into quarters, remove the pulp and reshape with the prepared puree. Dish up on a bed of finely shredded and seasoned green salad, and serve, Tomates a la Monaco. Marinade in oil and vinegar 8 small tomatoes, previously peeled and hollowed out in centre. Prepare a puree of preserved tunny fish and hard-boiled yolks of eggs, seasoned with salt, pepper, and French mustard, and mix with finely chopped fresh savoury herbs. Drain the tomatoes and farce them with the prepared puree. Dish up and garnish neatly, then serve.255 CHAPTER XVIJ, DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). . (For Cold Dishes, see pages 314 to 333.) Bouillabaisse [Fyench Fish Stew). 1 red mullet, i whiting, a small eel, a small lobster, 6 mussels, i sole, 2 small onions, a gill of oil, an ounce of butter, a quart of fish stock, a bouquet garni fp. 122), 2 cloves, a clove of garlic, 3 small tomatoes, J gill of claret, a pinch of Spanish saffron, salt and pepper, cayenne, a croute of bread, and parsley. Peel and slice the onions, heat the oil in a stewpan and brown the onions, pour off a little of the oil, add the fish stock, claret, the bouejnet garni, cloves, also the garlic hnely bruised or minced, and the saffron blended with a little water. Trim and clean all the hsh, cut it into convenient pieces (the sole may be hlleted to come in better for garnish ; the mussels are prepared in the usual way). Season the hsh with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Put all the hsh into the stewpan containing the stock, and let cook slowly for about twenty minutes. Cut the tomatoes across in halves. Squeeze out some of the juice, broil them in the butter, and keep warm. Cfft the bread croute to the size of dish used for serving, fry it a golden colour in oil or fat, and hx it in the centre of a deep dish by means of white of egg or frying batter. Skim the fat off the hsh, and when ready arrange the jheces neatly on and around the crouton, garnish with the tomatoes and parsley, and send to table very hot, with some of the liquor well skimmed and strained. Court Bouillon. Strictly speaking, mis term applies to hsh, etc., cooked “ an bleu ” (cooked in water, vinegar, wine, herbs, etc.). There is, however, a dish, a kin® of mixed stew, which is known under thisTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 256 name, for which no corresponding term in English has ever been adapted. The recipe is as follows : 1 lb. of fish (skinned and boned—cod, salmon, turbot, or any other suitable fish), 2 small onions, i oz. butter, i small tablespoonful flour, i gill claret, ‘2‘ gill vinegar, pint stock, 2 or 3 ripe tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Peel and slice the onions, fry them lightly in a stewpan with the blitter, add the flour, fry a little, moisten with the stock, vinegar, and wine, stir, boil up, and skim. Put in the fish and tomatoes in alternate layers, both being cut into slices, simmer for about half an hour, season to taste, dish up, and serve. SAUMON—SALMON. Cotelettes de Saumon a ITndienne {Salmon Cutlets).^ 2 to 25- lb. middle cut of salmon, 2 oz. butter, about \ pint of piccalilli or mixed pickles, i gill Indian sauce (p. 150), i egg, a few small lobster claws, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Slit the piece of salmon down the back in two, take out the bone, remove the skin, and divide each half into three or four cutlet-like pieces. Trim neatly and season with pepper and salt, egg and crumb each cutlet twice. Heat the butter in a saute-pan ; fry the cutlets rather briskly on both sides. Drain carefully on paper or a cloth, insert small lobster claws in the ends, dish up in a circle on a thick or thin border of mashed potatoes. Have ready the piccalilli cut into fine julienne strips, and heated up in the sauce. Put this garnish in the centre of the dish, pour the same round the cutlets, and serve. Saumon a la Chambord. 4 lb. salmon, i| pint stock, ^ pint espaguole sauce, pint tomato sauce, pint white wine, i carrot, i clove, i oz. butter, 2 pats of fresh butter, a bouquet garni, 10 peppercorns, i teaspoonfulanchovy paste, juice of i lemon, 24 small fish quenelles, 12 small mushrooms, 8 crayfish, 8 oysters, 3 truffles. Wash and dry a middle cut of salmon weighing about four pounds, put it in a stewpan with the stock, carrot, onion stuck with the clove, white wine, one ounce of butter, bouquet garni, and peppercorns, season with a little salt, cover it over, and simmer slowly over the fire for about an hour. When done take up the salmon, strain the stock into a small saucepan, add the espagnole sauce (p. 148), and tomato sauce (p. i6o), let boil for ten minutes, skim well, stir in the fresh butter, anchovy paste, lemon-juice, and pass through a tammy cloth. Have ready the poached fish quen- elles, made with whiting forcemeat (p. 177), mushroom heads, crayfish tails, cooked oysters, and sliced truffles. Dish up the piece of salmon, remove the skin on the surface, garnish top and side with the garniture and a decorated hatelet skewer; and sauce over gently, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. Darne de Saumon a la National. About 3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), i carrot, i onion, i turnip, a bouquet of herbs, i small piece of celery, 6 peppercorns, i quart of fish stock, 2 small cucumbers, i gill Chablis, 3 or 4 potatoes, salt, parsley, 3 oz. butter, i oz. flour, I gill of milk, grated nutmeg and pepper, i tablespoonful of cream. Cut the fish into slices about half an inch thick. Line a buttered saute-pan with the thinly sliced carrot, turnip, celery, and onion.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 257 put in the fish, season with salt, cover with the remainder ot vege- tables, add the peppercorns and savoury herbs, moisten with a pint of fish stock and the wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. Wash and peel the potatoes, peel thinly the cucumber, scooj) out as many round balls as possible. Blanch them separately, drain, cook them in some white stock or salted water until tender, then drain and keep till wanted. Take up the salmon, cover, and keep it hot. In the meantime prepare a white roux with one and a half ounces of butter and one ounce of flour, strain in the stock left from the fish, add the milk (boiling), also the trimmings of the cucumbers, previously blanched in salted water. Let the whole come to a boil, and simmer for twenty minutes, adding more stock as the sauce reduces. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream, season with a pinch of white pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Pour the sauce over the slices of fish so as to mask them completely. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, garnish the sides with groups of the prepared potatoes and cucumber, and serve. Cotelettes de Saumon a la Danoise [Salmon Cutlets with Danish Sauce). 2-J- lb. middle cut of salmon, anchovy paste, egg, breadcrumbs, fried parsley, Danoise sauce. Cut the salmon into half-inch-thick slices, and each slice in two lengthways. Trim neatly into cutlet shapes, season each with pepper and salt, spread a little anchovy paste on each side of the cutlets, dip them in flour and brush over with beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling fat for about ten minutes, or until the fish has acquired a golden colour. Drain on paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and hand Danoise sauce (p. 147) separately. Filets de Saumon a la Duchesse. 2|-3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), i t- oz. butter, a small glass white wine, 12 pre- served mushrooms, mushroom liquor, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i gill well-reduced espagnole sauce (p. 148), 2 ripe but firm tomatoes, chopped parsley, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, mashed potatoes, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fish, cut off the fillets, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add the wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven from 15-20 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Have ready some mashed potatoes, mixed with a little butter and one or two yolks of eggs, and nicely seasoned. Place a bed of this on an oblong silver dish, and arrange the fish neatly on it. Put the espagnole sauce into t^^‘ saute-pan containing the liquor with which the fish was cooked? Add the trimmings of the mushrooms, tomatoes, and the anchovy essence, and stir over the fire until sufficiently reduced. Pass through a fine strainer, season to taste, and use as directed. W RTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 258 Make a pretty border of mashed potatoes by forcing it through a large-sized rose pipe round the hsh, and mask well with the sauce. Garnish the top of the fish tastefully with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes, previously tossed in a little butter over a quick fire and seasoned to taste. Place the dish in a quick oven for a few moments, sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over the top, and pour a little more sauce round the dish. Note.—Small salmon trout and red or grey mullets can be similarly treated, but their skins need not be removed. Saumon a la Verdi. 2 lb. salmon, i glass Chablis, cardinal saixce, bearnaise sauce, truffles. Procure a tail or jowl piece of salmon, remove the skin and bone carefully, season with pepper and salt, and place it on a buttered fireproof dish. Moisten with a glass of Chablis or hock, and poach in the oven for fifteen minutes or longer, according to the thickness of the fish. Have ready enough cardinal sauce (p. 144) to well coat the fish and the base of the dish. Put a layer of bear- naise sauce (p. 143) in the centre, upon this strew some very finely cut shreds of truffles, and serve. Note.—Turbot is excellent served this way. Saumon a la Matelote, 2 to 3 lb. of salmon cut into half-inch slices, 2 oz. butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls finely chopped herbs—z.e. parsley, a little chervil and tarragon, and some chives—the juice of i lemon, i glass Chablis or Sauterne wine, 3 truffles, 18 preserved nrushrooms (champignons), 12 small braised button onions, 18 small fish quenelles (p. 177), ^ pint rich espagnole sauce (p. 148), i oz. meat glaze, seasoning. Wipe the slices of salmon, melt the butter in a large saute-pan, put in the salmon, sprinkle over with the chopped herbs, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice and wine, cover with a buttered paper, cook in a fairly hot oven for ten minutes, basting frequently. Poach the quenelles of fish (these must be made rather small, the shape of marbles). Drain them and put into the sauce, cut the mushrooms and truffles into slices, toss them in a little butter, and put them into the sauce with the meat glaze. WMrm up to boiling-point. Take up the fish and dress on a hot dish. Strain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, boil up, and skim, and pour over the fish. Garnish the dish nicely with the braised button onions, truffles, etc., and serve hot. Hure de Saumon a la Moderne. Head-piece of salmon (about 4 lb.), | pint Chablis wine, a small bunch of parsley, i quart fish stock, 3 oz. butter, oz. flour, 6 small truffles, i egg, 12 mushrooms (heads), 12 Spanish olives, a lemon, 4 lb. fish sausages, seasoning. Mupe the fish with a damp cloth, trim it, and truss neatly. Put it in a deep saute-pan or fish-pan, season with salt and pepper, add the parsley tied up in a bunch, cover with a piece of buttered paper, moisten with the white wine and fish stock, let it come to the boil over the fire, then place it in a hot oven, and let it simmerDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRIiES {HOT). 259 gently lor about forty-five minutes or more according to the thickness of the lish, and baste occasionally. \Micn done, drain the fish and ]dace it on a dish. Meantime melt two ounces of butter, add the ilonr, stir over the fire until it acquires a deep fawn colour, dilute with the lish liquor, add the juice of half a lemon, season with a little salt and mignonette pepper, pass through a line strainer or najikin, and linish with the remainder of the butter. Remove the skin from the lish sausages, mix with a yolk of egg, shape some little corks, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot lard a golden colour. Prepare the truffles (sliced), mushrooms (whole heads only), olives (stoned and blanched), for a garnish. Cover the lish well with the sauce, warm up the garniture, and place in small groups round the lish, also the fish croquettes. Garnish the top of the hsh with slices of lemon, truffles, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve hot. Saumon a I’ltalienne [Baked Salmon, Italian Style). About 2 lb. salmon (middle), 2 small shallots (]ieclcd and chopped), i tea- spoouful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, fjrtitcd nutmeg, 1 small glass claret, Genoise (p. 149) or tomato sauce (p ifio.). Cut the hsh into two or three even-sized slices, place them on a well-buttered baking-tin or saute-jtan, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, sprinkle over the chopped shallots and parsley, and place the remainder of butter on top of the hsh. IMoisten with the wine and bake for about fifteen minutes, basting frequently. When done, dish up, and pour some Genoise or tomato sauce over the slices of salmon. The essence left in the pan in which the hsh was baked must be utilised for llavouring the sauce. Tranches de Saumon GnW^ [Gyilled Salmon, Maximilian Sauce). 2 lb. salmon, flour, olive oil, parsley Initter, Maxdmilian sauce. Procure the middle cut of salmon, divide into f-inch thick slices, wipe them with a cloth, dip each in Hour, and brush over with sweet oil. Place the slices of hsh thus jirepared between a clean gridiron, previously oiled, and grill them in front or over a clear hre (coal or gas hre) ; allow about ten minutes for each side to cook. When done, dish up, put a small piece of parsley butter (butter mixed with lemon-juice, salt, and chopped parsley) on top of each slice, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve with a boat of Maximilian sauce (p. 167). This dish can be served hot or cold; when required cold spread over each slice a little stiff tartare sauce dressing in place of the parsley butter. Saumon grille au beurre d’Anchois. Grilled slices of salmon with anchovy butter. Proceed the same as above directed, and serve with anchovy butter (p. 174) in place of sauce. Saumon a la Parisienne. Slices of salmon, mirepoix, claret, cliampiguons, fish croquettes, crayfi.sh, oysters. Genoise sauce. Slices of salmon, cut rather thick, braised in mirepoix, moistened with claret ; dished up and garnished with groups of champignons.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 26o little fish croquettes, crayfish tails, and poached oysters. Serve with sauce Genoise (p. 149). Mousses de Saumon a la Cardinal, I lb. salmon, 1 oz. butter, pint well-reduced bechamel (p. 142), i white of egg, lobster coral, 2 truffles, seasoning, cardinal sauce (p. 144). Skin and bone the salmon, pound in a mortar until quite fine, add gradually the reduced bechamel sauce and the white of egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Put through a fine wire or hair sieve, and keep on the ice until wanted. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, decorate the bottom and sides of each with fanciful cut slices of trutfies, sprinkle all over the inside with finely chopped dried lobster coral. Fill them with the salmon forcemeat, steam for twenty-five minutes, dish up on a hot dish, and serve with sauce Cardinal. Saumon a la Montmorency. 3 lb. salmon (head-piece or middle cut), i bouquet garni, i oz. butter, 1 chopped shallot, i carrot, i sliced onion, 18 olives, i glass claret, -i- gill wine vinegar, salt, pepper, aromatic seasoning, -J- pint of matelote .sauce (p. 152). Clean and wash the fish, truss it nicely, put it in a well-buttered saute-pan with the sliced carrot, onion, bouquet of herbs, and seasoning to taste. Moisten with the wine and vinegar. Cover with a buttered paper. Put it in the oven and cook about an hour, baste well from time to time. When ready for serving take it out, dish up, remove the upper skin, and keep hot. Fry the shallot in a little butter, add to it the liquor left from the fish, boil up, and add the matelote sauce. Reduce a little, sauce over the fish, garnish with stoned and stuffed Spanish olives, and serve the remainder of the sauce sejiarately. Papillotes de Saumon. 2 lb. salmon, lb. cooked ham, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, i small onion, 8 mushrooms, i tablespoonful parsley (chopped), i teaspoonful salt, \ tea- spoonful pepper. Cut the salmon into si.x or eight even slices, remove the skin, beat them gently with a bat, season with salt and pepper, and roll them. Cut out as many heart-shaped pieces of paper as you have slices, grease them well with butter or oil. Cut double the quantity of thin slices of ham. Peel and chop finely the shallots and onion, put them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, previously heated, and brown slightly. Then add the parsley and mushrooms chopped fine, season with salt and-pepper, and let cool. Lay a .slice of ham on each piece of paper, spread over these a layer of the cooked herbs, place a rolled slice of salmon on each, spread with a thin layer of cooked herb farce, cover with another slice of ham, then fold the paper and twist the edges together; or tie up with string. Put them on a buttered baking-tin or sautoir, and bake for twenty minutes in a slow oven. Have ready a hot dish, remove the fish from the tin, and if tied remove the string, dress them neatly on a dish, leaving the paper on, and serve hot with Genoise sauce handed round separately.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRIIeS {HOI). 26 Paupiettes de Saumon a la Reine. Prepare a lish farce, consisting of -I lb. salmon and i lb. of whiting, free from skin and bones, 4 oz. lish roe (preferably fresh cod roe), 6 oz. butter, 3 whites of eggs, ^ lb. of soft bread soaked in milk and pressed, cream, and seasoning to taste. The farce must be rubbed through a fine sieve, and tested before use. Out of a large cucumber cut 10 or more olive shapes, poach these, and drain, and toss in butter. Butter 10 egg-shaped or very small timbale-shaped cpienelle moulds, fill these with the prepared farce, placing a cuciTinber shape in the centre of each. Next poach them carefully, when done unmould and let cool. Cut as many thin slices of salmon as there are cpienelles (mous- selines), roll each into a slice of salmon, and tie up with thin twine. Place these in a saute-pan on a bed of mirepoix of bacon, onion, butter, and fish fume. Season lightly with salt and pepper. Moisten with a little stock and white wine (Chablis), cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. With the remainder of farce prepare a border made in a plain border mould (buttered), and steam. Turn this out on to a hot flat dish. Range the mousselines on top, removing the twine, and sauce over with a hot ravigote sauce mixed with cucumber puree, the latter being made from the remains of cucumber, and sauteed in butter, then rubbed through a fine sieve. Croquettes de Saumon {Salmon Croquettes). I lb. cooked salmon, -1- lb. cooked potatoes, 2 eggs, i shallot, i oz. butter, t gill cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, fat to fry. Free the fish from skin and bones, and break into small flakes. Rub the potatoes through a sieve whilst hot, peel and chop the shallot and fry in hot butter without browning. Add the fish, potatoes, and cream, stir over the fire until thoroughly mixed, beat and add an egg to the mixture, stir long enough to bind. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, add the parsley, mix well, and turn on a plate to cool. Divide the preparation into six or eight even portions, mould them into cemk or cutlet shapes, egg, crumb, and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve w'ith piquante or tomato sauce. Pate de Saumon a I’Homard {Salmon Pie loith Lobster). About li lb. .salmon, i lolister, i oz. butter, t ])lut bechamel sauce (p. 142), I truffle, I hard-boiletl egg, 6 to 8 small fish quenelles (p. 177), jHiff-paste, seasoning, i yolk of raw egg. Wfipe the salmon, and cut it into three or four slices. Cut the lobster in half, pick out the flesh and chop it small, mix this with the sauce, and season with pepper and very little nutmeg. Butter a pie-dish (medium size), put in a layer of the above mixture, then a slice of salmon, season with salt and pepper, cover with mixture and continue until the fish is used up, jilacing a slice or two of hard-262 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. boiled egg and a slice of truffle between the layers. Pour in a little stock (white fish stock is best), put the fish quenelles on top, divide the remainder of the butter, and place it likewise on top. Cover with puff-paste the same as for meat pies, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, ornament with fanciful cut leaves of paste, brush over the leaves, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour. Serve hot or cold. Tourte de Saumon {French Salmon Tart). Puff-paste, salmon, butter, mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce, parsley, aromatic seasoning, i lemon, i egg, prawns or shrimps. Remove the skin from a slice of salmon of moderate thickness, then cut it into neat fillets. Pound the trimmings, free from skin and bone, in a mortar, adding to them a few chopped mushrooms and about an ounce of butter. When smooth, incorporate the bechamel sauce (p. 142), and season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Line a “ flan ” or French tart moitld, placed on a baking-sheet, with plain, short crust-paste, prick the bottom with a fork, and spread over the prepared farce. Upon this arrange the fillets of salmon, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and seasoning, and some oiled butter. Cover with a layer of puff-paste (feuilletage, p. 133), ornament the surface, and brush over with beaten egg-yolk. Bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Remove the cover carefully, and take off the fat that has accumu- lated. Flave ready a ragout of prawns or large shrimps, which place on top of the salmon fillets. Replace the paste-crust cover, dish up, and serve hot, Saumon a la Godard {Salmon, Godard Style).—Braised salmon with a collection of stewed vegetables dressed round the dish, served with sauce Genoise. — aux Huitres.—Thinly cut fillets of salmon rolled up with stewed oysters, and braised. Served with a rich brown sauce. — en Tranches a la Meuniere (Slices of Salmon, Menniere Style).— Braised slices of salmon, breaded and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs. — a la Piemontaise (Salmon, Piedmontese Style).—Fried fillets of salmon, garnished with small timbale-shaped rice croustades, and served with tomato sauce. — a la Vert-Pre.—Cold salmon coated with green chaud-froid sauce, garnished witli dressed salad, sliced cucumber, and diamond-cut shapes of set aspic. Served cold, — a la Victoria (Salmon, Victoria Style).—Grilled salmon garnished with stewed oysters and crayfish quenelles, and served with Madeira sauce. Darne de Saumon a I’Amiral.—Boiled middle cut of salmon skinned, dished up, sauced over with a lightly-buttered Irrown fish sauce and garnished with fried oysters and small lobster croquettes. Escalopes de Saumon a la Nantaise.—Slices of salmon, cut from the tail- piece, seasoned and broiled in butter, dished up alternately withDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENEREes (HOT). 263 thin collops of lobster, garnished with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. Grenadins de Saumon a la Venitienne.—Larded hllets of salmon, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped fried bread croutons, sauced over with sauce Venitienne. Hiire de Saumon a la Provencale. —Braised head-piece of salmon garnished with stoned parboilecl olives, served with a brown fish sauce, flavoured with chopped shallots, parsley, soitpcon of garlic, and lemon-juice. Paupiettes de Saumon aux Huitres (Paupiet/es of Salmon with Oysters).— Rolled fillets of salmon stuffed with a salpicon of oysters, braised and served with a rich brown sauce. — a la Regence {Salmon Paupiettes, Regent Style).—Rolled fillets of salmon, stuffed and braised. Served with Periguenx sauce. TRUITE—TROUT. Truites a la Cambaceres. 2 small trout, | lb. lean bacon, small bunch of herbs and parsley, i gill white wine, i- pint white stock, 1 oz. butter, i-t gill well-reduced espagnole (p. 148), 8 olives stuffed, i large "truffle, 8 mushrooms, tleurons, salt, pepper, femon-j nice. Clean and wash the fish, put it on a bed of slices of bacon, herbs, and parsley, in a braising or saute-pan, moisten with wine and stock. Season with pepper and salt, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done lift out the fish carefully and dish up, reduce the liquor, skim and strain, add sauce and reduce again. Flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice, finish with half an ounce of fresh butter, warm up the garnish—i.e., the slices of truffles, heads of mushrooms, and stuffed olives—in a little stock or sauce. Garnisli the dish tastefully with the above, sauce over carefully, put a few tleurons round the dish, and serve. Petites Truites a la Divonnaise, 4 small river trout, 4 -|-iuch-thick slices of bread, 3 oz. butter, -t gill Chablis or Sautenie, I gill fish stock, 18 small button onions, 12 champignons, oz. meat glaze, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, 2 tablespoonfuls Genoise (p. 149) or brown fish sauce (p. 144), seasoning. Clean the fish, and trim it. Butter the slices of bread and bake them till light brown in the oven. Place the baked bread in a buttered saute-pan, on each slice place a trout, season with pepper and salt, and put a few tiny bits of butter on top of each fish. Moisten with the wine and fish stock, cover with a buttered paper and bake in a brisk oven till done. Peel the onions, fry them a golden brown in butter, add some gravy, and cook and glaze them in the oven. Use the heads of mushrooms only, heat them up separately in a little stock or gravy. Now take up the trout, arrange them in an oblong dish, and keep hot. Into a stewpan put two pieces of the bread and the liquor of the fish, add the remainder of butter, break up the bread with a whisk, add the sauce and the meat glaze. Stir the whole over the fire, season to taste, and cook264 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. for a few minutes. Lastly add the anchovy essence, and pass all through a fine sieve or strainer. Sauce over the fish with this. Arrange the button onions and mushroom-heads round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Truites a la Meuniere. 3 to 4 small trout (4 to 6 oz. each), 3 oz. butter, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i tea- spoonful vinegar, pepper and salt. Scale the fish, draw it, and wipe with a damp cloth. Season with pepper and salt. l\Ielt half the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fish (previously floured), and cook over a moderate fire till done, turning frequently during the process. Take up the fish, and dish up. Add the remainder of butter to the butter in which the fish was cooked, let it acquire a nut-brown colour (do not let it get black), then add the anchovy essence, stir well over the fire, and gradually mix in the lemon-juice and the vinegar. Lastly add the chopped parsley, then pour the whole over the prepared fish, and serve the dish very hot. Note.—Soles, whole or cut fillets, are served in the same way. Filets de Truite frits a la Milanaise. 2 or 3 .small trout, \ gill olive oil, i lemon, i aessertspoonful chopped parsley, i egg, i oz. grated parmesan, salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, lard or olive oil for frying, fried parsley for garnish. Steep the fish in boiling water for about a minute, peel off the skin, split each lengthwise and remove the bone. Put the fillets in a pie-dish or other filat dish, season with salt and pepper, barely cover with oil, add the juice of one lemon, and let it soak for about an hour. Beat up the egg, and mix with the chopped parsley. Mix sufficient freshly-made breadcrumbs with the grated parmesan cheese. Drain the fillets, rub them over on each side with a little flour, dip them in the beaten egg, and cover well with the prepared crumbs. Heat some lard or oil in a deep saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with sauce Italienne. Truites au bleu {Blue Trout). To prepare these correctly the required number of trout should be put into court-bouillon whilst alive, and then poached for about ten minutes. Drain the fish carefully, dish up, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve with sauce Ravigote (see p. i6g). Truites au Vin rouge {Trout in red wine). Procure 6-8 small river trout and cook, i.e., poach them in court-bouillon consisting of bottle of claret, water, bouquet garni, carrot and onion (sliced). When done, dish up, reduce the fish liquor by one-thircl, strain and thicken with butter liaison (2 oz. of butter mixed with i oz. of flour). Cook for ten minutes, season and strain over the fish. Glaze under salamander and serve. Filets de Truite a la Mirabeau. I medium-sized trout, :}■ gill sweet oil, t lemon, Mirabeau sauce. Remove the scales and wipe the fish with a danqi cloth. Take265 DRKSSIU) 1-ISH AST) I-1 SI I I-XTRI-RS (HOT). oil the lillrts, and ])ut lliem skin nj)\vards in a sante-jian containing a quarter of a gill of sweet t)il (rrovcncc oil is j)rcferable). Season with pejqier and salt, S([neeze the juice of half a lemon o\-er the fillets, cover with a piece of buttered j)aper, and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. \Mien done, remove the skins, take nj> the fillets with a fish-slice, and jdace them on a hot dish. Sauce over carefully with Mirabeau sauce (p. 154), and send to table. This recipe ma}’ be applied to any kind of fresh-water fish. Truite au Chablis.—Braised river trout, hlletcd or whole (mircpoi.x and Chablis), garnished with olive-shaped potatoes, plain boiled, and parsley ; sauce Noisette (see Sauces). — a la Christiana.—Boned trout stuffed with fish farce and hard-boiled egg slices, rolled up, cooked in stock and milk ; skinned when cold and masked with aspic mayonnaise ; garnished with caviare canaj)es, etc. — a la Montgolfier.—River trout boned and stuffed with whiting farce, mi.xed with chopped truffles, jioached in oven {fnmet de poisson), dressed with a mixture of lobster cut in dice, and mushroom heads ; sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce), TURBOT—TURBOT. Escalopes de Turbot a la Dauphine. About 2I lb. turbot, t gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), butler, i tablespoonfu cream, i egg, sauce crevettes (p. 165), i glass Sauterue, puree of potatoes, seasoning. Free the fish from skin and bones, cut eight or nine even-sized escallops of turbot, oval or round, pare them neatl)’, place them in a buttered saute-pan with the wine, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and cornr with a piece of buttered paper. Pound the trimmings, previously freed from skin, etc., in a mortar till smooth, add the white of an egg, and enough bechamel (well reduceci) to form a farce of desirable consistency, add also a little cream, and rub the whole through a fine siet-e. Poach the scallops in a fairly heated oven for ten minutes, take up and cover with the prepared farce, and place each as done on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes longer. Ha\n ready some well-seasoned prawn or crayfish sauce, incorporate the liquor in which the fish was cooked. If there is any fish farce left o\-er, make and poach a few small qifenelles for garnish. Ha\-e read}- a hot dish with a border of potato puree neatlv decorated, place the scallops of turbot on top, sauce o\-er very carefully, and garnish with the fish quenelles, if such have been made. Serve ver}- hot. Note.—Brill, plaice, and John Dory can be treated in the same way. Bordure de Turbot a la Careme. 2I to 3 lb. turbot, 2 oz. butter, i glass Chablis or Sauterue wiue, iS heads of preserved mushrooms, i dessertspoonful lobster coral, iS prawus, -i- pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), 2-3 truffles, 12 .sauce oysters, i yolk of egg, whiting forcemeat (p. 177), seasoning. Cut the turbot info slices about half tin inch thick, cut each▼ 266 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. in two lengthways, and remove the dark skin and bones, trim and shape neatly, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with white wine and a little mushroom liquor. Put a tiny piece of butter on top of each slice, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Cut the truffles into slices, put them with the mushroom heads in a stewpan, add the oysters, previously bearded, and cut in halves, moisten with a little white sauce, and keep the garnish hot till required. Fill a well-buttered border mould with whiting forcemeat, and poach in the usual manner. When done, unmould on to a round dish. Take up the slices of turbot, and range them neatly on top of the border. Strain the liquor in which the fish was cooked into a stewpan, add the remainder of the sauce, also the lobster coral, previously pounded with an ounce of butter and rubbed through a sieve. Stir over the fire till quite hot, then add the yolk of an egg and about a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk well over the fire, but do not let the sauce boil again. Put the garnish in the centre of the dish. Sauce over the border care- fully with the prepared sauce, put the picked prawns in the centre, and serve at once. Filets de Turbot a la Florentine, This is one of the most tasty ways of serving turbot or any kind of white fish. Cut some turbot into small fillets, remove the skin, and place in a saute-pan well buttered, season the fish, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Range them neatly on a fireproof dish, put a layer of prepared spinach over the fillets, so as to completely cover them, pour over this a layer of bechamel sauce, mixed with sufficient grated cheese to flavour, sprinkle over the top some breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and oiled butter, and bake in a very hot oven for about ten minutes. Filets de Turbot a la Cussy. 2 to 3 lb. turbot (small fish), i glass white wine, 6 cocks’, kernels, 6 mush- rooms and liquor, i oz. butter, i truflle, 6 to 8 small quenelles, t- lemon, 1 pint allemancle sauce (p, 141), gill tomato sauce (p. i6o), pepper and salt, puff-paste, lleurons for garnish.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRliES (HOT). 267 Bone the fish, removing the dark skin, cut the fillets into con- venient oblong pieces, flatten a little with a cutlet bat, trim, and place the fillets in a well-bnttered saute-pan. Moisten with the wine and mushroom liquor, season with pepper and salt, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twelve minutes. Take up, dress neatly on a hot dish, and keep warm. Pour the sauces into the pan containing the liquor, boil up and strain into a stewpan containing the mushrooms, kernels, and quenelles. Allow these to get thoroughly hot. Garnish the dish, reduce the sauce, and pour over the fish, decorate with slices of lemon and fleurons, and serve. Filets de Turbot a la Salamandre. 2i lb. turbot, 2 shallots, i oz. Initter, } gill white wine, stock, i gill white sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, grated cheese, breadcrumbs. Remove the dark skin, fillet, trim, flatten, and pare into heart- shaped slices, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the finely chopped shallots, add the butter divided into little bits, moisten with the white wine and a tablespoonfnl of stock. Cover with buttered paper, cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes, pour off the liquor and put it in a saucepan with the white sauce (velontee or bechamel, p. 161 or p. 142). Heat up, stir in the yolks of eggs and cream, and cook until it binds. Dish up the cooked fillets in a row on a buttered dish. Strain the sauce over the fish so as to well coat it. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese (parmesan or gruyere), and a few breadcrumbs, brown in a very liot oven or under a hot salamander, and serve. Turbot a la Provencale, About 24 11). turbot (middle cut), 4 pint vcloutee sauce (p. ibi), i gill white wine, 2 small shallots chopped fine, i gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonluls capers, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a small liunch parsley and herbs (bouquet). Wash and wipe the fish well, cut it into thick slices or leave whole, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add velontee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to simmer slowly until the fish is done, and baste occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire, and pom- over the fish. Supreme de Turbot a la Royale, About 24 lb. turbot (middle cut), 2 oz. butter, 4 pi'it velontee .sauce, I .shallot, I small glass white wine, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 4 liaiidful of grated Swiss cheese, salt and pepper, nutmeg. Skin and fillet the fish, cut the fillets into heart-shapes, making as little waste as possible. Butter a saute-pan, put in the chopped268 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. shallot, arrange the lillets neatly in the pan, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with the white wine, cover, and cook in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Take up the fillets and dress them on a buttered oblong silver or gratin dish. Put the sauce into the pan in which the fish was cooked, reduce a little, then add the cream, and work in about half the remainder of butter. Pour this over the fillets in the dish, so as to completely cover them, sprinkle over some grated Swiss cheese, and divide the rest of butter, in little bits, here and there. Brown in a qiuck oven for a few minutes, and serve quickly, Souffle de Turbot a la Senn. (Recipe by P. Heuline, M.C.A.) A medium-sized turbot, Chablis, rich white .sauce, truffles, champignons, 1 egg, pint dcmi-glace sauce, i small glass sherry, i teaspoonful finely chopped ox tongue. Poach the turbot very carefully in Chablis, let it cool, then divide the best part into escalopes, and pound the trimmings, adding the egg, a little well-reduced rich white sauce, and the necessary seasoning. Spread half this farce on the escalopes, add a thin layer of chopped truffles and champignons mixed in equal quantities, cover with the remainder of the farce, and spread smoothly with a palette knife. Steam gently for twenty minutes. Meanwhile reduce the demi-glace sauce with the sherry, skim, add the chopped ox- tongue, and season to taste. The fish is served masked with this ecarlate sauce. Turbot bouilli a la Victoria. .Xbout 3 to 4 lb. of turbot, i small onion stuck with a clove, a small bunch of parsley, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, lO small lobster croquettes, 6 prawns, salt, Victoria sauce (p. 162). Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, place it in the fish-kettle, cover well with water, put in the onion and clove, also the parsley, vinegar, and sufficient salt to taste. Let it come to the boil quickly, and simmer until the fish is done, which will take about twenty minutes, more or less, according to the thickness of the fish. When done, drain it and slide on a hot dish. Garnish the dish with the croquettes, prawns, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve with a boat of Victoria sauce. Turbot aux Aubergines. 2 lb. turbot (middle cut), 2 oz. butter, the juice of \ lemon, i tablespoonful finely chopped parsley, i dessertspoonful meat glaze, 3 aubergines (egg plants), salt, pepper, flour, milk, olive oil, and clarified butter. Remove the dark skin from the fish, free it from the bones, and cut into 6 or 8 even-sized slices. Trim these neatly, season with salt and pepper, and dip into milk and then in flour. Melt about i-l- oz. of butter in a saute-pan, place in the fillets of turbot, cover with a buttered paper and cook for fifteen minutes or longer, if needed, in the oven, basting frequently. Remove the skin from the auber- gines, cut them into neat pieces or slices, dip them into flour, and fry a golden brown in a frying-pan containing olive oil and clarified butter in equal proportions. Drain them and season with salt.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 269 Dress the turbot on an oblong dish, sprinkle over the lemon-jnice, then the parsley, and lastly some nnt-brown clarilied butter. Gar- nish with the fried aubergines. Just before serving sprinkle over the fish the meat glaze, previously heated. Turbotin a la Lussinoise. A small young turbot filleted and steeped in marinade (p. 154), then cooked in an onion mirepoix ; upon this a light layer of lisli farce (p. 177) is placed, and then finished in the oven ; sauce anx champignons (p. 145) is poured over the top before serving ; served in casserole. Turbotin a la Reine. I young turbot, fish farce (see ]>. 177), a small glass white wine, mushroom liquor, veloiitee sauce, trullles, champignons, potatoes, egg, breadcrumbs. Procure a very small young turbot known in France as tiirbotin (baby turbot). Wipe it well, trim off the fins, and remove the black skin. Cut an incision down the centre of the fish, loosen the flesh, and remove a portion of the bones, fill the cavity with a light fish farce, and place the fish on a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, moisten — ' with the white wine, Sauterne or Chablis, and some mush- room liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven for about twenty minntes. Have ready a rich veloutee sauce, in- corporate into this the liquor from the fish, reduce it a TUKBOTIN A. LA REINE (SHOWING STYLE OF DRESSING). little, and pour it over the fish on the dish. Return to the oven for another ten or fifteen minutes. Garnish the dish with slices of truffles, mushroom heads, and small marble shapes of plainly cooked potatoes and small fish balls made from fish farce, egged, crumbecl, and fried. Serve hot. LIMANDE—FLOUNDER. Limandes a la Janin {Floimders, Janin Style). 2 large flounders, J- lb. fish quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), i oz. butter, t giU white wine, it gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), 12 crayfish or prawn tails, 2 truffles, 12 sauce oysters, seasoning. Cut the fillets from the flounders, remove the black skin, trim and pare the fillets, spread one side of each with a layer of fish quenelle forcemeat. Fold each in two, or roll them if preferred. Place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, add half the wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook inTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 2/0 the oven till done. Take up the fish, place them in the form of a circle on a dish, and keep hot. Put the sauce and remainder of wine in the saute-pan with the fish liquor, cook for ten minutes, season to taste, and strain through a tammy. Slice the truffles, beard the oysters, and cut them in halves. Heat these with the crayfish or prawn tails in a little stock, or toss them in butter. Place them in the centre of the dish and pour the sauce carefully over the whole. Limandes en Souchet [Souchct of Flounders). 4 to 6 flounders, 2 small onions, i bouquet garni (p. 122), carrot, J turnip, I slice of parsnip, 10 peppercorns, fish stock or water, salt, parsley, thinly cut brown bread and butter, lemon. Trim the fish, and place them in a saute-pan, season with a good pinch of salt, add the onions cut in slices, the bouquet of herbs, and peppercorns, cover with stock or water, allow it to boil, and let simmer slowly for about ten minutes. Cut the carrot, turnip, and parsnip into fine strips (julienne shapes), and cook till tender in fish stock or salted water. Take up the flounders, dish up neatly on a deep entree dish. Strain the liquor, and if found cloudy clarify with raw white of egg. Blanch and chop a little parsley, strain the vegetables, add to the fish liquor, pour this over the fish, sprinkle over with parsley. Garnish with a few thin slices of lemon, and serve with brown bread and butter, which is handed round along with the fish. Note.— Soles and almost any white fish may be served as souchet. A souchet is usually served in hot soup-plates ; one small flounder or half a large one is reckoned as one portion. BARBUE AND BROCHET-^BRILL AND PIKE. Fillets de Barbue a la Grand Due. • I large brill, i lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil. i dessertspoonful of mixed chopped parsley and chives, veloutee sauce, i egg, breadcrumbs, 2 oz. butter, I dessertspoonful finely grated horse-radish, i tablespoonful well- reduced tomato pulp, I tablespoonful cream, 12 mussels, 6 oysters. Remove the dark skin of the brill, fillet it, cut each fillet into neat pieces of convenient size, and trim them neatly. Place them in a large earthenware dish, season with pepper and salt, a few drops of lemon-juice, and add the sweet oil and parsley and chives. Allow the fillets to soak for at least one hour. Have ready some well-reduced veloutee sauce (p. i6i), let it cool a little, then dip each fillet in the sauce so as to well mask them. ^^Ten the sauce has set, cover with fine breadcrumbs, then dip in beaten egg and ernmb again. Shape and smooth the fillets. Heat the butter in a sante-pan, fry the fillets lightly on both sides, drain them on a cloth, dish them up in a circular row on a round dish, and keep hot. Warm up a gill of veloutee sauce, add the horse-radish, tomato pulp, and cream ; when hot, pnt in the cleaned and blanched mussels and bearded oysters, let these get thoroughly hot, but do not let2/1 Dh’I'SSJCI) I-ISll .1X1) I-1 SI I l-XIh’l-ES {IIOI the sauce boil again. I’nt tlie garniture in tlie centre ot the disli, sprinkle witli a little chopped parsley, and pour the sauce round the base ot the dish. When brill is not obtainable, plaice or tnrbot may be substituted. Filets de Barbue a la Madeleine (/'///c/.v of Brill. Madeleine Style). I t)rill, \ It), wliitiu.u; forccincaL (]>. 177). 1 tcaspooni'ul liiu-Iy choppril y'lvni Iht1)s, r 07.. l)uttc'r, .seasoning. ' f?ill I'ich white .stock, i c’"". " panui'ette ” for enunhiuE;. fryinsj-fat. fi'ied parsley. Sauce Marseillaise (p. 153). Fillet the brill, remove the skin, Ihitten the thick ends of the tillets, and cut into eight or ten nc;it oblong pieces of e\-en size. Season and cover one side with hsh forcemeat mixed with the herbs, roll np, place them in buttered paupiette rings, tind arrange them in ;i buttered saute-ptm containing the white stock (the latter must be well lia3'ourcd, otherwise add a small mirepoix). Co\'er with a buttered pa}ier, and cook for about lifteen minutes in the o\’en. When done, take up, let them cool a little, and then remove the rings. Dip each jxmpiette in beaten ('gg and roll in panurette or brown crumbs. Fry in dee]) fat, drain, dish up in a circle on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, place in the centre of the dish, and send to table with a boat of hot Marseillaise sauce. Barbue braisee a FAmiral [Braised Brill). A large brill, mirepoix. \ pint Chablis. white stock. 12 oysters, 12 mussels, cardinal sauce, potatoes, truflles, lemon. Cut the tins and tail off the brill (or large ]daicc, if the former is not obtainable), place it on a bed of ^•egetables (mirepoix) in a turbot kettle, dark skin downwards. Moisten with half a [unt of Chablis wine and white stock, season with salt, cover, and braise over the hre till done, lieard the ovsters, egg and crumb them ^ in white breadcrumbs, and fry them in deep fat ; egg and crumb the mussels in red breadcrumbs (panurette), and fry likewise. Take np the fish, place it on a dish, arrange the ovsters and mussels alternately round the sides, sauce over with a nicelv flavoured cardinal sauce. Put a group of round potatoes (pommes Parisiennes, fried) on each end of the dish, and decorate the centre of the fish with thin slices of truffles and lemon ; ser\-e with a boat of cardinal sauce (p. 144). Barbue a la Russe. - Fillets of brill poached in richly flavoured fish essence (reduced fish stock), sauced over with mushroom or Italieuue sauce, and glazed under the salamander. Brochet a I’Ancienne (Pike. Aiicie)il Sivlc).—Boiled pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mushrooms, and capers. — a la Castelaine {Pike. Castelaine Sivlc).—Pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue, and bacon, all finely minced, braised, served with white sauce, and garnished with dice of lobster, slices of truffles, and oysters.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 272 Brochet a la Cavour {Pike, Cavour Style).—Grilled pike garnished with nouilles, grated horse-radish, and cubes of carrots, served with rich veloutee sauce. — a la Remoulade.—Grilled pike served with a remoulade sauce. Filets de Brochet pique a la Colbert {Fillets of Pike, Colbert Style).— Filleted pike, larded, steamed in the oven, with white wine sauce. — a la Lyonnaise {Fillets of Pike, Lyoncse Style).—Fillets of pike-cooked in white wine sauce, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. CABILLAUD—CODFISH. Cabillaud frit a I’lndienne {Fried Cod, Indian Style). About 11 lb. cod (middle cut of tail end), 2 eggs, 3 French gherkins, lemon, 2 tatilespoonfuls piccalilli, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, salt, cayenne. Cut the fish into five or six neat scallops about half an inch thick. Season with salt and a little cayenne, beat up one egg, boil the other till hard, dip the slices of fish in egg, cover well with bread- crumbs, fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, and dish up. In the meantime prepare a garnish consisting of gherkins, hard-boiled white of egg, and piccalilli, all cut up into julienne strips. Warm up in a little butter, moisten with fish stock, garnish the dish taste- fully with alternate groups of the above and fanciful-cut slices of lemon. Send to table with sauce Indienne (p. 150). Cabillaud a la Maltaise. About 2| lb. codfish (middle cut), pint veloutee sauce (p. i6i), i gill white wine, 2 small shallots (choppeef fine), i gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 ymlks of eggs, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonfuls capers, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a small bunch parsley and herbs (bouquet garni, p. 122). Wash and wipe the fish well, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add veloutee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Simmer slowly until the fish is clone, basting occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire, and pour over the fish. Mousseline de Cabillaud. 12 oz. codfish, free from skin and bones, 3 eggs, 2 oz. butter, i gill cream, 2 oz. flour, I gill fish stock, seasoning, cardinal sauce (p. 134). Pound the fish in a mortar and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and mix over the fire for several minutes without letting the flour brown. Moisten with the fish stock and continue to stir until the mixture becomes a smooth paste. Return the pounded fish to the mortar, add the above preparation, mix thoroughly, and work in the eggs one by one, also gradually the cream, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, andDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 273 cayenne or paprika. Put this into a well-buttered souflle tin, cover with a greased paper, and steam or bake hjr about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with cardinal sauce. This may be poured over the shape or round the base of the dish. Cabillaud recrepi bouilli {Crimped Cod, boiled). 2j lb. crimped cod (middle cut), i medium-sized ouioii, i clove, lo pepper- corns, 3- wineglass French wine vinegar. Wipe the fish with a cloth, place in a fish-kettle, cover completely with cold water, season with a small handful of salt, add the onion, clove, peppercorns, and the vinegar. Let it come to the boil quickly, and allow it to simmer very gently for about five minutes, when the fish will be sufficiently cooked. Drain it well, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve on a hot dish with a suitable sauce. Cabillaud a la Provenpale {Braised Cod with Cream Sauce). About 2\ lb. of cod (middle cut), I pint veloutee sauce (p. 161), i gill of white wine, 2 small shallots (chopped line), 2 oz. of butter, 2 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, 2 teaspoonfuls of capers, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 8 to 10 small lish quenelles, r small bunch of parsley and herbs (bouquet .garni, p. 122). Wash and wipe the fish well, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, add veloutee sauce, white wine, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to braise slowly until the fish is done, basting occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a tammy. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy essence, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire. Dish up the fish, garnish with small fish quenelles, previously poached in stock, sauce over carefully, and serve, Cabillaud a la Dieppoise {Fried Cod, Dieppe Style).—Slices of cod, dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, garnished with parsley, and served with white matelote sauce. — a la Portugaise {Cod, Portuguese Style).—Slices of cod fried, served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy, and mussels. — grille a la Colbert {Grilled Cod, Colbert Style).—Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and well floured, grilled, and served with maitre d’hotel butter. Brandade de Morue aux Olives {Salt Cod Pudding with Olives). I lb. salt cod, 2 large mealy potatoes, 2 shallots, i gill best olive oil, i gill cream, a. little milk, seasoning, 12 large Spanish olives, 12 small pnff pastry rings, fish farce, and piiniento for stuffing olives. Soak the fish for several hours in water, drain and wipe it thoroughly, and then skin and bone it. Heat up the oil in a stew- or saute-pan, and fry in it the fish for a few minutes, take up and drain, and cook the fish till tender in milk and water, and drain well. Peel and cook the potatoes as for mashed potatoes. Peel and chop the shallots, and fry in oil. Pound the fish in a mortar, sTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 274 adding the mashed potatoes. When quite smooth, put all into a stewpan, containing the cream previously heated, work up well with a spatula or wooden spoon, and add the fried shallots. Season to taste with white pepper and krona pepper. Dress this in the centre of a round dish in the form of a pyramid, surround the base with olives, stuffed with fish farce and pimiento poached, and each placed in a small ring of puff pastry. The dish is then ready to serve. MAQUEREAU—MACKEREL. Filets de Maquereaux a la Diable {Devilled Fillets of M.ackerel). 2 good-sized fresh mackerel, the juice of J a lemon, i tablespoonful mixed mustard, i oz. butter, i gill poivrade sauce fp. 157), i tablespoonful Worcester .sauce, i dessertspoonful finely chopped capers, salt and pepper, parsley and lemon for garnish. Wipe the fish and cut the fillets from the bones, season the fillets with salt and cayenne pepper. Sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice, and spread the cut side with a little of the made mustard. Dredge with flour, dissolve the butter, brush over the fillets with this, and cook both sides on a gridiron over a quick fire for about five minutes on each side. Boil up the poivrade sauce with the Worcester sauce and chopped capers, add the remainder of lemon-juice, and cook for five minutes. Dish up the fillets, skin downwards. Pour over the sauce, garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve hot. Filets de Maquereaux a la Maitre d’Hotel, 2 mackerel, oz. bntter, \ oz. flour, i small shallot, 2 tablespoonfuLs mushroom liquor or fish stock, -I- lemon, i large teaspoonful chopped parsley, i gill milk, stock, pepper and salt. Wipe the fish and remove the fillets. Butter a baking-tin or saute-pan, strew over the shallot peeled and finely chopped, place the fillets on this, skin upwards, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice. Moisten with mushroom liquor or fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a mode- rate oven for about fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, cook a few seconds, pour in the milk, a little at a time, and add a little stock (white), stir until it boils, and let simmer for ten minutes. Take up the fish, remove the skin and dress on a hot dish, put the liquor of the fish with shallots into the sauce, boil up and strain, then add the parsley, a few drops of lemon-jnice, season to taste, and pour over the fillets. Maquereau a la Boulonnaise {Mackerel, Boulognese Style).—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. Filets de Maquereau a la Bonnefoy.—Fillets of mackerel, skinned, seasoned, and floured, then fried in butter, like “ Meuniere style,” served with bordelaise sauce, and garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes.275 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). Filets de Maquereau au Gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. Prepared the same as “ Merlan au gratin.” — a rindienne {Fillets of Mackerel, Indian Style).—Braised fillets of mackerel, served with plain rice, with a curry sauce, diluted with a little white wine. — en papillote.— Grilled mackerel fillets, placed in oiled oval paper cases, with champignons and Duxelle puree, and finished in a sharp oven. — en Persil.—Fillets of mackerel, poached in rich fish stock flavoured with parsley, then skinned, dished up, and sauced over with parsley sauce. Garnished or served with potatoes cut in sections and cooked in salt water. — au Vin blanc.—Broiled or sauteed hllets of mackerel, served with white wine sauce. SOLE—SOLE. Soles au Gratin. 2 large soles, white wine, lemon-juice, mushroom liquor, parsley, mush- rooms, Italian sauce (p. 151), butter, breadcrumbs. Skin the soles, cut off the heads, tails, and hns. Make several incisions with a knife across one side of the hsh, place it, cut side upwards, on a well-buttered silver-plated gratin dish. Season with pepper and salt, add half a small glass of white wine, a few drops of lemon-juice, a little mushroom liquor, and some chopped parsley. Place a row of sliced preserved mushrooms down the centre of the hsh, and cover with a rich Italian sauce (p. 151). Sprinkle with brown breadcrumbs, put a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the hsh, and bake in a moderate oven from hfteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of the sole. Place the dish as it leaves the oven on another (larger) dish, and send to table. Soles a la Colbert. Trim 2 good-sized soles and take off both skins. With a sharp- ])ointed knife make an incision alongside the bone, break the bone at each end, remove it carefully without damaging the hsh. Brush the hsh with beaten egg on both sides, and cover well with fresh breadcrumbs. Fry in deep hot fat a golden colour, drain it well on paper or a cloth, dish up and hll the centre of the hsh (the cavity where the Irone was removed) with well-seasoned niaitre d’hote! butter (p. 175), garnish with sprigs of parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. Soles a la Normande. Wipe, skin, and trim two large soles, make an incision about a quarter of an inch deep along each side of the bone of the skinned part. Place in a buttered saute-pan, and season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine, sprinkle with a hnely chopped shallot, place a few bits of butter here and there, and cook it in the276, THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. oven for about ten minutes. Have ready a garniture of prepared oysters, mussels, and button mushrooms. Put the sole on a dish, garnish neatly, and sauce over with Normande sauce (p. 155), in which the garniture has been cooked. Garnish the sides with croLites of bread made from rasped French dinner-rolls (buttered slices browned in the oven). Serve the remaining sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Soles au Parmesan. 2 medium-sized soles, i oz. Hour, i tablespoonful muslii'oom-juice, 2 oz. butter, i-^- oz. grated parmesan, i gill of milk, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Skin, trim, and wipe two medium-sized soles, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, pour over them the mushroom-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven until done. This will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the heat of the oven. In the meantime put the milk to boil, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir over the fire until it becomes fawn colour ; then add the boiling milk, about an ounce of grated parmesan cheese, and a little boiling water. Stir over the fire until it boils, let it simmer for about ten minutes, add a little more water or fish stock should the sauce appear too thick, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. The soles being cooked by this time, place them on an oblong, flat dish, add the liquor which remains in the saute-pan to the sauce, strain it, pour over the fish, and sprinkle with the grated parmesan remaining. Place the dish in the oven or under a hot salamander just long enough for the top to take colour, and serve in the same dish. Soles a la Vatel, 2 medium-sized soles, -i- lb. whiting forcemeat (p. 177), 3 small truffles, 12 prawns (picked), 12 mushroom-heads, 12 cocks’ kernels, i gill white wine, 2 French gherkins, 2 oz. butter, parsley and savoury herbs, pint white sauce, seasoning. Skin the soles, trim off the fins and heads, slit them down the back, and remove the bones without damaging the fish. Season with salt and pepper, and fill the cavities with whiting forcemeat, the latter having been mixed with a little chopped parsley, chopped truffle trimmings, and a tiny pinch of savoury herbs. Place the soles in a buttered saute-pan, moisten them with half a gill white wine, and a tablespoonful of mushroom liquor. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Take up the soles, put them on a buttered dish, and when cold mask over with well-reduced white sauce, made in the following manner : Chop up the fish-bones and put them in the saute-pan where the soles were cooked, add a small piece of butter, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add half the remainder of the wine, cover, and let infuse for another five minutes. Add the white sauce, reduce to half its original quantity, stirring occasionally to prevent burning, season to taste, and pass through a tammy. When cold, mask the277 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). soles as directed. Decorate the lish with fancihdiy cut slices of truiile and gherkins, cover witli a buttered paper, and place in the oven for another ten minntes. Warm up the garniture—truffles (sliced), cocks’ combs, and mushrooms (whole)-—in a little white wine and sauce. Arrange these neatly in groups round the hsh as it leaves the oven, and send to table on the dish in which the soles were cooked. Soles au Vin Blanc. 2 medium-sized soles, i glass Sauterne or Chablis wine, 6 mushrooms (preserved) i small blade of mace, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 small shallots (peeled and chopped finely), -1- gill fish or meat stock, pepper and salt, 1 gill bechamel (p. 142)01- veloutee sauce (p, 161), the juice of I- lemon, parsley for garnish. W’ipe, skin, and trim the soles. Butter a saute-pan, sprinkle over with the chopped shallots, lay in the soles, season with pepper and salt, add the mace, moisten with white wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes or longer. When done, take np the lish, put on a dish, and keep hot. Reduce the lish liquor, add the sauce, a few drops of lemon- juice, and tails of mushrooms finely chopped, boil up, season to taste, and strain over the hsh. Garnish with the heads of mush- rooms slightly tossed in a little butter, and a few sprigs of freshly picked parsley. Serve hot. Paupiettes de Filets de Soles a la Richelieu. 2 large soles, i whiting, 3 oz. breadcrumbs, 3 oz. butter, 4 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. lobster meat, i oz. lobster butter (p. 175), 2 tablespoonfuls cream, I finely chojiped sliallot, i gill white wine, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, 8 small croiites of fried breatl, 8 mushroom-heads, i truffle, b oz. flour, J pint white stock. Skin the soles, remove the hllets, and flatten a little, put the bones in a stewpan with half a pint of water and the stock, reduce to half, and strain. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar till smooth, moisten the breadcrumbs with the cream, add to the pounded fish with the shallot and lobster meat, pound and mix thoroughly. Add' one and a half ounce butter and three yolks of eggs, season with pejiper and salt, add a teaspoonful of chopped jiarsley, mix well, and rub through a sieve. vSpread one side of each fillet with the forcemeat, roll up, trim a little, and wrap each lillet in a piece of buttered paper. Place them closely in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a few' drops of lemon-juice, cook for five minutes in the oven, then add the wine, baste well, and cook another ten minutes, or longer if needed. Spread one side of each croute with a little of the remaining forcemeat, and bake for a few' minutes. Take up the fillets, remove the paper, place each upright on the croutes, put a mushroom-head on each, and keep hot. In the meantime, knead one ounce butter with the Hour, stir over the lire for a few' minutes, add the liquor of the hllets and the reduced stock, stir until it boils, simmer for lifteen minutes, and put in theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 278 yolk of egg. Strain, work in the lobster butter, and season to taste. Dish up the paupiettes, sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, place a star of truffles in the centre of each, and serve. Paupiettes de Soles a la Nipoise. 1 or 2 soles, fish quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), i teaspoonful finely chopped fresh herbs, i teaspoonful of anchovy paste, tomato sauce, i tablespoonfnl parrnesan cheese, i oz. fresh butter, gherkins. Skin the soles, fillet them, and spread each fillet with fish quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), mixed with the herbs, and anchovy, paste. Roll up the fillets, place them on a buttered baking-sheet or pan, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Add the parrnesan cheese to the tomato sauce, pass through a fine tammy cloth, and stir in an ounce of fresh butter. Dish up the fillets (paupiettes), pour over the sauce, garnish with small blanched and braised gherkins {gourgeons ronds de Nice), cut in two, sprinkle the fish with grated cheese, and brown in the oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot. Paupiettes de Soles a I’Empereur. 2 medium-sized soles, 4- lb. turbot or whiting forcemeat {p. 177), i dessert- spoonful chopped chives, chervil, and parsley, i small head celery, i small onion, 2 oz. butter, i gili cream (.sour), 8 small potato cassolettes (made by lining 8 dariole moulds with mashed potato, or puree Duchesse, carefully baked), sea.soning, bechamel sauce (p. 142), grated horse-radish, i small truffle, anchovy essence. Skin the soles, fillet them, trim the fillets and spread them with turbot farce (fish quenelle forcemeat), season them, and roll up as paupiettes. Put an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, also the celery and onion, cut into small pieces or slices, fry a little, and place the paupiettes on top of this. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Heat the cream, add about half a gill of bechamel sauce, season with paprika pepper and a little anchovy essence, whisk in the remainder of butter, and pass through a tammy. Put the cassolettes on a baking-sheet and place a paupiette in each. Sauce over each carefully with the prepared sauce. Bake for a few minutes in a quftk oven. Dish up, sprinkle the top of each paupiette with a little finely-chopped truffle and horse-radish, and serve. Cendrillons de Filets de Soles a la Parisienne. 2 soles, I small glass white wiue, 2 fillets of plaice, i oz. butter, ^ gill cream, J pint sauce Moruay (p. 154), 2 eggs, salt aud pepper, mashed potatoes for border, fryiug-fat. Skin and fillet the soles. Put the Dones and trimmings in a stewpan with a little water and bouquet garni, and simmer until well reduced. Pare the fillets, twist each round the pointed end of a small raw carrot, previously buttered, place them in a buttered saute-pan, and season. Reduce half the Mornay sauce to half its original quantity, incorporate 2 egg-yolks and the whites of eggs whisked into a stiff froth. Cook the fillets in the oven with the279 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). wine and a little fish stock. When done, take up, carefully remove them from the carrots, and fill each with the prepared Mornay mixture. Arrange them on a border of potato puree, and bake in the oven for ten minutes. Cut the fillets of plaice (previously skinned) into very fine strips (about 2 inches long), dip them in milk, and then in flour. Shake well, and fry in deep fat (very hot) for about four minutes. Fill the centre of the dish with these. Pour some Mornay sauce, into which the lk|uor of the fillets of soles, the cream, and the fish stock have been incorporated and then well reduced, round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder of the sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Timbale de Filets de Sole. 2 small soles, lobster or shrimp paste, cardinal sauce, whiting forcemeat (p, 177), I yolk ot egg, cream, supreme sauce, trufttes, paniirette. Skin and fillet the soles, spread inside of each with finely pounded lobster or shrimp paste blended with cardinal sauce (p. 144), roll them u]) separately and poach them for a few minutes in the oven. Let them get cold, and cut each into slices. Butter a timbale mould, and place the fillets against the sides of the mould. Add the yolk of egg and a little cream to the whiting forcemeat, fill the moiilcl with this and steam it for one hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, sauce over with supreme (p. 160) or veloutee sauce (p. 161). Decorate the surface with finely chopped truffles and panurette, and serve. Chartreuse de Filets de Sole. 2 medium-sized thick soles, 3 whitings, 2 eggs, 4 oz. pairade, cream, spinach puree, grated cheese, truffles, flour, butter, meat glaze. Skin and fillet the soles. Prepare a well-reduced fish stock with the bones, and make a farce with the whitings, eggs, panade, and enough cream to work it to a smooth consistency. Butter a flat border-mould, fill it with the whiting forcemeat, duly seasoned, and poach it in the bain-marie or in a sautApan containing a little boiling water. Roll out some short paste (p. 133), stamp out a round the size of the bottom of a round flat entree dish, bake it and fix it on the dish with a little batter or egg-white, upon this turn the border of forcemeat. Fill the centre with alternate layers of fish forcemeat, and seasoned spinach jnirck, sprinkle the layers over with grated cheese. Fold the fillets, season and trim them neatly, arrange them in a circular row in the centre of the dish.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 28o with slices of truffles, sauce over with a little white fish sauce made with fish stock, flour, and butter, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Before serving sprinkle over a little dissolved meat glaze. Serve hot. Filets de Soles a I’Americaine. 2 soles of medium size, white wine, 2 shallots, tomato pulp, veloutee sauce (p. 161), breadcrumbs, lobster butter. Skin the soles, take off the fillets and fold them neatly, after trimming the edges. Season with pepper and salt, and arrange them in a row on a buttered gratin dish (china or plated dish). Moisten with a little white wine, and sprinkle over two small finely chopped shallots. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the oven for five minutes, then pour the liquor from the dish into a previoifsly prepared rich tomato sauce (made with tomato pulp and veloutee, and well reduced). Pour this carefully over the fish so as to com- pletely mask it. Sprinkle over some freshly made breadcrumbs, and place tiny pieces of lobster butter (p. 175) on each fillet. Finish in a sharp oven, allowing about eight minutes to brown the surface, then send to table at once. Filets de Soles aux Aubergines. 2 good-sized soles. 3 aubergines (egg plants), i oz. butter, -J pint olive oil and clarified butter (half of each), tire juice of half a lemon, i teaspoonful meat glaze, i small glass white' wine, salt and pepper, about i oz. Carolina rice, cooked in rich stock, i teaspoonful chopped parsley. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, flatten, pare, and fold them, season with pepper and salt, place them in a well-buttered saute- pan, moisten with lemon-juice and white wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Mean- while cut the aubergines, freed from skin, into cubes or olive shapes, dip them in seasoned flour, and fry a golden colour in olive oil and clarified butter. When done, take up and drain, cook the rice until it is almost dry, and shape it in the centre of a dish, dress the fillets of soles round the rice shape. Melt an ounce of butter and let it get a nut-brown colour (this is called Beurre Noisette), then put in the chopped parsley and pour over the dish, garnish round the base with the fried aubergines, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Blanchaille {Fillets of Soles, Whitebait Style). I large or 2 medium-sized soles, flour, fryiiig-fat, parsley, salt, cayenne. Skin and fillet the fish, shred the fillets as finely as possible or cut them into fine strips the size of whitebait. Put them on a cloth, sprinkle over with flour, shake well, and put them in a frying- basket. Heat up the fat, plunge the basket with about half the quantity of fish into the hot fat, and fry over a quick gas fire a pale golden colour. Take up, drain well, season with salt and cayenne, and fry the remainder of fish in exactly the same manner. Dish up on a lace paper or folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 281 Filets de Soles a la Bovin. I medium-sized sole, 2 oz. butter, the juice of i lemon (strained), 3 to 4 potatoes, salt, mignonette pepper, chopped parsley, i tablespoonful double cream. Skin the sole, cut off the fillets and trim them neatly, place them in a saute-pan, previously buttered, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. Great care must be taken to keep the lillets a nice white colour. Lift out the hllets, arrange them on an oblong dish, and keep hot over a saucepan of boiling water. While the sole is cooking wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into the shape of olives, blanch and drain them, and hnish cooking in butter. Add the cream to the fish liquor, stir over the fire till hot [not boiling), drop in a few tiny bits of butter, season to taste, and strain over the hllets. Surround them with the potato olives, sprinkle some freshly-chopped parsley over the hsh, and send the dish to table. Filets de Soles a la Catalane. 8 or 12 fillets of soles, butter, Jerusalem artichokes, cepes, bechamel sauce (p. 142), cream. Trim and pare eight to twelve hllets of soles, fold them neatly, and place them in a saute-pan containing one ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a puree of Jerusalem artichokes, season to taste, form into a border on a hot dish, and dress the hllets upon this. Fill the centre with cepes, previously tossed in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce the hllets with a well-reduced bcAhamel sauce (maigre, p. 142), into which a small quantity of whipped cream has been incoiq)orated. Filets de Soles a la Chasseur Royale. 3 medium-sized soles, 2 large truflles, i small whiting, l oz. butter, 12 oysters, 12 preserved mushrooms, i glass white wine, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, seasoning, i tablcspoonful cream. Sauce Chasseur Royal (p. 145). Remove the skin from the soles and fillet them. Skin and bone the whiting, pound this in a mortar till smooth, add the jtanade, k oz. butter, salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg ; rni.x thoroughly, and work in the cream and the eggs. Rub thiajugh a hue sieve, hll up a well-buttered huted border mould sprinkled with breadcrumbs or panurette, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Flatten the fillets of soles a little, fold over, range them neatly in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with a small glass of wliite wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven; they will take about ten minutes. Blanch the oysters, remove the beards, cut them into quarters, slice the mushrooms, and put in a small stewpan, moisten with the sauce, cut the truffles into slices, stamp out eight nice stars, and keep for garnish. Add the remainder of slices with the above garnishing, strain the liquor of the fillets into this along with the282 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. sauce, and cook for a few minutes. Unmould the border on to a hot entree dish, dress the hllets neatly on this {en couronne), place the star of truffles on top of each fillet, put the dish in the oven to get thoroughly hot, fill the centre with the prepared garniture, pour a little sauce Chasseur Royal over the garnish and some round the border, and serve the remainder separately with the dish. Filets de Soles a la Carlette. 1 or 2 soles, whiting forcemeat (p. 177), oysters, truffles, mirepoix, a small glass Chablis, veloutee or bechamel sauce, oysters, mussels. Skin and hllet the soles. With the prepared whiting forcemeat mix the hnely chopped blanched oysters and chopped truffles. Season the fillets and cover one side of each with the prepared puree, fold and frim them neatly, and place them in a buttered saute-pan containing a mirepoix of sliced bacon, carrot, onion, bay- leaf, parsley, and other herbs. Moisten with a small glass of Chablis or Sauferne wine, and poach in the oven. When done, dress them on a hot dish in the shape of a circle, sauce over with veloutee or bechamel sauce (maigre, p. 142), made with hsh stock, hll the centre with fried oysters and mussels, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Czarina. 2 medium-sized soles, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots chopped finely, gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), I tablespooiiful concentrated tomato pulp, i small glass white wine, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, | lb. mashed potatoes, i teaspoonful meat glaze, 2 yolks of eggs, a few sprigs of chervil, i teaspoonful chopped chives, grated horse-radish, salt, paprika pepper. Skin, trim, and hllet the soles, put trimmings and bones in a stewpan with a little stock or water, and reduce, adding a little seasoning. Season and fold the hllets, put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter, and slightly brown each side. Cook the shallots in the wine, add the meat glaze, lemon-juice, sauce, a little chopped chives, tomato pulp, and hsh stock, boil up, reduce, and keep hot. Mix the remainder of chopped herbs with the potato puree, add to it half an ounce of butter and the egg-yolks. Stir well over the hre till thoroughly hot. Spread this on a dish to cool. Stamp out an oval shape for each hllet, and fry them in butter. Dress the cooked hllets on these, dish them up, re-heat the sauce and pour over, put a little scraped horse-radish on top of each hllet, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Diocletien. Fillets of soles, stuffed with hsh quenelle forcemeat (p. 177), folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and sherry or Marsala wine, dressed in the form of a border or circle, garnished with small hearts of lettuces (braised), and very small hsh quenelles (poached). Serve with a sauce composed of rich espagnole (p. 148), hsh liquor,' and hnely chopped truffles. Filets de Soles a la Dreux. 2 medium-sized soles, 6 to 8 preserved white mushrooms, i small truffle, I small shallot, i oz. imtter, gill white stock, ^ glass Chablis, a few drops lemon-juice, | gill well-reduced supreme sauce (p. i6o), seasoning.283 DRESSED ElSlI AND EtSII ENTREES (IIOI'). Skin and fillet the soles, trim them and roll them np loosely, place them in a saute-pan containing about half an ounce melted butter, season with pepper and salt, add lemon-juice, stock and wine, and cover with a buttered paper, cook in the oven for about ten minutes. Meanwhile peel and chop the shallot, fry it a pale colour in half an ounce of butter, add the mushrooms, chopped finely, and half the chopjied trnftle, season to taste, moisten w'ith a little sauce and keep hot. Arrange the cooked fillets in a row or circle on a hot dish. Reduce to a glaze the liquor in which the fillets were cooked and add to it the supreme sauce, fill the centre of each fillet with the prepared puree, sauce over carefully, and sprinkle a little chopped truffle on top of each fillet. Serve hot. Filets de Sole Saint Georges. 2 soles, I gill picked .shrimps, i gill lobster sauce, cream, 4 large potatoes, I glass white wine, i lemon, i oz. l)utter. seasoning. Sauce Bercy. Skin and fillet the soles, roll each fillet cut side outwards round the end of a carrot, previously scraped and buttered. Place them carefully on to a buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, and pour over a glass of white wine, cover with buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. W’ash and dry the potatoes, and bake them till quite soft in the oven. Toss the shrimps in a little butter and lemon-juice, add to it the cream and the lobster sauce, and re-heat. Cut the potatoes in halves. Scoop out some of the centre portion, and put a littleTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 284 of the shrimp ragout in each. Slip off the fillets of sole, and fill them with the ragout, then place them in the potatoes, force out a very small border of potato round each fillet, coat with a little white sauce. Re-heat, and dish up round a neatly cut croute of fried bread surmounted with a lemon hatelet. Garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve with sauce Bercy (p. 142). Filets de Soles a la Gastronome. 2 medium-sized soles, lb. whiting forcemeat (p. 177), 2 oz. crayfish butter (beurre d’ecrevisses, p. 175). i egg, panurette or white breadcrumbs, 8 champignons, salt and pepper, fi-ying-fat. Sauce Vin Blanc fp. r62l. Fleurons for garnish (half-moons of puff-paste baked). Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little and spread with forcemeat, mixed with half the quantity of crayfish butter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fold each fillet. Trim the edges with a sharp knife, egg well and crumb with either panurette or white breadcrumbs. Have ready a well-reduced white wine sauce (sauce au vin blanc, p. 162), incorporate the remainder of crayfish butter and the champignons (mitshrooms), finely chopped. Fry the fillets a delicate brown in hot fat. Drain them carefully, and dish up. Pour the sauce round the dish, not over the fillets, garnish with fleurons, and serve. Filets de Soles a la Grand-Due. 2 or 3 soles, Mornay sauce (p. 154), mushroom liquor, truffles, crayfish or prawns, parmesau cheese, butter, asparagus points. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, season them with salt and pepper, fold them and place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a little mushroom liquor (cuisson de champignons), cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce Mornay. Dress the fillets on an oval dish, with alternate slices of truffles and crayfish or prawn tails between the fillets. Mask the whole with the sauce Mornay, sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese and a few drops of oiled butter. Brown the snrface under a salamander or in a very sharp oven. Garnish with cooked asparagus points—these may be placed in the centre or on each side of the dish. The dish is then ready for serving. Filets de Soles a ITndienne. 2 sole.s, lobster puree (see next recipe), i egg, breadcrumbs, seasoning, 6 mushrooms, 2 gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls piccalilli, 4 gill mild curry sauce, frying-fat, plain boiled rice. Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little and spread one side with lobster puree, fold them over in half, pare the sides neatly, season them with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. If liked, this operation may be performed twice. Cut the piccalilli,, gherkins, ancl mnshrooms into fine shreds (julienne strips), put them in a small stewpan with the sauce, and heat up carefully. Fry the fillets a golden colour in clarified dripping or butter, drain them, and dish np in aDI^ESSED EISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 285 circle on a hot dish. Put the garniture in the centre with a little sauce, and serve with a small dish of boiled rice, the same as for a curry. Lobster Puree for Fillets of Soles a I’lndienne. -J- lobster, t oz. butter, i oz. lloiu', i tablespoontul cream, i talilespoonful stock, I yolk of egR. Take the meat of half a lobster, chop it finely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in half an ounce of flour, and cook over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add about a tablespoonful of cream, and the same quantity of milk or stock. Mix thoroughly, and let it cook for a few seconds, then add the chopped lobster-meat, season to taste, mix well with a yolk of egg, let it bind, and use as directed, Filets de Soles a la Marcelle. Fillet two soles, trim them and spread over one side of each with champignon or Duxelle puree (p. 140), fold them and poach in fish stock. Dress them on a round dish in border form, sauce over with Perigueux sauce (p. 156), garnish with pommes Anna {sec Vegetable Chapter) in centre. Serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Messaline, Fillet two soles, season and fold them, and cook in a buttered pan with a little champagne. Dress them neatly on an oval dish and sauce over with a sauce composed of tomatoes and Italian pimiento, garnish with cpiarters of artichoke bottoms tossed in a little fresh butter, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Montreuil, 2 soles, il oz. butter, i gill Chablis or Sautenic wine, the juice of i lemon, 1 dessertspoonful parsley (chopped finely), i tablespoonful liquefied meat glaze, I gill veloutee sauce (p. 161), salt, pepper, and cayenne, 2 or 3 potatoes (cut into small marble shapes). Skin and fillet the soles, put the bones in a stewjtan with enough water to cover, a slice of onion, herbs, and about half the wine, season with salt, and cook for twenty minutes, then strain. Season the fillets, fold or roll them neatly, trim and place them in a buttered saute-pan, add the lemon-juice and remainder of wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take them up, put the veloutee sauce into the liquor, boil up and strain. Re-heat the sauce, add the prepared fish stock, and reduce to its original cpiantity. Now add the chopped parsley, season with a pinch of cayenne, and add half the meat glaze. Cook the small potato balls in salted water. Drain well and blend with the re- mainder of the butter. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with the potato balls (heaped up high), pour the sauce over the fillets, and sprinkle some meat glaze over the whole. Filets de Sole a la Montpensier. 2 soles, I Icmou, 1- glass of white wine, 8 large crayfish, i small sweetbread, I small lobster, 12 champignons, i -l- gill cardinal .sauce i oz, butter, i truffle fleurons, seasoning.286 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Skin and fillet the fish, flatten each flllet a little. Remove the claw portions and legs from the crayfish, and butter each carcase well ; twist a fish fillet I'ound each, and place on a buttered saute-pan, filleted side downwards. Sprinkle over with lemon-juice and mush- room liquor, add half a glass Chablis or Sauterne, and season with salt FILETS DE SOLE A LA MONTPENSIER. and pepper ; cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven. Prepare a ragout with the meat of the crayfish and lobster, cut into fair-sized dice, the sweetbread braised white and cut into cubes, and the mushroom heads. Heat this up in half a gill of cardinal sauce, and season to taste. Put a little butter on top and keep hot. Range the cooked fish fillets as a border on around dish. Fill the centre with the prepared ragout. Strew over the top some linely-shredded truffle, and pour a little hot cardinal sauce round the base of the dish. Garnish with pi;ff paste fleurons, and serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Mornay. 2 medium-sized soles (filleted), i gill white wine, lemon, oz. grated gruyere cheese, pint milk, i oz. grated parmesan, oz. flour, 3 oz. fresh butter, I small onion, i bompict garni (p. 122), pepper and salt, aromatic seasoning. Trim the fillets a little, range them closely and neatly on a buttered saute-pan or oval dish, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a few drops of lemon-juice and white wine, cover with finely sliced onion, put buttered paper on top, and cook in the oven for about eight minutes. Put the milk in a small saucepan, add the bouquet garni, the bones and trimmings left from the sole, and a good pinch of aromatic seasoning, and the essence from the fillets. Let the whole reduce to about half the original quantity. Mix the flour with half the butter, and add to it the stock, previously strained. Stir with a whisk over the fire for about ten minutes.287 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). incorporate the grated cheese and the remainder of the butter. Spread a layer of sauce on an oval flat silver dish, arrange the cooked hllets in a row on this, sauce over well, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese. Put the dish in a very brisk oven for five minutes, or under a hot salamander, to colour the surface, and serve. Filets de Soles a la Normande. These are done in the same way as directed for Sole Nor- mande.” Fold the fillets and dish them up in a row, one over- lapping the other, and place a mnshroom-head on each fillet, and cook as directed. The mussels and oysters are placed in groups round the sides of the fillets. Scallops are, in some cases, used as garnish, but only when mussels are not obtainable. If smelts are in season this dish should be garnished with a few fried smelts in addition to the other garniture. Timbale de Filets de Sole Orientale. 2 large soles or 3 small ones, 3 truffles, i 11). salmon or whiting farce, ragout composed of mushrooms, prawns, truffles, and mus.sels or oysters, bechamel sauce, cream, fish fumet, i glass white wine, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. butter for sauce, -j lb. short crust or nouille paste, seasoning, i hatelet, and small spinach timbales as garniture. Skin and fillet the soles, flatten and pare them. Butter a dome- shaped mould, decorate with truffle cut into small half-moon shapes, and place in the fillets ; coat the interior carefully with the prepared salmon or whiting farce, if the latter is used add a little anchovy essence. Moisten the ragout of mushrooms, prawns, truffles, mussels, etc., with a rich fish sauce, and put this into the centre of288 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the mould, cover with hsh farce to completely fill the mould, and steam it for about forty-five miuutes iu the oveu. Roll out the paste aud line with it a flau riug, shape it neatly, aud bake (blind), then place it on a hot dish. Unmould the fish shape, and put it into the paste crust, garnish with small spinach timbales, insert a hatelet composed of truffles and prawns in the centre, and serve with a boat of rich white fish sauce. Filets de Soles a la Piemontaise. Skin one or more soles, remove the fillets, fold them and place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a small glass of white wine, cover and poach in the oven for ten minutes. When partially cooked, add enough tomato saiice (p. i6o) to well cover the fillets, bake for another five minutes, dish up, pour over the sauce, garnish with small polenta croutons and slices of truffles. Serve hot Filets de Soles en Ramequins. 2 medium-sized soles, h oz. butter, I- glass white wine (Sauterne or Chablis), I gill soubise sauce (puree), i ounce grated parmesan cheese, i white of egg, salt and pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (p. 142), -1 lb. short- crust paste. Roll out the paste to a round shape, about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Place a flan ring (pastry ring) on a greased baking- tin, line the ring with the paste, prick the bottom with a fork, fill the shape with rice, and bake a nice golden colour. Remove the rice while the paste is hot, and replace the crust on the baking-tin. Skin and fillet the sole, trim and flatten the fillets, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, fold neatly, and place on a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with wine, cover with buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Spread the bottom of the paste crust with white sauce, place in the fillets. Mix the soubise puree with the white of egg, previously beaten to a stiff froth, add also the grated cheese, a pinch of white pepper, and a little cayenne. Pour this neatly over the fillets in the crusts. Bake in a hot oven for another si.x to eight minutes, and send to table as soon as it leaves the oven, Filets de Soles a la Royale. Skin one or two soles, remove the fillets, season them and spread a layer of finely minced or pounded truffles and champignons moistened with a little bechamel sauce (p. 142) over one side of each fillet, roll or fold them, place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a glass of Madeira or Marsala wine, cover and cook till tender. Dish np in a row or circle on a hot dish, sauce over with a hot mousseline (p. 155) or hollandaise sauce (p. 150), and serve. Filets de Soles a la Salisbury. 2 or 3 very small lobsters, 4 or 6 fillets of sole, lemon-juice, white stock, rice, mashed potato, button mushrooms, bechamel sauce. Open the lobsters half-way, remove the tails and claws, and clean the interior of the body well. Prepare a light forcemeat withDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 289 the meat obtained from the claws and tails, put a little of the farce at the bottom of each carcase, on top of which place two neatly trimmed and folded lillets of sole. Season with pe]:>per, salt, and a little lemon-]nice, cover each com])letely with the remaining farce. Place them in a sante-pan, add snlTicient white stock, and steam in the oven for about twenty minntes. Have ready a mixture of rice cooked in stock, and half its (piantity of mashed potatoes, season to taste, and form a border. Dress the coqnilles of lobster on to the border. Garnish with a few heads of button mushrooms. Pnt a tablespoonful of well-reduced bechamel (p. 142) or veloutec sauce (p. 161) in each coquille, and serve. Filets de Soles a la Sezet. 1 or 2 soles, tarragon, white wine, i gill bechamel, V gill tomato jnilp, [ oz. anchovy butter, lobster croquettes, truffles, anchovy fillets, champignons. Skin and fillet the soles, fold the hllets and place them in a buttered saute-pan. Season with jiepper and salt, sprinkle with a few linely chopped tarragon-leaves, moisten with a small glass of white wine, and cook in the oven from ten to lifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce of the bechamel (p. 142), tomato pulp, and anchovy blitter—the latter must be whisked in. Dish up the cooked hllets, incorporate the liquor (strained) into the sauce, and pour the sauce over the hllets, garnish with very small lobster or crayhsh croquettes (see “ Cotelettes de Homard ”), slices of truffles, anchovy hllets (curled up), and mushroom-heads. Serve hot. Filets de Soles a la Suetone. Fillets of soles, seasoned, folded and poached in the oven with butter and a little white wine. Prepare a Normande sauce (p. 155), incorporate some pounded pistachio kernels (blanched). Dress the hllets on a dish, sauce over neatly, and garnish the dish with small shells of prawns or shrimps and pistachios, seasoned with ivhite sauce. Filets de Soles en Surprise (Fillets of Soles in Cases). 2 medium-sized soles, i small carrot, i hay-leaf, i glass Chalilis, if oz. butter, 4 pint milk, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 oz. Hour (sifted), 3 eggs, salt and pepper to taste, souffle cases. Skin and fillet the soles, cut up the bones and cook in the milk with a sliced carrot and bay-leaf. Cut the hllets in halves, roll up, and place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with wine, cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about eight minutes. For the souffle mixture strain the milk into a clean stewpan, add the remainder of the butter and bring to the boil, stir in the flour whilst boiling, and work vigorously with a wooden spoon or spatula until the sides of the pan are left clean, then add the grated cheese, and season with cayenne. Let cool a little, and stir in the yolks of the eggs and tlie white of two previously whisked to a stiff froth. Butter some small china or paper souffle cases, put a dessertspoonful of the mixture in each, upon this place half a fillet of sole with a little of the liquor of the TTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 290 fish. Fill up each case with the souffle mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Note.—If preferred, this dish may be baked in one large souffle dish. Filets de Soles a la Trouville. 3 medium-sized soles, i gill white wine, stock, 12 champignons, 12 mussels, 12 oysters. -1- pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), 2 yolks eggs, a pat of fresh butter, meat glaze. Skin the soles, take up the fillets, fold, flatten slightly, and trim them neatly. Place in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, moisten with a gill of white wine and a little white stock. Cover, and let cook for about fifteen minutes over a quick fire, drain the fillets, and keep warm. Next put in the saute-pan the mushroom-heads, with a little of their liquor, also the mussels and oysters, and cook until thoroughly hot. Dish up the fillets en couronne, alternating each fillet with one large oyster. Reduce the gravy with half a pint of bechamel sauce (p. 142), take out mushrooms and mussels, thicken with the yolks of eggs and fresh butter. Pass through a napkin or tammy cloth, return to the pan with the garnishing, arrange the heads of mushrooms on the top of the fillets, and the remainder of garnishing in the centre of dish, sauce over, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Filets de Soles a la Victoria. Fold the fillets and cook them in a buttered saute-pan with a little white wine. Dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in the oven. Sauce over with a well reduced white wine sauce (sauce au Vin Blanc, p. 162), garnish with chopped truffle and tongue, also with some small fleurons (half- moons of puff-paste). Filets de Soles a la Xavier. 2 medium-sized soles,' 4 gill white wine, \ oz. butter, salt, pepper, enough whiting forcemeat (p. 177) to fill a border mould, Xavier sauce (p. 163). Skin the soles, fillet them, tie each fillet in a knot, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in a quick oven. Butter a border mould, fill up with whiting forcemeat. Cook in the oven in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out on a hot dish. Dress the cooked fillets in a circle on the border. Cover completely with hot Xavier sauce. Sprinkle a few drops of liquid meat glaze over the surface, and serve. Use fish-bones and essence of the fillets in making the above sauce. Soles a la Bismark.—Fillets of soles soaked in a marinade of oil, vinegar, and parsley, spread with fish farce, and chopped truffles, and rolled up ; poached in white wine and fish stock. Dressed on a border of pota-fo puree, browned in oven, sauced over with sauce Normande, sprinkled with grated parmesan, and browned in a very hot oven. — a la Boitel.—Fillets of soles folded and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor. Dressed on dish, sauced over with white mush- room sauce, and baked in a sharp oven.291 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOI). Soles a la Bosniaque.— Poached sole in fish hqnor and white wine, seasoned with salt and paprika ; garnished with julienne strips ot carrots, celery and mushrooms cooked in fish stock ; sauce avi Vin Blanc, a la Cancale.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in fish liquor and oyster liquor ; dressed and garnished with iioached oysters ; sauced over with maitre d'hotel sauce. - a la Cherbourg.—Rolled or folded fillets of soles braised in white wine, dished np and garnished with oysters, crayfish and mussels ; sauced over with cardinal sauce. — Chevaliere.—Rolled fillets of sole stuffed with fish farce mixed with chopiied truftles ; poached in white wine ; sauced over with crayfish bisque sauce, with finely chopped truffles on top. — a la Diable.—Rolled fillets of soles, crumbed and fried, served in paper cases, and devilled sauce poured over or separately. — a I’Empereur.—Braised fillets of soles, rolled and stuffed with turbot farce (see Fish Farce), dressed on cassolettes of paste or rice, sauced over with bechamel cream sauce, flavoured with paprika, anchovy essence ; tops sprinkled with finely chopped truffle and grated horse-radish. j — a la Florentine.—Fillets of soles dressed on, and coated with, a light spinach puree (see Vegetable Chapter), enriched with cream and flavoured with grated cheese ; baked in hot oven. — a la Hambourgeoise.—Steamed sole, garnished with julienne strips of carrot and celery root cooked in stock, sauced over with sauce au Vin Blanc. — a la Joinville {Fillets of Sole, Joinville Style).—Rolled fillets of soles poached in fish liquor, dressed with truftles, prawns, crawfish, smelts, and small fish quenelles, served with Joinville. — a la Louisa-Anna.—Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor. Dressed on bread croutons, sauced over with rich, well-reduced tomato sauce, with slice of truffle in centre. — a la Marechale.—Fillets of soles folded or rolled and cooked in reduced white sauce. When set and cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; bechamel sauce is served separately with this dish. — a la Marie-Louise.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor ; dressed in centre of oblong dish, with a fancy border of potato puree ; baked in oven ; sauced over with supreme sauce, with border of green mousseline sauce (add green herb puree), julienne strips of truffles sprinkled over the fillets ; served hot. — a la Michel.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with foie-gras farce and poached, dressed on a border of green peas, with ragout of prawns m centre ; sauce Supreme. — a la Nantua.—Fillets of soles poached in white wine and fish liquor. Dressed on rice or semolina border, and sauced over with allemande sauce, flavoured with crayfish butter, centre filled with prawn or crayfish tails, heated up in allemande sauce. — a la Niqoise.—Baked rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with fish farce, herbs, and anchovy paste ; sauced over with a rich tomato puree containing grated parmesan cheese ; garnished with small gherkins, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in oven.292 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Soles a I’Orly (Fillets of Sole, Orly Style).—Fried fillets of soles with tomato sauce, and fried jiarsley. — a la Pagani.—A dish similar to “ Sole au Vin Blanc,” finished with a rich veloutce sauce, garnished with mussels, champignons, and grated cheese, browned in a sharp oven. — en Souchet [Soitchel of Soles).—Boiled soles with finely cut strijis of carrot and turnijis and chopped parsley. — a la St. Germain.—Rolled fillets of soles, egged and crumbed, fried in butter. Dressed on slices of lemon, with stiff bearnaise sauce forced on fop of each ; garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Sully.—Fillets of soles folded, egged, and crumbed, slighfly fried in butter, dressed with a mushroom head on each fillet, sauced over with bearnaise, and around the base of the dish with anchovy sauce. — a la Venitienne.—Folded fillets of soles poached in white wine, butter, and parsley ; dressed in circle, centre garnished with mushroom heads; sauced with hollandaise sauce. — a la Villeroise.—Soles cooked in cider and mushroom liquor, garnished with cubes of plain boiled potatoes. Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon.—Fillets of soles, folded, and braised with a little rich stock, wine, etc., dressed on a l)order of savoury rice, centre of dish filled with a ragout of oysters and mussels. Sauce Supreme. Filets de Soles Belles de Nuit.—Fillets of soles forced with fish farce and prawns ; poached in white wine ; garnished with mushroom heads, potato cubes, and tomatoes ; sauce Normande. — a la Dauphifte.—Fillets of soles, spread over with whiting or other fish farce mi.xed with finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallots, folded, and braised in the oven. When cold, trimmed, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. Small lobster claws are inserted at the end of each fillet. Served with lobster sauce. — a la Neuville. — Fillets of soles, folded, seasoned, and cooked in a saute-pan with a dash of white wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, dressed in gratin style with white sauce, mushrooms, and oysters, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and cheese, and browned in oven before serving. Hatelets de Sole a la Villeroi.—Fillets of soles, spread with forcemeat and rolled up, fastened on silver skewers, egged and crumbed, and baked with plenty of butter in hot oven. Served with a rich tomato sauce. Paupiettes de Soles Alexandra.—Fillets of soles spread with lobster farce and rolled into paupiettes ; poached in Sauterne and fish stock. Garnished with truffles, anchovy butter, and new potatoes tossed in butter. Sauce cardinal. SoulTle de Soles.—Fillets of soles set in a buttered fireproof dish and seasoned with an ample proportion of Mornay sauce, surface covered with seasoned beaten egg whites, and baked. Timbale de Filets de Sole a la Savoy.—Poached fillets of sole finished in rich white wine sauce, mi.xed with truffle, macaroni and crayfish, served in a baked paste crust made of pate a foncer (p. 133).DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 293 GRONDIN—GURNET. Grondin a la Talleyrand. Scale and clean a fair-sized gurnet, remove the fillets and cut them in convenient pieces, put them in a well-buttered sante-pan with a small onion cut in slices, some parsley, two or three cloves, a bay-leaf, pepper and salt, and a sufficient quantity of white stock and wine (Chablis or Sauterne). Cover with a buttered paper, cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. When the fish is cooked, drain it well, and serve it in an entree dish with the following sauce poured over it : Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, when melted mix in a dessertspoonful of flour, add the liquor from the hsh, a gill of fish stock, and stir till the sauce is quite smooth. Add two teaspoonfuls of cream, continue cooking, but be careful not to let it actually boil. Lastly, add the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and flavour with pepper and salt, strain over the fish, and serve hot, Grondin farci etouffe {Baked- Gurnet, stuffed). I gurnet, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i egg, 2 finely chopped shallots, i oz. chopped beef meat, teaspoonful mixed herbs (powdered), 3 chopped mush- rooms, I oz. butter, 1 glass white wine, sauce matelote (p. 152), anchovy essence. Scale and clean the gurnet, wash, and dry it inside and out with a cloth. Prepare the stuffing by mixing the above-mentioned ingredients with about half an egg, or more if found necessary, and season to taste. Stuff the inside of the lish with this, and sew it up. Truss with its tail in its mouth, place it in a well-bnttered saute-pan or baking-tin, brush the surface with egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Place a few tiny pieces of bntter on top of the fish, moisten with the wine. Bake in a sharp oven for about twenty minutes. Place the fish on a croCiton of fried bread, untruss it, and round the base of the dish pour the sauce, previously mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and the liquor of the fish. MERLAN—WHITING. Filets de Merlans au Gratin {Whiting Fillets, Gratin Style). .3 small whitings filleted, 8 preserved mushrooms, i glass Chablis or Sauterne, 2 oz. butter, choppied parsley, i gill sauce Italienne (p. 151), -f- lemon, pepper and salt, breadcrumbs. Trim the fillets neatly, lay them on a buttered silver-plated gratin or fire-proof china dish, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon- juice, season with pepper and salt, add the wine and a little mush- room liquor if handy, put in the oven for ten minutes. Take out, pour oft the liquor, and pnt into the sauce. Boil up the sauce, cut the mushrooms into slices, and lay neatly in a row on the fillets. Sauce over carefully, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, place a few little bits of butter here and there, and bake for another ten minutes. Place the gratin dish on amfiher dish, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 294 Filets de Merlans a la Juive {Whiting Fillets, Jewish Style). 3 medium-sized skinned whitings, 2 taljlespoonfuls sweet oil, i oz. of vinegar (French wine), i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, parsley for garnish, frying-batter, fat for frying, Joinville sauce (p. 151). Remove the fillets, flatten them slightly, fold them in two, pare neatly, and put in a deep dish. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley, let them lie in soak for one or two hours. Take out, drain, dip in frying-batter (previously prepared), fry in hot clarified fat or butter a golden colour, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with Joinville sauce. Filets de Merlans frits a la Tyrolienne. 5 medium-sized whitings (skinned), olive oil, egg, breadcrumbs, flour, lemons, parsley, tomato sauce (p. 160). Remove the fillets of the whitings, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, roll in flour, dip in egg beaten with a tablespoonful of sweet oil, roll in fresh breadcrumbs, and smooth them with a knife. Dip the ends of each fillet in egg, thrust a small skewer through each to give them the shape of rings, fry light brown in clear hot fat, drain them carefully on a drainer, pile up on a folded napkin, put some fried parsley on the top, garnish with quartered lemons, and serve with tomato sauce. Souffle de Merlan {Whiting SoufjU). 2 small or i large whiting, 2 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, -|- pint milk, i gill cream, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 4 eggs, pepper and salt. Skin the fish, free it from bones, and chop the fillets finely or pound in a mortar. Butter a souffle tin, fasten a well-buttered, paper band round the top, and sprinkle the inside of the mould with a few brown breadcrumbs. Put the remainder of the butter into a stewpan, when hot stir in the flour, cook a little without browning, add the milk, stir briskly until smooth, then add the cream. Cook a little longer, stirring all the while, remove from the fire, cool a little, work in the yolks of eggs, anchovy essence, and lastly the fish. Mix well, season with pepper and salt. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the mixture, pour it into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Dish up, and serve with a suitable fish sauce. Quenelles de Merlans, Joinville.—Quenelles made of whiting forcemeat, with shrimp salpicon in centre, poached in fish stock ; served with Joinville sauce, fleurons as garnish. Merlan a I’ltalienne {Whiting, Italian Style).—Steamed whiting with brown mushroom sairce. Merlan frit a la Fran^aise {Fried Whiting, French Style).—Wipe the fish and score along the sides, remove the bones Irut not the skin, dij) in milk, Hour well and fry in fat until crisp ; serve with anchovy and shrimp sauce. — a I’Anglaise.—Skinned whiting dipped in flour, then egged and crumbed and tried in clarified butter; served witli parsley butter sauce.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HUT;. 293 Merlan frit a la Richelieu.—Proceed the same as directed for ‘'Whiting a I’Anglaise,” and just before serving place a lew thin slices of truffles on fhe fish. Filets de Merlans a la Comtesse {Fillets of Whiting, Countess Style).— Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases and served with a garnish of crayfish tails and small liver forcemeat balls. Sauce bearnaise tomate. — a la Maitre d’Hotel {Fillets of Whiting, Hotel-keeper's Style).—Broiled fillets of whiting served in parsley butter, or poached and served with maitre d’hotel sauce. — a I’Orly {Fillets of Whiting, Orly Style).—Filleted whiting, seasoned with oil and vinegar, and choppecl parsley, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served wifh tomato sauce. ROUGET—RED MULLET. Rougets grilles a la Maitre d’Hotel {Grilled Red Mullet). 4 red mullet, maitre d’hotel butter (p. 175), salad oil. Wipe the fish with a clamp cloth, and make 3 to 4 incisions across them with a sharp knife. Place on a dish, pour over the salad oil, season with salt and pepper, and let them stand thus for about an hour. Grease the gridiron, place on it the red mullet, and cook them slowly over or in front of a bright fire. Turn frecpiently. When done, take up the fish. Put some maitre d’hotel butter on a dish, place the red mullet upon this, spread a little more maitre d’hotel butter on top of each fish, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve hot. Rougets a la FranQillon. 4 red mullet, olive oil, flour, bread, butter, anchovy butter, tomato sauce, potatoes, parsley. Clean the fish, make a few incisions on each side of them, dip in oil and flour, and grill in front of or over a clear fire. Have ready four croutes of bread, cut and shaped the same as the fish, and fried in clarified butter. Butter the croutes with anchovy butter, and place one grilled red mullet on each. Dish up and pour a well-prepared tomato sauce, into which a small quantity of anchovy butter (p. 174) has been incorporated, over the fish. Garnish with fried straw potatoes and fried parsley, and serve. Rougets en Filets a la Juive {Fillets of Red Mullet, Jewish Style). 3 to 4 red mullets, 1 gill sweet oil. i teaspoouful chopped parsley mixed with a few leaves of fennel and tarragon, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, i egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat or frying-oil, pepper and salt, tartare (p. 160) or vert-pre sauce (p, 161). Carefully remove the fillets from the fish, lay them in a pie- dish, sprinkle over some salt, a good pinch of pepper, and the chopped parsley, etc., pour over the oil and let the fillets lie there for at least one hour. Take up the fillets one by one, drain, but do not wipe them. Dip each into flour, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs or panurette. Fry in hot fat or oil a golden colour, drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with parsley, and send to table with a boat of tartare sauce (p. 160)296 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or vert-pre sauce. In place of crumbing the fillets, they may be dipped in a frying-batter. Fillets of soles or whiting done in this fashion are also very nice. Rougets a la Portugaise [Red Mullet, Portuguese Style). Clean the required number of small red mullet, wipe and dry them, and arrange them on a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper and lemon-juice, and sprinkle over with oiled butter. Cook them in the oven for ten minutes. Have ready a tomato puree, flavoured with a little meat glaze, and let it reduce to the consistency of a half-glaze. Arrange the red mullet on a buttered silver-plated dish. Pass the prepared sauce through a tammy cloth, and cover the fish well with the sauce. Put the dish in a fairly hot oven for another ten minutes, and send to table. Rougets a la Venitienne [Red Mullet, Venetian Style). 4 or S red mullet, i dessertspoonful each of chopped parsley, onion, mush- rooms, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil, a small glass sherry, white stock, J pint brown sauce (p. 144), anchovy essence, sugar, large Spanish olives, fish forcemeat (p. 177), truffles. Clean, wash, and dry the fish, put into a saute-pan the parsley, onions, mushrooms, oil, and sherry. Lay in the mullet, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little white stock, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about half an hour. When done, remove the fish, take off the oily substance from the pan, add the brown sauce, one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and a pinch of sugar ; let it boil for a few minutes, and pass through a sieve. Garnish the mullet with olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom-heads, and truffle. Put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, sauce round the dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. The remainder of the sauce can be served separately in a boat. Rougets a la Nantaise.—Grilled red mullet, served with demi-glace sauce, flavoured with shallots, wine, and puree of fish roes, garnished with slices of lemon. — a la NiQoise.—Grilled red mullet, garnished with tomatoes tossed in butter, anchovy fillets, olives and capers. — a la Marseillaise.—Red mullet broiled in butter, then finished in tomato and onion stew, suitably flavoured, and served like Bouillabaisse. — a la Villeroi.—Marinaded red mullet, dipped in villeroi sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — en Papillotes (Red Mxdlet in Papers).—The fish, after being pre- pared for cooking, are wrapped up separately in oiled paper, the ends being twisted ; they are then broiled or grilled, dished up, and served with a brown sauce, “ aux fines herbes.” — au Fenouil.—Red mullet with incisions cut across on each side, then marinaded in olive oil, lemon-juice, chojqrcd fennel, parsley, and l)acon slices. The fish is tlien wi'ajqred vvifb the bacon in oiled paper and is thus grilled.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 297 Rougets a la Marechale.—Fillets of red mullet dipped in oiled butter and coated with finely-chopped truffle, then broiled in clarihed butter and served with slices of truffle placed on each hllet. — a la Polonaise.—Red mullet slightly coated with Hour and fried in clarihed butter. Dished u]i and sauced over with hsh essence, thickened with egg-yolks and cream, garnished with croutons and slices of lemon. ANGUILLE—EEL. Anguille a I’Espagnole {Eels, Spanish Style). I or 2 eels (skinned), 2 tablespoonfuls flour, -t gill sweet oil, 12 sweet abnonds, I clove of garlic, 3 peppercorns, a pinch of saffron, salt, i glass port wine, small fried bread croutes for garnish, chopped parsley, lemon-juice. Clean, wash, and dry the fish, cut off the heads and tails, and divide into neat pieces ; with the Hour mix one teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip in the fish, fry a nice colour in hot oil, and drain well. Put them in a stewpan, add the garlic, previously 'fried in oil, saffron, peppercorns, wine, fish stock or water, to cover the fish. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred coarsely, bake a light colour in the oven, add these to the stew, and let it simmer slowly till tender. Dish up neatly, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, garnish with croutes, and serve. Anguilles en Matelote {Matelote of Eel). Skin two large eels, and cut them into convenient sized pieces ; wash, drain, and wipe them, dip each piece in seasoned flour and place in a saute-pan containing a mirepoix of two finely sliced onions, a clove of garlic, 10 peppercorns, a bay-leaf, a small bouquet of herbs, and 2 oz. of butter. Fry the fish in this over a quick fire, then add a glass of claret and a tablespoonful of brandy ; cover the pan and cook thus for a few minutes longer. Transfer the pieces of eel into a stewpan and add 2 doz. par-fried peeled button onions, I doz. mushroom heads (champignons), and 3-4 rashers of lean bacon cut in dice shapes ; strain over the liquor left in the saute-pan, also about a pint of Matelote or Bordeaux sauce, and cook gently for another half an hour, or till the eels are quite tender. Skim occasionally and season to taste ; dish up in a casserole dish with glazed croutons on top, besprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. Fritot d’Anguilles ala Remoulade {Eried Eel, Rcmouladc Sauce). I good-sized eel, 3 yolks of egg, i teaspoonfiil oiled butter, breadcrumbs, a few sprigs of parsley, i- teaspoouful sweet herbs, pepper, salt, fat for frying, 4 lemon, remoulade sauce (p. 158). Wash and clean the eel, remove tail and head, split open and take out the bone, cut into neat pieces about li- inch long, dry well on a cloth and dip in a little flour, previously mixed with sufficient salt and pepper to season. Beat the yolks of eggs, add the oiled butter, savoury herbs, and parsley finely chopped. Coat the pieces well with this, then roll in lu'eadcrumbs. Fry in hotTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 298 fat a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve with a boat of remoulade sauce. Fried eels should always be served with an acid sauce ; lemon- juice squeezed over the fish just before serving will improve the flavour. Anguille a la Beaucaire.—Boned eels stuffed with whiting farce, mixed with chopped mushrooms, dressed in spiral form in baking dish or casserole, and braised with white sauce, small onions, and mushrooms. — a la Broche.—Grilled eel with parsley butter. — en caisses.—Braised eel served in small china souflle cases. — a la Durand.—Boned eels, stuffed with whiting farce, curled up and trussed, braised with butter and vegetable mirepoix. — a la Florimond.—Marinaded eels, wrapped in oiled paper and baked in oven, served with parsley butter and echalote sauce. — glacee.—Rolled fillets of eel, broiled, and glazed with a rich brown sauce and meat glaze. — a ritalienne [Stewed Eel, Italian Style).—Stewed eel with small savoury rice timbales. — a la Maconnaise.—Eel stewed in Burgundy wine sauce, with crayfish tails and oysters. — a la Menagere.—Split eel, grilled, spread over with maitre d’hotel butter and mustard. — a la Meuniere.—Boned eel, cut in portion pieces, dipped in flour and fried in butter, served with noisette butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. — a I’Orly.—Fillets of eel, egged and crumbed or dipped ia frying batter, and fried in deep fat, served with tomato sauce. — a la Pompadour.—Boiled eel, coated with white sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried ; egged sauce or choron sauce, and small potato balls. — a la Poulette.—Fricasseed eel in parsley sauce. — a la Romaine.—Small piece of eel stewed with butter sauce, green peas, and finely cut lettuces, served in casserole. — a la Rouennaise.—Boned eel, cut in portions, stewed in matelote sauce, garnished with oysters, soft roes, champignons, and fried smelts. — a la Tartare [Fried Eel, with Tartare Sauce).—Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter, fried, dished up en couronne with Tartare sauce in centre. — a la Venitienne.—Rolled eel fillets, cooked [i.e. poached) in court- bouillon and glazed in oven, garnished with dice cut champignons and fish roe ; sauce Vraitienne. EPERLANS—SMELTS. Eperlans au Citron [Fried Smelts with Lemon). Frying is undoubtedly the best way of cooking this delicious fish. They may be coated with egg and breadcrumbs or frying2CJQ DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). batter. Fried smelts are excellent cold as well as hot. The follow- ing method is a good one : \\'ipe the smelts with a damp cloth (on no account empty them), dip them in flour seasoned with salt, shake them, brush over with beaten egg, and then roll in panurette. This is a special kind of red breadcrumbs (a Continental preparation, which may be obtained at most high-class grocers), or, failing this, roll in ordinary breadcrumbs. Have ready some smoking hot fat, and fry the fish until golden brown. Drain on paper or cloth, dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and slices or quarters of lemon. Thinly-cut brown bread and butter should be handed round. Eperlans en Brochettes [Fried Smelts on Skewers). I dozen smelts, i egg, breadcrumbs, seasoning, clarified dripping or lard for frying. Wipe the smelts with a wet cloth, dry with a clean dry cloth. Dip them in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Curl them up, and fasten each on a small skewer. Put them in a frying- basket and plunge into a pan of very hot fat. Fry the smelts a delicate golden brown. Turn them on a cloth or some kitchen paper and drain well, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. Garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. Eperlans a la Celestine [Baked Smelts, CeUstine Style). I dozen smelts, -t pint pancake batter, lb. whiting forcemeat (p. 177), I truffle, 6 small prawns, i oz. butter, remoulade sauce (p. 158). Prepare very thin pancakes, spread one side of half the pan- cakes with whiting forcemeat, well seasoned and mixed with a little cream, press the plain pancakes on top lightly, and cut into triangles. Split the smelts longways, take out the bones, leaving the heads, but remove the eyes from them. Mix the remaining forcemeat with some chopped truffle, and fill the inside of the smelts with this. Cover one side of each triangle of pancake with a layer of forcemeat, place on them the smelts rolled up. Stand on a buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan, cover with buttered paper, cook in a slow <jven for fifteen minutes, dish up, garnish with prawns, and serve with remoulade sauce. Eperlans farcis a la Pouraine [Stuffed Smelts, Pouraine Style). 12 large smelts, whiting forcemeat (p. 177), 6 mushrooms, parsley, butter, flour, bechamel sauce (p. 142). Clean the smelts, make an incision the whole length of the fish and remove the centre bone. Fill them with the forcemeat well mixed with the finely chopped mushrooms and chopped parsley. Close them up neatly, dip each in flour, place on a well-buttered dish ; pour over some oiled butter, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up, cover with hot sauce bechamel. Brown the surface in the oven or under a salamander, garnish with lemon cpiarters and parsley.300 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Chartreuse d’Eperlans a la St. Maude {Chartreuse of Smelts). 15 large smelts, about i| lb. white fish farce, i egg, breadcrumbs, frying fat, sauce Mande, finely shredded celery or white part of endive as garnish, seasoning. Prepare a whiting farce with i lb. whiting freed from skin and bone, also the fillets of three smelts, 2 whites of eggs, i gill cream, and seasoning. Pound the lish in a mortar till quite smooth, then work in the egg-whites, season and rub through a fine sieve, keep on the ice for an hour, and add the whipped cream last. When the fish farce is prepared test its consistency. Fillet 8-9 smelts, butter a large, plain chartreuse mould, and line the sides with the fillets of smelts, placing them in a slanting fashion, and put the mould on the ice for an hour or so, Fill the prepared mould with the fish farce; this must be done well but carefully so as not to disturb the small fillets. Poach on top of the stove or in the oven, covered with a buttered paper, for about forty minutes. Egg and crumb the remaining smelts, and shape each round by inserting the tails into the mouth ; fry them in hot fat. Turn out the mould carefully on to a hot dish, saifce over with “ Sauce Mande,” place the fried smelts on top, garnish with finely shredded celery, and serve Sauce Mande.—This consists of i-f gill of Hollandaise sauce, into which i tablespoonful of cooked cucumber puree, i table- spoonful of fish essence, i dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, and a grate of lemon rind have been incorporated,DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 301 -Souffle d’Eperlans {Souffle of Smelts). 12 medium-sized smelts, i small whiting, i tahlcspoonful well-reduced bechamel sauce (p. 142), i white of egg, i truffle, oz. butter, | gill cream, seasoning, Joinville sauce (p. 151). Wipe the smelts with a damp cloth, bone them, skin and bone the whiting, pound both smelts and whiting in a mortar till smooth, add the bechamel sauce, and season with salt, pep])cr, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. As all the ingredients used must be as cold as possible to prevent curdling, it is best to keej) them on the ice till wanted. Incorporate the white of egg, and rub all through a line hair sieve. Whip about a cpiarter of a gill of double cream, and mix this with the above. Keep the basin containing the farce on the ice whilst stirring in the cream. Grease a plain timbale or charlotte mould with clarified butter, decorate the bottom with fancifully-cut slices of truffle, arrange in the form of a pretty border or rosette. Three-parts hll the mould with the preparation, and poach in the usual manner. PETONCLES—SCALLOPS, ETC. Petoncles en Fricassee {Scallops in White Sauce). Wash 18 scallops or escalops, as these are often called. Washing in this instance is absolutely necessary, because they are often found to be gritty. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient milk and water to cover, add a small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, also half a bay-leaf and a pinch of salt, and boil for hfteen minutes. Take up, strain, and finish cooking in white sauce (p. 163). An extra piece of fresh butter or a tablespoonful of cream should be added at the finish. For the seasoning a tiny pinch of cayenne or a grate of nutmeg is recommended. Petoncles a la Provengale {Scallops in Provencale Style). 18 scallops, -1- pint of white stock, 2 oz. of butter, i- gill cream, i small onion, 2 shallots, i oz. flour, 3 yolks of eggs, 3 mushrooms. Put the scallops in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, and cook for ten minutes. Peel and chop finely the onion and shallots, blanch them in water, and drain. Put them in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, cook until light brown, add the flour, stir a few minutes over the fire, moisten with scalloji liquor and the stock, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Stir in the yolks of eggs one at a time, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, put in the scallops, let them get thoroughly hot, but on no account allow the sauce to boil. Mix in the cream just before serving, dress the scallops neatly on a dish, pour the remaining sauce round them, garnish the dish with tleurons of puff-pastry, and serve. Petoncles au Gratin. Pre})are and cook the scallops as above directed, dress in dome- shape on a buttered gratin-dishi sauce over thickly with the sauce, then sprinkle over with breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, place a few small bits of butter here and there on the surface, andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 302 bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Place the gratin dish on another dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Monies a la Poulette [Mussels, Poulctic Style). Cook the mussels, after they are thoroughly washed, in fast boiling salted water for about fifteen mimites. All the shells should then open. If, hcjwever, one or more remain closed, it may be taken as an indication of a poisonous mussel being present, in which case it is best to throw away the lot. Granted the mussels may be safely used, remove one shell of each, and fill the others containing the bivalve with a well seasoned and well reduced poulette sauce. Cover the surface with breadcrumbs and a tiny bit of butter. Place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Moules a la Californie {Mussels, California Style). Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, finely chopped cooked onions, parsley, and veloutee sauce, Blanchailles [Wkitchait). I quart whitebait, flour, salt, and pepper, lard for frying, lemon, brown bread, and butter. Keep the whitebait on the ice until the last moment, drain thoroughly. Sprinkle a good handful of flour on a dry cloth, put in the fish, flour well, fold and shake gently, but sufficiently well to separate each fish. Shake out into a wire basket and plunge into boiling. lard, fry a pale golden colour (two minutes is suffi- cient to cook them), and shake gently all the time they are cooking. W'hen done, put on to a clean cloth or paper to absorb the fat, sprinkle with salt and pepper (a little cayenne if liked), dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin, and serve with slices of lemon and thinly-cut brown bread and butter. Melettes [Sprats). Although not considered a fine fish, sprats are highly appre- ciated and enjoyed by many. It is an inexpensive and dainty little fish, and in flavour not unlike sardines. In fact, many cheap, so-called sardines are sprats preserved in oil. They can be grilled, fried, pickled or smoke-dried, but grilling is the best and most popular way. Owing to their oily nature, they require no other preparation beyond cleaning and flouring. They are often broiled in an omelet or frying pan, but it is best to dredge them with a little flour before cooking them. They require from six to eight minutes to cook, grilling or broiling. Serve them with quarters of lemon and thin slices of brown bread and butter. Melettes frites [Fried Sprats). Wdpe the fish well with a cloth, dust with flour, and broil in a frying-pan over a clear fire for about ten minutes, season with salt, dish up, and serve with quarters of lemon and thinly cut buttered slices of brown bread.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 303 Fried Sprats (Another way). Wipe the fish, as above, dip in trying-batter (p. 135). and coat each hsh well, drop into hot fat or lard, fry a golden colour, drain on a cloth, season with salt and cayenne, serve with tomato sance (p. 160) and cpiartered lemons. A third method for cooking sprats is as follows : Wipe the lish as above, dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, fry in hot fat or lard, and serve as above directed. Coquilles de Poisson (Scalloped Fish). Fish coqnilles can be made from almost any kind of cooked fish, but turbot, salmon or cod are particularly adapted [for this dish. Remove the skin and bones from the lish and flake it, not too linely. Thoroughly wash and clean some scallop shells and butter them : put a tablespoonfnl of bechamel sauce (p. 142) in each shell. upon this put a layer of flaked fish, season with salt and pepper, and cover with more sauce, continue thus until the shells are filled. Coat the top layer of fish with sauce, sprinkle over with bread- crumbs, and place a few small bits of butter here and there. Put the shells on a baking-sheet and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. HUITRES—OYSTERS. Beignets d’Huitres (Oyster Fritters). 12 plump oysters, (.) thin slices of streaky bacon, frying-batter (p. 135I frying-fat, parsley, 3 lemon. Beard the oysters, and sprinkle over with lemon-juice, flatten the bacon with a cutlet-bat, and cut each slice in two crossways, roll up each oyster in a half-slice of bacon, and trim the edges. Dip304 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. each oyster and bacon into the batter—covering completely—and drop one by one into boiling fat or clarified butter. Fry a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Cromesquis aux Huitres {Oyster Kromeskis). doz. sauce oysters. 3 yolks of eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls creme de riz, 1 oz. butter, 12 thin slices of bacon, i tablespooniul of cream, lemon, white pepper, salt, and mace ; frying-batter. Lard or dripping for frying parsley. Blanch and beard the oysters, preserve the liquor. Mince them coarsely, put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the oysters, season with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of ground mace, stir in the creme de riz (ground rice), add the liquor of the oysters, the cream, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley. When hot, stir in the yolks of the eggs, let them bind, and put the mixture on a plate or dish to cool. Divide into twelve equal portions, shape into little rolls, wrap each in a piece of thinly cut bacon, dip in batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Souffle aux Huitres {Oyster Souffle). 2 small whitings, 8 large sauce oysters, i-^- oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, about \ pint milk, ^ gill cream, teaspoonful anchovy essence, 3 eggs, seasoning. Skin and fillet the whitings, and pound in a mortar. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and cook a little without brown- ing, moisten with the milk and oyster liquor, stir briskly until quite smooth, add the cream, cook a little longer, stirring all the while. Remove the beards from the oysters, cut the latter into dice, and put them into the mixture, qdd salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, work in the yolks of eggs, the anchovy essence, and the pounded fish. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the mixture. Three-parts fill a well-buttered souffle- tin or charlotte mould, steam for about forty-five minutes, unmould, and serve with a white sauce. Huitres a la Dubarry {Oysters, Dubarry Style). 6 to 8 Dutch potatoes of even size, 18 to 24 small oysters, 2 tablespoonfuls supreme sauce (p. 160), i tablespoonful of double cream, gill Chablis, salt and pepper, i oz. fresh butter, i yolk of egg. Wash and dry the potatoes, cut off a small portion at each end and place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, bake in a hot oven till quite done. Remove a portion of the inside of each potato, rub this through a sieve whilst hot, and mix half an ounce of butter, one yolk of egg, and a little seasoning. Beard the oysters, put them in a stewpan with the liquor and the wine, cover, let them get thoroughly hot without actually boiling, then take up, drain off the liquid, add the supreme sauce and cream, season to taste, and mix carefully. Place the potatoes in a row on a buttered metal-plated dish, put four oysters and a little sauce in each. Put the prepared potato puree in a forcing-bag, force out a neat border round each potato, cover the top of each with the sauce mixture, and in so doing endeavour to make a neat garnish. Brush over30 s DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). with a little beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven for a few minutes. Serve the dish as soon as it leaves the oven. Huitres a la Salamandre {Breaded Oysters). 1 doz. large Colchester or Whitstable oysters, supreme sauce (p. 160), parmesan cheese, butter, breadcrumbs, lemon-juice, cayenne. Take the oysters from the shells and jint them in a fireproof saucepan with their liquor and a few drops of lemon-juice, and let them get hot, but not boiling. Remove from the fire and let them get cold, then drain them on a cloth, and remove the beards, \\kash the upper shell of each oyster, let dry, and place them in a baking- tin. Put a teaspoonful of supreme (p. 160) or bechamel (p. 142) sauce in each shell, place the oyster upon this, cover with more sauce, season with a tiny pinch of cayenne or Nepanl pepper. Sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a little oiled butter. Brown the surface by means of a salamander or sharp oven, dish up, and send to the table immediately. Fricassee d’Huitres {White Oyster Stew). 2 doz. large oysters, 2I- oz. butter, J oz. flour, i gill white stock, f- gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful of lemon-juice, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, 10 small heart-shaped slices of fried bread. Open the oysters, preserve the liquor, remove the beards, put the oysters into a stewpan, add one ounce of butter, a little oyster liquor, a pinch of salt, nutmeg, and pepper. Stir over the fire for two minutes, and strain. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning, dilute with the liquor from the oysters, the remainder of the oyster liquor and the stock, stir until it boils, and simmer for about ten minutes. Add the cream, yolks of eggs, lemon-juice, and stir over the fire a few seconds longer, so as to bind the yolks. Pass the sauce through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, pour it in a saute- pan with the oysters, heat thoroughly, but on no account allow it to boil. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with croCites of fried bread and a few sprigs of })arsley Quenelles aux Huitres {Oyster Quenelles). 18 large oysters, 4 gill bechamel sauce (p. 142). i lb. raw white fish, 2j oz. butter, 4 oz. panade, yolks of 3 eggs. J gill cream, 4- lemon, meat glaze, salt, pepper, cayenne, aromatic seasoning, mashed potatoes for border. Free the fish from skin and bones, pound in a mortar till smooth, add two yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, and the panade, season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning. Work in about two tablespoonfuls of cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Blanch and beard the oysters (preserve the liquor), butter eight small quenelle moulds, line well with the quenelle mixture, place an oyster in the centre of each, and fill up with the same. Put them in a saute-pan with a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Shape a dozen small quenelles (small egg or ball shapes), poach them in a little stock, put them with the re- mainder of the oysters (previously cut in dice) in a small stewpan, u306 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. add half an ounce of butter, and toss over the lire for a few minutes. Moisten with the bechamel sauce and the oyster liquor, previously reduced, mix a little cream with a yolk of egg, and add to the ragout, season with a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, unmould the quenelles, arrange them neatly on the border, put the little quenelles and oysters above mentioned in the centre, coat over with the sauce, sprinkle over a few drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. It is best to boil up the bechamel sauce and oyster liquor together, adding the egg-yolk and cream, and then strain over the oysters and quenelles, as when once added the ragout must not be allowed to boil again, else it will curdle. Quenelles frites aux Huitres [Fried Oyster Quenelles). Blanch and beard 12 to 18 large sauce oysters, drain them, and mask each with a layer of chicken forcemeat (Farce de Volatile, p. 178). The farce must cover the oysters on both sides. Egg and crumb them twice, and fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of piquante or white wine sauce. Boiichees aux Huitres [Oyster Patties). 1 lb. of puff-paste (p. 133), 2 doz. oysters, I- gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, t teaspoonful lemon-juice, i oz. flour, parsley, salt, pepper, fish broth. Prepare the puff or feuilletage paste in the usual way, roll out about a quarter of an inch thick, put it on the ice for five minutes. Stamp out with a 3-inch fancy pastry-cutter eight or nine rounds, turn over, and place them on a baking-sheet, brush the surface with beaten egg, trace an incision with a smaller round cutter, previously dipped in hot water. Bake in hot oven for about twenty minutes, take out the soft part of the inside, save the lids, and keep the patties warm until required. Put the oysters, with their liquor, into a saucepan, let them come to the boil, drain them, remove beards, and cut each oyster in two (save the liquor). Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the floiir, cook a little, dilute with the oyster liquor and sufficient fish stock to form a sauce, and let it boil for about ten minutes. Add the yolks of eggs and the cream, stir well, but do not let it boil again, season to taste with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Heat the oysters in the sauce, fill the puff-paste cases, put on the covers, and dish up on a hot dish, with a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley, and serve. Petites Boiichees a la Suedoise [Swedish Fish Patties). Puff-paste, white fish (cooked), lobster, crayfish tails, broiled bacon, veloutee sauce, parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, lobster butter, parsley. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp some rounds to line ten to twelve small patty-pans, trim the edges, fill them with dried peas or rice, and bake in a hot oven. Allow them to cool a little, take out the peas, but do not take the paste crust out of the patty-pans. Prepare a ragout of white fish, lobster.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 307 crayfish tails, and broiled bacon, all being cut in dice, in equal pro- portions. Heat with two spoonfuls of velontee (p. 161) or bechamel sauce (p. 142). Fill up the patties, sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs ; put a few bits of lobster butter on top, and brown in a hot oven. Take them out of the pans, dish uj) on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. HOMARD-LOBSTER. Souflles de Homard a la Bourgeoise. I small lobster, i oz. lobster butter, 2 small French rolls or milk bread, 3-.( yolks of eggs, seasoning, t small whiting, bechamel sauce (p. 142), milk. Split the lobster, remove the meat, and cut it into small dice. Free the rolls from crust and cut the soft part into slices, then soak in tepid milk. Skin and bone the whiting, pound the flesh in a mortar, when line add one-third of the lobster, half the lobster butter, and the bread, well squeezed. Pound till cpiite smooth, then rub through a fine sieve. Season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and incorporate 3-4 yolks of eggs ; test the mixture, and if found too stiff add a little cream. Butter and fill a number of small fish-shaped entree moulds, and poach them in the oven in the usual way. Toss the remainder of lobster meat in the lobster butter over a cjuick fire, season, and add 1-2 tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Un- mould the quenelles, and dress them in a circle on a hot dish. Put the lobster ragout in the centre, and serve hot. Homard a I’Americaine {Lobster, American Style). I lobster, 2 shallots, i 02. butter, i gill white wine (Chablis), i gill tomato sauce (p. 160), I gill espagnole sauce (p. 148), and cayenne pepper. Remove the tail from the lobster and cut it into scallops, place them in a circle on a silver dish or fireproof china dish. Fry the shallots (previously chopped) in the butter, add the remainder ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 308 the lobster meat, moisten with wine, boil up, and add the two sauces. Take out the meat, and dish up, reduce the sauce, season with cayenne pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice, pour over the dish, garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve. Homard a la Newbury {Creamed Lobster). Remove the meat from a medium-sized lobster and chop it finely. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and mix with half a gill of double cream, a few drops of lemon-juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of krona pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the minced lobster, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, then add the cream, etc. Stir con- tinuously till it thickens, and serve out on small rounds of toasted and buttered or fried bread. Garnish with sprigs of crisp parsley. Cotelettes de Homard {Lobster Cutlets). I large lobster, i oz. butter, 2 shallots, peeled and chopped finely, i gill well-reduced bechamel sauce (p. 142), 4 chopped preserved mushrooms, I egg and i yolk of egg, salt, pepper, cayenne, panurette or breadcrumbs, and frying-fat. Split the lobster in half, take out all the meat and chop finely. Put the butter in a small stewpan, add the shallots, and fry them a golden colour, put in the lobster meat, stir well for a few minutes, then add the sauce. When thoroughly hot put in one yolk of egg, and cook for another minute or two, remove the pan from the fire, add salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and turn on to a buttered dish to cool. Strew some breadcrumbs on a paste-board, divide the lobster mixture into pieces about the size of a small egg, and give each the shape of a cutlet. Dip each cutlet in beaten egg, cover with panurette or breadcrumbs, shape again, smoothing each cutlet with the blade of a knife. Fry in a frying-basket in plenty of hot fat or lard until nicely browned. Drain on paper, insert a small piece of a lobster leg into the small end of each cutlet, dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a hot dish, put a little fried parsley in the centre. Hot tomato sauce (p. 160) should be handed. Lobster Croquettes are made in the same manner, but shaped into corks or balls, and should be somewhat smaller than cutlets. Homard fare! an gratin {Stuffed Lobster, ait gratin). I large lobster, 2 finely chopped shallots, butter, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce (p. 142). I tablespoonful cream, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, I saltspoonful chopped tarragon, I lemon, i egg, nutmeg, fried bread- crumbs, Danoise sauce. Split the lobster lengthwise, reserve the spawn, remove the meat from the body and claws, and scrape the shells clean. Cut the nicest pieces into neat slices, and mince the rest rather finely. Fry the shallots a golden colour in oz. butter, add the lobster meat, bechamel sauce, cream, parsley, tarragon, and the juice of half a lemon. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, stir over the fire until hot, add the egg well-beaten, and stir until the egg binds. Fill up the shells, sprinkle with fried breadcrumbs, put a few dropsDRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 309 of melted butter over the surface, aud bake for teu minutes iu a moderate oveu. Dish up, place a handful of fried parsley iu the centre, and stick a few lobster sprays here and there. Sauce Danoise (p. 147) should be handed. Coquilles de Homard a la Gauloise {Lobster in Shells). 1 hen lobster (boiled), i whiting, 4 oz. Initter, 4 oz. panade, 2 whole eggs and I yolk, i teaspoonful anchovy jiaste, i trultle, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and caj-enne. Break the lobster shell, remove the meat, reserve coral and spawn, cut the tail into neat scallops. Pound the coral aud spawn with a little butter, put in a stewpan with the scallops, let it get thoroughly hot, and put on one side. Skin and bone the whiting, put the hllets with the remainder of the lobster meat in a mortar, pound till smooth, add the panade, remainder of the butter, and eggs, one by one, and the anchovy paste. Season with a jiinch of salt, half a pinch each of cayenne pepper aud nutmeg, mi.x thoroughly, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter some small coquille moulds, decorate them with thin strips of truffle, line the moulds with some of the forcemeat, place a nice scallop of lobster in the centre of each, and fill up with lobster forcemeat. Cook in a saute-pan half filled with water for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn out on a hot dish, sauce round with hot cardinal sauce, and serve. Note.—The lobster butter in which the scallops were cooked should be utilised for the sauce. Mousse de Homard [Lobster Mousse). This is prepared in the same manner as salmon mousse (see p. 260), omitting the salmon, and using instead t lb. lobster meat and I lb. whiting free from skin and bones. Souffle de Homard a I’Aurora [Lobster Souffle, Aurora Style). 2 hen lobsters, 6 eggs, t pint well-reduced bechamel sauce (p. 142), pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Split the lobster, remove the flesh from the shell, and pound in the mortar until very fine. Add the sauce (hot) by degrees, also the yolks of eggs, and the seasoning. Rub all through a sieve and put in a basin, beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix all lightly together, put it in a well-buttered mould or some ten or twelve small timbale moulds, steam for an hour and a quarter. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Aurora sauce (p. 141). Homard a la Bechamel {Baked Lobster, Bechamel Style).—Shells of lobster stuffed with a mixture of minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce and seasoning, and baked. -- - saute a la Dumas.—Lobster meat tossed in butter and finished in Genoise or other brown fish sauce, flavoured with white wine, paprika, and lemon juice. — a la Gloucester [Lobster, Gloucester Style).—Stewed lobster, the meat only being dished up, and served with a sauce composed of lobster butter, egg-yolks, and meat extract or glaze.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Homard a la Suedoise {Lobster, Swedish Fashion).—Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould, and sauced over with auchovy sauce. Escalopes de Langouste a la Cardinal. I crawfish or large lobster, 6 to 8 prawns, t oz. panade, eggs, salt, pepper, and paprika : i or 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (p, 142), 6 to 8 small eggs, 2 to 3 slices of truffle, fresh breadcrumbs, frying-fat, consisting of half dripping and half clarified butter, cardinal sauce (p. 144). Break the crawfish or lobster (reserve the spawn and coral, if any), remove the meat and mince small. Heat up in a stewpan the panade, a little butter, and enough white sauce to moisten, when hot add two yolks of eggs, season to taste, and stir over the fire till the mixture binds. Spread on a dish or plate and set to cool. Shape six to eight oval croquettes with the ends pointed and the centre of each made hollow (one side only), egg and crumb them carefully, and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Take up, drain, dish up in a row on a hot dish, place a small trimmed poached egg in the centre of each croquette. Cover over very carefully with well-reduced cardinal sauce, insert a prawn at each end of the croquettes. Place a star or half-moon of truffle in the centre of each, and serve hot. Filets de St. Pierre a la Genoise [John Dory, Genoese Style). I dory, I gill picked shrimps, 2 smelts, i teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 egg, about 2 oz. panade, i oz. butter, pepper and salt, i tablespoonful Chablis or Sauterne, Genoise sauce (p. 149). Wash the fish, wipe it, and remove the fillets (the bones, etc., may be used for the Genoise sauce). Pare the fillets neatly and cut them into oblong pieces. Remove the bones and heads from the smelts, pound them together with the shrimps in a mortar till quite smooth, add the panade, anchovy essence, and moisten with the egg. Mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub the whole through a sieve. Spread each piece of fillet with this farce, fold over, place them on a well-buttered saute-pan, season lightly, moisten with the wine and a few drops of lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes or longer, according to the thickness of the fillets. Take up care- fully, dish up on a hot dish. Pour some previously prepared Gchioise sauce into the pan in which the fish was cooked, boil up, and strain over the fillets. Serve hot. Rale a la Bourgeoise {Skate, Bourgeoise Style). 2 lb. skate, bouquet garni (p. 122), ij oz. butter, i oz. flour, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i onion, pint stock, i glass white wine, pepper, and salt. Wash the skate, cut in pieces, put fins and skin into a pan with the stock or water, bring to the boil, and skim, add the onion, sliced, and bouquet, simmer half an hour, and strain. Heat butter, stir in the flour, when brown add stock, lemon-juice, wine, and piecesDRESSED EISIl AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). 31 i tor crust, 12 oz. flour, 6 oz. lard, 2 yolks of egg. of skate, season to taste, simmer abont a quarter ol an hour, or until skate is cooked. Dish up, reduce sauce and strain over. Garnish with a few croutons of bread, glazed over with extract of meat, and serve hot. Rale au Beurre Noir. Wash, trim, and boil the lish in salted water, sufficient to cover, adding a sliced carrot and half an onion, if liked. When done, take up, drain well, and dish up. Fry i-i oz. butter until nut-brown, take off the stove, add a teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice, pour quickly over the skate, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Note.—Fish stock and sauces of any kind may be greatly improved by the addition of a small quantity of meat glaze or some Lemco. Half a teaspoonful is the proportion used for every half- pint of sauce or weak stock. Croquettes de Poisson [Fish Croquettes). q lb. cold fish freed from skin and bones, i gill of weh-rediiced bechamel sauce (p. 142), I dessertspoonful anchovy essence, i yolk of egg and i whole egg, salt and pepper, panurette or breadcrumbs, parsley, frying-fat. Shred the fish as finely as possible or mince very small, heat up the sauce, add the anchovy essence, season to taste, and stir in the minced fish, ^^'hen thoroughly hot stir in one yolk of egg, let it bind, and turn the mixture on a jilate to cool. Make np into even-sized cutlet shapes, dip in beaten egg, crumb well, either with panurette or ordinary breadcrumbs. Fry in deep fat a golden colour, drain well, insert a small piece of macaroni at each end of the cutlets, dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pate de Poisson a I’Americaine {American Fish Pie). -h 11). cooked turbot, cod or haddock, lb. mashed potatoes, 2 oz. butter,, t pint white sauce, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 volks and i whole egg, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Break the fish into flakes, removing skin and bones, pnt it in a stewpan with oz. butter, stir a little over the fire, and add half the sauce and half the cheese, season to taste, and heat up. Heat the potato puree with an ounce of butter, stir well, season to taste, and bind with two egg-yolks. Line a well-buttered pie-dish with a half-inch layer of potato puree, add a layer of sauce and the prepared fish, cover with another layer of sauce, and lastly cover all with potato puree. Smooth the surface, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle with grated cheese and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Mark the top prettily with the point of a knife, place the dish in a pan containing a little water, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes or until the top of the pie is nicely browned. Pate de Poisson a la Mariniere (Raised Fish Pie). I sole, I eel, i glass claret, i onion (sliced), 12 button onions, 2 cloves, I clove of garlic, h oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i dessertspoonful anchovy essence, b mushrooms, 6 prawns or !2 shrimps (picked), pepper and salt, t lemon,THE NEW- CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 312 Prepare a pate-crust as follows : Rub the flour and lard together until quite smooth, add one yolk of egg and a little cold water, and knead into a stiff paste, keep on the ice for an hour; then knead ae-ain. roll out about half an inch thick and line the inside of a well- buttered raised pie-mould (placed on a greased baking-tin), press the paste firmly against the sides, and line with buttered paper. Trim the edges, fill up with rice or dried peas, lay a piece of buttered paper on top, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with same. Trim the edges, ornament it neatly with a pastry- pincher or otherwise, brush the top with yolk of egg, and decorate according to fancy, with fanciful cuts of paste, leaf-shapes, stars, crescents, etc., brush over with egg, and bake in a slow oven for about an hour. Cut round the inside of the edge and lift up the cover, remove the rice or peas and paper, and brush the inside with egg, take off the mould and keep the crust in a warm place until wanted. Skin the sole and eel, remove the fillets from the sole, and shape them in a twist, bone the eel, and cut it into pieces. Put the fish in a stewpan with the wine, one gill water, the sliced onion, cloves, and garlic, season to taste, cover, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Lift out the fish, and keep hot. Brown the flour in an ounce of butter, moisten with the liquor of the fish, and a little fish stock. Stir and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain, add the anchovy- essence, a little lemon-juice, heads of mushrooms, the tails of prawns or shrimps, and the button onions fried in butter and finished in the oven till tender, let the whole get thoroughly heated, then put in the fish. Heat again, arrange the whole neatly in the pie-crust, put on the cover, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Timbales de Poisson a la Marigny [Fish Timbales). Butter 8 to lo small dariole moulds and place a slice of truffle at the bottom of each. Line with a well-prepared white fish farce, fiavonred with lobster bntter. Fill the centre with a salpicon com- posed of prawn or crayfish tails, blanched herrings’ roes, and truffles, moistened with allemande sauce, cover each mould with more fish farce, and poach in the bain-marie in the oven for aboxit twenty minutes. Unmould, dish up neatly in the form of a crown, and ponr a well-prepared hollandaise sauce (p. 150), flavoured and coloured with prawn or crayfish butter, in the centre. Serve hot. Ponding de Poisson [Fish Pudding). Take a pound of cooked white fish, turbot, cod, haddock or whiting, free it from skin and bones. Chop finely 3 to 4 ounces of R.\ISED PIE MOULD.DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT). beef suet, and pound it in a mortar, to this add tlic lisli, and pound likewise. Next incorporate about two ounces of soft bread, pre- viously soaked in milk. Continue to pound till the mixture is quite smooth, adding two well-beaten eggs. Put this in a basin and moisten with not quite a gill of fish stock or else milk. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Three-parts lill a buttered plain pudding mould, steam for rather more than an hour. Unmould on to a hot dish, sauce over with bechamel (p. 142) or ordinary white sauce, sprinkle the top with a little chopped lobster coral or panurette, and serve hot. Vol-au-Vent de Poisson a la Chambord [Vol-au-Vcut of Fish). 2 lb. puff-paste, 6 crayfish tails, 2 truffles, 6 mushrooms, i8 small fish cpienelles, and 12 bearded oysters, pint ol (tenoise sauce (p. 149). Make the puff-paste in the usual way, give it six turns, roll out three-quarters of an inch thick, cut it into the desired size of I the voi-au-vent (round or oval), turn the paste over on to a baking- j sheet, brush the top over with beaten egg, make a circular incision (to form the lid) about a cjuarter of an inch deep ; this is best done with a large round cutter or a sharp-pointed knife. Put the paste in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked remove the lid, scoop out the soft part of the inside, brush the inside of the crust with egg, and })ut back into the oven for a few minutes. Prepare the garni- ture, warm it up in the sauce, let it cook slowly for hve minutes. Put the vol-au-vent crust on a deep dish, lill with the garniture, cover with the lid, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve hot. Timbale de Merluche, Milanaise [Smoked Haddock, Timbale). ' " ''IJ4-6 07.. spaghetti, 2 oz. butter, i whiting, i small smoked haddock, 6 mush- Jrooms, I gill picked shrimps, i gill cream, i egg, salt and pepper, tomato , "sauce (p. i6o). Cook the spaghetti in fast boiling salted water till tender, then drain them and spread them on a cloth. Well butter a largeTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 314 bomb-shaped mould (jdain), and line the inside with the spaghetti, beginning at the centre of the bottom of the mould and coiling the spaghetti round and round until the mould is com- pletely hlled. Brush over well with soft butter and stand on the ice to cool. Prepare a hsh farce by pounding the skinned and boned whiting ; when smooth add the cream and the white of egg, season to taste, and rub through a hire sieve. Spread the inside of the mould with a little of this farce. Cook the haddock with an ounce of butter in the oven for ten minutes, then remove the skin and bones, and chop the meat hnefy. Melt the remainder of butter in a stewpan, put in the above, also the mushrooms previously cut into hne shreds, and the shrimps. Mix well, season to taste, and add the rest of the hsh farce and egg-yolk. Fill up the prepared mould with this and steam for about half an hour. Dish up, serve with rich tomato sauce, and garnish with stuffed olives {see “ Brandade de Morue aux Olives ”). Carre let frit, Sauce Persil.—Fillets of flounder egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, seasoned with parsley sauce. Esturgeon a I’Anchois.—Boiled sturgeon with anchovy sauce. — a la Cardinal {Sturgeon, Cardinal Style).—Boiled sturgeon garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayhsh, and served with cardinal sauce. Darne d’Esturgeon a la Milanaise {Sturgeon Steak, Milanese Style).— Middle piece or steak of sturgeon braised, garnished with eel-pout livers and crayhsh tails. Papillotes d’Esturgeon.—Sturgeon hllets seasoned, rolled up, broiled in butter, and served in paper cases. Staudines de Poissons a la Russe {a Russian Dish).—Fillets of soles and small hllets of salmon, poached in hsh liquor, and dressed alternately in crown shape, masked with aspic, and served with iced horse- radish sauce. Sterlet a la Russe {Sterlet, Russian Style).—Grilled or broiled slices of sterlet, dressed with braised button onions, small ball-shaped fried potatoes, and served with anchovy sauce. COLD FISH ENTREES, ETC. Cotelettes de Homard a 1’Aspic {Lobster Cutlets in Aspic). I small hen lobster, i ripe tomato, 2 anchovies, 2 oz. picked shrimps, i oz. butter, about i pint aspic jelly (p. 132), seasoning. Line ten cutlet moulds with aspic jelly. Split the lobster, remove the meat, and cut into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut the tomato in slices, remove skin and pips. Set a slice of lobster and tomato in each mould. Wash and bone the anchovy, ponnd in a mortar with the butter and shrimps, moisten with sufficient aspic to make the mixture set, and rub through a hne sieve. Season to taste, put it into the moulds, and hnish with a thin layer of aspic. When set, turn out. Dish up neatly on aCOLD FISH AND FlSH ENTREES. 3'S round dish, (ill the centre with the remainder of lobster meat and tomato cut into dice. Garnish with chopped aspic and })arsley. Keep in a cool place till required for table. Mayonnaise de Homard {Mayonnaise of Lobster). 1 large lobster, 4 filleted Gorgona anchovies, i hard-boiled egg. 6 stoned olives, 4 pickled French gherkins, a small handful of capers, i large or 2 small lettuces, a few slices of pickled beetroot, mayonnaise (p. 152). Cut the lobster lengthways, take out all the meat—if there is any coral chop it line and reserve to ornament the surface. Break the claws, take out the meat intact, if possible. Cut the remainder of the meat into neat pieces. Wash and dry the lettuce, tear the good leaves into convenient pieces. Put the cut lobster meat and salad into a basin, add sufficient mayonnaise sauce to season, mingle gently, and j)lace in a heap in the centre of a round dish in the form of a dome. Mask it with very stiff mayonnaise sauce, surround it with the pieces of claws, alternately with quarters of hard-boiled egg, garnish systematically according to taste with long strips of hllets of anchovy, capers, fancifully cut pieces of beetroot, chopped coral, stoned olives, slices of gherkins. Keep on the ice until required, and serve as cool as possible. Petites Dormes de Homard a la Creme. J hen lobster (small), i gill aspic jelly (p. 132), i gill cream, i gill tomato pulp, I tablespoonful mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), 2 sheets French gelatine, salt, pepper, a few sprigs of tarragon and red chillies for garnish. For pastry 2 oz. flour, i-|- oz. butter, 2 oz. grated cheese (parmesan or gruyere). i egg, cayenne. Line some very small square fluted patty or tartlet moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and decorate tastefully with tarragon- leaves and thin strips of chilli pods. Cut the meat of the lobster into very small pieces, dissolve the gelatine in the tomato pulp, then strain, and add to it the remainder of aspic jelly, whip the cream till stiff, and mingle with the above. Add to this the mayon- naise sauce and the lobster, season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill the little moulds with this mixture and place them on the ice to set. Meanwhile prepare a fairly stiff paste with the flour, grated cheese, butter, and egg, rnb the butter into the flonr, then add the cheese and a pinch of cayeime pepper. Moisten with half an egg well beaten np, mix into a paste, roll out to about one-eighth of an inch thick, cut out some squares a trifle larger than the moiflds, place the sciuares of paste on to a greased baking-tin, prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, and bake in a very moderate oven for about ten minutes. Take up, and when cool turn out the moulds, and place each cream on to one of the paste crusts. Dish up on a dish lined with a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve. Bordure de Homard a ITndienne. I hen lobster, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 6 boned anchovies, \ lemon, i tablespoon- ful Madeira, i dessertspoonful chutney, i pint aspic, i small truffle, 2 oz. best Patna rice, 1 pint cream, salt, pepper, paprika. Wash the rice, blanch it, drain, and cook in boiling water,ji6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. slightly salted, till tender, strain off the water, drain the rice, and let it cool. Split the lobster, remove the meat, cut it into small pieces, put it in a mortar with the anchovies, pound until smooth, add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, and mix thoroughly. Add the wine, chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, and about half a pint of aspic, season to taste, mix well, rub through a sieve, stir till nearly cold, and mix in a little whipped cream. Fill with this mixture a border mould previously masked with aspic and taste- fully decorated with truflie, white of egg, etc. Put the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in tepid water, and turn out on a cold round dish. Mix the rice with the remainder of cream (whipped), season to taste, and dress in the centre of the border, pile up high, and decorate it with strips of truffle and hard- boiled white of egg, sprinkle over a little paprika pepper, and serve. Bordure de Homard, froid {Cold Border of Lobster) 2 small lobsters, i small lettuce, i small endive, i gill aspic (p. 132), 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (p. 152), I pint cream, t- oz. sheet gelatine, I gill tomato sauce (p. 160), lobster coral and pistachios for decoration, krona pepper, seasoning. Split the lobsters, crack the claws, remove all the meat, reserve the best pieces for centre of dish, and chop the remainder rather finely. Pick, wash, and drain the lettuce and endive. Mask a plain border nio u1d with a thin layer of aspic, sprinkle the sides with chopped pis- tachio kernels and lobster coral. Soak the gelatine, d i s - solve it in the tomato sauce, then strain it. When cold, add the chopped lobster. Whip up the cream, stir in the mayonnaise and the dissolved, but almost cold, aspic jelly, mix this with the lobster mixture. Season this well with krona or paprika pepper, and a little salt if needed. Fill up the prepared border mould and set it on the ice. To serve, turn out the mould on a round dish. Season the salad with salt and pepper, and a little oil and vinegar, arrange this with the remainder of lobster meat in the centre of the shape. Serve cold.317 COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. Chaud-froid de Homard a la Diplomate. 2 fair-sized lobsters, pint cardinal sauce (p. 144), : pint aspic jelly (p. 13,2), 2 hard-boiled eggs, tarragon, and chervil, a few sprigs of each, i J- gill cooked green peas, -J- pint macedoine of vegetables, consisting of llageolets, French beans, tomatoes, and peas, i souffle, mayonnaise (p. 152), seasoning. Cut each lobster in two lengthways, break the claws, remove all the meat, reserve the coral for decoration, cut the best pieces of meat into thin slices. Mask about eight small chancl-froid moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate tastefully with thin strips of truffle and sprigs of chervil and tarragon leaves. Upon this place one or more slices of lobster. Chop up the remainder of lobster meat and heat up with enough cardinal sauce to produce a salpicon. Season to taste and incorporate nearly a gill of plain aspic or aspic cream. As soon as the mixture is cold fill the cutlet moulds with it, and place them on the ice to set. Next line a border mould with aspic, decorate its sides with slices of hard-boiled egg, truffle, and lobster coral. Mix the macedoine of vegetables with aspic and mayonnaise, season well, and fill the mould as it begins to set. Place this also on the ice. A column or bomb- shaped mould to fix in the centre of the border must also be lined with aspic and filled with green peas, lobster salpicon, mayonnaise, and aspic, and placed on the ice. Turn out the border on a round flat entree-dish, and fix the bomb of peas in the centre, around this arrange the lobster cutlets after being turned out of their moulds. Insert a neatly decorated silver skewer in the centre, and serve. Homard a la Gelee {Lobster in Aspic). I small hen lobster, 2 hard-boiled eggs, tarragon and chervil leaves, i pint aspic jelly (p. 132), parsley, chillies or pimientos, and green salad for garnish. Line a pretty border mould or several little dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate neatly with white and yolk of egg, sprigs of parsley, tarragon and chervil leaves, and fancifully cut leaves of red chilli or pimiento, sprinkle over some lobster coral, and when this is set put in another thin layer of asjfic jelly. Divide the lobster meat into neatly cut dice, and fill up the mould or moulds in alter- nate layers of lobster, aspic, salad, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Allow each layer to set, and finish with a layer of aspic. Place it on the ice or in a very cool place. When required for table unmould the border or darioles on to a cold silver-plated dish, fill the centre of the dish with a tasty salad, and serve at once. Mousse de Homard, frappee [Iced Lobster Mousse). I hen lob.ster, it gill double cream, i gill bechamel sauce (p. 142). 1 gill aspic jelly, 2 leaves French leaf gelatine, i gill tomato mayonnaise (p. 153), lobster coral, paprika pepper, and salt. Split the lobster, remove the meat from the shell, and chop it very finely. Stir it into the bechamel sauce, season to taste, heat up whilst stirring. Dissolve the gelatine in the aspic and stir into the above puree. Pour into a basin and let cool. Whisk the cream till stiff, mix it with the tomato mayonnaise, and work carefully into the mixture in the basin. Have ready a souffie dish-lining.3i8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fastened with a band of paper above the edge, ponr in tfie prepared mixture, as it begins to set, and pack in a tin surrounded with crushed ice and freezing-salt. A properly charged souffle ice-cave or charged ice-box is strongly recommended to be used for this })urpose. When slightly frozen {fvappe), remove from the ice-cave, sprinkle the top with a combination of fine lobster coral and paprika, then remove paper band, stand the lining in its souffle dish, and send to table at once. In cold weather the two leaves of gelatine may be left out. Fleurettes de Turbot a la Hollandaise. l lb. cooked turbot, free from skin and bone, j pint stiff mayonnaise fp. 152), i pint aspic jelly (p, 132), i truffle, i tcaspoonful chopped parsley and herbs, i teaspoonful anchovy sauce, .salt and pepper. Line some oval zephire or dariole moulds with aspic, decorate with strips of truffle to form the shape of a rosette. Mix the re- mainder of aspic with the mayonnaise, coat the moulds with a layer of this. Season the fish with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a sprig of tarragon, mix in anchovy sauce and two large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise. Three-parts fill the lined moulds with this, finish filling up with the remainder of mayonnaise. Put the moulds on the ice to set. Turn out, dress on a bed of salad or little blocks of aspic. Serve cold. Timbale de Turbot a la Russe. } lb. cooked turbot or any other white lish, 8 to 10 prawns, 2 oz. cooked rice, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i teaspoon ful anchovy paste, i dessert- spoonful chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, i tablespoonful rich brown sauce, salt and pepper to taste, pint aspic jelly, :j- oz. gelatine. Free the fish from skin and bones and flake it very finely, mix the anchovy essence, paste, and chutney with the lemon-juice and a tablespoonful of rich brown sauce, stir well and add a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and cayenne to flavour. Mix in three parts of the fish and half the rice, and strain in the gelatine, previously dissolved. Whisk up the aspic until it becomes of a frothy appearance, quickly line or mask the inside of a plain savarin mould. Mix the remainder of whipped aspic with the prepared fish, rice, etc., and turn into the lined mould as soon as the coating therein is sufficiently set. Place it on the ice for about an hour. Mix the remainder of rice and fish, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Turn out the mould on to a dish, put the rice and fish loosely in the centre, so as to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Trim the prawns and arrange them neatly round the top of the timbale. The base of the dish can be garnished with diamond- shaped pieces of aspic. Dariole de Saumon a la Moscovienne. About lb. of cooked salmon, 18 oysters, 3 large truffles, i hard-boiled egg, 1 oz. anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, -I- gill cream, about a pint of aspic jelly (p. 132). 6 filleted anchovies, a few slices of cucumber, a pinch of cayenne, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Flake the salmon. Line a medium-sized dariole mould with aspic jelly, ornament with a few slices of truffles, some nice flakesCOLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 319 of salmon, and a few cooked and bearded oysters, set the garnish well with a little aspic and put to cool. Pound the remainder of the lish in a mortar together with six cooked oysters, the hard- boiled egg, and the anchovy paste. Season with cayenne pejiper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a line sieve, add the tarragon vinegar, cream, about half a pint of aspic jelly, mix well, and fill the mould with this mixture, putting the anchovy iillets, a few slices of truffles, and a few bearded oysters between layers (jf farce in filling. Should the mixture not cpiite fill the mould, fill up with aspic jelly, and put it on the ice until required. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round dish, garnish round the sides with chopped aspic and a few fancifully cut slices of cucumber. Darne de Saumon a la Ravigote. About 2-|- Hi. middle cut of salmon, i onion, i caiTot, a small bunch of parsley, i gill French wine vinegar, ravigote butter (p. 176), aspic jelly, (p. 132), I oz. fresh butter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, \ pint cooked jieas, i truffle, and some French gherkins for garnish, peppercorns, .salt. Wipe the fish, salt it well, put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient hot water to cover, add the vinegar, peppercorns, sliced onion and carrot and parsley. Bring to boil slowly, and simmer until tender. Let the fish remain in the water until cold, then strain carefully, place it on a cloth, remove the skin and put on a small board. Mask the surface with a layer of ravigote butter, put it on the ice to set, then cover with a layer of half-set aspic jelly. Carefully place the fish on an oval dish, decorate the sides with ravigote butter and fresh butter, by means of a forcing-bag or paper cornet, ornament with green peas, fancifully cut slices of gherkins and truffles, and lobster coral. Fill the centre of the salmon with a little green salad or a macedoine of cooked vegetables. Cut the eggs into quarters and garnish the sides with them alternately with little heaps of green peas and chopped aspic jelly. Serve with a boat of tartare sauce (p. 160). Epigrammes de Saumon a la Diplomate. I to i f lb. salmon, i oz. butter, lemon-juice, lobster farce, pink chaud-froid sauce, seasoning, i small cucumber and a little mayonnaise, aspic, chopped truffles or pistachios for garnish, border for dressing. Skin and bone the salmon, cut it into slices about ;^--inch thick, flatten out evenly and stamp out into rounds or ovals to the size of the paper cases (these must be ver\^ shallow). Arrange the salmon in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, and put a tiny piece of butter on the surface of each, sprinkle with lemon-juice, cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. W’hen done, take up, place the slices carefully on a sieve ; mix the lobster farce with a little cream and aspic, just sufficient to bind, and spread one side of the salmon slices with it. Put them on a wire tray, and sauce over carefully with pink chaud-froid sauce. Besprinkle the edges with chopped truffle or pistachio and place a star of truffle in the centre of each. Shred finely the peeledTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 320 Dress the salmon slices on top of the border. Garnish round the base of the dish with triangular slices of set aspic. The dish is then ready to serve. Petits Pains de Crevettes {Shrimp Darioles). I- pint picked .shrimps, i gill cream, i gill brown stock, 2 eggs, i dessert- spoonful chutney, 3 Spanish olives, 2 French gherkins, cayenne, and salt. Put shrimps, chutney, gherkins, and olives (stoned) in a mortar, and pound until very hne ; then add the stock. Beat up the eggs and cream together. Rub shrimps, etc., through a fine sieve, mix with the eggs and cream, and season with a pinch of cayenne and salt. Have ready about eight small timbale or dariole-shaped moulds, butter them and hll with the mixture. Put the moulds in a saute- pan three-parts filled with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, steam for about twenty minutes; then turn out and let cool. Dish up, and serve with cold watercress sauce (sauce Ruisseau, p. 158), mixed with a little mayonnaise. Quenelles de Saumon a la Royale. lb. cooked salmon, \ pint mayonnaise stiffened with gill well-reduced aspic (p. 132), I gill plain aspic jelly for lining, tarragon and chervil leaves, I large truffle. Line eight small oval-fluted quenelle moulds with dissolved aspic jelly, decorate with herb leaves and truffle, when set coat with cucumber, mix with very little mayonnaise and whipped cream, salt and paprika. Have ready a border made of savoury semolina, coated with pink chaud-froid sauce, fill the centre with cucumber.COLD FISH AM) FISH FXTFEFS. X 3^1 I)repared mayonnaise. Flake the lish, season with mayonnai-r, and add the remainder of truffles, coarsely chopped, three-parts lill the QUENELLES DE SAUMON A LA ROYALE. monlds with the dressed salmon, and complete with mayonnaise and aspic. Let set on the ice. Turn out, dish up, garnish with small green salad and chopped aspic, and serve. Zephires de Crabes a la Royale {Zephives of Crab). Remove the flesh from a large crab, flake and put aside a portion for garnish. Pound the remainder in a mortar till quite smooth, then add a gill of bechamel sauce (p. 142). Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix rvell, and rub through a sieve. Incorporate half a gill of stiff aspic (p. 132), and fill the mixture into very small savarin moulds, which have been previously masked with aspic and decorated with fine strips of truffles, pimiento or red chilli. Place the little monlds on the ice for about two hours, turn them out on to small round dishes, fill the centre with the flaked crab, decorate with lobster coral or chopped pistachios, and serve with a sauce composed of mayonnaise (p. 152), whipped cream, a little French mustard, and a little grated horse-radish. The sauce must be kept on the ice until required for table. Petits SoufTles de Saumon a ITndienne. lb. cooked .salmon, i teaspoonful curry powder, tcaspoonful curry paste, 2 oz. butter. 2 small tomatoes. 2 small onions, r pint lish stock, 1V oz. anchovy paste, i iles.sertspoonful chutney, 1- teaspoonful aromatic seasoning, 1 oz. gelatine, -1- gill cream, cochineal, 10 to 12 small souffle cases. IMelt the butter in a small saute-pan, and fry the sliced onions until lightly browned. Add the currv powder and cook for a few seconds, 'then the sliced tomatoes, curry paste, anchovy paste, and seasoning, moisten with the fish stock and simmer for ten minutes. Now ]:)ut in the fish, finely minced, and the chutney, dissolve the gelatine with a little water, add it to the mixture, rub through a fine sieve, and put in a few drops of cochineal to give a pinkish tint. Whip up the cream, and mix with the puree when cool. Fasten a paper band about an inch broad round each souffle case, fill with the preparation, stand on a tin on the ice until re- quired, then remove the paper bands, put some previously preparedTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 322 anchovy butter in a paper cornet, ornament the tops to taste, dish up, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. A few drops of lemon-juice is an improvement, and a little dissolved aspic jelly will give additional stiffness to the mixture. Souvenirs de Saumon a la Gelee {Salmon Fillets in Savoury Aspic). i-J- lb. salmon (tail end), pint aspic, i oz. butter, i glass Chablis, seasoning, I gill pink chaud-froid sauce (p. 145), i lettuce, 2 truffles, i carrot, a bouquet garni. For paste: \ pint water, 2 oz. butter, and lb. flour. Skin the fish and cut it into slices, and then into heart-shaped pieces. Use the trimmings of fish for fish essence. Spread a saute- pan with butter, put in the carrot, cleaned and cut into thin slices, also the bouquet garni. Upon this range the slices of salmon, season with salt and pepper, add the wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes. When done take them up and place on a sieve or wire tray to cool. When cold mask each with chaud-froid sauce, well flavoured with fish essence and suitably coloured with tomato or pimiento pulp, place a star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre of each, and coat over the whole with a layer of aspic. Have ready an open-work border of paste baked to a golden brown, fixed on to a round dish, and provide a cone-shaped support of bread, dipped in batter and fried, for the centre of the dish, cover this with chopped green aspic. Lay each slice of salmon in a heart or kite-shaped case, having its bottom covered with a little shredded and seasoned salad. Range the cases round the support, points upwards, leaning them against the border, insert a garnish hatelet in the centre of the support. Fill the cavities between the cases with chopped green asparagus, and surround the edge of the dish with chopped green aspic jelly. Tranchettes de Saumon en Belle-Vue. lb. cooked salmon, i gill plain aspic jelly for lining, tarragon and chervil leaves, | pint mayonnaise, stiffened, |- gill well-reduced aspic (p. 132), I large truffle. Line six to eight small oblong or square moitlds (sandwich or Neptune shape) with dissolved aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle and leaves of tarragon and cher\’il, when set, coat with a layer of prepared mayonnaise. Flake the fish, season with mayonnaise, and add the remainder of truffles, coarsely chopped, three-parts fill the moulds with the dressed salmon, finish filling with some mayonnaise and aspic. Let the moulds remain on the ice till wanted, then turn out, dish up, garnish with green salad, and .serve. Truite Saumonee a la Norvegienne. A salmon trout, i oz. grated horse-radish, i gill aspic, ^ gill cream, i gill mayonnaise (p. 152), -J- cucumber, tarragon and chervil leaves, i small onion stuck with a clove, i small bouquet garni, a glass white wine, bechamel sauce (p. 142), border of cooked rice or puree of potatoes with peas, chillies, salt, peppercorns. Wash and clean the fish, half fill a fish-kettle with water, put in the wine, onion, bouquet garni, a small handful of salt, and twelve peppercorns, when warm, pnt in the fish on a tray, let it comeCOLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 323 to the boil and simmer very gently for about thirty minutes. Let the fish cool in the pan, carefully remove the skin, drain well, anrl dish on a bed of rice. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with the same cjiiantity of aspic, stir on ice until it begins to thicken, then mask the surface of the trout completely. Garnish tastefully with tarra- gon and chervil leaves, encumber rind and slices, and fancifully ent pieces of chilli. Coat with a thin layer of hali^-set aspic, and set on the ice to cool. Garnish the sides with coarsely chopped aspic jelly and parsley, and serve with the following sauce : Soak the horse-radish in the cream for several hours, rub through a fine sieve, put it into a basin, and stir in the remainder of mayonnaise sauce, also a tablespoonful of cold bechamel sauce, season with pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Pour into a sauce-boat and serve with the fish. Note.—If potato puree is used in place of rice for the border, mix the puree with an equal quantity of mashed green peas. As much as possible of the moisture in potatoes and peas must be extracted before the puree is shaped. Truite Saumonee en Chaud-froid a la Rothschild. Procure one large or two medium-sized salmon-trout, about 5 lb. in weight. Wash and dry well, and stuff with the following : 4 oz. of fresh breadernmbs, i tablespoonful of chopped onions, 3 yolks of eggs, L lb. of whiting forcemeat (p. 177), salt, pepper, I oz. of fresh butter, and a tablespoonfnl of coarsely chopped truffles. Sew up the opening, pnt in an oval braisiere or baking- dish well buttered, with a gill of stock and two glasses of white wine, cover with buttered paper, cook gently in the oven, basting it frequently, and put aside till cold. To the stock add a pint of Maclere sauce (p. 151), reduce well, mix with a gill of stiff aspic jelly, and strain. Carefully remove the skin off the fish, mask with the sauce when the latter is nearly set, ornament with truffle, aspic jelly, slices of cucumber, and lemon and parsley. Serve remainder of sauce, diluted with mayonnaise, with the fish. Filets de Truite a la Mayonnaise. I large or 2 small trout, i pint mayonnaise (p. 152), J pint aspic, a few French gherkins, frying-fat or clarified butter. Trim and wipe the fish, brush over with milk, dip in flour, and fry a golden colour in hot fat or clarified butter. Wlten cold, place the fish on a gridiron for a few seconds, take off the crust, and remove the fillets, cut them into neat pieces about an inch long. Line a border mould with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom witlr neatly-cut slices of gherkins, mix the mayonnaise sance with suffi- cient aspic jelly to make it set, put a layer of this sauce in the mould, arrange the pieces of fillets neatly. Fill up the mould with mayonnaise, and put on the ice to cool. When set immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and garnish the centre with dressed salad.324 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mayonnaise de Turbot a la Moderne. Remove the skin and bones from id lb. of cold boiled turbot, and flake the fish. Have ready some green salad, washed, picked, and cleaned, also some mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), made rather stiff and mixed with stiffly whipped cream. Sea- son the salad with a little oil and vine- gar, pepper and salt. Put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise in a round dish, upon this place layers of salad and fish, with alternate layers of mayonnaise, arrange the whole in dome shape, as shown in the illustration. Mask the whole carefully with mayonnaise, decorate the top portion with rings of cucumber or beetroot, and place halves of hard-boiled eggs round the edge of the dish. Very little dressing must be used for the salad, but the whole must be suitably seasoned, especially the mayonnaise. The dish .should be served as soon as dressed. Truite a la Malvoisie. I small iTout, I cucumber, i gill white wine, i bay-leaf, -i- carrot, 4 onion, salt, I gill aspic, i gill mayonnaise (p. 152), tarragon vinegar, parsley, gill cream. Clean and wipe the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with enough warm water to cover, add the wine, bay-leaf, carrot, onion, and salt to season the water. Cook till the fish is tender, then take it up carefully, and drain on a cloth. When cold, remove the skin and put the trout on a dish. By means of a vegetable-cutter, scoop out some small rounds of cucumiber—the latter must be thinly peeled beforehand—put the little rounds on a plate, and season with a few drops of vinegar and chopped parsley. Mix half the mayonnaise sauce with half the aspic, stir it on the ice until it begins to set, then mask the surface of the fish carefully with this. Finely chop enough cucumber to fill a tablespoonful. Whisk the cream, and mix the latter with the chopped cucumber, the remainder of aspic and mayonnaise, put all in a sauce-boat, and send to table with the fish. Surround the trout artistically with the rounds of cucumber. These may, if liked, be masked with a little aspic jelly. Garnish to taste, and serve. Truites a la Nansen. . 2 trout, weighing about i lb. each, i carrot, i onion, i lemon, 4 pint Chablis, i bouquet garni, ) pint consomme, ij- oz. French leaf gelatine, the white and the shell of 2 eggs, i gill aspic {p. 142), i pint tomato cream (p. 160), \ pint cold horse-radish sauce, half-frozen (p. 158), i sniall cucumber, a handful Brunoise garnishing.COLD FISH AND FISH ENTRIiES. 325 Procure the trout not clmwii, make a small iucisiou in each, draw carefully, wash and wipe the fish and put them in a deep saute- pan or oblong kettle. Add enough warm water to cover, the wine, carrot, onion (sliced), the bouquet garni, live or six slices of lemon, season to taste with salt, and bring slowly to the boil. Let the pan stand on one side of the lire for half an hour, then remove and let the fish get cold in the lic]uor or stock, drain well, and carefully remove the skin. Boil up the stock, strain, add the consomme and gelatine, and whisk the whites of eggs and shells and stir into the stock. Continue to whisk until it boils, then move on one side and let simmer very gently for a few minutes. Pass through a jelly-bag or wetted cloth, till clear. IMask the inside of an oblong plain mould (large enough to take the two trout) with aspic, decorate the edge with tiny dots of truffle and hard-boiled white ol egg, and fill up with the prepared fish aspic. Fill eight to ten large olive moulds with the tomato cream, and put them on the ice to set. Cook the Bmnoisc (finely-cut dice of carrot, lettuce, and turnip) in a good clear stock, strain, and mix with aspic. Mask the fish with this just before it commences to set. To serve, unmould the aspic shape on to a cold dish, place the trout on the top, garnish round the sides with small tomato shapes and thin slices of fancifully-cut cucumber, and send to table with a boat of half-frozen horse-radish sauce and a boat of semi-set aspic mixed with Brunoise. Tranches de Saumon a la Richelieu. Procure 2 or 3 thinly cut large slices of salmon, place them in a saute-pan with i pint of water, i small glass of claret, a small sliced onion, a slice of lemon, a little parsley, and a good pinch of salt ; cook gently till the fish is tender, and let it cool in the liquor. Prepare a light farce of cooked whiting, tomato pulp, cream, anchovy essence, and enough aspic to set it. Place the cookedTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 326 slices of salmon into a shallow pan or dish or tin, and spread over the farce ; let it set, then mask or coat it with a thin layer of red tomato aspic. When quite set, cut out neatly as many cutlet shapes as possible. Dish up round a pyramid of seasoned salad, and garnish tastefully with thinly cut slices of cucumber and pimiento or tomato. Darnes de Truites en Belle-Vue. I small salmon trout, 12 prawns, \ pint aspic mayonnaise (p. 142), 2 trul'tles, : pint cardinal sance (p. 144), 4 oz. rice, i pint stock, aspic jelly (p. 132), claret, seasoning. Cut the trout into slices, put^them in a large stew or saute-pan, cover with warm water, add salt and a little claret to flavour, cook very slowly for ten minutes, and stand the pan on the side of the stove. Take up the fish and let cool. Remove the skin carefully and coat each slice with aspic mayon- naise. Wash, and cook the rice in the stock. When done add a little aspic jelly and the combinecl sauces, mix well, and fill up a large timbale mould. Decorate a small dariole mould, previously masked with aspic and decorated with truffle. Fill up with the rice mixture. Decorate the trout slices with truffle as shown in the illustration. Mask each with aspic, and let set. Turn out the large mould on a round dish, place the dariole shape on top, and surround with prawns. Arrange the slices of trout round the timbale shape of rice, and serve. Coquilles de Filets de Soles a la Favorite. 1 medium-sized sole. I- oz. butter, t- small lobster, i hard-boiled egg, i small truffle, f pint aspic jelly, i lemon, gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), 2 tablespoonfuls white sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne to season, mush- room liquor or white wine. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, and bat them lightly with a wet chopping-knife or cutlet-bat. Remove the meat from the lobster and chop finely, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, season to taste, stir over the fire for a few moments, then add enough sauce to moisten, spread the mixture on a plate, and let cool. Cut each fillet of sole in half crossways, season with pepper and salt, spread over with lobster mixture, and fold fip. Place them on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with a few drops of lemon juice, moisten with a little white wine or mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Mean-COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. 32; while mask some cockle-shell moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, decorate each tastefully with strips of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Mi.\ about half a pint of cold liquid aspic with the mayon- naise sauce, line the decorated moulds with this, place the prej^arcd fillets into the moulds, hll up with mayonnaise aspic (p. 142) and put them on the ice to set. To ser\-e, dip the moulds into warm water and unmould quickly on to a dish, garnish with asjuc jelly, aird serve. Filets de Sole en Aspic {Fillets of Sole in Savoury Jelly). 2 soles, I lobster, i t oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill cream, gill stock, chopped parsley, 2 truffles, i quart aspic jelly (p. 132), lemon-juice. Skin the soles and remove the hllets, chop the lobster meat finely. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, w'hen cooked add the lobster, moisten with cream and stock, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemoir-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mix thoroughly, and put on a plate to cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll up, tie with string, place on a buttered baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Line a plain border mould with aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffles, pour over another layer of aspic, set the hllets wfflen cold, whole or cut in halves, hll up with aspic, and put on the ice to set. Serve with a nice salad in centre. Chaud-froid de Filets de Sole a la Capucine. I large sole, -1- small lobster, 8 prawns, i truffle, 4 gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), r teaspoonful anchovy essence, |- pint aspic (p. 132), a little white sauce, I gill cream, 2 sheets French gelatine, a few drops of liquid carmine, pepper and salt, i oz. butter, i lemon. Remove the meat from the lobster, chop hnely, pound in a mortar, add the anchovy essence and sufficient white sauce to form a smooth paste, and season to taste. Fillet the sole, flatten the hllets, and spread the above farce on one side, roll up or fold in tw'o, place them on a well-buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When done take up and set aside to cool. Mask the inside of a border or large dariole mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, deco- rate the sides artistically with picked prawns and fancifully cut slices of truffle, and a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Stand the mould on the ice, dissolve the gelatine in the remainder of aspic, stir when cooling into the mayonnaise, add the cream and a few drops of carmine to give a nice pink colour, season with a pinch of sugar, a little salt and pepper, and coat the inside of the mould. Cut the hllets into neat slices, and set these into the mould with alternate layers of sauce. Add a little more aspic to the sauce if needed, and hll up the mould with this. Allow it to stand on the ice until quite hrm. Immerse in tepid w-ater, turn out on a round entree dish, and serve. If a border mould is used, a little dressed salad should be served in the centre.328 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Soles en Fers a Cheval. I large or 2 small soles, 1- pint picked shrimirs, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, | pint bechamel sauce (p. 142), about a pint of aspic jelly (p. 132), -1- lemon, 2 truffles, pepper and salt, 1 oz. of butter, f gill white wine, 8 horseshoe-shape moulds. Remove the fillets from the soles, trim them nicely. Chop the shrimps finely, put them in a saucepan with half an ounce butter, when warm add the anchovy paste and parsley, moisten with a little bechamel sauce, put on a plate, and let cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll them up, tie with cotton, place them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon- juice, add the wine, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Set them on a baking-sheet and let them get quite cold. Put the bechamel sauce with about a gill of aspic in the saute-pan containing the fish liquor, stir, and reduce a little, and strain through a tammy. Trim the fillets neatly, and cut them in twos crossways. Mask the moulds with a coating of aspic jelly. Ornament the bottoms with small slices of truffles to represent the nails, etc. Cover with a layer of the prepared chaud-froid sauce, when nearly set put in each mould half a fillet, cover well with chaud-froid sauce, set this again, and fill up with more sauce, finishing with a thin coating of aspic. Put them on the ice till set. Turn out on a dish, place them in border shape, put a little salad in the centre, and garnish with fancifully cut pieces of aspic and parsley. Filets de Soles a la Jeanette. 2 small Dover soles, i oz. butter, Chablis, i gill white chaud-froid sauce (p. 144), f gill aspic (p. 132), seasoning, i gill cooked asparagus points, 1-gill cooked green peas, 3 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise cream (p. i 5 3), i truffle. Skin and fillet the soles, trim and season the fillets, and fold in the usual way. Place them in a buttered saute-pan with a tablespoonful of Chablis or other white wine, and the same quantity of mushroom liquor. Cover with a buttered paper, cook in the oven for about ten minutes, and drain well. To the essence left in the saute-pan add the chaud-froid sauce, strain, and with it mask the fillets when quite cold. Put a small fancifully cut slice of truffle on each fillet and coat them with a thin layer of aspic. Keep them on the ice till wanted. Mix the asparagus and peas, previously dressed, with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise cream. Add also the remains of aspic, ancl fill into a dome or other suitably shaped mould, set this on the ice, and unmould on a round dish. Dress the fillets of soles neatly round the shape. Garnish the latter with small salad, and serve. Filets de Sole a la Mayonnaise {Mayonnaise of Fillets of Sole). 2 medium-sized soles, i oz. butter, \ lemon, mushroom liquor, gill cream, I gill mayonnaise (p. 152), oz. leaf gelatine, i gill aspic. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, trim and fold them neatly. Place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with lemon-juice and mushroom liquor, add theCOLD FISH AND FISH ENTFFES. 329 remainder of the butter divided into small bits, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Take up and put them on a sieve to cool. Soak the gelatine in water, dissolve over the lire, and strain into the aspic. Let this cool a little, then stir in the mayonnaise, whip the cream, and add care- fully with the above. Coat the inside of a plain border mould with the prepared sauce, when set put in the fillets of soles, pour in a little more of the sauce, place on the ice to set, then hll up with the remainder of the sauce. When hrm turn out on a dish, and serve with a neatly dressed salad in the centre. Filets de Sole a la Norvegienne. 2 soles, I small lobster, i oz. butter, :J- gill of bechamel, a mirepoix (con- sisting of carrot, onion, bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, and bacon), gill of white wine, I tablespoonful of cognac, aspic jelly, 8 small even-sized tomatoes, 2 slices of o.x tongue. Skin the soles, and hllet them carefully. Twist each fillet round a buttered wooden stick. Place this folded side downwards in a saute-pan containing the butter (melted), and season with salt and pepper. Add the juice of a f lemon, and a little white wine, and poach them in the oven for about twelve minutes, then take up, remove the fillets carefully—these should be formed in rings—let them get cold. Cook the lobster meat in a saute-pan with the mirepoix, the remainder of wine, and cognac, then pound in a mortar. Add to it a little of the fish stock or essence, and the bechamel sauce, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix with half its volume of aspic jelly. Peel the tomatoes, scoop out the interior, and cut off a portion of the top of each. Place a ring- shaped hllet of sole in each, and hll up with the prepared lobster puree. Put a star-shaped slice of tongue on top of each, and mask with half-set aspic. Dish up, and decorate neatly with chopped aspic and lobster butter, or herb butter. Serve with Salade Norge.” Salade Norge.—Shred very hnely the white part of a head of celery, and put it in a bowl of water containing ice and lemon-juice, and drain when rec|uired. Shred also 18 shelled and peeled walnuts. Peel and cut into line strips half a cucumber. l\Iix all with sufficient mayonnaise cream (that is, mayonnaise sauce with whipped cream) to well season the materials, acid salt, pepper, and paprika to taste. Dish up and decorate with julienne strips of truffle. Bordure de Filets de Turbot a la Mont Blanc. Line an egg border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly (p. 132); when set decorate the side with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, and mask with a layer of chaud-froid mixture, prepared as follows : Pound in a mortar i hard-boiled egg, i dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, i teaspoonful each of tarragon and chervil leaves, 2 boned Gorgona anchovies, i oz. of fresh butter, and mix with half a gill of mayonnaise cream (p. 153). When well mixed add a dessert- spoonful of cream, season with pepper and salt, rub through a fine wire sieve, dilute with about half a gill of aspic jelly, and maskTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 330 the mould as directed. Pound half a pound of cooked whiting freed from bones, add an ounce of anchovy paste, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy or a tablespoonful of white sauce, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and a tablespoonful of cream, when smooth rub through a fine sieve, mix with the remainder of mixture left over from masking, season with “ Krona ” pepper and salt. Take the fillets of half a small turbot, remove the skin, cut each in foftr, fiatten a little with a cutlet-bat, fold in two, trim the sides, put them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, cook in a slow oven until tender. When done, let them cool and drain well. Line the mould again with the whiting puree, set the fillets of turbot in a row in the border, fill up with the remainder of the whiting puree, and put on the ice to set. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, place a suitable wax or “ suif ” figure in the centre, surround with a bed of salad, lettuce, endive, cucumber, etc. Filets de Soles a la Regence. 2 small soles, i small whiting, 3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, i anchovy, lilleted, 1 oz. marinaded tunny fish (thon marine), seasoning, \ lemon, 1- oz. butter, ^ gill cream, li gill aspic cream (p. 147), aspic jelly, and salad for garnishing. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, flatten them, and trim the edges. Put the bones in a stewpan, add white stock or water, a small onion and a clove, and boil to produce fish stock. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar with the hard-boiled egg-yolks, anchovy fillets, and the tunny fish, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Sprinkle the fillets of soles with lemon-juice, salt, paprika pepper, spread one side of each fillet with the prepared forcemeat, roll up, wrap separately in buttered foolscap paper, put them in a buttered saute-pan with enough fish stock to half cover them, and cook slowly in the oven for about twenty minutes. When done, take them up, let cool, and remove the paper covers. Coat with a layer of aspic cream, when one layer is set repeat the opera- tion so as to thoroughly mask them. Dish them in the form of a border. Whisk the cream, season it with a little pepper and salt, put it in a forcing-bag with a small rose pipe, and decorate the centre of each fillet with this. Garnish round the fillets with chopped aspic jelly, and fill the centre of the dish with some nice green salad. Filets de Soles en Zephires. I large sole, r small lobster, \ teaspoonful anchovy paste, ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. butter, i-J gill bechamel sauce (p. 142), | lemon, pint aspic jelly, gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), i large truffle, seasoning. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, flatten them carefully with a wetted cutlet-bat, and pare them neatly into six even-sized pieces as near as possible the shape of oval zephires (the shape of the moulds used). Remove all the meat from the lobster shell, chop it finely and put in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, the anchovy pastp, a few drops of onion-juice, and the parsley. Cook for a few331 COLD FISH AND FISH ENTREES. minutes, moisten with a tablespoonful of sauce, season to taste, and spread on a plate to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture on each fillet, place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven lor ten minutes. When done take up and let cool. Mask six small zephire moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the bottom of each with some fancifully cut slices of truffle. Mix the remainder of bechamel sauce with the mayon- naise, stir in half the aspic jelly, and strain ; coat the moulds with this, place one of the prepared fillets in each mould, and fill up with another layer of the white sauce, etc. Put the moulds on the ice till set. Unmould wfflen required for table, dish up neatly on a cold dish, garnish with some kind of dressed salad, thinly cut slices of lemon, and chopped aspic, and serve. Turban de Filets de Soles a la Montpellier. lo fillets of soles, i oz. Montpellier butter (p. 175). i gill aspic mayonnaise (p. 142), aspic jelly (p. 132), i teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, ^ lb. of cooked whiting, i tablespoonful white sauce, pepper and salt. 3 hard-boiled eggs, i glass of white wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of spinach puree. Line a border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, when set, decorate the sides with thin slices of hard-boiled eggs, mask the inside with a layer of aspic mayonnaise, mixed with Mont- pellier butter. Pound V lb. of cooked whit- ing freed from bones, add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy and a tablespoonful of white sauce, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. When smooth add a table- spoonful of spinach puree, rub through a sieve, mix with about -1- pint of liquid aspic mayonnaise, and season with cayenne pepper and salt. Fill the border mould with this and place on ice. Divide the fillets of a large sole into very small neat ffllets, flatten a little with a cutlet-bat, trim the sides, put them in a buttered saiite-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook in a slow oven until tender, ^^dfen done, take them out and put to cool. Mask the ffllets of sole with aspic mayonnaise mixed with a little spinach greening, and put on the ice to set. Immerse the mouldTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK, 332 in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, place a suitable wax or other hgure as standard in the centre, around which dress the hllets. Surmount with a hatelet and a truffle, and serve. Anguille en Aspic {Ed in Savoury Jelly). I eel about 2 lb. in weight, giU vinegar, ^ lemon, i small bunch herbs (bouquet garni), 2 slices of onion, i hard-boiled egg, i pint aspic jelly (p. 132), I raw egg, a few picked shrimps. Clean the eel, remove the head, take out the bones, sprinkle the inside of the hsh with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and tie up in a muslin-bag or thin cloth. Place it in a stewpan with the vinegar, a slice of lemon, herbs, and onion, add enough water to cover, and cook from thirty to forty-hve minutes. The bones.and head should be put in with the fish whilst cooking. Take out the fish, let it cool, remove the cloth, cut into convenient slices, and put on one side. Reduce and strain the liquor in which the fish was boiled, add to it the aspic, whisk lightly the white and shell of an egg, stir this in, let it come to the boil (stirring all the time), allow the stewpan to stand for ten minutes on the side of the stove, then strain through a jelly-bag or cloth. Mask the inside of a plain mould completely with the prepared jelly, decorate the bottom and sides neatly with slices of hard-boiled eggs and shrimps. When set put in the slices of eel, with a layer of jelly between the layers of hsh and eggs. Fill up the mould with more jelly. Allow the. contents of the mould to set. When quite hrm turn out on to a cold dish, garnish to taste, and send to table. In hlling the mould great care must be taken to allow each layer of hsh and jelly to set before a second layer is put in. Note.—Aspic of lobster, prawn or hllets of soles is prepared in exactly the same manner. Chaud-froid d’Huitres a la Montpellier. 12 large oysters, i dessertspoonful vinegar, i bay-leaf, i slice onion, i gill aspic jelly, i tablespoonful spinach puree, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil chopped finely, -1 gill cream, 3 sheets of gelatine, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, i gill bechamel (p. 142) or veloutee sauce (p. 161). Remove the beards from the oysters and put both with their liquor into a stewpan, add the vinegar, bay-leaf, and onion, and heat up slowly (the oysters must not boil). Take up and put the oysters on a sieve to drain and cool. Strain the liquor, dissolve in it the gelatine, previously soaked in water, add the spinach puree, heat up and stir in the sauce, chopped tarragon, and chervil. Mask twelve oyster-moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mix the remainder of aspic with the prepared sauce, and pass through a tammy cloth. When nearly cold, coat the oyster-moulds with a layer of this sauce, place an oyster in each, sprinkle over each a few drops of lemon-juice, and season with salt and white pepper. Fill the moulds with chaud-froid sauce, and put them on the ice to set. Have ready on a dish a border of rice masked with white or red chaud-froid sauce, unmould the oysters, and place them neatly on the prepared border. Fill the centre with green salad, and send the dish to the table.333 COLD FISH .IXD FISH ENTRFES. Cotelettes de Homard a la Diplomate {Cold Lobster Cidlcts).— (See Chaud-froid dc Homard a la Diplomate.) Darne de Cabillaud a la Sefton. About 2 111. middle cut of cod, i small carrot, i small onion, i small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), ^ gill Chablis or Sauterne rvinc, a handfid of spinach, J gill allcmandc sauce (p. 141) (using fish stock in place of meat stock), t teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, i f- gill aspic jelly, ] oz. leaf gelatine, } gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (p. 152), seasoning. Clean the fish, cover it with warm water, add the wine, carrot, onion, peeled and stuck with one clove, the bunch of herbs, and salt. Bring to the boil, simmer very gently until the fish is tender, drain, cool, and remove the skin. Meanwhile wash, cook, and drain the spinach well, and rnb through a sieve. Heat np the allemande sauce, add the vinegar, and about half the aspic jelly, dissolve the gelatine and strain it into the sauce, stir until cool, add enough spinach puree to give it a greenish tint, and lastly add half the cream and half fhe mayonnaise. Season with a little salt and pepper, stir the sauce over the ice until it begins to thicken, then coat the fish completely. When the sauce is set, mask with a [ayer of aspic jelly. Place the fish on a dish, and surround with prettily arranged small salad, chopped cucumber or diamonds of set aspic. Dilute the remainder of the sauce with the rest of fhe mayonnaise sauce and the cream, season to taste, and send it to table with the fish. N'ote.—Salmon is also eminently suitable, and highly recom- mended to be served in this style. TronQons de Truite a la Greque. Procure a good-sized salmon-trout, cut from the centre about one- inch thick slices, and poach them in “ court bouillon ” (i.e., water, claret, bouquet garni, carrot, and onion slices). Take up the slices carefully, and remove fhe skin, mask each with pink chaud-froid sauce and a thin layer of clear fish aspic, and fill the centre with a fish farce (cookecl). Range on a suitable shaped socle made of polenta or semolina, and place a ring of hard-boiled white of egg with a star of truftie in centre on each of the slices of trout. Garnish with small salad and chopped aspic, and serve.334 CHAPTER XVIII. GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. The main object of garnishing a dish is to make it effective, for in cooking it is quite as essential to please the eye as to charm the palate. All garnitures should be composed of edible materials, and be appropriate* to the dish. In serving fish or meat, entrees and releves, the garnishing invariably forms an important part of the dish. The objects of garnishing are, therefore, two-fold, one being to provide a dish with an appropriate or suit- able adjunct, and the other to increase its attractiveness. A dish may be prepared and cooked ever so carefully, and taste delicious, but if its appearance or its garnish and dressing are not pleasing and inviting, its success is very often marred. A dish is often not enjoyed because its appearance is against it. Everything connected with the garniture of any dish depends to a very large extent on the good taste and skill of the cook, and, in a lesser degree, on the materials a cook may have at command. Success depends upon an artistic combination, and over-decoration and over-loading should be carefully avoided. The principal garnishes used for both hot and cold dishes consist of vegetables, of which almost HATELET SKEWERS, evci'y kind may be adapted—either sliced, cut GARN°sHiNG shrcds or fancy shapes, buds or whole (small vegetables). Besides these, forcemeat made up into various forms, quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, financieres, lambs’ or calves’ sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, etc., are very often employed for garnishing hot meat dishes, while for fish dishes and releves, crayfish, prawns, oysters, cockles, scallops, fried smelts, etc., are also used for that purpose. In addition to this, sauces are likewise used in garnitures, and in some cases, such as lobster, oyster, crayfish or shrimp sauces, they form the only garnish of a dish. Simple garnishings, such as fried parsley, croutes and croutons, sippets, fresh parsley, small cress and cresses, cucumber, beetroot, eggs (hard-boiled, fried and, poached), olives, capers, gherkins, lemon, aspic, etc., may be mentioned en passant. These decorations, most of which are applicable to cold meats.GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. 335 etc., are matters which must be left entirely to the taste of the cook, as very few rules can be given for plain garnitures. 1( is hardly possible to giv^e here a minute description of every cha- racteristic garnish, but the following will convey a general idea of those most commonly in use : Oysters fried, stuffed tomatoes, stuffed olives, mushrooms, potato balls and croquettes, rice crocpiettes, made in tin moulds or done up into cork or ball shapes, chestnuts, cauliflower, purees, peas, macedoine, beans, ragouts. Fried potato straws or strips, thin chips or potato ribbons, also make a simple yet an effective garnish. All garni- tures shoiild be neatly and uniformly arranged, and the colour and design in harmony with the dish. The silver skewers or hatelets are mostly used for decorating cold dishes. As a rule, they consist of truffles, cocks’ combs, mush- rooms, hard-boiled white of egg, and some kinds of vegetables, both cooked and raw. In some cases these are fastened in an artistic manner on to skewers, or else set in various tints of aspic jelly, for which purpose special hatc'et moulds are employed. Hatelets are used as a rule for cold capons, fowls, pressed beef, tongues, hams, galantines, and other meat or fish dishes. The various garnitures enumerated in the following pages refer more especially to removes, releves (hsh or meat), but any of them can, unless otherwise stated, be easily adopted for entrees. The following is a representative description of the best known typical garnishings of various fish, meat, poultry, and game dishes. GARNITURES. Garniture a 1’Alexandra {for Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms cut into quarters and sliced truffles ; supreme sauce. — a I’AHemande Godiveau or German Quenelles.—Mashed potatoes, grated horse-radish, and a sharp white sauce. A VAllemande is also a surname given to dishes prepared after a typical German fashion and garnished accordingly. Served with boiled or l:>raised meats. — a I’Alliance.—Braised spring carrots, artichoke bottoms, and fried button onions, with demi-glacfe sauce. — a I’Alsacienne.—Braised choucroute, mashed peas, slices of braised ham and sausages. Served with removes only. Or, braised spring cabbage, fondante potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a I’Amiral {for Fish).—Mussels, shrimps, and crayfish ; matelote sauce. — a I’Ancienne,—Boiled beans (kidney), hard-boiled eggs, and braised cabbage-lettuces. Served with a rich cream sauce tiavoured wdth spring onions. — a I'Andalouse.—Groups of braised spring cabbages, lettuces, and fried sausages, cut into small j)ieces. Sauce demi-glace, for removes, etc. — a I’Anglaise.—This does not signify any particular garnish. It implies that a dish bearing such a surname is either plain, roast or boiled, or is prepared according to a typical English method.336 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Garniture a I’Arlesienne {for Alaat or PoiiUry).—Auberg^es, tomatoes, and onion rings; tomato and demi-glace sauce, bleudM. — a I’Athenienne.—Larded and braised meat, garnished with short pieces of tried and stuffed aubergines (egg-plants). Sauce Madere. — a la Bayard.—Cooked ox-tongue and artichoke bottoms cut into dice, mushrooms and truffles cut into slices ; the whole boiled for a few minutes in well-reduced Madere sauce. Small rounds of fried bread covered with a thin layer of foie-gras puree complete this garnish. — a la Bayonnaise.—Cooked asparagus points, button onions (boiled), gherkins and anchovy hllets, dressed in groups round braised or broiled meats. — a la Beaufort {for Fish).—Groups of colloped lobster, bearded oysters, mushroom heads, lobster coral, and suitable sauce to go with the fish. — en Belle-Vue {-for Cold Dishes).—Masked with white chaud-froid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles and red ox-tongue, tarragon- leaves and chopped aspic jelly. — a la Bigarade.—Finely shredded orange-peel, cooked in salmi sauce (essence of duck), flavoured with a glass of good port wine. Gener- ally served with ducks. — a la Bignon.—Small round or kidney potatoes, scooped out, raw, stuffed with sausage-meat, and baked in butter. — a la Bohemienne.—Small marble-shaped fried potatoes, stoned olives, mushroom heads, and button onions, dressed in groups round braised or roast meats. Sauce Poivrade. — a la Bontoux.—Very small macaroni timbales, tartlets, flavoured with fumet of game, tomato sauce, grated cheese, and slices of cooked meat, dressed with braised meats, and served with demi-glace sauce. Sometimes served with poultry as a remove. — a la Bordeaux.—Signifies the special sauce prepared with Bordeaux wine (claret) ; in its garnish marrow-fat is generally used, especially for fillets of beef. (Also known as Bordelaise.) — a la Bordelaise for tournedos, small steaks, and fillets. Parboiled slices of beef, marrow grilled and placed alternately with the cooked meat when it is dished up. For sauce, reduce finely chopped shallot in claret, add sufficient quantity of Espagnole or demi-glace. Season with cayenne, etc., and pour over the meat. — a la Boulangere {for Meat).—Kidney potatoes baked with fried onions ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Bouquetiere {for Meat or Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms grilled, asparagus tips, with groups of green peas, French beans, young carrots, turnips, and cauliflower buds ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Bourgeoise.—Young carrots and turnips cut into neat shapes, parboiled and braised, also button onions, braised and glazed, dressed in groups. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Bourgogne usually signifies that the sauce of a dish bearing such a name has French red wine as a basis, the garnish being generally small braised button onions.337 GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. Garniture a la Bourguignonne {for Meat or Poultry).—Braised and glazed button onions, mushroom heads, and rolled lean bacon, grilled brown ; Burgundy wine sauce. — a la Bourguignotte [for Fish).—Small quenelles, made with whiting forcemeat poached in fish stock. Sauce matelote. — a la Bretonne.—Stewed haricot beans (whole or puree), brown onion sauce, flavoured with mustard, horse-radish, and chopped parsley. Usually served with mutton. — a la Brillat Savarin (for Meat or Poultry).—Duchesse potato croustades, filled with tomato puree, sliced truffles, and sliced artichoke bottoms. — a la Brisse.—Border of mashed turnips, sauce demi-glace and tomato reduced. Served with fillets of beef or duck. — a la Bristol (for Meat).—Savoury rice croquettes or risotto timbales, flageolets and Parisian potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Bruxelloise (for boiled, or braised Aleat).—Brussels sprouts, and braised chicory or endive, olive-shaped boiled potatoes ; gravy. — a la Cambaceres.—Small, even-sized truffles, mushroom heads, olives (stoned), and Madere sauce. Usually served with fish removes. — a la Camerani (for Meat).—Braised sauerkraut (choucroute) and rolled bacon, grilled ; Madeira sauce, with chopped truffles. — a la Cancale (for Fish).—Oysters and shrimps, or prawns; Normande sauce. — a la Canova (for Meat or Poultry).—Slices of foie-gras (escalopes), cocks’ kernels, and truffles ; demi-glace. — a la Cardinal (for Fish).—Shrimps, prawns or lobster dice ; cardinal sauce. — a la Castelaine (for Fish).—Lobster meat, tails and claws, cut into slices, slices of truffles, bearded oysters, and white fish sauce. — a la Cavour.—Steamed or poached nouilles, thin round slices of carrots, cooked in rich white stock. Sauce veloutee, enriched with yolks of eggs, and extra quantity of fresh butter. — aux Cepes.—Cut 6 to 8 preserved cepes into shreds or quarters, place in a small stewpan with i large tablespoonful of sweet oil (do not use the oil out of the tin in which the cepes are preserved) ; add a crushed clove of garlic, season with salt and pepper, and fry a few minutes. — a la Chambord (for Fish).—Small quenelles made with forcemeat of fish, mushroom heads, bearded oysters, sliced truffles, cooked in brown fish sauce or Genoise. — a la Chartre.—Olive-shaped young carrots, parboiled and finished in demi-glace sauce, reduced in glaze and glazed. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Chartreuse.—Small timbales of mixed vegetables or spinach, dressed in groups with heaps of green peas, French beans, ends of cauliflower. Sauce Espagnole. If served cold the mixed vege- tables are set in timbales with aspic jelly, and the cooked green vegetables, slightly seasoned with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Fillets of game cut into dice, also preserved mush- rooms, cut likewise, cooked in salmi sauce or chasseur, well blended with port wine. In some cases the garnish is chopped very finely. YTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 338 Garniture a la Chateaubriand.—Fine large button mushrooms breaded and baked au gratin, or preserved mushroom heads, sauce Madere, with slices of truffles, or sauce Perigueux, for tournedos or fillets of beef. — a la Chesterfield {for Fish).—Small black truffles and crayfish tails, sauteed and finished in a little glaze, dressed in groups ; sauce Genoise. — a la Chevaliere.—Mushrooms, truffles, and cocks' combs. Salmi or demi-glace sauce. — a la Chipolata.—Young carrots and turnips, size and shape of olives^ parboiled and braised, boiled and glazed chestnuts, dice of boiled bacon, mushrooms, and slices of Italian sausages. — a la Chivry {for Fish).—Small oyster bouchees or patties, mussels tossed in white sauce, and small potato croquettes. Chivry sauce. — a la Clamart {for Meat or Poultry).—Artichoke bottoms filled with puree of green peas ; rich gravy. — a la Clamart.—Green peas (either whole or in puree) as a border or in centre ; usually served with laml) or poultr}^; sauce tomato and demi-glace blended. — a la Clermont {for Poultry).—Finely shredded slices of preserved mushrooms and ox-tongue. Sauce Veloutee, enriched with yolks of eggs and fresh butter or cream. — a la Clermont {for Meat).—Small stuffed onions, and slices of fried artichokes. Demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Cloud.—Chicken forcemeat quenelles, decorated with truffles, poached in stock, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels. Sauce Alle- mande. The meat with which the above is garnished is larded with strips of truffles, and braised. — a la Conti {for Poultry and Veal).—Fillets larded with strips of truffles, braised, garnished with slices of ox-tongue and gherkins. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Crapaudine {for Poultry).—Crumbed and grilled, stoned olives and truffles round the sides. Sauce demi-glace and tomato. — a la Cressy or Crecy usually denotes a garnish of carrots in the form of puree or otherwise. — a la Cumberland {for Pork or Game).—Small tartlet crusts filled with apple puree. Venison sauce, with port wine flavour. — a la Dartois {for Meat or Poultry).—Duchesse potato croustades filled with green peas. Mad&re sauce. — a la Dauphine.—This signifies a special mode ot cooking, i.e. braised, then coated with thick sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried. The garnish consists of small croquettes made of potato puree and choux paste. — a la Dieppoise {for Fish).—Mussels, mushrooms, crayfish or shrimps. Fish-flavoured veloutee sauce. ■— a la Don Juan {for Poultry).—Puff-paste cases or bouchees, filled with salpicon of chicken fillets, truffles, and mushrooms. Demi-glace sauce or gravy. — a la Doria {for Fish).—Olive shapes of cucumber, braised, and tossed in sour cream, also thin rounds of lemon. Cream sauce.GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. 339 Garniture a la Doria [for Meat or Poultry).—Braised cubes of cucumber and noisette potatoes. Rich gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Dubarry {for Meat).—Breaded and baked cauliflower (au gratin). White or lirovvn sauce. — a la Dubouzet.—Small kidney potatoes, the centres of which are ^ scooped out, stuffed with forcemeat, either fish or meat, according to the kind of dish it is served with. The potatoes are partly friecl and braised in the oven, arranged round a dish of meat, poultry or fish, or put in the centre. Sauce tomate. — a la Duchesse [for Meat).—With duchesse potatoes. Madere or demi- glace sauce. — a la Duclair.—This is characteristic with braised ducks, stuffed with a liver forcemeat seasoned with savoury herbs. Rounds of toasted or ftied bread, well buttered on one side, and covered with liver forcemeat, are dressed round the dish. The sauce consists of a demi-glace well reduced with claret and orange-juice. — a la Dufferin {for Fish).—Blanched scallops, cut into quarters, bearded oysters cooked in a rich Genoise sauce. Anchovy fillets are added to the garnish the last moment. Sauce Genoise. — a la Durance {for Fish).—Crayfish tails, and slices of lobster meat cut into convenient shapes. The sauce consists of Hollandaise, tinted with lobster butter. — a I’Ecarlate.—Cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into slices, dice, and sometimes chopped. Sauce tomate and Espagnole in equal quantities, well reduced. — a I’Ecossaise.—Small timbales lined with thin pancakes, made with savoury batter, filled with lamb forcemeat, baked in the oven, and dressed round the dish. Sauce demi-glace. ■— a I’Espagnole.—Small stripped tomatoes and baked stuffing, savoury meat, ham, mushrooms, carrots, etc., braised onions, and stoned olives. Sauce Espagnole, reduced with sherry and gravy. — a la Favorite {for Meat or Poultry).—Braised lettuce, artichoke liottoms, small potato timbales and mushroom heads. Rich gravy. — a la Fermiere {for Meat).—Young carrots braised, braised lettuce, and olive-shaped potatoes. Rich gravy. — a la Financiere.—Blanched sweetbread cut into small slices or dice- shaped pieces, mushroom heads, stoned olives, chicken forcemeat or Godiveau quenelles, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of truffles. Sauce Madere, reduced. — a la Flamande.—Alternate groups of carrots and turnips, scooped out, parboiled and braised, or boiled, cooked green and Erench beans, and braised savoy cabbage. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Flamande {for Meat).—Braised cabbage, young carrots, turnips, marble or egg-shaped potatoes, and small pork sausages, Demi- glace sauce. — a la Florentine {for Fish or Meat).—Spinach timbales or savoury semolina; pastry cassolettes or croquettes. Veloutee or demi- glace sauce-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 340 Garniture a la Frangaise.—This surname being applied to a large number of dishes, soups, fish, entrees, omelets, sweets, etc., no special garnish can be quoted as a reliable guide ; a la Frangaise must thus be accepted as signifying certain typical French modes of preparing rich dishes of exquisite flavour. — a la Gastronome {for Meat or Poultry).—Cepes tossed in butter, slices of truffles and fleurons. Rich gravy or Madere sauce. — a la Gauloise {for Poultry).—Truffles, mushrooms, cocks’ kernels, and slices of ham. Demi-glace with tomato sauce. — a la Genoise.—Cut some thin strips of nouille paste, rolled out very thinly, boil in salted water, drain and finish in butter, serve in centre of meat or poultry, garnish with dried truffles and mush- rooms. Sauce Madere. — a la St. Georges.—Prepare small quenelles of veal or Godiveau, poach, cook in demi-glace, dress in groups alternately with mushroom heads. — a la Georgienne.—Stewed rice, cooked in rich stock, and finished with a rich tomato puree, shaped into quenelles or small dumplings by means of a liaison of eggs ; bake the qi:enelles in a buttered saute- pan in a hot oven, and serve round the dish. Sauce tomate. — a la St. Germain.—This garniture is of the same character as a la Clamart (puree of green peas), either as a border or in the centre of a dish. Sauce according to dish, usually Madere or Allemande. — a la Gitana.—Spanish onions, boiled and braised, cut into slices, breaded and served over with tomato sauce well reduced, baked and dressed round or in the centre of the dish. Sauce tomate and Madere reduced and seasoned with sweet red Spanish pimientos. — a la Glengarry.—Small round black truffles and heads of preserved mushrooms, finished in a rich meat or chicken glaze, flavoured with game fumet. Sauce Chasseur. — a la Godard {Godiveau Quenelles).—Slices of cooked sweetbread, cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, and quarters of artichoke bottoms, finished separately in sauce champignon, with a glass of Marsala wine added. Dressed in alternate groups. — a la Gouff6.—Small round or oval-shaped bread croutons, toasted or fried, buttered and spread over with parboiled slices of beef marrow, glazed over with meat glaze. Sauce Espagnole. — a la Gourmet.—Artichoke bottoms (preserved), cut into quarters, dice shapes of mushrooms, truffles, and cooked ox-palate, boiled down with a glass of Marsala wine. Served mixed or in groups with Madere sauce. — a la Grecque {for Roast, Braised or Boiled Meats).—Quarters of auber- gines or egg-plants, parboiled in salted water, drained and fried in butter. Dressed in groups round the dish or in the centre. Sauce Madere and Bearnaise, carefully blended. — a la Gudewife.—Peeled and blanched onions, cooked in white stock till tender, chopped very finely, re-cooked with a little bechamel sauce, and flavoured with mango chutney. Served in the centre of the dish. Sauce demi-glace.garnishings and garnitures. 341 Garniture a la Henri IV.—Artichoke Irottoms and noisette potatoes. Bearnaise sauce. ■— a la Hongroise [for Meat).—Small cooked cauliflowers, breaded and baked (an gratin), and fondante rrotatoes ; veal gravy or cream sauce with ])aprika flavour. — a la St. Hubert.—Braised cabbage lettuces, shaped into balls, braised button onions, and demi-glace sauce. Served with roast or braised beef and mutton. a rimperiale ( for Meat or Poultry).—Mushroom beads, cocks’ combs and kidneys, truffles, cpienelles. Veloutee sauce. — a rindienne (for Fish or Poultry).—Savoury rice, with curry flavour. Curry sauce. — a rirlandaise.—This name is applied to dishes which contain potatoes in the form of puree or otherwise. For instance, Irish stew is known in France as Ragout a ITrlandaise. — a ritalienne.—This name is aj)plied to dishes prepared after certain typical Italian ways of cooking ; it generally implies that the dish is made of or garnished with macaroni, nonilles, ravioli, etc., flavoured with parmesan cheese, tomato or demi-glace sauce. (See Milanaise and IsMpohtaine Garnish.) — a ITvoire (for Poultry).—Chicken breasts cut in slices or scallops, and cocks’ combs. Supreme sauce. — a la Japonaise (for Meat or Poultry).—Plain tartlet crusts filled with Japanese crosnes blended with veloutee sauce, also potato croquettes. Rich gravy. — a la Jardiniere.—This signifies a collection of young vegetables cooked after being neatly cut or scooped into shapes, and grouped neatly round the respective dish ; it is adapted for soups, entrees, and removes — a la Joinville.—Truffles, coarsely chopped. Rich vefeutee sauce. Served with poultry and braised meats. — a la Joinville (for Fish).—Slices of truffles and mushrooms. Shrimp or lobster sauce. — a la Judic (for Meat).—Braised lettuces stuffed with savoury ham farce, also sliced truffles. Demi-glace. — a la Jules Verne (for Meat).—Stuffed kidney potatoes, baked, and braised turnips. Rich gravy. — a la Jussien (for Meat).—Braised cabbage lettuces and glazed button onions. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Lavaliere (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus puree. Bordelaise sauce. — a la Lorraine (for Ham or Pork).—Braised red cabbage or chou-croute and potato quenelles. Albert sauce. — a la Louis XV.—New potatoes, centre scooped out, filled with chicken forcemeat and chopped truffles, baked or braised, served with fillets of beef, tournedos, etc. Sauce MadD'e or tomate. — a la Lucullus (for Poultry).—Financiere, truffles, sweetbread slices, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels. Demi-glace sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 342 Garniture a la Lyonnaise.—Peeled onions, cut into round slices, dipped in milk and flour, fried and served in centre of dish. Brown sauce. — a la Macedoine.—This also applies to a mixture of vegetables, as for Jardiniere, and is used as garnish for soups and entrees. It is also adapted for fruit. A typical collection of fruit dressed as salad or in jelly. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—This name is applied to dishes garnished with parsley butter, or a white sauce containing finely chopped parsley. (See Sauces and Compound Butters.) — a la Marengo [for Chicken Smite).—Sliced truffles and mushrooms, eggs, fried whole (folded in) in sweet oil. Sauce tomate and Espagnole flavoured with wine. — a la Marechale (for Poultry).—Chicken quenelles, truffles, and cham- pignons. Supreme sauce. — a la Marie Louise (for Meat or Poultry).—Paste croustades filled with pea-shaped carrots, turnips, and green peas. Rich gravy. — a la Marigny (for Meat or Poultry).—Croutons or croustades filled with flageolets beans, also fondante potatoes. Gravy. — a la Mariniere (for Fish).—Mussels, bearded oysters, and crayfish. White fish sauce — a la Marseillaise (for Fish).—Halves of tomatoes tossed in butter, flavoured with garlic, and ribbon potatoes. Brown fish sauce. — a la Mascotte (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms, braised button onions^ and noisette potatoes. Rich gravy. — a la Medicis (for Meat).—Paste or bread croustaaes, with olive-shaped braised turnips. Tomato sauce. — a la Mentonnaise (for Meat).—Small vegetable marrows, stuffed with savoury farce meat, and braised ; also new kidney potatoes, and artichoke bottoms. Gravy. — a la Mignon (for Poultry or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with small green peas, chicken quenelles, and sliced truffles. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Milanaise (for Meat).—Macaroni, julienne strips of tongue, and mushrooms. Tomato sauce. — a la Mirelle (for Meat).—Plain tartlet crusts filled with saffron flavoured rice, potato croquettes, and tomatoes. Tomato sauce. — a la Mirabeau (for Meat).—Stoned olives, anchovy fillets, and artichoke bottoms. Demi-glace sauce, with tarragon or chervil flavour. — a la Moderne (for Meat).—Braised cabbage lettuces, potato croquettes, and chicken quenelles mixed with chopped tongue. Demi-glace sauce or gravy. — a la Montebello (for Poultry or Meat).—Tartlet crusts filled with shredded truffles and tongue. Bearnaise sauce, blended with tomato pulp. — a la Montpensier (for Meat).—Asparagus tips, sliced truffles, and arti- choke bottoms. Deiru-glace. — a la Nantua (for Fish).—Small puff-paste bouchees filled with salpicon of truffle and crayfish. Nantua sauce.GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. 343 Garniture a la Napolitaine.—Cooked macaroni, with tomato and cheese flavouring, dressed in the centre of dish, or in tinfliale shapes round the dish. Sauce tomate. — a la Nemours (for Meat).—Grilled cup mushrooms and duchesse potatoes. Gravy. — a la NlQoise (for Meat).—Grilled or sauteed tomatoes, French lieans, stoned olives, and Parisienne potatoes. Gravy, — a la Nivernaise (for Poultry or Meat).—Small braised carrots and button onions. Demi-glace. — a la Nivernaise.—Cooked carrots, turnips, and French beans, all cut into julienne-shaped strips, dressed in centre or round the dish, served with supreme sauce, with an extra liaison of yolks of eggs. — a la Normande (for Fish).—Oysters, shrimps, mussels, mushrooms, fried smelts, and fried and glazed croutons. Normande sauce. — a I’Orientale (for Poultry or Meat).—Savoury rice timbales and potato croquettes. Tomato sauce. — a la Palmeritaine.—Flalves or quarters of aubergines, stuffed with savoury meat stuffing or quenelle meat, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish, with potato puree in the centre. — a la Parisienne.—No special garnish can be quoted for dishes bearing this name ; excepting that in the case of flllets of beef, small ball- shaped potatoes fried or baked are serve'd. Dishes richly garnished and highly seasoned are thus specified. — a la Paysanne.—Braised celery, olive-shapes of carrots and turnips, also braised together with small kidney potatoes parboiled and fried in butter, dressed in alternate grouj)s. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Piemontaise.—Cooked macaroni finished in rich stock, butter, and cheese, well blended and reduced ; filled into small buttered timbale moulds, baked, and served round the dish. Sauce tomate. — a la Polonaise is generally a])plied to dishes coated with a thick sauce, sprinkled with brown butter, and finished in the oven. Beetroot introduced in some form, either as garnish or flavour in dishes, is also styled a la Polonaise. — a la Portugaise (for Meat).—Small tomatoes stuffed with duxelle puree, and chateau potatoes. Tomato sauce. — a la Princesse.—Asparagus points cooked in salted water and drained, finished in butter. Small croquettes of chicken and beef, to repre- sent two colours, a light and a dark ; dressed in groups round the dish. Sauce demi-glace or tomate. — a la Printaniere.—This, like Jardiniere or Macedoine, applies to a garnish of mixed vegetables ; but there must lie a collection and variety of spring or early-grown vegetables. — a la ProvenQale (for Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and fried aubergines, French beans, and new potatoes ranged in groups. Gravy. — a la Providence (for Poultry or Meat).—Sliced mushrooms and truffles, olives and slices of foie-gras. Madeira or demi-glace sauce. — a la Rachel (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with braised beef- marrow, mixed with chopped parsley. Bordelaise sauce.344 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Garniture a la Radziwyl (forFish).—Soft herring-roe, truffles, mushrooms, French gherkins, and crayfish quenelles. Genevoise sauce. — a la Reforme (for Meat).—Julienne strips of truffles, carrots, hard- boiled white of egg and tongue. Gravy or demi-glace. — a la Regence.—Chicken or Godiveau quenelles, sliced truffles and mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of cooked sweet- bread. Sauce Allemande, well reduced with white wine. If served with fish omit the sweetbread. — a la Renaissance (for Fish or Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with macedoine of vegetables, also small cauliflower buds coated with Hollandaise sauce. — a la Riche (for Meat).—Artichoke bottoms filled with green peas, and coated with choron sauce, and decorated with truffles. — a la Richelieu. —Tomatoes, small, ripe, and firm, centre scooped out, and filled with a mixture of shallots fried in butter, chopped ham, chopped truffles and mushrooms, and breadcrumbs, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish. Sauce Perigueux. — a la Richelieu (for Poultry or Meat).—Braised stuffed mushrooms, braised cabbage-lettuces, and artichoke bottoms filled with chicken puree, also chateau potatoes. Demi-glace. — a la Robson.—Chicken livers freed from gall, washed and dried ; fried in l)utter over a quick fire ; add a large truffle cut into dice, moisten with sauce Mad^re or demi-glace, and serve in the centre of the dish. — a la Romanoff (for Meat).—Stuffed and braised cubes of cucumbers, and potato croustades filled with salpicon of celeriac and mush- rooms. Demi-glace. — a la Rouennaise.—Young carrots and turnips cut into neat olive shapes and button onions sauted in butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar ; finished in the oven with just enough stock or demi-glace to keep from l)urning (shake frequently) ; dress in groups or serve in the centre of the dish. Sauce Madere. — a la Sarde (for Meat).—Rice croquettes flavoured with saffron and parmesan cheese, also stuffed tomatoes or cucumbers. Tomato sauce. — a la Savoisienne (for Meat).—Braised cucumbers, noisette potatoes, and artichoke bottoms. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Saxonne (for Poultry or Meat).—Stuffed tomatoes and braised cucumbers. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Semillante (for Fish).—Quenelles, carp’s roe, crayfishrand mush- rooms. Matelote sauce. — a la Sorel (for Meat).—Slices of foie-gras and croutes filled with puree of mushrooms. Madere sauce. — a la Soubise.—This name is usually applied to dishes which contain onions in sufficient quantity to make it the predominant flavour of a sauce or garnish. Soubise puree is made as follows ;— Cut some white onions into slices, boil in butter without browning, moisten with stock (white), cook till tender, rub througli a sieve, add a little b&hamel sauce ; reduce well, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, and grated nutmeg. Usually served with braised mutton or ducks. Sauce demi-glace.GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES. 34? Garniture a la Strasbourgeoise {for Pork or Ham).—Frankfort sausages, choucroute or pickled cabbage, and slices of foie-gras. Demi- glace sauce. — a la Talleyrand {for Meat).—Spaghetti or macaroni, with julienne strips of truffles aud slices of foie-gras. Perigueux sauce. — a la Tortue.—Boiled chicken-livers, slices of cooked sweetbread, truffles, and mushrooms all cut into dice shape and cooked for a few minutes in cherry wine ; dressed with stoned olives, mixed, or in groups. Sauce Tortue or demi-glace. — a la Trianon {for Poultry or Meat).—Puree of carrots, green peas, and ])otatoes. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Trouvillaise {for Fish).—Shrimps or prawns, and mussels. Lobster or shrimp sauce. — a la Valenciennes.—This garniture is very similar to “ IMilanaise.” Cut truffles, mushrooms, and smoked ox-tongue into hne shreds (julienne fashion). Add some cooked rice, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and plenty of grated cheese ; reduce with tomato sauce. — a la Windsor.—Green haricots (flageolet beans), sprigs of cauliflower, and young carrots, all parboiled and cooked separately in salted water or white stock ; dressed in alternate groups with capers. Usually served with boiled or braised mutton. COTELETTES DE HOMARD (LOBSTER CUTLETS). (For Recipe, see page 308.)'/ 346 CHAPTER XIX ENTREES. The meaning or application of the term “ entree ” has under- gone considerable changes and modification during the last fifteen years, not only in this country, but also on the continents of Europe and America. The correct meaning of the word is often confused with that of “ entremet ”—no doubt this is because the difference of these two names is not clearly understood by many. One fre- quently finds a remove, releve, or even a hors-d’oeuvre (side dish) served under the heading of “ entree,” which, according to the gastronomic law, is incorrect. There are certain laws, culinary and gastronomic rules, most of which are as yet unwritten, and I may say unexplained, but nevertheless well understood by first-rate chefs and epicures, which govern the culinary operations, the preparation, dressing, and serving those dishes known as “ entrees.” It is not too much to say that the success of a dinner depends largely on the entree or entrees. It is a matter of the greatest importance, which has been thought out with the greatest care, not only by clever chefs, but by gourmets and epicures alike, whereby the most refined artistic tastes are blended with the utmost effect. However, there are still many who bestow but little thought on this important branch of the profession, and forget that in pre- paring an entree, like almost everything else in cookery, it is both necessary to please eye and palate. This negligence frequently causes an otherwise well-cooked dish to be viewed with disfavour. Every entree should be sent to table as perfect and as correct in garnish or decoration as it can possibly be. If this is done, there can be little doubt as to its success, whether it be a simple or a more elaborate entree. Dishes following the fish, or preceding the remove when such is served, are called entrees; which, being translated into English, means “ entrances.” Hence, the dishes served under this heading are considered by the epicure as the first of the essential dishes of the dinner, and rightly so, because there may be dinners without hors d’oeuvre, and even without soup, or without a remove or releve, but there can be no dinner proper without an entree course. Entrees are defined as ‘‘ dressed dishes ” or ” made dishes.” A dish bearing the name ” entree ” is always composed of more than one ingredient, and should be distinguished from meat served only with a garnish. When two entrees are chosen in a dinner, the first should be made the lighter of the two. All entrees (made dishes) should be made in fancy style, so as to avoid carving.347 ENTREES. Entrees are never carved or served from the sideboard. Dishes known as hsh entrees, excepting in the case of cold dishes, are allowable as entrees dnring Lent. Compound or long process sauces, foundation sauces, and their offsprings, play a most important part in entrees, as well as in their relation to the dishes which precede and follow them. Removes or Releves.—Large entrees are frecpiently substituted for a remove or releve, so called because at one time it replaced the soup-tureen, being served immediately after the soup. The terms, however, are not interchangeable, for a hsh or a joint of meat may be served as a remove, and we should never think of calling either of these an entree, for entree is the nanie which we associate with made dishes. The present French style is to serve the remove immediately after the hsh, which forms the beginning of the hrst course (the term hrst and second course or service is rarely ever used now, for it fulhls no purpose), while in England the remove or joint is served at the end of the hrst course—i.c. immediately after the entrees. Classification of Entrees.—Entrees are divided into two classes, hot and cold. The hot dishes may be sub-divided again into two classes, the light and the solid entrees, or those which are served with a sauce, and those served without a sauce. There are a large number of entrees composed of meat sauted, fried, grilled, broiled or braised, dressed simply with a good sauce or, if applicable, with a dainty vegetable garnish. This garnish and sauce may also be applied to removes ; these, however, differ from entrees, inasmuch as in the former case the pieces are dressed small, while in the latter they usually consist of a boned joint, which is served whole. On the other hand, there are dishes of a more elaborate kind, both in preparation and garnish. All these come under the heading of hot entrees, solid, otherwise known as the small hot meats garnished, such as cutlets, fillets, grenadins, escallops, tournedos, large pates, sweetbreads, fricandeaux, ragouts, fricassees, boudins, cpienelles, salmis, compotes, etc. EXTREE MOULDS. FANCY TIMBALE MOULDS. TOMATO MOULD. ARTICHOKE MOULD. Light entrees consist of various kinds of dainty morsels, such as vol-au-vents, soufflfe (small), meat, poultry or game fritters, small pates, bouchees, boudins, rissoles, croquettes, cromeskies, frican- dines, beignets, timbales, darioles, etc.^48 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cold Entrees.—This is known as the cold service. It is the most elegant and most artistic branch of cookery in general, espe- cially so when large dishes for special occasions are to be prepared, for ball suppers, banquets, wedding breakfasts, grand buffets, etc., where the moulding or ornaments in wax, fat, rice, etc., is required. Flowers, figures, etc., are then introduced in a great variety. A great deal of skill and study are required for this branch of the art. Any cook of ordinary intelligence may, however, by careful study, become an expert in this branch, provided he or she will give it special and sole attention for a time, so as to develop fifily some artistic taste and ideas. Various kinds of sauces known as chaud-froid sauces, and aspic jelly, aspic creams, etc., are brought largely into use for cold entrees. Such preparations must be prepared with great care, they must be made tasty, and on no account too stiff. The aspic especially should be agreeable to the palate, limpid, and above all transparent and clear, for if there be any defect in this, then the general effect is marred. In any cold entree, the special aim, next to the proper cooking of the articles, must be to produce an effective appearance. This can only be done by introducing tastefully and pleasingly arranged designs in the decorations. When croutons of rice, bread, etc., are used, they should be cut with precision and taste. Hatelets.—These are, as a rule, silver skewers, ornamented with fancifully-cut vegetables and aspic garnishing, and come largely into use with dishes of this kind. These add greatly to the effective appearance of any dish. The number of other dishes, less elaborate than those just named, is also very large. These, although smaller, require just as much care and attention, because, in a sense, they are equally important. The preparation of cold dishes should be done beforehand, and plenty of time allowed for them to set properly. This kind of work should never be hurried, nor left over to be finished at the last moment. The entrees and their garniture must on no account clash with either the fish, remove, or roast, nor must the sauces served with either be the same or similar in appearance. When three kinds of entrees are served, the light entree must be served first and the cold last. A hot entree is generally served before a cold dish. Again, an entree composed of small birds must go before one pre- pared from a large bird or large meat. The sauce for such dishes (hot) is always served in the dish, and not separately, unless the dish will not hold sufficient sauce to go round the table, then some of the sauce may be handed round in a sauce-boat. In the case of light entrees, with some exceptions, the sauce is handed round separately as a rule ; a little sauce is often poured over the dish, just to sauce it, or, as it is termed in culinary French, to nape the service of the entree.349 CHAPTER XX. LIGHT ENTREES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGERES. (For Cold Entrees, see Chapter XXV.) Under this title a selection of recipes are given of typical light entrees, but there are many dishes in the other sections of entrees that can be included under this heading—notably Quenelles, Boudins, Mousses, Timbales, Beignets, Souffles, and other light dishes. When two entrees are served, the light dish should take the lead. Beignets de Ris de Veau en caisses [Sweetbread Fritters in Cases). Cut a cooked sweetbread (boiled or braised) into convenient sized slices, season them, egg and crumb them, or dip each in a light frying batter (p. 135). Fry them in clarihed butter or dripping to a golden colour, drain, and place them into oblong ramakin cases, garnish with fried parsley (p. 122). Dish up and serve with tomato sauce (p. 160), Beignets de Volaille [Chicken Fritters). Cut a boiled or roasted chicken into small joints, remove the skin and bones, place the pieces in a deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, chopped parsley, a little oil and vinegar, and let them stand for an hour or longer. Drain the pieces, coat them with frying batter (p. 135), and fry in hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a suitable sauce. Beignets de Cervelle de Veau [Calf’s Brain Fritters). Boiled calf’s brain, drained, divided in pieces, and dipped in frying batter, then fried in deep, hot fat. Drain, dish up, and serve. Beignets de Pied de Veau [Calf's Foot Fritters). Cooked calf’s foot cut in strips, marinaded in oil, vinegar, parsley, etc., coated with batter, and fried in deep, hot fat. Drain, dish up, and serve. Petites Bombes a la Milanaise. I lb. veal, rabbit, chicken or game, 2 oz. paiiade, 3 yolks and i white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls white or brown sauce, i oz. butter, i tablespoonful sherry or Madeira wine, i dessertspoonful of chopped truffle peelings or truffle trimmings, 2 oz. cooked macaroni, seasoning, Perigord or tomato sauce. Cut up the meat, which must be freed from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade, eggs, and sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix in d oz. of butter, and pass through a line wire sieve. Butter some little bombe or timbale moulds, line them all over with tips of350 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cooked macaroni about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stand the moulds on the ice to set, then hll them with the above prepared farce. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about half an hour. Take up, unmould, and arrange the bombes on a hot entree dish. Pour some hot tomato or Perigord sauce over, and serve. BOUCHEES OR PETITES BOUCHEES. Bouchees are, unless otherwise stated, small puff-paste cases hlled with certain savoury preparations called salpicons (p. 124) of either fish, meat, poultry or game. Bouchees a I’Astrachan, These are very small puff-paste patties hlled with coarse-grained Russian caviare seasoned with echalote sauce. Petites Bouchees, Bardalouse. Line 8 to 10 bouche moulds with short crust, rough puff or cassolette paste, hll them with dried peas, and bake them. Remove the peas and hll the baked crusts with a salpicon of sweetbread, chicken hllets, mushrooms, and truffles, moistened with supreme or Allemande sauce. Decorate the top with green-pea puree, mixed with a yolk of egg, and seasoned ; use a forcer for this. Place the crusts on a baking-sheet and bake for ten minutes in a hot oven. Dish up, and serve hot. Petites Bouchees a la Reine [Chicken Patties). About I lb. of feuilletage paste, \ cooked chicken, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 6 mushrooms, 2 truffles, i gill bechamel or Allemande sauce, gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, let it rest in a cool place for ten minutes, then stamp out, by means of a if-inch huted paste-cutter, eight to ten rounds, lay them about half an inch apart on a wetted baking-sheet, and brush the surface with beaten egg. Dip a smaller round plain cutter into hot water, mark the surface of each (this will form the lids), and brush the top with egg-yolk. Bake in a moderately sharp oven for fifteen to eighteen minutes. Remove lids, and scoop out a portion of the inside whilst hot. Have ready a salpicon made by mixing the chicken, ham, mushrooms, and truffles all cut into small dice. Put all in a stewpan with the sauce, when thoroughly hot add the cream, and lastly stir in the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Keep over, the fire to bind the mixture. Fill up the cases, put on the lids, and serve, Bouchees a la Montglas. These are very similar to the above ; the puff-paste patty cases are filled with chicken fillets and sweetbread, mushrooms and truffles cut in'dice, moistened with white sauce and heated up before filling.LIGHT ENTREES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGERES. 35' Bouchees a la Princesse. Fill puff-paste cases with a salpicon of minced ortolan lillets and truffles moistened with browm sauce. Bouchees a la Toulouse. Fill pnff-paste cases with cooked veal and chicken hllets, cocks’ combs, mushrooms and truffles cut in dice, moistened and heated up in white sauce. Bouchees a la Suedoise. Prepare and bake some small bouchees made from puff-paste (p. 133), fill them with ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails, and broiled bacon, all cut into small slices and heated up in veloutee sauce, sprinkle the top of bouchees with grated cheese, bread- crumbs and lobster butter, and brown them in the oven before serving. Bouchees a la Moderne. lb. of mashed potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, i gill ol cream, 2 yolks of eggs, i truffle, 6 mushrooms, 6 to 8 oz. cooked chicken, veal, pheasant or other game, i gill of veloutee sauce, i gill of bechamel sauce, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, i oz. panurette. Remove skin and sinews from the meat, cut it small or mince coarsely, put it into a small stewpan, with the mushrooms and the truffle finely chopped, and sufficient veloutee sauce to moisten, add a small piece of butter, and stir over the hre until hot. This forms the salpicon. Rub some cooked potatoes through a hue sieve, mix them with a piece of butter and a little cream, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, let this puree ^et thoroughly hot, add the yolk of an egg, and w'ork it w^ll. Butter 10 to 12 small bouche moulds, sprinkle with panurette and line them with potato puree, hll the moulds with the prepared salpicon, cover the top of each with the potato puree, smooth over with the blade of a knife, and bake in a moderate oven for about hfteen minutes. Heat up the bechamel sauce, add the remainder of veloutee sauce and the yolk of egg, and stir W'Cll over the hre, wfflen hot, add a little cream, and w'ork in bit by bit the remaining butter. Turn out the bouche moulds neatly on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. BOUDINS, COQUILLES, CROQUETTES, ETC. These are, as a rule, small oblong, sausage, round or border shapes of souffle-like mixtures (farce) of hsh, meat, poultry or game, steamed or poached, aud served with a suitable sauce, Boudins de Volatile a la Reine.—Small sausage shapes oi chicken farce, poached, and served with supreme sauce. Boudins de Volaille Blanc.—White chicken boudins, centre filled with chicken saljiicon, and served with white sauce. Boudins de Gibier a la Perigueux.—Small oblong or oval shapes of game farce mixed with chopped truffle, steamed, and served with a rich truffle sauce.352 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Boudins de Lievre a la Richelieu.—Boudins of hare farce with truffle salpicon in centre, steamed in oven, and served with rich truffle sauce. Boudins de Sanglier.—Wild boar farce made into boudins, poached, and served with bigarade sauce. Boudins de Veau.—Veal boudins, poached or steamed in the oven, served with cream or veloutee sauce. Boudins de Volaille a la Richelieu. Prepare a chicken forcemeat, line with it 8 to lo well- buttered boudin or quenelle moulds. Fill the centre with a salpicon made as follows : Cut a cooked sweetbread into dice, mix with it six champignons, one large truffle, and a slice of tongue, all cut into small dice, moisten with a little supreme sauce, and season to taste. Cover each mould with a layer of forcemeat, so as to completely cover the salpicon. Poach the moulds in the oven. (Place them in a saute-pan with a little water, covered with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes.) When done, unmould, let cool, egg and crumb carefully, and fry in hot fat till a nice golden colour. Take them up, drain, and dish on a folded serviette or dish-paper. Serve with a hot ravigote sauce. Petites Caisses. Caisses are small round or oval-shaped pastry—crusts, paper, china or silver cases. These are filled with certain savoury mixtures, the following being some examples : Petites caisses de Ris de Veau.—Braised sweetbread in cases. Petites caisses de Champignons farcis.—Stuffed mushrooms in cases. Petites caisses de Foie-gras aux truffes.—Goose-liver truffled in cases. Petites caisses de Moeile.—Braised beef-marrow served in cases. Petits Pates aux Huitres.—Small oyster patties. Petits Pates aux Alouettes.—Small lark patties. Petits Pates aux Cailles.—Small quail patties. Petits Pates a la Joinville.—Small patties filled with minced lobster, chicken fillets, and truffle, blended with Joinville sauce. Cannelons. Cannelons are small rolls of puff-paste filled with a savoury mince of game, poultry, meats, etc. They are either egged and baked in the oven, or egged and rolled in crushed vermicelli or breadcrumbs, and fried in clarified butter or dripping. The follow- ing are a few of the most popular ways of serving cannelons : Cannelons aux Saucisses.—Cannelons filled with fine sausage meat. Cannelons de Volaille.—Cannelons filled with chicken farce or puree. Cannelons aux Truffes.—Cannelons filled with truffle puree. Cannelons a la Puree de Gibier.—Cannelons filled with game pur&. Cannelons aux Champignons.—Cannelons filled with mushroom puree.353 LIGHT ENTRI^ES (HOT).~ENTREES LEGE RES. Canolettes a la Montglas. \ lb. puff-paste trimming, 2 lambs’ sweetlireads, i small piece of celery, 1 gill white sauce—Allemande or bechamel, 2 mushrooms, 1 truflle, i egg, breadcrumbs, fried parsley, pepper and salt. Roll out the paste, cut it into strips, butter the exterior of some cornet tins, roll the strips of paste round each tin, so that the strip of paste overlaps half the other at each turn, keep all of even size. Egg over the surface, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and bake on a greased baking-tin in a hot oven. Blanch and cook the sweetbread and celery, cut into small dice, warm up in the sauce, season to taste, add the mushrooms and truifles, also cut in dice. Remove the paste-crust from the tins as soon as baked, hll them with the above mixture, place a star of truftfe in the centre of each, dish them neatly on a dish with folded napkin, pointed ends inwards, put a handful of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Crepinettes. These are small square or oblong-shaped savoury meat mixtures, wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarihed butter or dripping or grilled without being crumbed. Crepinettes de Gibier {Game Crepinettes). A roast partridge or other game, i oz. of chopped ham or tongue, i truffle, 2 eggs, about a gill and a half of veloutee sauce, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, pig’s caul or veal udder, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, tomato sauce. Bone the bird, remove the skin and gristle, and chop the meat hnely, likewise the truffle. Put these together with the ham in a saute-pan, add the sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cook for ten minutes, stir frequently, bind with the yolk of one egg, and spread on a dish to cool. Divide into six or eight parts, shape oblong, wrap each in a piece of veal udder or pig’s caul. Dip in beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, when set, egg and crumb again, shape neatly, and fry in hot fat. Drain on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. Crepinettes de Ris de Veau en Caisses {Hot or Cold Entrees). 6 oz. cooked sweetbread, 6 mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 2 oz. butter, I small shallot, i dessertspoonful flour, i egg, a little stock, lemon- juice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, pig’s caul 8 to 10 oval paper souffle cases. Chop finely the ham or tongue and the mushrooms. Cut the sweetbread into very small dice or chop coarsely. i\Ielt T oz. of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the shallot finely chopped, fry a little, stir in the flour, and cook whilst stirring for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of rich stock, let it come to the boil, then add the chopped meat, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, bind with the yolk of one egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Heat thoroughly, and spread on a plate to cool. Make up into even- sized oval shapes a little smaller than the paper cases, wrap each carefully in a thin square of pig’s caul, fasten the ends with a little white of egg, and let them stand for a few minutes to set. Butter zTHE NE]V CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 354 or oil the inside of the paper cases. Fry sufficient i)arsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of butter in a sautffi pan, put in the croquettes, and fry a golden colour over a moderate hre or in the oven. When done take up, drain well on paper, put on a baking-tin, brush the surface of each with liquid meat glaze, pass in the oven for another minute or two, and place them on the beds of fried parsley in the paper cases. Dish up when cold, and serve with a boat of tomato mayonnaise. These crocpiettes are equally nice served hot, in which case a hot sauce, either piquante or tomato sauce, should be handed round at the time of serving. Crepinettes de Volaille truffees Finely minced raw chicken mixed with chopped truffles, shaped into crepinettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. Andouillettes are made similarly to crepinettes, but are shaped oval or round, and, in place of being crumbed and fried, are braised in butter and usi:ally served in paper cases. Andouillettes a la Romaine. Minced chicken, mushroom, truffle, grated cheese, and meat glaze made into salpicon, shaped oval, and wrapped in caul and braised, served with truffle sauce, Coquilles—Shells. Coquiiies are small shells, filled with coarsely minced meats, etc., baked in the oven to brown the surface. Coquilles de Volaille truft’ee.—Chicken fillets minced and mixed with truffle and white sauce, baked in shells. Coquilles de Champignons.—Mushroom and white sauce baked in shells. Coquilles de Cervelle de Veau.—Calfs brain, blanched, cut small, and blended with white sauce, then filled and baked in shells.' Coquilles de Trufles.—Sliced truffle with brown sauce baked in shells. Coquilles de Perdreau.—Partridge fillets baked in shells. Coquilles de Poulet a la Cardinal.—Minced chicken and crayfish tails blended with cardinal sauce, filled and baked in shells. Coquilles de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread stew baked in shells. Croustades or Cassolettes. Croustades are oval or round shapes of baked or fried paste, bread, rice or potato crusts, which are filled with minced or deli- cately-made ragouts of shell-fish, meat or game. CROUSTADE, CASSOLETTE, AND SOUFFLE CASES. hade of thin paste crust, used for light entrees, vegetable PUREES, SAVOURY and sweet SOUFFLES.LIGHT ENTREES {HOT).-—ENTREES LEGERES. 355 Cassolettes a la Princesse Alice. Prepare a savoury choux-paste, mix it with half its ([uantity of linely-mashed potatoes, and line some buttered cassolettes or bonche moulds with it. Prepare a salpicon of linely-minced cooked chicken, truffles, and velontee sauce, add enough egg-yolks to bind the mi.x- tnre. Fill the cassolettes with this. Put them on a baking-sheet and bake for twenty minutes in a moderately heated (n^en. Turn out on a hot dish ; pour some hot Perigord sauce round the base of the dish and serve hot. Cassolettes de Gibier [Cassolettes of Game). Roll out some roitgh puff or short-crust paste rather thinly, stamp out some rounds the size of the moulds used and line with them 8 to lo bonche moulds. Fill them with dried peas or rice, and bake them in a hot oven a light brown colour. Re- move the peas or rice, and place the cassolette paste crusts on a sieve. Prepare the fol- lowing mixture (salpicon) : Chop finely 8 oz. of cooked game, free from skin and bones, 6 mushrooms, and 4 oz. of cooked ham. Fry in 2 oz. of butter, 2 chopped shallots, and put in a dessertspoonful of flour, stir a little, and add the chopped meat, season to taste, and moisten with i gill of well-reduced truffle sauce. Cook for a few minutes and fill the cassolettes. Decorate the top of each with potato puree enriched with cream and egg-yolks. I3ake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes ; dish up, and serve hot. Cassolettes a la Medicis. Roll out some nouille or short-crust paste and line with it some small timbale moulds, prick the sides and bottoms of the paste, fill them with raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven. When a nice colour, take them up and remove the rice. Prepare a salpicon mix- ture of sweet-356 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. bread, etc., as directed on p. 124. Fill the cases with this. Whisk up a white of egg and add, when stiff, a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, some chicken farce, and a little bechamel sauce. Put this mixture in a forcing-bag and force out neatly on to the top of each cassolette, as shown in the illustration. Place them in a hot oven for about ten minutes, dish up, and serve hot. Note.—In plate of paste the timbale shapes may be made of bread or rice or semolina, scooped out when cooked, i.e. fried or baked, and filled as directed. Cassolettes a la Perigourdine. Fried rice cassolette crust filled with small game quenelles, slices of sweetbread, cocks’ combs, kernels, and truffles ; sauce Madere. Cassolettes a la Richelieu. Baked paste cassolette crusts filled with small chicken quenelles, poached and fried, mushrooms, and truffle sauce. Cassolettes de Venaison ( Venison Cassolettes). Stewed fillets of venison minced coarsely, moistened with rich brown sauce, and baked in paste-crust cases. Cassolettes de Volaille a la Perigueux {Chicken Cassolettes). Stewed fillets of chicken with sliced or chopped truffles and brown sauce, baked in paste-crust cases. Croustades aux Huitres. Oyster croustade filled with poached oysters, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and veloutee sauce. Croustades a I’Imperiale. Baked rice croustade filled with a ragout of chicken fillets, foie- gras, mushrooms and truffles (supreme sauce). Croustades de Macaroni. Macaroni croustade filled with cooked macaroni, ham cut in dice, cheese and tomato sauce. Croustades de Gibier a la Vatel {Game Croustade, Vatel Style). Stewed fillets of game, richly flavoured with chopped truffles and mushrooms, served in fried bread croustades. Croustades a la Montreux. 4 oz. calf’s liver, 2 oz. bacon, i oz. butter, 2 shallots, 8 oz. chicken, freed from skin and bones, 2 oz. panade, 3 whole eggs, salt, mignonette pepper, aromatic seasoning, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, i truffle, about -|lb. short crust paste, Madere sauce. Cut the liver and bacon into thin slices and season to taste. Peel and chop the shallots finely, ffy them slightly in the butter, put in the bacon, fry a little, then add the liver, and toss over the fire for a few minutes, together with a very small amount of thyme and marjoram. Remove the herbs, pound the remainder in a mortar, pound the chicken separately, add the panade and three yolks of eggs, when smooth and thoroughly mixed season with a little aromatic spice, and salt and pepper if necessary. Add the liver farce, mix it well together with the truffle chopped finely, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Should the farce be found too stiff, add357 LIGHT ENTREES {HOT).—ENTRf:ES LiCERES. a little brown, sauce. Roll out the paste rather thinly, and line several small croustacle or timbale moulds with this, trim the edges of the paste and prick the bottom to prevent blistering. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix rather more than half with the prepared farce. Fill the lined moulds with this, put them on a baking-dish into a fairly hot oven, and bake from twenty-live to thirty minutes. When nearly done unmould, spread a little of the remaining whipped whites of eggs on top of each croustade, and sprinkle over a little grated cheese, mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and finish baking. The white of egg can be put on the croustades by means of a forcing-bag with a large rose pipe. Arrange them nicely on a dish and serve with hot sauce Maclere. Cromesquis, Cromeskis or Kromeskis, These are small rolls of savoury preparations called salpicon, composed of fowl, game, etc., rolled in thin slices of bacon, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot lard or fat, and garnished with fried parsley. Cromesquis a la Russe {Russian Kromeskis). Prepare a salpicon (p. 124) composed of cooked chicken fillet, ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles, and white sauce. When set and cold make up into little rolls, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon. Dip in frying batter (p. 135), coating them completely with batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley (p. 122), serve with picpiante or tomato sauce. Cromesquis au Jambon [Ham Kromeskis). Little rolls or cork shapes of minced ham, mushroom, and truffle, made up in salpicon with Madere sauce, rolled up in bacon, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. Cromesquis de Volaille {Chicken Kromeskis). These consist of chicken-meat salpicon (p. 124) made up into small rolls, wrapped in slices of bacon, coated with frying batter (p. 135), and fried in deep, hot fat. Garnish with parsley and serve with or without sauce. Supreme is most suitable.358 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Croquettes. This name is given to oval, round, ball, cutlet or cork shapes of minced, cooked, savoury hsh, meat, poultry or game, the ingredients are usually mixed with chopped mushrooms, truffle, ham or tongue, moistened with white or brown sauce, and egg to bind. These shapes are egged, crumbed, and fried in clarilied butter or dripping. The following are the names of some of the most popular croquettes :— Croquettes de Volaille.—Chicken croquettes. Croquettes de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver croquettes. Croquettes de Gibier aux truffes.—Game croquettes with truffles. Croquettes de Perdreau.—Partridge croquettes. Croquettes de Riz au Salpicon.—Cooked rice and minced chicken, ham, etc., made into croquettes and fried. Croquettes de Rognons de Veau.—Calf’s kidney croquettes. Croquettes de Veau.—Veal croquettes. Petites Cremes a I’Ecarlate [Small Chicken Creams with Tongue). 8 to 10 oz. chicken, 2 oz. paiiade, \ gill bechamel sauce, 3 yolks and i whole egg, I oz. butter, salt, mignonette pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, 2 oz. ox tongue (cooked and chopped very finely). Pompadour sauce, macedoine or green peas for garnish. Cut the chicken or veal into small pieces or shred it finely, removing skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar, add the panade, bechamel sauce, and the eggs one at a time. Season to taste, and mix in rather more than half the butter. When the farce is well pounded, rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Butter eight to ten tongue moulds, cover the inside with finely chopped tongue, and fill up with the prepared farce. Stand the moulds in a saute- pan containing a little boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and cook for about twenty minutes. Turn the moulds on to a cloth, dish the little tongues in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, fill up the centre with prepared vegetable macedoine or green peas, pour a little Pompadour sauce round the base of the dish and serve. Dormes feuilletes de Ris de Veau. I large or 2 small sweetbreads, pint rich stock, i gill supreme or Allemande sauce, 8 preserved mushrooms, \ lb. puff-paste, 2 truffles, i tablespoonful grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, t oz. butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Blanch, trim, and cook the sweetbread in the stock till tender. When done, take up, cut it into dice shapes and put in a stewpan with the mushrooms and truffles, cut into small dice or slices, season with a little pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, then add the hot sauce and keep hot till required. Line some small round bouche moulds with puff-paste, prick the bottom of each, to prevent blister- ing whilst baking, fill them with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake them in a hot oven to a golden colour. When done take out the rice, unmould and fill the croustades with the sweetbread ragout. Sprinkle over the top of each some grated cheese, a fewLIGHT ES TREES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGIiRES. 359 breadcrumbs, and a little melted butter. Just before serving put the croustades in a sharp oven for a few minutes. Domes a la Viennoise. I lb. lean veal or chicken meat, ^ small lobster, i chopped shallot, i oz. butter, I tablespoonful flour, i gill” gravy, salt, pepper, and paprika, 8 arti- choke bottoms, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs and frjdng-fat, tried parsley. Free the meat from skin and sinews, pass it twice through the mincing machine, season with pepper, salt, and paprika. Remove all the meat from the lobster shell and chop it hnely. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and fry in it the shallot, put in the minced meat and fry it for a few minutes over a quick lire. Sprinkle in the hour, cook for a few minutes, moisten with the gravy, boil up, add a well-beaten egg and the lobster, cook until the egg binds, and spread on a dish. Make up into small, round, hat cakes the size of artichoke bottoms, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain carefully and dress them on the artichoke bottoms, previously heated in well-seasoned stock or gravy. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley and serve hot, with any suitable sauce. Friandines. These are made of puff-paste, rolled out thinly with a 2-inch huted round cutter, with a portion of prepared mince or salpicon of meat or game placed in the centre of each round. This is covered with a round of paste, egged, dipped in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter, lard or dripping. Friandines de Ris d’Agneau. .} lb. puff-paste, 2 oz. tongue, i truffle, seasoning, vermicelli, i gill tomato sauce, I tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 2 lambs’ breads, 4 champignons, \ gill Allemande sauce, clarified butter for frying, i French gherkin, -| oz. butter. Trim, blanch and braise the lambs’ breads with a good mirepoi.x, when done let cool and cut into hne dice. Chop the tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles rather finely, and mix with the lambs’ breads ; season to taste. Tfeat up the Allemande sauce, put in the above ingredients, let them get thoroughly hot, then put them on a dish and let cool. Roll out the puff-paste rather thinly, stamp out as many rounds as are required, using a 2t-inch paste cutter for this purpose. Place a dessertspoonful of the mixture (salpicon) in the centre of a round of paste, on this put a slice of truffle, wet the edges, and place a second round of paste on top ; press the edges together, and continue thus till the mixture and paste are used up. Egg them, cover them with a mixture of crushed biscuits, vermicelli, and parmesan cheese, and fry in clarified butter to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce made by infusing finely chopped gherkins in the vinegar, to which add the tomato sauce ; boil up, and send to table. Friandines de Volaille.—Chicken friandines. Friandines de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver friandines. Friandines de Gibier.—Game friandines. Friandines de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread friandines.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 360 Fricandelles a I’AHemande. lb. cooked chicken meat or any other kind of poultry, including a little ham or tongue, i slice of onion chopped fine, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, oz. butter, | oz. hour, 2 eggs, gill of gravy or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, I- pint of pancake batter, breadcrumbs, frying-batter. Chop the meat very fine, fry the onion in half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add the flour, cook to a golden colour, stir in the gravy, cook five minutes, and put in the meat. When thoroughly hot bind with two yolks of eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, and let it cool. Make four or more pancakes, put them on a paste-board, spread the prepared meat mixture over the pancakes, roll up neatly, and cut into oblong pieces about two inches long. Dip them in white of an egg, roll in breadcrumbs, when set, egg and crumb a second time. Place the fricandelles in a wire basket and fry in hot fat or lard a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. Note.—As an accompaniment to this dish a nicely dressed beet- root or celery salad is recommended. Instead of chicken, cold fish or any kind of meat can be used in this way. Miroton de Ris de Veau en Cocotte. 1 cooked sweetbread, 6 champignons, 2 truflles, the breast of a cooked chicken, pint supreme sauce, i pint cooked green peas, | oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Cut the sweetbread and chicken into small slices, slice the cham- pignons and truffles. Butter eight oblong china souffle cases and fill them with the above, sauce over each layer with supreme sauefe, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Rub the peas through a fine sieve, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the pea puree, season to taste, stir till hot, add the egg-yolks, and cook a little longer. Put this in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, force out the puree on to the top of the cases, completely covering the surface. Place the cases on a baking-sheet, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and send to table very hot. Timbales de Ris de Veau a la Mirabeau {Sweetbread Timbales). 24 stuffed olives, i cooked sweetbread, lb. lean veal, j lb. veal suet, 3 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, and i whole egg, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, I oz. anchovy paste, a few cocks’ kernels well reduced demi- glace or Madere sauce, seasoning. Butter a large timbale mould, and garnish the bottom with stuffed olives. Pound the veal and suet, separately, in a mortar till quite smooth, then mix together, add by degrees the panade and eggs, and season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and mix thoroughly. Add the anchovy paste, and pass the mixture through a fine sieve, and test the consistency of the farce. Line the bottom and the sides of the timbale mould with the farce, cut the sweet- bread, mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ kernels into small dice, and moisten with some well reduced, rich Madere or demi-glace sauce. Put this in the mould, fill it up with the remainder of the farce. Place the mould in a saute-pan containing boiling water, cover with361 LIGHT ENTRllES (HOT).—ENTREES LIiGERES. a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about one and a quarter hours. Turn out on a round dish, sauce over with some hot Madeira sauce, and send a small boat of the same sauce to table with the dish. Petits Pains or Darioles. Pains or darioles are made with certain kinds of preparation forcemeat, which are placed in suitable small buttered moulds, and poached in the oven ; usually served with rich white or brown sauces. Pains are made in plain, and darioles in fluted, moulds. Petits Pains a la Dumas. 3 slice.s of cooked ox-tongue, i large truffle, a little butter. Duxelle pune, 4 oz. bacon, 2 shallots, i champignon, parsley and truffles, seasoning, and brown sauce to moisten, 2 yolks of eggs, -t lb. chicken farce (forcemeat), sauce ravigote; 2 anchovy fillets, 2 gherkins, i shallot, parsley, tarragon, chervil, i oz. butter, ^ gill cream, 3 egg-yolks, i tablespoonful bechamel, I tablespooiiful spinach, and seasoning. Butter 8 small timbale moulds, and decorate them in any of the styles shown below, or follow this : Place a thin round of tongue in the centre of the bottom of each, and at equal distances arrange thin strips of tongue in the form of triangles on the sides of each mould, fix small rounds_of truffle between the tri- angles. Put the moulds on the ice till required. To prepare the Duxelle ])uree, chop the bacon, fry it, and add the shallots finely chopped, blend well, add the mushroom, also chopped, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the trimmings of truffle chopped finely, season to taste, and moisten with a little brown sauce. Beat up thoroughly, add 2 yolks of eggs, and let the mixture bind. Mask the sides and bottom of each mould with a well-prepared light chicken farce, and fill the centre with Duxelle puree, cover with more forcemeat. Place the moulds in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and poach in the oven for twenty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour the ravigote sauce, made with the ingredients named, round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Petits Pains de Cailles.—Small darioles of quail forcemeat ; truffle sauce. Petits Pains de Foie-gras.—Small goose-liver and truffle timbales ; Madere sauce. Petits Pains de Volaille a la Creme.—Chicken cream souffles baked in china or paper cases. Palmettes a la Gambetta. I lb. chicken or veal forcemeat, 6 eggs, i- gill cream, i truffle, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little clarified butter, tomato sauce. Butter 8 to lo small round dariole moulds, beat up the eggs the SUGGESTIONS FOIl DECORATING PETITS PAINS TIMBALES AND OTHER SMALL PLAIN MOULDS, USING SLICES OF TRUFFLE, HAM, TONGUE, OR GREEN PEAS AND PIMIENTOS.362 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. same as for an omelet, add the cream, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Divide this mixture equally into the moulds, and poach slowly in the oven. Put the forcemeat, previously seasoned, in one or two well-buttered flat moulds, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. Let cool a little, then stamp out as many rounds as there are moulds, and the same size as the moulds. Turn out the egg moulds, and place one on each of the forcemeat socles, put a fancifully cut slice of truffle on top of each, dish up, keep in the oven till hot, and serve with tomato sauce. Pilau or Pillaw a ITndienne. Braised, boned, and stuffed fowl, cut into small slices, dressed with minced fried onions, mangoes, on small rice shapes. Served with curry sauce. Pilau a la Turque. Minced chicken and ham mixed with cooked savoury rice, seasoned with savoury herbs, flavoured with sherry. Dressed neatly and served hot. Quenelles de Rognons a la Parmentier [Quenelles of Kidney with Potatoes). 3-4 sheep’s kidneys, 6 champignons, i shallot, oz. butter, J glass Marsala, 2 tablespoonfuls Espagnole sauce, a little chopped parsley, seasoning, tomato sauce for border, 3 medium-sized potatoes for bouches or quenelle lining, frying-fat, 6 oz. pounded chicken meat, 2 oz. choux paste, 2 egg- yolks, I tablespoonful cream, salt, and nutmeg, panurette for crumbing. Scald, skin, and slice the kidneys very finely, also slice the mushrooms, peel and chop the shallot, fry the latter a little in the butter, put in the k i d n e ys, and toss (saute) them for some minutes over a quick fire. Next add the wine and the Espag- n o 1 e sauce. Season to taste, and cook quickly for a few minutes. Lastly, add the chopped parsley, and keep till wanted. To prepare the chicken mixture: Pound and sieve the chicken meat, mix with the choux paste, stir over the fire in a stewpan, adding the cream and yolks of eggs, and season to taste. Butter 8 to lo small bouche or egg moulds, sprinkle them with panurette, and line them with the mixture, nearly fill with stewed kidneys, etc., and cover well with more of the mixture. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little363 LIGHT ENTRl^ES {HOT).—ENTRfiES LEGERES. boiling water, and bake in the oven for about ten minutes. Meanwhile, peel 3 potatoes, and slice them very thinly, cut the slices into very hne julienne strips, soak in water for a time, and drain well on a cloth. Pack these loosely into a wire border mould, place on its lid, and plunge into very hot fat for about three minutes, then remove, let the fat get hot again, and plunge in a second time until the potatoes accpxire a pale brown colour. Take up, drain, remove lid, and turn on to a hot dish. Sprinkle with salt, dress the quenelles in the centre, pour some tomato sauce round the dish, and send the remainder to table in a sauce-boat. Quenelles a la Clamart. 8 to 10 oz. chicken, veal or rabbit meat free from bone, skin, and gristle, lb. bread panade, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, i gill of bechamel sauce, I oz. butter, i gill of cooked peas, i truffle, ^ cucumber, pint stock, pepper, salt, mustard, aromatic seasoning, spinach greening, mashed potatoes for border. Cut the meat into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the panade, cream, a few drops of spinach greening or a table- spoonful of cooked spinach, and the eggs. Season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Fill a number of well-buttered and ornamented pea-shaped moulds with this farce, place them in a saute-pan with a little water, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Reduce the stock, skim, add the sauce, and reduce again. Scoop out some pea shapes of cucumber, cook in salted water, drain, and put them in a stewpan together with the peas, add the butter, and toss over the fire. Cut out the truffle in pea-shapes, mix with the above, moisten with a little sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Turn out the moulds and dress neatly on a round border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with the pre- pared garnish, and pour a little of the remaining sauce round the base of the dish. Should any quenelle-meat be left over, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet and force out on a buttered saute-pan very small marble-shaped quenelles, add a little stock, poach for five minutes, and mix these with the garniture. Ravioles a la Napolitaine [Neapolitan Raviolis). These are very small flat patties made of nouille paste, and hlled with a mixture of chicken forcemeat, grated parmesan cheese, yolks of eggs, and cayenne, poached in stock or baked in the oven, and served with tomato sauce. Roulettes de Ris de Veau a ITmperatrice. 6 oz. cooked sweetbread. 6 mushrooms, i small truffle, puff-paste, fried parsley, puree of green peas, 2 02. cooked ox-tongue, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, -J- gill bechamel sauce, pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of paprika. Mince rather coarsely the sweetbread, tongue, mushrooms, and truffle, and put in a saucepan with enough sauce to bind and pro- duce a salpicon of moderate consistency. Season to taste, and keep hot in the bain-marie. Roll out the paste, cut out some squares or rounds of even size, roll each round well-greased three- inch wooden rollers. Place them on a baking-sheet, folded sidesTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 364 downwards, brush over with beaten white of egg, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven a nice light-brown colour. Remove the wooden rollers. Fill the roulettes of pastry with the above mixture. Ornament the top with green pea puree, by means of a forcing-bag, and fried parsley. Dish up, and serve hot. Rissoles and Rissolettes. The origin of these words comes from the French “ rissoler ”— to brown. Rissoles are generally prepared by rolling out rather thinly puff-paste, rough puff, or short crust paste. The paste is stamped out into rounds about two and a half or three inches in diameter, a teasj)oonful of forcemeat or other savoury mixture is placed in the centre of each round, and after wetting the edges with water or egg they are folded over, pressed lightly, and shaped into half-moons. They are then egged and crumbed, and fried in hot fat. Rissolettes are made on a similar plan, but instead of being folded over they are stamped out in small rounds, much smaller than rissoles, and covered with another round of paste, and so enclose the savoury mixture. It is best to use a small fluted cutter for making rissolettes. They are egged and crumbed and fried the same as rissoles. The garnish consists invariably of fried parsley. Rissolettes de Foie-gras a la Pompadour. 1 small terrine of foie-gras, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked tongue. 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee or bechamel sauce, i lb. puff-paste, frying-fat, parsley for garnish. Prepare a salpicon with the foie-gras, mushrooms, and tongue, put it in a stewpan, and moisten with sufficient sauce to obtain the right consistency for a salpicon, heat up, and put on a dish to cool. Have ready some good puff-paste (six turns), roll out about one-eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out some rounds with a i-f-inch cutter. Put about a teaspoonful of the salpicon mixture in the centre of half the rounds of paste, slightly wet the edges, and cover over with the other rounds of paste, press down lightly so as to close the edges. Fry in very hot fat, drain, and serve on a dish with folded napkin. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, plain or fried. Be careful not to touch the extreme edges of the paste, because this will prevent the paste from rising.LIGHT ENTRfiES [HO'D.—ENTRIIeS LEGERES. 365 Rissoles a la Russe (Russian Rissoles).—Filling: salpicon of minced chicken, tongue, ham. and mushrooms. Rissoles a la Moelle de Bceuf.—Rissoles. containing beef-marrow, previously blanched and mixed with brown sauce. Rissoles de Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread rissoles. Mi.x minced cooked sweetbread with white sauce, truftles, and mushrooms, and enclose in paste. Rissoles de Volaille a I'lndienne.—Curried fowl rissoles. Mince cooked chicken with curry sauce, chopped mushrooms, and boiled rice, and enclose in paste. Rissoles de Gibier (Game Rissoles).—Prepare a salpicon of cooked game and truffles. Make up into small balls and enclose in paste. Rissoles a la Chasseur ( Venison Rissoles).—The same as game rissoles, using cooked venison, etc. Rissoles de Becasse aux trufles (Snipe Rissoles with Truffles).—The same as above, using cold roast snipe, and making it into a salpicon with brown sauce, etc. Rissoles de Foie-gras (Goose-liver Rissoles).—Cut foie-gras pate truffled into dice, or scoop out with a vegetable cutter or teaspoon and enclose in paste. Rissoles de Homard (Lobster Rissoles).—Mince the lobster, mix with veloutee or Allemande sauce, and enclose in paste. Rissoles aux Huitres (Oyster Rissoles).—Blanch the oysters, beard them and chop finely, mix with white sauce and egg-yolks and bind. Use when cold for rissoles. Rissoles a la Hollandaise ( Dutch Rissoles).—Proceed in the same way as above described, but mix finely chopped triiffles with the oysters and sauce, and enclose in paste. Petits Souffles a la Minute {Hasty Souffle). I lb. chicken or lean veal, free from skin and sinews, 3 eggs, i gill cream, I truffle, seasoning, a little bechamel sauce, butter. Shred the meat as hnely as possible, then pound it in a mortar until c^uite smooth, adding one by one the yolks of eggs, and lastly the cream. Rub this through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a basin. Beat up the white of one egg, and mix into the puree. Season lightly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Butter a few small china souffle cases, put about a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce into each, and fill with the prepared farce. Chop finely the truffle and sprinkle this over the top of each. Place the cases on a baking-tin or saute-pan, cover with a buttered paper. Bake for about fifteen minutes. Serve the cases on a hot dish, covered with a folded napkin. Petits Souffles a la Henri IV. Little souffles of chicken or ral)bit, 3 oz. of cooked meat of chicken or rabbit, if oz. of butter, if oz. of flour, i-V gill of good white stock. 3 whites and 2 yolks of eggs, i tcaspoonful of lemon-juice, 8 large preserved mush- rooms, little cooked ham or tongue, l)readcrumbs, salt, pepper, cayenne. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, let it boil, put in the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until366 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the mixture is thoroughly blended. Chop finely the ham, chicken or rabbit meat (freed from gristle and skin), add it to the mixture, and season with lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with the above. Fill np some paper or china souffle cases, place a mushroom on top of each, sprinkle over a few breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, serve quickly. SoufTles Toulousienne en Casseroles. 6 oz. cooked o.x-tongue, 4 oz. lean ham, ^ gill cream, ^ oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 whites of egg, i small cooked sweetbread, i oz. butter, 2 table- spoonfuls bechamel, 2 tablespoonfnls tomato pulp, \ pint cooked green peas, ^ pint asparagus points (tips), seasoning. Pound the tongue and ham in a mortar till quite smooth, add one by one the whites of two eggs, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the puree on the ice to get thoroughly cold, then stir in the cream, two tablespoonfuls of well-reduced tomato pulp, and season with white pepper and paprika or krona. Mix the cooked peas and asparagus tips with I an ounce of oiled butter and the bechamel sauce, and season with salt and pepper and a pinch of nutmeg. Butter 8-io small plated casserole pans, and sprinkle with grated cheese, put about a teaspoonful of the vegetables in each, upon this place a round slice of cooked sweetbread, and fill up with the prepared tongue farce. Place the cocotte pans in a saute-pan containing a little water, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a fairly hot oven from twenty to thirty minutes. Place a ring of truffle and champignon head in the centre of each. Dish up neatly, and serve at once. Timbales and Darioles. The word timbale means a cup, bowl or beaker, but in cookery it is applied to certain kinds of light fish, meat or game souffles, cooked in cup or timbale-shaped moulds, either baked or poached.LIGHT ENTREES {HOT).~ENTREES LEGERES. 367 ■ The moulds are frequently lined with a thin ])aste, nouillc or short- crust or with cooked macaroni. Timbale Napolitaine [Macaroni Shape nhUi Sioccthrcad). Boil 4 to 6 oz. large macaroni till tender, cool, and drain on a cloth, and cut them into round slices, arrange these rings neatly against the sides and the bottom of a well-buttered timbale mould, so as t<j completely cover the interior, and place it on the ice to set. Have ready a very light farce (chicken or veal quenelle forcemeat). Spread very carefully the sides and bottom of mould with this, taking great care not to remove the macaroni rings. Fill the mould thus prepared with a ragout of sweetbread, truffle, tongue, mush- room, and quenelles, each layer of ragout being alternated with cooked macaroni and tomato sauce. Cover the mould with buttered paper and cook it, placed in a saute-pan with water, in the oven. Allow from forty-hve to sixty minutes in a fairly hot oven. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and pour hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish. Timbale a la Turinoise. q lb. macaroni (boiled), lb. cooked chicken, veal or ralibit meat, 4 oz. cooked ham, 4 02. ox-tongue, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms, i oz. butter. I oz. grated parmesan cheese, i gill white sauce, 4 giU cream, i teaspoonful finely grated lemon-rind, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, deini-glace or Madere sauce. Wind long lengths of cooked macaroni round and round a well- buttered timbale mould or ordinary pudding basin. Do this care- fully, so that the shape resembles a bee-hive when it is turned out. Cut the remainder of macaroni into short pieces, cut all the meats into julienne strips or shreds, also the mushrooms. Put368 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. these in a stevvpan with the butter, stir till hot, add the grated cheese, the white sauce, and the cream, heat up without allowing it to actually boil, then stir in the eggs, previously beaten, ancl continue stirring over the fire until the mixture begins to set. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and the lemon-rind. Fill the lined mould with this, cover with a piece of buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook in a brisk oven for about half an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour some hot demi-glace or Madere sauce round, and serve. Timbales de Ris d’Agneau a la Princesse {Lambs’ Bread and Peas Timbales). I pint green peas. \ gill cream, 2 pairs lambs’ breads, 3 egg-yolks, ^ pint veloutee sance, 2 slices of tongue, i truffle, aspic, 6 mushrooms (preserved), seasoning, i oz. butter, a mirepoix for braising purposes, 2 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 2 hard-boiled whites of egg. Wash the peas, boil them with a sprig of green mint in salted water till tender, strain, and rub through a line sieve. Heat up the pea puree with the butter, a little cream, and a gill of veloutee sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and add, when the mixture is thoroughly hot, the yolks of eggs. Butter 6 or 8 small plain timbale moulds, decorate the bottom with rounds of tongue and whites of egg, then line each with the \ prepared puree, ancl hll the centre with a salpicon of lambs’ breads made as follows : Blanch, trim, and braise the lambs’ breads in the usual manner, cut up into small dice, and mix with six preserved mushrooms and truffle trimmings. Moisten with veloutee sauce. Cover the moulds, thus hlled, with a layer of puree, and poach them for twenty minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, pour some green mousseline sauce round the base of the dish, and serve.LIGHT ENTRIES [HOT).—ENTR/iES LEgIlRES. 369 Petites Timbales de Gibier a la Galmier. I lb. raw hare, partridge or pheasant meat, free from skin and bones, j chicken livers or an equal quantity of calf’s liver, 3 tablespoonfuls well- reduced bechamel sauce, i raw egg and i yolk of egg, i large truffle, i table- spoonful double cream, 4 lb. cooked lean ham, | llx cooked game, 8 large mushrooms (preserved), 3 tablespoonfuls vegetable macedoine, i table- spoonful rich brown sauce, seasoning, tomato sauce. Pound the raw meat and the chicken li\'ers in a mortar till quite smooth, add the bechamel sauce and the eggs, season to taste, and rub through a line sieve. Butter 8 or lo small timbale moulds, sprinkle over with finely chopped trnttle. Work up the farce with the cream and line the moulds with it. Prepare a sal- picon with the cooked game and ham (cut into small dice) and the vegetable macedoine, add the brown sauce, season, put about a dessertspoonful in the centre of each mould, fill np with the re- mainder of farce, and poach in the oven from twenty to twenty- live minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, ]dace a mushroom on top of each timbale, sauce over carefully with tomato sauce, previously heated, and serve. Petites Timbales a la Meridionale. J lb. lean mutton fillet, 2 teaspoonfuls Espagnole sauce, i tablespoonful sherry or Madeira, i tablespoonful cream, i oz. butter, 2 eggs, 10 stuffed Spanish olives, i gill well-reduced tomato sauce, i gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Cut the meat into small pieces and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the Espagnole sauce, wine, cream, half an ounce of blitter, and the eggs, one at a time, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Butter 8 to lo small dariole or timbale moulds, fill them with this preparation, leaving a small hollow in the centre of each, in which place about a dessertspoonful of reduced tomato sauce and an olive stuffed with forcemeat, cover well with forcemeat, and place the moulds in a sante-pan half filled with boiling water. Let it come to the boil, then cover with an oiled paper, and finish cooking in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Unmould, dish up, and sauce over with hot demi-glace. Tartelettes de Ris d’Agneau a la Mirabeau [Lambs’ BreadsTartlets, Mivaheau Style). 3 sets lambs’ breads, a white mirepoi.v (p. 124), rich white stock, puff-paste trimmings or nouille paste, a little chopped ham or tongue, veloutee or supreme sauce, white chaud-froid sauce, slices of ham, meat glaze, pimiento skins. Blanch and trim the breads, braise them in the mirepoix and a little rich white stock. When done, take np, press, and let cool. Line the required number of round or oval-shaped fiuted or crinkled tartlet pans, with puff paste trimmings or nonille paste, and bake them (blind) in a moderate oven to a golden colour. Cut the braised lambs’ breads into slices, and shape to the size of the baked paste tartlet crusts. Pound the trimmings of the lambs’ breads with a little ham or tongue, moisten with veloutee or supreme^70 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. sauce, season to taste, and spread the inside of the tartlet crusts with this. Coat the slices of lambs’ breads with white chaud-froid sauce, put one in each of the prepared tartlet crusts, and on top TARTELETTES DE RIS d’AGNEAU A LA MIRABEAU. place a thinly cut neat slice of glazed ham (jellied) surrounded by a thin round of pimiento. Dish up neatly, and serve. Vol-au-Vent. Puff Pastry Crust. This name is given to a light puff-paste crust, made oval or round in shape, the interior of which is hlled with delicately- flavoured white ragouts of fish, lobster, oyster, etc., meat, veal, rabbit, and sweetbread or chicken. This dish is always served hot. Practically the same fillings can be used as for bouchees, but the ingredients are cut somewhat larger than for bouchees. Vol-au-Vent a la Chambord. Small fish quenelles, mushrooms, and truffles, heated up in veloutee sauce, and filled into a vol-au-vent case. Vol-au-Vent a la Duchesse. Boned boiled fowl, cut up small, with mushrooms and truffles, heated in supreme sauce, and filled into a vol-au-vent case. Vol-au-Vent a la Finan^iere. A brown or white ragout of sweetbread, truffles, cocks’ combs, kernels, small chicken quenelles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, dressed in a vol-au-vent case. Vol-au-Vent a la Toulouse. A white stew of small chicken quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, and veal fillets, dressed in a vol-au-vent case.LIGHT ENTRIiES iHOT).—ENTRtES U'LgIzRES. 371 Zephires de Foie-gras. Sauce Supreme. Make sufficient chicken forcemeat to line eight zephire moulds (Hat oval-shaped fluted moulds), butter the moulds well, ornament the bottom of each with truffles, put them on the ice to set firm, line bottoms and sides with forcemeat, in which a cjuantity of foie- gras puree has been incorporated. Place a nice piece of foie-gras naturel in the centre, season with a little aromatic seasoning, and fill up with forcemeat. Place them in a saute-pan half filled with water, bring to the boil, cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Dress them in the form of a star on a round entree dish, sauce over with supreme sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Petits Choux a la Lorraine {Braized Cabbage Rolls). Blanch 3 well washed and trimmed spring cabbages, divide them, and select the best leaves, .placing 2 or 3 t.jgether, and lay on flat. Have ready a mixture composed of sausage meat, chop- ped ham, s a \ o u r y herbs, chop- ped suet, bread- crumbs, and mixed with beaten egg. Make this up into rolls, enclose in cabbage leaves, tie with string, and place in an earthenware stewing-pot containing a mirepoix of bacon, carrot, and onion. Moisten with rich stock, and braise for twenty minutes. Remove the fat aud add 3 to 4 spoonfuls of brown sauce. Continue to cook for another twenty minutes. Take up the cabbage rolls, untruss, and dish up, reduce the sauce, and pour over or round the base of the dish. Omelette de Ris de Veau a I’Allemande {Sweetbread Omelet). Prepare a rich ragout of sliced braised sweetbread re-heated iu veloutee sauce. Beat uj) 8 to 10 eggs, season with pepper and salt, and add 2 tablespoonfnls of cream. Melt 2 oz. of fresh butter in a large omelet pan, when hot pour in the eggs, stir, and make an omelet in the usual manner, when ready for folding, put in the ragout of sweetbread, fold in the ends of the omelet, and let it take colour. Turn out on a hot dish, sauce over with veloutee sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 372 sprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs and oiled butter, brown the surface in a sharp oven or under the salamander, and send to table immediately. Petits Souffles'de Foies de Volaille {Chicken Liver Souffles). 12 chicken livers, i oz. butter, salt and pepper, t gih bechamel sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 3 whites of eggs, 4 oz. foie-gras, 12 china souffle cases. Clean, wash, and dry the livers, slice them and fry in the butter over a quick hre. Add the seasoning, pound in a mortar with the foie-gras. Pass through a fine sieve, and incorporate the bechamel sauce and egg-yolks. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the above. With the mixture three-parts fill about 12 china or silver-plated souffle cases (previously buttered), place them on a baking-sheet, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Cretes de Coque a la Demidoff [Cocks’ Combs a la Demidoff). Select a dozen or more large cocks’ combs, blanch them and roll separately in thin slices of bacon. Place them in a buttered saute-pan with a little stock, white wine, and lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, cover, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take up and let cool, coat with villeroi sauce ; when the sauce is set, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and serve with a boat of truffle sauce. Crepinettes de Foie-gras aux Asperges. I large goose-liver, cooked fowl, parsley, onion, 12 white, peppercorns, ^ bay-leaf, thyme (i sprig), i glass Madeira, ^ pint white stock, 3-4 slices bacon, ^ gill bechamel, ^ gill truffle puree, 2 yolks of eggs, i pig’s caul, 2 oz. butter, I gill demi-glace sauce, i bundle green asparagus sprue. Put the liver—i.e. foie-gras—in a saute-pan on a mirepoix of bacon, onion, parsley, and herbs, etc., add the wine and stock, cover, and poach in the oven. When done, take out the foie-gras, let cool, then cut it and thefcooked fowl, previously freed from skin and gristle, into rather coarse dice shapes, and season with salt and pepper, nutmeg, and krona pepper. If liked, some of the bacon finely cut may also be added. Heat up the bechamel sauce, stir in the egg-yolks, and let bind. Free the liquor left in the pan373 LIGHT ENTRI^ES (HOT).—ENTREES LEGtiRES. from fat, reduce to a half-glaze, add some of this to the sauce, and mix with the meat mixture. Make this up into oblongs or scpiares. Wrap each in a small piece of pig’s caul, spread the outside with chopped truffle or puree, then saute in butter,for about fifteen minutes. Dish up, garnish the sides with groups of cooked green asparagus, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Escallopes de Foie-gras, Lucullus. Take trvo large, firm, fresh geese-livers, well iced, and cut them into scallops about ^ inch thick, season them lightly with salt and paprika, dip them in beaten white of egg, and crumb in a mixture of flour and fresh breadcrumbs. Fry a pale golden colour in a saute-pan with plenty of clarified butter. Drain well, and dish up on croutons of fried bread in the form of a border or crown. Have ready a ragout composed of Desh truffles, washed, peeled, cut into slices, and cooked in Chablis wine, cooked sweetbread cut into dice, seasoned with a little rich demi-glace sauce. Serve the ragout in the centre of the dish, and send to table with a boat of iMadeira, demi-glace, or thin tomato sauce. Timbales de Risotto, Milanaise. Fry lightly, in i oz. of butter and 2 oz. of finely chopped cooked ham, 6 oz. of picked rice, add a pinch of saffron and paprika anti moisten gradually with i pint of stock ; cook till tender, then let it evaporate. Next toss in butter two peeled and shredded ripe tomatoes, three peeled and shredded fresh mushrooms and 2 oz. of ham cut into fine strips, and season to taste. Butter 8 timbale moulds, coat them with panurette, and fill with the cooked rice with the tomatoes and mushrooms in the centre. Bake them in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, then turn out, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Cotelettes de Pols a la St. Germain [Green Pea Cutlets). Prepare a mirepoix of carrot, celery, leek, turnip, and bacon, and toss it in butter in a stewpan, adcl a pint of green split peas (soaked in water), cover wdth seasoned stock. Re-heat in a stew- pan, and cook for about half an hour or longer. When done, imb all through a sieve, add 3 yolks of eggs, 3 oz. finely chopped cooked ham, and 2 tablespoonfids of cream; season with salt and pepper. Spread on to a dish and let cool. Sha})e neatly into cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them carefully and fry them to a golden colour in clarified butter. Drain, dish up neatly, fill the centre of the dish with cooked asparagus tips or sprue drained and tossed in butter. Pour some rich tomato sauce containing a little finely chopped gherkins round the base of the dish, and serve.374 CHAPTER XXL VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTREES. (See also Chapters XXVIII. and XXIX.) Chartreuse de Legumes a la Quirinal {Cold Vegetable Chartreuse). Mask the inside of a Chartreuse mould with a thin layer of aspic ; when nearly set, sprinkle in sections with : {a) finely chopped hard-boiled white of egg, [h) chopped truffle, (c) chopped hard- boiled yolk of egg, and [d) chopped parsley and chervil. This must be neatly done, and the four colours evenly and effectively arranged. (See illustration of dish.) Decorate the bottom of the mould with small rounds of new potatoes and truffles alternately placed in. Then coat again with aspic jelly. Cut into short pieces the green parts of half a bundle of cooked asparagus, ^ lb. cooked French beans, 3-4 small ripe tomatoes, skinned, cut up small, and drained from moisture, 3-4 cooked artichoke bottoms, and 3-4 cold young kidney potatoes, all cut into small dice. Mix this with some chopped truffle, and enough mayonnaise and aspic to blend. Ifffleeded, add also salt and pepper, and mix carefully, then fill into the prepared mould, and place it on the ice for about two hours. Unmould on to a shallow entree dish, place a lettuce heart coated with mayonnaise in the centre, and serve.VEGILTABLH AND FARINAGE ENTREES. 57 S Champignons a la Provenpale (Mushrooms, Provence Style). I basket of even-sized enp mushrooms, i gil! Provence oil, seasoning, 1 small onion, chopped par.sley, i oz. butter, 4 oz. lean bacon or ham, i gill bechamel, breadcrumbs, i gill soubi.se puree, i egg-yolk, 8 small rings of puff-pastry. Peel and wash the mushrooms, and remove the stalks. Drain them on a cloth, put them in a dish, and pour over the oil. Cover and let stand for one hour. Fry the' mushrooms carefully in Provence oil, and season them. Peel and chop finely the onion. Fry these with the butter to a golden brown, then add the parsley, about I dessertspoonful, and lastly the bacon or ham cut in hue shreds. Line a buttered or oiled gratin dish with this, and place the mushroom heads on top, ranging them neatly. Sauce over with well-seasoned bechamel sauce, besprinkle with a few breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Place a small puff- pastry ring on each mushroom head, and fill the centre with hot soubise puree, enriched with a yolk of egg. The dish is then ready to serve. Ragout de Champignons (Mushrooms, Stew). Remove the skin and stalks from a pound of large cup mush- rooms. Season with salt and pepper, and fry them for a few minutes in 2 oz. of fresh butter. Then put them in a stewpan with enough stock and white sauce to cover, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Add a tablespoonful of white wine and a few drops of lemon-juice. Just before serving add a tablespoonful of cream to the sauce. Dish up and garnish with fleurons of puff pastry. Beignets a la Gastronome (Maize Fritters). Boil up d pint of rich white stock, and stir in 2 oz. of Indian maize or semolina (line grain), cook whilst stirring for ten minutes. Now add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 oz. of foie-gras puree, i oz. of hnely chopped lean ham, and 2 yolks of eggs. Stir over the fire long enough to bind the eggs. Season with paprika or krona and white pepper, and spread on to a small baking-sheet. When cold.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 376 stamp out into rings (like apple rings for fritters), dip them into frying-hatter, and fry in hot fat to a golden colour. Take up, drain, dish up, and serve with sauce gastronome. Garottes a la Favorite {Young Cairots, Favourite Style). Trim, wash, and scrape a bunch of young carrots, and cook them in salted water nntil tender, then drain and toss them in 2 oz. of fresh butter. Put half a pint of cooked Ifageolet beans into a buttered hre-proof dish. Sauce over with bechamel or other rich white sauce. Upon this range the cooked carrots neatly, glaze them with dissolved meat glaze. Besprinkle with chopped parsley. Garnish with lleurons of puff pastry, and serve hot. Celeri Raves a la Tyrolienne {Celcriac Fritters). 2 ccleriac, 6-8 large sauce oysters, ^ a small French dinner roll, 2 egg-yolks, I teaspoonfnl of anchovy essence, i teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley, frying batter, and clarified butter and oil for frying, seasoning, fried parsley. W'ash and peel the cel- eriac, then cut into slices about ^ of an inch thick, blanch the m i n salted water and cook in white stock or seasoned water, till nearly ten- der. When done, drain them on a cloth, and let get cold. Beard the oysters, and chop them hnely, put them into a basin with the oyster liquor. vSoak the crumby part of the French roll377 VEGETABLE AND EARINAGE ENTRl'iES. in a little milk, when soft squeeze out the moisture, and mix with the oysters, adding also the eggs, anchovy, and chopped parsley. Season to taste, and mix well. Spread the mixture between each two slices of celeriac, and sandwich them together. Dip each into a light frying batter, and fry in deep oil and clarified butter till of a nice golden brown. Take up, drain well, and dish up. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Cassolettes de Celeri a la Napolitaine {Celery and Macaroni). Trim and wash 2 heads of white celery, boil them till tender in milk and water, seasoned with salt and a bay-leaf. Drain the celery, and cut it into i-inch lengths. Cook likewise 2 oz. of macaroni (spaghetti) in salted water, and when done drain on a sieve, and cut into short pieces. Heat up i f gills of rich white sauce (bechamel or veloutee), put in the celery and macaroni, season with white pepper and a grate of nutmeg, and let the whole simmer gently for fifteen minutes or longer. Great care must be taken so as not to break the celery or macaroni. Have ready g-io oblong or oval cassolette cases lined with thin nouille paste and baked (blind) to a golden brown. Fill these with the above preparation. Dish up on a hot entree dish, and serve. Crepinettes de Courge [Vegetable Marrow Crepinettes). I vegetable marrow, f lb. sausage meat, i pig’s caul, seasoning, butter, demi-glace sauce, i egg, potato puree, fried parsley. Peel the vegetable marrow, cut it into htdves lengthways, scoop out the soft portion and cut the rest into neat oblong or round slices (medallions). Blanch them in salted water, and drain on a sieve. Pound the sausage meat in a mortar till smooth, adding the beaten yolk of an egg, and a little cream or stock. Season to taste if found necessary, and rub through a hue sieve. With this farce envelop the pieces of vegetable marrow, and then wrap each piece so jirepared in a piece of pig’s caul, fixing the ends with a little white of egg. Place them on a griller and baste with butter. Grill over a bright fire, allowing about six minutes each side. Brush over with butter occasionally. Dish up neatly in the centre of a potato puree border, garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a boat of rich gravy or demi-glace sauce. Timbales de Ble Vert [Green Corn Timbales). Beat up three eggs, season with salt and paprika or cayenne, add a gill of milk, f gill of cream, and i pint of cooked green corn. Fill up 8 well-buttered timbale moulds, and stand in a saute-pan of boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and bake for about twenty minutes. Turn the moulds out on to a hot dish, and serve with hot bechamel sauce, enriched with a little cream, containing some lemon-juice, finely chopped parsley, and chervil. Souffles glaces a I’Argenteuil [Iced Asparagus Souffles). Boil in salted water the heads or soft parts of half a bundle of best English asparagus, previously scraped and washed. When378 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. tender strain off the water and rub the tender parts of asparagus through a fine sieve. Heat up with i gill of rich bechamel sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When cold, incorporate about half a pint of whipped cream and freeze the mixture in the usual way in a freezing-pot. Fill up a number of very small silver-plated casserole pans each provided with a paper band, insert i head of asparagus in the centre of each, and place the shapes in a charged ice cabinet for about one hour or longer. Remove the paper bands, and dish up. Before serving, sprinkle over each souffle a few finely chopped pistachio nuts. Petites Timbales de Tomates a la Siecle {Tomato Timbales). Prepare a savoury aspic jelly, richly flavoured and clarified with tomato. Line a number of small timbale moulds with the prepared aspic, and place a sprig of chervil in the bottom of each, then fill the timbales with alternate layers of tomato slices (previously peeled and seeds removed), walnut puree mixed with a little cream, and aspic, allowing each layer to set before another is added. Keep on the ice till set, then turn out, dish up, and garnish with finely shredded endive or other green salad. Tomates a la Reforme {Tomatoes, Reform Style). Cut some bacon, cooked ham, tongue, hard-boiled egg, and truffles, into fine strips about an inch long. Take some ripe, hrm, and even-sized tomatoes, remove the stalks, and insert the strips of bacon. Place them side by side in a buttered saute-pan, bake in a moderate oven till brown. Dish iip in the form of a border, and put the strips of truffles, ham, and eggs in the centre, re-heat, and sauce over with poivrade sauce. Tomates a la Renaissance (cold) {Tomato Shapes with Celery and Wadmits). Line some tomato moulds with tomato aspic or tomato cream. Prepare a mixture of finely-cut celery, walnut kernels, and sultanas, bind with stiff mayonnaise, and sufficient aspic to set. Fill each half of the prepared moulds with this preparation, place them to- gether, and keep on ice till required. Unmould, insert a tiny sprig of tarragon leaves in each tomato to represent the tomato stem and leaves. Dish up carefully, and serve cold as entree or second course dish. Tomates farcies aux Champignons {Tomatoes with Mushrooms). 4 firm ripe tomatoes, 12 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, i tablespoonful breadcrumbs (brown bread- crumbs or panurette), J a well-beaten egg, i tablespoonful brown sauce, I oz. butter, seasoning. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them into halves crossways, carefully remove the pulp and put it in a basin, chop finely the mushrooms and the ham or tongue, add these to the tomato pulp, together with the parsley and breadcrumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, mix well, and moisten with the egg and the brown sauce. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, cover theVEGETABLE AND FA BIN AGE ENTREES. 379 surface with brown crumbs of panurette (grated rusk), place a few bits of butter here and there on top of each. Range the tomatoes on a well-buttered tin or sante-pan, and cook in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Choux au Gratin [Cabbage ait Gvatin). Boil a large cabbage, properly trimmed and washed, and drain it well, chop it finely and toss in a little butter. Butter a round errntin rlic;lT linp if witli thin butter here and there on top, and bake to a light brown colour in^a sharp oven. Serve in the gratin dish. Choux Farcis a I’Espagnole [Stuffed Cabbage). Trim and wash 2 young cabbages, scoop out the base of each, blanch them, and stuff with a well-seasoned meat and breadcrumbs stuffing ; place them in a stewpan lined with bacon, moisten with Espagnole sauce, and braise till tender. When cooked, take them out and press the cabbages into shape. Dish up, cover with reduced Espagnole sauce, sprinkle over some fried breadcrumbs, garnish with slices of lemon and grilled cup mushrooms, and serve. Feves de Marais et Tomates a ITndienne [Curried Broad Beans and Tomatoes). Shell enough broad beans to make a quart, and boil them in plenty of slightly salted water till they are almost tender. Drain them and remove the skin whilst hot. Blanch six ripe tomatoes and remove the skin, then cut them into slices, drain and toss them in butter in a saute-pan for a few minutes ; then put them with the broad beans. Mix them carefully and season with salt and pepper. Moisten with a well-made curry sauce, and let simmer very slowly for about twenty minutes. Arrange a border of plain boiled rice on a hot dish, dress the vegetables in the centre, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Creole [Farced Artichoke Bottoms). 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 oz. lean ham, i oz. cooked ox-tongue, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 small truffles, 6 champignons, i gill veloutee sauce, oz. grated parmesan, i oz. butter, i tablespoonful of cream, chicken forcemeat, seasoning. Drain and wipe the artichoke bottoms. Cut the ham, tongue, mushrooms, chicken meat, and one truffle into fine shreds. Mix with sufficient veloutee sauce to moisten, work the cream into the chicken farce. Place a tablespoonful of this salpicon mixture in each of the artichoke bottoms. Cover with chicken forcemeat, smooth over with the blade of a knife (pyramid shape). Put them380 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a buttered paper, and put them in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Meantime warm up the remainder of the sauce ; add the parmesan cheese, and stir until it boils, work in the butter, season with salt and pepper, strain the sauce and keep hot. Dish up the prepared artichokes in a hot entree dish, pour over the sauce. Decorate the centre of each fond with fancifully cut slices of truffle, previously warmed in a little stock, and serve. Souffles d’Artichauts [Artichoke Souffles). Mix a pound of Jerusalem artichoke puree with i oz. bread- crumbs, the yolks of 4 eggs, season with nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and stir in the stiff whites of 2 eggs. Drop spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a golden brown, or fill into small souffle cases and bake in a sharp oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Coeurs d’Artichauts Maraichere [Braised Artichoke Hearts). 6 small tender globe artichokes, i lemon, salt and pepper, 4 giU of olive oil, I small leek. 2 tomatoes, i clove garlic, 3 slices of bacon, 6 small new potatoes, I femall glass white wine, i gill of rich stock, a small handful of each spinach and sorrel leaves. Trim the artichokes, and blend them in salted water containing lemon-juice, take up and drain them, then cut into halves or quar- ters, and trim again by shortening the leaves considerably. Ideat up the oil in a stetvpan (fireproof earthenw^are), fry in it the bacon and the leek, cut into fine shreds, also the garlic ; peel and cut the tomatoes into shreds, and add them to the above. Upon this range the artichokes together with the potatoes, previously washed, peeled, and blanched. Moisten with the wine and stock, and season with salt and pepj)er, then place the spinach and sorrel leaves previously washed on top. Cover the pan w’ith a well-fitting lid, seal up the edges with a band of paste, and cook the contents of38 VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTREES. the pan thus hermetically sealed in the oven for about forty-live minutes. Remove the paste band, and send the cocotte to table hot, placing it on a large dish with folded napkin. Beignets d’Artichauts {Artichoke Fritters). Cut some cooked artichoke bottoms into slices, and season with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and chopped parsley. Dip these pieces, drained, in frying batter. Fry in hot fat, drain, clish ujy and serve hot with a boat of tomato sauce. Souffle de Haricot Verts a la Duchesse [French Bean Souffle, Duchess Style). Cook the French beans in salted water, drain them well, and toss them in butter over a quick hre. Season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, lastly add a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce. Put this into a hreproof dish, and let cool. Prepare a savoury choux-paste mixture, and cover the haricot verts with this ; only a thin layer of paste is needed. Besprinkle with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about hfteen minutes. Place the baking-dish on a fiat entree dish, and serve at once. Note.—Green asparagus or spinach can be prepared and cooked in the same way as above described. Coquilles de Pols Verts a la Suedoise (cold) [Coquils of Green Peas, Swedish Style). Line or mask 6-8 coquil or shell moulds with a thin layer of very clear aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each mould with hnely cut strips of truffle, gherkins, and hard-boiled whites of egg. Mix the remainder of these ingredients with about L pint of cooked green peas (cold), and about 10 preser\"ed mushrooms, cut into small dice, also a handful of pea shapes of circumber previously cooked in salted water, and drained. Blend all these carefully in a basin and add suffleient mayonnaise and aspic to season the ingredients. Fill the prepared moulds partially with this, and pour sufficient aspic in each to completely hll the moulds. Place them on the ice till quite set, then unmould and dish up tastefully in a round or oval dish, garnish the centre with seasoned small salad and chopped aspic, and serve. This is an excellent dish for the warm weather months. In place of coquil moulds, small darioles or timbales may be used. Epinards Farcis a la Moelle [Braised Spinach with Beef Marrow). i-| lb. spinach (large leaves), t lb. sausage meat (or 6 oz. of veal, and 4 oz. pork finely minced and seasoned), i-V oz. butter, lemon. i gill of gravy, I tablespoonful meat glaze, 2 teaspoonfnls chopped parsley, 8-10 small slices of beef marrow, seasoning, tleurons of puff-paste. W'ash the spinach, remove the stems and any withered parts of the leaves, then blanch, and afterwards drain the spinach. Pre- pare the farce meat, if that be used in place of the sausage meat, and make up either into small ball shapes, adding 1-2 yolks of eggs and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Lay out on a board 5-6382 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. spinach leaves, and make np into ball shapes with the sausage or farce meat, being careful that the latter are well enclosed in spinach. Range the shapes thus obtained in a buttered saute - pan, season with salt and pepper, moisten with the gravy, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter on top. Cook this in the oven, covered, for about thirty minutes. Blanch the beef-marrow, and drain on a cloth,’^' then put in a baking-tin, and re-heat in the oven. Melt the meat glaze and remainder of butter together, add i teaspoonful parsley and lemon-juice, with this glaze the slices of marrow. Dish up the spinach in a suitably shaped dish, place a slice of marrow in each shape of spinach. Pour the remainder of gravy and glaze round the base of the dish, garnish with ileurons, and serve hot. Condoles aux Epinards {Spinach Gondolas). Pick and wash 2 or 3 lb. of spinach, blanch it, and cook it in very little water (salted) till tender, then drain and rub through a fine sieve. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, fry in it a shallot finely chopped, and stir in a scant tablespoonful of flour. Then add the spinach, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; stir till cpiite hot, and add half a gill of cream and a little gravy. Keep hot. Line 12 boat-shaped moulds with thinly rolled-out short crust or rough puff paste, fill them with rice, and bake to a golden brown. Take out the rice and fill them with the prepared spinach. Put a fancifully cut piece of hard-boiled egg on each end of the little boats, and a triangular shaped piece of baked nouille paste (to imitate sails) in the centre of the spinach. Dish up, and serve with the lamb brochettes. Souffles aux Pols nouveaux {Souffles of Green Peas). Rub 3 pints of cooked green peas through a sieve, incorporate with this puree 2 oz. of fresh butter, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 or 3 Mablespoonfuls well reduced bechamel sauce, and lastly the whites of 2 eggs whisked stiffly. A little sugar and salt should be added to season before mixing the whites of egg. Should the mixture not be green enough, add a little spinach puree or spinach greening. Butter 8 fluted timbale moulds, place a thin round of lean ham in fhe bottom of each mould, and fill np with the puree.38,^ VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTREES. then steam in the usual way. Uumould the souffle sha])es 011 a hot dish. Pour some hot Madere or demi-glace sauce round or over the souffles ; serve hot. SOUFFLES AUX POIS NOUVEAUX. Note.—Spinach, endive or lettuce soufflfe can be prepared and cooked in the same way. Macaroni a la Rivoli. i- lb. large Naples macaroni, i small terrine of foie-gras, i teaspoonful meat glaze, 2 eggs, frying-batter, and fat to fry. Boil the macaroni in salted water, when done, drain and cool them in cold water. Pound the foie-gras free from fat, and prejiare a light farce made from the foie-gras puree, the meat glaze, and the yolk of an egg, all well mixed, seasoned to taste, and rubbed through a sieve. Lay out the macaroni on a cloth to drain, put the farce in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and with it lill the macaroni. Poach them in a little stock in a saute-pan, take up, drain, and cool again. Next cut them into 3 in. or longer, if wished, egg and crumb them or dip in frying batter. Fry them in clarihed fat to a nice golden brown. Take up, drain, and dish up. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Note.—For crumbing use one-third of panurette, two-thirds of freshly made white breadcrumbs, and about a teaspoonful of grated parmesan cheese. Spaghetti a la Maltaise. Boil lb. of spaghetti, a kind of macaroni only very much smaller, until tender in salted water, drain well, and ])ut them back into the stewpan, add 2 oz. butter, and heat up thoroughly, then add by degrees 2 oz. grated cheese, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Skin 2 sheep’s kidneys, and cut into fine slices. C(jok, i.e. saute, them in butter over a l)risk lire, seasan with salt and paprika, and moisten with } pint tomato sauce. Cook for a fev'384 'J^HE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. minutes, and lastly add 6 finely chopped or sliced mushrooms, and heat up. Dish up the spaghetti on a deep round dish in the form of a border, dress the stewed kidney, etc., in the centre, sprinkle over a little hnely chopped parsley, and serve hot. Kniokis a la Romaine. 4 oz. semolina or llorador, \ pint milk, 4 pint of rich white stock, -J- a bay- leaf, 2 eggs, t pint bechamel sauce, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, i oz. butter, breadcrumbs. Put the milk and stock into a stewpan, and boil up with the bay-leaf, stir in the semolina or tlorador, and stir continuously over the fire till boiling, then add the butter and 2 yolks of eggs, and continue to stir for a few minutes longer. Spread this on a buttered dish or baking-dish, and let cool. Cut the mi.xture into rounds or ovals, and range them on a buttered hreproof dish. Spread a layer of bechamel sauce and grated cheese between each, and coat the surface completely with sauce when hnished dressing. Besprinkle with grated cheese and breadcrumbs, also a little oiled butter, and brown in the oven. Serve hot. Topinambours au Risotto {Jerusalem Artichokes with Risotto). 4 oz. butter, i oz. onion minced, 6 oz. rice (well picked), i pint white stock, 2 dessertspoonfuls meat glaze or Lemco, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 lb. Jerusalem artichokes, i small truffle, chopped finely, gill tomato pulp. Wash and peel the artichokes, put them in salted water acidu- lated with lemon-jitice for an hour, then cook them in seasoned water till tender. Drain well and toss them in butter, and keep them hot in a little stock enriched with meat glaze. Melt 3 oz. of butter in a stew-pan, fry in it the onions just long enough to blend, then add the rice. Stir for a few minutes over the fireVEGETABLE AND FA BIN AGE ENTREES. without browning, and add the stock. Ihjil gently for about forty minutes, then stir in the remainder of the meat glaze, the tomato pulp, grated cheese, and the truffle. When sufficiently reduced, fill up a buttered border mould and turn it out on to a round dish. Dress the artichokes in the centre, pour over a little tomat<; or brown sauce, and serve. Coupes de Concombre a I’Algerienne. 1 cucumber, 3 oz. cooked ham, i teaspoonful meat glaze, i gill bechamel sauce, V pimiento, i hard-boiled egg, 2 tablespooufuls curry sauce, 8 pre- served mushrooms, and chopped truflles. Cut an even-shaped cucumber into 8 pieces about id in. thick, and with a fluted paste-cutter stamp out each piece so as to remove the skin and obtain a neat shape. Place them in a buttered saute- pan with a gill of white stock. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about ten minutes, then take up the cucum- ber, stamp out the cen- • tre part of each piece, and put them on a wire sieve to drain. Chop the ham and pirn i e n t o, mix them with the curry sauce and the meat glaze. Fill the cucumber shapes with this, and place a mush- room head on top of each. Place the shapes in buttered china cassolettes or souffle cases with a little chopped truflle in the centre of each, and re-heat in the oven for a few minutes, then dish up, and serve. Riz a la Hongroise {Rice, Hungarian Style). Pick half a pound of best rice (do not wash it), put it into a stewpan with lid. Add 2 oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of paprika, and a teaspoonful of salt ; mix well, cover, and place in a hot oven for ten minutes, then add a handful of mushrooms cut into dice, moisten with a quart and a half of good chicken or mutton broth, and let co(jk slowly on the stove or in the oven from one to two hours. A very small bunch of savoury herbs can be added while the rice is cooking, but must be removed before it is served. Serve in little well-buttered ramakin or souffle cases. Concombre braise a la Moelle (Cncuinhcr with Beef Marrow). Peel and prepare a cucumber the same as for stuffing, cut it BB386 rilE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. iato 8 pieces of even size, scoop out the centre portion, and place in the cavity of each piece a round slice of beef marrow, and cover with a little ham or mush- room puree. Braise till tender, glaze the surface, dish up on small crou- tons with a little chop- ped truffle in centre. Gar- nish with slices of CONCOMBRE BRAISE A LA MOELLE . OliveS POUI' a little demi - glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Riz a la Polonaise {Rice, Polish Style). I- lb. Carolina rice, 2 oz. butter, i quart chicken or beef stock, 3 small shallots, I small onion stuck with 3 cloves, 4-6 small firm tomatoes, grated cheese, salt ami pepper. Pick the rice, but do not wash it, put it in a stewpan with the butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add the shallots previously peeled and chopped finely, and let brown a little, moisten with the stock or broth, acid onion and tomatoes, the latter peeled, cut into slices, season slowly, and cook for about an hour. A few minutes before serving add 2 oz. of grated gruyere or parmesan cheese, and remove the onion. Dress the rice in pyramid shape on a hot dish. Garnish with a few very thinly cut strips of red pimiento, and serve hot. (Eufs a la Printaniere {Eggs with Spying Vegetables). Butter 8 bouche moulds, and decorate the bottom of each with fancifully cut slices of cooked vegetables, such as carrots or turnijis, peas or French beans, etc. Break a fresh egg into each mould, add a dessertspoonful of cream, and poach them in the oven for about ten minutes. Prepare a rich white sauce, to which add I or 2 yolks of eggs, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Unmould the egg shapes, and dish up ; add a few drops of meat glaze, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil to the sauce, and pour this round the base of the dish. Garnish to taste, and serve hot. Darioles d’CEufs a la Crecy [Egg and Carrot Darioles). Line 8 small well buttered dariole moulds with finely cut round slices of cooked carrot. Shred very finely the red part of 2-3 young carrots, toss in butter over a quick fire, then cook in a387 VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTREES. little stock till tender, season, and chop iinely, or mb through a sieve. Beat np 4 fresh eggs, add to them the carnh pnree, also a tablespoonful of cream, and season to taste. Fill the prepared moulds with this, and poach them in a hot oven for about fifteen or twenty minutes. To serve, turn out the shapes on to croutons of fried bread, and range on a hot dish. Glaze over with tomato sauce enriched with a little meat glaze, and send to table immediately. Timbales de Tomates au Noix {Tomato and Nut Timbales). Prepare a savoury aspic jelly, richly flavoured and clarihed with tomat(jes. Line a number of very small timbale mcjulds with the prepared aspic, and place a sprig of chervil in the bottom of each, then fill the timbales with alternate layers of tomato slices (previously peeled and seeds removed) and walnut puree, with aspic between. Allow each layer to set before another is added. Keep on the ice till set, then turn out. Dish up, force a little whipped cream flavoured with grated horseradish in top of each, and garnish with finely shredded endive or other green salad. THE TRUNK OF A TREE HERE ILLUSTRATED, AROUND WHICH THE TOMATO AND NUT TIMBALES ARE RANGED, IS MADE OF BREAD AND CO.\TED OVER WITH CREAMED BUTTER COLOURED WITH MEAT GLAZE, THE RIND BEING SHAPED OR IMITATED WITH THE PRONGS OF A FORK. FINELY CHOPPED PISTACHIOS ARE SPRINKLED HERE AND THERE, AND THE CENTRE IS FILLED WITH A TOM.ATO MOUSSE.388 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Friandines aux Epinards. Prepare and cook in the usual way about a pound of spinach, rub it through a hue sieve. Melt an ounce of butter, and fry in it two huely-chopped shallots, add the spinach, sprinkle in. a dessert- spoonful of hour, stir well, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. If found too thick, add a tablespoonful of cream. Cook for ten minutes, and spread on a plate to cool. Roll out some puff-paste or rough puff-paste. Stamp out some rounds with a two-inch paste-cutter, wet the edges of half of them, and put about a dessertspoonful of spinach in the centre of each. Cover them with the other rounds of paste, and press down the edges neatly. Dip each in beaten egg ancl cover with panurette or ordinary bread- crumbs. Fry in hot fat or clarihed butter a golden colour. Drain them on a cloth or paper, and dish up in the form of a pyramid. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Cornets aux Petits Pois. Roll out some puff or rough paste one-eighth of an inch thick, cut it into even-sized strips, about an inch wide, and twist this round as many cornet moulds as may be required. Grease the moidds slightly, and wet the end of the edge of the paste a little, so as to fix it. Place them on a baking-sheet and bake in a fairly hot oven from hfteen to twenty minutes. When done remove the cornet-shaped pastry carefully from the moulds and put them on a sieve. Cook some freshly shelled peas in plenty of slightly salted water, containing a very small piece of soda and a sprig of green mint. When done, drain them carefully, and toss them in a saute-pan with a little butter. Add about a tablespoonful of white sauce and a pinch of castor sugar. Season with a little more salt, if needed, and a pinch of pepper. Mix with a small quantity of finely minced parsley. Re-heat the cornets, fill them carefully with the prepared peas. Sprinkle a little krona or paprika pepper on the open top of each. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Spaghetti a la Dieudonet. ■J- lb. spaghetti, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, J- veal kidney, ] pint well-reduced tomato sauce, i tablespoonful meat glaze or Lemco, 6 preserved mushrooms, sliced, chopped parsley, .salt, pepper, and papi ika. Boil the spaghetti till tender in salted water, drain well, and put them back into the stewpan. Add 2 oz. butter and heat up thoroughly, then by degrees add the grated cheese and a seasoning of white pepper. Skin the kidney and cut into fine slices, saute them in butter over a brisk fire, season with salt and paprika, and moisten with the sance. Cook for a few minutes, and lastly add the mnshrooms and the meat glaze, and re-heat. Dish up the spaghetti on a deep round dish in the form of a border, dress the stewed kidney, etc., in the centre, besprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot.3«9 VEGETABLE AND FARINAGE ENTRLES. Bordure de Noix e* Celeri a la Monaco {Border of II and Celery with Mayonnaise). I gill mayonnaise, J pint aspic jelly, i head white celery, \ ]iint shelled walnuts, 1 blade mace, i bay-leaf, i slice onion, i pint tomato pulp, i oz. gelatine (sheet), i teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, paprika, I French gherkin, a few tarragon leaves, and chillies for garnish. Mask a ])Iain border-mould (pint size) with a thin coating of tispic, decorate the side with fanciftdly-cnt chilli and tarragon leaves. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with enough liquid aspic jelly to make it set, and line the decorated mould with this. Put it in a cool place to set. Meanwhile put the walnuts in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add a little salt, the mace, bay-leaf, and onion, and boil for ten minutes or so. Drain them and put them in cold water, remove the skin and shake them gently in a clean cloth. Cut them into shreds. Dissolve the gelatine and add to the tomato pulp, season with pepper, salt, and half a teas})oonful of paprika, iiavour with the \’inegar, boil up, and strain. M’hen almost cold, mix with it about half the shredded walnuts, hll the border-mould with this preparation, and put the mould in a cool place until required. Wash and dry the celery, and cut the white part into julienne strips. Mix them in a basin with the remainder of the walnuts. Add pepper and salt to taste. M'hen ready for serving, unmould the border and dress on a round dish. Season the salad with mayonnaise, and place it in the centre of the dish, pile up high, sprinkle with a little chopped gherkin, and serve. A little green salad, lettuce, or endive, may be mixed with the celery and walnuts, if liked. In that case it should be cut into shreds or else torn into very small pieces. Macaroni aux Huitres {Macaroni with Oysters). Cook a quarter of a pound of spaghetti (macaroni) in stock or salted water, drain, and finish with tomato sauce, grated cheese, and the needed seasoning. Toss, some blanched oysters, eight to ten, in a little butter, and mix with the above. Dish up, and brown under the salamander, then serve. Tomates a TArgenteuille. Select about 8 or g even-sized roimd tomatoes (not over ripe), cut out the centre portion of each, then dip the tomatoes into boiling water and skin them carefully. Have ready a delicate ragout (nicely seasoned) of asparagus tips and veloutee sauce. Fill the tomatoes with this, place them on a baking sheet, be- sprinkle with a little oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, and serv^-e.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 390 CHAPTER XXII. HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. (For Cold Entrees, .see Chapter XXV.) AGNEAU—LAMB. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Bonaparte. 8 lamb cutlets, i oz. butter, a small onion, carrot, a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, i-J pint of white stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of creme de riz, ^ oz. meat glaze, i glass champagne, pepper and salt, mashed spinach for garnish, a gill of tomato sauce. Trim the cutlets neatly, put them in a sante-pan with the butter, fry a little on both sides, add sliced onion, carrot, bay-leaf, and parsley, season with pepper and salt. Moisten with the champagne or Chablis wine, and about a gill of stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Mix the creme de riz with a little cold stock, boil up a pint of the stock in a small ^ saucepan. Mix both together and stir until it boils, season to taste. Let it simmer for a few minutes, then pour into little cutlet-monlds slightly greased, or in one rofuid mould. Stand it in a cool place to set. 1/®' A Turn out and put a cutlet on each of these shapes. If the round mould is used it should be turned out, the rice.shape cut into slices, and trimmed into rounds the shape of cutlets. Dish the cutlets with a rice shape in a circular row, and keep warm. Strain the A CORRECTLY ghavy from the cutlets, take off the fat, put it in a TRIMMED .V saucepan with the meat glaze, and let it reduce until CUTLET... mask the cutlets. Have ready a puree of spinach nicely flavoured, put it in the centre of the cutlets, sauce round w'ith tomato sauce, and serve. The tomato sauce should be allowed to boil up in the saute-pan after the gravy is strained oft in order to impart the essence to the sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Cahors. 8 to 10 lamb cutlets (neatly pared), i oz. butter, 2 shallots, 3 truffles, 1 tablespoonful meat glaze, ^ gill sherry, teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, i whole egg, i gill tomato sauce, seasoning, breadcrumbs, clarified butter. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them lightly in i oz. butter, add the truffles finely chopped, moisten with the sherry, cover, and let it reduce well. Stir in the meat glaze and parsley, bind with the yolks of eggs, stir until it thickens, and put in a forcing-bag. Make an incision on one side of each cutlet through the whole of the width, but without cutting the sides, fill the cavity with the391 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. above mixture, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs ; repeat this again. P'ry slowly in claribed butter to a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, pour the tomato sauce, previously heated, round the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Creole. A neck of lamb, ^ lb. spinach puree, i egg, cream, salt, and pepper, 1 table- spoonful of bechamel sauce, i pig’s caul, i oz. butter, a little meat glaze, a border of risotto, tomato sauce. Pare the neck of lamb and cut live or six plump cutlets from it, llatten them a little, trim and shape neatly, and season with salt and pepper. Heat up the spinach, add to it the white sauce and an equal cjuantity of cream, reduce well. Lastly add half a beaten egg, and season to taste. Make an incision into the side of each cutlet by means of a small sharp-pointed knife, so as to hollow the centre of the meat. Put the spinach in a forcing-bag and hll the cavities made in the cutlets. Wrap each in a piece of pig’s canl, which must be hxecl on with a little beaten egg. Fry the cutlets over a quick fire to slightly brown the sides, and finish cooking in the oven, which will take about fifteen minutes in all. Take up, drain, and brush over with meat glaze. Dress on a border of risotto, and serve with tomato sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau, Marienbad. 8 to 9 well-trimmed lamb cutlets, 2 oz. butter, | pint tin champiguous, pint endive or chicoree puree, 4 oz. pounded lean lamb, 2 egg-yolks. For croutons ; demi-glace sauce, seasoning, 3 oz. vermicelli, 2 egg-yolks, gill bechamel, cooked asparagus tips for garnish. Flatten the cutlets lightly, saute one side of them in hot butter, and put them under press to cool. Meanwhile prepare a farce by chopping finely the preserved mushrooms, and aclding to it the endive puree, pounded meat, and egg-yolks. Season to taste, and mix thoroughly. Spread the cooked sides of the cutlets with this mixture. Place the cutlets, farced side uppermost, in the saute- pan with the butter, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Prepare croutons by boiling in slightly salted water till tender the vermicelli. Drain and mix with enough bechamel to form a thick puree, to this add the two yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, cook for a few minutes, and spread on a plate. W’hen cold, stamp out as many cutlet-shaped croutons as there are cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in deep fat. Drain well, and dress a cutlet on each. Dish up in the form of a crown. F'ill the centre with cooked asparagus tips, seasoned and tossed in a little fresh butter. Pour some demi-glace sauce round, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau grillees {Gnlled Lamb Cutlets). Cut eight or ten lamb cutlets from the best end of a neck, and pare and trim them neatly. Place them on or between a gridiron, over or in front of a good clear fire, and cook them for about ten minutes, during this time the cutlets should be turned at least four times, using the steak tongs for the purpose. Season the392 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cutlets with salt and pepper. Adjust a paper frill on each cutlet- bone, dish them up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes, fill the centre with nicely cooked and well seasoned green peas, pour a little hot gravy round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Malmaison. Cut as many lamb cutlets as may be recpiired, trim and pare them neatly, season with pepper and salt, and egg and crumb them. Fry them in clarihed butter, and drain. Dish them up in a circle on a bed of potato puree, previously baked [au gyatin) in the oven. Garnish the dish with three distinct coloured purees, i.c. lentil puree, green pea puree, and potato puree, also with small stuffed aud baked tomatoes. Seud to table with demi-glace sauce, well-flavoured with lemon-juice, Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Lion d’Or. <S nice lanilj cutlets—centre out of neck, i small foie-gras pate, i piece lamb leaf-fat, 6 oz. veal forcemeat (p. 177), t mu.=hroo,ms, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, breadcrumbs, soubise sauce, and demi-glace. Trim and pare the cutlets, slit the side of each to the bone, but without })arting. Prepare a puree with the foie-gras, fill the openings made with this, insert a slice of truflle ancl mushroom here and there, close up and fry the cutlets a little in butter. Season the raw forcemeat, mix with remainder of foie-gras puree, truffles, and mushrooms finely chopped. Cover each cutlet completely with this mixture, wrap up in thin leaf-fat or pig-caul, egg, crumb, and fry very carefully in a saute-pan containing enough clarified butter or lard to cover them. When done, drain, dish up in a circle, fasten frills on bones, put soubise sauce in the centre, and serve demi-glace round the base of the dish. Brochettes d’Agneau a la Turbigo. Bone a good-sized loin of lamb, including part of the neck if necessary, cut it into choifs, about nine will be required for a full service, flatten them lightly and trim neatly. Skewer each, brush over with butter, season with salt and pepper, then grill them carefully in front or over a good bright fire, allowing about six393 HOT MEAT ENTIHiES, ETC. sauce. minutes for each side. Heat up iu butter 9 small slices of natural foie-gras, season with paprika and salt. Have ready a gill of fairly stiff allemande sauce mixed with sufficient pimieuto butter to give it a red tint, also a gill of flageolet puree. Dish up the brochettes, removing the skewers, range them in an oblong entree dish on a duchesse potato border, put a slice of foie-gras on each chop, coat the foie-gras with the prepared sauce, and force out a rosette of flageolet purcffi in the centre of each. Pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Mange. These are nicely pared lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed in grated parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, fried in butter and clressed on a border of savoury rice mixed with hnely chopped truffle. The centre of the dish is garnished with a ragout of cocks’ combs, sweetbi'ead slices, and truffles, and a well-seasoned tomato sauce is poured round the base of the dish. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Richelieu. 8 to 10 lamb cutlets, Richelieu garnish (p 344), 2 oz. butter, 6 to 8 small artichoke bottoms, pint cooked asparagus points, i truffle, salt and pepjier, demi-glace sauce. Trim, flatten, and pare the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, clarify the butter, put in the cutlets, and cook over a quick lire. See that each is nicely browned. Take np the cutlets, clrain off the fat, and dress them in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish. Put a paper frill on each cutlet- bone. The artichoke bottoms and asparagus points must be heated beforehand, toss the latter in a little butter, and season to taste. Put the Richelieu garnish, previously heated, in the centre of the dish. Fill each artichoke bottom with asparagus points, arrange these neatly round the cutlets. Sprinkle on top of each a little chopped truffle, pour some hot demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Villeroi {Breaded Lamb Cutlets). 8 good-sized lamb cutlets, 2 oz. fresh butter. pint well-reduced bechamel or allemande sauce, i egg, panurette, cracknel biscuits, seasoning, parsley, frying-fat. cucumber sauce. Trim, flatten, and pare the cutlets, season both sides with salt and pepper, put in a saute-pan with two ounces of melted butter, and fry a light brown on both sides. Drain, and place them be- tween two tin sheets, with a weight on top. Wffien cold, immerse the cutlets in lukewarm bechamel or allemande sauce, so as to completely coat them. Place them on a wire tray and let cool. Crush finely a few cracknel biscuits, roll the cutlets in this, dip them in beaten egg, and crumb with panurette. Keep the bones of the cutlets perfectly clean. Fry a nice colour in hot fat. Drain, dish up iu a circle, fill the centre with fried parsley, put small paper frills on the bones, and send to table with a boat of cucumberTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 394 Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Soubise. I breast of lamb, 2 quarts stock, i bunch parsley, i bay-leaf, i carrot, I turnip, I onion, 2 cloves, gill allemande sauce or veloutee sauce, salt and pepper, 1 egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, soubise sauce. Trim the breast of lamb, cut it in two, blanch it, put it in a stewpan with the stock (boiling). Let it boil np, skim, and the prepared vegetables, etc., and cook gently till the meat is quite tender. Take up the breast, remove the bones while hot, and place the meat flat under weight. When cold trim, removing all the hard skin and gristle, and cut into convenient pieces. Season with pepper and salt. Coat each with allemande or veloutee sauce. Dip each piece in beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, and dress the pieces on a dish in the form of a circle. Put the soubise sauce in the centre, and serve hot. Filets d’Agneau a la Spadacini {Lamb Fillets). I neck of lamb (best end), -] lb. cooked savoury rice flavoured with saffron, I small bread croute (corkshape), i artichoke bottom, i truffle, i egg, 2 oz. clarified butter, flour, seasoning, Spadacini sauce, denii-glace sauce. Cut the meat from the bones of the neck, trim off the super- fluous fat, pare neatly, cut into eight pieces, flatten them, and shape into round fillets. Fix a cork-shaped fried bread crouton ,011 the centre of a round entree dish. Arrange the cooked rice round it as neatly as possible, insert a silver skewer (hatelet) with the fond d’artichaut and truffle previously fixed on. Keep the dish in a warm place. Dip the prepared fillets in beaten egg, then in seasoned flour, and fry a golden coloifr in clarified butter. Dress them neatly round the hatelet on the dish, put a tablespoonful of Spadacini sauce on each fillet, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Navarin d’Agneau en Casserole {French Lamb Stew). I loin of lamb, i spring cabbage (blanched), 12 button onions, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. butter, i pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small chops, trim off the skin and superfluous fat. Melt the butter in an earthenware fireproof casserole, put in the lamb chops, and fry lightly on each side. Take them up and place on a plate. Peel the onions and fry them a nice golden colour in the butter. Divide the cabbage (previously washed, trimmed, and blanched) into eight portions, and wrap each into a thin slice of bacon. Pour the butter off the onions, and place the lamb chops, cabbage, bacon, and onions in alternate layers in the earthenware pan. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with the sauce, cover the pan with its lid, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Just before serving, skim off the fat from the surface, and send the dish (casserole) to table placed on a dish with a folded napkin. Noisettes d’Agneau a I’Union {Lamb Fillets). I loin of lamb, 8 fonds of artichoke, 2 oz. butter, 18 to 20 small fresh button mushrooms, i tablespoonful meat glaze, or i teaspoonful of Lemco (Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat), i gill stock, i teaspoonful finely chopped parsley, J teaspoonful chopped chervil, teaspoonful chopped chive, a few leaves of chopped tarragon, lemon, salt and pepper, demi-glace sauce.HOT MEAT ENTltfZES, ETC. 395 Remove the meat from the loin and trim into a neat fillet, paring off the snperliuous fat. Cut the meat into about eight noisettes (fillets), shape each nicely. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, and cook the noisettes over a quick hre till done (great care must be taken not to over-cook them), season them before or after cooking. Heat the artichoke fonds in the broth, chop the mushrooms, previously washed and peeled, saute them in butter, add the lemon-juice, meat glaze or extract, and the chopped herbs. Season to taste, and cook for a few minutes. Fill the artichokes with this. Dress the noisettes on a hot dish, place an artichoke fond on top of each, garnish with lleurons or croutons of bread, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Noisettes d’Agneau au Chou {Braised Lamb Chops). Procure eight to ten small lamb chops, free them from skin, fat, and bone, toss in butter, and braise them with small spring cabbages made up into small rolls ; serve with sauce demi-glace. Queues d’Agneau a la Russe {Lambs’ Tails d la Russe). 4 or 5 lambs' tails, i glass Chablis, pint stock, i clove of garlic, i bay- leaf, r sprig of thyme and i of basil, 2 cloves, i small bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, frying-batter, and frying-fat. Wipe the tails with a damp cloth, cut them into small joints, blanch, and drain. Cook until tender in the stock and a little water, adding the wine, savoury herbs, parsley, etc. Season to taste, allow them to cool in the stock. Chop a little parsley, and mix with the frying-batter, drain the pieces of tail in a cloth, dip them in the prepared batter, and fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with hot tomato sauce. Ris d’Agneau a la Voltaire {Lamb’s Bread d la Voltaire). 8 lambs’ breads of good size, 8 cooked aidichoke bottoms (fonds d’arti- chauts), I small onion, i carrot, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, i bouquet garni, I- pint rich stock, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce, 3 egg-yolks, seasoning, I oz, parmesan cheese (grated), i oz. butter. Trim the breads, blanch, drain, and pare them neatly. Prepare a mirepoix with the onion, carrot, bacon, and bouquet, put this in a saute-pan, place the lambs’ breads upon it, moisten with stock, season with salt and pepper, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and braise in the oven from thirty to forty minutes, basting occasionally. When done, take up the breads and glaze them. Strain the stock and reduce it a little, remove all fat and add a liaison of egg-yolks with two tablespoonfnls of bechamel sauce. As soon as it begins to thicken pass it through a hne sieve and keep hot. Place the artichoke bottoms on a buttered sairte-pan, into each put a teaspoonful of the prepared sauce, put the lambs’ breads upon this, and sauce over well with the above sauce, sprinkle well with grated parmesan cheese, as well as with oiled butter. Bake in a very hot oven for six minutes, dish up, and serve with a suitable sauce.396 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES OF LAMB. Blanquette d’Agneau a la Romaine.—A white stew of lamb (shoulder and l)reast pieces), enriched with egg-yolks, lemon-juice, and meat glaze ; garnished ith small baked timbales of puree of artichoke bottoms. Chartreuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, rolled, stewed in rich white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a cylindrical mould alternately in rows with braised green lettuce-stalks cooked “ au bain-marie,” and served with demi-glace sauce. Cotelettes d’Agneau.—Lamb cutlets. — a la Constance.—Breaded lamb cutlets fried in butter, with financiere ragout as garnish in centre of dish. — aux Concombres.—Broiled or grilled lamb cutlets, with slightly fried or braised cucumbers cut in cubes. — a la Cussy.—Breaded and fried lamb cutlets ; served with veloutee sauce, mixed with chopped ox-tongue and mushrooms. — a la Duchesse.—Braised lamb cutlets, masked with duxelle sauce, egged, crumbed, fried. Dished up on a vegetable border, with a puree of green peas in centre, served with sauce Supreme. — aux Epinards.—Grilled or fried lamb cutlets, dished up with spinach in centre of dish and served with gravy. — a la Jardiniere.—Breaded and fried lamb cutlets; served with stewed spring vegetables in centre of dish. — a la Longuet.—Partially cooked lamb cutlets, pressed, and coated with Villeroi sauce mixed with mushroom and soubise puree, then egged and crumbed and fried in butter ; garnished with mushroom heads ; sauce demi-glace. — d’Agneau a la Maltaise.—Fried lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed, served with Maltaise sauce, composed of veloutee sauce, sherry, lemon- and orange-juice, and finely shred orange-peel. — a la Princesse.—Par-fried lamb cutlets, pressed, coated with chicken farce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg ; when set, egged, crumbed, and fried ; dressed round a puree of green peas or asparagus ; sauce Mousseline. — d’Agneau a la Robert.—Lamb cutlets, breaded and fried in butter, served with brown onion sauce. — a la Royale.—Grilled lamb cutlets dressed en couronne, with foie-gras puree and tomato pulp (mousse) in centre ; garnished with pommes soufllees ; sauce Madere. — d’Agneau a la Sainte-Menehould. — Lamb cutlets stuffed from the sides with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley ; then braised in the oven and served with Italian sauce. — a la Singarat.—Grilled or broiled lamb cutlets, served with finely shredded ox-tongue and onion puree in centre ; sauce demi-glace. — aux truffes.—Grilled or broiled lamb cutlets ; served with truffleHOT MEAT ENTRI^ES, ETC. 397 Epaule d'Agneau a la Chevet.—Ironed, rolled, and larded .shoulder of laml:>, braised and glazed. Served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, mingled with cho]>ped shallots and i)arsley. — a la Montmorency.—Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, larded and braised, served with a garniture of cocks’ combs, mush- room heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloutee sauce. — a la Paysanne.—Boned shoulder of lamb braised, served with a garni- ture of stewed sliced carrots, turnijis, and peeled tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Polonaise.—Boned shoulder of lamb, l>raised, sliced, dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes ; sauced over w'ith a rich brown sauce, sprinkled over with brown breadcrumbs, egged, and , browned in the oven. Served with poached eggs on top of bordure. Epigrammes.—Boned breast of lamb or mutton, braised or boiled, pressed, and cut into small portions (collops) ; denotes also a dish of alternate cutlets, cut from the neck and the breast, according to , the style adopted. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Bearnaise.—Small lamb chops, boned, flattened, pared, and sauted in butter, when cold immersed in veloutee sauce, and dipped in eggs and breadcrumbs. They are then fried in clarified butter or drij)ping, dished up and served with bearnaise sauce in the centre of the epigrammes. — d’Agneau a la Dauphine.—Partly-cooked lamb collops or fillets, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolk of eggs, thickly bread-crumbed, and fried in butter. Served with a puree of green peas and suit- able sauce. — d’Agneau a la Macedoine.—Lamb collops, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with a collection of finely shaped carrots and turnips, French beans, and green jieas. Sauce demi-glace. — d’Agneau a la Perigord.—Fried or braised slices of breast of lamli stewed in truffle sauce. Filet d’Agneau a la Venaison.—Rolled boned loin of lamb, jiickled in marinade, flavoured with cloves, funiper berries, pepper, and savoury herbs. Braised in the usual way, and served with brown sauce mixed with a little sour cream. Filets d’Agneau a la Villeroi.—Braised lamb fillets, masked with stiff allemande sauce, egged, crumbed m bread and grated cheese. Baked in a quick oven {an gratin), and served with tomato sauce. Poitrine d’Agneau a la Turque.—Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with sausage-meat, liraised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, slightly flavoured with saffron powder, sauced over with demi-glace or a mild curry sauce. — farcie a la Very.—Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with veal forcemeat and braised, served with French beans, sauted or tossed in butter. Serve with demi-glace sauce. Langues d’Agneau a la Duxelle.—Boiled sheep’s tongues, cut into halves and spread over with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, butter, and egg-yolks. Dressed on a dish, sauced over with duxelle sauce, and baked in the oven {gratiii style).THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 39^ OREILLES D’AGNEAU LAMBS’ EARS. Oreilles d’Agneau farcies.—Lambs’ ears, stuffed with liver farce or chicken farce, fried or braised, and served with brown sauce. — frites, sauce tomate.—Braised or fried lambs’ ears with tomato sauce. — gratinees.—Stewed lambs’ ears sauced over, breaded, and baked. — a rindienne.—Curried lambs’ ears with boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Braised lambs’ ears with Italian sauce. MOUTON MUTTON. Carbonades de Mouton a la Nantaise. 3 or 4 lb. best end of neck of mutton or a piece of loin, i carrot, i turnip, I small onion, i bouquet garni, pint Espagnole sauce, 2 oz. butter, i glass port, 24 small stuffed onions, ^ pint green peas (cooked), salt, pepper, larding bacon. Bone the meat, pare off all the fat, cut into quarter-inch-thick slices, flatten them a little, trim, and lard with strips of fat bacon. Prepare the vegetables, cut carrot, turnip, and onion into slices, and put in a saute-pan with the butter and bouquet, season and broil a few minutes over a quick hre, put in the larded fillets, let brown slightly on both sides, drain off the fat, and add half a pint of sauce and a glass of port wine. Cover and cook slowly in the oven for twenty minutes, take up the fillets, drain, and dish up in a row on a small border of mashed potatoes or puree of peas. Free the sauce from fat, strain into a small stewpan, add the remainder of Espagnole, boil up, and moisten the stuffed onions, previously prepared, with this sauce. Dress the latter with the green peas in alternate rows round the base of the dish. Sauce over a little, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Bretonne. 6 cutlets cut from the best end of a neck of mutton, 2 small onions, ^ pint well-cooked haricot beans, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, brown sauce. Trim and pare the cutlets neatly, fry them in a saute-pan with the butter, turn them frequently to brown both sides, take np, strain, and keep hot. Mince the onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter left from the cutlets, pour off some of the butter and put in the haricot beans. Cook these together for about ten minutes, stir frequently, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little brown sauce, and rub through a wire sieve. Re-heat, heap up in the centre of a dish, dress the cutlets round the puree, and serve with some rich brown sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Byron. Cut, trim, and flatten six or more large mutton cutlets, insert in equal proportion with a larding needle, across the lean part, some strips of raw ham and larding bacon. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with the trimmings (but no fat), a small slice of carrot,399 HOT MEAT ENTRI'ES, ETC. half an onion stuck with a clove, and a slice of parsley root or celery. Add a little mntton stock, season with pepjjer and salt, and allow to cook slowly for about an honr. A’hen done, drain the cutlets, press them between two boards, and let them cool. Add a gill of Espagnole sauce to the stock, reduce well, and strain. Add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley and three tarragon- leaves to the sauce, immerse the cutlets in this, and let cool again. Dip in beaten egg and milk, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat or butter. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a circle. Have ready a ragout of sheep’s kidneys, fill the centre with same, put a few warm green peas on top, fasten paper frills on the bones, and sen’c. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Druard. Cut and pare eight mutton cutlets, season, and fry them lightly in butter. Let them get cold and cover them with a salpicon made as follows : Cut into small dice 4 oz. cold chicken, 6 champignons, 4 oz. lean cooked ham, i truffle, put this in a stewpan, and moisten with 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls of veloutee sauce, when hot add 3 to 4 yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire till the eggs commence to set. Mask the cutlets on both sides with this. Egg and crumb them twice, fry to a golden colour in clarified fat, ancl drain. Arrange the cutlets in a circle with fried parsley in the centre, and serve with a sauce-boat of Chateaubriand sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton au Naturel {Plain Mutton Cutlets). Procure the best end of a neck of mntton, saw off the upper part of the rib-bones, so as to leave the bones of the cutlets about three inches long. Saw off the spine-bone close to the end of fhe ribs, cut or trim off the flat bones adhering to the thick end of the neck, cut slantwise into cutlets. Elatten and pare them neatly, cut off the skin on the side of each bone, scrape the ends of the bones, season with pepper and salt, brush over with oiled butter, and grill, or melt about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlets when hot, and broil on both sides over a brisk fire. Dish up and serve with plain gravy. Cotelettes de Mouton aux Petits Pois [Mutton Cutlets with Green Peas). Cut a best end of neck of mutton into cutlets, trim, flatten, and pare them. Season with pepper and salt, mix a plateful of breaclcrumbs wifh an ounce of finely-chopped lean ham, dip the cutlets in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Melt about 2 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, cook the cutlets to a nice golden brown, and drain them. Dish up in a circle on a small bed of mashed potatoes and peas. Pill the centre with cooked green peas, pour a little gravy or sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise. Proceed to cook the cutlets in the same manner as in the fore- going recipe. Dish up in a circle on a very thin border of mashed potatoes. Sauce round with demi-glace or brown sauce, well400 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. reduced. Put some onion pnree or soubise sauce, piled up in the centre, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Pompadour. 6 or 8 neatly-pared mutton cutlets, 2 oz. butter, gill soubise sauce, i gill pompadour sauce, } pint macedoine vegetables, i egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, fry slightly in‘butter, drain, and place between two boards to press. Coat both sides of the cutlets with well-reduced cold soubise sauce. Egg and crumb twice. Fry slowly in clarihed fat or butter, drain, and dish up in a circle. Heat up the macedoine of vegetables with a little pompadour sauce, season, put in the centre of the dish, and serve. Lamb or pork cutlets are served in the same style. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Prince de Galles. 4 to 6 mutton cutlets, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 3 oz. ham, 2 yolks of eggs, I large pig’s caul, 2 small shallots, 2 tomatoes, chopped parsley, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, i whole egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, sauce. Trim the cutlets neatly, make an incision at the side of each cntlet with a small knife so as to slit the meat without making a wide opening. Pound the veal or rabbit meat and ham (freed from fat, skin or gristle), when line incorporate the yolks of eggs, and a little cream if found too stiff, season well, and rub through a sieve. Put the farce in a cornet or forcing-bag, and press the farce into the cavity of each cutlet. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Heat the butter in a saute-pan, and fry each side of the cutlets just for a minute or so to brown, take up, and let cool. Cut the tomatoes into slices, allowing one neat slice for each cutter. Peel and chop the shallots, and fry a little in the butter wherein the cutlets were partially cooked, also broil the sliced tomatoes, place one slice on each cutlet, sprinkle over some parsley, and a very little of the shallots. Wrap them separately in pieces of caul, the ends of which may, if liked, be moistened with a little white of egg, egg and crumb them carefully and neatly, fry them in hot fat (lard is preferable) for about ten minutes, take up, drain, and dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. The dish may be garnished with macedoine of vegetables or green peas. Serve hot with brown, tomato or piquante sauce. Note.—The cutlets must be trimmed so as to remove all or nearly all the fat and skin. Instead of frying the cutlets in deep fat, they can be placed in a well-buttered pan and be cooked in the oven, when about fifteen minutes should be allowed. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Princesse. Trim ten to twelve small mutton cutlets in the usual way, fry them a little in butter, press between two baking-sheets, when cold, cover one side of them with a thin layer of chicken forcemeat (p. 178), mixed with finely-minced mushrooms and trnfiies. Dip them in stiffly reduced Madere sauce, place them on the ice to set the sauce, dip them in egg and crumbs, fry in clarified401 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. butter, and strain on a cloth. Dish up in circular form, lill the centre of the dish with cooked asparagus points (mixed with a few fresh peas if desired), sauce round with Perigord sauce, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Proven(?aIe. Prepare the cutlets as before, oil them slightly with salad oil. Broil them on one side only, and put them on a "dish to get cold. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Spread the cooked side thickly with puree a la Proven^ale (p. 169), cover with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese. Put one ounce of butter in a saute-pan, when hot lay in the cutlets raw side down- wards, baste the surface with oiled butter, and cook in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up in a circle, garnish the centre with small rounds of potatoes (pommes Parisienne) {see Vegetable Chapter), pour round some demi-glace, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Reforme {Mutton Cutlets, Reform Style). 6 to 8 neatly cut and trimmed mutton cutlets, a handful of fresh bread- crumbs, I tablespoonful finely-chopped ham, i slice of ham, i raw egg, I hard-boiled egg, 4 French gherkins, i truffle, 6 preserved mushrooms, a small carrot (cooked), i oz. lard, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, Rcforme or pepper sauce. Flatten the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat, pare off some of the fat, and free the bones from skin (about an inch down). Season lightly with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and cover well with a mixture of breadcrumbs and chopped ham. Shape them neatly and put them on a plate till required. Cut the slice of ham, the white of egg, gherkins, truffle,, and mushrooms into oblong shreds of even size, put them in a stewpan with a little stock and a small piece of fresh butter. Season with a pinch of pepper, and keep hot. Melt the remainder of butter and the lard in a saute- or frying-pan, when hot, put in the cutlets and fry a nice light brown colour. Drain, arrange them in a circle, on a hot dish, put the shreds of vegetables, etc., in the centre, pour some Reforme or pepper sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Riche. 6 or 8 mutton or lamb cutlets, i pig’s caul, i oz. butter, liver farce, i truffle, 1 egg, breadcrumbs, fat to fry, pepper, salt, sauce Perigueux. Trim and shape the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, melt in a saute-pan i oz. butter, fry the cutlets lightly, leaving them quite underdone. Drain, press between two tins, when cold pare and trim neatly. Have ready some liver farce, chop the truffles finely and mix with it. Cover each side of the cutlet with the farce, wrap separately in pig’s caul, egg and crnmb (twice, if neces- sary), shape neatly, and place in a wire basket. Fry them to a golden colour in hot fat or lard, strain, dish up, and serve with Perigueux sauce. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Strasbourgeoise {Mutton Cutlets, Strasbourg Style). 8 ueatly-trimmed and pared mutton cutlets, i small terriue foie-gras (No. 12 size), I shallot, gill brown or Espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, 2 oz. butter, I egg, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. CCTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 402 Heat the butter in a saute- or frying-pan, put in the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, fry cpxickly to brown each side without cooking through. Take up and drain. Free the foie-gras from the lard usually found on the top, cut it into small pieces, and pound in a mortar. Peel, chop, and fry the shallot in the butter left in the pan in which the cutlets were cooked, add both shallot and butter to the foie-gras, mix thoroughly, adding a little brown sauce to form a smooth puree or farce. Season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread one side of each cutlet with a thick layer of this farce, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in very hot fat. Drain, dish up, and pour hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Talleyrand. 6 to 8 mutton cutlets, 4 to 6 oz. cooked chicken freed from skin and bone, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 shallots, ^ gill white sauce, 4 preserved mushrooms, seasoning, I egg, breadcrumbs, i oz, butter, frying-fat, demi-glace sauce. Trim and pare the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, partially cook them in a saute-pan with the butter, and place them on a dish to cool. Pound the meat of the chicken until smooth, add the yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful of sauce, a little nutmeg, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Chop the mushrooms finely, also peel and chop the shallots, and fry the latter a golden colour in the pan in which the cutlets were par-cooked. Add the mushrooms, stir over the fire for a few seconds, and mix with the chicken puree. If found necessary, a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs and a tablespoonful of white sauce can be added to the puree. Mask the cutlets completely with the puree, coat them carefully with beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Fry a golden brown in hot fat, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up in a row or in a circle, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Filets de Pre-Sale aux Primeurs {Fillets of Mutton or Lamb with Spring Vegetables). I neck of Southdown mutton or lamb, \ lb. veal and chicken liver, J pint rich stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, gill cream, i white of egg, 10 cup mush- rooms, I small glass Marsala, garniture of cucumber, asparagus, flageolets, young carrots and turnips, pint demi-glace sauce, i gill tomato sauce or pulp, meat glaze, seasoning, croute of fried bread as basis for dishing. Cut the meat neatly from the bones, pare, trim, and divide it into fillets, season with salt and pepper, fry lightly in a saute-pan containing 2 oz. of melted butter, then take up and press the fillets. When cold trim each hllet neatly and cover one side with a light farce made with finely-pounded veal, chicken livers, cream, and egg white. Place a star or crescent-shaped slice of truffle in the centre of each fillet, range them in a fireproof stoneware pan con- taining the stock, cover with a buttered paper and cook gently for fifteen minutes. Scoop out the vegetables into pea or olive shapes, and cook them separately in salted water, drain them, and keep hot in a little stock enriched with glaze, season with a pinch of castor sugar and better. Wash and peel the mushrooms, andhot meat ENTRIlES, etc. 403 cook them in butter in the oven for about ten minutes. Fix the croute of fried bread on an oblong dish, and dress on it the cooked (illets, .glaze or brush over with liquid meat glaze, arrange the FILETS DE PRE-SALE AU.\ PRIMEURS. mushrooms neatly on each side, Filing them with the various kinds of prepared vegetables. Blend the brown, demi-glace, and tomato sauces together, add the Marsala, and re-heat, pour a little over the hllets, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Filets de Mouton a la Tyrolienne. About 3 lb. best end of a neck of mutton, 4 small even-sized tomatoes, 12 button onions, i tablespoonful of chopped parsley, i gill of sweet oil, -.V gill Orleans vinegar, i minced shallot, i bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, salt, 2 oz. ham, i gill demi-glace sauce, i gill stock, i oz. butter, i egg, bread- crumbs, frying-fat. Remove the meat from the bones of the neck of mutton, trim off’ some of the fat, cut it into eight nice fillets, and lay them in a marinade of oil, vinegar, shallot, bay-leaf, garlic, coarsely-chopped parsley, and salt, for twelve hours, turning them from time to time. Cut the tomatoes in halves, and squeeze out a little of the pulp. Fry the button onions a golden colour in the butter, and drain off the butter. Add the stock, boil quickly, skim well, and braise in the oven until done ; the stock should, by the time the onions are done, be reduced so as to glaze them completely. Put the butter drained from the onions in the sante-pan, place in the tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and fry gently for a few minutes. Dry the hllets with a cloth, egg and crumb them, fry them gently in hot fat to a golden brown, and arrange them neatly in a row in the centre of an oblong dish. Have ready the ham, hnely chopped, moistened, and warmed in a little brown sauce. Put a dessertspoonful of ham in each half of tomato, place a button onion on top of each. Pour the demi-glace sauce round the dish, and serve. The demi-glace should be well reduced, and have a tablespoonfnl of the marinade incorporated during the process of reducing.404 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CERVELLES—SHEEP’S OR LAMBS’ BRAINS. Cervelles a la Dreux [Sheep’s Brains with Mushrooms). 4 sheep’s brains, a tiny bunch of parsley, some mushroom trimmings, I onion, 4 yolks of eggs, i V oz. panade or \ gill well-reduced white sauce, I oz. butter, paprika, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, 18 preserved mushrooms, Madere sauce. W^ash the brains several times in salted water, remove the skin and wash a second time in fresh water. Peel and slice the onion, put it, with the brains, parsley, and fresh mushroom trimmings, in a stewpan half filled with water, let them boil for about five minutes, then drain carefully, and rub the whole through a wire sieve into a basin. Put the panade or sauce into a mortar and work in the yolks of eggs, add this to the brain puree, stir well, and season to taste with a pinch each of pepper, paprika, salt, and nutmeg. Butter eight to ten small dariole moulds, and fill with the prepared puree. Poach about ten minutes in a saute-pan containing boiling water. W'hen done, turn on to a hot dish, arrange in a circle, pile the pre- served mushrooms, previously heated in brown sauce (Madere sauce), in the centre of the dish, pour some hot sauce over and round the darioles, and serve. Cervelles a la Rosita.—Small croustades of fried bread with half a poached lamb’s brain in each, sauced over with Mornay sauce, sprinkled with parmesan, and baked; dished in circle with fine macaroni, and shredded trufties in centre of dish. — au Beurre noir.—Blanched lambs’ brains, boiled and drained, with nut-brown butter poured over. — en coquilles.—Sheeps’ Inains stewed in white sauce, baked, and served in shells. — frites.—Parboiled sheep’s brains, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Blanched sheep’s brains stewed in white sauce with chopped parsley. — en Matelote.—Braised sheep’s or lambs’ brains with a led wine sauce, served with small dice of broiled bacon and glazed button onions. Beignets de Cervelles a la Turque.—Sheep’s or lambs’ brains parboiled, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried, and served w'ifh tomato sauce. Irish Stew [Ragout a 1’Irlandaise). yVbout 3 lb. neck of mutton, 4 lb. potatoes, i large onion, 12 blanched button onions, li pint stock, salt and pepper, chopped parsley. Cut the neck, into convenient pieces, trim off some of the fat, wash, peel, and slice the potatoes, peel and slice the onion, peel the button onions, and blanch. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, put a layer of meat over that, season with pepper and salt, strew over a few' slices of onion, repeat until the meat is used up, interspersing the button onions. Cover the topHOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. 405 with a layer of potatoes, add the stock, let it simmer for about two hours. This stew should not be skimmed, as the fat will be absorbed by the potatoes ; any scum on the top before it commences to simmer should, of course, be removed. When done, dish np neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. The stew, properly cooked, should not look watery. A tea- spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup may be added when the flavour is liked. Ragout de Mouton {Haricot Mutton). 3 lb. loin of mutton, 4 oz. butter, i oz. Hour, 2 pints stock, 2 gills haricot beans, 2 carrots, 8 to lO small button onions, i bouquet garni, a clove of garlic, 2 turnips, salt and pepper, \ glass claret. C-ut the meat into neat pieces, pare off the skin and fat, fry the pieces in the butter, let them brown, then drain. Prepare the vegetables, cut the carrots into olive shapes, and the turnips like pigeons’ eggs, peel the onions, fry each lot in the butter until well browned, and drain. Pour off some of the butter, put in the flour, fry a nut-brown colour, then add the stock, claret, bouquet (clove of garlic must be first fried a little), boil up whilst stirring. Skim, put in the meat, cook for about half an hour, add the haricot beans and fried vegetables, season to taste, and simmer gently till tender. When ready, dress the meat in the centre of a dish, surround it with groups of vegetables, reduce the sauce a little, and strain carefully over all. Rognons de Mouton a la Chinoise. 6 small sheep’s kidneys, 6 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, ^ pint cooked asparagus points, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel or veloutee sauce, chopped parsley, i gill tomato sauce, gill of oil, pepper and salt. Skin and wipe the kidneys. Split each without dividing entirely, and fasten on skewers. Season with pepper and salt. Melt one ounce of butter, and coat the kidneys thoroughly on both sides. Broil them over a clear fire from six to eight minutes. In the meantime put the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the asparagus points, toss over the fire till hot, moisten with the white sauce, and add a little pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley. Fry the yolks of eggs separately, in hot oil, and drain. Take up the kidneys, put a tablespoonful of asparagus points in the centre of each, place the fried yolks on top, dish up, pour round some hot tomato sauce, and serve. Rognons sautes en Caisses {Sheep's Kidneys in Cases). 4 large sheep's kidneys, i shallot, i^- oz. butter, i dessertspoonful (level) flour, I gill rich brown stock or gravy, i small glass Madeira, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 8 rounds of fried bread to fit the bottoms of eight china ramequin cases. Immerse the kidneys in boiling water for a few seconds, remove the skins, split in halves, and slice them as finely as possible. Season with pepper and salt. Peel and chop or mince finely the shallot, fry in hot butter, add the sliced kidneys, toss frequently for about five minutes. Sprinkle over the flour, and stir a few moments longer over the fire. Add the stock or gravy, and the wine, stir until406 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. it boils, season to taste, and cook gently for another five minutes. Place the ramequin cases in the oven to get hot, put a thin round of fried bread in each, fill up each case with kidneys, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the top of each, dish up, and serve quickly. Rognons sautes aux Champignons [Kidneys with Mushrooms). 3 to 4 sheep's kidneys, i oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 6 to 8 preserved mush- rooms, I gill demi-glace sauce, a glass Madeira, parsley, bread croutons, and seasoning. Remove the skin and core from the kidneys, and cut the latter into thin slices. Season with pepper and salt. Mince finely the peeled shallots and slice the mushrooms. Put the butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the shallots, allow them to get fawn colour, then add the kidneys, and shake or toss well over a brisk fire for about six minutes. Add the champagne, cover and draw aside the pan for five minutes, then put in the sauce, previously well reduced, and the mushrooms. Heat thoroughly, but do not allow it to boil, else the kidneys will become hard. Dish up, garnish with croutons of fried bread sprinkled with chopped parsley, and serve. Calves’ kidneys or calves’ liver may be prepared in the same manner. Rognons grilles [Grilled Sheep's Kidneys). Steep as many sheep’s kidneys as are required in tepid water, remove the skins and split each in half without quite detaching them. Fasten them on to wooden or iron skewers, season with salt and pepper, brush over with sweet oil or liquefied butter, place them on a greased gridiron, and broil on both sides from five to eight minutes. Dish up on toasted or buttered bread, and serve with a small cpiantity of devilled butter placed in the centre of each kidney. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF MUTTON. Carbonades de Mouton a la Chartreuse.—Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, surrounded with small vegetable timbales, groups of green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans. Sauce demi-glace. Casserole de Mouton a I’Anglaise.—Neck or loin of mutton, boned and freed from fat, cut into small fillets, stewed in an earthenware fireproof pan (use rich gravy) with a suet crust on top. Cotelettes de Mouton a I’Avignonnaise.—Boiled mutton chops or cutlets, drained, dressed in a circle on a baking-dish, masked over with a rich veloutee sauce, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven [graiin style). — a la Bardoux.—Breaded mutton cutlets, broiled in butter, served with green peas mixed with coarsely chopped fried ham previously tossed in a little butter. — a la Choiseul.—Mutton cutlets spread over with veal forcemeat, mixed with fine herbs and chopped mushrooms, wrapped in pig’s caul or lamb’s leaf-fat, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh breadcrumbs, and fried. Serve with suitable sauce.HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. 407 Cotelettes de Mouton a la Clatnart.—Breaded mutton cutlets, fried in butter, dished up in a circle with puree of green peas and asparagus points in centre ; deini-glace sauce. — a la Dreux.—Grilled mutton cutlets garnished with coarsely minced fried lean l)acon, tongue, and gherkins, dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. Sauce : Demi-glace or other thin brown sauce. — a la Financiere.—Larded mutton cutlets, cooked in butter, sliced onion, carrot, and bay-leaf; dressed in crown shape, with financiere ragout in centre. — a la Franpaise.—Breaded mutton cutlets fried in butter ; garnished with macedoine of vegetables ; sauce Madere. — aux Haricots Verts.—Fried mutton cutlets garnished with French beans in centre or side of dish. — a rindienne.—Breaded and fried mutton cutlets served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Mutton cutlets steeped in a mixture of salad oil, lemon- juice, and chopped savoury herbs, crumbed in finely chopped mush- rooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-rind, powdered mace, and bread- crumbs, fried in clarified butter, and served with Italian sauce. (Use herbs and spices judiciously.) — a la Madras.—Mutton cutlets egged and crumbed in fresh liread- crunibs, mixed with finely chopped tongue and ham, fried in deep fat. Garnished with mixed pickles cut into julienne shreds, and served with a mild curry sauce. — a la Maintenon.—(Mutton cutlets split open, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and chicken forcemeat, slightly broiled and afterwarcls baked in the oven. Dressed alter- nately with heart shapes of tongue and ham, and served with Italian sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Grilled mutton cutlets dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and flavoured with parmesan cheese. Demi-glace sauce is served round the cutlets. — a la Minute.—Plain grilled or broiled mutton cutlets with gravy or brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, and shallots. — a la Nelson.—Parboiled mutton cutlets, covered when cold and pressed with chicken forcemeat, onion puree, and grated cheese, liaked in the oven, served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Mutton cutlets, plain broiled ; served with small, young, braised and glaced turnips in centre ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Puree de Pommes de Terre.—Breaded mutton cutlets, fried in butter, dressed round mashed potatoes, served with gravy or demi- glace sauce. — a la St. Cloud.—Mutton cutlets larded with truffles and broiled or braised ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Germain.—Grilled or broiled mutton cutlets, with green pea puree in centre of dish.4o8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Salvanty.—Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dish up with a puree of green peas in centre ; sauce demi-glace. ■ — a la Soyer.—Par-broiled mutton cutlets or small chops neatly trimmed and seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, and savoury herbs. They are then fried in butter, dished up, and served with maitre d’hotel butter, flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. — aux Tomates.—Crumbed and fried mutton cutlets dished up with stewed, plain or stuft'ed tomatoes or tomato puree. — a la Vatel.—Mutton cutlets stuffed from the sides with chicken farce, mixed with chopped truffles, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with financiere ragout. — a la Venaison.—Larded mutton cutlets marinaded in red wine vinegar ; flavoured with cloves, juniper berries, peppercorns, and savoury herbs ; braised and served with brown sauce or sauce venaison, enriched with sour cream. — a la Vicomtesse.—Mutton cutlets, grilled and pressed, then immersed in a well-reduced Mada'e sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried. Dished up in a circle with a mixture of spring vegetables in centre, and , served with demi-glace sauce. Epaule de Mouton a la Sainte-Menehould [Shoulder of Mutton). Shoulder of mutton braised with carrots, turnips, bacon, and savoury herbs, when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under a salamander. Escalopes de Mouton a la Chipolata. These are fried crumbed mutton fillets or collops, cut from the chump ends of loins of mutton, garnished with braised chestnuts, carrots, turnips, and small onions, pieces of fried sausages, and fried potato croquettes. Filets de Mouton—Fillets of Mutton. Fillets of mutton are obtained from the loin or neck of lamb or mutton, cut of usual thickness, and must be free from bone and fat. Filets de Mouton braises a I’Anglaise.—Boned loin of mutton stuffed with forcemeat, braised, cut into slices, and dressed ; garnished with French beans. — a la Byron.—Grilled or broiled mutton fillets, coated with onion puree, dished up and served with stewed sheep’s kidneys in centre of dish. — a la Gascogne.—Boned piece of lean mutton (loin or neck) larded with anchovy fillets, braised and served with a brown sauce, flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. Hachis de Mouton a I’Ecossaise [Mutton Pie).—Hashed mutton laid in a pie-dish, covered with bechamel sauce, a thin layer of mashed potatoes, and breadcrumbs. Baked in a hot oven. — a la Portugaise.—Thinly sliced roast leg of mutton browned slightly in butter, with thin slices of ham, carrots, chopped shallots, a little garlic and chopped pa^rsley. Braised in Madere sauce. Served in a deep entree dish.HOT MEAT ENTRIES, ETC. 409 Langues de Mouton a la Dreux.—Boiled sheep’s longues, skinned and split open, ranged on a dish, spread over with a mixture of bread soaked in milk, chopped parsley or mushrooms, egg-yolks, and seasoning, sauced over with duxelle sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in the oven. — braisees a la Frarujaise. —Blanched sheep’s tongues skinned and braised, split in half, and garnished wifh puree of turnips, braised button onions, and turned carrots ; brown sauce. — aux Olives.—Braised sheep’s tongues with stoned French olives ; served with rich brown sauce. panees.—Blanch some sheep’s tongues, trim them or cook them till tender in seasoned stock. Remove the skins and split them length- ways, season with salt and pepper, and dip them in oiled butter, cover well with breadcrumbs. Dry-fry them in butter in a saute- pan until they acquire a golden colour. Dish up round a bed of spinach or green pea puree, pour some piquanfe sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. — en Papillotes.—Braised sheej)’s tongues dressed in pa])er cases, and glazed over with liquefied meat glaze. — grillees a la Suisse.—Parboiled or braised sheep’s tongues, split in halves, seasoned, dipped in butter and breadcrumbs, and grilled; served with piquante sauce. — en Chevreuil.—Boned loin of mutton braised in a richly-flavoured game stock with plenty of savoury herbs, carrots, onions, pepper- corns, and juniper berries. Served with port wine or Reforme sauce. Noisettes de Mouton a la Maintenon.—Small slices from neck or loin of mutton, free from bone and skin, breaded and fried, dressed on croutons of bread, garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with green peas ; sauce demi-glace. — de Pre-sale a la Chatelaine,—Braised mutton noisettes (fillets of mutton) dressed on halves of braised lettuce ; garnished with noisette potatoes and artichoke bottoms fllled with chestnut puree ; sauce Madere. Pieds de Mouton farcis et braises.—Boiled sheep’s trotters boned, stuffed, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — frits a rOrly.—Sheep’s trotters cooked in stock, boned and cut in slices, marinaded in oil, vinegar and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat ; served with tomato sauce. — a rindienne.—Boiled sheep’s trotters boned, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a la Poulette.—Sheep’s trotters cooked in stock, boned, and stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and lemon- juice. — a la Rouennaise,—Boiled sheep’s trotters, boned and stuffed with sausage-meat, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat. Served with piquante sauce. — frits a la Tartare.—Sheep’s trotters fried as above ; served with tartare sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 410 Pieds de Mouton a la Villeroi.—Boiled sheep’s trotters, Iwned, stuffed, rolled, coated with supreme sauce, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarihed butter. Queues de Mouton braisees a la Franpaise.—Sheep’s tails braised, with carrots, turnips, small onions, garnished with the vegetables used in braising, and small marble-shaped fried potatoes. Rognons de Mouton a I’Epicurienne.—Sheep’s kidneys skinned and split, broiled or grilled ; when dished up, the centres are filled with a thick tartare sauce. Garnish the dish with small round fried potatoes, and serve with poivrade sauce. — aux Fines Herbes.—Grilled sheep’s kidneys, the centres of which are filled with maitre d’hotel or parsley butter. Serve with a little demi-glace sauce. Rognons de Mouton panes.—Sheep’s kidneys blanched, skinned, and split, put on skewers, buttered, covered with breadcrumbs, and baked in a very hot oven or fried in clarified butter. — sautes a la Franpaise.—Sliced sheep’s kidneys, seasoned with salt, pepper, and very little cayenne, grilled or broiled over a quick fire ; when partly done dredge with flour, and finish cooking in a little demi-glace sauce, garnish with fried bread croutons, buttered and sprinkled over with chojrped parsley. — a la Turbigo.—Sliced sheep’s kidneys tossed in butter and finely chopped shallots. Finish cooking in a little white wine sauce, mixed with small pieces of sausages and grilled lean bacon, cut in dice shapes ; served hot in a paste croustade. VEAU—VEAL. Blanquette de Veau [White Veal Stew). if lb. to 2 lb. cushion of veal or fillet, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 8 to 10 small onions, i bouquet garni, f gill white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), f gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon-juice, seasoning. Cut the veal into neat square pieces, put it into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover, add a good pinch of salt and the juice of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, and remove the scfmi. Now add the wine, the bouquet garni, and the onions, previously peeled. Cover and cook gently for about an hour. Pour off the stock and remove the bouquet. Melt the butter in a small stew- pan, stir in the flour, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, but do not let it get brown, moisten with a pint of stock, boil up, skim, cook for ten minutes. Add cream and egg-yolks, strain over the cooked veal, add the mushrooms, cut it in halves or slices, re-heat, without letting it actually boil, season to taste, dish up, garnish with fleurons, and serve hot. Brisotins de Veau a la Bouquetiere [Braised Veal Rolls). 2 lb. lean veal, 6 oz. larding bacon, -I lb. forcemeat (p. 177), 2 oz. butter, I sliced carrot, i small sliced onion, f pint stock, i gill Madere sauce, I glass of sherry, macedoine of vegetables, seasoning, mashed potatoes for border.411 HOT MEAT ENTRIES, ETC. Cut the meat into six to eight slices of even size, about a quarter of an inch thick, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and season with pepper and salt. Lard one side of each with strips of larding bacon. On the sides not larded spread a layer of forcemeat, roll up, and tie with string. Put the butter in a deep saute-pan, add carrot and onion, place the rolled pieces on top, cover with a buttered paper, cook over the fire until the meat is nicely browned, then add the stock and sherry. Braise in the oven for twenty-five minutes, bastingdt occasionally. Take ont the brisotins, remove the strings, and keep hot, remove the fat from the essence, add the sauce, boil up, and strain. Have ready a narrow border of mashed jiotatoes, arrange the brisotins neatly on it, fill the centre with a jardiniere of vegetables, and serve with the sance. Macedoine de Legumes {Vegetable Macedoine). Scoop out by means of a vegetable-scoop an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, and cucumber, cut some French beans into small pieces, prepare also a handful of asparagus tips, caulillower buds, and green peas. Cook each vegetable separately in salted water, drain, add a small piece of butter, a pinch of castor sugar, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Serve in groups round the dish as garnish or mix all together, moisten with a little brown sauce, and serve in the centre as above directed. Cotelettes de Veau a la Fram?aise [Veal Cutlets, Fyench Style). 5 or 6 bones of liest end of neck of veal. 2 oz. Imttcr, i teaspoonful cliopped herbs, i teaspoonful chopped lenion-rind, 6 tablespoonfnls breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, 2 egg-volks, tomato sauce. Saw off the chine - bone and the upper part of the rib - bones of the neck, leaving the rib-bones about three inches long. Divide into cutlets, flatten with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly, and season. l\Ielt about half an ounce butter, beat up the egg-yolks, and mix together on a plate, add the lemon-rind and chopped herbs, and mix thoroughly, dip the cutlets in this, and then in breadcrumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute- or frying-pan, and fry the cutlets a golden colonr. Drain, dish up, put a frill on each bone, and serve with tomato or demi-glace sauce. UNTRIMMED. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR VEAL CUTLETS OR FILLETS. Cotes or Cotelettes de Veau {Veal Cutlets).—Cotes or cutlets of veal should be cut from the neck or loin ; cutlets, however, should be^trimmed with the bone left on, and in consequence can only be obtained from the neck.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 412 Cotes or Cotelettes de Veau a I’AHemande. Breaded veal cutlets fried in butter, dressed round potato j)uree ; sauce demi-glace. — a I’Anglaise.—Breaded veal cutlets grilled or broiled, garnished with potatoes fried or tossed in butter. -- en Belle Vue.—Cold hllets or cutlets ot veal cooked and set in aspic, coated with chaud-froid sauce, garnished with truffles and vegetable jardiniere. — a la Bordelaise.—Broiled veal cutlets or fillets, dished up on fried bread croutons with stewed cepes in centre ; served with sauce Bordelaise. en Crepinettes.—Veal cutlets or fillets wrapped in pig’s caul, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with demi-glace or plain gravy. — a la Cracovie.—Broiled veal cutlets or fillets larded with strips of anchovy fillets, served with sauce Madere. — a la Dauphine.—Veal cutlets stuffed from the sides with a mixture of chopped tongue and truffles and allemande sauce, garnished with potato croquettes.; served with perigueux sauce. — a la Demi-glace.—Veal cutlets fried or grilled, served with brown, i.e. demi-glace, sauce. — a la Dreux.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins, served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and cooked sliced sweetbread in centre or side of dish; tomato sauce. — a I'Ecarlate.—Plain broiled or grilled veal cutlets dressed alternately with heart-shaped slices of ox-tongue, served with sauce tomate. — a ritalienne.—Plain broiled veal cutlets, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, and served with Italian sauce. — a la Lorgnette.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; garnish with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour and fried in clarified butter, and serve with a good gravy. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maitre d’hotel butter. — a la Marechale.—Breaded, i.e. egged and cheese-crumbed, veal cutlets fried in butter, served with bigarade sauce. — a la Milanaise.—Veal cutlets braised or broiled, garnished with macaroni, stewed in tomato sauce and flavoured with grated parmesan cheese. — en papillotes.—Stuffed veal cutlets or fillets braised in and served in paper cases. — a la Parjarski.—Cutlet shapes of minced raw veal, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter ; served with a blend of demi-glace and tomato sauce. — a la Parma.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed with breadcrumbs mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in clarified butter ; served with tomato or demi-glace sauce. — a la Prusse.—Veal cutlets spread over with a mixture of chicken or veal farce, mixed with chopped truffles and finely chopped shallots ; braised in butter, and finished in white or fawn sauce. — a la Reine.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed, broiled in butter, served with demi-glace^sauce containing slicecl truffles and preserved sliced mushrooms.413 HOT MEAT ENTRJ^ES, ETC. Cotes or Cotelettes de Veau a la Saint-Cloud.—Veal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, fried in fresh butter, garnished with forcemeat quenelles ; sauce Allemande. — a la Singarat.—Veal cutlets larded with small strips of smoked ox- fongue and bacon, fhen braised, and finished cooking in a rich piquante brown sauce. — a la Soubise.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets, served with white onion puree in centre or side of dish. Frequently grilled plain, and served with soubise puree and demi-glace sauce. — a la Zingari.—Veal cutlets fried in clarified butter, dished up alter- nately with cutlet-shaped slices of broiled ham, served with Mad&re sauce. CERVELLES DE VEAU.—CALF’S BRAINS. Cervelles de Veau au Beurre noir. Remove the skin from three calves’ brains, wash well, drain, and cook in richly-flavoured stock for about si.x minutes, strain well, dish up, and sauce over with some hot black butter sauce. Cervelles de Veau a la Milanaise. Fried calf’s brain served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce. Garnish the dish with strips of ham, tongue, preserved mushi-ooms, and finely shredded truffles. Cervelles de Veau a la Poulette {Calf’s Brains with Parsley Sauce). 2 nice calves’ brains, 1} oz. butter, r oz. flour. -J- pint white stock, -1- gill cream, i yolk of egg, i lemon, i chopped shallot, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, 4 oz. rice, i pint veal In'oth, salt and pepper. Wash and clean the brains in several waters, put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, add one bay-leaf, one small onion cut into slices, a small bunch of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little lemon-juice. Bring slowly to the boil, take up the brains, and cut them into dice. Fry the shallot lightly in butter, add the flour, cook a little without browning, stir in the stock, boil up, cook gently for ten minutes, then strain, season to taste, add the remainder of the lemon-jnice and the cream. Put the brains in the sauce, slowly re-heat, and add the chopped parsley a few minutes before serving. Wash, pick, blanch, and drain the rice, and cook it in stock till tender. When the rice grains are separate but quite tender, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, stir in the yolk of egg, cook a little longer till the egg is set, then fill a well-buttered plain border mould. Shake the mould so as to get the rice well down, then turn out on a hot dish, put the ragout of brains in the centre, and serve hot. Matelote de Cervelle de Veau {Calf’s Brains in Rice CroiUe). Skin two calves’ brains, soak in cold water, then drain, and cook in a richly-flavoured stock, containing the juice of one lemon. Cook some rice in stock, when done season, pound, and press into an oval or round flat mould, previously buttered and sprinkled with panurette. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour.414 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Scoop out some of the centre part of the rice, and continue to bake the crust, till the cavity is browned. Unmould carefully, and place on to a hot dish. Force a pretty border of potato puree round the edge of the crust, egg this over, and brown in the centre. Divide the brains into portions, well drain them, and heat up in Bordeaux MATELOTE DE CERVELLE DE VEAU EN CRODTE. sauce, add to this about i8 small glazed button onions, and a handful of neatly cut dice shapes of fried bacon, also 12 stoned French olives, and 2-3 gherkins cut into dice similar to the former. Dress neatly into the prepared rice croute, and serve. Note.—Calf’s head, sweetbread or lamb’s bread, can be cooked and served in similar style as above. Escalopes de Veau [Breaded Veal Fillets). About ir lb. cushion part of veal (or neck), 3 oz. butter, i egg, bread- crumbs, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Crtt the meat into six or seven even-sized slices, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly into round or oval shape, and season lightly with pepper and salt. Melt an ounce of butter, beat up the egg, add the parsley and melted butter, mix thoroughly, dip in each slice of meat, and cover with breadcrumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the cutlets and fry a golden colour on both sides. Dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with prepared French beans, pour a little gravy or brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Escalopes de Veau a la Russe. About 2 t lb. knuckle of veal, 3 oz. clarilied butter, 4 oz. pork, 4 oz. beef- marrow, 2 oz. anchovy paste, i yolk of egg, i teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, 1 pint preserved cepes, i gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, bread- crumbs. Trim the veal, cut it into eight even-sized collops, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and shape neatly. Make two ounces butter hot in a saute-pan, brown the collops quickly, but do not cook them much, as the meat will afterwards be cooked again. Press between41S HOT MEAT ENTRllES, ETC. two boards until cold. Strain the butter, and keej) for further use. Cut the pork and marrow into small pieces, pound well in a mortar, add the anchovy paste, savoury herbs, egg-yolk, and a small j)iece of butter. When thoroughly pounded, season with pepper and salt, rub through a hue sieve, and cover one side of each scallop thickly with this farce. Add a few fried breadcrumbs, sprinkle with oiled butter, and place in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Strain the cepes, saute them in a little butter, season with salt and pepper, add the demi-glace sauce, and cook for ten minutes. Dish the scallops in a circle on a hot round dish, and put the ragout of cepes in the centre. Escalopes de Veau a la Savoisienne. Broiled veal collops or thin slices of fillet of veal dressed in the centre of a border of small rice timbales. Sauce demi-glace, blended with tomate sauce. Escalopes de Veau a la Viennoise. Veal hllets or collops egged, crumbed, and fried, served with a thin brown sauce, garnished with gherkins, olives, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard-boiled eggs, Fricandeau de Veau a la Regence. Larded cushion of veal, braised whole, and glazed with its own gravy reduced, dished up with a garniture of veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, and truffles. Sauce Madere. Fricandelles de Veau, Sauce Tomate. Small veal forcemeat dumplings or quenelles made the same as veal quenelles, boiled in stock and drained. When cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Served with tomato sance. Fricandelles de Veau au gratin. Veal forcemeat dumplings or quenelles made same as veal c][uenelles, boiled in stock and drained, then placed in a buttemd dish, covered with white sauce and breadcrumbs, and sprinkled with butter ; browned in the oven. Fricassee de Veau a I’AHemande. Pieces of breast, fillet or neck of veal freed from skin and bones, and stewed in white sauce, garnished with crayfish quenelles, crav- fish tails, cooked asparagus tips, and sprigs of cooked caulillower. Fricassee de Veau a I’Anglaise, Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms ; similar formula as “ Blanquette de ^Vau.” Served with thin slices of fried or grilled bacon as garnish. Filets de Veau a la Colbert. Cut about two pounds of lean fillet of veal into eight slices, flatten, trim, and season with pepper and salt. Heat two ounces of butter and two tablespoon fids of sweet oil in a santApan, fiy the fillets on both sides quickly, drain, and put them on a jdate. Pour off most of the fat, add three finely-chopped shallots, fry a4i6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. little, dilute with a small glass of sherry and rather more than a gill of Madere sauce, boil for a few minutes, add a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, stir well, and work in an ounce and a half of fresh butter. Return the hllets and mix well with the same, but do not let it boil again. Dish in a circular row, place a heart-shaped slice of fried bread between each hllet. Fill the centre with small round potatoes (Pommes de Terre a la Parisienne), sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, pour the remainder of the sauce over the hllets, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Fermiere. Veal hllets cooked the same as in the foregoing recipe. Garnish with groups of cooked carrots, lettuce, caulihower, and small round fried potatoes. Serve with sauce demi-glace. Petits Filets de Veau a la Garibaldi [Small Veal Fillets). lb. fillet of veal, i to 2 shallots, 2 oz. butter, i gill veloutee sauce, i glass Chablis, J lb. short crust paste, ^ lb. spaghetti (cooked), ^ oz. grated cheese, I small lobster, -h gill cardinal sauce, 2 truffles, seasoning. Cut the hllet of veal into rather thin slices, hatten, and cut into small heart shapes. Line a han mould with the paste, prick the bottom, hll with dried peas or rice, cook a golden colour. Un- mould and let cool. Melt the butter lightly, fry in it the hnely chopped shallots, put in the veal, and cook over a quick hre for a few minutes. Pour off fhe butter, add the wine, reduce a little, and moisten with the sauce veloutee. Season and cook gently for ten minutes. Cut the meat of the lobster into dice shapes, and heat up in the cardinal sauce. Season to taste. Heat up the spaghetti in a little white sauce, add the cheese and seasoning. Cut the truffle into thin slices, one for each veal fillet, chop the remainder, and mix with the spaghetti. Fill the paste-crust with the latter, dress the veal fillets in the form of a crown, place a slice of truffle on each fillet, and arrange the ragout of lobster neatly in the centre of the dish. Dish up, put it in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Hongroise [Hungarian Veal Cutlets). 11- to 2 lb. fillets of veal (knuckle or cushion part will do), 6 new potatoes, 6 anchovy fillets, i hard-boiled egg, i fresh egg, i tablespoonful capers, gherkins, i lemon, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, gill Espagnole sauce, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, paprika, breadcrumbs. Cut the meat into thin slices, beat them with the blade of a chopping-knife or cutlet-bat, and chop lightly so as to thin them. Trim, season with salt, pepper, and paprika, roll in flour, dip in beaten egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Clarify the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets and cook them a nice golden brown. Dress them flat in a circle on a hot dish, on each fillet place a slice of hard-boiled egg, and on these arrange symmetrically some fillets of anchovies and capers. Fill fhe centre of the dish with cubes of new potatoes, blanched, drained, fried in clarified butter a golden colour, freed from fat, and seasoned with white pepper and paprika. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top, surround the border of417 HOT MEAT ENTRhES, ETC. the dish with thin slices of gherkins and slices of lemon, the peel of which has been notched. Send to table with Espagnole sauce llavoured up with a few drops of lemon-juice. Filets de Veau a la Milanaise. Fried fillets of veal, garnished with boiled macaroni stewed in white sauce, mixed with grated parmesau cheese and finely shredded ox-tongue ; served with tomato sauce. Mignons de Filets de Veau a la Princesse, 8 very small fillets cut from the neck part, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, 2 table- spoonfuls chopped parsley and chives, a little tarragon, chervil, truffle, and lemon-rind, |- lb. puff-paste (p. 133), i cucumber, pint asparagus tips, bechamel sauce, sauce Princesse, 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, i egg. Flatten the fillets rather thinly, and trim them neatly into ovals or rounds. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them cpiickly in butter to a pale colour. Take up, and press them till cold. Mix the parsley, chives, herbs, lemon-rind, and truffles, and moisten with enough bechamel to form a paste. Spread the fillets with this, and enclose each one in thinly rolled out puff-paste. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven, from ten to fifteen minutes. From the peeled cucumber, cut six one-and-a-half inch pieces, stamp out the centre, blanch them, place them on the artichoke bottoms, fill with seasoned cooked asparagus tips, moist- ened with white sauce, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dress the fillets on a bed of pea purtie, and arrange the cucumber garnish round the dish. Pour some hot Princesse sauce round it, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Talleyrand [Fillets of Veal, Talleyrand Style). I lb. lean veal (fillet or cushion part), i-^- oz. butter, 2 small shallots, i des- £_sertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 lemon, 2 yolks of eggs, 6 small preserved ^mushrooms, i gill white sauce, i teaspoonful meat glaze (p. 140), salt and pepper. Cut the meat into six equal-sized slices of even thickness, pare them neatly into round or oval shapes, and flatten with a cutlet-bat. Heat the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them a light-fawn colour, and take up. Add to the butter in the pan the chopped shallots, fry without browning, add the mushrooms, also chopped finely, cook while stirring for a few seconds, mix the yolks of eggs with the hot sauce, and stir this in. Season to taste, add the chopped parsley and a few drojis of lemon-juice, place the fillets in this, and shake the pan gently over the fire, but the sauce must on no account be allowed to boil, else it wall curdle. Dish up the fillets in a row' on a thin bed of mashed potatoes. Sauce over carefully, sprinkle over a few' drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Victoria. .\bout 3 lb. cushion or kernel of veal, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, i carrot, i turnip. I onion, i small bouquet of herbs, i oz. butter, gill white wine, l gill white stock, pepper and salt, 4 pint well-reduced bechamel sauce, 6 pre- served mushrooms, i egg, breadcrumbs, clarified butter or dripping for frying, piquante sauce. Trim the meat, free it from skin and sinew'S, line a braising-pan w'ith slices of bacon. Prepare the vegetables cut into slices, put DDthe new century cookery book. 4i8 them with the bouquet of herbs in the pan. Put in the meat and butter, fry over a sharp fire, turning the meat frequently until it acquires a nice golden-brown colour, then moisten with the wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. When done, take up and let it cool. Cut it into half-inch-thick slices. Chop the mushrooms, and mix them with the white sauce. Mask each slice of veal thickly with the sauce, as soon as the sauce has set dip into beaten egg, and cover well with breadcrumbs. Fry the crumbed slices in a saute-pan containing clarihed butter or dripping. Drain and dish up in a circle on a hot dish, the centre of which may be filled with a ragout of mushrooms and truffles, spinach or green peas. Pour some hot piquante sauce round the hllets, and serve. Foie de Veau braise {Braised Calf's Liver). Take a small calf’s liver, soak it in cold water for about twenty minutes, then drain and wipe it with a cloth. Insert small thin strips of larding bacon into the surface of the liver. Prepare a mirepoi.x of vegetables, fry them brown in i|- oz. of hot butter, put in the liver, let it brown gently, pour off the fat, add about half a pint of rich brown sauce and a gill of good stock. Season with pepper and salt, and let simmer gently for about an hour. Add a glass of port wine, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of finely chopped parsley. Boil up, take up the liver, let the liquid reduce, strain, and remove the fat. Dish up the liver, sauce over carefully, and serve whole. Foie de Veau a la Clermont [Fried Calf’s Liver). I large Spanish onion, 2 oz. butter, pint stock, ^ pint Espagnole sauce, lb. calf’s liver, a tablespoonful flour, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Peel and blanch the onion, cut it into very fine dice, fry a golden colour in about an ounce of butter, then add the stock, and cook slowly until reduced to a thick puree. Add the brown sauce, and reduce further. Mix the Hour on a plate with a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut the liver into slices about three-eighths of an inch in thickness, pare each slice to the shape of a neat fillet, and dip in the prepared flour. Heat the remaincler of butter in a saute-pan, put in the liver and fry the slices on both sides until they are firm to the touch. This should not take more than six or eight minutes. Dress the puree on a hot dish, drain the slices of liver, place them neatly on top, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and serve. Foie de Veau a I’Echalote [Stewed Calf’s Liver) I lb. calf’s liver, 2 oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour, 2 finely chopped shallots, I teaspoonful lemon-juice, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, jrepper and salt, gill brown stock, i glass of Chablis wine, a few half- moons of puff-pastry (lleurons). Wipe the liver with a damp cloth, cut it in very fine short slices, season with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, add the chopped shallots, fry a light colour, put in the liver, and toss over a quick fire for about five minutes. Sprinkle in flour, tossHOT MEAT ENTR/'ES, ETC. 419 again, add the chopped parsley, lemon-juice, stock, and wine. Let it simmer whilst stirring for another hve minutes. Pile np on a hot dish, garnish with half-moons of puff-paste, and serve. Grenadins de Veau a la Marchand de Vin. 11 to 2 lb. lillct of veal, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 finely chojiped shallots, -J- gill tomato sauce, 1- gill brown sauce, i glass claret, .seasoning, mashed ])otatoes, 3 to 4 slices of lean bacon. Cut the veal into suitable slices, flatten them a little with a wetted cutlet-bat, trim into shape, and insert by means of a larding- needle a couple of rows of thin strips of bacon in each slice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallots, and fry a little without browning. Drain off the butter, and put the shallots in a small stewpan. Return the butter to the saute-pan, put in the grenadins, and fry a nice golden colour on each side. Add the claret to the shallots, cover the stewpan, let it reduce well, then add the two sauces and parsley, season with pepper and salt, and reduce to about half the original cpfantity. Pour the butter from the grenadins, add the sauce, cover the saute-pan with a lid, and allow contents to cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Take up the grenadins, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with strips of lean bacon previously fried in a little butter, pour the sauce over the grenadins, and serve. Grenadins de Veau a la Jardiniere. Trim a piece of cushion of veal, cut it into twelve slices, flatten them, trim, and give them the shape of hearts as near as possible, and lard them rather closely with strips of fat bacon. Prepare a layer of sliced vegetables and bacon in a buttered saute-pan, place the meat on this, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a glass of white wine and white stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about an hour, basting from time to time. Fill a well-buttered flat border mould with veal forcemeat (p. 177), steam in a stewpan, turn out on a dish and keep warm. When the grenadins are done, arrange them in a circular form on the border of forcemeat, fill the centre with a preparation of jar- diniere of vegetables, mixed with a little demi-glace. Sauce over the grenadins with their own stock, well reduced. Goulache de Veau a la Viennoise {Veal Goulash). il lb. lean veal, J lb. cooked new potatoes, 2 oz. butter, J small onion, t pint cream, paprika pepper, and salt. Free the meat from skin and sinews, and cut it into dice. Cut the potatoes into cubes. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the meat and fry lightly for several minutes, then add the onion, finely chopped, stir over the fire for about five minutes, season with salt and pepper, and add the potatoes. Pour off the superfluous fat, moisten with the cream and a tablespoonful of rich white stock, season with suftreient paprika pepper to impart a pink tint, and cook gently for about twenty minutes. It is best to cook the goulashTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 420 at the latter stage in a fireproof earthenware stewpan, in which it should be sent to table. Great care must be taken so as not to break the potatoes whilst cooking. Serve very hot. Coarsely- minced apples are sometimes addecl, and cooked with the meat. Noisettes de Veau a la Princesse. About 2 lb. of fillet or cushion of veal, J pint asparagus tips, 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 truffles, \ lb. butter, gill white wine, gill sherry, i pint demi- glace sauce, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 8 rounds of fried bread (size of fillets). Cut the veal into six or eight even-sized round slices, flatten a little and trim neatly. Put the artichokes into sufflcient hot salted water to cover, acidulated with a few drops of lemon-juice, add a small piece of butter, and boil gently. Cook the asparagus points in salted water containing a very small piece of soda, strain, let cool in water, and strain again. Put them in a stew-pan and add a little demi-glace sauce and half an ounce of butter. Slice the truffles, and cook them in a little sherry wine. Season the fillets with pepper and a very little grated nutmeg. Saute them in butter in the ffsual way. Put them on a baking-sheet and brush over with meat glaze. Place each on a round piece of fried bread, fill the artichoke bottoms with asparagus points, and put one on’ each fillet. Dress them in a circle on a dish, and put the remaincler of asparagus points in the centre. Arrange the slices of truffles on top of each dressed fillet, so as to form an effective design. Have ready the demi-giace sauce, previously well reduced with the wine, and containing the essence of truffle and fillets. Sauce round the dish, and serve. Olives de Veau ( Veal Olives). I lb. lean veal (cushion or fillet), 2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, i oz. finely chopped beef suet, t oz. butter, chopped parsley, mixed herbs, lemon-rind and nutmeg, i egg, salt and pepper, brown sauce, J glass sherry. Cut the meat into slices, beat them with a wetted cutlet-bat, and trim neatly. Mince the trimmings of the meat finely, add the suet, butter, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, grated lemon-rind, and half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix with a little beaten egg. Spread each slice with the prepared stuffing, roll up, and tie with string. Fry them lightly in a little dripping or butter, pour off the fat, add about three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce and the sherry, and stew gently for about an hour, or until the meat is tender. Remove the string, dress the olives on a bed of spinach or mashed potatoes, and strain the sauce round the base of the dish. Beef Olives are made in exactly the same manner, using beef ■ in place of veal, serve with demi-glace or tomato sauce. Paupiettes de Veau a la Jardiniere {Rolled Veal Fillets Stuffed and Braised). lb. of veal, 4 oz. bacon, i onion, \ oz. butter, pepper and salt, i pint of white stock, parsley and spice, 5 pint of allemande sauce, cauliflower, carrot, turnip, green peas and French beans, veal forcemeat (p. 177).421 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Proceed as directed in “ Olives de Veau.” Enclose each roll in a slice of bacon, and place the stewpan in the oven instead of on the stove. Prepare a garnish of cooked buds of cauliflower, carrot, and turnip, cut a la jardiniere, also some green peas and French beans, toss theni lightly in a little butter over the lire. To 8 or 10 oz. of veal forcemeat add 3 oz. of mashed potatoes and I tablespoonful of cream, put into a buttered plain border mould, bake for hfteen minutes, and turn on to a hot dish. Dress the panpiettes on the border, pour over the white sauce well reduced, lill the centre with vegetable jardiniere, and cover with liquid meat glaze, and serve. Papillotes de Veau a la Maintenon. Boned veal cutlets fried m butter, stufted with forcemeat and sawmry herbs, wrapped in paper, and baked ; served with fried parsley. Paupiettes de Veau a la Toscane [Rolled Veal Fillets). to 3 lb. fillet of veal, i oz. butter, 4 even-sized ripe tomatoes, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. fat pork. 4 oz. panadc, 3 yolks of eggs, 10 peppercorns, 2 truffles, 8 mushrooms, | gill white sauce, i- pint stock, c pint tomato sauce, I bouquet garni, i carrot, f turnip, i onion, meat glaze, pepper, salt, and cayenne, pint cooked green peas, i tablespoonful breadcrumbs, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley. Cut the veal into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick, flatten, trim into heart shapes, and place a thin slice of bacon on each. Pound the trimmings of veal, the bacon, and pork. Add the panade, yolks of eggs, jfepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne, mix tho- roughly, and rub through a sieve. Put a layer of this farce on the slices of veal and bacon, roll up, enclose in pieces of buttered paper, and tie with string. Put in a deep saute-pan, add i oz. butter, the peppercorns, bouquet garni, carrot, turnip, and onions, cut into slices, place the paupiettes on top, cover, fry over a quick hre for a few minutes, then add the stock. Braise for about one hour. Baste occasionally. When done, strain liquor into small stewpan, free it from fat, add tomato sauce and necessary seasoning, and reduce well. Cut the tomatoes into halves, scoop out a little of the pulp, chop the truffles and mushrooms finely, mix with the remainder of the farce, add breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Stuff the tomatoes, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Remove string and paper from the paupiettes, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and put in the oven on a baking-tin for a few seconds. Put each paupiette in the centre of a stuffed tomato, dish in a circle, pour sauce round, with peas in centre, and serve. Spinach, by way of a change, can be served in place of peas. Pieds de Veau a I’Orly [Fried Calf's Feet). I pair of calf’s feet, i carrot, i onion, -1- oz. flour, gill vinegar, peppercorns, salt, oil, parsley, i egg, breadcrumbs, fat for frvdng, tomato sauce. Wash and scald the calf’s feet, remove the shank-bone, slit them in two, and steep in cold water for one or two hours, and422 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. blanch in salted water. Cover with water or stock, add carrot and onion sliced, a few peppercorns, and cook slowly till tender. Drain, remove the hoof-bones, place the meat under press, let cool, and cut into convenient strips. Prepare a dressing of oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley, pour over the pieces and let them soak for an hour. Mix the Hour with a little pepper and salt, dip in each piece, then egg and crumb in the usual way. Fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Pieds de Veau (Calf’s Feet) frits a la Tyrolienne. Cook the calf’s feet the same as above directed, but instead of being egged and crumbed, coat the pieces with frying batter, and fry in deep fat, drain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Pieds de Veau en Fricassee. Boiled calf’s feet, boned, and stewed in white sauce, with sliced mushrooms. The same as fricassee of veal. Pieds de Veau a la Poulette. Boiled calf’s feet, boned, and stewed in white sauce, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley. Pieds de Veau a la Vinaigrette. Calf’s feet blanched, boiled in stock, and boned, dressed, and served with vinaigrette sauce. Quenelles de Veau a la Marengo ( Veal Quenelles, Marengo Style). f lb. veal, freed from skin, fat, and sinews, J- lb. soft bread, 4 oz. bntter, 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs, ^ gill white sauce or veloutee, i oz. small preserved mushrooms, ^ gill tomato sauce, J gill stock, J gill Espagnole sauce, i glass sherry, 6 small eggs fried in oil for garnish, salt, white and red pepper, and nutmeg. Soak the bread in cold water or milk for about ten minutes, press out the moisture, and put it in a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir over the fire until it is quite smooth, and leaves the sides of the pan. Add the yolks of four eggs, stir a little longer to cook the eggs, spread on a plate, cover with buttered paper, and let cool. Chop and pound the veal till smooth, rub through a sieve, return to the mortar, add bread panade, the remainder of butter, work in the white sauce and two whole eggs, one at a time, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put it on a plate or dish, and keep on the ice till wanted. Shape the forcemeat into quenelles by means of two dessert-spoons previously dipped in boil- ing water, place them on a buttered saute-pan, about half an inch apart. Pour in gently some boiling water or white stock, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Put the tomato, Espagnole sauce, stock, and sherry in a stewpan, reduce well, skim, and add the mushrooms, cut in slices. Drain the quenelles carefully on a cloth, dish up in pyramid form, mask with the sar:ce, fry the eggs separately in very hot salad oil slightly brown, drain on a cloth, and place them round the quenelles.HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Quenelles de Veau a la Tyrolienne {Fried Veal Quenelles). 2' lb. lean veal, 6 oz. soft bread. ^ pint milk, 3 whole and 3 yolks of eggs, a couple of tablespoonfuls white sauce (bechamel or veloutee), 3 to 4 oz. lean bacon, J lemon, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, 4 small ripe tomatoes, i pint rich stock, salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, parsley, fried broad croutons. Prepare the quenelle farce as directed in preceding recipe. Wash, blanch, and drain the rice. Fry the bacon, ent into dice, in 2 oz. of butter, put in the rice, stir for a few minutes without browning, cover with stock, cook gently until tender, stirring occasionally, and adding more stock as required. Slice the tomatoes, toss them in butter over a quick fire, season with pepper and salt, add the juice of half a lemon and a little stock, boil for ten minutes, and strain. Reserve a little of this sance to go round the dish, and put the remainder into the rice, which must be allowed to reduce to the right consistency for moulding. Poach the cpienelles in stock or salted water, when cold dip in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Fill a buttered border mould with the rice, unmould quickly on to a round entree dish, and place a round croute in the centre of the rice. Arrange the quenelles on top of the border and croute, pour the tomato sauce round, and garnish with fried parsley. Quenelles de Veau a la Villeroi {Veal Quenelles, VUlevoi Style). 8 oz. lean veal (fillet), } oz. flour, i oz. butter, ^ gill stock, 2 eggs, y gill cream, seasoning, ^ pint veloutee sauce, i dessertspoonful meat glaze, breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful chopped ham or tongue, frying-fat, French beans for garnish. Prepare and cook the quenelles as directed in “ Quenelles de Veau a la Marengo.” Mix thoroughly, and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. M'hen cold mask them completely with well-reduced veloutee sauce, let set, then egg and crumb them carefully (mix the breadcrumbs with a little chopped ham or tongue), and fry in clarified fat to a golden colour. Dish up in the form of a circle on a hot dish, and fill the centre with cooked French beans, tossed in butter. Heat up the remainder of veloutee sauce, and add the meat glaze to it, pour this round the base of the dish, and serve. RIS DE VEAU-SWEETBREADS. To Blanch Sweetbreads. After having soaked the sweetbreads in cold water from two to three hours, put them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover. Let the whole come cpnckly to the boil, then plunge quickly into cold water, let them remain for half an hour, and drain well. Ris de Veau frit a I’Americaine {Fried Sweetbread). Cut a blanched sweetbread into slices about half an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, beat up an egg, add a little chopped parsley and half an ounce of melted butter, mix well ; dip424 the new century COOKERY BOOK. the slices into this, cover well with breadcrumbs, repeat, shape, and fry in boiling fat. Drain, serve on toast or a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round, not over, the sweetbreads, and serve. Ris de Veau en Hatelets [Sweetbread on Skewers). Cut some cooked sweetbread into small slices ; cut as many thin slices of bacon of the same size. Season the breads with a little pepper or aromatic seasoning. Pi;t three slices of sweetbreads and of bacon, alternately, on small skewers, and repeat until the breads and bacon are used. Egg and crumb twice, or dip into frying- batter. Have ready some hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Ris de Veau a la Chartreuse [Chartreuse of Sweetbread). Blanch, trim, and lard two or more heart sweetbreads, braise them in the usual manner, and glaze them when finished. Dress them on a croute of fried bread, and garnish with a chartreuse of vegetables, previously heated (green peas, asparagus tips, young carrots, and beans), place three poached quenelles of chicken on each side of the dish, decorated with stars of truffles, etc., and a few mushroom heads, and then sauce over with demi-glace sauce, and serve hot. Ris de Veau a la Conti, 2 heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, mirepoix, seasoning, demi-glace or Madere sauce, a few slices of ox-tongue, 2 large truffles, -J pint stock, chicken or veal quenelles for garnish (p. 178), meat glaze. Blanch, truss, and press the sweetbreads. Lard the best side with strips of larding bacon and strips of tongue, stud the centre with truffles. Line a saute-pan with a mirepoix, lay the sweet- breads on it, moisten with stock, season with salt, whole peppercorns, and cover with a buttered paper. Boil up, and finish cooking in a slow oven—it will take from forty to forty-five minutes. Baste frequently during the time. Brush over with meat glaze, let it acquire a nice golden colour, and take it up. Strain the liquor, skim off the fat, reduce to a glaze, mix in the Madere sauce, and heat up. Dish up the sweetbread on a bread croute. Garnish round with some well-shaped chicken or veal quenelles, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle, pour some of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. Ris de Veau frit aux Epinards [Fried Sweetbread with Spinach). I large or 2 small sweetbreads, | pint thick bechamel or allemande sauce ij lb. cooked spinach (puree), piquante or Robert sauce, salt and pepper I egg, breadcrumbs, and frying-fat. Blanch the sweetbreads, trim, parboil for ten minutes in slightly salted water, cool, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, trim (avoiding waste), season, and coat with well-reduced white sauce, and put on ice. When set, dip in egg and breadcrumb. Place them in a frying-basket and fry in hot fat or lard a golden colour. Dish up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes, fill the425 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. centre with spinach, previonsly heated and well seasoned, give them a pyramidal shape, pour the sauce, previously heated, round the dish, and serve. Ris de Veau a I’lndienne [Sweethread, Indian Style). 1 pair heart sweetbreads, i- pint good stock, border of chicken quenelle meat (p. 178), curry sauce. Steep the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours, blanch, cook until firm and round without being hard, remove from the water, and press till cold. Fold separately in buttered ]taper, braise in half pint of good stock for half an hour, and take them up. When cool cut them in slices with a sharp knife, dish on a border of chicken cptenelle meat, re-heat in the oven, and pour the curry sauce over. Serve plain boiled rice in the centre of the dish. Ris de Veau a la Jardiniere {Bvaised Sweetbread with mixed V egctables). 2 heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, 2 slices streaky bacon, a small bomiuet of herbs, i onion sliced, i carrot sliced, 2 cloves, a few peppercorns, aromatic seasoning, salt, i gill rich stock, meat glaze, -1- oz. butter, jardiniere garnish, a croute of bread. Blanch, cook, and press as directed in preceding recipe, and lard the best sides with strips of larding bacon. Pnt the bacon (cut small), the onion, carrot, butter, herbs, cloves, and peppercorns in a braising-pan, place the sweetbreads on top. Heat over the hre for several minutes, then add the stock, salt, pepper, and aromatics to taste, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from thirty to forty minutes. Baste frequently, and sprinkle the top of the sweetbreads occasionally with liquehed meat glaze. When done transfer the sweetbreads to another pan, remove the fat from the liquor, add a little more meat glaze, reduce to half glaze, and strain over the sweetbreads. Dress the sweetbreads on a fried bread croute, sauce over carefully, garnish with vegetable jardiniere, and serve. Ris de Veau a la Stanley. Cut a large blanched heart sweetbread into slices, and fry them in clarified butter. Dress in a flan-shaped baked paste-crust, previously lined with a thin layer of veal farce, between the slices of sweetbread place a slice of cooked ham, and sauce over with a veloutee sauce flavoured with onion puree, termed veloutee snubisee. Garnish the surface with slices of truffles, cocks’ combs, and cocks’ kernels, heated up in a rich brown sauce. Put the dish in the o\'en for about five minutes, and serve. Ris de Veau a la Toulouse. Braised larded sweetbread, served with slices of tongue, truffles, chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, prepfared in allemande sauce. Garnish with fancy shapaes of fried bread croutons. Ris de Veau a la Louis Philippe {Sweetbread in Cases). I large or 2 small sweetbreads, 6 oz. ham, i oz. butter, i oz. parsley butter, 8 mushrooms, i small onion, i teaspoonful powdered herbs, 2 tablespoon- fuls breadcrumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, i large truffle, 6 oysters, pepper and salt, I pint sauce IMadere,426 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Soeik and blanch the SM'eetbread, and cut in slices about half an inch thick. Chop the ham and mushrooms finely, add the onion, finely chopped, breadcrumbs, and powdered savoury herbs, mix with the egg-yolks and parsley butter, season with pepper ancl salt, and cover the slices of sweetbread completely with this mixture. Put a slice of truffie and a bearded oyster on each slice and enclose separately in buttered paper. Melt a little butter in a saute-pan, put in the papillotes, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up in the papers on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of sauce Madere. They may also be baked in china or paper cases with a tiny piece of butter on top of each. Ris de Veau a la Milanaise {Sweetbread, Milanese Style). I pair heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, a mirepoix, a few slices of carrot and turnip, onion, savoury herbs, and bacon trimmings, i pint rich white stock, seasoning, demi-glace sauce, i gill sherry for garnish, 3 oz. spaghetti, I bread croustade, i oz. grated parmesan, i oz. butter, i truffle, i oz. cooked o.x-tongue, 6 mushrooms, i gill allemande or veloutee sauce. Proceed as directed for “ Ris de Veau a la Jardiniere,” and dish on a fried bread croustade and keep hot. To prepare the garniture Milanaise, break the macaroni into one-inch lengths, cook till tender in slightly salted water, cool, and drain. Heat the sauce, add the grated cheese and the macaroni. Place a few tiny bits of butter on top and keep hot. Cut the tongue, truffle, and mushrooms into fine shreds. Heat the remainder of butter in a stewpan, put in the garnish, toss a few minutes over a brisk fire, season with a pinch of cayenne and a very little nutmeg. Moisten with a little demi-glace, if needed. Arrange the macaroni and the above preparation in alternate groups around the dish. Ris de Veau a la Benevole [Sweetbread with Chestnut Puree). Proceed as directed in “ Ris de Veau a la Jardiniere,” put the chestnut puree (see below) into a forcing-bag, and force out a pretty border on to an oval dish. Let it set in the oven for a few minutes. Dress the sweetbreads in the centre of the border, and serve with Madere sauce. Chestnut Puree [Suitable as Garnish for Entrees, etc.). Boil a pound of large chestnuts for about twenty minutes, remove both skins, boil again in a little stock, and when quite tender rub through a fine wire sieve. Season with salt and pepper, and moisten with a very little brown sauce, tomato sauce or rich stock. Ris de Veau a la Villeroi [Fried Sweetbread or Sweetbread Fritters). Cut one or two cooked (boiled and pressed) sweetbreads into slices, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, coat them with some well-reduced cold veloutee or bechamel sauce. When set, dip them into a well-made, light frying-batter, and fry them in hot fat a golden brown. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato or piquante sauce.427 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Ris de Veau a la Senn.* Blanch, trim, press, and braise two or three sweetbreads, and when cold cut them into slices (escalopes) of even size. Prepare a farce of foie-gras, when ready mix one-fonrth of the quantity of duxelle pnree (p. 140), spread it about a quarter of an inch thick on the slices, and poach them slowly in a saute-pan with a little consomme stock, tlavoured with Madeira wine. Select some arti- chokes of the same size as the slices, and fry in a little butter. When so prepared, sprinkle some truffles cut into very hire julienne strips on the sweetbread slices, dish them up, and sauce over carefully, then garnish with prepared nouilles, mixed with tongue, cut into similar strips as the truffles. Serve with a well-reduced demi- glace sauce tlavoured with a little port wine. Ris de Veau a la Montreuil (Braised Sweetbread, Montreuil Style)- I pair heart sweetbreads, larding bacon, 2 truffles (large), i carrot, i onion. I bouquet garni, bacon trimmings, seasoning, i oz. butter, } pint rich white stock, i gill demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry or Madeira, a little meat glaze, i or 2 crohtes of fried bread for garnish, 6 to 8 small patty- cases. sorrel or spinach pnree, ^ hard-boiled white of egg. Steep the sweetbreads in cokl water for about two hours, blanch, cool, drain, and trim them. Place the breads between two tins or boards. Cut some thin strips of larding bacon and truffles, lard the best sides of the sweetbreads alternately with bacon and truffle (three rows), and braise them as directed in “ Ris de Veau a la Jardi- niere.” Wdren nearly done remove the fat, add a little meat glaze to enable the sweetbreads to be nicely glazed by the time they are completed. Take up the sweetbreads, place them on the croutes, dish up, and keep warm. Strain the liquor, reduce well, brush over the sweetbreads, and add the demi-glace to the liquor. In the meantime, have ready some little tartlet or small dariole moulds lined with short crust or rough puff-paste, baked a nice colour. Heat up the spinach or sorrel, flavoured with a little of the sauce, and well seasoned. All the baked crusts with this, using a forcing-bag to produce a dome-shaped appearance, and ornament tastefully with strips of hard-boiled white of egg, arrange neatly round the sweetbreads, pour a little of the sauce over the latter, serve the remainder in a sauce-boat, and hand round with the dish. Ris de Veau a la Colbert.—Slices of cooked sweetbread, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh hreadcrumbs, and broiled; served with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.—Braised sweetbread garnished with small puff-paste bouchees filled with vegetable macedoine previously tossed in butter. — a la Matignon.—Parboiled sweetbread slightly marinaded in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, and braised ; served with demi- glace sauce. — en Demi-Deuil.—Larded and braised sweetbreads, larded with black truffles only and dressed on bread croutes. Served with veloutee or allemande sauce. * This dish was composed by M. Chevriot, chef to her late .Alajesty Queen Victoria, and served at the dinner given in honour of the Khedive’s visit to Windsor, June 28, igoo.428 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Escalopes de Ris de Veau a la Parmentier [Sweetbyead Cidlcts with Potato Croquettes). I pair of sweetbreads, gill white sauce, bechamel or allemande, i gill tomato sauce, 2 tablespooiifuls finely-chopped cooked lean ham, i dessert- spoonful finely chopped truffles, i dessertspoonful finely chopped preserved mushrooms, 3 eggs, breadcrumbs, lard or butter for frying. For cro- quettes : I lb. mashed potatoes, i teaspoonful parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Wash, blanch, cook, and drain the sweetbreads, and cut them into neat scallops or cutlets. Put the white sauce in a stewpan, add the chopped ham, truffles, and mushrooms, also a couple of tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and spread on a dish to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture over each slice of sweetbread, egg and crumb them twice, and shape them neatly. Fry them in a hot lard or clarified butter a golden brown, drain them on a cloth or paper, and dish up in the form of a border. Have the Parmentier croquettes ready, and range them in the centre of the dish, pour the previously heated tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Parmentier Potato Croquettes. Put the mashed potatoes in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, when hot add the cream and chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, lastly stir in one or two yolks of eggs, and allow to bind. Spread the mixture on a dish, when cold shape into small balls, egg and crumb them, fry in hot fat a light colour, and drain. Rouladines de Veau {Small Veal Rolls). Cut 2lb. of lean veal (fillet to cushion part) into 8 to 10 thin slices, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim them, and season with salt and pepper. Have ready a mixture of finely-chopped parsley, breadcrumbs, butter, and aromatic spice. Spread one side of the veal slices with this, upon this place a thin slice of streaky bacon, roll up each as neatly as possible, and fasten on to skewers. Heat about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, and fry the rolls rather quickly. Pour off the butter, add demi-glace sauce or rich gravy to cover the bottom of the pan, place a piece of buttered paper on top, and finish cooking in the oven. Allow about twenty minutes for this, and baste frequently. Serve in a deep entree dish, and garnish with cubes of fried potatoes and groups of green peas or French beans. Rouelles de Veau ( Veal Cubes, Larded). Cut id lb. of lean veal into even-sized cube shapes, insert a few strips of larding bacon in each cube. Melt 2 oz. butter in a saute- pan, put in the meat, fry over a quick fire for a few minutes, then add 6 chopped mushrooms, 2 finely chopped shallots, and blend together. Sprinkle in a tablespoonful of flour, stir, and moisten with a gill of beef stock or a’ glass of Chablis, bring to the boil, simmer for twenty minutes, season with salt and pepper, add chopped parsley, half gill of cream, and two yolks of eggs. Keep on the hot stove for another twenty minutes, and serve.429 HOT MEAT ENTREES. ETC. VoI-au-Vent de Ris de Veau. I lb. pufY-pastc or Icuilletage (p. 133), i large heart sweetbread, i ox. blitter, 18 small preserved mushrooms, 2 slices ox-tongue, i gill Madeira sauce, salt and pepper, i egg. The puff-paste must be prepared with special care for this dish, and should have at least hve turns. Roll it out to about an inch in thickness, then, with the help of a dessert plate, cut the paste with the point of a sharp knife to the size required. Turn it on to a baking-sheet, brush the surface very carefully and evenly with beaten egg-yolk, mark the centre with a large round paste-cutter by making an incision about an inch from the edge of the paste. \Vith the point of a knife trace a few lines in the centre ring, and bake in an evenly heated but not too hot oven from thirty to forty minutes. When done, lift up the co\’er, and take out some of the interior of the pastry. Keep the vol-au-vent warm till wanted. \\'ash, trim, parboil, drain, and pare the sweetbread, cut it into convenient slices, fry them in the saute-pan with the butter, pour off the butter, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, etc. Add the Madeira sauce, the tongue, cut into dice or strips, and the mushrooms cut into slices. Cook this for some minutes. Fill the vol-au-vent with this preparation, place it on a hot dish, put on the lid, and serve immediately. Souffle de Veau (]^eal Souffle). I lb. lean veal, i gill bechamel sauce, i gill double cream, 3 eggs, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, i small truffle, supreme sauce. Free the meat from all skin and gristle, cut it up very small, and pound in a mortar until quite smooth, add gradually the butter, yolks of three eggs, and one white of egg, also the sauce (cold), season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Whisk two Avhites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat up the cream a little, and mix both carefully with forcemeat. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered timbale or ;[)lain charlotte mould, with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped truflies, and three parts hll it with the preparation. Steam gently for about an hour. Unmould and serve with supreme or other good w’hite sauce. Tendrons de Veau a la Jardiniere {Tendrons of Veal). About 3 lb. neck of veal, 8 to 10 thin slices of bacon, i carrot, i onion, I bay-leaf, a few sprigs of pai'sley and thyme, i oz. butter, t pint white stock, I glass Chablis, meat glaze, salt and pepper, jardiniere of' vegetables. Free the meat from the bones, pare off the skin, cut into scallops or small hllets a little larger than oyster-shells, blanch, press, and let cool. Trim neatly into shape, season lightly with salt and pepper, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, place in a saute-pan with the butter on a bed of sliced onion, carrot, and herbs. Moisten with the stock and wine, cover with a lid, and stew' gently in the oven or on the stove for about an hour. When done, drain off the liquor into another sante-pan, remove the fat, add some meat glaze, and reduce to about half the original quantity. Put the tendrons in with the glaze, and allow’ them to get well coated. Dish up on430 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. a border of mashed potatoes, and serve a jardiniere of vegetables in the centre of the dish. Note.—The portion of meat used for tendrons is situated near the thin edge of the breast, and may, in other words, be called the gristly portion of the breast-bone. The tendrons, when cooked, should be quite soft, and the gristle portion should have become almost transparent. Tendrons de Veau a la Palestine. \ breast of veal, ^ carrot, I turnip, t- onion, i bouquet garni, 3 cloves, a few peppercorns, i quart stock, i glass sherry, 4 pint Espagnole sauce, 6 small artichoke bottoms, i lb. Jerusalem artichokes, i tablespoonful white sauce, J oz. butter, pepper and salt. Remove the skin and bone from the breast, cut the tendrons into squares or heart shajfes, and blanch them in salted water. Drain well, and place in a stewpan on a bed of carrot, turnip, onion, and bouquet of herbs. Add peppercorns, cloves, stock, and wine, cover, and cook very slowly for about two hours. When done, take up carefully and place between two boards or dishes, and let them cool. Reduce the stock, add the sauce, season to taste, and reduce again to half glaze. Trim the tendrons, and re-heat in the sauce, previously freed from grease. Wash, scrape, and slice the arti- chokes, cook till tender in milk and water, drain, rub through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, add a little butter and the sauce. Heat up, bind with a yolk of egg, and pile on the artichoke bottoms in the form of a dome. Sprinkle with white breadcrumbs, put a small bit of butter here and there, place in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up the tendrons in a circle, garnish the centre with the artichokes, pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Spinach, green peas or any other suitable vegetable may be served in place of artichokes. Roulade de Veau au Madere.—Rolled fillet or boned loin of veal stuffed and braised ; served with Madere sauce. Ragout de Veau {Brown Veal Stew).—Pieces of breast or other parts of veal, fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce with some musli- rooms, carrots, turnips, and button onions. ROGNONS DE VEAU—CALF’S KIDNEYS. Rognons de Veau aux CEufs brouilles. I large or 2 small calves’ kidneys, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, i gill Madeira sauce, I teaspoonful finely chopped parsley or chives, 4 eggs, salt and pepper. Remove skin and fat, cut the kidney into very thin slices, and season with salt and pepper. Fry the shallots in an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, add the kidney slices, and toss over a quick fire for five minutes. Add the Madeira sauce, and let cook gently for ten minutes. Beat up the eggs, add about a tablespoonful of milk, season to taste, and put it in a stewpan with the remainder of butter. Stir over the fire till it thickens, dress the kidney in a circle on a hot dish, pile the scrambled eggs in the centre, sprinkle with chopped parsley or chive, and serve at once.HOT MEAT ENTRliES, ETC. 4^1 Rognons de Veau sautes. Thinly sliced veal kidneys, tossed in butter, with a little shallot or onion finely chopped, sprinkled with a little liour, moistened with white wine and stock, and stewed for a few minutes. Rognons de Veau a la Bordelaise. Thinly cut veal kidneys, fried in butter and stewed in red wine sance with chopped shallots and parsley, and dice shapes of fried potatoes. Rognons de Veau a la DemidofT. Thinly sliced veal kidneys, fried in butter with sliced mush- rooms, chopped parsley, and stewed in sauce IMadere, dressed in a border of stewed savoury rice mixed with chopped truffles. TETE DE VEAU—CALF’S HEAD. Tete de Veau en Tortue [Calf’s Head, Turtle Style). Wash half a calf’s head well, and rub with a coarse cloth. Bone carefully, cutting from the centre of the head down to the nostrils. Wash and blanch the flesh, jiut in the stewpan an ounce of flour, add a quart of water and a teaspoonful of vinegar, an onion, three cloves, a bunch of herbs, one carrot, and a bay-leaf. Cut the meat of the head into convenient pieces, remove the centre of the ears, put them into the stewpan, add two or three quarts of stock, and boil slowly till tender. Skim occasionally. When done, put as many pieces as may be recpiired (the remainder will keep if put with the stock into an earthenware pan) in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, cover, and boil five minutes, season to taste, and add garnishing a la Tortue (p. 345). Cook for fifteen minutes longer, dish up, garnish with fried bread crotitons, glazed over, and fried parsley, and serve. Note.—The brain should be removed, washed, and kept in water till wanted. The tongue can be cooked at the same time or may be served as a separate dish. Tete de Veau a la Poulette.—Cook half a calf’s head as in the foregoing recipe. Add about one pint of poulette sauce, omitting the sherry and tortue garnishing. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, dish r:p, and serve. If it is found that the sauce is too thick, add a little milk or cream. — a la Vinaigrette.—Wash, blanch, and cook as above, drain well, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley and serve with a boat of vinaigrette sauce, consisting of one gill of best oil, rather more than half a gill of vinegar, pepper, salt, chopped chervil, parsley, olives, and one small shallot. — a la Cavour.—Proceed as above ; finish cooking in tomato sauce. adding garnishing a la Cavour. Dish up, garnish neatly, and serve. — a la Sainte-Menehoulde.—Boiled as for “Calf’s head en Tortue,” cut up, and dished in a well-buttered dish, covered with oiled butter, veloutee sauce, yolks of eggs, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in the oven.432 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Tete de Veau a la Tyrolienne.—Proceed the same as directed for “ Calf’s head en Tortue,” then cut it into slices, dip them in frying batter and fry in clarified butter. Garnish with fried parsley and lemon quarters, and serve with tomato sauce mixed with finely chopped gherkins. — a ritalienne.—Boiled calf’s head cut into slices or small pieces, then stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms, shallots, white wine, and tomato puree. — a I’Americaine.—Blanched, boiled calf’s head, boned and stewed in tomato sauce with peeled tomatoes, chopped parsley, and fennel. — a I’Anglaise.—Calf’s head stewed in brown sauce, garnished with calf’s brain fritters and sippets of bread. — a la Destilliere.—Calf’s head stewed in brown sauce, with sliced ox- tongue, gherkins, and mushrooms ; garnished with pieces of calf’s brain and slices of pickled beetroot. — en Escalopes.—Boiled and boned calf’s head, cut into slices, steeped in oil and vinegar, sprinkled with chopped parsley, dipped in frying batter or egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat or clarified butter. — frite a la Tartare.—Boiled and boned calf’s head cut into small pieces, pickled in oil and vinegar, drained, then egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tartare sauce. Timbale de Veau a la Cardinal {Veal Timbale). I lb. veal, 3 whites of eggs, salt, pepper, i pimiento, 12 prawns, i|- gill veloutee sauce, i oz. crayfish butter, 4 gill cream, 2 oz, ox-tongue, 6 mush- rooms, I oz. butter, i shallot, i new kidney potato, lobster coral or spawn, 8 glazed lieurons, i liatelet. Free the meat from skin and sinews, cut one-fourth of it into line shreds, and pound the remainder in a mortar till smooth, adding to it by degrees the whites of eggs and a little cream. Work in enough lobster coral or spawn to give the farce a pink tint, season well with aromatic herbs, etc., and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a timbale mould, spread the farce thickly on the inside, keep on the ice till wanted. With the shredded veal make a Hungarian Goulash ; fry the meat in butter with a blended chopped shallot, add the tongue, cooked potato (cut in dice shapes), pimiento, and mushrooms, all cut into dice, also 8 of the prawn tails ; moisten with a little veloutee sauce. Put this mixture into the coated mould and fill up with the remainder of the farce ; poach for forty minutes. Prepare a rich sauce with the veloutee sauce and crayfish butter. Unmould the timbale on a hot dish, sauce over carefully, and surmount the shape with the remaining four prawns and a small hatelet in the centre. Garnish with fleurons, and serve. Timbales de Veau a la Marechale. 6 oz. lean veal, 3 to 4 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, 3 to 4 slices of cooked o.x-tongue, i truffle, seasoning, 4 oz. butter, tomato sauce. Cut up the veal, pound it in a mortar till quite smooth, add the panade, the egg-yolks one at a time, the cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, stamp out some rounds of tongue about the size of the bottoms ofhOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. 433 the moulds, cut out the centre by means of a column cutter, and place the rounds thus obtained in the bottoms of the moulds. Slice the truffles, stamp out some rounds, and put them in the centre of the tongue. Choj) the trimmings of truffle and tongue finely, and put with the farce. Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Fill the buttered moulds with this, place them in a saute-pan containing enough boiling water to three-parts cover the moulds. Place a buttered paper on them, and cook in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and ser\'t\ Veau saute a la Marengo {Brown ]'cal Steio). Slices of cushion or fillet of ^'eal, fried, and braised (or etouffc) with sliced mushrooms, truffles, chopped shallots, tomato and Espagnole sauce, flavoured with sherry. Disli up in pyramidal form, garnish with eggs, fried whole in ^'ery hot sweet oil, the same as for “ Marengo of Chicken.” Veal and Ham Pie {a Luncheon or Supper Dish). ir lb. to ij lean veal {fillet or cushion part is best for this purpose), about I- lb. raw or cooked ham, 2 hard-boiled eggs, a couple of rashers of streaky bacon, chopped parsley, } teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, stock or water, about 4 lb. of pult-paste (p. 133), i fresh egg- Free the veal from skin and sinews, cut it and the ham into thin slices. Place the veal, ham, and bacon in layers in a pie-dish, to each layer add a few slices of hard-boiled egg, and sprinkle with a little seasoning, salt, pepper, lemon-rind, and chopped parsley— one teaspoonful of salt and a quarter teaspoonful of pepper in all should be used—add a pinch of nutmeg at the last. Put in about half a gill of stock or water. Line the edge of the pie-dish with EETHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 434 a strip of paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and put on the cover. Trim oh the edges, make a hole in the centre of the paste, and decorate with leaves and a rosette in the centre. Brush over the whole with egg, bake in a moderate oven for about one and a half to one and three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot or cold. If this pie is to be served cold, dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, mix with a teaspoonful of “ Lemco ” or meat glaze, and pour this into the pie as it leaves the oven. BCEUF—BEEF. The diagrams on page 435 show the various joints of a prime ox, as divided or cut up in England and on the Continent. The diherent fillets—filets mignons, tournedos, ordinary fillet, Chateau- briand, sirloin steak, entre-cote, and contre-filet—are included in the illustrations to show their respective shapes and sizes. Special Note.—It will be well to remember that the same method of cooking and garnishing can be applied to either filets tournedos or filets mignons by adopting the styles mentioned. Aiguillettes de Boeuf a la Brazza. 2 thick slices of sirloin of beef, cut longwise, larding bacon, a clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, 4 pint claret, 4 pint stock or brown sauce, i tin or bottle of cepes or morels (morilles), pepper and salt, meat glaze. To prepare this dish succes.sfully a fireproof earthenware casse- role is necessary. Free the meat from fat, lard one side of each with strips of bacon, put the meat in the casserole, add pepper and salt, wine, garlic, and bay-leaves, and let it stand covered for six hours. Place it on the fire, adding the stock or sauce, let it come to the boil, skim, and simmer very gently in the oven or on the stove for one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the meat. When done, take up, drain, place it on a dish, glaze the top with meat glaze. Skim the gravy, reduce well, heat up the cepes or morels in a little gravy, garnish the dish with this, and serve the remainder of gravy in a sauce-boat. Filets de Bceuf a I’Athenienne. About 2 lb. fillet of beef, larding bacon, a pint of mirepoix (carrot, turnip, onion, bay-leaf, bacon, etc.), -1- gill Marsala, i oz. butter, 8 small cooked artichoke bottoms, 2 egg-plants (aubergines), macedoine of vegetables, -J- gill bechamel sauce, 4 pint Espagnole sauce, gill brown stock, a little stewed rice for dishing up, salt and pepper. Trim the fillet, cut into even-sized slices about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten and trim a little, lard them with small strips of larding bacon. Put the mirepoix and butter in a saute-pan, when hot, lay in the fillets, larded side upwards, season with salt and pepper, put them in a hot oven until they take colour, then add the wine and stock, cover with a buttered paper, and continue cooking in the oven until tender. Take out the fillets, remove the fat from the mirepoix, add the brown sauce, cook over the fire for ten minutes, skim, and strain. Prepare the macedoine ofPRIMK OX, SHOWING THK VARIOUS PARTS USED FOR436 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. vegetables with some carrots, turnips, cut with a vegetable scoop, together with some French beans and peas, cook separately in salted water, strain, moisten with bechamel sauce, and season to taste. Pile the macedoine on the artichoke bottoms, and place them on a saute-pan in the oven to get hot. Cook the egg-plants, cut into thick slices when cold, egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Have ready some cooked rice, nicely seasoned, put a layer of the rice in the centre of an oblong dish, dress the hllets neatly on this, surround with lilled artichoke bottoms and fried egg-plant. Pour a little well-reduced sauce over the fillets, and serve the remainder separately. This dish can be served as remove or joint by leaving the fillet whole. Coeurs de Filets de Boeuf a la Careme. Cut six to eight half-inch-thick slices from a fillet of beef (middle cut), flatten them a little, trim into round shapes) and season with salt and pepper. With the thin blade of a knife make an incision sufficiently large to receive a slice of truffled foie-gras pate. Heat about one and a half ounces of butter in a sautffipan, put in the fillets and saute them over a cjuick fire. At the end of this process add a finely-chopped shallot and lightly fry. Have ready a pint of cooked asparagus points, finished in a little butter and nicely seasoned, also about a gill of perigord sauce. Dress the fillets on croutes in a circle in the centi'e of a round dish, sauce over carefully with perigord sauce, put the asparagus points in the centre of the dish, and serve. Filets de Boeuf a la Chateaubriand. 3 double fillets, each weighing about i6 oz., sweet oil, Parisienne potatoes, maitre d’hotel butter, Chateaubriand sauce, seasoning. The name Chateaubriand is given to a double fillet, cut from the centre of a fillet of beef, the weight varying from sixteen to twenty ounces. Trim and pare the fillets neatly, and flatten slightly so that each is about three-quarters of an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper, baste freely with oil, and broil over a slow but regular fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to taste— if wanted rare sixteen minutes will suffice. Place them on a hot dish and serve with maitre d’hotel butter, or surround with “ Parisienne potatoes,” and pour Chateaubriand sauce over the meat, and serve. The latter is the correct v\my if the above-named dish is required. A plain Chateaubriand is served with maitre d’hotel butter only. Filets de Bcsuf a la Colbert. About 2 lb. fillet of beef, 3 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls sweet oil (Provence), 3 shallots, I' glass Marsala or sherry wine, i4gill Espagnole sauce, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, salt, pepper, cayenne or paprika, Parisienne potatoes, fried bread croutes. Trim and pare the piece of fillet, cut it crossways into about eight slices, flatten them slightly, and season with pepper and salt. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add the oil, when hot put in the small fillets and fry over a brisk fire for a few minutes. They must be fried quickly on both sides, and must be underdone.HOT MEAT ENTIH'HCS, ETC. 437 Pour off most of the tut, put iu the chopped shallots, try lightly, add the wine aud the sauce. Stir and boil for a few minutes, gradually add in little bits about an ounce of butter, season with cayenne or paprika pepper, salt it needed, half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Return the fillets to this sauce, mix well, but avoid boiling again. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with small round fried potatoes (pommes Parisienne), surround the base of the dish with six to eight heart-shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter, and send to table hot. Filets de Boeuf a la Garibaldi. 2i lb. fillet of beef (middle cut), about | lb. beef marrow, i large truflie, ^ lb. ham, 3 eggs, i oz. butter, tomato or piejuante sauce, salt and pepper, nutmeg, macaroni croquettes for garnish. Cut the fillet into slices about a ciuarter of an inch thick, beat them a little with a wet knife, and stamp or cut out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Cut a corresponding number of thin round slices of marrow, blanch, and keep till required. Re- move skin and fat from the trimmings of the fillet, cut up small, pound in a mortar till smooth, add suet and marrow, about half the quantity that there is meat, pound together thoroughly, mix in the yolks of two eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and rub through a wire sieve. Season the fillets, put a thin slice of blanched marrow and a slice of truffle on each, placing a thin layer of beef farce between them. Put a thin slice of bacon, as nearly as possible the size of the fillets, on the top of each fillet, and press the whole slightly. Cover over completely with a thin layer of farce, chop finely the trimmings of truflie, dip the fillets in white of egg, sprinkle the surface with chopped truffle. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the fillets and broil over a quick fire for a few minutes, then cover with a buttered paper, and finish in a hot oven. When clone, take up, dress in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Sauce over with well-reduced tomato or piquante sauce, garnish the sides with fried macaroni croquettes, and serve hot. Filets de Boeuf piques a la Reyniere {Larded Fillets of Beef). Middle cut of fillet (about 3 lb.), i large truffle, i glass sherry, i small carrot, i small turnip, i small onion, 10 peppercorns, i bouquet garni, larding bacon, 4 even-sized tomatoes, 8 small potatoes, 2 oz, butter, I Spanish onion, 2 oz. parmesan cheese, i oz. breadcrumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, 8 rounds of bread croutes, i quart of stock, i gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, meat glaze. Free the fillet from skin, sinew, and fat ; trim a little, and cut into eight even-sized slices or fillets. Lard one side of each fillet with strips of bacon and truffle, butter thickly a saute-pan, place the fillets in it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover with sliced vegetables, herbs, peppercorns, and trimmings of bacon. Broil both sides of the fillets a little, add the sherry and stock, cover with a lid or buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about twenty minutes. Take out the fillets, put them on a dish, and keep hot. Remove fat from the lic]uor, add the brown sauce, boil gently for438 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ten minutes, and strain. Boil the Spanish onion in salted water. Peel the potatoes, cut the ends, scoop out the centre with a column- cutter, prepare a mixture with the Spanish onion finely chopped, grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, egg-yolks, and one ounce of butter. Fry the potatoes in hot fat or lard, drain and cool, then fill with the prepared stuffing. Cut the tomatoes in halves, broil slightly in butter, put a stuffed potato on the cut side of each tomato, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes. Dish up the fillets on fancifiilly cut croutes of fried bread, brush their surface with dissolved meat glaze, garnish round the dish with the stuffed potatoes and tomatoes. Pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Filets de Boeuf a la Viennoise. -lb. lean beef, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful savoury herbs, 3 oz. butter, i tablespoonful flour, 3 onions, 2 eggs, i gill demi-glace sauce, salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Remove the sinews from the meat, cut it into small pieces, chop very fine, or pass twice through the mincing-machine. Mix with it the chopped parsley, savoury herbs, a little flour, one whole and one yolk of egg, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Form some even-sized balls, flatten them with the palm of your hand to produce the shape of round fillets. Peel and slice the onions, divide the rings carefully, and reserve the largest for frying separ- ately. Dis- solve about an ounce of butter in a frying - pan, fry the sliced onions a gol- den colour, put them in a small stew- pan, with sufficient brown sauce to keep moist, and allow to simmer gently for about twenty ’ minutes. Dredge the prepared fillets with a little flour, and fry in butter in a saute-pan. Dip the onion rings into flour, then into white of egg, and again in flour, place them in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour. Dish up the fillets, put a spoonful of stewed onions on the centre of each. Ornament round the fillets with the fried onion rings, sauce over the fillets with demi-glace sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of meat glaze, and serve. Filets de Boeuf aux Bananes {Fillets of Beef with Bananas). 2 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 4 bananas, i small onion, i gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, meat glaze, hor.se-radish, chopped parsley, frying-fat, pepper and salt, flour, breadcrumbs, brown sauce.HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. 439 Trim the lillet, cut it crossways into eight even-sized slices or hllets, pare these into round shapes, season with pepper and salt. Broil both sides in butter over a quick tire lor about eight minutes, take up, glaze over with meat glaze, and keep hot. Choj), blanch, drain, and fry the onion without browning in the butter in which the hllets were cooked, add the cream, stir till hot (not boiling), add the yolks of egg and let bind, rub through a strainer, and keep hot. Peel the bananas, split each in two and divide in halves, crossways, dip in Hour, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish up the hllets on a hot dish, mi.x some hnely grated horse-radish with the sauce, and put a spoonful of it on top of each hllet, sprinkle over with liquid meat glaze and chopped parsley, garnish with fried bananas, and serve with brown sairce. Filets Mignons a la Beaufremont. 2 lb. fillet of beef, i egg, 2 oz. fresh butter, fresh breadcrumbs, lb. macaroni, i oz. grated cheese, 3 truffles, 2 oz. meat glaze, i pint tomato sauce, I gill Madere sauce, pepper and salt. Cut about eight small slices from the hllet, trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and crumb them. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the hllets, and bake in a hot oven for about hfteen minutes, turning them occasionally. Have ready some macaroni blanched in salted water, boil in a little stock until tender, and hnish with tomato sauce and grated cheese. Dress the hllets cii coui'oiuie on a round dish, place the macaroni in the centre. Cut the truffles into thin strips, sprinkle over the macaroni, reduce the remainder of tomato sauce with the Madere sauce and meat glaze, and serve with the dish. Filets Mignons a la Castelaine. 6-8 very small fillets of beef, i J oz. fresh butter, 2 finely chopped shallots, I dessertspoonful chopped parsley, i glass Chablis, 8 to 10 neat slices lobster (meat), pepper and salt, sauce Pompadour, meat glaze for garnish, small fish quenelles (p. 177), stuffed olives (olives farcies), and slices of truffles, glazed. Flatten the hllets a little, trim them into neat round shapes, season to taste. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the hllets, fry quickly over a brisk hre to slightly brown both sides. Boil the shallots in the wine for hve minutes, add this with the parsley to the hllets, cover the pan, and cook c^uickly for about hve minutes. Dress the hllets on a dish, warm the slices of lobster in the liquor left from the hllets, place a slice between the hllets, and keep hot. Pour the sauce into the pan containing the liquor, re-heat, skim off the fat, and pour over the hllets. Garnish with slices of truffles, stuffed olives, heated up in liquehed meat glaze, also a few very small hsh quenelles, poached in hsh stock ; sprinkle a little meat glaze over the latter, and serve. Filets Mignons a la Dauphine. 2-},- lb. fillet of beef, i small onion, i small carrot, i bouquet of herbs, i glass Chablis, gill oil, i ?, oz. buffer, pepper and salt, larding bacon, lb. potato puree, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, i truffle, a handful cooked spinach, I gill tomato sauce, 6 potato croquettes (a la Dauphine), i glass sherrv, a handful cooked rice, 6 small artichoke bottoms.440 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Trim the fillet and cut into eight neatly-shaped pieces, flatten a little with the cutlet-bat, insert in each a few strips of larding bacon, season with pepper and salt. Lay them on a bed of sliced carrot and onion, and the herbs, moisten with Chablis and oil, let remain to soak for about one hour or more. Cook the rice in a little stock, season, and keep till wanted. Prepare the potato croquettes, egg, crumb, fry, and keep hot. Drain the flllets on a cloth, fry in butter over a quick fire for about six minirtes, leaving them underdone. Take up the fillets, and keep hot. Pour the butter from the pan, add the sherry, reduce to half, then add the tomato sauce, and cook a few minutes. Chop the chicken meat and trirffle, moisten with a little sauce, season to taste, and fill the artichoke bottoms with this mixture. Cover the surface well with cooked spinach, previously rubbed through a sieve and sea- soned, place a tiny piece of butter on each, and put in the oven for about ten minutes to get hot through. Arrange the rice neatly on a dish, and on it dish the fillets. Garnish the sides alternately with a stuffed artichoke and a potato croquette, pour a little sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Filets Mignons a la Genoise. lb. fillet of beef, beef marrow, 3 to 4 large potatoes, 2 oz. butter, meat glaze, Genoise sauce. Cut the fillets into eight or nine very small rounds, about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten, pare, and season. Peel the potatoes and scoop out some small marble shapes, blanch, and finish cooking in hot fat or in the oven with a little butter. Blanch and broil the marrow. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the little fillets, fry over a quick fire, slightly browning both sides. Pour off the butter, brush the fillets with liquid meat glaze, dish up in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes or peas, put a small piece of cooked marrow on top of each. Arrange the potatoes in groups round the dish, sprinkle with some chopped parsley, sauce over the fillets with Genoise sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a bowl or boat. Filets de Boeuf a la Quirinal. 8 small fillets of beef (weighing about 5 ounces), i tin foie-gras naturel, 2 large truffles, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 2 small carrots (young), I glass sherry, 8 champignons, i tablespoonful Lemco (Liebig Co.’s extract of beef), i gill demi-glace sauce, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper, Parisian potatoes. Flatten the fillets slightly, pare and trim them round. Insert a few strips of larding bacon in each so as to form a star. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire, slightly browning both sides. Saute eight neat slices of foie-gras in the same butter. Dress the fillets and foie-gras escalopes alternately on a round dish in the form of a circle. Prepare the sauce as follows : Cut the red part of the carrots, champignons, and one shallot into small dice. Cook the carrot and shallot dice in a little stock, mince finely the other shallot, and fry in butter.44 r HOT MEAT ENTREES. ETC. add the wine and vegetable dice, cover, and cook for ten minutes, skim, add the sauce and half a tablespoonful of Lemco. Season the sauce with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and flavour with lemon-juice. Cut the truffle into slices, dissolve the remainder of meat extract with a few drops of stock, glaze the slices of truffle in this, and place them on top of the fillets. Sauce over the whole carefully, and fill the centre with Parisian potatoes. Coeurs de Filets de Bceuf a la Rossini. About 21- lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 6 large chicken livers, i truffle, 8 round pieces of fried bread, gill Lucca oii, i shallot, 2 oz. foie-gras, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce. Wash the livers and cut them into fine slices. Fry the finely- chopped shallot in butter, put in the liver, toss over the fire for a few minutes, season, pound in a mortar with the foie-gras and a large tablespoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve. Pare the fillet, cirt it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly (each slice should weigh from three to three and a half ounces when trimmed). Put a quarter of a gill of oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan. \Mren hot put in the fillets, cook over a quick fire, leaving them rather nnderdone ; they will take from five to seven minutes at the most, and season with salt and pepper. Divide the farce equally, spread a portion on top of each fillet, place them on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat glaze, dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each, and'serve with demi- glace sauce. Filets Mignons a la Rothschild. 2 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, a little meat glaze, a tablespoonful of finely grated horse-radish, h gill cream, 2 lb. mashed potatoes, 2 eggs, bread- crumbs, I sour cooking-apple, clarified butter for frying purposes, 6-8 preserved mushrooms, seasoning, tomato sauce. Trim the fillet of beef and cut crossways six to eight even-sized slices, pare them neatly, and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a saute-pan, and fry the fillets on both sides over a brisk fire, but let them be rather underdone in the centre. Mix the mashed potatoes, horse-radish, and cream in a stewpan over the fire. When thoroughly hot work in a couple of egg-yolks, stir until the latter begin to bind, then season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and spread the mixture on a dish or plate. Shape the same number of even-sized balls as there are fillets, flatten to about the same shape and thickness as the fillets. Egg, crumb, fry them in clarified butter, drain and keep hot. Remove the stalks of the preserved mushrooms, and toss them in the butter irsed for frying the fillets. Peel and core the apple, and cut it into thin slices, dip them in milk and flour, and fry in hot clarified butter. Place the ]iotato shapes on a hot dish, put a fillet upon each, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and place a slice of fried apple on top of them, with a mushroom-head in the centre of the apple slices. Ponr some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 442 It is safest to leave the frying of the fillets till almost the last. It will only take about five or six minutes to fry them underdone. Note.—For other Fillets, see page 451. Tournedos de Boeuf a Flmperatrice. ij lb. fillet of beef, 6 small tomatoes, 2 oz. clarified butter, 6 croutons of bread, pint cooked asparagus points, 4 gill bearnaise sauce, seasoning, demi-glace sauce, julienne potatoes as garnish. Trim the fillet and divide it into six small slices, pare these, season with salt and pepper, and fry them carefully in the clarified butter. Scoop out the centre of the tomatoes and fill them with asparagus points, seasoned, and moistened with a little white sauce. Place them on a buttered saute-pan and cook in the oven. Dress the fillets on an oval dish, upon the croutons of bread, arrange the tomatoes round the dish, and put a tablespoonful of bearnaise sauce on each fillet, garnish with julienne potatoes (very finely shredded fried straw potatoes). Pour a little hot demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Tournedos de Boeuf a I’Aixoise. Saute or broil in butter some neatly-cut tournedos (fillets of beef cut small) in sufficient butter, dress them on croquettes made of fresh cepes. Garnish the dish with halves of fried tomatoes, green peas or small rounds of new potatoes, fried. Serve with demi-glace or moelle sauce. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Seymour. Cut some thin slices of fillet of beef, trim them, and saute them i n butter. Season to taste, and place each on an arti- choke bot- tom p r e- V i o u s 1 y heated and seas oned. Dish up in a circle, cover each with a well-flavoured bearnaise sauce, place a slice of truffle on each, and fill the centre with stuffed French olives. Sauce over with demi-glace, and serve. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Madeleine. Cut eight slices of fillet of beef^ of equal size, each weighing about a quarter of a pound, beat them a little and trim neatly. Prepare as many croutons of bread, the same size as the tournedos, fry them in clarified butter, and drain. Warm up in a small earthen pan three ounces of meat glaze, work in with a wooden spoon gradually four ounces of fresh butter, stirring vigorously443 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. until it resembles a light creamy substance, adding in the mean- time the juice of one large lemon, one shallot, a sprig each of tarragon, chervil, chive, and a few sprigs of parsley, all chopped very fine, season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Parboil about two ounces new kidney potatoes, previously scraped, drain, and fry them a good colour in butter, season with salt and pepper, and when done sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put a little butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the tournedos, brown quickly on both sides, season with pepper and salt, dish up each on a crouton of bread, place them on a dish, pnt the potatoes round the tournedos in rows, and a dessertspoonful of the prepared butter on the top of each, leaving a little space in the centre for a few drops of dissolved meat glaze ; serve quickly. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Moscovienne. Prepare the tournedos as directed above, and lard them in alternate rows with small strips of larding bacon, raw ham, and truffles. Place the tournedos in a flat stewpan, cover them with a few slices of fat bacon, add half a sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a small bunch of savoury herbs. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine and a gill of brown stock. Cover and cook briskly over the fire from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain the tournedos, remove the bacon, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce and a dessertspoonful of grated horse-radish to the liquor. Let all reduce well, and strain into a small stewpan. Remove all fat, finish the sauce with a pinch of castor sugar and an ounce of fresh buffer, worked in bit b}^ bit, and keep it warm. Glaze and dish up the tournedos, garnish with alternate groups of button mushrooms, previously warmed in well-reduced stock, and medium- sized stuffed onions (see below). Pour the sauce over the garnish (not over the meat), and serve. Stuffed Onions a la Moscovienne. Peel eight to ten medium-sized onions, parboil them in salted water, with a small piece of butter, drain on a cloth, and cool. Carefnlly scoop out the centre part of each onion, and chop very fine, with about half its quantitv of mushrooms. Put it in a stew- pan with a handful of breadcrumbs, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with a little Espagnole sauce, mix well, and stuff the centre of the onions with same. Place them on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle the top with fresh breadcrumbs, put a small bit of butter on each one, and bake in a moderate oven a golden colour, which will take about half an hour. Tournedos de Boeuf a la Napoleon. 2 to 3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter. 4 oz. calves’ liver, 2 oz. foie-gras, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. fat bacon, i shallot finely chopped, i egg, i oz. meat glaze, stoned olives, i oz. panade, salt and pepper, bordelaise sauce, marrow-fat. Trim fhe piece of fillet, and cut it in very small pieces. Grill or broil them in a little butter for about six minutes (they must be444 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. underdone), and place them between two boards to press and cool. Cut the liver into slices, and mince the bacon evenly. Melt a little butter, add the shallots, fry a golden colour, then add the bacon and liver, toss over the fire for about five minutes, season to taste, and put on a plate. When cool, pound in a mortar, together with the tongue and foie-gras, add the panade and egg, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Spread one side of each fillet thickly with this farce, stuff as many stoned olives as there are fillets with the same. Cook the fillets for a few minutes in the oven, brush over with meat glaze. Put the olives in a buttered saute-pan in the oven, and cook for six minutes. Blanch the marrow (cut into very small rounds), drain, and warm up in the sauce Bordelaise. Dish the fillets on a potato border, put again in the oven to heat them thoroughly. Put a stuffed olive and a round of marrow on each fillet, sauce over and round with well- reduced bordelaise sauce, and serve. Note.—For other Tournedos, see page 454. Cotelettes Parisiennes a I’Ecarlate {Ox-Tongue Cutlets). 2 lb. cooked ox-tongue, 4 lb. raw chicken meat, 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 oz. suet, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne, i gill demi-glace and tomato sauce, i dessertspoonful meat glaze, I oz. butter. Cut the tongue into eight to ten slices, give them the shape of cutlets, prepare a stiff forcemeat mixture with the remnants of tongue, the chicken, ham, suet, panade, and eggs, pound and pass through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, and the chopped parsley. Butter some small cutlet-moulds, fill them with the forcemeat, and steam them in the oven. Place the tongue cutlets in a well-buttered saute-pan, add a ladleful of gravy or stock, let them get thoroughly warm, glaze them over with dissolved meat glaze, turn the cutlets from the moulds, dish up alternately a cutlet of tongue with a cutlet of forcemeat, in a circular form. Have ready the demi-glace sauce, well flavoured with tomato sauce, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. Gullasch de Boeuf (Gulias-huis) {Hungarian Beef Stew). I lb. lean beef (sirloin or rib), 4 onion, 3 oz. butter, i teaspoonful caraway seeds, i dessertspoonful of flour, i gill brown stock, 2 small potatoes, 4 oz. bacon, 1- wineglassful of Madeira, 4 teaspoonful of salt, a pincb of paprika XDepper. Trim the meat and cut it into small dice, wash and peel the potatoes, cut them likewise in dice, together with the bacon ; tie the caraway seeds in a piece of muslin cloth. Melt half the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, add the onion finely chopped and fry a little, just enough to slightly colour them ; add the meat, season with salt and pejiper, and let it cook in a hot oven or over a bright fire for about ten minutes. Sprinkle in the flour, moisten with the wine and stock, add the tied-up caraway seeds, and let it simmer slowly. Melt the remainder of the butter in a frying-pan, add the bacon, and fry a little ; now add the potatoes and cook them slowly overHOT MEAT ENTRfiES, ETC. 445 the lire until of a nice golden colour ; pour oft the superfluous fat, mix with the meat, cover over, and allow to simmer gently until the meat and potatoes are cpiite done. Stir from time to time, remove the caraway seeds, dish up on a hot dish, and serve very hot. Note.—Coarsely-minced apples are sometimes added, and cooked with the meat. Entre-cotes grilles, Edouard VII. [Grilled Sirloin Steaks). 2-3 sirloin steaks, 2 oz. maitre d'hotel butter, olive oil, salt and pepper, I gill well-reduced tomato puree, 2 egg-yolks, 1 lemon, tarragon and chervil, parsley, fried potato baskets, cucumber garnishing, i gill veal gravy. Flatten and slightly trim the meat, brush it over with olive oil and season with salt and pepper, then grill the stetdcs over or in front of a good fire, allowing about eight minutes for each side ; the steaks must be decidedly underdone, juicy, and quite tender. Cream the maitre d’hotel butter, put it in a forcing-bag with a rose tube and force out 8-12 small rosettes on to a plate, put them on\the ice. Cut 8 large p o t a t oes into shapes of baskets, a 11 cl f r 3^ them in hot fat. Peel a large cucumber, cut out as many little ball shapes as possible, blanch them in salted water, drain, and toss in fresh butter, season, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Dish up the steaks, cut them iuto sections, sauce over carefully with a ribbon of tomato puree, enriched with egg-yolks and herbs : upon this place the maitre d’hotel butter. Surround the steaks with the potato baskets filled with cucumber balls, and serve with a boat of gravy flavoured with a little tomato puree. Porterhouse Steak a la GoufTe. Cut two steaks from the sirloin about one inch in thickness. Each steak should have the undercut left on, and must be cut from the chine-bone portion. Flatten and trim a little, lard one side of each with strips of larding bacon; season with pepper and salt, brush over well with oiled butter, broil over a brisk fire (rather under- done), dish up, garnishing a la Gouffe, and serve with demi-glace. Olives de Boeuf [Beef Olives). I:t to i4 lb. of fillet of beef or rump steak (cut thick), i egg, 2 oz. fresh breadcrumbs, i|- oz. beef suet, chopped finely, \ oz. chopped ham, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful aromatic spice, a pinch of pow- dered sweet herbs, 4 teaspoonful finely grated lemon-rind, salt and pepper, f pint brown sauce.446 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Free the meat from skin and fat, and cu^ it into thin slices about 4 inches long and i-J- inches wide, and batten them with a wetted cutlet-bat. Prepare the following stuffing : Put the bread- crumbs, suet, ham, parsley, herbs, lemon-rind, and spice into a basin, mix well, and moisten with a well-beaten egg. Season the slices of meat with a little salt and pepper, lay them out flat, and spread a layer of the prepared stuffing on them, roll up neatly, and tie each with a piece of string. Have the sauce heated in a stew- or saute-pan, lay in the prepared rolls, cover, and stew gently from forty to forty-five minutes. Remove the strings from the rolls, and dish them upon a bed of mashed potatoes. Pour over some of the sauce, and garnish the sides of the dish with spinach or groups of braised button onions. Serve hot. Queues de Bceuf braisees a la Polonaise {Braised Ox-tails with Cauliflower). Cut a good-sized ox-tail into sections, blanch the pieces in slightly-salted water, cool and drain them thoroughly on a cloth. Melt about two ounces of butter in a braising-pan, when hot put in the ox-tail, season with salt and pepper, fry them over a quick lire for some minutes, then add one large carrot cut into slices, a sliced onion, a few slices of lean bacon, twelve peppercorns, and a bay-leaf. Fry a little longer, so as to blend the vegetables. Pour oft the butter, moisten with a pint of Madeira sauce, and cook in a covered pan in the oven from one and a half to two hours, or till the meat is quite tender. Meanwhile cook a large cauliflower (previously trimmed and washed) in salted water. Dish the ox-tail pieces on a round dish, sauce over carefully, put the head portion of the cauliflower in the centre of the dish, and place the smaller parts around it. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and pour a little butter (beurre noisette) over the vegetable. The slices of bacon, carrot, and onion may, if liked, be included when dishing up, but the sauce must be strained before being used. Queues de Bceuf a I’Alsacienne. I large ox-tail, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. bacon or ham trimmings, celery-root> I small onion sliced, i small bouquet garni, i small glass brandy, stock, demi-glace sauce, small smoked and boiled sausages for garnish, seasoning.HOT MEAT ENTRIES, ETC. 447 Cut the ox-tail into joints about 2 inches long. Soak them'^in lukewarm water for an hour, take up, drain, and fry the ox-tail carefully in a braising-pan containing the butter, bacon, celery-root, onion, and herbs. When blended, add the brandy, season well, and cook in stock for if hours. Skim off the fat, take out the ox-tail, and pour off some of the liquor. Add the sauce, season well, reduce, and strain. Cook the ox-tail in the prepared sauce for another hour, or till cpxite tender. Dish up neatly, sauce over, garnish the dish with grated horse-radish and fried sausages cut into pieces. Serve hot. Langue de Boeuf aux Epinards {Braised Ox-tongue with Spinach). Procui'e a salted, pickled or smoked ox-tongue, remove the wincl- pipe and the fat at end. Soak pickled or salted tongues for two hours and a smoked tongue for ten to eleven hours. Cook the tongue in a large stewpan with enough water to well cover it, add one onion, stuck with two cloves and a few peppercorns. Cook gently for about two hours take up, remove the skin whilst hot, and place the tongue in another stewpan with + pint of tomato sauce and i- pint of Espagnole sauce, also a little gravy or stock. Cook this slowly for another hour in the oven. Meanwhile wash, pick, and cook the spinach with very little water and salt. Drain it, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt i oz. butter in a stewpan, fry in it I to 2 hnely chopped shallots, put in the spinach, and two table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Heat up, season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Cook for a few minutes. Cut the tongue into slices. Dish up on a bed of spinach. Sauce round it with some of the sauce, and serve the remainder separately. Note.—For other ways of cooking and dressing ox-tongue, see abbreviated recipes on page 453. Steak and Kidney Pie [A Luncheon or Supper Dish). Make a paste crnst (see “ Pastry”), cut about a pound of rump or buttock steak into thin slices, dip each slice into a mixture of flour, salt, and pepper, and roll a slice of kidney and a tiny piece of fat into each slice of beef. Place them in a pie-dish, pour in enough water or stock to come half-way up the dish, wet the edges of the dish, and line with a strip of paste, brush the edge of the crust with egg, milk or water, and place on a cover of paste. Make a small incision in the'centre of the paste, and decorate with a few fancifnlly- cut leaves of paste. Brush over with beaten egg-yolk, and bake for about one and a half hour. Veal and ham, pigeon, and rabbit pies are made in the same manner. Hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters or slices can be used with the filling ingredients if liked. A rough puff or flaky crust is eminently suitable for all kinds of meat pies. Steak and Oyster Pudding. I lb. flour (sifted), 8 oz. beef suet, i gill milk, 14 lb. buttock or rump steak, 18 sauce oysters, 4 gill stock, salt and pepper, 4 lemon. Free the suet from skin and chop it very finely, sprinkle a little flonr or breadcrumbs with the suet when chopping it, put the flourTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 448 and suet in a basin, add a good pinch of salt, and mix thoroughly. Add the milk, and a little water, if needed, and work into a paste. Cut the beef across the grain into thin slices. Mix about a table- spoonful of flour with a teaspoonful of fine salt and half a tea- spoonful of pepper in a plate, dip one side of the meat slices in this, roll in each a small piece of fat. Beard the oysters. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and line with it a pudding-basin of suitable size. Reserve a piece of the paste large enough for the top of the pudding. Fill the lined basin with layers of beef and oysters. Grate a little lemon-rind between the layers, moisten with well-seasoned stock and a little lemon-juice. Wet the edge of the paste crust, place on the cover, and press down the edges very firmly. Cover the top with a greased paper or tie the basin in a pudding-cloth which has been wrung out in hot water and floured ; in tying the cloth allow sufficient room for the crust to swell in cooking. Put the pudding in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook for two and a half hours or steam for about three hours. When done remove the cloth, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, and serve. Beefsteak en Casserole. Cut a large piece of rumpsteak into four or five round flat fillets, beat a little with a cutlet-bat, trim, and season them with salt and pepper. Fry both sides slightly in a little butter over a quick fire, and set them aside. Peel and chop finely a moderate-sized onion, fry it in a small stewpan with half an ounce of butter to a golden colour. Moisten with a glass of Marsala or Madeira wine and two large tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Boil up, and add a tablespoonful of piccalilli or mixed pickles, two ounces fried bacon cut into dice, cut up small eight to ten small champignons, one small carrot cooked and cut into cubes, one potato cooked and cut into dice. Heat up, and put it in a fireproof earthenware casserole, place the fillets on top. Sprinkle over a little dissolved meat glaze. Cover, and cook in the oven for five to ten minutes. Serve hot in the casserole. Curried Beef [Bceuf a I’lndienne). to 2 lb. lean beef, 2 oz. butter or lard, gill grated cocoanut, i gill milk, I onion, i dessertspoonful “ Laxami ” curry powder, ^ oz. flour, pint stock or water, salt to taste, boiled rice. Cut the meat into dice-shaped pieces; soak the cocoanut in the milk for half an hour. Peel and chop the onion finely. Fry the meat lightly in the butter in a stewpan ; take it up and fry the onion to a golden colour, stir in the flour and curry powder, and fry likewise ; moisten with the stock, boil up, skim, and put in the fried meat, also the cocoanut and milk. Season with salt and cook gently for about half an hour. Skim occasionally, dish up, and serve with boiled rice.449 Hot MEAT ENTRliES, ETC. Hachis de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise {Beef Hash, Bourgeoise Style). 1 lb. cold beef (roast sirloin, rib or top side), 4 oz. preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham, 2 finely chopped shallots, i oz. butter, i gill demi-glace sauce. 4 gill tomato puree, seasoning, 4 potatoes scooped out in marble shapes, parboiled, and fried in butter. Cut the meat into neat square slices about an inch in size, cut the mushrooms into thin slices, and the ham into dice. Fry the shallots in the butter without browning, then add the ham, fry a little, then the mushrooms, lastly add the meat, and stir the whole carefully over the fire for a few seconds. Moisten with the brown sauce and tomato puree, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, cook slowly for half an hour without letting it boil. Arrange the hash in the centre of a hot dish, surround it with the fried potatoes, and serve. Saute de Boeuf a la Zeppelin. Slice thinly i lb. of fillet of beef, and toss them in 2 oz. of butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire. Season with salt, pepper, and paprika ; then add 3 crushed rij)e tomatoes, J a small onion, \ eeled and chopped, i gill beef stock, I gill tomato sauce, and a sliced German gherkin (Salz Gurke). Put all in a casserole, cover, and cook in the oven for about forty minutes. Skim the top carefully before serving, and send to table in the casserole dish, and serve hot. Tripe braise a la Fermiere {Braised and Stuffed Tripe). Procure about iV lb. of tripe, wash and wipe it thoroughly, and blanch it in the usual way. Drain, and spread it out on a board, cut it into even-size oblong strips, 2-t by 4 inches. Prepare a light mixture as stuffing, consisting of 3 tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped beef suet, 2 chopped shallots, I dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, seasoning, and half a beaten egg. Moisten further, if necessary, with a little stock. Spread each slice of tripe with this stuffing, and upon this place a very thin slice of streaky bacon. Roll up each carefully, and tie with a piece of thin string. Place these rolls in a stewpan upon a bed of mirepoix, that is, pieces of bacon, sliced onion, carrot, and a small bouquet garni ; moisten with a pint of brown stock, and braise in the oven for about an hour. Then pour off the liquor, and blend it with half a pint of piquante sauce, strain it over the tripe, and again cook it for twenty or thirty minutes longer. Take up the tripe, remove the string, and dish up neatly on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and send to table. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF BEEF. Beefsteaks a I’Anglaise.—Small steaks cut off the sirloin or tenderloin of beef, pared, seasoned, dipped in oiled butter, and broiled. Dished up with parsley butter on each, garnished with small round chipped }X)tatoes. — a la Bardoux.—Thinly-cut round fillet steaks, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in a mixture of fresh breadcrumbs, finely chopped beef- marrow and parsley, salt and pepper. Fried briskly in butter, and served with maitre d’hotel sauce. FFTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 450 Beefsteaks a la Brisse.—Small round fillet steaks, slightly marinaded, then drained and broiled. Served with well-reduced and highly-spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small timbales of mashed turnips. — a la Godard,—Small round fillet steaks, seasoned and grilled. Served with a rich demi-glace sauce, garnished with small slices of sweet- Irreads, mnshroom-heads, quartered artichoke bottoms, and truffles. — a la Soyer.—Small, but rather plump, tender steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, finely chopped chives, parsley, and seasoning, fried in butter or lard, and served with a richly- prepared savoury herb sauce. — a la Suedoise.—Small steaks cut from rump, seasoned, and cooked in butter ; dressed with onion, finely cut and fried, and garnished with saute potatoes. — a la Turinoise.—Small grilled fillet steaks, garnished with small nouilles timbales ; tomato sauce. Beignets de Boeuf a la Minute.—Cold roast beef cut in strips, seasoned, dipped in frying batter and fried in deep fat. Boeuf saute a la Flamande.—Braised pieces of rump of beef, garnished with stuffed spring cabbages ; brown sauce (demi-glace). Boeuf a la Bourgeoise,—Coarsely minced broiled beef with braised button onions ; brown sauce (demi-glace).’ Carbonade a la Flamande.—Thin slices of lean beef stewed in casserole, in rich brown sauce, with minced onions, neatly-shaped plain boiled potatoes placed on top of stew ; served in casserole. Cervelle de Boeuf frite {Fried Ox-Brain).—Blanched ox-brain, cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, or dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified fat or butter. — au Gratin {Baked).—Blanched, cut in slices and placed in a buttered dish, sauced over with brown or white sauce, breaded, and baked in the oven. — en Matelote.—Blanched ox-brain, stewed in red wine sauce, garnished with braised button onions. Chateaubriand a la Bearnaise.—Double fillet, basted with sweet oil, and grilled or broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. — a la Chipolata.—Broiled double fillet steak dished up and garnished with braised and glazed chestnuts, fried pieces of sausage, and mushroom heads. Served with tomato sauce. — a la Cordon Rouge.—Double fillet steak basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely-chopped ham and fresh breadcrumbs, then broiled gently in clarified butter, garnished with groups of sliced truffles, prepared Brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Grecque.—Grilled double fillet ; garnished with fried egg-plants (aubergines) ; Madere sauce, mixed with chopped parsley. — a la Hdteliere.—Grilled double fillet, sauced over with supreme sauce and a few drops of dissolved meat glaze. — a la Lombardo.—Grilled or broiled double fillet ; garnished with stuffed, baked tomatoes ; Ms.dere sauce. — a la Marquise.—Double fillet broiled in butter, garnished with arti- choke bottoms, filled with small stuffed and braised lettuce.HOT MEAT ENTRI':ES, ETC. 45 > Chateaubriand a la Marseillaise.—Grilled double lillet steak, surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and very small cooked pieces of calf's feet, coated with batter and fried. Served wifh bordelaise sauce. — a la Rosny.—Double fillet broiled in Imtter, garnished with fried slices of cucumber, and served with poivrade sauce. — a la Veron.—Double fillet stuffed from the side with a mixture of chopped blanched beef-marrow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil and grilled ; served with echalote sauce. Croquettes de Boeuf a I’Anglaise (Beef Croquettes).—Finely minced cooked beef, cork, cutlet or ball shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified fat. - a ritalienne.—Fried beef croquettes with Italian sauce. Culottes de Boeuf, Maintenon.—Braised beef cut in slices and dressed in pyramids ; garnished with small timbales of nouilles ; seasoned with soubise and duchess potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. Entrecotes de Boeuf a la Bearnaise.—Grilled sirloin steaks served with bearnaise sauce. — au Beurre d’Anchois.—Grilled sirloin steaks, with anchovy butter. - a la Bordelaise.—Grilled or broiled sirloin steaks garnished with grilled pieces of beef-marrow and served with bordelaise sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled sirloin steaks, with maitre d’hotel butter. — a la Mobile.—Broiled sirloin steaks with blanched and grilled slices of beef-marrow. Sauce Madere. — a la Montagne.—Grilled sirloin steak, garnished with small stuffed tomatoes, and artichoke bottoms filled with tossed mushrooms. Demi-glace sauce. — a la Nicolas.—Sirloin steaks, broiled in butter, dressed in casserole, with whole truffles and slices of foie-gras. Sauce demi-glace. — a la Parisienne.—Grilled entrecotes (sirloin steaks) of beef, spread over with a mixture of finely-chopped shallot and chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze ; garnished with small round fried potatoes. Serve with rich gravy. — aux Pommes soufflees.—Grilled sirloin steaks, with parsley butter, garnished with puff or souffle potatoes. — a la Rockaway.—Grilled sirloin steaks, served with fried onion rings and grated horse-radish. Sauce demi-glace. Filets de Boeuf a I’Andalouse.—Larded and braised fillets of beef, garnished with glazed chestnuts, braised cabbage-lettuces, and small braised tomatoes, sauce demi-glace. — a la Bearnaise.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, with bearnaise sauce on fillets, and demi-glace round them. — au Beurre d'Anchois.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, with anchovy butter, demi-glace sauce. — a la Bordelaise.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef served with blanched and grilled slices of beef-marrow and bordelaise sauce. Note.—For other tc’flys of cooking, tlrcfisingy and garnishing Enirc4c0tes see de Bccuf. also Fillets and Tournedos452 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Boeuf aux Champignons.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef dressed with sliced mushrooms heated up in brown sauce. — a la Claremont.—Braised hllets of beef larded and glazed, served with a garniture of liraised, stuffed cucumber and tomatoes, also some small stuffed onions glazed. Sauce: Bearnaise on top of the fillets, with demi-glace round the dish. — a la Conflans.—Braised fillets of beef, finished in white wine sauce and savoury herbs. Served witli a garniture of finely shredded ox- tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, and a well-reduced demi-glace sauce. — a la Dauphine.—Small fillets of beef, larded and grilled, garnished with fried cocks’ combs, sliced truffles and dauphine potato cro- quettes ; p&igueux sauce. — a la Financiere.—Roast fillets of beef, larded and glazed, garnished with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat quenelles, and turned olives. Served with Madere sauce. — aux Fines Herbes.—Grilled or broiled fillets of beef, served with brown savoury herb sauce, or with parsley butter. — a la Garfield.—Small round fillet steaks, larded, grilled, dished up and garnished with finely cut julienne shapes of ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms. Served with poivrade sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled fillets of beef, with parsley butter and demi-glace sauce. — a la Malaga.—Larded and braised fillets of beef, served with Madere sauce, garnished with potato croquettes done up in the shape of grapes, with nouille paste stalks inserted, and fried. — a la Marinade.—Larded fillets of beef marinaded in vinegar, wine, and herbs ; when drained, grilled or braised, and served with poivrade sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Broiled fillets of beef garnished with fried eggs, tarragon leaves, and anchovy fillets on fillets of beef, group of truffles and champignons around dish ; Madere sauce. — a la Moscovite.—Larded fillets of beef, placed in white wine marinade, and braised or sauteed, served with Madere sauce and garnished with strips of fried almonds. — aux Olives farcies.—Grilled fillets of beef, with stuffed olives. — a la Palermitaine.—Larded and broiled fillets of beef, garnished with stuffed aubergines, potato croquettes, served with sauce Madere. — a la Polonaise.—Small round fillets made from finely chopped lean rump or tenderloin of beef and a small proportion of chopped suet, seasoned, shaped, egged, and crumbed. Fried in clarified fat, garnished with small round fried potatoes, and served with demi- glace sauce. — a la ProvenQale.—Grilled fillets of beef, garnished with stuffed mush- rooms and tomatoes, demi-glace or Madere sauce. — a la Royale.—Braised fillets of beef, larded, surrounded with a garni- ture of forcemeat quenelles, stoned olives, sliced truffles, and small braised and glazed lambs’ breads, served with tomato sauce.453 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Filets de Bceuf a la Sicilienne.—Grilled lillets of beef, served with Sicilian sauce, which is corn-posed of a well-reduced i\Iadeira wine sauce with finely shredded onion, previously fried in clarified butter. — a la Sigurd.—Larded fillets of beef, marinaded in sherry wine, and braised, garnished with small potato cassolettes filled with green asparagus puree, sauted artichoke bottoms cut in dice, chestnut croquettes and mushroom-heads ; sauce Madere. — a la Therapia.—Broiled fillets of beef, dressed on a bed of mushroom puree, sprinkled with finely-chopped herbs, garnished with olive- shaped fried potatoes and truffles, sauced over with nut-brown butter and Worcester sauce. — a la Toreador.—Grilled fillets of beef, cooked rather underdone, gar- nished with sauted fresh mushrooms and Spanish pimientos, tomato sauce. — aux Truffes.—Broiled or grilled fillets of beef, served with brown sauce flavoured with sherry and containing sliced truffles. — a la Wellington.—Small fillets of beef tossed in butter over a brisk fire, cooled and wrapped carefully in thinly rolled-out puff-paste, with a layer of finely chopped herbs spread over the fillets ; brush over the paste with egg-yolk and bake in moderate oven ten to fifteen minutes : dress on potato puree (socle), garnish with green peas, French beans, truffles, and potatoes cut in cubes and tossed in butter. Langue de Boeuf (Ox-Tongue) a la Flamande.—Braised ox-tongue, gar- nished with groups of cooked carrots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised spring cabbage, sauced over with the brown sauce with which the tongue was braised. — au Gratin.—Slices of boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking or gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of brown sauce, fresh breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley, and mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and sent to table on the dish in which it is baked. — au Parmesan.—Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesau cheese, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked and served in a gratin or baking dish. — a la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongne served with sauce Romaine, composed of Espagnole sauce, white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignoli), chilli vinegar, and a little powdered sugar, all well reduced, and passed through a tammy. Noix de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or rump (centre cut) of beef larded, finished in a richly-flavoured brown sauce, to which a little tomato puree has been added. Garnish with braised carrots and button onions, and serve with the above-named sauce well reduced. Palais de Boeuf grille.—Pickled ox-palates, boiled, pressed, and cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled. Serve with a piquante tomato sauce. — a I'Orly.—Stewed ox-palate, spread over, when cold, on one side with forcemeat mixed with a little savoury herbs, then rolled, and dipped in cold white sauce. When set, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce.454 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Paupiettes de Bceuf a la Richelieu.—Thin slices of fillets of beef stuffed, rolled, and braised, garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms. Serve with Richelieu sauce. Tournedos* a 1’Alexandra.—Larded tournedos braised and glazed ; dressed on croutons with a slice of truffle on each ; garnished with quarters of artichokes ; sauce Perigueux. — a I’Arlesienne.—Tournedos broiled in butter, dressed on croutons sauced over with demi-glace containing finely cut julienne strips of celery. — a I’Armand.—Grilled tournedos dressed on fried bread croutons covered with foie-gras puree ; garnished with souffle potatoes and slices of truffles ; sauce Bordelaise. — braises au Celeri.—Larded fillets of beef braised with celery, and finished in rich brown sauce ; dressed on fried bread croutons in a circle, with celery in centre ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Slightly marinaded tournedos, fried in butter, and served with chasseur sauce. — a la Choron.—Grilled tournedos (small), dressed on glazed croutes of fried bread, garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas tossed in butter, and cube shapes of new potatoes baked in oven ; centre filled with bearnaise sauce flavoured with tomato. — a la Colbert.—Small round fillet steaks seasoned and fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter. Dish up en couronne, fill the centre of the dish with small rounds of fried potatoes, garnish with bread croutons, and ser've with shallot sauce reduced with sherry. — a la Drexel.—Grilled tournedos dressed on fried bread croutons coated with bearnaise sauce, border of each fillet garnished with tomato puree, and a slice of truffle in centre of each ; surround the tournedos with straw potatoes (pommes pailles). — a I’Elysee.—Grill the tournedos, and place a slice of braised sweet- bread and mushroom-head on each ; dish up with a border of bearnaise sauce. — a la Favorite.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons, with slice of foie-gras ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points; sauce Madere. — a la Gabrielle.—Saute the fillets in butter, dress them on rounds of puff-pastry of similar size, cover with light chicken puree, and braise. Garnish with sliced truffles, green peas and straw potatoes ; sauce Bearnaise and demi-glace. — a la Grand Hotel.—Grilled tournedos, dressed on croutons of rice of same size, garnished with slices of foie-gras and asparagus points ; sauce Madere. — a la Helder.—Broil the fillets in butter, dress on croutons of bread, with bearnaise sauce as border of each tournedos, and tomato puree in centre ; surrounded with noisette potatoes. — a rimperatrice.—Tournedos broiled in butter, dressed on tried bread croutons, with half a grilled tomato and small piece of grilled marrow on each ; garnished with asparagus points and noisette potatoes ; sauce Perigueux. * Tournedos are rather small oval-shaped fillets, cut from the fillet part of beef.455 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Tournedos MacMahon.—Grilled tournedos garnished with slices of truffles, flageolets, and chateau potatoes ; sauce Madere. — Menagere.—Tournedos grilled or broiled, dressed on a border of duchesse potato (puree), centre filled with braised carrots and turnips (olive shape), button onions, and noisette potatoes sauce demi-glace. — a la Mercedes.—Grilled tournedos, coated with artichoke puree and mushroom-heads ; sauce over with demi-glace or Madere. — Meridionale.—Grilled tournedos, garnished with sorrel puree, stuffed tomatoes, green peas, and cepes ; plain gravy. — a la Mikado.—Grilled tournedos, garnished with half a stuffed and baked tomato on each ; sauce Madere. --- a la Mireille.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of baked or fried brioche paste (p. 137), garnished with asparagus points ; sauce tomate. — a la Monaco.—Grilled or broiled tournedos dressed on bread croutons spread with foie-gras farce; garnished with mushroom-heads and slices of tongue ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Grilled tournedos placed on rice croutons; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with as aragus points; plain gravy. — a la Monte Carlo.—Broiled tournedos, garnished with slice of foie- gras and truffle on top of each. Dish up, and surround with fried slices of sweetbread and fried calf’s brain ; sauce Madere. — a la Nelson.—Par-fried tournedos, finished in an earthenware casserole, with braised button onions, demi-glace or IMadere sauce, and dice of fried potatoes. — a la Nesselrode.—Broiled tournedos, garnished with chestnut puree, potato chips, sauced round with demi-glace. — a la NiQoise.—Small fillet steaks grilled, served with a demi-glace sauce, blended with tomato puree. Garnish the dish with stuffed olives. — a I’Orsay.—Grilled or broiled tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with stoned olives, mushrooms, and chateau potatoes ; sauce Madere. — a r Othello.—Place a poached or fried egg on each tournedo, and serve with pGigueux sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Broiled tournedos, with a garnish of asparagus ]ioints, Parisian potatoes, and bearnaise sauce. — a la Piemontaise.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of bread, garnished with small timbales of rice mixed with chopped truffles, with a mushroom head on each ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Pompadour.—Tournedos broiled or grilled, sauced over with tomato puree, with a slice of fried ham and a slice of truffle on top of each ; clear gravy. — a la Prince Murat.—Small fillets of beef and slices of raw foie- gras, of similar size, broiled separately, dressed together on bread croutons ; garnished with turned Spanish olives, stuffed with farce de champignons and olive-shaped potatoes baked in butter ; sauced over with tomato and Madere blended together.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 456 Tournedos a la Rachel.—Grilled tournedos dressed on artichoke bottoms, sauced over with beef-marrow sauce (moelle). — a la Riche.—Grilled tournedos with artichoke bottoms filled with green peas placed on each, and a slice of trufife on top ; sauce choron. — Savoisienne.—Braised tournedos done in casserole, with demi-glace sauce, small button onions, champignons, green peas, and chateau potatoes. — a la Scribe.—Grilled tournedos dressed on croutons of rice spread over with foie-gras puree ; sauce Madere. —Strasbourgeoise.—Broil or grill the tournedos, place a slice of braised foie-gras and a slice of smoked sausage on each, and serve with Madere sauce. a la Thiers.—Parboiled tournedos finished in casserole, with braised button onions, slices of truffles, stoned olives, and brown sauce flavoured with Sauterne wine. — a la Troya.—Grilled tournedos with an anchovy fillet and a slice of truffle on top of each ; when cold enclosed in brioche paste (p. 137), and baked in a quick oven ; served with sauce Madere containing finely cut strips of truffle. — a la Valliere.—Tournedos sauted in butter and dressed on croutons of fried bread, coated with demi-glace sauce containing julienne strips of truffle, mushrooms, and tongue. Note.—Rump steaks, porterhouse steaks, tenderloin steaks, sirloin steaks, entrecotes, fillet steaks, beef olives, and tournedos may also be prepared and served in a greater variety by substituting any appropriate garnish or sauce with their respective names as herein indicated. PORC—PORK. Filets de Pore a la Perigueux [Fillets of Pork with Truffle Sauce). Bone a small neck of pork, trim off all the fat, and lard one side with strips of fat bacon. Place it in a deep saute-pan, on a bed of sliced carrot, onion, and bouquet garni, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of brown stock. Let it come to the boil, and finish cooking in a moderate oven, basting frequently. When done, take up, skim the liquor and strain into a small stewpan, add about three-quarters of a pint of perigueux sauce, boil up, and let simmer for a few minutes. Dish up the fillets, left whole, or cut into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, pour over some sauce, and serve the remainder separately. A border of mashed potatoes brushed over with egg, and baked in the oven, will serve well as a base for the fillets, and greatly improves the appearance of the dish. Cotelettes de Pore a la Robert [Pork Cutlets with Robert Sauce). Cut eight to nine small pork cutlets from the best end of the neck of pork. Trim and pare neatly, leaving about half an inch of fat round each cutlet. Put the cutlets in a deep dish, season with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, pour over two tablespoonfuls457 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. sweet oil, allow them to remain in this for half an hour, turning frequently. Drain, and broil over a clear fire. They should be well done, and will take from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Dish up, and serve with sauce Robert. Cotelettes de Pore a la Soubise {Poyk Cutlets imth Onion Sauce). Prepare the cutlets in the same manner as the foregoing, broil them with a little fresh butter in a saute-pan or on the gridiron. Dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, put a well-reduced soubise puree in the centre, and serve sauce demi-glace round the base of the dish. A few drops of liquid meat glaze or meat extract (Lemco) put over the soubise just before serving, will be found an improvement. Pieds de Pore a la Duxelle {Pig's Feet with Duxellc Puree). Procure two pairs of pickled pig’s feet, braise them in richly- flavoured stock until tender. When done take up, remove the bones, and cut each foot in two, lengthwise. Have ready some duxelle puree, spread over the inside of each piece with a thick layer of this. When set, cut each in two, egg and ctumb twice, and fry in clarified butter a golden colour. Drain on a paper or cloth. Dish up en couronne, fill up the centre with duxelle puree and a few heads of mushrooms tossed in butter ; garnish with fried parsley, and serve with poivrade sauce. Zampins farcis {Stuffed Pig’s Foot). This dish is made from the foot of a young porker, including a part of the leg. It must be salted in brine for some days before it is used. Remove a portion of the bone, and stuff with farce de champignons {see Recipe below). Prick the rind with a larding- needle, to prevent breaking whilst cooking, wrap in a cloth, tie both ends, and cook till tender in stock or water. Unwrap, dish up, sauce over with well-reduced chamj)agne sauce {see Sauces), garnish with groups of French beans, and serve hot. Mushroom Forcemeat or Stuffing {Farce de Champignons). 2 to 3 large fresh mushrooms, or about 3 oz. preserved mushrooms, small onion, i small French roll, milk, oz. butter, 4 oz. grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere), i heaped-up teaspoonful powdered herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, and bay-leaf), 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Wash the mushrooms, drain, and chop them very finely, peel and chop the onion, fry the latter a golden colour in the butter and pour over the chopped mushrooms, mix in the cheese and herbs. Soak the bread, previoifsly freed from crust, in a little milk, add this to the above and work into a smooth paste, adding the yolks of eggs to moisten it. Season with salt, pepper, a tiny pinch of nutmeg and ground mace, and use as directed. If liked, a little chopped ham may be added to the mixture—it will improve the flavour of the forcemeat considerably. Petites Chartreuses au Jambon {Small Ham Chartreuse). Line the sides of eight small plain timbale moulds, previously buttered, with thinly cut heart-shaped slices of cooked lean ham,458 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. range the slices so that they overlap each other a little. Place a small round slice of ham in the centre of each bottom, and around it arrange half-moon shapes of sliced truffle. Have ready a light chicken cream (farce), and mask with it thickly the lined portion of the timbales. Heat np in butter i pint of cooked English PETITES CHARTREUSES AU JAMBON. marrowfat peas, duly seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar, then rub through a fine sieve, enrich with a little cream, and mix with a handful of dice-cut pieces of raw ham. With this three-parts fill the timbales, then cover each with a layer of chicken farce. Steam in the oven for about \ an hour. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with a piquante tomato sauce. Souffle au Jambon {Ham Souffle). 8 oz. lean cooked ham, a small liqueur glass cognac, gill Madeira sauce, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i-|- gill milk, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, tea- spoonful aromatic seasoning, a little salt. Cut about two ounces of ham into small dice of even size, put them into a cup and add the cognac, cover and keep till required. Cut the remainder of ham into small slices, pound in a mortar, adding at the same time about a quarter of the milk. When smooth, rub through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, cook for a few seconds over the fire, add remainder of the milk gradually, stir with a wooden spoon till it boils, and cook for another ten minutes. Allow to cool a little, then put it in a mortar, add the ham puree, mix thoroughly, and incorporate one by one the yolks of eggs. Season to taste with aromatics and salt, and pass the whole through a sieve. Then add the ham and the cognac. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and work care- fully into the preparation. If the latter be found too stiff, add about a tablespoonful of Madeira or bechamel sauce. Three-parts fill a well-buttered plain charlotte or timbale mould, place it in a shallow pan containing boiling water, and let come to the boil. Cover the mould with greased paper, and steam in the oven from459 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. forty to forty-five minutes. To serve, unmonid ejuirkly on to a hot dish, and pour some hot Madeira sauce round the base of the dish. Jambon a I’Anglaise. Parboiled ham, wrapped in a crust of paste made of flour and water, set to roast in a braisiei'e (braisiug-pan) with white wine, butter, and seasoning. The crust and skin are then removed, and the ham cut into thin slices, dished up, and served with a well- reduced brown sauce, flavoured with Madeira wine. Jambon a la Bayonnaise. Braised ham, with finely-chopped fried onions, dressed on stewed rice, garnished with pieces of fried sausages. Serve with demi-glace sauce. Petit Sale Piemontaise {Sparc-ribs). Soak a piece of the spare ribs of salt or pickled pork in water, and wash it. Boil it very gently in stock till tender. Cook some rice in rich brown stock till the latter is almost absorbed in the rice, flavour it with parmesan cheese and tomato puree, and dress upon a dish in the form of a bed. Cut the spare rib into neat slices, and arrange neatly upon the rice. Serve with Colbert sauce. Pieds de Cochon a la Perigord [Grilled Stuifed Pig’s Fed). Cook some salted or pickled pig’s feet in stock, richly flavoured with vegetables, till quite tender. Cool and bone them. Cut each foot in two lengthways, stuff each half with a mi.xture of sausage- meat and chopped truffles and liver forcemeat (p. 178). M’rap separately in pieces of pig’s caul, brush over with oiled butter, and roll in brown breadcrumbs. Grill over a moderate fire for about fifteen minutes, dish up, and serve with perigord sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER DISHES OF PORK. Carbonade de Pore a la Franijaise (Breast or belly part of Pork).—Slices of fresh pork, par-fried with vegetable garnish, stewed in brown sauce. Carre de Pore a I'lndienne.—Neck of pork cut into fillets, braised and cooked in curry sauce ; served with boiled rice. — a la Nivernaise.—Braised neck of pork with glazed button onions and cubes of turnips. — braise, Sauce Piquante.—Braised neck of pork with piquante sauce. Cervelles de Pore a la Demi-Glace.—Blanched pork brains stewed in demi-glace sauce. ^ — a ritalienne.—Blanched pork brains, stewed in Italian sauce, garnished with cooked savoury macaroni. Cotelettes de Pore aux Fines Herbes.—Broiled pork cutlets served with a white wine sauce containing chopped parsley and a small quantity of mixed savoury herbs. — a ITndienne.—Par-fried pork cutlets stewed in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 460 Cotelettes de Pore aux Haricots Blancs.—Grilled or fried pork cutlets served with puree of w^hite haricot beans, flavoured with brown onion sauce. — aux lentilles.—Braised pork cutlets with a puree of lentils ; brown sauce. — marinees.—Pickled pork cutlets, fried in oil, stewed in marinade sauce blended with tomato sauce. — a la Navarraise.—Pickled pork cutlets, drained well and fried in butter, finished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, dressed round a bed of stewed rice. — aux Pommes.—Fried pork cutlets or pork chops with apple sauce. Cotes de Pore a la Diplomate.—Braised spare-ribs of pork, garnished with small groups of stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. Jambon a I’Alsaeienne.—Braised ham, with sourcrout (sauerkraut) cooked in casserole, dished up with mashed potatoes, and garnished with Strasbourg sausages, braise or demi-glace sauce. — braise au Champagne.—Braised ham, served hot (sliced) with cham- ])agne sauce. — braise a la Choucroute.—Braised ham, served hot (sliced) with stewed sourcrout (sauerkraut). — braise a la Clamart.—Braised ham, glazed with reduced demi-glace, garnished with puree of green peas. — braise a la FranQaise.—Parboiled ham Irraised in Espagnole sauce, flavoured with sherry or Madeira wine. — braise a la Lyonnaise.—Braised ham, with slices of fried onions, dressed on stewed rice, garnished with pieces of fried sausages ; demi-glace sauce. — bouilli, Sauce Madere.—Boiled ham, served hot (sliced) with Madeira wine sauce. — braise aux Nouilles.—Braised ham, served hot (sliced), garnished with cooked nouilles, braise or demi-glace sauce. — grille aux Petits Pois.—Slices of grilled ham with green peas. — a la Polonaise.—Braised ham served hot (sliced), garnished with small timbales of peas, choucroute, and small smoked pork sausages. — a la Russe.—Braised ham (sliced), with small stuffed lettuces or spring cabbages, braised with the ham ; dressed on stewed rice ; sauce demi-glace. Jarrets de Pore marine a I'Allemande.—Boiled pickled knuckles of pork with stewed sourcrout, forcemeat dumplings (godiveau quenelles), “and white sauce. Langues de Pore a I’ltalienne.—Braised pork tongues, with brown sauce mixed with chopped preserved mushrooms. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled and braised pork tongues with fried sliced onions and brown sauce. Oreilles de Pore aux Champignons.—Boiled pig’s palate stewed in brown sauce with sliced mushrooms.461 HOT MEAT ENTREES, ETC. Oreilles de Pore frites, Sauce Tartare.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears, soaked in oil and chopped savoury herbs, dijiped in frying liatter, and fried in clarihed butter, served with tartare sauce. ““ en Menus Droits.—Pickled pig’s ears, braised and served with finely sliced fried onions. — en Vinaigrette.—Boiled pickled pigs’ ears, dressed with vinaigrette sauce, garnished with harebboiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and stoned olives. Palais de Pore gratine.—Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dished in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce, a few sliced mushrooms, fresh bread- crumbs, small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Pieds de Pore au Champagne.—Pickled pig’s feet stewed in champagne sauce. - en Fricassee.—Fricasseed pig’s feet boiled and stewed in white sauce and sliced mushrooms. — Sauce Piquante.—Pickled pig’s feet boiled and stewed in piquant sauce. Pieds de Cochon a la Sainte-Menehould.—Pickled pig’s feet, boned, boiled, and stuffed, dipped in seasoned frying batter, fried in clarihed butter, served with piquante or Robert sauce. Saucisses* de Pore a la Lyonnaise. ^Fried pork sausages with braised sliced onions. — - a la Puree de Pommes de Terre.—Fried pork sausages with mashed potatoes; served with, gravy. — aux Truffes.—Fresh German pork sausages (bratwiirste) fried or grilled ; served with truffle sauce. Souffles de Jambon a la Gastronome.—Souffles of ham mixed with cepes, morelles or large sliced mushrooms, and steamed. Cover with chopped truffles, with a whole truffle on top. Sauce Madere. — a la Milanaise.—Ham souffle, centre Filed with salpicon of cooked macaroni, cubes of ham, tongue, truffles, and champignons. Garnished with cheese-flavoured macaroni cut short. Sauce tomate. Tete de Pore a la Mobile.—Braised salted pig’s head (previously boned), hnished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, slightly fried, dished up on stewed rice, and served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Poulette.—Boiled pickled pig’s head stewed in and served with parsley or poulette sauce. — trite, Sauce Remoulade.—Boiled pickled pig’s head, boned, pressed, and cut into square pieces. Season, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with remoulade sauce and fried parsley. CURRIED MEAT DISHES. Curried Pork. Cut about iF lb. of lean pork into dice-shaped pieces, and steep them for a few hours in a gill of wine vinegar mixed with a clove of crushed garlic. Put a dessertspoonful of curry powder and half an ounce of flour in a stewpan containing an ounce of hot butter, and * “ Saucisses ” denote fresh sausages, whilst “ Saucissons” stand for smoked sausages.462 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fry*to a light'brown^^roux, put in the meat, ju'eviously drained and fried lightly in butter. Add half the vinegar, also a bay-leaf, half-pint stock, one tablespoonful of chutney, and one gill tomato puree. Season with salt, and let it simmer for about half an hour, or until the meat is quite tender. Dish up in a casserole dish, and serve with boiled rice and quarters of lemon. Indian Dry Curry. lb. lean beef, mutton, or pork, 3 oz. butter, i onion, i tablespoonful "Empress” curry powder, 2 chopped gherkins, 1 tablespoonful mango chutney, ^ lemon, pint thin brown or demi-glace sauce. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion (peeled and sliced), and fry for a few minutes. Then add the meat, cut in small pieces, and fry all together for about five minutes. Now sprinkle over the curry powder, season with salt, and stir the contents of the pan over the fire for another five minutes. Next add the gherkin and chutney, also the sauce, and allow to cook gently for about an hour ; by that time the meat should be quite tender. Add the juice of the lemon, and dish up. Serve with boiled rice and quarters of lemon. Curried Mutton or Lamb. ij to 2 lb. lean mutton or Iamb, i small onion, 2 oz. pork fat or lard, I des'.ertspoonful "Laxami” curry powder, 1 oz. flour, 2 ripe tomatoes, i|- pints stock or water, boiled rice, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small cubes or dice shapes. Peel and chop the onion, melt the fat and fry in it the meat (lightly), add the onion and fry a little, then sprinkle over the curry powder. Stir all over the fire for a few seconds, then add the flour and let it take colour, a pale brown or fawn. Next moisten with the stock, stir till it boils, season"] to taste with salt and pepper, add the tomatoes cut into slices,'_and cook the whole gently until the meat is tender. Take up the meat and strain the sauce. Re-heat again, skim, and dish up in a fireproof dish. Serve with boiled rice and quarters of lemon. Curried Tripe. Mince finely a small onion and fry in a stew-pan with i oz. of bntter, to a light-brown colour, add a dessertspoonful of curry powder and a tablespoonful of flour, and fry a little, then add a pint of white stock. Stir over the fire until it boils. Cut ly lb. of cooked tripe into small slices and cook slowly in the sauce for half-hour. Skim, season to taste, and serve on a hot dish with boiled rice. Note.—For directions to boil rice for curry, see Auxiliary Recipes at end of book.463 CHAPTER XXIII. ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). (For Cold Entrees see Chapter XXV.) CANARD AND CANETON—DUCK AND DUCKLING. Filets de Canard a la Castillane {Fillets of Duck). 1 large duck, ^ lb. raw rabbit or chicken meat, 2 oz. panade, i} oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of demi-glace or Espagnole sauce, glass sherrj^ pint well-reduced tomato sauce, 2 oz. rice, 18 large Spanish olives (stoned), 2 truffles, pepper and salt. Remove the fillets from the duck, flatten each a little, cut out some rounds, pare neatly, and put in a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with a very small quantity of sherry, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, just in time for serving. Pound the trimmings of the duck with the rabbit or chicken meat in a mortar until fine, add the panade, mix thoroughly, pound till smooth, adding butter, brown sauce, and a little of the tomato sauce if needed to moisten the farce. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Pass through a wire sieve and fill up a small border mould (previously buttered), steam or poach for twenty minutes. Stuff the stoned olives with the remainder of the farce, poach them in a little stock and keep hot in the tomato sauce. Blanch the rice, cook in a little stock and tomato sauce, keeping it well moistened until quite cooked, then reduce until fit for moulding, season, and fill up a cylindrical-shaped buttered mould. Turn the border of forcemeat on to a dish, put the rice shape in the centre, dress the fillets of duck alternately with slices of truffles round the top of the border, arrange the stuffed olives tastefully round the rice shape, sauce over and around well with hot tomato sauce, and serve quickly. A salpicon of cooked duck, truffles, and mushrooms, all cut into small dice, and finished with a little tomato sauce, can, if liked, be introduced in the centre of the forcemeat. Filets de Caneton farcis a la Legumiere. Remove the backbone from a large-sized duckling, lay it out flat, and take out the other bones ; have ready some veal force- meat (p. 177), spread the stuffing over every hollow place of the interior, lay a few strips of raw ham in between the forcemeat, tie or sew up the duckling with string. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a deep saute-pan, together with a small bouquet garni and a few slices of onion, lay the duckling in the pan, seasonTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 464 with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, put it in a moderate oven for about an hour or more until tender, basting it from time to time, then take it up, and keep warm. Take out the bacon and onion from the saute-pan, add half a pint of Madeira sauce and a tablespoonful of tomato sauce, let all simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the duckling into neat slices, dish up in an oblong entree dish, garnish the sides with alternate groups of cooked green peas, young carrots and turnips (scooped out in olive shapes), and a few croutons of bread, sauce over care- fully, and serve. Note.—This dish can also be served as a remove (Releve). Salmi de Canard [Salmi of Duck). I large tender duck, 4 oz. bacon, 12 stoned French olives, i oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, f pint stock, i small bunch herbs (bouquet garni), \ small onion, and salt and pepper. Singe, draw, and truss the duck, peel and slice the onion, cut the bacon into dice. Cook the latter in a baking-tin, when crisp take out half the quantitj^ and put it on a plate, put the onion in the baking-tin with the remaincler of bacon and fat, set the duck on this, add the bunch of herbs and put a little butter on top of the duck, season with pepper and salt, and cook in moderate oven for about twenty minutes until half cooked. Take up, untruss, and cut it into neat joints. Fry the flour in the remainder of butter (one and a half ounce) to a nice brown colour, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, and add to this the gravy from the tin in which the duck was cooked, pouring off every particle of fat beforehand. Stir the sauce until it boils a second time (a small glass of claret may be added at this stage, if liked). Put the pieces of duck, the olives, and the dice of-bacon into a clean stewpan, strain the sauce over this and add the bouquet of herbs. Simmer very gently for another twenty-five or thirty minutes, season to taste, skim off the fat, and remove the herbs. Dress the duck in the centre of a hot dish, surround with the olives and bacon. See that the sauce is of right consistency, adding a little gravy if found too thick, or reduc- ing it if it is too liquid, then pour over the duck, garnish with fleurons or croutons, and serve. Canard aux Olives [Braised Duck with Olives). I tender duck, 6 oz. streaky bacon, I oz. butter, | gill white wine, t pint brown sauce, i gill gravy, about 2 oz. French olives, i bouquet of herbs, pepper and salt, a few half-moon shapes of bread croutons, meat glaze. Line the bottom of a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, put in the duck, previously trussed, season with pepper and salt, spread the butter on top, add the bouquet of herbs, and bake in a hot oven, to acquire a colour (the duck must only be partly cooked), take up, cut into neat joints, and put these in a clean stewpan. Chop the carcase into small pieces, place in the pan in which the duck was baked, fry over the fire a few minutes, pour off the fat, add the sauce and gravy, cook for ten minutes, strain over the pieces of duck, and allow the whole to simmer gently forENTRP.es of poultry, etc. (HOT DISHES). 465 about twenty minutes. Stone the olives, put them m a saucepan with the wine, boil up, and add to the above. Simmer a little longer, skim well, dish up, and garnish with a few bread croutons, brushed over with meat-glaze. Canard a la Portugaise {Poriuguese Salmi of Duck). I large fat duck, 4 small tomatoes, i pint brown stock, i bouquet garni, 1 oz. butter, -J- pint Espagnole sauce, pint tomato sauce, 3 thin slices of ox-tongue, i truffle, 6 to 8 mushroom-heads, pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, mashed potatoes for dressing, i glass sherry. Singe, draw, and wipe the duck, joint it neatly, and put the carcase in a saute-pan, sprinkle with salt, place the pieces of wing, legs, and breast on top, spread on each a small piece of butter, and put in a hot oven for ten minutes. Take out the pieces of duck, put the carcase in a stewpan with the stock, bouquet of herbs, stew for half an hour, add the sauces, remove the fat, add the sherry, and reduce a little. Slice the tomatoes rather coarsely, fry them a little in butter. Cut the tongue in julienne strips, slice the truffles. Rub the sauce through a tammy cloth. Put the pieces of duck in a stewpan with the sauce, truffles, and mushrooms, and let stew gently for about half an hour. Toss the tongue in a little butter over a quick hre, just long enough to warm through. Season the salmi with a pinch of pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Dish up on a round or oval dish on to a pyramid of mashed potatoes, place the garnish of tomatoes, tongue, and mushrooms in small groups round the dish, sauce over well with the salmi sauce, and serve very hot. Salmi de Canard a la Montreuil. 2 small ducks (trussed), i oz. butter, i pint stock, i mirepoix of vegetables, I glass sherry, i gill Espagnole, pint tomato sauce, 2 oz. smoked cooked o.x-tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 large truffles, carrot, pepper, salt, nutmeg, fleurons or croutons of bread. Partly roast the ducks, let cool, and divide into neat joints. Braise with the mirepoix and butter for ten minutes, then drain off the butter and add the stock, wine, Espagnole and tomato sauce, cover, and let simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour or longer. Remove the pieces of duck to another stewpan, skim the sauce, and strain over the duck. Cut the ox-tongue, mush- rooms, and truffles into julienne shape, put with the duck, and .simmer for another ten minutes. Dress the duck on a fried bread croute, garnish with the julienne strips, and sauce over gently. Decorate with a few fleurons of puff-paste, previously dipped in a little liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. Canard braise a la Paysanne [Braised Duck with Vegetables). Pick, singe, and draw a good-sized duck, and truss it as for roasting. Put it in a stew- or braising-pan upon a bed of sliced onion, sliced fat bacon, and sliced carrot, and a small bouquet garni. Season with salt and pepper, fry or bake (not too slowly) until the duck acquires a hne colour. Pour off the fat and add -J- a pint of rich stock (brown) and a gill of brown sauce. Place the GGTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 466 cover on the pan, and continue to cook in a fairly hot oven till the duck is cpiite clone. Baste occasionally. Peel 2 turnips and 2 carrots, cut out into olive shapes. Toss them in a stewpan with butter. Add salt and a pinch of castor sugar. Finish cooking them along with the duck. Joint the bird into sections, then place on a dish and keep hot. Take out the vegetables and place them round the duck. Skim and reduce the sauce, and strain over the duck. Garnish the dish further with groups of green peas and dice- shaped pieces of bacon previously fried. Canard en Chemise [Rolled Braised Duck). Bone a duck, split it open, and spread with a nicely-seasoned liver farce (p. 178), roll up like a galantine, and tie up in a cloth. Cook in rich stock for forty or fifty minutes, according to size. The duck must be very underdone. Remove the cloth, and braise in the oven for another ten minutes. Cut the duck into slices, dish up, and serve with orange sauce or Rouennaise sauce. Canard grille a la Frangaise [Grilled Duck). Divide a duck down the middle, flatten out and skewer it, spread over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney saiice, and seasoning, and broil gently in butter. Serve with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped pickled lemons, and preserved mushrooms. Caneton a la Bohemienne ( Duckling, Bohemian Style). I good-sized duckling, 2 oz. bacon, i oz. butter, i carrot, i onion, i bay- leaf, 4 pint Espagnoie or demi-glace sauce, i glass port wine, seasoning. 6 oz. raw potatoes, 2 oz. beef suet, i dessertspoonful flour, i egg, chopped parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg to season, glace cherries, semolina croutons. Bone the duckling, spread it on the board cut side upwards, season well, roll up and tie with string. Saute it in butter, add the bacon and vegetables, and finish it in the oven. Take up the duckling, pour off the fat from the pan, put in the brown sauce and the wine, boil for ten minutes, skim, and strain, place the duckling in the sauce, and keep hot. Peel and grate the potatoes, chop the suet finely, and mix both together with the flour, eggs, and parsley. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Fill up a number of very small buttered bouchee moulds, poach them for twelve minutes, unmould, and place them in as many prepared croutons of semolina. Cut the duckling into neat portions, and arrange them on an oblong dish. Sauce over carefully, place the prepared croutons round the dish, put half a glace cherry on top of each, and serve the dish hot. Semolina Croutons. Doil up id gill of white stock and milk with a pat of butter and half a bay-leaf. Stir in 2 oz. semolina or florador. Cook, whilst stirring, for ten minutes. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, remove the bay-leaf, and add the yolks of two eggs. Spread this467 ENTRl^ES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). on a buttered plate, and let cool. Divide the mixture into six portions, shape into Hat rounds slightly hollowed in the centre, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Supreme de Canard a la Marquise [Supreme of Duck). I large duck, 2-ji oz. lean beef, 2-3 oz. poultry livers, i oz. panade, 2 yolks of eggs, slices of fat bacon, onions sliced, cream, i pint brown sauce, a glass of port wine, truffles, mushroom heads, asparagus points. Butter a saute-pan and line it with strips of fat bacon and slices of onion, and fry for a few minutes without browning. Remove the fillets and wing portions of a large duck, skin them, and place in the saute-pan. Pound the remainder of meat of the duck with the beef and poultry liver, and make into a farce with the panade, or a milk-soaked roll of bread, the usual seasoning, cream, and egg-yolks. Put the farce into a buttered border, mould and steam for aboift forty minutes. With the carcase of duck prepare a fumet, add half a pint of brown sauce, cook, strain into a saute-pan, add the duck fillets and the port-wine, cover, and cook slowly for about forty minutes. Take up the fillets, trim them a little, and reduce the sauce, adding a little cream and the needful seasoning. Dress the fillets, cut into slices, in the centre of the prepared border on a hot dish, sauce over carefully and garnish with neat groups of truffies cut into slices, mushroom heads, and asparagus points, all previously heated in butter and seasoned. Caneton braise a la Bourgogne [Braised Duckling). I good-sized duckling, 6 small button onions, i carrot sliced, 3 or 4 slices of bacon, i'small bunch herbs, i glass Burgundy, i gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, mashed potatoes, i egg-yolk, i teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, 2 slices of lemon. Prepare the duckling, and stuff it with a puree of potatoes previously mixed with egg-yolk and powdered herbs, and highly seasoned with pepper. Line a braising-pan with the bacon, sliced carrot, and onions, previously peeled and browned in a little butter. Add two thin slices of lemon, and place the duckling on top. Moisten with half the wine. Brown the duckling in the oven, and add the remainder of wine and a little stock, then braise468 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. over the fire or in the oven till quite done, basting frequently. The brown sauce should be added about ten minutes before the duckling is done. Dress on a hot dish with the small onions round. Boil up the sauce in the pan, strain, and remove the fat, reduce to the right consistency, season to taste with pepper and salt, and pour it round the base of the dish or send to table separately in a sauce-boat. Caneton a la Cambaceres {Braized Duckling). I duckling, trussed for braising, a mirepoix, consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, and herbs, i tablespoonful sour cream, i oz. butter, i large cooked beetroot, i gill tomato sauce, i gill Espagnole sauce, salt and pepper, paprika. Cook the mirepoix in a braising-pan until lightly browned, put in the duckling, and cook quickly until the surface is nicely coloured, then braise in the oven for fifteen minutes, then take up, and cut the duckling into small joints. Put the carcase and joints into the pan, add the tomato and Espagnole sauces, season to taste, and let simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Dress the duckling on a croute of fried bread on a dish, and keep hot. Cut the beetroot into julienne strips, toss in butter, season to taste, and surround the dish with this. Strain the sauce, remove the fat, add the cream, and let reduce to the desired consistency. Pour some of the sauce over the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Caneton a la Vitellus, Bone a large duckling, fry the liver with a little fat bacon, and pound, add i tablespoonful of brown sauce, 2 egg-yolks and season- ing, rub through a sieve, and spread this over the cut side of the duckling. Roll up and tie with string as for galantine. Place it in a braising-pan containing a mirepoix (onion, bay-leaf, carrot, and bacon or ham), and braise till nearly done. Take up the duckling, add a little butter to the braising-pan, chop up the car- case, and fry in this, pour off the fat, moisten with k gill port wine, i|- gill demi-glace sauce, simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain into a stewpan large enough to hold the braised duckling. Cook the latter gently in the sauce for another ten to fifteen minutes. To dress, have ready an oblong dish with a neat border of nouille paste, baked to a golden colour, cut the duckling into moderately thick slices, placing a warmed-up slice of truffle between them. Sauce over carefully with a little of the prepared sauce, and garnish with a few slices of glace cherries. Send the remainder of sauce iu a sauce-boat to the table. Caneton a la Crapaudine {Duckling, Crapaudine Style). I duckling, tablespoonfuls sweet oil, a bouquet garni (parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and clove), the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt, i fried breati croute. For the sauce : The giblets of the duckling, i oz. butter, t oz. Hour, the juice of half an orange, i ijint good stock, pepper and salt. Draw and singe the duckling, slit it open by cutting it through the back, cut off the wings, and use with giblets. Rub the duckling all over with oil, sprinkle over with lemon-juice, season lightly with pepper and salt, run a couple of skewers through the breast of the4b() ENTkfmS Ok POULtRW ETC. (HOT DISHES). duckling to keep it flat, and let it lie on a deep dish for an hour or two. Place the bouquet of herbs under the bird, pour over remainder of the oil, and keep covered. Put the whole in a dee]) saute-pan, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a rather quick oven from fwenty-hve to thirty-five minutes. Baste frequently, and dress it on a croute of fried bread when done. Use the same pan in which the duckling was cooked, add the butter, when hot put in the giblets, neck, liver, and wings, all chopped up small, fry over a c]uick fire, add the flour, and let it brown. Moisten with the stock and orange-juice, stir until it boils. Skim, and reduce to about half its original quantity. Season to taste, strain, colour with a few drops of caramel, if needed, boil np again, skim carefully, pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat, Caneton a la Bigarade (Gi'illcd Duckling with Orange Sauce). Singe a young duckling, and split it down the back, open it and flatten well. Season with pepper and salt, and place it in a roasting-tin with a little butter. Roast it for ten minutes or so in the oven, and finish till quite done over the grill. Cut it into neat joints, dish up, and serve with bigarade sauce. Quenelles de Canard aux Petits Pois {Quenelles of Duck with Green Peas). Prepare a light farce (mousse charaefer) of i duck, 6 oz. lean veal or beef, moisten with .a white of egg and about a gill of cream, season with salt and pepper, and sieve. Blanch a piece of beef- marrow, and cut it into eight small portions. Butter 8 kidney or bouche moulds, line each half wifh fhe prepared farce, place a piece of marrow and about a teaspoonful of Espagnole or l\Iadere sauce in one half of each mould, then close up. \\’hen moulds of this description are not available use a large spoon, and make quenelle shapes, with the marrow and sauce in centre. Poach the470 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. quenelles in stock or seasoned water, drain, and let cool on a sieve, then egg and breadcrumb them carefully, and fry to a golden brown in hot fat or nut oil. Dish them up in a nest-shaped basket of straw potatoes or nouilles, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve with sauce Bulgarienne, made as follows : To i gill of mayonnaise add 1 gill of boiling cream, a tablespoonfirl of finely chopped celery, and two tablespoon fuls of tomato pulp, whisk over a pan of hot water until quite warm, and season to taste. Darioles de Canard a la St. Germain [Darioles of Duck). I duck (large), pint well-reduced Madere sauce, 2 eggs, i gill of cream, I oz. panade, a small glass of port wine, i dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly, 2 tangerines, lb. of rough puff-paste for cassolettes or tartlet crusts, salt and pepper, \ pint of green peas cooked, flavoured with butter and green mint, sauce Zingara. Roll out the paste thinly, stamp out 8 to lo rounds with a fluted cutter, and line with them the same number of dariole or cassolette moulds, bake them to a golden brown, and put aside. Remove the meat from the duck, free it from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till quite fine, add the panade, the sauce, and egg-yolks. When the mixture is thoroughly pounded rub it through a fine sieve (hair or silk). Dissolve the red-currant jelly in the port wine, and stir into the farce. Season to taste, and add the beaten white of an egg, cream, juice of half a tangerine, also a little of its rind, grated finely. Butter 8 to lo special dariole moulds, fill them with the above farce, and poach in the oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould each into a cassolette paste crust, lined with a little pea puree, fill up the cavity of each dariole with a rich pea pfiree, or whole peas nicely flavoured. Re-heat them in the oven, place a section of tangerine skinned and free from pips and glazed on top of the peas, dish up, and serve with Zingara sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF ENTREES OF DUCK. Canard a I’Americaine.—Duck divided down the middle, rubbed over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney sauce, and seasoning, broiled in butter ; served with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped lemon pickles, and preserved mushrooms. — a la Bourgeoise.—Duck par-roasted and stewed, with button onions slightly fried, and reduced in Espagnole sauce, with red wine. — a la Saint-Mande.—Braised duck, served with Madere sauce ; garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons. — a la Valencienne.—Roasted duck, cut into joints, garnished with rows of slices of orange, and served with orange sauce. — a la Verjus.—Par-fried duck, stewed in demi-glace sauce containing blanched green grapes and red-currant jelly. Canetons a la Duclair.—Roast duckling stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopj)ed shallots, parsley, and seasoning. Cut into joints, dish uj), and serve with demi-glace sauce, well reduced with claret, orange-juice, and chojqied chives.ENTRiLES OE POULTRY, ETC. [HOT DISLIES). 471 Canetons a la Saint-Mande.—Braised ducklings, finished in Madere sauce, garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons. Croustade de Canard a la Chartraine.—French raised pie-crust lined with forcemeat and filled alternately with sausage meat and par-braised fillets of duck, baked in the oven. — braise d la Franpaise.- Braised duck (breast larded), stuffed with chestnuts, chopped onions, and savoury herbs ; served with port wine sauce. — a I’lrlandaise.—Par-roasted and stewed duck, with slices of fried onions, dice of fried ham, and port w'lie sauce. — a ritalienne.—Par-roasted duck, cut up, fried in oil, with cho})ped chives, parsley and herbs, stewed in Italian sauce. — a la Nivelle.—Boned duck, stuffed with chopped ham and beef made into forcemeat, braised, cut up, and sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Nivernaise.—Par-roasted duck, cut up and braised, with glazed turnips and demi-glace sauce. — aux Olives farcies.—Par-roasted duck, cut up and stewed in brown sauce with stuffed olives. --saute au Pecheur.—Par-fried portioms of duck, or tossed in butter, then stewed in demi-glace sauce, and garnished with crayfish tails. — a la Presse.—Roast fillets and wing portions of duck removed, carcase chopped and pressed, and the juice thus obtained is blended with chopped liver and port wine sauce ; this is strained over the dish. — a la ProvenQale.—Broiled duck, stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with braised carrots, turnips, and button onions. — a la Reforme.—Par-roasted duck, stewed in brown sauce, reduced with black-currant jelly and port wine. — a la Rouennaise.—Duck roasted “ rare ” and served with brown sauce containing finely chopped duck liver, duck juice, and shallots. (Ducklings or clucks can be served in the same manner as a roast by stuffing them with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, cho})ped parsley and shallots, egg and fresh butter.) Salmis de Canetons a la Vincent.—Ducklings stewed in a thin brown sauce. A well-flavoured Espagnole sauce, blanched green grapes, and a little red-currant jelly, are added as a garnish. The sauce is finished with a little fresh butter just before the grapes are added. DIE—GOOSE. Note.—In all cases where the bird is cooked whole it may if desired be served as Remove (Releve) Oie braisee, Sauce au Celeri {Braised Goose with Celery Sauce). Truss a goose in the same manner as for roasting, place it on a bed of vegetables (carrot, onion, celery, bay-leaf, beets, and slices of bacon) in a large braising-pan, season with salt and pepper, and put in the oven with about an ounce of butter spread on top of theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 472 goose. Cook first in rather a fierce heat to brown the surface nicely, and subsequently in moderate heat, basting frequently during the process. When nearly done take up the goose, cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Have ready about a gill of rich brown sauce, into which incorporate a small glass of port wine and a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly, place the pieces of goose into this, and cook gently till quite tender. Meanwhile prepare a celery sauce by mincing finely the white part of a cleaned and washed celery-head, fry this with an ounce of butter for a few minutes over the fire, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, cook while stirring for five minutes, and moisten with about three-quarters of a pint of white stock, stir till it boils, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Pass it through a sieve, re-heat, season, and serve with the goose. Oie a I’Anglaise.—Roast goose stuffed with sage and onion filling, and roasted ; served with apple sauce (separately) and gravy or brown sauce. Remove (Releve). — sautee a la Bourgeoise.—Broiled or par-roasted goose stewed in brown sauce, cut into joints, and garnished with green peas, braised carrots, and button onions. — aux Chataignes.—Stuffed goose with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and braised ; served with apple sauce (separately). Served as Remove. — a la Chipolata.—Roast or braised goose dished up with chipolata garnishing {see “ Dinde a la Chipolata”); served with apple sauce. — braiseaa la Dauphinoise.—Braised goose, stuffed with chestnut puree, minced shallot, and seasoning, served with a brown sauce mixed with some orange-juice and finely shredded orange-peel. — a I’Etouffade.—Goose stuffed with boiled chopped onions, sausage meat, breadcrumbs, and seasoning ; braised in oven, dished up with a border of glazed turnips, bi’own sauce. — a la Mont-Vernon.—Roast goose stuffed with a mixture of boiled onions finely chopped, and mashed potatoes, dished up with a border of halves of apples, baked in the oven till brown with goose- fat,. and served with thin brown sauce flavoured with a little red- currant jelly. — a rOrange.—Par-roasted goose, cut up in joints, stewed or braised, garnished with sliced oranges, and served with orange sauce. — braisee a la Polonaise.—Braised goose garnished with sourcrout (sauerkraut), veal quenelles, and small smoked pork sausages. Boudins de Foie-gras a la Parisienne.—Small goose-liver sausages, broiled, dished in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, served with Madere sauce. Quenelles de Foie-gras a la Perigueux.—Goose-liver (foie-gras) quenelles poached ; served with truffle sauce. Timbales d’Oie aux truffes.—Goose-liver (foie-gras) timbales, poached in the oven and served with perigord sauce.ENTRILES OF POULTRY, ETC. [HOT DISHES). 473 PIGEON—PIGEON. Pigeons braisee a la Valence. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 chicken livers, 2 truffles, 8 preserved niushrooius, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, a small sliced carrot, a small sliced onion, a small bouquet of herbs, i dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, i egg, i table- spoonful breadcrumbs, 2 oz. larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, i small glass of sherry or marsala, -J pint stock, \ pint demi-glace sauce, salt and pepper. Make a forcemeat of the breadcrumbs, parboil the livers, half of the mushrooms, one truffle, salt and pepper. Fill the pigeons with the forcemeat, truss them, and lard the breast portion with strips of larding bacon. Put the onion, carrot, and herbs into a saute-pan with a little stock, place the birds on top, and braise them in the oven for about thirty minutes. Toss the remaining mushrooms and truffle minced in the butter. Add the rest of the stock and the sance, simmer for fifteen minutes, dish up the birds and keep hot. Remove the fat from the sauce, boil up ; add the lemon-juice and wine, reduce a little, and strain. Cut the pigeons into neat portions and dish up, pour over the prepared sauce and serve. Pigeons Sautes aux Salsifits {Stewed Pigeons with Salsify). Truss two Bordeaux pigeons and put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of butter and 2 ounces of minced bacon. Season with salt and pepper, and cook them over a quick fire long enough to nicely brown the pigeons. iMoisten with a gill of gravy, co\-er the pan and cook the birds in the oven for half an hour or till tender. Wash and scrape a bundle of salsifv, cut them into three-inch lengths, and cook them till tender in plenty of salted water containing a tablespoonful of fiour. When done, drain them, and re-heat in a little butter, season with a little pepper and finely chopped parsley. Untruss the jfigeons and cut them up into neat joints. Dress them in the centre of an entree dish, and strain over the sauce previously freed from fat. Range the salsify neatly round the pigeons, and serve hot. Pigeons en Casserole a la Beige. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 oz. butter, i gill gravy, I gill brown sauce, i gill Marsala or sherry wine, i small cabbage, 6 thin slices bacon, i small onion, seasoning. Truss the pigeons as for roasting, put them in an earthenware stewpan containing the butter (heated), brown them quickly, cook in the oven for ten minutes, take them up, untruss, and cut them into neat joints. Peel the onion, fry a nice brown in the butter, and pour off the butter. Blamh the cabbage and divide it into six portions, fry the bacon, roll up each slice of bacon in a portion of cabbage, arrange these in a layer in the earthenware pan, place the joints of pigeon on top, moisten with the stock, sauce, and the wine. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, cover the pan, and set it in the oven to cook for about half an hour. Remove any fat that may float on the surface, and send the casserole to table as it leaves the oven.474 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Godard. Bone two or more Bordeaux pigeons. Prepare a forcemeat of veal and pork, mix it with foie-gras pate, cut into dice or cubes, and stuff the birds with this. Trim the pigeons, braise them with a mirepoix of carrot, onion, bacon, and herbs, and Chablis, and when ready cut them into slices and dish up on a hot dish. Sauce over with a rich supreme sauce flavoured with some of the liquor obtained from braising the pigeons. Garnish with mushroom- heads, braised sweetbread cut into dice, and crayfish tails. Serve hot. It is advisable to dress the pigeons on a crouton of fried bread, fixed in the centre of the dish. Pigeons a la Polonaise. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 6 oz. streaky bacon, 8 oz. ctiicken livers or calf’s liver, I small onion, i egg, i oz. butter, breadcrumbs, seasoning, frying- fat, demi-glace sauce. Bone the pigeons, cut the bacon into small pieces, fry in a saute-pan with a little butter, and when almost done add a finely- minced onion, and fry likewise. Add the liver, previously cleaned and sliced, season with finely-powdered savoury herbs, salt, and pepper, cook over a quick fire for a few minutes, pound in a mortar till fine, then rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve. Fill the pigeons with this farce, truss them, and roast them in the oven, basting them frequently with oiled butter. When nearly done take up and let cool. Brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry them in deep hot fat for about ten minutes. Take up the pigeons, strain, untruss, and dish up. Pour some sauce round the dish, or send some separately to the table. Pigeons en Casserole a la Royale. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 finely chopped shallots, a small bunch savoury herbs (bouquet garni), 8 to lO preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. bacon, i wine- glassful marsala or sherry, 2 oz. butter, 4 pint demi-glace sauce, seasoning, and chicken farce (p. 178), t fowl, 2 oz. panade, i egg, and ]- pint bechamel. Cut the ])igeons into neat joints and fry the pieces in a saute- pan for a few minutes a nice golden colour. In an earthenware casserole fry the shallots a pale brown, with the bacon cut into slices, pour off the butter, and lay in the pieces of pigeon, the mush- rooms (cut into slices), and the bouquet of herbs, season to taste with pepper and salt, and moisten with the sauce and the wine. Put it in the oven and cook for ten minutes, then remove the herbs, cover neatly with chicken farce, return to the oven, and cook very gently from thirty to forty minutes. Send to table in the casserole in which the birds are cooked. Pigeons farcis a la Princesse. 3 Bordeaux pigeons, i bundle of sprue or pint of asparagus tops, 6 large sauce oysters, f lb. lean beef, 4 oz. butter, lt>- of panade, i gill Espagnoie sauce, i-J- oz. meat glaze, 3 yolks of eggs, pint sauce Italienne, mashed potatoes for border, pepper and salt. Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast-bones and beat them flat with a cutlet-bat. Remove fat and sinews from the beef, cut up small and pound in a mortar, add the btttter andENTR^:ES of poultry, etc. [HOT DISHES). 475 panade, work in the egg-yolks, season to taste, and mb through a line sieve. Mix about a tablespoonful of Espagnole sauce with the forcemeat and spread over the cut side of the^ pigeons. Place a bearded oyster in the centre of each, fold in a neat shape, and sew up with string. Enclose separately in buttered paper, })ut them in a buttered saute-pan, and cook them in a hot oven with a glass of sherry and the remainder of brown sauce. Remove the papers and strings, brown the pigeons under a salamander, and glaze with dissolved meat glaze. Dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, with a stew of asparagus points in the centre, and serve with Italienne sauce. The asparagus points should be washed, blanched, and cooked tender in salted water, well strained, moist- ened with the sauce left over from the pigeons, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Timbales de Pigeon a la Supreme. Remove the meat from two Bordeaux pigeons, pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of dried beef suet and two ounces of bacon cut into strips. Rub it through a wire sieve, return it to the mortar, add two ounces of butter, three chopped mushrooms, two ounces of panade, and a tablespoonful of allemande (p. 141) or veloutee (p. r6i) sauce, season well with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, work it thoroughly, and add gradually two whole eggs and one yolk of egg. Butter twelve small timbale moulds, line them rather thickly with the above farce, place a dessertspoonful of salpicon, pigeon, ham, tongue, trulfies, and mushrooms in the centre of each, cover, till np with the farce. Place them in a saute-pan, pour in a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, bring it to the boil over the fire, and place in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out, dish them up in a circle, place a small mush- room head and a piece of truffle on each, pour some supreme sauce over and around them, garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste and fancy shapes of sliced ox-tongue. Ballotines de Pigeons a la Financiere.—Bordeaux pigeons, boned, stuffed with foie-gras and liver farce and truffles, shaped like little galan- tines, boiled in stock, and glazed, dressed on a crouton of bread, garnished with financiere, i.e. mushrooms, cocks’ combs, kernels, truffles, dice of cooked sweetbread, and sauced over with a rich demi-glace. Chartreuse de Pigeons a la Rouennaise.—Braised pigeons, dressed in the centre of a border composed of carrots, turnips, braised (savoy) cabbage and small squares of boiled pickled pork, all set in a sym- metrical row. Garnish the dish with slices of smoked pork sausages, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Compote de Pigeons a I’Americaine.—Stewed pigeons with small squares of fried bacon and medium-sized button onions, slightly sugared and fried in butter. Served with brown sauce mixed with a small quantity of cranberry jelly.476 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Compote de Pigeons a la Bourgeoise.—Par-boiled pigeons, stewed in brown sauce with a little claret, small fried button onions, savoury herbs flavouring. Served with a garniture of cooked young carrots, green peas, and glazed button onions. — aux Pointes d’Asperges.—Pigeons cut in halves, boned, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, and partly braised. When cold press them between two dishes, egg, crumb, and fry them in clarified butter. Serve with a brown sauce (flavoured with sherry or port wine), and garnish with stewed asparagus points. — a la Rentiere.—Braised, stewed in brown sauce, enriched with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. — en Supreme.—Halves of pigeons, boned, except the legs, flattened, seasoned, fried, pressed, pared. Filled with chicken salpicon and truffles, and shaped into the form of cutlets. Egged, crumbed, fried, and served with veloutee sauce, thickened with cream, egg- yolks, and butter. Cotelettes de Pigeons a la NiQoise.—Bordeaux pigeons cut in halves, boned, and spread over with foie-gras farce, shaped like cutlets, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. Dressed on a bed of risotto, mixed with truffles, served with demi-glace sauce. — a la ProvenQale.—Bordeaux pigeons boned, excepting legs, cut in halves, and seasoned, broiled in oil, pressed, immersed in oiled butter, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with Provengale sauce. Pate de Pigeon a I’Anglaise {English Pigeon Pie).—Parboiled stuffed pigeons cut into halves, filled into a pie-dish, with slices of rump- steak, parsley, seasoning, and hard-boiled slices of eggs and stock, covered with pie-crust and baked, served hot or cold. Pigeons a la Crapaudine.—Bordeaux pigeons split open, put on skewers, egged, crumbed and broiled, served with brown sauce, stoned olives, and sliced truffles. — a I’Espagnole.—Braised pigeons, with dice shapes of fried ham, served with Espagnole sauce, flavoured with white wine and chilli vinegar. — a la Marigny.—Halves of pigeons seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked cooked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven, served with Madere sauce. — en Matelote.—Pigeons cut into joints, seasoned, broiled in butter and thin slices of bacon, stewed in a brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped chives, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Garnished with fried button onions. — ^la Nivernaise.—Stewed, with braised turnips. — en Papillotes {Pigeons in Cases).—Pigeons cut in halves and boned, well seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver forcemeat, chopped shallots, and parsley, and sliced button mushrooms. Dressed in well-buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. — a la Sainte-Menehould.—Braised pigeons (whole) cut into halves, glazed, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and browned in a sharp oven, served with sauce Remoulade.ENTRfiES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 477 Pigeons a la Talleyrand.—Braised Bordeaux pigeons, garnished with artichoke bottoms, mnshroomdieads, braised chicken liver and ox-tongue, heated in veloutee sauce. — a la Villageoise.— Pigeons braised whole in butter, herbs, etc., similar to that in casserole, served with a thin brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. Ponding de Pigeons a I’Anglaise {English Pigeon Pudding).—Pigeons cut into neat pieces, seasoned, tilled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), with thin slices of rumpsteak, hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and stock, covered with suet crust and boiled or steamed. POULARDE PULLET OR CAPON; POULET—CHICKEN. Medallions de Poularde a la Reine Alexandra. I pullet or large fowl. 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. pauacle, i egg, i gill cream, pint of asparagus points, 4 pint veloutee or allemancle sauce, 1 truffle (large), a little lobster spawn, seasoning, cooked rice for border. Remove the meat from the fotvl, and free from skin and sinews. Flatten some of the best pieces, and shape them into round fillets or medaillons. Cook them for a few minutes in a saute-pan con- taining the butter, drain, and press lightly until cold. Put the remainder of the meat into a mortar and pound till smooth, adding half its quan- tity of panade, one white of egg, and suf- ficient cream to form a farce of medium consistency. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and rub it through a fine sieve. Now spread one side of the medaillons with a thick layer of this farce, smooth it nicely by means of a knife dipped in hot water. Mix the remainder of farce with sufficient pounded lobster coral to give it a red tint, and pipe a neat border of a star or rosette on each medaillon. Slice the truffle, cut out the letters A.R., and place carefully in the centre of each. x\rrange the medaillons on a well-bnttered drainer to fit the pan in which they are to be poached, put them in the pan containing some boiling consomme, and allow to cook gently for about twenty minutes. Cook the asparagus points in salted water, drain, and toss them in the butter in which the fillets were first cooked, moisten with a little white sauce, and season to taste. Arrange a border of cooked rice on a hot dish, dish up the medaillons on it, dress the asparagus ragout in the centre, pour a litde hot white sauce round the base of the dish.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 478 and serve the remainder separately in a sance-boat. The sauce should be carefully warmed, and any cream left over stirred into it a few minutes before it is required. Medallions de Volaille a la Careme. T large fowl or Surrey capon, 2 oz. butter, a mirepoix (bacon, carrot, and onion cut in dice), a small bunch of savoury herbs, i gill white stock, -1-gill bearnaise sauce, i tablespoonful sherry, i oz. meat glaze, 2 truffles, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, seasoning. Remove the breasts and wing portions of the fowl or capon, take off the skin and sinews, flatten each piece with a wetted cutlet- bat, and pare into rottnd or oval shapes ; each breast should make two shapes. Prepare the mirepoix and fry a little in a saute-pan with a little butter, put the fillets on top of this. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with stock, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cut the truffle, mushrooms, and tongue into cubes or julienne strips, and heat up in a little stock, butter, and sherry wine. As soon as the fillets are done take them up, trim a little, and dress in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a round dish ; fill the centre with the prepared garnish of truffle, tongue, and mushrooms. Have ready some bearnaise sauce, incorporate with this the meat glaze, pour some of the sauce over the garnish, the remainder round the base of the dish, and send to table. The sauce must be rather stiff in appearance, the meat glaze has to be worked in gradually, and great care must be taken that the bearnaise sauce does not boil. Poularde soufflee a I’Orlofl. I fat pullet, I small chicken, 2 or '3 whites of egg, i V pint cream, a few slices fat bacon, a sliced carrot, i sliced onion, a bouquet garni, -J- pint stock, I oz. butter, pepper"and .salt, nutmeg, veloutee or supreme sauce, financiere garniture. Truss the pullet the same as for boiling, line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the carrot, onion, and bouquet, lay in the bird, cover the top with the butter, put in a hot oven for ten minutes, moisten with the stock, season, cover with a buttered paper, and braise until about three-parts done. Remove the pullet and let it get cold. Bone the chicken, free the meat from skin and gristle, chop finely, and pound till quite smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, return to the mortar, work in the whites of egg, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ca3^enne, and a susDicion of nutmeg. Whip the cream and mingle with the forcemeat. Untruss the pullet, with a sharp-pointed knife cut out the breasts and bones, so that it forms an oval case ; place it in a sautepan (buttered), fill the hollow part with a fourth part of the prepared forcemeat, poach in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, cut the two breast fillets into scollops, range them in two rows on fop of the force- meit, coat with a little sauce, return to the oven for another ten minutes or so, put the remainder of the forcemeat on top, smooth neatly, fasten a paper band round it if necessary, and finish cooking in a moderate oven. Dress the poularde whole on a bed of cooked rice, on a large silver dish, garnish the sides w.th financiere pre-ENTRliES OE POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 479 viously warmed in a little sauce (arrange the garniture in groups or clusters), pour over some rich veloutee or supreme sauce, and serve hot. Note.—It is safest to test the forcemeat first; if found too stiff add a little more cream, and if found too liquid add a little more white of egg whipped to a stiff froth, Poularde a la Saint Valentin. Pullet cut up, sauted, and stewed in brown sauce with finely- chopped truffles and mushrooms, garnished with heads of mush- rooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, made into balls, tleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff-pastry), and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce, reduced with Madeira or sherry. Poularde Roi Edouard VII. Truss a large fat fowl for boiling, fill the interior with a rich white rice stew mixed with a handful of foie-gras cut in dice, and moistened with veloutee sauce, sew up the skin and cook the fowl in rich white stock en casserole till tender. Prepare a veloutee sauce flavoured with curry, reduce it with some of the chicken liquor, and add a little cream. Dress the cooked fowl on a hot dish, coat it well with the prepared sauce, and decorate the top with stars and diamond shapes of red pimiento (mild Spanish pepper). The dish is then ready for serving. ABBREVIATED RECIPES CHAPON—CAPON PULLET. Note.—Many of these dishes may, if left whole, be served as Remove (Releve) ; but when cut up, sauced over and garnished, they become Entrees. Turkeys can be treated in the same way. Chapon a la Bourgeoise.—Braised capon cut into small joints and finished in a brown sauce blended with tomato sauce, and white wine (reduced), garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions. — a la Cavour.—Stuffed capon braised (breast larded and glazed), served with reduced allemande sauce well worked with meat extract and lemon-juice, garnished with small timbales, baked nouilles or macaroni. — a la Chanceliere,—Braised capon (breast larded) finished and served with a well-spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon glazed). — - braise a I’Estragon.—Braised capon with lirown tarragon sauce. — saut6 a la Fraiujaise.—Parboiled and liraised capon, finished in white wine sauce, with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — brais6 a la Garfield.—Braised capon (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly. — au Gros Sel.—Braised capon, breast lardecl, and covered with thin rind of lemon. Served with reduced demi-glace sauce, containing a small quantity of coarse salt. This must be added just before serving (hence the name, “gros sel,” i.e. coarse salt).48o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Chapon du Mans a la Marechale.—Capon, braised white, dressed on a bed of cooked rice, sauced over with supreme sauce, garnished with cocks’ combs, mushroom-heads, truffle slices, and sweetbread. — a la Perigueux.—Boned capon stuffed with foixemeat and chopped truffles, roasted or braised ; served with perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. — a la Piemontaise.—Roast capon stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truffles, served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste quenelles, which are stuffed with veal forcemeat and well-reduced tomato puree 6r tomato paste. — braise a la St. Cloud.—Braised capon (breast larded with strips of truffles and bacon) ; Madeira sauce. — en Supreme.—Blanched and boiled in rich stock, skin removed when jointed ; finished in supreme sauce and garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. Quenelles de Chapon a la Vatel.—Poached forcemeat quenelles made of capon, centre hlled with chojiped truffles and mushrooms, served with a brown truffle sauce. Timbales de Chapon a la Princesse.—Timbales of capon forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles ; poached, and served with supreme sauce. Poularde braisee a la Chicoree.—Braised pullet with stewed endive or chicory. — a la Doria.—Pullet or large Surrey fowl stuffed with cooked rice mixed with dice shapes of foie-gras and truffles, and braised whole (white), dressed on socle ; garnished with artichoke bottoms, and sauced over with supreme sauce. — a la Grand Due.—Fat pullet or poularde, fried in casserole and braised with a rich brown sauce flavoured with port wine and old brandy ; garnished with asparagus points, slices of foie-gras, and truffles. — a la Milton.—Galantine of capon or poularde, braised in white stock, served with supreme sauce and garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. farcie a la Perigueux.—Pullet stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. — en Petit-Deuil.—Braised capon or poularde, with whole truffles inserted in bird whilst Irraising ; cut uj) and finish cooking in veloutee sauce. — bouillie a la Turque.—Boiled pullet, cut up, dressed in a rice border with tomato sauce. Poulet en Casserole {Casserole of Chicken). Trim a tender fowl the same as for boiling or braising, and rub the skin well with the cut side of a lemon. Take an earthenware braising-pot, large enough to hold the fowl, put in two to three ounces of butter, three or four button onions, peeled and stuck with two cloves, and a full bouquet garni (this means with ever}’ herb to hand, but very little of each), add to this a handful of bacon cut into dice. Allow to get hot, put in the fowl, cook very gently on the stove for about one hour, baste the fowl frequently and turn it from time to time. When done pour off the fat, season the^8 ENTRIES or POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). fowl with salt and pepper, moisten with a ladleful of rich gravy or a tablespoonful of licpielied meat glaze, put it in the oven for about ten minutes, and baste it well with the liquor. Take up the fowl, untruss, place it in an earthenware pot, strain any liquid remaining in the pan over the fowl, and serve. The fowl may also be dressed on a bed (jf rice, which should be cooked in good stock to the desired consistenc3^ This mode of cooking a fowl is known in France as “ poeler,” and is usually performed upon burning embers or charcoal, the pan used being a fireproof earthenware casserole. It would then be more correct to send the fowl to table in the casserole. Poulet en Casserole {Anothev way). I plump chicken, trussed for roasting, 4 slices of streaky bacon, 10 small button onions, i oz. butter, 1- gill rich stock or gravy, i glass white wine, gill demi-glace .sauce, salt and pepper. Cut the bacon into dice shapes, melt the butter in an earthen- ware braising-pot, put in the bacon and the fowl. Allow it to lightly brown over a fairly brisk fire, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock or gravy and the wine, cover the pan, and let the contents cook gently for half an hour or longer. Peel and blanch the onions in boiling water, drain them, and fry in the fat left over from the fowl. Take up the fowl, untruss, cut it into joints, replace the pieces in the pot with the bacon, add the onions and the sauce. Cook for another twenty minutes, skim well, season to taste, and send to table in the earthenware pan. Note.—When cooking the chicken in the second stage the lid of the pan may be sealed dov’n with a paper or paste band to ensure hermetical sealing ; this is said to produce a still finer flavour to all dishes cooked ai casserole. Poulet a la Duchesse {Chicken, Duchess Style). I boiled chicken (small), 6 oz. lean ham, 12 preserved mushrooms, 2 French gherkins, 1 pint veloutee or bechamel .sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, i 11). potatoes, I oz. butter, gill cream, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. HHTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Free the chicken from skin and bone, and cnt the meat into small portions, cut the ham, mushrooms, and gherkins in slices. Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, drain, and rub through a fine sieve, put them in a stewpan, mix with the butter and cream, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; when thoroughly hot, mix in the egg-yolks, and keep hot. Bring the sauce to a boil, put in the chicken, ham, and gherkins, stir gently, and let it get hot, and season with pepper and salt. Fill a buttered border- mould with the potato puree, turn out on a dish, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Serve the chicken, etc., in the centre, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley. Poulet a la Hongroise {Chicken, Hungarian Style). I fat tender chicken, 4 oz, butter, 3 oz. flour, r gill white wine, | pint milk, I dessertspoonful chopped parsley, i lemon, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg, 3 oz. rice, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, t pint stock. Cut the chicken into neat joints, the same as for “ Poulet a la Cabello,” saute brown the pieces slightly on both sides in a saute-pan, with about two and a half ounces of butter. Season with paprika, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Drain off some of the butter, sprinkle over the flour, brown a little, then add the wine and milk (previously boiled), stir well, and simmer very gently from twenty to thirty minutes. Add the parsley last of all. Wash, blanch, and cook the rice with stock. Season with nutmeg, salt, and paprika, add remainder of butter, ham or tongue, cut into small dice. Butter a border-mould, fill up with rice (pack firmly), turn out on a round flat dish. Dress the chicken in the centre of the border, strain the sauce, reduce again, add the juice of half a lemon, and finish with a little more butter. Pour over the chicken, and serve. Poulet en Cocotte [Fowl in Pipkin). 1 fowl, trussed for boiling, 8-12 small button onions, 4 oz. bacon, streaky, 2 oz. butter, 12 new jjotatoes, i gill demi-glace sauce, i glass mar.sala or sherry, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut the bacon into dice and fry in a saute-pan with the onions, previously peeled, take out the onions, and put them on a plate, put the fowl in a fireproof pan (casserole), pour over the bacon and fat, also a little butter, season with pepper and salt. Let the fowl brown over the fire, then cover and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. Meanwhile, wash and scrape the potatoes, blanch and drain them, finally saute them in butter in a saute-pan. Pour the fat off the fowl. Add the wine, sauce, and button onions, return to the oven and cook for another fifteen minutes. Take up the fowl, untruss, and dish up, surround it with the button onions and potatoes. Season the sauce to taste, and pour a little over the fowl. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat, and send to table with the fowl. Fricassee de Poulet [Fricassee of Chicken). Simmer a young fowl for three-quarters of an hour, closely covered, then untruss and cut into neat joints. Cook together in a saucepan two tablespoon fills of butter and two of flour for a few483 ENTRIiES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES' minutes, but do not allow it to brown, add slowly a' pint of the strained stock of the fowl, boil ten minutes. Mix in another dish the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter, and a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper, add this carefully to the hot sauce, stirring all the time, let the sauce get thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and strain over the pieces of fowl. Dish up the cooked fowl (the skin may be removed if liked) on a bed of cooked rice. Sauce over carefully, and serve very hot. Some sliced preserved mushrooms put with the sauce will make an improvement to the fricassee. Filets de Poulet aiix Groseilles {Fried Chicken Fillets). Remove the breasts of two chickens, pare and trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip them in white of egg and cover with fresh breadcrumbs. Make a farce with the remainder of meat of the chickens, fill up a well-greased border-mould, and poach it in the oven for thirty-five minutes. Cut the carcase into small pieces, and fry in butter with a small onion and a bouquet garni, pour off the fat, add a gill of demi-glace sauce, half a gill of rich gravy, and a dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly, allow this to reduce well, strain, and season to taste. Fry the crumbed fillets in clarified butter. Dish up the border and fill the centre with green peas, tossed in butter. Cut the fillets in halves and place neatly on top. Pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Poulet fare! a la Reine Olga {Stuffed Chicken). I chicken, 4 oz. fresh breadcrumbs, 4 oz. l)utter, 2 oz. finely chopped cooked ham, cubes of raw ham, 8 thin slices of streaky bacon, | pint demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry or marsala, i lemon. Prepare a farce of the breadcrumbs, 2 oz. butter, ham, season to taste; place this inside the body of the chicken, and truss it, stud the breast portion with small cubes of raw ham. Melt 2 oz. of butter in an earthenware casserole, put in the chicken, and let it acquire a light brown colour over the fire, then pour off some of the butter. Par-fry the slices of bacon, put them with the chicken, add the demi-glace sauce and sherry or marsala, cover, and cook in the oven till the chicken is tender, basting it occasionallv. Have ready an oval-shaped fireproof casserole as serving dish, cut the chicken into neat joints, put them into this with the stuffing, grate a very little lemon-rind on top. Remove the fat from the sauce, and strain it over the chicken, place the bacon on top, cover, and re-heat for about ten minutes in the oven. Put the casserole on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Poulet frit a la Tyrolienne [Fried Chicken). I tender chicken, i whole egg, and i yolk of egg, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and ,=alt, breadcrumbs, clarified butter or lartl, tomato sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 484 Draw, singe, and wipe the chicken, and cnt it into small joints. Beat up the eggs, melt the butter, mix both together, add the chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Dip the pieces of chicken in this, cover with breadcrumbs, when set repeat this operation. Fry in hot lard or butter a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramid form, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. Unless the chicken used be young and tender, and the joints be cut small, this dish will not be a success. Cold pieces of fowl or game can be served in the same way, but should be skinned before being egged and crumbed. Poulet frit a la Villeroi [Fried Chicken). I fowl, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, 2 cloves, and savoury herbs, i pint stock, 2 oz. butter, \ oz. flour, i glass white wine, 3 yolks of eggs, i whole egg, lemon-juice, l>readcrumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, parsley. Braise the fowl in the usual manner, and cut it into neat joints. Put the carcase into the stewpan in which the fowl has been cooking, remove the fat beforehand, add the wine, and boil up. Strain or reduce the stock a little. Cook the flour in the remainder of butter (i oz.), but do not allow it to brown, stir in the stock, add the juice of half a lemon, and let reduce to a moderate consistency. Stir in the egg-yolks, and let bind. Dip the pieces of fowl in this sauce after it has cooled, cover each piece completely, and put in a dish. When set, brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread- crumbs, fry them in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Quenelles de Volaille [Chicken Quenelles) I fowl, weighing about il lb., i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill milk or white stock, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning, bechamel sauce. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, dilute with the milk or stock, stir until it becomes a smooth paste, that leaves the sides of the stewpan clean, spread on a plate to cool. Pound the meat of the fowl in a mortar till smooth, work in by degrees the panade, eggs, and cream, season with pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a saute- pan, shape some quen- elles by means of two spoons, dip one spoon into hot water and fill w i t h forcemeat, smooth its surface with a knife dipped in hot water, and remove the quenelle with the second spoon, and place on to the saute-pan. Pour boiling stock or water carefully around the quenelles, and poach them for about fifteen minutes. When done, take np, drainENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 485 on a hair sieve, dress them neatly on a hot dish, garnish the centre of the dish with green peas or s])inach puree, and serve with a nicely-cooked, flavoured white sauce, which should be poured over the quenelles. Poulet saute a la Cabello. I young chicken, I gill olive oil, 1 orange, | pint ilemi-glace sauce, t gill tomato sauce, 4 oz. butter, i glass port wine, 4 pint of preserved pimientos (sweet), a tablespoonful meat glaze, seasoning. Cut the chicken into six to eight joints, dry them, and fry a nice light brown colour in the oil. Pour off the oil and season the chicken with salt, pepper (white and red), add the orange rind, grated, wine, and sauces (demi-glace and tomato), cover, cook gently for about twenty minutes, dress the pieces neatly on a dish containing a small bed of potato puree, and keep it hot. Fry the butter till nut-brown, and pour over the chicken. Moisten the pimientos cut into julienne shapes, with a little demi-glace, heat, add to the meat glaze, and dress in the centre of the dish or in groups round its base. Re-heat the sauce, skim it, season to taste with a good pinch of aromatic spice. Strain it over the chicken, and serve very hot. Poulet saute a la Carnot. I chicken, i oz. butter, i shallot, i glass sherry, i gill Espagnole sauce, I gill tomato sauce, about -4 lb. short-crust paste, 4 oz. grated cheese, 4 oz. cooked game or beef, i oz. ham, 4 oz. butter, i tablespoonful well- reduced bechamel, 2 yolks of eggs, i hard-boiled egg, salt, pepper, i truflle, a croute of fried bread. Draw, singe, and cut the chicken into lo or 12 neat pieces, melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the pieces, season with pepper and salt, and fry a golden colour over a brisk Are, adding the shallot, finely chopped, at the last moment, so as to blend a little. Add the sherry, cover and reduce a little, then add tomato and Espagnole sauce, put on the lid, and let simmer gently for about forty minutes. Roll out the paste and with it line six or more buttered little dariole moulds. Put greased paper inside the paste. All the moulds with raw rice or dried peas, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for flfteen minutes, or until they are of a nice golden colour. Turn out the rice, remove the paper, and fill with the following mixture : Cut the ham and game or beef into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the bechamel sauce, butter, and hard-boiled yolk of egg, pound well, work in the two raw yolks, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a wire sieve. Crrt the truffle into slices and stamp out as many rounds as you have cases, chop the trimmings finely, and mix with the above. The filling must be done very carefully, and is best performed with a forcing-bag. Sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up the chicken on a croute of fried bread, fi.xed on a hot dish by means of a little batter or white of egg. Skim oft the fat from the sauce, and strain over the chicken. Cut some slices of hard-boiled white of egg, stamp out neatly some triangle or heart shapes, cut out theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 486 centre so as to receive the slices of truffle previously prepared, place these tastefully on the baked cases, and dress them round the croute. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Note.—These croustades or timbales make a very pretty second course or savoury dish, served by themselves or as a garnish. Poulet saute a la Chasseur. I fat chicken or fowl, -f oz. butter, ^ gill salad oil, i glass sherry, i small onion, 2 oz. raw ham, 6 oz. rice, i gill salmi or game sauce, } pint Espagnole sauce, 10 preserved mushrooms, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Draw, singe, and cut the fowl into neat joints. Put the oil and butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the pieces of chicken, season with pepper and salt, fry a light brown over a quick Are, add the onion, finely chopped, and the ham, cut into slices or squares. Fiy a few minutes longer, drain off the fat, add the sherry and Espagnole sauce, and let simmer slowly for about half an hour. Wash the rice, blanch it in slightly salted water, drain, and cook till tender with a little stock and the game sauce, season with pepper and salt. Put the rice in a buttered plain-border mould, pack tightly, and turn out on a hot dish. Chop the mushrooms finely, put with the chicken, add a few drops of lemon-juice, cook a few minutes longer. Dish up the chicken in the centre of the rice, slip a little cutlet frill on each end of the legs before the sauce and garnish are added, and serve. Poulet a la Chevriot. 1 Surrey fowl, 2 quarts veal stock, 12 small champiguoiis, 6 cocks’ combs aud kernels, 8-10 small button onions (peeled and blanched), 2 oz. butter. 2 slices sour apple, 2 oz. cooked rice, i pint veloutee sauce, 2 egg-yolks, I gill cream, i lemon, Fleurons (half-moon shapes of pastry), i teaspoonful curry powder. Truss the fowl for boiling, cook in seasoned veal stock till tender, cut it into neat joints, and remove the skin. Prepare a rich sauce. Blend the onions in a little butter, and cook in stock. Blend theENTREES OE FOULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 487 curry-powder in -J- oz. of butter, chop the apple hnely and add to the curry and butter, stir over the hre and add the veloutt'e sauce. W'hen boiling, skim, and cook gently until the apple is tender, then strain and re-heat, add the egg-yolk and cream, also the juice of half a lemon, when hot and blended. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and paprika, place in the pieces of chicken and the garniture, onions, champignons, cocks’ combs and kernels, and keep hot till rec]uired for table. Toss the rice in butter for a few minutes, and moisten with a little rich chicken stock. With the pastry shapes hx up a neat border on a round flat dish, put the rice as a bed in the dish, and dress the cooked fowl, etc., neatly on the rice. Sauce over carefully, garnish the edge of the disH with thin slices of lemon, and serve hot. Poulet saute a la Duroc. Joint the chicken in the usual manner for sauteing, season, and fry in oil, drain, and cook till tender in a rich tomato sauce. Dish up and garnish with slices of mushrooms, stuffed olives, sauted chicken livers, and fried bread croutons. Poulet saute a la Marengo. I good-sized chicken, i gill best salad oil, i gill brown sauce (Espagnole, p. 148), I gill tomato sauce (p. 160), i shallot, i glass marsala, 8 preserved mushrooms, i truffle, salt and pepper, 3 eggs, and puff-paste Fleurcns for garnish. Cut the chicken into eight neatly trimmed joints, and put them in a stewpan or saute-pan with the oil, fry tjuickly to slightly brown the outside of the chicken, now add the shallot, finely chopped. Pour off the oil into a smaller stewpan, add the two kinds of sauce, the’’mush- rooms, the truffle, both being cut into slices. Cover the pan, season with pepper and salt, and set it in the oven to stew for about forty minutes. Fry the eggs in the oil — they must be shaped just like poached eggs (not flat). Pile the pieces of chicken neatly on a silver dish, and arrange the mushrooms, eggs, cock’s comb, and truffle round and on top of it. Strain over the sauce, previously freed from fat, garnish with tleurons, i.c. half-moon or crescent shapes of baked puff-paste, aud serve. Poulet saute a la Plombieres. Cut up into neat joints two tender chickens, and a cpiarter of a pound of streaky bacon into dice. Dissolve two ounces of butterthe new century cookery book. 488 in a saute-pan, fry the bacon a little, add the chicken, together with two finely-chopped shallots, and fry over a brisk fire until nicely browned. Mix a tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of mild curry - powder, and a dessertspoonful of finely desiccated unsweetened cocoanut. Sprinkle this over the chicken, stir well over the fire, moisten with a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of brandy, rather more than a pint of white stock or water, and add a small bunch of parsley and half a bay-leaf. Bring it gently to the boil, season, add also a little nutmeg, a teaspoonful of red- currant jelly, and the juice of half a sour orange. Let it simmer slowly from about thirty to forty minutes. Skim off the fat, remove the herbs, and if too thick add a little more stock or water. Dress the pieces of chicken neatly in the centre of a plain rice border, together with the garniture and sauce. Sprinkle on the thin rincl of half an orange, finely shred and warmed, garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste, and serve. Poulet saute a la Savoyarde. I large tender fowl. 4 oz. fresh fat pork, i oz. butter, i glass marsala or sherry, i dessertspoonful finely chopped herbs, t pint demi-glace sauce, pint of chestnut puree (nicely seasoned and cooked in rich stock), seasoning, 8 to 10 croutons of fried bread cut into half-moon shapes. Proceed with the fowl, pork, and butter as directed in preceding recipe. When nicely browned add the sauce and herbs, and simmer till the fowl is tender. Let the chestnut puree be hot and rather stiff, half fill a wide timbale mould with it, turn on to a dish to form a bed, and dress the fowl upon it. Boil up the sauce, skim, season to taste, and pour over the fowl. Garnish with the bread croutons, which must be previous!}/ dipped in liquefied meat glaze. Poulet grille a I’ltalienne [Grilled Chicken). Split the chicken down the back, spread out and flatten well, rub both sides with lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt. Insert two or three skewers so as to keep the chicken quite flat, immerse in sweet oil for about ten minutes, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and grill it over or in front of a bright fire. Fry two chopped shallots in butter, add a finely-chopped anchovy, freed from bone, one glass of marsala wine, and a gill of tomato puree. Cook for ten minutes, then add one fresh slicecl tomato and a table- spoonful of meat extract. Boil again, skim, pass through a sieve, re-heat, and season to taste. Dish up the chicken, remove the skewers, garnish with cauliflower bud and artichoke bottoms cut into strips, pour the sauce round, and serve. Poulet saute a la Cavour Cut up a large fowl into neat joints and saute it the same as directed in " Poulet Saute a la Carnot.” Finish cooking it in a rich brown sauce flavoured with curry and saffron, garnish with small timbales of rice similarly flavoured.489 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Poussins frits a la Lyonnaise { Fried Chic-Chickcns). 2 or 3 (according to size) very small spring chickens (baby chickens), the juice of 2 lemons, 2 bay-leaves, i teaspoonful of chopped chives, a few sprigs of chervil, pepper and salt, clarified butter, frying-batter, i or 2 small Spanish onions, tomato sauce. Singe, draw, and quarter the chickens. Blanch them in slightly salted water, dry them with a cloth, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over the chives, chervil, bay-leaves, and lemon-juice, and cover with another dish. Let stand for two hours, then drain the pieces of chicken, dip them in frying-batter, and cook a light brown in clarified butter or butter and lard mixed in ecpial proportions. Drain and keep hot. Peel the onions, cut them into thin slices, di\'ide into rings, dip them first in milk and then in flour. Fry in plenty of hot fat till crisp and of a golden brown. Dish up the chickens, and garnish tastefully with the fried onion. Serve with hot tomato sauce. Poussins a la Hambourg. Very young chickens (baby or chic-chickens) stuffed with chicken quenelle meat and braised ; garnished with Parisian potatoes, trufties, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace sauce, Poussins a la Portugaise. Young chickens par-fried and stewed in brown sauce flavoured with sherry, with sliced tomatoes, braised, and cubes of cucumber. Poussins a la Turenne. Young chickens cut up, browned in butter and stewed in an earthenware stew-pot in the oven, with brown sauce, noisette potatoes, slices of tomatoes, and truffles. Poussins bardes, Hambourgeoise [Chic-Chickcns, Hamburg Style). Draw and truss 4 small chic-chickens, known as poussins, cover the breast of each with a thin slice of larding bacon, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place them in a saute- or roasting-pan, pre- viously lined with slices of streaky bacon, a sliced onion, and bay- leaf. Spread over each bird a little butter, brown quickly in a hot oven, then untruss the birds and transfer them to a fireproof casserole containing 2 ounces of fresh butter, a gill of chicken stock, and the strained juice of a lemon. Cover, and finish cooking the birds in the oven, basting frequently. Dress the birds on an oblong dish, with the li jiior, previously enriched with -t gill of gravy, and reduced, skimmed, and seasoned, round the dish, and garnish the sides with fried potato ribbons and cress or cresses, Poussins Pooler a la Madrid, 3-4 chic-chickens (poussins), 12 very small button onions (pecleil), 2 oz. butter, 12 small veal quenelles, 4 oz. lean bacon (cut in dice), seasoning, 8 mushroom-heads, i carrot (scraped), i small onion, 1 bay-leaf, 2 stripi lemon-rind, l pimiento, i gill tomato sauce, i gill demi-glace, -J- glas; marsala. Truss the chic-chickens as for braising, cut the carrot in quarters, peel the onion, and cut it in half, stick a clove in one half. Melt the butter in a fireproof earthenware pot. Fry the button onionsTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 490 in this, and take them out, put in the carrot and cut onion, bay-leaf, and lemon-rind, and place in the chickens, let them take colour over a brisk hre, and set it in the oven for hfteen minutes. Take up, pour off the fat, onion, etc., and place in the chickens again with the fried button onions, the bacon cut in cubes, and fried, the mush- room-heads, and the veal quenelles pre- viously poached in stock and drained, also FIREPROOF POT (CASSEROLE), pimieiito cut liito cubcs. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatics, and moisten with the sauces mentioned, also the wine. Cover the pan, and let its contents cook in the oven for twenty to thirty minutes. To serve, transfer the whole into an oblong hreproof terrine, which should be placed in the oven for at least ten minutes before sending to table. If liked, the little birds may be cut in halves when at the time of dishing up, half a bird being considered enough for each person. Ailerons de Volaille a la Creole [Chicken Breasts and Wings, Creole Style). 2 Surrey fowls or chickens, 6 oz. rice, i pint rich stock, 2 oz. butter, 3 truffles (small), 6 artichoke bottoms (small), ij pint cooked vegetable macedoine, i gill sauce aigre-douce, aromatic seasoning, salt and pepper. Carefully remove the breasts of the fowls or chickens, leaving the bones on them, but strip off the skin. Trim into three or four nice portions, toss them in butter in a saute-pan until nicely browned, then cover with buttered paper, and braise for ten or hfteen minutes. Season with aromatics and salt, pour off the fat, and add the sauce. Blanch and cook the rice in the stock, add the butter left over from cooking the chickens, season to taste, and let reduce in the oven till almost dry. Mix with the truffles, previously chopped fmely. Fill a buttered border-mould with the cooked rice, shake it well down, and unmould on a hot dish. Have ready heated the artichoke bottoms and maccMoine of vegetables, hll the former with the latter, and place them neatly round the top of the border of rice. Dress the chicken breasts in the centre of the dish, pour over a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat to be handed round separately. Place the dish in a hot oven for a few minutes to get well heated, and send to table. Turban de Filets de Volaille [Turban of Chicken Fillets). Remove the breasts of two fowls, take off the skins and lard with strips of larding bacon. Braise them on a mirepoix of vege- tables and bacon, and linish in demi-glace sauce. Prepare a border of cooked rice and white mushrooms (champignons), chopped hnely and well seasoned. Dress the cooked fillets on this, mask the fillets with a rich supreme sauce, pour the demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and garnish with small lleurons of puff-paste.ENTRAbS of poultry, etc. (HOT DISHES) 49 Ballotine de Volaille a la Cardinal {Chicken Ballotinc). 1 fat chicken or pullet, i terrine of foie-gras j;ate (size 9 or 8), 4 slices of streaky bacon, I lb. cooked ham, 4 truffles, l glass of white wine, i bouquet garni, a mirepoix, | lb. of veal forcemeat (p. 177), i egg, 1 gill of rich veal broth (or chicken broth made from chicken bones), aromatic seasoning. Bone the chicken, but do not remove the leg bones. Line the body with slices of bacon, spread with a layer of forcemeat, pre- viously mixed with a yolk of egg, interspersing thick slices of truffles and cooked ham with a slice of foie-gras between them. Sprinkle with aromatic seasoning, and cover with the remainder of force- meat. Secure the ends, fold tightly, sew with string, and wrap them in a piece of buttered paper. Fry the prepared mirepoix in deep saute-pan, put in the chicken, add the bouquet garni, wine, and stock or broth. Cook in the oven for about half an hour or more, according to the size of the chicken. Baste well from time to time. When done take out the chicken, remove the paper and string, cut up in slices, or dress it whole on a hot dish, and serve with cardinal sauce. Filets de Poulet a la Helder {Chicken Fillets, Helder Style). 2 plump spring chickens, i pint preserved cepes or morilles, 12 small potatoes, 1 gill vcloutee sauce, i tablespoonful meat glaze or Lenico. I tablespoonful brandy, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour, chicken stock, seasoning, croutons of fried bread. Remove carefully the fillets of the two chickens, skin them, and place them on a buttered saute-pan, pour over a tablespoonful of liqueur brandy, and season to taste with salt and pepjfer. Moisten with a little chicken stock, cover with a buttered paper, aud poach in the oven for hfteen minutes. Take up the fillets and keep hot, pour off the liquor in the saute-pan, and melt in it the remainder of the butter. To this add the flour, cook a little, and stir in -J- gill chicken stock, the liquor, and the meat glaze or Lemco. Cook for ten minutes, and strain. Return to the saute-pan and place in the chicken fillets, cook them gently for another fifteen minutes. Have ready some heart shajies of fried bread croutons, dress the fillets on these in the form of a border on a round entree dish. Heat up the cepes or morilles in the veloutee sauce, and put this ragout in the centre. Sauce over the whole carefully and send to table hot. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Richelieu, I chicken, i tin foie-gras (about 6 oz.), 4 oz. fat pork, aromatic spice, pcp])cr and salt, pig’s caul, 3 or 4 fresh mushrooms, 4 oz. butter, i trufilc, bread- crumbs, I egg. demi-glace sauce, morilles. Remove the hllets of chicken, flatten them, and cut out about ten nice rounds, the size of a four-shilling piece. Pound in a mortar about six ounces of chicken meat free from skin and gristle, cut up the pork and foie-gras, pound each separately, then mix well. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Chop and broil the mushrooms slightly in butter. Cut the caul into pieces large enough to envelop a cutlet, put each piece of caul over the inner surface of a cutlet-shaped mould (you will need eight or ten of these), spread with farce, put a chicken492 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK fillet on top of this, then a few choj)ped and broiled mushrooms, a thin slice of truftfe, and finish up with another layer of farce. Fold in the pig’s caul, press the whole lightly into the moulds, so as to obtain correct cutlet shapes. Beat up an egg, add to it an ounce of liquid butter, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly, coat the cutlets with this, then dip in fresh bread- crumbs. Endeavour to keep the cutlets in neat shapes while crumbing. Fry them in hot butter a nice colour, dish up on a narrow border of mashed potatoes, fill up the centre with broiled morilles or fresh mushrooms, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Pains de Volaille a la Creole [Chicken and Liver Sotifflis). 10 to 12 oz. raw chicken, freed from skin and bone, 2 oz. calves' liver, 4 oz. foie-gras, i small bouquet garni, 2 shallots, i gill white stock, i oz. Diitter, I oz. ground rice, 3 eggs, | gill milk, gill cream, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice ; sauce ftalienne. Cut the chicken into small pieces, slice the liver finely, peel and chop finely the shallots, and fry the latter for a few seconds in the butter. Add the chicken and liver, fry together with the bouquet over a brisk fire till well blended, then remove the bouquet, pound the chicken and liver in a mortar, and rub through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a stewpan, season to taste, add the ground rice, previously mixed till smooth with the milk, and the stock, stir and cook slowly for ten minutes. Let cool a little, then add the cream and the yolks of eggs, together with the whisked white of one egg. Mix the foie-gras, cut into cubes, with the above, and fill up some well-buttered timbale or dariole moulds. Steam for about thirty-five minutes. Dish up, and serve with Italienne sauce. Cuisses de Volaille en Papillotes aux Epinards. 4 to 6 raw chicken legs, 6 slices fat bacon, 1 pint stock, i ^:ill white wine, I bay-leaf, thyme, carrot, -1- onion, i gill well-reduced Espagnole sauce, salt, pepper, 6 heart-shaped slices of cooked ham, spinach juiree. Take out the bones from the legs, leaving a portion of the drum- stick, season with pepper and salt. Line a saute-pan with small pieces of bacon, add the bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, the carrot and onion sliced, lay in this the chicken legs, moisten with the wine and stock, and cook in a brisk oven till tender. Cut someENTRIES OF POULTRY. ETC. {HOT DLSHES). 40,S slices of bacon into heart shapes, and fry slightly. Press the cooked chicken legs a little, trim, and pnt each on to a jnece cjf buttered paper (strong white paper should be used), previously cut out into heart shape. Lay a slice of bacon on the chicken, spread over a layer of spinach puree, and pnt a slice of ham on top, wrap the buttered paper well round each leg thus prepared, twist it on the ends so as to well fasten it. Place in a buttered saute-pan and bake for about lifteen minutes. Strain the liquor left from the chicken, skim off the fat, pnt the Espagnole sauce with this, and cook a few minutes. Season if necessary, and serve separately. Note.—The paper used for papillotes should be cut large enough to completely enclose the legs. They are sent to table in the papers. A cutlet frill may be put on each bone. Cuisses de Volaille a la Florentine {Chicken Legs). Chicken legs boned and partially fried in butter, when cold immersed in supreme sauce, then egged, crumbed in fresh bread- crumbs and grated parmesan cheese, and fried in darihed butter. Served with tomato sauce. Filets de Volaille a la Cecile {Chicken Fillets, Cecil Style). I spring chicken, i 02. butter, J- onion, i bay-leaf, 6 oz. foie-gras, 2 oz. beef-marrow, i slice bacon, 2 yolks of egg, 6 oz. cooked asparagus points, I tablespoonful white sauce, potato puree, 2 slices cooked ox-tongue, I truffle, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce. Remove the fillets from the chicken, take off the skin, lard each fillet with small strips of tongue and truffle, place them in a buttered saute-pan lined with a slice of bacon, slices of onion, and bay-leaf, put a few bits of butter on top, moisten with a little white stock. Season with pepper and salt, and cover with buttered paper. Cook slowly for about twenty minutes, basting frequently, and when done take up, and glaze the top with liquid meat glaze. In the meantime, pound the foie-gras, asparagus points, and beef-marrow (previously blanched) in a mortar till smooth, add one yolk of egg, the sarree and seasoning, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Arrange a neat border of mashed potatoes on a well-bnttered silver dish by means of a forcing-bag with a rose tube, brush over lightly with yolk of egg. Pnt the prepared farce in the centre of the dish, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Arrange the cooked fillets neatly on top of the farce, glaze, and serve very hot with a boat of demi-glace sauce. Pheasant or pigeon fillets may be prepared in the same manner. Kari de Volaille a la Madras {Curried Chicken). I chicken, 2 oz. butter, i small onion, i dessertspoonful IMadras currv- powder, i tablespoonful Empress mulligatawny paste, 3 cloves, i small piece cinnamon, i gill demi-glace, J gill tomato pulp or puree, i dessert- spoonful freshly grated or else desiccated cocoanut, the juice of half a lemon, salt, boiled rice. Cut the chicken into neat joints, peel and chop finely the onion. Brown the chicken lightly in hot butter in a stew-pan, fry the onion in the same butter, add the curry-powder and fry a little, stirring494 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. all the time. Return the chicken to the pan, add the cocoanut, mulligatawny paste, cloves, and cinnamon, and mix thoroughly. Moisten with the sance and puree and abont half a gill of water or stock, boil up, and skim. Cover the pan and let simmer very gently for about forty minutes. About ten minutes before serving add the lemon-juice, and salt to taste. When done dish up neatly in the centre of a border of plain boiled rice, or serve the rice sepa- rately. Although the word “ curry ” is given as “ kari,” which is the French translation for “ curry,” the foregoing recipe is a genuine Indian dish, as prepared in India. Ragout de Volaille Toulousienne {Chicken and Lambs’ Bread Stew). I small chicken, 2 or 3 lambs’ sweetbreads, i pint veloutee or allemande sauce, 10 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, 6 cocks’ combs, i small cucumber and asparagus points, h oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mashed potatoes for border. Truss the chicken for boiling, and cook in white stock or salted water, well flavoured with vegetables, for about three-quarters of an hour, take up, let cool, and cut up into neat joints (use the carcase along with the sauce to improve its flavour). Wash, blanch, cool, mid trim the sweet- breads, cut them into convenient slices, and put in a deep saute-pan or stewpan, along with the pieces of chicken. Strain the sauce, previously heated and flavoured with the carcase, over this, toss the whole together until it is hot. Add the mushrooms and truffles, cut into slices, and the cocks’ combs ; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, shake well, keep covered, and simmer for about twenty minutes. Prepare a neat border of mashed potatoes, well seasoned, and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks. Dress on a well-buttered dish, decorate to fancy, brush over with egg, and bake in the oven a golden colour. Dish up the ragout of chicken, etc., in the centre, sauce over care- fully, garnish with pea-shapes of cucumber and asparagus points, previously cooked and seasoned, and heated up in a little butter. Supreme de Volaille a la Helene {Supreme of Chicken). Remove the breasts from two flne chickens, skin the flllets and lard them, place them in a saute-pan with butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for fifteen minutes iu a moderate oven. Remove the flllets and put into the saute-pan half a gill of well-ENl'RIiES or POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 495 reduced veloutee sauce, i tablespoonful of chicken essence, and a tablespoonful of concentrated tomato puree. Iloil up, skim, reduce a little, add a little lemon-juice and other seasoning, salt and pepper if needed. Pass through a tammy, and pour over the fillets. Keep them hot. Have ready a crouton of fried bread fixed on to an oval dish, make a julienne of artichoke bottoms, truffle, and champignons, heat these in a little stock. Dress the fillet on the dish, sprinkle over the top the prepared julienne, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. Serve hot. Souffle de Volaille {Chicken Souffle). Proceed in exactly the same manner as indicated in recipie for “ Veal Souffle,” using the same quantity of chicken instead of veal, or if desired the weight can be made up with a small quantity of veal. The carcase and trimmings of the chicken should be used to make the white sauce (bechamel or supreme). Souffles de Volaille en Caisses {Chicken Souffles in Cases). 6 oz. raw chicken (fillet), 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of eggs, i gill cream, i tniflle. 2 preserved mushrooms, V oz. butter, salt and pepper. • Free the meat from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar until smooth, add by degrees the yolks of four eggs and the cream, season to taste, and rub it through a fine sieve. Chop the truffle and mushrooms rather finely, and add to the farce. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix it carefully with the above. Have six to eight china or paper souffle cases well buttered. Divide the mixture in eqifal parts into the cases, so that they are about three-parts full. Put them on a baking-sheet or saute-pan and bake in a fairly hot oven for about eighteen minutes. Arrange the cases on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve hot. This dish can also be made with any other poultry, with game, rabbit or veal. A boat of hot bechamel sauce is often served as an accompaniment with this dish. Mousseline de Volaille {Lifflit Chicken Souffle). Pound in a mortar i lb. of raw chicken, free from bone, skin, and sinews ; when smooth add a little cream and two yolks of eggs, mix well and rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Lastly add the stiffly whisked whites of three eggs, mix carefully and fill into a well-buttered souffle tin. Poach—i.c. place the tin in a saute- or stew-pan containing a little boiling water, and cook them in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Unmould and serve with supreme or mousseline sauce. Souffle de Volaille {made with Cooked Chicken). Pound in a mortar i lb. of cooked—i.e. boiled—chicken (chiefly breast and wing portions), add to it a quarter of a pint of cold be- chamel sauce, and rub through a fine sieve. Heat this up iu a stew- pan with two ounces of butter, add two yolks of eggs and let cool a little, then stir in the whisked whites of three eggs. Fill into a buttered souffle tin, and poach or steam in a moderate oven for496 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. about thirty minutes. Uumould on to a hot dish, and sauce over with supreme or rich hechamei sauce. Souffle de Volaille a la Perigord. Prepare a chicken souffle from either of the preceding recipes, and mix with two finely chopped truffles. Slice also two more truffles, and add to the souffle mixture. Proceed to poach or steam same in a souffle tin as directed in preceding recipe ; when done nnmould, and serve with a rich demi-glace or Maclere sauce. Attriotes de Volaille a la Vaudoise. 10 slices of cooked ox-tongue, V cooked fowl, 8 mushrooms, 2 truffles, 1 glass sherry wine, 11). raw chicken or game, 3 oz. fresh pork, 2 shallots, I whole and two yolks of eggs, parsley, I lemon, gill cream, meat glaze, r gill tomato sauce, i gill alkmande sauce, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, aromatic seasoning, pig’s caul. Mashed potatoes for border. Cut the tongue slices in even-sized rounds or ovals, put the trimmings in a mortar, add the raw' chicken or game, freed from skin ancl bone, and pound till smooth. Cut the pork into slices, and pound likewise, mix both together, add a finely-chopped .shallot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and work in the cream and yolks of eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Pass through a fine sieve, ancl put in a basin. Remove the skin and bones from the cooked chicken, cut it into small dice, chop the mushrooms and truffles coarsely, and mix with the forcemeat. Cover the round slices of tongue completely with this mixture, wrap each piece separately in pig’s caul, and dip them in beaten white of egg. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan, place in the attriotes, fry over the fire for a few minutes, ancl finish cooking in the oven for another ten to fifteen minutes. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes, ornament the sides prettily with a forcing-bag and a fancy pipe or tube. Brush over with yolk of egg, and brown in the oven. Dress the attriotes on the border, brush over with meat glaze, and serve the following sauce in the centre and round the dish. Chop the remaining shallot finely, fry in the pan in which the attriotes were cooked, pour oft' the fat, moisten with the tomato and allemande sauce and the sherry, reduce a little, add a tea- spoonful of meat glaze and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, season to taste, strain, and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The sauce is then ready for serving. Creme de Volaille a I’Argenteuil {Chicken Cream with Asparagus). 1 small fowl, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, \ gill cream, 25 heads of green asparagus, a handful of spinach, salt, pepper, nutmeg, I- oz. of buffer, supreme sauce. Bone the fowl, remove the skin and sinews, cut the meat into small shreds, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Return to the mortar, add the panade, the yolk of egg, and the cream, mix thoroughly, and season to taste. Clean the asparagus and spinach, cook them separately in salted water, rub the spinach through a sieve, cut off the soft portions of the asparagus and pass through a sieve, and mix both purees together. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix with the forcemeat. Divide theENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 497 vegetable puree into two lots, add a yolk of egg and some forcemeat to one and rather more forcemeat to the other, so as to give botli two different shades of green, resembling asparagus tops. Butter thoroughly an asparagus mould, fill up with the darker green puree, then the lighter green, and lastly the white forcemeat. Place the mould in a stew-pan containing some hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for about one hour or more, \^'hen done, turn out on a hot dish. Pour some hot supreme sauce round the base (jf the dish, and serve. The same dish may be served cold, omitting the supreme sauce, and adding a garniture of aspic jelly. Pillaff de Volaille (Chicken Pill an). I chicken or small fowl, i carrot, 6 black peppercorns, i piece green ginger (whole), I blade of mace, 3 oz. butter, i to 2 lb. scrag end of mutton, 3 small onions, i clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, salt, 2 cloves, 4 to 6 oz. Irest rice (Patna), i large tablespoonful curry or mulligatawny paste. Free the fowl from bone and skin, and cut into small conveniently- sized pieces. Put the carcase and bones in a stew-pan with the mutton, previously cut in pieces, add water and soup vegetables to make a stock, which should be allowed to boil for at least two and a half hours. Onion, garlic, green ginger, bay-leaves, and pepper- corns should be added, and the stock should by the time it is finished and strained produce about three pints of broth. Fry the pieces of chicken in butter to a nice pale brown. Pour off the butter, and put into a deep stew-pan, add the remainder of fresh butter, stir in the rice, allow to fry for several minutes over a moderate fire, then add the stock, stir over the hre until it begins to boil, and allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove. Mince finely one small onion, fry in butter a golden colour, add the curry-paste and mace, 'also a little good stock, mix well, add the chicken pieces, and mix the whole with the rice. Stir the rice, etc., occa- sionally, to prevent burning. Season with salt and pepper at the last. Just before dishing up fry a thinly-sliced onion in butter until nicely browned. Dress the pillau in a pile on a hot dish, strew over with thin strips of fried onion, and send to table. Poulet a I’Arlequin.—Breast and wings of chicken skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and served with tinanciere ragout. — saute a la Bayonnaise,—Chicken cut into joints and fried in butter, then stewed in brown sauce with coarsely minced ham, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes. Dressed in the centre of a border of stewed rice. — saute a la Bearnaise.—Saute of chicken finished in a veloutee sauce with the addition of meat glaze, white wine, chojiped parsley, and tarragon-leaves, thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. — a la Beaulieu.—Chicken prepared like “ en Cocotte,” to which a garniture of marble-shaped fried potatoes and dice shapes of artichoke bottoms is added.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 498 Poulet a la Bourgeoise.—Par-fried chicken (jointed), and stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms and red wine ; garnished with green peas and young carrots. — a la Cardinal.—Boiled chicken, breast-bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and dished up with a garniture .of small fancy c]uenelles and slices of truffles. Served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, anchovy essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. — a la Careme.—Breast and wings flattened and cut into round shapes, braised and pressed, finished in Madere sauce, and dressed on border of potato puree (baked) ; centre filled with julienne of truffle, mushroom, and tongue ; bearnaise sauce on each medallion, and Madere sauce round base of dish. — a la Chanut.—Saute of chicken (tossed in butter with garlic and shallot flavouring), white wine, demi-glace, and sliced tomatoes, dressed on croutons of bread; garnished with sauted mushrooms, new potatoes (fried), and green peas, liquor reduced and strained over. — a la Chivry.—Braised chicken, dished up with rings of Spanish onions, filled with a mixture of chives, boiled onions, and blanched tarragon leaves, all finely chopped, sauced over with a savoury herb sauce prepared with the chicken stock. — en Cocotte or en Casserole.—Small fat chicken braised whole in a fire- proof casserole ; garnished with slices of ham, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms ; demi-glace sauce. — en Compote.—Par-fried chicken, stewed in rich brown sauce, with mushrooms, slices of fried bacon, and braised button onions. — frit a la Dauphine.—Broiled chicken, coated with veloutee sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with small potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — a la Demidoff.—Chicken sauted, stewed in brown sauce diluted with sherry ; dressed in a border of cooked rice. — a la Diable.—Spring chicken split open at the back, highly seasoned with devilled butter, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled ; spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Cold fowl is treated in the same manner. — frit a la Duchesse.—Boned chicken, par-cooked, cut into small portions and flattened, steeped in oil and lemon-juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with veloutee sauce, blended with cream and minced ham. — frit it la Dumontier.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, steeped in lemon-juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and finely chopped onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with duchesse sauce, prepared with veloutee sauce, cream, and minced ham. — a la Duse.—Chicken cut into joints, fried in oil, and stewed in tomato sauce with artichoke bottoms cut in dice, dressed in border of risotto (stewed savoury rice), sprinkled over with chopped white piemont triTffle. — a I’Ecarlate.—Braised fowl, garnished with heart-shaped slices of cooked ox-tongue ; served with demi-glace or veloutee sauce.ENTRKES OF POUETRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 499 Poulet bouilli a I’Estragon. - Boiled fowl, served with white sauce, Itavoured with tarragon leaves. — braise a I’Estragon.—Larded chicken, stuffed, and braised ; served with a rich brown sauce flavoured with tarragon leaves. — saute a la Fermiere.—Saute of chicken, sauce enriched with cream and flavoured with lemon-juice. Dished up in pyramidal form, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Garnished with groups of neatl}^-cut spring vegetables. — braises aux Fines Herbes.— Braised chickens, served with a rich brown sauce, seasoned with finely-chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, garden cress, and tiavourecl with white wine. — saute a la Florentine.—Saute of chicken, tiavourecl with chopped shallots and green pepjier, sauce diluted with tomato puree and white wine, and then well reduced. — a la Generale.—Braised fowl, garnished with groups of green peas and asparagus points ; served with Madere sauce. — a la Godard.—Neatly shaped pieces of chicken, skinned, larded with trutties and bacon, first cooked in butter, and afterwards stewed in a rich white sauce with chopped mushrooms. Garnished with whole truffles, heads of mushrooms, and Fleurons (small half- moon shapes of puff-paste baked). — a la Heuloise.—Chicken sauted and stewed in veloutee sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. — aux Huitres.—Par-fried chicken stewed in white sauce containing bearded oysters. — a rindienne.—Chicken braised white, stewed in curry sauce with Indian pickles or piccalilli, cut in fine strips ; served with boiled rice. — a la Inkermann.—Chicken sauted and stewed in tomato sauce, flavoured with curry and meat glaze; garnished with, fried eggs and small slices of broiled ham. — a ritalienne.—Par-fried chicken (jointed), stewed with brown sance, flavoured wifh tomato, dished in border of rice ; seasoned wifh fomato puree and parmesan cheese. — a r I voire.—Boiled fowl breast covered with slices of lemon and barded ; served with siijireme sauce. — frit a la Juive.—Jointed chicken (boned), seasoned, egged, crumbed,. and fried slowly in clarified buffer ; served with tomato sauce. — a la Lathuile.—Jointed chicken, tossed in butter, mixed with dice shapes of par-fried potatoes and slices of artichoke bottoms, and finished m demi-glace sauce ; garnished with groups of braised bufton onions and fried parsley. — a la Livournaise.—Split chicken, flattened, steeped in a mixture of lemon-juice and sweet oil, flavoured with bav-leaf, parsley roots, and onions, drained, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled slowly in butter. Served with livournaise sauce, composed of salad oil, anchovy paste, egg-yolks, tarragon vinegar, and seasoning, all well mixed and served cold. — a la Lyonnaise.—Broiled chicken, jointed, and stewed in tomato and Espagnole sauce, reduced with white wine, and minced onions fried in butter.500 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Poulet marine frit.—Boiled chicken, cut into pieces, steeped in lemon- juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. — a la Mascotte.—Jointed, tossed in butter, and stewed in Madere sauce, with slices of truffles ; garnished with artichoke bottoms and noisette potatoes. — a la Montmorency.—Braised chicken stuffed with a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles, and mushrooms, breast larded and glazed, dished up with a garniture of slices of sweetbread and mushroom-heads. Served with sauce Madere. — a la Mousquetalre.—Chicken cut in joints and sauted in butter and chopped ham, drained and cooked in a tomato sauce, flavoured with claret, meat glaze, and lemon-juice. Garniture : cubes of foie- gras, fleurons, cocks’ combs, cepes, and truffles. — frit a I’Orly.—Par-boiled fowl, cut into neat pieces, and marinaded ; dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter ; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — a la Paschallne.—Braised fowl, sprinkled with chopped mushrooms, sauced over with a rich veloutee sauce, and garnished with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with veal forcemeat, and fried. — a la Paysanne.—Chicken, jointed, par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with olive-shaped carrots, turnips, and celery root. — a la Polenta.—Braised fowl (white), finished in white wine and tomato sauce, garnished with small timbales of maize or polenta. — a la Pondlchery.—Sauted chicken, stewed in brown sauce, mixed with apple puree, the juice and rind of a mandarin orange finely chopped ; served in a border of boiled rice. — a la Prlntanlere.—Chicken, cut up, par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with groups of green peas, small cut carrots, and French beans. — au Rlz gratlne.—Chicken (jointed) par-fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce, with dice shapes of bacon and chopped onions, dressed on a bed of rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in the oven. a la Romalne.—Braised fowl, finished in tomato sauce reduced with marsala ; garnished with sliced truffles, braised lettuce, and mac- aroni timbales. a la St. Cloud.—Braised white or boiled fowl ; breast larded with truffles and ox-tongue and barded ; served with supreme sauce mixed with finely chopped truffles. a la St. George.—Chicken, cut up, fried in oil, and stewed in veloutee sauce, with sliced mushrooms ; surface glazed with meat extract. a la Stanley.—A delicate fricassee of chicken, with rich supreme sauce ; garnished with fine shreds of truffle and ham or tongue. frit a la Tartare.—Boiled fowl, when cold, cut into joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce. — a la Trianon.—Barded and roasted whole, in fireproof casserole, finished with demi-glace sauce reduced with Chablis ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled alternately with mushroom heads and green peas.ENTRl^ES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). 501 Poulet frit a la Vaudoise.—Boiled chicken jointed, immersed when cold in veloutee sauce, then egged, crumbed, and fried. Dished up and garnished with groups of spring vegetables neatly shaj-ied. Served with bechamel sauce. — frit a la Versailles.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and llattened, marinaded in savoury herb saumure or pickling, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with tomato sauce. — a la Vert-Pre.—Boiled fowl served with veloutee or supreme sauce, containing chopped chervil and tarragon, and spinach greening. — frit a la Viennoise.—Boned fowl, cut into small portions and llattened, marinaded, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la Vigo.—Braised chicken, hnished in Madeira wine sauce, dished u]i and garnished with small ripe tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. Cotelettes de Poulet a la Chinoise.—Pounded chicken meat free from skin and sinews, seasoned with salt, ]iepper, curry powder, and nutmeg, rubbed through a sieve and mixed with breadcrumbs and egg- white, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarihed butter ; served with tartare sauce. Cuisses a la Clementine.—Legs of chicken fried in butter, immersed in supreme sauce, egged, crumbed in breadcrumbs and grated parme- san cheese, fried in deep fat ; tomato sauce. Epigrammes de Poulets aux Truffes.—Boned and skinned chicken, flat- tened and shaped like collops, fillets or cutlets, larded with truffles, and cooked in butter. Served with truffle sauce. Escalopes de Poulet a I'Anglaise.—Minced chicken (cold roast or boiled), stewed in bechamel sauce, filled into scallop shells, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. Filets de Poulet a I'lmperiale.—Larded breasts and wings of fowl, braised, and served with game quenelles and truffles. Fricassee de Poulet a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed chicken (fillets larded and garnished with fancifully cut slices of truffles, braised, and glazed), dished up with a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs. This dish is garnished with small fried chicken croquettes. — a la Havelock.— Fricasseed chicken in a white sauce thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter, fillets larded, braised, and glazed, and decorated with rings of ox-tongue. Dished up and garnished with groups of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — a la Reine.—Fricasseed chicken, dished up in a pyramidal form, gar- nished with chicken forcemeat quenelles, mushroom-heads, sliced truffles, and fried sippets of bread brushed over with meat glaze. — a la Saint-Lambert.—Fricasseed chicken dished up in a pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. Supreme de Poulet Jeanette.—Braised chicken fillets (white) ; when cold, coated with white chaud-froid sauce and aspic ; decorated with tarragon leaves.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 502 Timbales de Poulet a la Meridionale.—Chicken timbales, prepared with finely minced chicken meat, demi-glace sauce, and panade, flavoured with a little Worcester sauce. Filled in well-buttered timbale moulds with some well-reduced tomato puree in the centre. Steamed in the oven, and served with Madeira wine sauce. Blanquette de Volaille en Demi-Deuil.—Fricasseed chicken, garnished with shredded truffles and mushrooms. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Montpensier.—Chicken fillets chopped finely, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Served with tomato sauce. Cuisses de Volaille a la Wellington.—Chicken legs, fried in oil, drained, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with chutney. Epigrammes de Volaille a la Villeroi.—Fillets of chicken seasoned and slightly broiled; immersed in veloutee sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried served with tomato sauce. Filets de Volaille a la Marcelle.—Chicken fillets, crumbed and broiled in butter, dressed round a shape of Anna potatoes ; sauce Godard, flavoured with paprika. — a la Supreme.—Pounded chicken fillets made into a light farce, filled into quenelle moulds, with cooked chicken and sweetbread, salpicon in the centre, and steamed in the oven ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Quenelles de Volaille a I’ltalienne.—Chicken forcemeat quenelles, with chopped preserved mushrooms in centre of each, steamed in the oven. Served with a rich brown sauce, containing truffles, slices of mushrooms, chopped parsley, and chopped cooked ham. Souffle de Volaille a la Reine.—Light chicken forcemeat enriched witli cream, filled in moulds, and steamed ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Supreme de Volaille a la Royale.—Stewed chicken fillets dished up in the centre of a vegetable border, garnished with fancifully cut slices of ox-tongue, truffles, and macedoine of vegetables. Served with supreme sauce. Poussins a la Giscour.—Braised poussins (chic-chickens). This form of braising is known as “ poeler.” Sauce demi-glace, flavoured with port wine, garnished with artichoke bottoms and cepes previously fried in oil. DINDE—TURKEY ; DINDONNEAU-YOUNG TURKEY. Dinde a la Florentine [Turkey, Florentine Style). Truss a small young turkey the same as for boiling, cover the breast with thin slices of bacon or fat ham, upon this place 2-3 thin slices of lemon and a small bay-leaf. Wrap it up carefully in a sheet of buttered paper, and place the bird breast upwards in a stew-pan large and deep enough to hold it well, and previously lined with slices of bacon, carrot, onion, celery, and a little savoury herbs. Add an ounce of butter, a pint of well-seasoned stock, and a glass of Chablis or Italian white wine. Bring it to the boil over the fire, then cover the pan and place it in a hot oven and cookENTRl^ES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES). the bird till tender, allowing about twenty minutes to each pound. Baste the bird frecpiently. When done, take up the turkey, remove the paper, and strain the liquor into another pan, add T pint of tomato sauce, boil up, and skim, then put the turkey into the sauce, and re-heat it. To serve as an entree cut the bird into the reejuired number of portions, dish up neatly, and pour over the hot sauce. Dinde en Blanquette.—Turkey stewed in white sauce, with sliced preserved mushrooms (champignons). — en Brioche.—Fricasseed turkey, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. — bouillie au Cel6ri.—Boiled turkey, with a white sauce flavoured with celery, and garnished with braised celery. — a la Chipolata.—Roast turkey larded and stuffed with sausage meat and veal forcemeat, dished uji with a ragout of small rounds of sausages, small squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, and sliced truffles finished in sauce Maderc. Garnished with a border of small forcemeat quenelles. — grillee a la Diable.—Cold roast turkey, cut into neat joints, covered with beurre diable (devilled butter). Grilled over a slow fire, served with a piquante or other sauce. A little curry paste or curry powder should also be used for flavouring this sauce. — a la Godard.—Braised turkey (breast larded), stuffed with veal force- meat mixed with sliced sweetbread and mushrooms. Dished up and garnished with slices of truffles, mushroom-heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives, and small chicken quenelles. Served with sauce Madere. — a la Provengale.—Roast turkey stuffed with finely chopped boiled onions, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sliced truffles, and seasoning, served with tomato sauce. — a la Reyniere.—Roast turkey dished up, surrounded with small fried sausages and large chestnuts, cooked whole in chicken broth. Served with rich brown sauce, in which the liver, previously braised in turkey fat, and chopped finely, has been incorporated. — a la St. James.—Turkey stuffed with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, and roasted ; servecl with brown sauce. Small shapes of cranberry jelly are served separately. — frite a la Tomate.—Cold turkey cut into pieces and pared, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat ; served with tomato sauce. — a la Toulouse.—Boiled turkey cut into joints, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushroom, sliced cooked sweetbread, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs and forcemeat quenelles, heated in allemande or veloutee sauce. — a la Yorkshire.—Boned turkey stuffed with forcemeat and slices of cooked York ham, braised or broiled ; garnished with groups of vegetable macedoine, and served with ham sauce. Ailerons de Dinde braises aux Navets.—Braised boned wings of turkey (stuffed), served with mashed turnips. Ballotines de Dinde.—Boned and stuffed legs of turkey, braised, served with spinach, tomatoes or other suitable garnish.504 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Blanquette de Dinde aux Morilles.—Stewed turkey in white sauce with morels (a species of mushroom). Select a young turkey for this dish, truss it as for boiling, and cut it up when parboiled, then stew like fricassee. Cuisses de Dinde farcies a la Garibaldi.—Legs of turkey boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, ham and tongue, all finely minced. Braised slowly with little gravy. Served with a garniture of stewed macaroni, flavoured with tomato puree and small rice timbales. Filets de Dinde a la Cardinal.—Breasts of turkey stewed in white sauce, coloured with tomato puree, garnished with stewed crawfish-tails and lobster corals. Dindonneau saute aux Champignons.—Young turkey stewed in brown sauce with sliced mushrooms. — braise au Madere.—Braised young turkey finished in Madeira sauce. LAPIN—RABBIT, ETC. Gibelotte de Lapin {French Rabbit Stew). I or 2 Ostend rabbits (skinned), lb. fat bacon, bouquet garni, 2 oz. butter, I oz. flour, 18 button onions, i glass Chablis or Sauterne, of a pint of stock, salt, pepper. Wipe the rabbit with a damp cloth, and cut it into neat joints, not too large. Cut the bacon into slices, put the butter and bacon in a saute-pan, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Take out the bacon and put on a plate. Peel the onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter, and put with the bacon. Let the butter get thoroughly hot, and put in the rabbit, brown well on all sides, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle in the flour, and, when brown, moisten with the stock. Add the wine and bouquet garni, let it come slowly to a boil, skim, put in the onions, and let the whole simmer very gently for about an hour and a quarter, keeping the saute-pan well covered. About ten minutes before it is done, put in the liver, well washed, and cut into four. Before dishing up, take out the pieces of rabbit, onion, and liver, put into another saute-pan, and add the bacon. Take off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the rabbit. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the pieces of rabbit neatly on it, and put the garnish over and round it. Boil up the sauce, and pom- over the meat. Lapin frit a la Tartare [Fried Rabbit with Tartare Sauce). I young rabbit, i egg, 2 oz. butter, breadcrumbs, tartare sauce, seasoning, frying fat. Wash, wipe, and dry the rabbit, cut it into neat joints, and fry in butter in a saute-pan until three-parts done. Sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, put the pieces to cool, then trim. Dip them in beaten egg and crumb, when set, dip in oiled butter, and egg and crumb again. Place the pieces in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour in clarified fat or lard, drain, dish up on a hot dishENTRliES OF RABBIT {HOT DISHES). 505 with folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried or fresh parsley, and serve with tartare sance. This dish is sometimes garnished with strips of fried bacon. Lapin a la Catalane {Rabbit, Caialane Style). I rabbit, \ gill oil, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz, lean ham, i small onion (minced), 4 oz, rice, 3 ripe tomatoes, 2 pimientos, i small bouquet garni, i gill white wine, I pint rich seasoned stock, seasoning. Cut the rabbit into neat joints, trim and wipe them, and fry in hot oil over a quick fire, take up, and drain. Fry the ham and cut into dice in the butter in an earthenware casserole. To this add the onion, fry it to a golden colour, then add the rice and fry. Put in the tomatoes and pimientos cut into quarters, moisten with the wine and stock, and cook gently for half an hour. Take out half the rice, and arrange the pieces of rabbit in the remainder of rice in the casserole, adci the bouquet garni, and season to taste. Cover with the remainder of rice, place the lid on topy and cook in a moderately heated oven for about twenty-five minutes. The dish is then ready for table, and should be served in the casserole in which it is cooked. Souffles de Lapin [Small Souffles of Rabbit). 1 small rabbit, 2 oz, finely chopped ham or tongue, 2 yolks of eggs, ip gill of well-reduced bechamel .sauce, i oz. hutter, i lb. mashed potatoes, season- ing, pint of supreme sauce. Cnt the rabbit into small pieces, pound in a mortar till quite smooth, add the yolks of egg and the bechamel sauce, work well, and mix in the ham or tongue. Season with very little salt, a piinch of pepiper and a grate of nutmeg, and rub through a wire sieve. Butter about eighteen fancy moulds (dariole or small ham-shaped moulds), fill them with the prepared farce. Place the moulds in a saute- or stew-pan, containing boiling water to reach half-way up the moulds. Cover with buttered paper, boil rqy put in a moderate oven, and cook for about twenty-five minutes. Have ready on a dish a border of nicely seasoned mashed potatoes. Arrange the souffles neatly on top^ of the border. Sauce over with hot supreme sauce, and serve. The centre of the dish should be filled with either peas, French beans or flageolets, pire- viously heated in a little stock or gravy, flavoured with a small piece of butter, a pfinch of sifgar, p4ep:>per, and salt. Gibelotte de Lapin a la Bourguignonne [Stewed Rabbit). The same as directed for “ Gibelotte de Lapin,” using claret in place of Chablis. Cooked in brown sauce, with small braised button onions. Darioles de Lapin a la Reine [Davioles of Rabbit). p lb. rabbit meat freed from bone and skin, 2 oz. lean pork, i oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, -1- gill bechamel sance, a small tin or terrine of foie-gras pate, seasoning (salt, pepper, and a pinch of caj^enne), supreme sauce. Pound the meat (rabbit and pork) in a mortar until quite smooth, then add by degrees the panade, eggs, bechamel sauce, about three-5o6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. quarters of an ounce of butter, season to taste, and rub through a line wire sieve. Butter some dariole moulds, sprinkle the inside with hnely-chopped hard-boiled yolks of egg, and line with a layer of forcemeat. Put a piece of foie-gras in the centre of each, and hll up with forcemeat. Cover with buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about twenty minutes in a saute-pan with hot water to reach half-way up the moulds. To serve, turn out the moulds on to a hot round entree-dish with croustade border. Arrange the darioles neatly, and pour the supreme sauce over them. Cotelettes de Lapereau [Ciitlets of Wild Rabbit). Take four legs of large wild rabbit, cut each in two, remove the bones (reserve the knuckle-bones for further use), and flatten with a cutlet-bat. Prepare a forcemeat with 6 oz. of rabbit meat, one egg, 2 oz. of fat bacon, three tablespoonfuls of white sauce. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. When pounded pass through a sieve. Fry a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil leaves in a little fresh butter, and add to the farce. Spread the cut side of the rabbit legs with this farce, shape them neatly in the form of cutlets, season with a little salt and pepper, wrap each in a piece of pig’s caul, fry a little on each side in butter. When cold, insert small bones to imitate cutlet bones, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, fry in clarified butter or fat, drain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. Croquettes de Lapereau a la Maintenon. Minced cooked rabbit, prepared into a salpicon with chopped mushrooms, ham, egg-yolk, and bechamel sauce, then shaped into croquettes (cork or cutlet shapes), egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, clrained, and served with brown sauce reduced with sherry wine. Lapereau frit a la Tartare {Rabbit Fritters with Tartare Sauce). Wild rabbit boned, pickled in a marinade, drained, cut into neat joints, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot clarified butter or deep fat. Served with tartare sauce. ENTREE DISH WITH CROUSTADE BORDER, SHOWING HOW A PASTE BORDER, AFTER BEING BAKED, SHOULD BE FI.XED.507 CHAPTER XXIV. ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). (For Cold Kntrees, etc., see Chapter XX\’.) FAISAN-PHEASANT. Faisan braise aux Choux {Braised Pheasant with Cabbage). I plump pheasant, 3 to 4 slices tat bacon, lb. raw ham, a small cabbage or a savoy, a bouquet garni, 2 oz. butter, 2 pairs Frankfort sausages, about -J- pint stock, salt and pepper. Truss the pheasant as for boiling, line a braising-pan or ordinary stew-pan with the bacon, over this place a few bits of butter, allow it to get quite hot, then put in the pheasant, and let it fry over the hre until it is well coloured. Meanwhile trim, wash, and blanch the cabbage or savoy in slightly salted water, drain well, and divide into several small portions. Take up the pheasant, cut it into neat joints, pour off some of the fat in the stew-pan, arrange the bird and cabbage in layers in the pan, add the bouquet of herbs, season each layer with pepper and salt. Blanch the sausages, and place them, together with the ham, cut into slices, between the layers of pheasant and cabbage, add the stock, cover the pan, and braise gently for an hour or longer, according to the size of the bird. When done, remove the bouquet of herbs. Dress the whole smartly on a hot dish, cut the sausages into slices, and arrange in the shape of a border round the base of the dish. Pour a little gravy over and round the dish, and serve hot. Bordure de Faisan a la Chasseur {Border of Pheasant). ?, lb. raw pheasant, freed from bone, skin, and sinews, lb. panade, a couple of tablespoonfuls well-reduced bechamel or veloutee sauce and an equal quantity of double cream, i oz. fresh butter, 2 whole eggs, 12 preserved mushrooms, i large truffle, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, demi-glace or Madeira sauce. Pound the pheasant meat in a mortar until smooth, add the panade, work in the white sauce, eggs, butter, and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and rub the whole through a hne sieve. Garnish the bottom of a well-buttered border-mould with mitshroom-heads, into which a star of truffle has been inserted, each mushroom being neatly trimmed, stamped out, and a piece the size of a star of truffle is then placed in. Chop the trimmings of mushrooms and truffle finely, and mix this with the puree, then fill the border-mould. Place it in a sautGpan half-filled with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and cook for about forty minutes over the fire or in the oven. W’hen done, turn the mould on to a hot dish, pour some hot Madere or demi-glace sauce round the base and serve.508 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Faisan en Cocotte (Pheasant in Ter vine). Proceed to prepare and cook a pheasant the same as directed for “ Poulet en Casserole,” with a gar- niture of small braised button onions, mushroom (champignons) heads, and small olive shapes of truffles—the latter are often replaced by noisette potatoes (small bell-shaped potatoes, blanched and fried, or tossed in butter). Faisan en Robe de Chambre. I pheasant ready for trussing, i lb. lean pork, t lb. calf's liver, ^ lb. lean veal, ^ lb. larding bacon or ordinary fat bacon, i oz. butter, 2 shallots, I large or 2 small truffles, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue, 3 yolks of eggs (raw), seasoning, i lb. puff-paste. Bone the pheasant, cut up the pork, veal, and bacon hnely, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Cut the liver into thin slices, peel and chop the shallots, fry both lightly in a saute-pan with the butter, pound well, mix with the meat, and add the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, aromatic spice, and a little grated nutmeg, and rub through a fine sieve. Lay the boned pheasant out flat on a board, skin downwards, spread the prepared farce evenly over the bird, upon this put the tongue (cut into strips), and the truffles (cut into slices). Roll up carefully, tie up in a cloth as for a galantine, and cook for about forty-five minutes in the stockpot. When done take up, let cool, untie, and enclose the roll in puff- paste. Put it on a baking-sheet, mark the top of the paste artisti- cally, brush over with egg-wash, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Dish up and serve hot or cold. If the former, serve with a boat of gravy or demi-glace sauce. If served cold, garnish with plenty of aspic jelly. Terrine de Faisan a la Cossart [Braised Pheasants with Chestnuts). I plump pheasant, I lb. calf’s liver, i shallot, 4 oz. bacon, a bouquet of savoury herbs, i oz. butter, i yolk of egg, 2-3 tablespooiifuls of rich Espag- nole sauce, 4 slices of lean bacon, raw ham, i terrine or tin of foie-gras, I glass of white wine, pint of demi-glace sauce, 12 chestnuts, and seasoning. Bone the pheasant, slit the boned bird down the back, and place it cut side upwards on a board. Have ready a farce made by slicing the liver, and tossing it in a saute-pan with the butter and finely minced shallot. Add the bonquet garni, add also the bacon finely sliced, and fry with the liver, then moisten with a little stock and mushroom liquor. Pound whilst hot in a mortar, removing the herbs ; when smooth, add the sauce, and season to taste. Rub this through a fine sieve, and spread over the pheasant. Cut the foie-gras, freed from fat, into fairly thick slices, and place them on top of the farce, roll up the bird neatly, and tie up with string. Put it in a fireproof terrine or casserole, lined with fat bacon, spread a little butter over5oy ENTRflES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). the top, cover the pan, and cook in a fairly hot oven for about forty minutes, basting the bird occasionally. \\’hen done, take out the pheasant, and keep hot. Chop the carcase, and fry it in the remaining fat, adding a little butter if necessary, then pour off the fat, and moisten the carcase with a little good stock or gravy, and the wine. Boil for twenty minutes, then strain, and add the sauce demi-glace. Par-roast, peel, and boil the chest- nuts in stock, and hnish in glaze. Cut some raw ham into dice shapes, and fry in butter. Put the cooked pheasant with the prepared sauce in a convenient sized terrine, also the chestnuts and ham. Cook for another ten minutes or so, place the terrine on a dish, covered with a folded napkin, and send to table hot. FIREPROOF TERRINE. Epigrammes de Faisan a la Jardiniere. I large pheasant, 2 oz. butter, i pint allcmande, salt, pepper, nutmeg, I egg, breadcrumbs, frying-lard or butter, veal forcemeat, panurette, demi- glace sauce, jardiniere of vegetables for centre. Remove the fillets from the pheasant, llatten them, and cut into heart-shaped pieces. Trim neatly, season with pepper and salt, fry lightly in some butter, press between two boards. When cold immerse well in almost cold allemande sauce (repeat this twice to coat thoroughly), set to cool, then egg and crumb. Coat a well-greased border-mould with the panurette, fill with the pre- pared forcemeat, previously mixed with cream to make it very light. Cook in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, and finish in the oven. When done, turn out on a hot dish. Fry the epigrammes in hot fat, drain, insert a small piece of macaroni in each to imitate the bones, and dish up on the border. Fill the centre with prepared vegetable jardiniere, sauce round with demi-glace, and serve hot.5‘o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Faisan aux Epinards [Pheasant Fillets with Spinach). A young pheasant, lb. raw or cooked rabbit meat, J lb. ox-tongue cut into strips, 4 preserved mushrooms, lb. sliced ham, i large truffle sliced, I oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 cooked chicken-livers, a little cream or white sauce, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, onion, carrot, bouquet garni, etc., I i- gill white wine, i pint stock, i gill tomato sauce, seasoning, potato puree, panurette, spinach puree. Bone the pheasant. Pound the rabbit meat, chicken-livers, and the ham, add the yolks of eggs (these may be hard-boiled, if liked), white sauce or cream sutheient to moisten the farce. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, rub through a wire sieve into a basin, and work in the mushrooms and truffle. Lay the boned pheasant on a board, skin downwards, spread the forcemeat on evenly, put the strips of tongue evenly on the farce, roll up care- fully, and sew up the ends and sides. Fry the carcase of the bird with the butter, add and fry brown the mirepoix ; lay the stuffed pheasant on this, allow the surface to take colour, moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, braise gently in a moderate oven for about an hour, when done untie, glaze over the top with meat glaze, and keep hot. Remove the fat from the mire- poix and liquor, add the tomato sauce, boil for a few minutes, then strain and reduce to a nice consistency. Butter a border-mould, sprinkle with panurette, and hll up with potato puree enriched with one or two yolks of eggs, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes or so, and turn out on a hot dish. Have the spinach puree ready and hot, well seasoned, and richly flavoured. Cut the pheasant into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, arrange these neatly on the prepared border, dress the spinach in the centre, sauce over the slices with a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. Faisan a la Bonne Femme.—Braised pheasant, with small pieces of ham, sliced and stewed Spanish onions. Served with a brown sauce mixed with some Indian chutney. — en Casserole.—Pheasant braised in earthenware casserole, with bacon, small onions, and potato cubes (par-fried) ; demi-glace or Madere sauce. — a la Cavour.—Roast or braised pheasant dressed in casserole with nouilles, previously tossed in butter ; demi-glace sauce. — en Coquette,—Puree of cooked pheasant prepared as farce and filled into shapes of hard-boiled white of egg placed on artichoke bottoms, heated up and coated with supreme or veloutee sauce. — a la Llvournalse.—Pheasant barded and braised in casserole, with cepes, mushrooms, and slices of lean bacon ; salmi sauce. — a la Richemont.—Fillets of pheasant larded with truffles and bacon, and braised ; supreme sauce. — a la Rossini.—Pheasant braised white, sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of foie-gras and truffles. Cotelettes de Faisan a la Richelieu.—Pheasant forcemeat shaped into cutlets, and poached ; when cold egged, crumbed, and fried in deep clarified butter. Served with a rich perigueux sauce.ENTRflES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Sii Filets de Faisan a la Talleyrand.—Fillets of pheasant, larded and Ijraiscd. Served with a daintily ])repared stew of minced pheasant arranged round the fillets. Garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Salmis de Faisan a la Bohemienne.—Stewed pheasant in brown sherry sauce, minced ham, and mushrooms. Garnish wnth fried bread croutons and whole stuffed button mushrooms. Salmis de Coq de Bruyeres [Salmi of Grouse). 2 small grouse, t pint Espagnole sauce, t- gill tomato sauce, -f gill sherry wine, 18 stoned French olives, 12 large preserved mushrooms, i small bouquet garni, 8 small button onions, seasoning, i croute of bread. Pick, draw, singe, and truss the grouse as for roasting ; put them in a* baking-tin, cover the breasts each with half an ounce of butter, and roast them for about ten minutes in a quick oven. Take them up, untruss, and cut the birds into small joints. Cut up the carcases and fry them with the bouquet garni (a small bunch of savoury herbs) in the baking-tin with the butter left over from the birds. Pour off the fat and put the remainder in a stew-pan, add the wine, cover, and let reduce cpiickly. Now add the Espagnole and tomato sauces, boil up, season to taste, skim, and cook for ten minutes. Peel the onions, fry them in butter, and braise in a little of the sauce. Arrange the pieces of grouse in a clean stew-pan or saute- pan, season with pepper and salt, add the olives and mushrooms (sliced), and strain the sauce over this. Allow to simmer gently for tw'enty minutes. Fi.x the 'bread croute (a suitably-shaped, oblong or round, piece of bread fried in hot fat), by means of a little frying-batter or white of egg, on an entree dish. Dress the pieces of grouse on this with the garniture (olives, onions, and mushrooms), pour over the sauce carefully, and serve at once. Spatchcock of Grouse. This is an excellent English dish that can be served for dinner, but it is perhaps more suitable for breakfast, lunch or supper. Pick, draw, and singe the bird, place it on a board, and split it down the back, cut throi:gh the bone, cut off the neck close to the body, and the feet at the first joints. Wipe the inside of the bird with a damp cloth, flatten it, and season with salt and pepper. Brush over the inside with sweet oil, and sprinkle with finely chopped shallots and parsley, and dredge with a little flour. Skewer it into a flat shape by means of two steel skewers, place it betv^een a well-greased gridiron, brush over with oiled butter or sw^eet oil, and cook before or over a clear fire (charcoal fire in preference to a coal fire). Cook from fifteen to tw'enty minntes, turn the grid- iron occasionally, and baste freely from time to time with oiled butter. When done take the bird from the grill, remove the skewers, dish up, and serve with a well-prepared tomato sauce. Note.—Pigeons, chickens, pheasants, and partridges are equally good prepared in this way. Grives bardees a la Chasseur. Roast fieldfares, barded, served with mushroom sauce, garnished with minced game and fried sausagesTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 512 MAUVIETTE—LARK. Pate chaud de Mauviettes [Lark Pie). 12-18 larks, stuffing farce, -J- pint demi-glace sauce, i glass sherry, i gill consomme or gravy, bacon, 2 eggs, seasoning, lb. flour, i oz. chopped beef suet, oz. butter, f gill water, a pinch of salt. Prepare a paste and work it the same as ordinary short paste. Line an oval raised pie mould, about three inches high and six inches long, then take twelve to eighteen larks, bone and stuff them with forcemeat (p. 177), and shape neatly. Prepare a thin sauce with the bones, brown sauce, sherry, and consomme or gravy, and reduce well. Roll a slice of bacon round each stuffed lark, line the bottom of the mould with thin slices of bacon (streaky), then place in a layer of the birds, and here and there the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and proceed thus until the mould is full. When hlled, cover the mould with paste, ornament tastefully, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake for about two hours in- a moderate oven. Pluck and clean a few of the heads of birds, and fry them in a little butter (to be set in at the edge of the pie just before serving). When baked, remove the cover carefully, and having reduced the sauce sufficiently, pour over the interior, replace the cover, ornament with the birds’ heads, and serve, Mauviettes a la Parmentier {Stuffed Larks, Parmentier Style). 8 to 10 larks, boned, 4 oz. bacon, i carrot, i onion, i bay-leaf, i small bouquet garni, i stalk of celery (white), seasoning, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, \ lb. puff-paste, i egg, 2 large potatoes. Chop the celery, previously washed and trimmed, very finely, season with salt and pepper, and fill the larks with this, bard and truss them, and place them on a bed of bacon, carrot, and onion, cut small ; add the butter and bouquet garni, and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste frequently. Take out and let cool. Enclose each in a piece of puff-paste, so as to hermetically seal each bird in the paste, giving them the shape of small eggs. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with beaten egg, and bake for hfteen minutes in a moderate oven. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into very fine strips, like straw potatoes, fry them a golden colour in hot fat. Drain and arrange in the shape of a nest on a hot dish, place the baked larks in the centre, and serve with a thin sauce or gravy. Mauviettes a la Pompadour {Larks a la Pompadour). Prepare the following and place alternately in layers in a stew-pan :— q lb. streaky bacon (cut in slices), lb. lean beef, f lb. ve^l, i carrot, 3 cloves, 10 peppercorns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs, 2 blades of whole mace. Cover the stew-pan closely, set it on the fire and allow it to draw until the gravy is extracted, then add a pint of boiling stock, and simmer for half an hour or more. Remove the fat, and strain. Draw and bone six larks. Pound in a mortar three ounces of lean beef, add three ounces of breadcrumbs, one yolk of egg, the rindENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 5'3 of half a lemon finely chopped, a few sprigs of tarragon-leaves,, and the juice of half a lemon. Pound all well, mix with a table- spoonful of cream. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stuff the birds with this, flatten the breasts, dip them in flour, and fry in butter a nice brown. Add the birds to the sauce, cover well, and let simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready six small oval-shaped fried bread croutons, put a thin slice of broiled bacon and a slice of lemon on each. Dress the birds upon these, sauce over, and serve. A glass of Madeira wine will greatly improve the sauce, if added when the birds are being simmered. Mauviettes a la Marianne. Peel, core, and slice i lb. small rennet apples, cook them to a puree with a little butter, par-fry in butter 12 or more larks, duly seasoned. Put the puree of apples on a deep entree dish, and place in the larks. Besprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and brown in a sharp oven or under the salamander until the birds are cooked, then serve. Mauviettes a la Minute. Bone and flatten lightly the required number of larks, and broil them in a saute-pan with butter over a quick fire, adding, when nearly done, some chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and sliced mush- rooms, also a little gravy ; season with salt and pepper, and serve. Mauviettes a la Normande. Peel the required number of large, sour cooking apples, scoop out the interiors carefully so as to obtain a large enough cavity to take a boned lark, stuffed with a little seasoned butter. Cover each with a round of paste crust, place them in a buttered saute-pan, and cook in the oven for about thirty minutes ; dish up, and serve very hot. Petites Timbales de Mauviette {Small Lark Timbales). Bone 8 larks, remove the skin, and pound- in a mortar with 2 whites of egg, k gill demi-glace sauce, k gill of cream, rub through a fine sieve, season to taste, and mix with lb. of foie-gras farce or puree. Butter eight small timbale moulds, and line them well KKSH THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. with the prepared farce, hll the centre of each with a salpicoii of truffles, champignons, and ox-tongue, blended with a little Madere sauce, then fill up with more farce, and poach in the oven for about forty minutes. Unmould the shapes on a hot dish. Insert two lark legs in each, also a glace cherry. Sauce over carefully with a rich game sauce, and serve hot. Mauviettes a la Rentiere. Boned larks stuffed with beef farce, mixed with chopped truffles ; then flour the birds and fry them in clarified butter. Dress the birds on paste croustades lined with grilled bacon, and serve with Madere sauce. Mauviettes a la Bonne Femme. Larks broiled with butter, bacon cut in dice, button onions, and mushrooms ; finished in demi-glace sauce, enriched with meat glaze and lemon-juice. Mauviettes farcies aux TrufTes. Larks boned, stuffed with chicken forcemeat and chopped truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. Mauviettes a la Lucullus. Boned larks stuffed with foie-gras pur4e or farce and braised, placed in china souffle cases, and served with truffle sauce. Mauviettes farcies a la Madrid. 6 larks, boned, 2 eggs, 2^ oz. butter, 2 oz. soft breadcrumbs, i oz. chopped ham, teaspoonful curry paste, 3 oz. lean veal, leek, ^ head celery, i small carrot, i small onion, i bouquet garni, i gill white wine or sherry, ^ pint brown sauce, meat glaze, pepper and salt, fried parsley, 6 paper cases. Pound the veal and ham in a mortar till fine, add the curry paste, one ounce of butter, breadcrumbs, and eggs, mix well, rub through a wire sieve, and season with a little white pepper. Fill up the boned larks by means of a forcing-bag, wrap each bird in a small piece of muslin cloth, and tie up the ends. Chop up the carcase of the birds, put them with one and a half ounce of butter, the carrot, onion, leek, and celery, all cut in slices, in a stew-pan, fry for ten minutes, put in the larks, moisten with white wine, add the bouquet garni, and cook in the oven for about half an hour. Baste the birds occasionally. When cooked, remove, unwrap the birds, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and keep hot. Skim off the fat from the mirepoix in the pan, add the brown sauce, and a little stock, simmer for ten minutes, strain, and skim, put a table- spoonful of meat glaze with half a gill of the sauce, and boil up. Place each bird in a paper case, sauce over with a little of this sauce, garnish round the edges with some fried parsley, dish up, and serve the remainder of the sauce, seasoned with pepper and salt, separately in a sauce-boat. If preferred the birds may be dressed on a border of mashed potatoes instead of serving them in paper cases. Partridges or quails can be cooked and served in the same manner.ENTRIES OF GAME. ETC. {HOT DI.SIIES). 515 ORTOLAN—ORTOLAN. Ortolans aux Cerises. Bone 6 or more ortolans, stuff them with a li\-er farce (p. 178) mixed with a fe\v stoneless sour cherries. Place the birds in a saute-pan containing i oz. melted butter, i bay-leaf, and about 3 oz. cherry kernels. Cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven till the birds are tender. Prepare a light farce of chicken, and poach same in a buttered sunk border mould. Turn out on to a hot dish, cut the ortolans in halves, and range them neatly on the border. Pour off the butter from the saute-pan and moisten with k gill of veal gravy. Add a puree of sour cherries, previously soaked in a little port wine, and heat up. Put this in the centre of the dish, sauce over the birds with a thin demi-glace, and serve hot. Ortolans poches a la Deimonico. Bone four or more ortolans, stuff them with a ham farce, mixed with truffles, place the stuffed ortolans in an earthenware braising- pan on a mirepoix and slices of bacon. Season and moisten with a glass of champagne and a gill of good stock. Have ready a paste made of flour and whites of eggs, roll it out round, and place it on top of the ortolans in the braising-pan. Poach it in the oven from thirty to forty minutes, and send to table in the braising-pan. PLUVIER—PLOVER. Pluviers dores a la Martini [Golden Plovers, Martini Style). Pluck, draw, singe, and truss 3 plovers, place them in a stew-pan with 2 oz. of butter, season with salt and pepper, and let them take colour over a fairly cpiick fire. Pick and wash a pound of spinach, bring it to the boil quicklj’ in salted water, then drain the spinach. Take up the birds, and put the spinach in the stew-5i6 the new century COOKERY BOOK. pan with i oz. butter ; upon this place the plovers, add a glass of white wine, and a pint of rich stock or gravy. Cover the pan, and let its contents cook slowly for about an hour. When done, cut the birds into neat joints, dress them on the spinach, in a fireproof dish. Pour over some hot Madere sauce, place a few puff-paste Fleurons on top, and send to table. Pluviers Dores a la Marianne {Golden Plovers a la Marianne). Procure three golden plovers, ready trussed for roasting, and cook them the same as directed in the foregoing recipe. To serve, cut the birds into neat joints. Dress them on the spinach on a hot entree dish. Pour some hot gravy or Madere sauce round the base of the dish and send to table. Compote de Pluviers a la Monaco [Compote of Plovers). 2 small plovers, trussed for roasting, i oz. butter, i lb. potatoes cooked and made into a puree, 2 small tomatoes, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms (champignons), i gill denii-glace sauce, gill stock, i glass sherry or Marsala, -I oz. meat glaze or Lemco, i small bouquet garni, i egg, seasoning, 12 small Godiveau quenelles (p. 177). Roast the birds for ten or fifteen minutes in front of the fire, or in the oven, using the butter for basting. When cool cut them into neat joints, remove the skin, and put the pieces in a saute-pan. Place the mushrooms, sliced, and the t]uenelles, previously cooked and drained, on top of the pieces. Toss the tomatoes (sliced) in a little butter, add the sherry, cover, reduce, then add the carcases of the birds, cut up small, the stock, sauce, and bouquet garni, and cook for about twenty minutes. Remove the bones and herbs, pass the remainder through a fine hair sieve or tammy cloth, add the meat glaze or meat extract, and pour over the pieces of plover, etc., in the saute-pan. Season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of krona pepper. Cover and let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Dress on a baked potato border, with the garniture in the centre, and the sauce, previously skimmed and well-reduced, poured round. Send to table hot. BECASSE SNIPE. Filets de Becasse a la Talleyrand [Fillets of Woodcock or Snipe). 3 to 4 woodcocks, trussed for roasting, 4 oz. fillet of beef, 4 oz. panade, I white and 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. fat pork, glass Sauterne, 4 oval croutes of fried bread, i gill white stock, pint sauce Gibier, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, mashed potatoes for a small border. Roast the woodcocks, and baste well with clarified butter. Remove the fillets and put on a plate, remove the meat from the legs, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar. Pound the beef and pork together till smooth, add the panade, pounded game, work in two yolks of eggs, add salt and pepper to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Trim the fillets neatly, cover each completely with the above farce, when set, dip in beaten white of egg, place in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a gill of white stock and half a glass of Sauterne, and poach in a quick oven for twelve minutes. The croutes should be as nearly as possible of the same shape as theENTRtiES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). S'7 prepared fillets. Spread each with forcemeat (the same as made for fillets) giving them a dome-shaped appearance, smooth over with a wet knife, put them in a hot oven for ten minntes, jnst long enough to get thoroughly hot and to colour the top. Drain the fillets on a cloth, dish them np alternately with the crohtes on a thin border of mashed potatoes, stand the dish in the oven for a few seconds longer. Put the remainder of forcemeat in a stew-pan, add a little game sauce, previously well reduced, when hot, add a yolk of egg, stir over the fire nntil it begins to thicken, dress it in the centre of the dish, piled np high, sauce over quickly, and serve. Becassines braisees aux Choux [Bvaised Snipe with Cabbage). Truss twelve snipe, par-fry them in a little butter, drain, and add game sauce, and one glass of white wine, and braise for twenty minutes. Blanch and afterwards cook in stock two firm spring cab- bages. Drain off the stock, and finish cooking in a stew-pan, lined with bacon and moistened with a little rich stock, place the snipe on top of this. Cover the pan, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes longer. Press the cabbage lightly into a buttered basin, unmould on to a hot dish, arrange the snipe round the cabbage, surmount with a silver skewer or hatelet with whole truffies. Sauce over with the sauce in which the snipe were first cooked, and serve hot, Becasse a la Careme. Par-fry the required number of boned snipe in a saute-pan, in oil (Provence), and cut each in half. Dip the sections in a mixture composed of French mustard, lemon-juice, and white wine. Make a fumet of the carcases, etc., adding to it a small glass of brandy. Strain this and re-heat the snipe in it. Dish up in a terrine lined with slices of fried bacon, and serve. Capissantes de Becasse aux trufles.—Minced snipe with truffles, mixed with game sauce, filled into shells, covered with a rich game sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in a sharp oven till browned,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Si8 Becasses farcies a la Stockholm.—Par-boiled boned snipe stuffed with a forcemeat of beef and pork, mixed witli chopped shallots, mush- rooms, and gherkins, braised in the oven, and served with white wine sauce, Pate de Becasse a I’Anglaise.—Raised pie filled with partially roasted snipe cut into joints with layers of calves’ liver and bacon force- meat, and ham. When baked, remove the cover and fill up with truffle sauce, then replace the cover, and serve hot. CAILLES—QUAILS. Cailles a la Moliere [Quails, Moliere Style). 4 quails, 2 oz. butter, i lb. lean veal, 1 lb. beef suet, 4 oz. panade, 2 whole and I yolk of eggs, J gill cream, pint game sauce, glass sherry, 6 heads of mushrooms, 6 cocks’ combs, 6 cocks’ kernels, 8 small chicken or veal quenelles, 2 truffles, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Truss the cjuails for roasting, put them in a saute-pan or tin with the butter, and roast in the oven till three-parts done. Cut the veal into fine slices, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Shred the suet finely, pound well, mix with the veal, add the panade, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, work in the yolks of eggs and a little cream. Put this in a basin. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the forcemeat. Butter a small border-mould, fill up with the above preparation, place it in a stew-pan, with enough boiling water to come about half-way up the side of the mould. Let it come to the boil, cover with a buttered paper, and finish in the oven. Prepare eight small quenelles with the remainder of forcemeat, poach them in a little stock, strain, find put in the game sauce, previously heated. Add the sherry, cocks’ combs and kernels, also the truffles cut into slices, let the whole simmer for a few minutes, and keep hot till wanted. Turn the border of forcemeat on to a round entree dish. Cut the quails in halves or quarters, place them in the hot sauce for about five minutes, then dress them neatly round the base of the border. Dress the financiere garniture in the centre of the dish, boil up the sauce, sauce over the whole, and serve. Cailles a ITndienne [Braised Quails, Indian Style). Bone six small quails, and truss them again. Shred rather finely one small onion, a small carrot, a tender celery stalk, and a few fresh mushrooms. Fry these with the bones in a braising-pan with enough butter, till they are of a pale colour. Place the quails on top, and season ; cover with butter, and braise in the oven till they are done. About ten minutes before taking up the birds, add half a gill of Madere sauce, and half a gill of richly flavoured curry sauce. Dress the quails on a neatly shaped border of rice. Boil up the sauce, skim it well, and strain it over the quails, Serve hot.ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 519 Cailles a la Tosca {Quails, Tosca Style). 4 quails, game forcemeat for stuffing, 2 or 3 truflles, risotto for border (see below), 12 stuffed capsicums, 2 oz. bacon, carrot, onion and bay-leaf for mirepoix, stock, seasoning, Madere sauce. Bone the breasts of the quails, cook the bones in the stock to flavour it. Fill the empty space of the quails with game forcemeat, and insert the truffles cut into slices. Truss them and place them in a saute-pan containing a bed of braising or sliced bacon, slices of carrot and onion, and the bay-leaf (a mirepoix). Add a gill of stock and half a gill of sauce, and cook in a brisk oven for half an hour, baste frequently. Fill a border-mould with risotto (see below), and keep hot. Fill the capsicums (use preserved ones) with forcemeat of game, poach them in stock. Lift out the quails, strain and skim the sauce, add to it the remainder of the sauce, reduce well, and season to taste. Unmould the risotto on to a hot entree dish, cut each quail in two, and dress them pyramidically in the centre of the border. Lay the stuffed capsicums in a circle on top of the risotto border, pour the reduced sauce over the quails, and serve hot. Game Forcemeat [for Cailles a la Tosca). -!f lb. game, free from skin and bone, ^ lb. calf's liver, i oz. butter, some bacon, i shallot, p lb. soft bread (French rolls) soaked in milk, i whole egg and 3 yolks, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg. Pass the game twice through a mincing machine, cut the bacon into thin slices or dice. Melt the butter, add the shallot, peeled and chopped, and saute the liver in this for a few minutes. Pound it in a mortar, add the minced game, and pound both together till smooth. Extract all the liciuid from the soaked bread, add it to the meat in the mortar, and continue to pound. Add the eggs, mix thoroughly, and season to ta^te with the above-named con- diments. Rub all through a fine sieve, poach a small quantity of the farce in boiling water to test its consistency, and use as directed. Risotto {for Cailles a la Tosca). 4 oz. butter, I oz. onion minced, 4 oz. rice (Italian), iV pint white stock, I tablespoonful glaze or meat extract, i oz. grated parinesan cheese, I small trufSe chopped finely, gill tomato pulp. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, add the onion, fry for a moment, then put in the rice, picked, but not washed, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, then cover with stock, and add more from time to time. Cover and cook gently for about an hour, stir occasionally with a fork. When nearly done add the remainder of the butter, the truffle, and the tomato pulp, also the necessary seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover again, and put it in the oven for another ten minutes. By this time all the moisture should become absorbed. Stir in the grated cheese, mix well, and use as directed. Supreme de Cailles a la Lucullus {Supreme of Quails) 4 quails, i lb. veal forcemeat, gill cream, 2 truffles, i oz. butter, seasoning, truffle sauce, Doria potatoes for centre of dish. Singe and truss the quails, cut them in halves, season with salt520 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. and pepper, and cook them in a casserole with the butter for ten minutes or so. Remove the breast-bone of each half, and press them lightly. Mix the farce with the cream, season well, and incorporate the truffles, finely chopped. Three-parts fill eight small buttered cutlet-moulds with the farce, place half a quail in each, and cover with farce. Poach them in a saute-pan containing boiling water for about thirty minutes. Fill up a small buttered border-mould with the remainder of the farce, and poach likewise. Unmould the border on to a hot dish, upon it dress the supremes, sauce over carefully with truffle or perigueux sauce, and fill the centre of the dish with Doria potato balls. Send a boat of sauce to the table to be handed round with the dish. Doria potatoes are made by mixing half a pound of potato puree with half a pound of savoury choux paste and one ounce of grated cheese. This is made up into marble shapes, and fried in clarified butter, Souffles de Cailles a la Marechale. 6 quails, t lb. of lean veal, lb. of calf’s liver, i gill Espagnole sauce, 2 eggs, I tablespoonful brandy, i tablespoonful Marsala, salt and pepper, i oz. butter, mirepoix of bacon, carrot, onion, etc., pint of cooked asparagus tips or broad beans, 4 oz. rice, i pint stock, i gill demi-glace or Madere sauce. Bone the quails, make a fumet with the carcase, and boil up with the stock, then strain. Cut the breast portion from the birds, and braise them with a mirepoix and butter in the usual manner ; toss the calf’s liver in a little butter. Remove the skin from the remainder of quails, pound the meat in a mortar with the liver and the veal, add the egg-yolks and the sauce, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Add the wine, brandy, and whites of eggs stiffly whipped. Butter six oval dariole moulds, and place in each a braised breast of quail, then fill up with the prepared farce, and poach in the oven for about forty minutes. Blanch and cook the rice in stock, finish it in butter, and season to taste, mix carefully with the asparagus or broad beans, and pile in the centre of a hot dish. Place the quail souffles round it, sauce over with demi-glace or Madere, and serve hot. Escalopes de Cailles a la Princesse {Quail Cutlets). 4 quails, 2 oz. butter, t lb, gratin farce, h pint small rissole potatoes, I bundle sprue (small green asparagus), i gill Madere sauce, a little cream, 8 small nouille cups, i egg, breadcrumbs, seasoning, chopped parsley. Remove all the bones, excepting the leg bones, from the quails, then cut each in half ancl flatten ; fry lightly in butter, and press. When cold, spread each half with gratin farce (make into cutlet shape) ; season well, egg and crumb, and fry to a golden colour in clarified butter. Have ready the rissole potatoes (pea-shaped potatoes tossed in butter) and asparagus or sprue cut into small pieces and cooked in salted water and re-heated in a little butter and cream, and season. Fill the small paste cups with the prepared potatoes, range the sprue in the centre of an entree dish.ENTRliES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). S2I dress the escalopes round this, and range the pasted- cups with potatoes round the base of the dish. Sprinkle a dittle chopped parsley over the potatoes and the sprue. Pour a little sauce round the base of the dish and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. Cailles poelees a la Parisienne {Quails in Casserole). 6 quails, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper ami nutmeg, parsley, 3 or 4 chicken livers, i gill demi-glace or sauce Madere, i gill milk, a handful of bread- crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, i shallot, about 6 slices of bacon. Prepare the quails as for stuffing. Put the milk in a stew-pan, add half an ounce of butter, a small bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, when boiling stir in the breadcrumbs and simmer for ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf and stir in the egg- yolks. Cut up the chicken livers small, saute them in butter in which a hnely-chopped shallot has been blended, season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the liver, etc., through a sieve. Mix the puree with the breadcrumbs, etc., and stuff the birds with this. Wrap each quail in a thin slice of bacon, place them in a casserole with the remainder of butter, and cook over a slow fire for half an hour. Pour off the fat and finish cooking in the sauce (demi-glace or Madeira). Cailles Farcies aux Nouillettes (Stuffed Quails with Nouilles). 4 cpiails, mirepoix, 2 truffles, i tablespoonful Indian chutney, ] lb. chicken farce, i oz. butter, i terrine or tin foie-gras naturcl, 2 oz. ham, i glass port wine, I gill demi-glace, i dessertspoonful Lemco, i teaspoonful red-currant jelly, i lb. nouille paste, seasoning. Bone the quails, season the inside, and coat with a very light chicken farce, to which a little rich cream has been added. Insert a fair sized piece of foie-gras in the centre of each, and truss the birds for braising. Braise them on a bed of mirepoix in the usual way, and when done glaze them and let cool. To the mirepoix add the bones of the quails, and fry them a little over a quick fire ; pour off the fat, and add the demi-glace sauce and a little stock. Reduce well, and add the Lemco, strain into a small stew-pan. To this add the port wine, red-currant jelly, and chutney, reduce again, and strain. Keep hot with the quails. Make a neat border of nouille paste, fix it on a round entree dish, brush over with egg, and bake. With the remainder of this paste make very small nouilles (cut into fine shreds), cook these in salted water, and drain. Next fry or saute them in butter, season to taste, and mix with finely shredded ham or tongue. Arrange this in the form of a pyramid in the dish with prepared border. Dress the quails on top, sauce over carefully, and send the remainder of the sauce to the table. Cailles en Feuilletage [Quails in Puff Pastry). Bone four cjuails, stuff them \w\ih. liver farce (p. 178), and braise them in a mirepoix with a little rich and well-flavoured stock. Take up, let cool, and cut each bird in two. In boning the quails do not remove the legs or feet. Enfold each quail in a round piece of good puff-paste, leaving the foot out, brush over with egg, andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 522 bake in a fairly hot oven a nice golden brown. Place a little white paper frill upon the foot of each quail, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Cailles en Papillotes [Quails in Paste Cnist). 6 small quails, 2 small onions, i carrot, celery, 2 fresh mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, ij oz. meat glaze, J lb. feuilletage (p. 133) or rough puff-paste, a little sauce Madere, seasoning. Pluck and singe the quails, and bone the breasts from the inside. Shred hnely the onions, red part of the carrot, white part of celery, and mushrooms. Fry all these in a stew-pan with the butter till a light fawn colour, and stir frequently till cool. When done, season and moisten with meat glaze and spread on a plate to cool. Shape the mixture into small balls, insert one into each quail, shape them neatly, and enclose in rough puff-paste, just like a dumpling. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg- yolk, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Dish up on an entree dish on a folded napkin, and send to table with a boat of well-flavoured sauce Madere. Pate de Cailles et Ris de Veau Moscovite [Quail and Sweetbread Pie, Muscovite Style). 3-4 fat quails, 2 oz. rice, i oz. butter, calf’s sweetbreads, mirepoix, i pint rich stock, bacon, 3 cepes, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 4 oz. ham, ^ pint supreme sauce, f lb. flour, 8 oz. butter for paste (rough puff), seasoning, sauce Villeroi. Blanch, trim, and press the sweetbreads ; braise them with the quails on a mirepoix in the usual manner, and let cool. Toss the rice in the butter for five minutes, then moisten with half the stock, add two slices of streaky bacon, previously cut into strips and fried, add more stock with seasoning, and cook till tender. Cut the cepes into slices, and toss in butter. Slice the eggs, and cut the ham into thin slices. Prepare the paste, roll it out, place it in a well- floured napkin, and put this into a pudding-basin, thus lining it. Coat the inside of the paste crust with a layer of rice, then with slices of hard-boiled egg. Next put in the quails, cut in quarters, and the sweetbread cut into slices, the cepes, and the ham. Sauce over each layer with cold supreme sauce and seasoning. When the shape is filled, trim off the paste round the edge, roll it out again, and fix on a cover, wetting the edges. Now turn the shape carefully on to a buttered baking-tin, remove the napkins, brush away the flour, egg the paste, and decorate with fancifully cut leaves of paste. Brush over these with beaten egg, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour. Slip the pate carefully on to a hot dish, and send it to table with a boat of hot Villeroi sauce, made as follows ; To h pint of allemande sauce add one tablespoonful each of truffle essence and ham essence, reduce, and season to taste. Cailles en Caisses.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised, cut in halves, and dressed in quail cases ; served with perigueux sauce,523 ENrRJ&ES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Cailles en Casserole.—Quails l)raisccQwhole in firejiroof earthenware stew- pan (casserole) ; 'garnished at will with braised lettuce, endive, mush- rooms, button onions, truffles, tinanciere, etc. ; sent to table in the casserole. — sous la Cendre.—Trussed quails barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers or charcoal, the same way as potatoes ; when done remove the paper, arrange the birds neatly on a dish. Serve with a rich- brown sauce reduced with Marsala. — en Chemise.—Boned quails, stuffed with a liver farce, wrapped up, and braised rare. Served with sauce Bourguignonne. — en Compote.—Quails par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with dice of broiled bacon and fried bread croutons, small mushrooms, and braised button onions. — Demidofl.—Quails braised whole en casserole, with small shapes of carrots, turnips, sliced truffles ; demi-glace sauce ; sent to table en casserole. — a la Diane.—Quails boned, stuffed, and braised in hearts of lettuce en casserole ; financiere garniture. — a la Georges Sand.—Quails boned, stuffed, and par-braised; when cold, rolled in puff-paste and baked in oven. — a la Jardiniere.—Broiled quails, with finely-cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, peas, etc. ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Mirepoix.—This consists of quails marinaded with white or red wine, vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, juniper berries, etc., and allowed to steep for two to three hours. Braise the birds on a bed of mirepoix. Serve with marinade sauce. — an Nid.—Halved, tossed in butter, and cooked en casserole with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce ; finished with nest-like border of shredded artichoke bottoms. — a la Piemontaise.—Quails braised whole, dressed in cooked rice mixed with tossed chicken liver, foie-gras, and truffles, en casserole, and finished in oven ; sent to table in same pan as cooked in. — a la Regence.—Quails boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, and braised ; garnished with financiere ; truffle sauce. Croustades de Cailles a la Champenoise.—Braised halves of quails stuffed with game forcemeat, chopped mushrooms, and liver. Dressed on fried bread crusts, glazed, and served with demi-glace sauce. Ponding de Cailles a I’Anglaise {Quail Pudding).—Line a pudding mould with suet crust and fill it with sections of quail and thin slices of lean beef alternately, season, add stock, cover with suet crust, then boil or steam. PERDREAUX—PARTRIDGES. Perdreaux aux Champignons [Partridges with Mushrooms). 2 partridges, 4 oz. lean bacon, peppercorns, 2 cloves, 3 oz. butter, ^ lb. fresh or lb. preserved mushrooms, chopped parsley, i gill stock, seasoning, 1- lb. larding bacon, a mirepoix consisting of a small bunch of herbs, thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, sliced onion, carrot, and turnip ; brown or demi-glace sauce, I glass port wine, 2 oz. cooked ham, meat glaze. Untrirss the birds, and bone, leaving the end bone of the legs. Lard the breasts of the partridges with strips of larding bacon, shape them neatly. Let the mirepoix get thoroughly hot in a524 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. braising-pan, put in the birds, larded side upwards, season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, put a few slices of lean bacon on top, and set it in a hot oven for about hfteen minutes, then add the port wine and stock. Braise for about thirty minutes, keeping the birds well basted, then take them up, cut them in halves, brush over with meat glaze, and keep hot. Chop up the carcases of the birds, and put this into the pan in which the birds were cooked. Add about half a pint of sauce, boil up quickly, remove the fat, strain the sauce, skim well, and season to taste. Dish up the birds on a border of mashed potatoes or fried bread crouton. Wash, skin, and chop the mushrooms hnely, fry them lightly in two ounces of butter, with two ounces of chopped ham, season to taste, and serve in the centre of or round the partridges, as directed. Celestines de Perdreaux. 3 partridges, 2 oz. panade, 3 large truffles, gill rich stiff brown sauce, breadcrumbs, seasoning, fi-ying-fat, chestnut puree for garnish. Remove the breasts from the birds, skin them, and flatten each breast or fillet with a wetted cutlet-bat. Take the meat from the legs and wings and pound it in a mortar, add the panade, two or three egg-yolks, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mince the truffles, and cook for some time in the brown sauce. Spread each fillet with a layer of truffle ragout, then with a layer of farce. Pare each fillet neatly, brush over carefully with the beaten egg-white, and cover with breadcrumbs (panurette crumbs are particularly well adapted for this purpose), and fry in deep fat to a nice brown colour. Drain and dish up in the form of a circle on a hot round dish round a pyramidal shape of chestnut puree. Pour a little demi-glace or tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve at once. Perdrix braisees aux Choux (Braised Partridges with Cabbage). 2 or 3 partridges, 2 small cabbages, i carrot, i onion, 8 oz, salt pork or fat bacon, 3 cloves, bouquet gaini, i glass white wine, i pint rich stock, I gill Espagnole sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 2 oz. dripping. Singe, draw, and truss the birds, with their wings turned in- wards. Put them in a roasting-tin, cover with dripping, roast for ten minutes, and drain from fat. Wash and quarter the cabbages, cook for ten minutes in salted water, and drain. Into a large stew- pan place slices of pork or bacon, carrot and onion, cloves, and bouquet, lay the partridges on this with cabbage on top, and another layer of bacon or pork. Add the wine and stock, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, cover and cook slowly for thirty to forty-five minutes. Dress the cabbages on a dish to form a bed, place the partridges on this (whole or cut up), garnish with slices of carrot, and bacon or pork. Skim and strain the gravy, add the sauce, boil up and sauce all over. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Financiere (Partridge Cutlets). 2 partridges trussed for roasting, i hard-boiled white of egg, 3 truffles, 18 preserved mushrooms, i small bottle financiere, ^ oz. butter, i egg, i oz. panade, i gill veloutee sauce, i gill sauce Madere, meat glaze, salt and pepper, a crouton of fried bread, a small quantity of mashed potatoes.52s ENTRIiES OF GAME, ETC. {HOF DISHES). Roast one of the partridges, bone and pound the other, add the raw egg, panade, and veloutee sance. Season to taste, and rnb through a wire sieve. Bone the cooked partridge when cold, and cut into thin slices. Stamp ont some rounds for garnishing eight to ten cutlet shapes, stamp out some little rounds of hard-boiled white of egg, truflie, and mushroom. Rutter eight to ten cutlet moulds, decorate them with the pre})ared rounds, and put them on the ice to set. Work up the farce, and put a thin layer in each mould, lay a thin slice of cooked partridge on top, fill up with farce, press down and smooth over with a wet knife, put them in a saute- pan containing a little hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. Heat up the hnanciere ragout in the sauce IMadere, add the remaining mush- rooms and truffles, left whole or cut in dice, and simmer for a few minutes. Fix the croute of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, around which put a thin border of mashed potatoes. Turn out the cutlets, dress them neatly on the border of mashed potatoes. x\rrange the hnanciere as a garniture artistically on the croute, pour the sauce round, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Partridge Hodge-podge. 1 brace of partridges, f lb. streaky bacon, 2 sheep’s kidneys, 6 to 8 sance oysters (bearded), i shallot, 4 potatoes, i gill stock, i oz. butter, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Bone the birds and cut them into neat pieces. Cut the bacon into slices, skin the kidneys and slice them, peel and chop the shallot, wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into round slices about ont- eighth of an inch thick. Take a fireproof tureen, or large baking-dish, butter it well, and All np with alternate layers of partridge, bacon, kidneys, and oysters, with a layer of potato slices in the centre. Season each layer with pepper and salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne, sprinkle the chopped shallot over the top, and pour in the stock. Melt the butter, dip each slice of the remaining I'potatoes in the butter and arrange them on the top of the contents of the dish ; the slices must overlap each other neatly and be arranged in rows, covering the surface completely. Pour the remainder of the melted butter over the potatoes. Sprinkle with a few fried bread- crumbs, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook the dish in a moderately-heated oven for about two hours, ^^dlen done remove the buttered paper, sprinkle the top with parsley, and serve hot. Pate de Perdreaux [Partridge Pic). 2 young partridges, lb. lean veal, lb. boiled bacon or gammon, i gill soubise or onion sauce, i oz. butter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, preserved mushrooms, salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Puff or rough paste for covering. Procure the birds ready trussed, divide them into halves, and526 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fry them slightly in a saute-pan with the butter. Line a pie-dish with thin slices of lean veal and bacon, lay in the birds, season with chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a good pinch of aromatic spice. Put a layer of veal and bacon slices on the top, pour the sauce over, and cover with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Roll out the paste and cover the pie in the usual manner. Bake for a full hour in a fairly well-heated oven, and pour a little rich stock or gravy into the pie as it leaves the oven. Serve eithe^r hot or cold. Souffle de Perdreau a I’Anglaise {Partridge Souffle). About 8 oz. cooked partridge, 2 oz. brown breadcrumbs, 3 eggs, gill cream, 1 gill brown stock, butter, 3 large truffles, i oz. panade, pepper, salt, aud cayenne. Free the meat from bone, skin, and sinew^ cut it up finely, pound until smooth, add the breadcrumbs and panade, mix well, work in three yolks of eggs, one at a time, add the seasoning, stock, and cream, mix thoroughly, and pass it through a fine wire\sieve. Butter one large or two small plain moulds, decorate the bottonr with fancifully-cut slices of truffles, when set, fill up with the force- meat, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stew-pan containing boiling water, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with Madere or perigueux sauce Salmis de Perdrix blanche a la Regence {Salmi of Ptarmigan). Prepare this salmi the same as that of duck, adding a good half-pint of garnishing (a la Regence) ten minutes before serving. Reckon one ptarmigan for three persons, or three for eight. Perdreaux a la Bateliere.—Braised partridge with button onions, mush- rooms, garnished with fried eggs and crayfish tails ; sauce demi-glace. — a la Beauharnais.—Braised partridges, garnished with stewed asparagus points, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms. Served with truffle sauce. — a la Bernoise.—Boned partridge stuffed with chestnut puree, then braised, and served with brown truffle enriched with tomato puree. — en Casserole.—Partridge braised in an earthenware stew-pan, with dice shapes of bacon, button onions, mushrooms, and bouquet garni ; brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice. — a la Cedard.—Stuffed partridges larded and braised, served with a daintily-prepared foie-gras and truffle stew, moistened with a rich brown sauce. — a la Chantilly.—Partridges stuffed with foie-gras and braised, garnished with lentil puree in border or timbales ; sauce Madere. — a la Chasseur.—Par-roasted partridge stewed with chopped mush- rooms, claret sauce, and chopped lemon-rind ; garnished with Fleurons or sippets of bread. — a la Danoise.—Partridges split from the back, flattened out, breaded, grilled, and served with Danish sauce. — a la Gambetta.—Partridge hrst broiled and then stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with small stuffed tomatoes dressed on croutons.S-7 ENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). Perdreaux blancs aux Olives.—Ptarmigan par-roasted and stewed in brown sauce with olives. — a la Pompadour. - Partridge stuffed with liver farce, larded and braised ; served with goose liver (foie-gras) and truffle garnish; perigueux sauce. Chartreuse de Perdreaux.—Stewed partridges, with braised spring cab- bages and young carrots, dressed in the centre of a border of mace- , doine of vegetables. Filets de Perdreaux a la Marechale.—Braised breasts of partridges, with truffles, mushrooms, and fried potato quenelles or croquettes. — a la Princesse.—Breasts of partridges, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, braised, and served with Madeira wine sauce. Pains de Perdreaux_ a la Dauphine.—Poached or steamed quenelles of partridge forcemeat, mixed with truffles and mushrooms. Served with asparagus points, button mushrooms, in centre or side of dish, and Madeira sauce. — a la Menager.—Darioles or timbales of jDartridge (game) farce (p. 178), mixed with truffles and mushrooms, poached, aud garnished with asparagus points, potato croquettes, and button mushrooms ; Madere sauce. Salmi de Perdreaux a la Chasseur.—Stewed partridges with cho})ped mushrooms, bordelaise sauce, chopped rind of lemon, garnished with Fleurons or sippets. — aux Truffes.—Par-roasted partridges, then stewed in brown sauce with truffles like “ Salmi.” Canard Sauvage a la Nemrode {Braised Duck). I wild duck, duck's liver and foie-gras, i orange, mirepoix for braising, I oz. butter, demi-glace and poivrade sauces, flavoured with port wine and red-currant jelly, 8-9 croustade or tartlet crusts, asparagus points and mushrooms, bechamel or supreme sauce, seasoning. Bone the cluck, chop up the bones and fry them a little, then put in an earthenware braise pan, tvith the mirepoix and butter. Make a farce with the duck’s liver and foie-gras, frying the former in butter in which two finely chopped shallots have been blended. jMoisten with very little brown sauce, spread the farce over the cut side of the cluck, season with salt and pepper, roll up, and sew up the sides, then braise in the prepared mirepoix till the meat isTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 528 tender, basting frequently. When done, take up the duck, let it cool a little, then cut into neat slices, and keep them hot. Pour off the fat from the mirepoix, add the demi-glace and poivrade sauces, and let reduce, then strain, and skim ; a tablespoonful of port wine and a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly should then be added. Season with paprika and salt if needed. Fill the croustade shapes with finely cut cooked asparagus points, heated up in white sauce, place on the rounds of duck, glaze over, and put a mushroom head on each. Decorate with hnely shredded and blanched orange rind. Dish up, and serve with sauce separately. Zephires de Canard sauvage a la Metropole {Zephyrs of Wild Duck). [ wild duck, I dessertspoonful chutney, 4 oz. panade, puff-paste trim- mings, glace cherries for garnish, -|- pint salmi sauce, i wineglass port wine, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, cooked sorrel or spinach, Espagnole sauce, tomato sauce. Remove the meat from the duck, and pound it in a mortar till (piite smooth, add the panade and yolks of eggs, gradually mix in about a gill of salmi sauce and half the port wine, season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, and pass the farce through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the farce, before using it, in a little boiling stock or water. If found too hrm add a little more sauce, and if found too moist a little more panade. Butter 8 or 9 z e p h i r e m o u 1 d s, hll them with the mixture, and poach in the usual manner from fifteen to twenty minutes. Meanwhile prepare the sauce, using the carcase of the duck, Espagnole''and tomato sauce, also the remainder of port wine. Season and strain. Turn out the zephires on to a hot dish, arrange them neatly. Place a fancifully-cut ring or oblong border of baked puff-paste on each. Fill the centre with cooked hot and well-seasoned sorrel or spinach puree, and put one or two halves of glace cherries in the centre of the puree. Place the dish in a sharp oven for a Dw minutes, pour a little of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Canards sauvages a I’Americaine {Wild Duck, American Style).—Braised wild ducks stuffed with soaked bread, well buttered and seasoned. Served with a brown sauce made of boiled duck giblets, chopped shallots, and port wine.ENTIiiiES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). 5^9 ABBREVIATED RECIPES. Canards sauvages a la Chasseur. - Braised wild ducks stuffed with a mixture of minced game and chopped mushrooms. Served with a game sauce, into which a little black-currant jelly has been incorporated. Cotelettes de Pluviers en Caisses [Plover Cutlets in Cases).—Boned plovers, stuffed with forcemeat and shaped into cutlets and braised, served in small cutlet-shaped paper cases. Serve cha,sseur sauce separately with this dish. Filets de Canards sauvages aux Truffes.—Fillets of wild duck cooked in butter and finished in a rich brown sauce made of wild duck giblets and finely minced shallots, with sliced mushrooms and sliced truffles as garnish. Salmis de Pluviers a la Chasseur [Salmi of Plovers, Hunter's Style).— Proceed the same as for salmi of duck (p. 464), adding about twelve preserved mushrooms, cut in slices or chopped coarsely, and omit- ting the olives. The dish should be garnished with eight heart- shaped bread croutons brushed over with meat glaze. SARCELLE WIDGEON OR TEAL. Sarcelle a la Moscovite [Widgeon, Moscow Style). I tender widgeon, i small bouquet of herbs, -J- glass sherry. i oz. butter, i- pint Espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, i gill stock, 2 thin slices cooked ox-tongue, i large trullle, 6 mushrooms, 8 small Godiveau quenelles, salt, pep))er, nutmeg, fried l)read croiite or croutons. Singe, draw, and joint the bird, chop up the carcase and })iit it in a stew-pan with a little butter, cook over a cpiick lire to brown, add the bouquet, moisten with stock, and let simmer for fifteen minutes. Heat up the butter in a sante-pan, lay in the pieces, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, cook over a brisk fire for six minutes, then add the sherry. Cover, and reduce a little, then add the Espagnole and tomato sauces, and simmer slowly till tender. Cut the tongue and truffles into julienne strips, mince the mushrooms and put them, together with the Godiveau cjuenelles, in a stew-pan, strain over the prepared gra^'y of the carcase, pre- viously skimmed, add a little seasoning, and let cook together for ten minutes. Skim the sauce containing the duck. Place the croLite of bread in the centre of a hot dish, on it arrange the duck as neatly as possible, garnish with alternate groups of tongue and truffle, mushrooms and quenelles. Put the gravy with the sauce, boil up, strain, and pour a little over and round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Put paper frills on the ends f)f the wings and legs. If small bread croutons are used, omit the centre croute and place the former round the base of the dish along with the garniture. Sarcelles aux Olives [Teal or Widgeon with Olives).—This dish is l^repared exactlj^ the same as “ Salmi de Canard aux Olives,” using two to three widgeons instead of duclc. — bardees a la Westphalie.—Braised teal barded, served with slices of broiled Westphalian ham, also sliced truffles added to the sauce. LLTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S30 Tetras d’Amerique a la Chasseur.—American goose stewed in brown Madeira wine sauce, with chopped mushrooms and shallots previously blended in butter. Andouillettes de Gibier* en Caisses. 4 oz. cooked game, freed from skin and bone, 3 mushrooms, 2 oz. lean bacon or ham (cooked), 2 oz. butter, 1 small shallot, i dessertspoonful flour, I egg, a little stock, lemon-juice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, pepper and salt, nntnieg, pig’s canl, round or oval souffle cases. Chop finely the game, ham, and mushrooms, fry the finely chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, stir in the Hour, and cook, while stirring, for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of stock, let it come to the boil, mix in the chopped meat, add a teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, bind w i t h the yolk of one egg, season with pepper, salt, and a little grate of nut- m e g, a n d spread on a plate to cool. Make up into neatly- shaped, flat r o u n d s about the size of jiaper cases, enfold in pig’s caul, and fasten the ends with a little white of egg. Let stand for a few minutes to set. Butter the inside of the paper cases, fry sufficient parsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan, fry the andouillettes a golden colour over a moderate fire or in the oven, and drain on paper or cloth. Brush the surface of each with liquid meat glaze. Pass in the oven for a few minutes, and put on beds of fried parsley in paper cases. Dish up and serve with a boat of piquante or tomato sauce. Croustades de Gibier a la Gambetta. A CROUSTADE CUP. Prepare a rich ragoCit of game, the joints being cut rather small, and freed from bones. Add 2 to 3 sliced truffles and fill into croustades paste. Garnish the dish with small stuffed tomatoes and serve hot, ♦ Any kind of chicken, veal, pork, or any other meat may be substituted for game, but the name then changes; as, Andouillcltcs cic Volatile, .Indouilletles dc Vcaii, etcS3! ENl'REES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHES). Friandines de Gibier a la Perigueux. Prepare about one pound of salpicon (p. 124) of any kind of cooked game, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles. Take one pound of puff-paste, roll it out thinly, stamp out some rounds with a fluted pastry-cutter, put a small heap of salpicon mince in the centre of half of the rounds, wet the edges with a brush, cover with remaining rounds, press gently, taking care to keep the mince in the centre. Brush over with beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made breadcrumbs mixed with a small handful of chopped ham or a dessertspoonful of chopped truffles, fry in clarihed butter, drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramidal form, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of sauce Perigueux. Mousses de Gibier a la Lion d’Or [Mousses of Game). About I lb. of raw game, pheasant, partridge, or any other bird (freed from skin and bones), 6 oz. pork (fresh), 3 raw eggs, 3 oz. panadc, i No. 12 size jar foie-gras, i gill brown sauce, pepper, salt, and aromatics, i gill supreme sauce, i oz. fresh butter, i oz. meat glaze. Cut the game and pork into small pieces (the pork must consist of equal parts of lean and fat), pound in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade. Work in the yolks of eggs and the foie-gras (take out the pieces of truffle in the foie-gras and chop coarsely). Add the brown sauce, season to taste with pepper, salt, and aromatic seasoning, and rub the whole through a hne wire sieve. Test the consistency of the farce in some boiling water. If found too stiff add a little more sauce, if too thin add a little more panade, then stir in the chopped truffles. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff Iroth, and add to the mixture. Fill up several buttered small-sized lion moulds, shaking well, so that the farce sets well into the shapes. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven for about thirty-hve minutes. Warm up the supreme sauce, add the meat glaze, whisk in the butter, but do not let the sauce boil again. Turn out the moulds on to a hot dish. Sauce over carefully and serve. LIEVRE—HARE, ETC. Civet de Lievre a la Bordelaise [Jugged Hayc). I tender hare, i onion. 2 cloves, thyme, 2 bay-leaves, 12 small button onions (glazed), 4 oz. bacon, i oz. butter, t glass white and 4 glass red wine, pint stock, I oz. flour, seasoning, 8 croutons, and 8 Godiveau quenelles. Skin and neatly draw the hare (if there is any blood left, preserve it, mixed with a little vinegar). Preserve the liver carefully, removing the gall. Cut the hare into twelve to fourteen neat joints, place in a deep dish or jar, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sliced onion, two cloves, one sprig thyme and bay-leaves. Add the wine, let it stand for live or six hoursTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S3^ then drain the })ieces, and fry them lightl}/ in a saute-pan with the butter. Dredge with hour, stir over a brisk hre until well browned, and moisten with stock, red wine, and liquor. Fry the bacon, previously cut into dice, put with the civet when the latter boils, and simmer for about one hour. Put the small onions, previously braised, in a saucepan, and keep hot. Chop liver and heart very finely, mix with the blood (if any), and add to the stew about a quarter of an hour before it is done. Have ready some Godiveau cjuenelles and croiites of fried bread. Dish up the civet in a terrine {see illustration), adding braised onions, also the croutons and Godiveau cjuenelles, which should be ranged on top. Serve with a small dish of red-currant jelly. Mousse de Lievre {Mousse of Hare). Chop and pound i lb. of hare, free from skin and bone, add to it 3 oz. hnely chopped fried bacon and 2 oz. of ham, incorporate 3 yolks of eggs, -I- a gill of cream. Rub through a sieve and mix with sufhcient reduced Espagnole sauce to form a light farce (test it before using). Season well and fill into a buttered timbale or charlotte mould. Steam for forty-hve minutes. Serve with truftie sauce. Bordure de Lievre a I’Autrichienne [Bonier of Hare). I hare, larding bacon, a mirepoix of vegetables, 3 oz. butter, i glass claret. ■| gill cream, 4 oz. panade, about 4 oz. chestnut puree, 10 to 12 very small potato croquettes (fried), 1 pint demi-glace sauce, seasoning, meat glaze, red-currant jelly. Remove the hllets from the hare, cut them into eight nice slices, lard these with bacon, and place them in a saute-pan on a mire- ])oix, larded sides downwards, with about two ounces of butter. Season with pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper, cook in a quick oven for ten minutes, then add the wine and a little stock, and cook in the oven until quite tender (baste frequently). Put the trimmings of the hllets and enough of the meat of the hare to make ten ounces in a mortar, pound well, add gradually the panade, the cream, and a little brown sauce, season to taste, rub the whole through a hire sieve. Fill up a well-buttered border-mould, steam for one and a cjuarter hour, turn out on a hot dish, dress the hllets on the border and brush over with meat glaze. Put the chestnut puree in the centre of the dish, and upon this dress neatly the potato croquettes. To the contents of the saute-pan add the demi- glace sauce, boil for some minutes, skim and strain, reduce again, aid a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. Grenadins de Lievre ala Hanoverienne {Braised Fillets of Hare). I hare, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. streaky bacon, a glass Chablis or Sauterne wine, i pint E.spagnole sauce, a small bouquet garni, i onion stuck with 2 cloves, 2 oz. sultanas, a 2-inch stick of cinnrmon, a small bunch of parsley, i tables])Oonful red-currant jelly, .salt and pepper, croutons of fried bread, a handful of glace cherries. Remove the hllets from the hare, cut them into round slices, llatten slightly, and lard one side of them with strips of lardingENTREES OF GAME, ETC. {HOT DISHES). l^acon. Cut up the two ounces of bacon, put it in a saute-|)an with an ounce (h' butter, fry a little amt season, then put in the slices of larded hare, larded sides upwards, try lightly, add the bouquet garni and the wine, cover, and place the pan in the oven for about ten minutes. Cut the best portion cf the remainder of the hare into neat joints, fry these in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter until nicely browned, add the brown sauce, parsley, onion, cinnamon, red-currant jelly, and the sultanas, previously picked and soaked in tepid water. Cook slowly until tender, then take out the parsley, onion, cinnamon, carefully remove the fat, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Cut the glace cherries in halves, heat up in some rich gravy, and mi.x with the ragout of hare. To dish up, place each slice on a heart-shaped fried bread crouton, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Pile the ragout of hare and cherries in the centre, reduce the sauce, skim again, and pour it carefully over the meat. Serve hot. Turban de Lievre a la Bohemienne [Border of Hare). I small hare, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. liacon, i small carrot, i onion, 2 cloves, I inch cinnamon-stick, i gill well-reduced Espagnole .sauce, i glass ]iort wine, about 8 oz. panade, aromatic spice, salt, pepper, i gill demi- glace or Madere sauce, about 12 glace cherries, 18 to 24 marbles of potato croquettes. Remove the filfets of the hare, cut them into neat dice of even size. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add to it the bacon, the sliced carrot, and onion, cloves, and cinnamon, fry a little, then take out the bacon, put in the fillets, fry them over a quick fire, and finish cooking in the oven until they are quite tender. Take up the pieces of fillet and keep them hot. Fill a well-buttered border-mould with a farce made of 12 oz. hare, the bacon, panade, wine, and Espagnole sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and steam in the usual manner. W'hen done unmould on to a hot round entree dish, dress the pieces of fillet in the centre of the border. Reduce the demi-glace sauce, pour this over the whole, arrange the potato croquettes in a row on top of the border, place the cherries (cut in halves and heated in a little port or sherry) tastefully in the middle. A conple of teaspoonfuls of meat glaze or Lemco added to the farce is a great improvement. Pate de Lievre a la Cumberland [Raised Hare Pic). 1 small hare, lb. calf’s liver, 4 oz. bacon, 1 shallot, f a tlove of garlic, 2 oz. butler, seasoning, thyme and marjoram, b teaspoonful of each, I glass port wine, i egg, herbs, spoonful of red-currant jelly, a little stock. Suitable paste cru'-t. Skin, wash, joint, bone, and slice the hare. Put the carcase in a stew-pan with water, flavour with cloves, bay-leaf, and salt, skim, and cook gently for one hour. Fry the hare in the butter, take it out, add the shallot (peeled and chopped), the calf’s liver, previously sliced thinly, and two ounces of the bacon, fry for a short time and pound all in a mortar till smooth. Rub this through a wire sieve and mix with a well-beaten egg. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Line a raised pie-mould withTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 534 hot water or nouille paste, prick the bottom and sides with a fork, line the sides and bottom witli a layer of the prepared farce and thin slices of bacon, lill n}) the inonld with the fried pieces of hare. Sprinkle the powdered herbs and seasoning in between, moisten each layer with port wine and red-currant jelly, cover the top with farce, and firmly fix on the crust. Decorate with fancifully cut pieces of paste in a tasteful manner, and make an incision in the centre of the cover of crust to allow the steam to escape while cooking. Bake in a moderate oven from one and a half to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. As the pie leaves the oven pour a little well-reduced stock into it by means of a funnel. This pie is delicious hot, but, as many prefer it cold, it would be advisable to introchme some aspic jelly instead of the stock. In this case the moidd should not be removed until the pie is quite cold. Rable de Lievre a la Mode (Jugged Have). Small joints of hare or wild rabbit (fillets larded), seasoned and drained, fried in blitter and then stewed in brown sauce, with small squares of salt pork. Served with its own sauce, well reduced, and fiavoured with a little chilli vinegar. Levraiit frit a I’Orly (Fried Leveret). Boned leveret or young hare, cut into small pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce. Cotelettes de Venaison aux Marrons ( Venison Cutlets with Chestnut Puree). 4 to 6 venison cutlets, oz. butter, i egg, breadcrumbs, savoury chest- nut puree, demi-glace sauce, seasoning. Flatten and trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, beat up the egg, dip each cutlet in egg, and cover with breadcrumbs. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the cutlets, brown nicely on both sides, then take them up, drain, and dish up in a circle on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with chestnut puree, pour a little demi-glace or other thin brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Escalopes de Venaison a la Polonaise ( Venison Cutlets, Polish fashion). Cut 8 to 10 slices b an inch in thickness from a leg of venison, flatten each slice with a cutlet-bat and trim neatly. Heat up an ounce of clarified butter in a saute-pan and broil the slices over a brisk fire until they are nicely browned on both sides. Have ready a sauce prepared in the following manner : crush 12 juniper berries and cook them with b ^ ghl of wine vinegar ; to this acid a table- spoonful of meat glaze, b pint of veloutee or allemande sauce, and let simmer gently for ten to fifteen minutes. Strain the sauce, season, and whisk in b an ounce of fresh butter. Arrange the slices of venison^ in an entree dish, pour over the prepared sauce, and serve hot.ENTRIES OF GAME, ETC. (HOT DISHE.^). 535 ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER GAME ENTRe'eS. Filet de Cerf pique a la Diable.— Fillet of deer, larded and braised in the usual manner, cut into neat slices, dished up, and served with a sharp pepper sauce or sauce a la Diable. Chevreuil braise a la Saint Hubert.—Braised ])ickled venison, larded, finished in a brown sauce, flavoured with claret and cinnamon. Served with a garniture of French prunes whicli have been stewed with the meat. Cotelettes de Chevreuil a la Turque.—Venison cutlets, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with tomato puree, and garnished with fried parsley. Escalopes de Chevreuil a la Chasseur.—Escalopes or fillets of venison, cooked in butter and finished in a rich chasseur sauce, into which a little red-currant jelly has been incorporated. Longe de Chevreuil a la Puree de Tomate.—Braised loin of venison with tomato puree, mixed with a small quantity of sauce marinade. Salmi de Chevreuil A la Sultane.—Pickled venison cut into small joints and jugged in a rich brown sauce, to which a glass of port wine and picked and blanched sultanas or stoned raisins have been added. Tournedos de Chevreuil a la Milanaise.—Small venison steaks, seasoned and broiled in butter. Served with stewed macaroni as a garnish and tomato sauce. Lievre farci a la Fermiere.—Trussed boned hare, flattened, stuffed with pork forcemeat, and braised. Dish up, and serve with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely minced ham and cho}iped parsle3^ and reduced with Marsala wine. — en Cite.—Potted hare meat, prepared in tureen with sausage forcemeat and hare fillets ; moistened with Madeira wine, and covered with slices of bacon. Baked in the oven, and served hot or cold in the tureen in which it is cooked. Civet de Lievre d la Finnoise.—Pickled hare jugged, finished in demi- glace sauce, to which a small quantity of sour cream has been added. Cotelettes de Lievre a I’AUemande.—Loin of hare cut into cutlets, pared and trimmed ; season, egg, and crumb them, and fry in hot butter. Dish up and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and French gherkins. Served with white wine sauce. Escalopes de Lievre marinees.—Marinaded or pickled hare fillets or cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with sauce marinade. Filets de Lievre a la Sicilienne.—Larded fillets of hare, braised and finished in reduced Madere sauce, flavoured with cinnamon and parsley. Dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed. Florentines de Lievre.—Boned hare legs stuffed with game farce, rolled and braised in the oven in a casserole with demi-glace or garni sauce. Grenadins de Lievre.—Small fillets, larded and braised ; served with tomato or demi-glace sauce. Haricot de Lievre.—Hare cut into small joints, seasoned, fried in butter, and then stewed in brown sauce, with mushrooms and button onions. Longe de Lievre a la Soubise.—Braised loin of hare, with white onion puree and lirown game sauce.536 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Rable de Lievre a la Saint Denis.—Braised loin and neck of harc, cut into chops and cutlets, and served with truffle sauce. Terrine de Lievre a la Stephanie.—Alternate layers of potted hare, sausage meat, and hare hllets, dressed in a tureen, moistened with sherry, covered with slices of bacon, and baked in the oven ; served in the tureen. This dish may be served hot or cold. Cuissot d’Ours a la Cussy.—Boned leg of bear, marinaded or pickled, braised, and served with salmi sauce, sliced truffles, and mushrooms as garnish. Fricot d’Ours a la Chasseur.—Jugged hllets or cutlets of bear, with chasseur sauce. Jambon d’Ours braise, au Vin de Malaga.—Braised bear’s ham, with malaga or port wine sauce. Carr6 de Sanglier a la Russe.—Braised neck (jointed) of wild boar, cut into cutlets and served with a sweet sauce (orange sauce, containing picked and blanched sultanas and shredded almonds). Cuissot de Sanglier aux Cerises.—Leg or haunch of a young wild boar, braised in the usual way, adding red wine, powdered sugar, and cinnamon to flavour the sauce. Mix some glace cherries, cut in halves, with the sauce in which the meat is hnished ; cut the meat into slices, and serve with the sauced cherries as a garnish. Cuissot de Venaison a la Richemond.—Roast leg of venison larded, cut into neat slices, coated over with rcforme sauce and garnished with small fried sweet potatoes and red-currant jelly. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Gelee.—Braised mutton cutlets, pressed, trimmed, glazed, and coated with aspic, decorated with hard- boiled white and yolk of egg to imitate marguerites, then dressed on a bed of seasoned salad and garnished with chopped aspic.537 CHAPTER XXV. COLD SERVICE, COLD ENTREES, ETC. COLD COLLATION, BUFFET AND BALL SUPPER DISHES. (See also Chapter XXXII . p. 718.) SUGGESTED DECORATIONS FOR TIMBALES, DARIOLES, PARFAITS, AND MOUSSES. For these decorations truffle, hard-boiled white of egg, green peas, beetroot, pistachios, pimientos, chilli, cucumber, cooked ham or tongue, etc., may be used. All these must be cut into thin slice and be shaped in accordance with whatever design is adopted. Aspic Jelly—Gelee a 1’Aspic [For General Use in Cold Entrees). I quart veal stock or other white and fairly clear stock, i small bouquet garni consisting of parsley, tarragon, chervil, thyme, and lemon-rind, i t oz. leaf gelatine, i gill of sherry or Santerne, i gill of French wine vinegar, t lemon, 2 whites of eggs, i stick celery (washed). The stock should be cold. Remove any fat that may be on the surface. I^ut the gelatine and bouquet garni with the stock in a stew-pan. Cut the celery into small pieces, beat up the whites of eggs a little, and mix with the stock. Stir fiver a brisk fire continuously until nearly boiling, then add the wine, vinegar, and lemon-juice, and let boil up. Move the stew-pan on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag or cloth, and repeat this until perfectly clear. Keep the aspic in a basin, and use as required. During the winter months the quantity of gelatine used for aspic and cream should be rather less than that stated in the recipe, but the stiffness of aspic should in all cases be tested before being used. Another method of making aspic or savoury jelly is given on page 132. For recipes of chaud-froid sauces, see Chapter XIII,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 538 Chaud-froid or chaux-froix dishes are prepared from either fish, meat, poidtry or game. In all cases the material used for a chaud- froid must be first cooked—boiled, braised or roasted. When cold and trimmed whole or cut into portions, they are masked or coated with suitably seasoned and suitably coloured chaud-froid sauce, then decorated, and lastly coated with a thin layer of aspic. In most cases the garnishing consists of small salad, macMoine of vege- table, or some other suitable garnish. Directions and schemes for executing a large number of standard dishes, as well as the latest culinary creations of chaud-froids and other cold entrees, will be found in the following pages. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Danzig {Cold Lamb Cutlets). Best end of a neck of lamb, 2 oz. butter, i truffle, hard-boiled while of egg, I oz. tongue, i tin foie-gras, pint white chaud-froid sauce, 2 handsful cooked peas, gill aspic jelly, 2 tomatoes, mayonnaise sauce, i table- spoonful cream. Seasoning, vegetable macedoine. Trim and pare the neck neatly, cut it into small cutlets, season with pepper and salt, broil in a saute-pan with butter, and put under press until cold. Pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add tie cream and a little white sauce, moisten with sufficient aspic to make it set, then rub through a fine sieve, and mix with a little finely-chopped truffle. Trim the cutlets, cover them completely with the farce just prepared. Allow the farce to set, then mask well with chaud-froid sauce previously mixed with enough green pea puree to give it a greenish tint (a little spinach greening may be added if necessary). Ornament one side of each cutlet with some fancifully-cut pieces of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, the garnish to be set with aspic jelly ; when set dip each cutlet in half-set aspic. Have ready a small border-mould filled with a macedoine of vegetables neatly set in aspic, and dish the cutlets on it. Prepare a salad seasoned with mayonnaise composed of tomatoes, green peas, and macedoine of vegetables, fill the centre with this, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Moscovienne {Lamb Cutlets). 1 neck of lamb, i quart aspic, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped green mint, i pint macedoine of vegetables, i gill of stiff tartare sauce, i hard-boiled egg, 2 slices of tongue, i large truffle, seasoning. Trim the best end of the neck of lamb, season and braise it in the usual manner. When cold trim neatly and cut into cutlets. Dissolve a pint of aspic, add a pinch of sugar, and pour into a saute-pan. When partly set mix in the chopped mint. Place the cutlets in the pan about half an inch apart from each other, and cover with the remainder of the aspic jelly. Then place on the ice to set. Mask a border-mould with aspic, decorate sides with fanci- fully cut slices of truffles and tongue, cooked peas, beans, and hard-boiled white of egg. Mix the macedoine of vegetables with sufficient liquid aspic to make it set when cold, season with tartare sauce, add any pieces of truffle, tongue, and hard-boiled egg which may be left over. Coat the border-mould with a second layer of539 COLD ENTRl'iES. aspic, and when this is thoroughly set partly fill the cavity with the dressed macedoine, iinish nj) with a layer of aspic, and turn ont on a round dish when quite set. Cat or stamp ont the cutlets, dish them up cn couronne on the aspic border. Heap up the re- mainder of dressed macedoine in the centre, finish with a few leaves of lettuce or endive, and serve. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Renaissance. 8 or 9 lamb cutlets, 6 oz. calf’s liver, 2 oz. butter, 12 preserved mushrooms, 4 oz. bacon, I small onion, I- pint aspic cream (p, 147), 3 tablespoonfuls tomato pulp, salt, nutmeg, aromatic spice, aspic jelly, salad for garnish. Trim, fry, drain, and press the cutlets. Slice the liver, bacon, and onion, and fry in the saute-pan containing the butter left over from the cutlets. Pound well, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and spice, and rnb through a fine sieve. Return this to a basin and add the chopped mushrooms, and enough tomato (about two tablespoonfuls) to moisten the farce. Cover one side of each cutlet with this farce, smooth it well with the blade of a knife. Mix the aspic cream (liquefied) with about a tablespoonful of tomato pulp, season to taste, and coat the covered side of each cutlet with this sauce just as it begins to set. Place the masked cutlets on a wire tray on the ice. \Vhen set, dress the cutlets in the form of a crown on a round or oval dish. Adjust a paper ruffle on each cutlet bone, fill the centre of the dish with a nicely dressed green salad, and serve. Chaud-froid de Cotelettes d’Agneau (Lamb Cutlets). 1 best end of neck of lamb, carrot, -1- turnip, i onion, i small bunch of herbs, pint stock, i glass sherry, -} pint aspic, 4 leaves gelatine, gill cream, i gill velontee or bechamel sauce, -t gill tomato puree, salt, pepper, salad for centre. Trim, pare, and braise the neck of lamb, when cold divide into cutlets, trim, and pare them neatly, and coat with the following sauce ; Melt the gelatine and strain into the hot white sauce, add rather more than half the aspic, divide this in two lots, mixing one with tomato puree and the other with the cream, season to taste, and pass both separately through a tammy cloth. Coat half the cutlets with the white sauce and the others with the red sauce. Dish up the cutlets when set (en couronne) ; fill up the centre of the dish with seasoned salad. Noisettes d’Agneau a la Pompadour {Lainh Fillets). 2 lb. leg of lamb (kernel part), | lb. calf’s liver, foie-gras farce, 2 oz. butter, mirepoi-x, gill tomato puree, ]- gill Madere sauce, bottle finan- ciere garniture, i gill artichoke puree, 3 truffles, seasoning, pint aspic, 6 olives stuffed, ^ pint cooked green peas, gill mayonnaise, tomato and beetroot or pimiento salad as garnish for centre. Cut the meat crossways into slices, flatten them a little, and shape into neat oval fillets. Season with salt and pepper, and cook in butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire. Take up and place the slices under press. Prepare the farce, first tossing the calf’s liver in a mirepoix of bacon, etc., and then pound with the foie-gras. Add a little tomato puree, and then rub through a fine sieve. After incorporating a little aspic, spread the surface of the cooked, pressed, and trimmed lamb fillets, smooth over540 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. neatly with a knife dipped in hot water. When set, glaze over with aspic and meat glaze, pnt a small piece of cock’s comb in the centre of each, and keep on the ice till wanted. Mask thinly with aspic the same number of small flat round cassolette pans, sprinkle them with finely chopped truffle, then line with a row of green peas, and next with a la}^er of pea puree mixed with a little mayonnaise and aspic. Prepare a salpicon of financiere, cut into fine shreds, moistened with a little Madere sauce fortified with aspic and cutlet (‘ssence, and fill up the prepared moulds with this. Prepare the artichoke puree, also fortified with aspic, pour into a flat mould, and when set stamp out into ovals the same size as the meat fillets. Arrange these as basis with the fillets in the form of a crown or border on an entree dish, unmould the small round shapes, and place one on the top of each fillet, surmounting each with half a stuffed olive and a sprig of chervil or parsley, or, if preferred, serve the aspic shapes on a separate dish. Fill the centre of the dish with a salad composed of the remainder of peas and truffles, peeled and sliced tomatoes, and strips of pimiento or beetroot, suitably seasoned with mayonnaise. The dish is then ready to serve. Ris d’Agneau a la Sevigne [Lambs’ Sweetbreads in Cases). Parboil, trim, and braise the breads with a mirepoix flavoured with a glass of Madeira. Take them up and press each into round pastry rings about the size of the breads. Cover with a well- reduced Villeroi sauce, to which a sufficient quantity of aspic or dissolved gelatine has been added to make it fairly firm. When quite set remove the breads from the rings, and place them in paper souffle or ramakin cases. Decorate the top of each with thin slices of truffles cut into pretty shapes, and mask with aspic jelly. Force some cold green pea puree round the edge of each sweetbread, and serve. A little mixed salad can, if liked, be put at the bottom of each case before the sweetbreads are placed in. A boat of green moTisseline sauce should be handed round with this dish. Bonnes Douches de Ris d’Agneau. 1 pint green peas, 2 pairs lambs’ breads, t- pint vclontee .sauce, gill cream, 2 egg-yolks, i trntlle, 6 mushrooms, seasoning, i oz. bnlter, mircpoi.K for braising lambs’ breads, aspic and tongue. Cook, drain, and pass the peas through a fine sieve. Heat up the pea puree with the butter, a little cream, and a gill of veloutee sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and bind with the yolks of eggs. Line the inside of six to eight small dariole moulds with the puree, and fill the centre with a salpicon of lambs’ breads, made as follows : Blanch, trim, and braise the breads in the usual manner, cut up into small dice, and mix with six preserved mushrooms, trimmings of truffle, and moisten with veloutee sauce. Cover the moulds thus filled with a layer of pea puree, poach them for twenty minutes, unmould, let cool, place a ring of truffle on top of each, and a star of beetroot or pimiento, and then mask the whole with aspic. Dish up, and garnish with cress or small salad.541 COLD ENTREES. Ris d'Agneau en Caisses, Pont Neuf. Soak for two hours, then blanch, pare, press, and braise eight small lambs’ breads, and let them cool. Make a demi-glace sauce flavoured with the reduced liquor from the braise, and add enough aspic to set it. Trim the breads to the size and shape of the souffle cases used, china or silver cases are best for this purpose. Make a rich ragoat of artichoke bottoms, cut in fine shreds and seasoned with mayonnaise cream. Put a small tablespoonfnl of this into each of the souffle cases. Upon this place a lamb’s bread. Put the case on the ice for a few minutes, then pour over just enough of the prepared demi-glace sauce to almost cover the breads. Again })ut them on the ice to set the sauce. Put a fancifully-cut slice of truffle in the centre of each bread, decorate round the edges with green peas, and lastly coat with a layer of well-flavoured aspic jelly. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Vallorbes {Mutton Cutlets). 3 lb. best end neck of mutton, 4 lb. liver farce (p. 178), 8 leaves gelatine, I gill aspic jelly. 4 pint tomato sauce, pint bechamel sauce, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; salad of shredded celery and truffles mingled with tartare sauce for the centre. Trim and braise the neck in the usual way. Prepare the li\’cr farce as directed. Let the meat cool, then cut it into cutlets, trim them, season with jiciiper and salt, and cover one side with a thin layer of liver,farce. Dissolve the gelatine and incor- jforate with the sauces, thus allowing four leaves for the tomato sauce and four leaves for the bechamel sauce. W’hen sufficiently cool, coat the covered sides of half the cutlets with white sauce and the remainder with tomato sauce. Keep on the ice until quite set, then coat with a thin layer of aspic. Dish up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes mixed with an equal quantity of mashed green peas, put the dressed salad in the centre of the chsh, place frills on the cutlet bones, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Pompadour. This dish is made exactly the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, with the exception of the centre, which consists of a plain salad decoration in place of celery and truffles. Filets de Boeuf a la Madrid {Cold Fillets of Beef). 2I lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, i small onion, i small carrot, i small turnip, I bay-leaf, 6 peppercorns, i sprig of thyme, i sprig of marjoram, meat glaze, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, l tablespoonful horse-radish mustard, grated liorse-i'adish, mayonnaise cream, salt and pepper, i gill of aspic jelly, water-cress. Free the fillet from skin and superfluous fat, cut it into about half-inch slices, flatten each slice by means of a cutlet-bat, and trim neatly. Prepare the vegetables, and cut into slices. Melt the butter in a saute-pan. M'hen hot put in the vegetables, the bay-leaf, peppercorns, and herbs, fry a golden colour nvev a quick lire, put in the fillets, brown them nicely on both sides, but leave them rather underdone, add jiepper and salt, place them on a wire tray, and at once brush them over with licj^uefied meat glaze, ^^ffienS42 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. quite cold, coat them with mayonnaise cream into which a table- spoonful of horse-radish mustard has been incorporated. Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, remove the skin, cut them into slices, and place a slice of tomato on each fillet. Mask them with half- set aspic jelly, dish up on a round dish in the form of a border, put a little scraped horse-radish in the centre of each fillet, garnish with chopped aspic, and watercress, and serve. Filets Mignons en Chaud-froid [Chaud-froid of Fillets of Beef). 2i- to 3 lb. middle cut of fillet of beef, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 chopped shallots, i pint brown chaud-froid sauce, } pint aspic jelly, i truffle, i hard- boiled egg, salt and pepper, i pint preserved fiageofets, parsley, etc., mashed potatoes, cream. Free the hllet from skin and fat, cut it crossways into slices about half an inch thick, flatten each slice of hllet with a wetted cutlet-bat, trim them into neat rounds of even size, and stud each hllet with short strips of larding bacon. Melt the butter in a large saute-pan, and fry the shallots lightly, put in the hllets and fry, leaving them underdone. Season, press, and trim neatly. When cold, mask them completely with brown chaud-froid sauce, let the sauce set, garnish one side (top portion) with a rosette of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, cover them with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and put them on a tray on the ice. Drain the hageolets, rub tliem through a sieve, season this with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg, and mix with a little slightly whipped cream. Arrange a small bed of mashed potatoes on an oblong silver dish, arrange the hllets in a row in the centre. Pipe a neat border of puree round each hllet. Ornament the sides of the dish with the puree, in the shape of rosettes, and some hnely-chopped aspic. Serve as an entree for dinner or as a supper dish. Filet de Boeuf a la Ravigote [Fillet of Beef, Ravigote Style). Trim, skin, and lard 2 or 3 lbs. of hllet of beef, braise it in the usual manner, and allow it to get cold. Make a puree with a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, i tablespoontul of capers, 3 boned anchovies, i gherkin, 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks, i chopped shallot, I tablespoonful of spinach green, and 2 oz. butter. When well pounded rub through a sieve, and season to taste. Dish up the hllet of beef, which may be previously cut into slices, put a little of the green puree on each side, garnish with halves of tomatoes filled with mayonnaise and scraped horse-radish, chopped olives, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Decorate the meat tastefully with the remainder of green butter, and the sides of the dish with set aspic cut into triangles, and serve. Filet de Boeuf a la Javanaise [Fillet of Beef, Javanaise Style). Trim a piece of hllet of beef (centre cut, weighing about four pounds), wrap it in thin slices of larding bacon, and place in a braising-pan on a mirepoix, bacon, onion, carrot, herbs, celery, etc., and braise in the usual way in the oven till done. Take up, remove the bacon, glaze it well, and let it get cold. Dress543 COLD SERVICE DISHES. the hllet (whole) on a crouton of bread on an oblong dish, garnish the sides with halves of hard-boiled eggs hlled with mace- doine salad, and halves of tomatoes hlled with tartare dressing. Decorate the top of the hllet with grated horse-radish and parsley. Serve as cold remove for dinner or as a supper or luncheon dish. Galantine de Boeuf [Galantine of Beef). i] lb. lean beef, 1- lb. bacon, i gill stock, 2 eggs, 0 oz. breadcrumbs, aromatic seasoning, pepper and salt to taste. Cut the beef and bacon very small, put it into a basin with the breadcrumbs and seasoning. Beat the eggs and stock together, pour into the other ingredients, and mix rvell. Shape into a short roll (galantine), tie in a pudding-cloth, and boil for two and a half hours. Press slightly until cold, and glaze neatly and garnish to taste. Boeuf Presse [Pressed Beef). Brisket or thin flank of beef should be used. Procure a piece weighing from six to eight pounds. Mix together six ounces coarse salt, half ounce saltpetre, four ounces moist sugar, a teaspoonful ground mace and nutmeg, half-teaspoonful ground cloves, half- teaspoonful pepper, and half-teaspoonful mustard. Rub this thoroughly into the meat after it is wiped and pricked, put it in an earthenware pan, cover, and let stand in a cool place for at least twenty-four hours. Rub in the above-named mixture three or four times each twenty-four hours. In five or six days the meat will be ready for cooking. Put in a stew-pan a peeled onion stuck with two cloves, a scraped carrot, a peeled turni}), a small bouquet of A DISH OF PRESSED BEEF. herbs—i.c. parsley-root, bayleaf, thyme, and marjoram —half a leek and a piece of celery ; half hll it with water and boil up. Mean- while skewer the meat, tie it with string to keep it in good shape. Place it in the seasoned water and bring to the boil. Remove theS44 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. scum and let simmer gently for about three hours or till the meat is tender. Skim the stock occasionally. Take up the meat and press it for about twelve hours between two weighted boards. Trim the meat neatly with a sharp knife, place on a wire tray, and glaze it twice with dissolved meat glaze, allowing the hrst coating to set before the next is added. Dish up, and decorate it with slices of aspic, or chopped aspic, parsley, etc.; insert, if liked, a silver skewer. Langue de Boeuf a la Gelee {Ox-Tongue with Jelly). Procure a good-sized pickled or salted ox-tongue, soak it for a few hours in cold water, trim it, and cook it till tender in the stock- pot or, failing this, in seasoned water containing a small bunch of savoury herbs. The tongue must cook or simmer slowly—it will require from two and a half to three hours. Remove the scum as it rises to the surface. When done take it up and plunge it into cold water for a few seconds, then remove the skin carefully and trim the tongue. Place it in an upright position on a board and fix it thus with two forks through the front portion so as to keep it in good shape. Prush it over twice or three times with liquefied meat glaze, into which a little caramel may be added if it is not dark enough. Place tlie tongue on an oblong dish, decorate the sides witli creamed butter, forced out through a forcing-bag. Slices of set aspic or savoury jelly should be placed on top of the tongue. Put some chopped aspic round the base of the dish, also some sprigs of parsley. A silver skewer, replete with a nice truffle, preserved mushroom or firm tomato inserted in the root end of the tongue will enhance its appearance. Boar’s Head* {Huye de Sanglier). Slit the head down the throat, cut round and remove the bones, rub well with a mixture of lb. of salt, i oz. of saltpetre, 4 oz. of brown sugar, and aromatic spice. Let it remain in the brine for al)out a week, turning it daily, then wash, drain, and dry well with a cloth. Lay the head on a board, trim the thick parts, place the parings over the thin peirts to form a fairly level surface, and season well. Have ready a meat farce made of equal quantities of veal and j)ork, pounded and seasoned to taste, spread a thick layer inside the head, add strips of cooked ox-tongue, whole truffles, and peeled pistachio kernels. Cover with more farce, and strips of tongue. When the head is well filled, sew iqi the opening with twine, press it into its original shape, wrap it in a cloth, and tie securely. Cook slowly in stock from 3 to 4 hours or until it can be easily pierced with a fork. Take it up and drain. When cold, glaze well with strong liquefied meat glaze, decorate tastefully with aspic jelly and creamed butter, aud, if possible, insert glass eyes and tusks. Dish up and garnish with parsley. * Pickled pigs’ heads are often used in place of real boars’ heads, the mode of preparation being practically the same as that above described.COLD ENTREES. 545 Petits Souffles glaces a I’Ecarlate {()x4onguc Souffles) \ lb. cooked ox-toiigue, i shallot, i pint gooil brown sauce, i bouquet garni, tomato, I oz. gelatine, i gill cream, i slice of trullle, 2 table- spoonfuls sherry, 1 gill aspic jelly, cochineal, seasoning, 8 small souffle cases. Chop the shallot hnely, )nit it in a ste\v-j)aii with the sherry, reduce a little, then add the tomat(t cut in slices, the sauce and bouquet garni, cook together lor ten ininntes or longer, and strain. Dissolve the gelatine, and add the abcn’c whilst hot. Cut the tongue into small pieces, jiound in a mortar till smooth. Add a little of the sauce and the cream, mix well, and rub thnmgh a line sieve. Whisk the brown preparation on the ice or a cold place until it becomes spongy, then add the pnree, season to taste, and colour with a few drops of cochineal to give it the desired tint. Fill the souffle cases, previously fastened with small jiaper bands, about half an inch above the cases, with the mixture. Freeze in a charged ice-cave for about an hour, garnish the surface with fanciful cuts of truffle or white of egg, mask well with a layer of aspic, and return to the ice-cave. Before serving remove the bands, and sprinkle the sides with panurette. Petites Langues a I’Espagnole {Ox~tonguc Shapes). 1 lb. cooked o.x-tongue, 3 oz. cooked chicken or veal, V gill Espagnole sauce, I glass sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 4 oz. French leaf gelatine, a few drops liquid carmine, white pepper and nutmeg, 1 pint cookctl macMoine of vegetables, about 4 pint as})ic jelly, -4 oz. meat glaze. Soak the gelatine, boil up with the sauce and sherry, reduce a little, and strain. Cut the tongue and chicken, or veal, into small pieces, put in a mortar and pound till smooth. Add the sauce and cream, mixed thoroughly, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, colour with a few drops of the carmine, and rub through a sieve. Put the mixture into eight or ten little tongue-moulds, and set on the ice. Mask a small bombe or other suitable mould with aspic, and decorate the sides tastefully with little stars of cooked carrot, turnip, etc. (macedoine). Season the remainder of mace- doine to taste, mix with aspic jelly, put it into the mould when it begins to set, and till up with aspic. Turn out on to a cold dish when set. Turn out the little moulds, brush them over with meat glaze, previously mixed with a tablespoonful of aspic jelly. Arrange the little tongues round the macedoine shape, point upwards. Decorate neatly with chopped aspic jelly, and a few small sprigs of parsley between and ronnd the tongues, and serve. Cotelettes de Veau froides {Cold Veal Cutlets). Cut as many cutlets from the neck of a small calf as necessary, trim and pare each neatly, season with salt and pepper, fry in blitter, drain on a cloth, and let them get cold. Cut as many thin slices of cooked ham as there are cutlets, and of the same size as the cutlets, place one on each with a fancifnlly-cut slice of truffle in the centre of the ham. Place them on a wire tray and mask over well with one or two layers of well-reduced aspic jelly into which a glass of IMadeira wine has been incorporated. Dish MMTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 546 up tastefully, and garnish the centre with a tomato or celery salad. Note.—If the cutlets from the neck are found too large, which is frequently the case in this country, use cushion or leg part known here as “ fillet,” and cut into conveniently-shaped slices, flatten and shape them, and cook as above directed. Chartreuse de Filets de Veau a la Crecy. I lb. lean veal free from skin and sinews, i oz. butter, i lemon, 2 truffles, I small bunch new carrots, cooked, i pimiento or beetroot, -I x’int aspic, I oz. meat glaze, i gill Esjmgnole, i glass marsala, cocks’ combs and kernels, 3 sheets gelatine, oil, vinegar, chopped parsley. Cut the veal into rather thin but even-sized slices, and pare them into cutlet shapes or small fillets. Streak them with semi- circles of traffie graduated in size, and place them carefully in a saute-pan with ^ oz. of melted butter. Season lightly with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with lemon-juice. Cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven. When done, take up and let them remain on a sieve until cool. Place a cylindrical mould in a pan or crushed ice, coat the sides and bottom with a layer of aspic, and decorate the sides with an even chain of rounds of sliced truffle, pimiento or beetroot, and carrot, alternating the colours. When quite set, dip the decorated fillets of veal in half-set aspic and arrange them round the sides of the mould. Heat up the sauce, reduce with the meat glaze or Lemco and wine, season to taste, stir in a little aspic, and the gelatine previously dissolved and strained, and let cool. To this add sufficient cocks’ combs and kernels, trimmings of truffle, and a few sliced carrots, to fill the mould. Leave it on ice to set for about an hour. Prepare a saladCOLD ENTREES. 547 with the carrots, left whole or cut into^quarters, to which a little shredded beetroot or pimiento caii^be added. Mix with oil and vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Unmonld the shape on to a cold entree dish, arrange the salad neatly in the centre cavity, decorate with a few' sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Cotelettes de Veau en Chaud-froid {Chaud-fruid of Veal Cutlets). Prepare eight small veal cutlets of even size, trim, pare, and flatten them a little. Stud each with a few strips of larding bacon and tongue, and place them in a braising-pan with a mirepoix, add seasoning, an ounce of butter, a few slices of sfreaky bacon, half a pint of white stock, and a gill of white w'ine, Sauterne or Hock. Cover, cook in the oven for one hour, basting occasionally. Press till cold, trim them again, scrape the bones quite clean, and mask each cutlet with a layer of aspic cream or white chaud-froid sauce (p. 144), when this is set, repeat the operation. Decorate one side of each cutlet w'ith slices of truffle. Mask them with aspic jelly and put them on the ice. Fix a crouton of bread, column- shape, in the centre of a round dish ; decorate it with green herb butter, and arrange the cutlets round it. Garnish w'ith small salad, and serve. Filets de Veau a la Caroline {Veal Fillets, Cayoline Style). I .' lb. neck of veal (best end), 2 oz. raw ham. mirepoix, i oz. butter, i gill stock, i-l- gill veloutee sauce, i teaspoonful yellow curry powder, seasoning, 1 gill firm aspic, 6 oz. ox-tongue, pimientos, 6 oz. Carolina rice cooked in curry, flavoured stock, silver hatelet decorated with mushroom head, truftie, etc., chopped aspic for garnish. Bone the veal and cut it into seven or eight slices, trim into heart-shaped hllets, season them and braise in the butter, mirepoix, and ham. Moisten with stock, w'hen done press them, and pare w'hen cold. Prepare a chaud-froid sauce, flavoured with curry, and coat the fillets with this. Cut the tongue into slices, and shape them neatly. Mix the cooked rice with a little aspic, and fill a border-mould and a bombe-mould with it. Unmould w'hen cold, and dress on a round dish, arrange the fillets, after being decorated with red pimientos and truffle, round the border, with alternate slices of tongue, mask with aspic, and fix the hatelet in the centre. Cotes de Veau a la Marguerite. I lb. lean veal (fillet), a mirepoi.x of bacon, carrot, turnip, onion and bouquet garni, 4 lemon, i oz. butter, aspic, white chaud-froid sauce, 2 eggs, i trulile, tarragon leaves, celery, and ham for garnish. Cut the veal into rather thin fillets or slices, flatten them a little, arrange them in a well-buttered saute-pan containing the mire- poix, which must be cut small. Melt the butter and pour it over the top, season to taste, cover, and cook quickly in the oven for about twenty minutes, then add the juice of 4 lemon, and continue to cook till the meat is tender. Take up the slices, place them under press till cold, then cut them into neeit rounds or ovals, and coat them with a layer of chaud-froid sauce, which must be richlvTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 548 lUivoured with veal essence and cream. Cook the whites of eggs in a timbale mould. When cold, cut into slices, and then into ^Marguerite shajies, with a dot of trullle in the centre of each. Place them on the veal hllets, also tarragon leaves, and thin cucumber rind, to form the stalk. Coat the whole with thin aspic. Dress on a dish containing a layer of set aspic, and garnish with heaps ol tinely-shredded celery and cooked ham. Noix de Veau a la Viart [Cold Remove or Relcve). I small cushion or kernel part of veal, larding bacon, and lean ham lor larding and basting purposes, mirepoix of bacon, carrots, onion, and herbs, I small glass white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), i pint rich stock, 3-4 sheets of gelatine. Cooked, braised, and glazed chestnuts, small carrots, and cardoons or celery. For garnish: green herb butter, ^ gill tomato puree, I gill mayonnaise sauce. Trim and pare the meat, removing the skin and sinews, then insert in two neat rows on the surface strips of larding bacon and ham. Cover with a few thin slices of fat bacon or larding bacon, and tie this with string. Have ready a good mirepoix in a braising- ])an, containing about an ounce of butter. When hot, place in the prepared meat on top, and cook in a sharp oven for about twenty minutes, then add the wine and stock, also some savoury herbs, including half a bay-leaf and two cloves. Cover the pan, and cook till the meat is tender, basting it occa- sionally. Take up t If e meat, remove the larding bacon, and glaze over slightly, then let it get cool. Skim the gravy, free it from fat, then strain it and reduce it to about one-third of its volume ; lastly add the gelatine, previously dissolved. As the sauce cools, coat with it the meat; when set, place it on a suitable dish. Have ready the chestnuts and vegetables for garnish ; these may be glazed with the remainder of the liquor left over from the meat, enriched with a little meat glaze. Range these neatly in groups round the base of the dish. Decorate the side or in between the vegetables with herb butter. Fill four small glazed paste cassolettes with green peas, and place them round the meat. Insert hfitelet in the centre on aspic. Mix the two sauces, tomato and mayonnaise, adding, if found necessary, a little lemon or lime-jui('e, and hand this round in a sauce-boat wlnu serving the joint.COLD ENTRl'LES. 549 Supreme de Veau a I’Aspic (Supreme of Veal). Aljout lb. cushion of veal, i oz. butler, i glass of sherry, J pint chaud- froid sauce, about 4 oz. ravigote, 8 thin slices of truffles, 2 round socles of rice, 2 slices of fat bacon, aspic jelly for garnir-h, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a'small wax figure for centre. Prepare 9 or 10 heart-shaped slices of even size, lard them, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, tmd grated nutmeg, moisten with the sherry, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. When cold mask them well with white chaud-froid sauce, put them aside to set. Of cooked rice form a round shape about hve inches in diameter, and one-and-a-half inch high, also a smaller round about two inches in diameter, and two inches high, and place on the ice to set. Place the larger round on a dish, cover with ravigote butter, put the smaller round in the centre of the large socle, cover also with butter, and ornament the sides according to fancy. Coat the fillets with half-set aspic jelly, and when set dish them in a circle on the socle of rice, with a slice of trufile between the fillets. Place a wa.\ figure, if possible in the shape of a small vase, on top, fill it with chopped aspic, and garnish the round dish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly. Note.—Fillets of chicken, pigeons, or pheasant can be prepared in the same way. Roulade a la Norvegienne (Norwegian Galantine). I small breast of veal, i lb. lean beef, lb. bacon (streaky), 6 oz. soft bread (Vienna or rolls) soaked in milk, f oz. truffle peelings, i egg, i teaspoouful aromatic spice, i dessertspoonful chopped pansley and herbs, i gill stock, salt, brown chaud-froid sauce, meat glaze, aspic jelly for garnish. Bone the breast of veal, trim, pare, and flatten. Chop the beef and bacon rather finely, and put both in a basin with the bread well squeezed out, spice, truffles, parsley, and sufticient salt to taste. Mix well, moisten with the stock and egg. Lay the breast, boned side up, flat on a board, season with salt and pepper, spread the above preparation on it, roll up, tie in a pudding-cloth, boil in the stock-pot or salted water for two and a half to three hours. Take up, press lightly till cold. Pare neatly, coat well with brown chaud-froid sauce well blended with meat glaze. Trim when set, dish up, and garnish with aspic and creamed butter. Mousselines de Ris de Veau a la Harlequin. Line eight small oval-shaped entree moulds of suitable shape with a thin layer of aspic. Decorate the bottom of each with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg in mosaique pattern, when set mask the inside of the moulds completely with a thin layer of aspic cream. When this is fairly Arm, nearly fill the moulds with cube-shaped pieces of cold braised sweetbreads, shredded lean hani, green peas, and truffle, the latter also cut in shreds. Before being put into the moulds, season and moisten the mixture carefully with mayonnaise. Next a good layer of aspic cream on top, so as to completely fill each mould, which are then placed in the ice and550 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. allowed to set. \\dien required for table unmould them carefully, range the shapes round a neatly - decorated foie-gras mousse, placed in the centre of a round entree dish, which is then ready to serve. The Foie-gras Mousse is made with 6 oz. of foie-gras pate, pounded with 2 oz. of cooked ham or tongue, sieved, and mixed MOUSSELINES DE KIS DE VEAU A LA HARLEQUIN. with I gill as})ic, and \ gill whipped cream, ft is then seasoned with aromatics and whisked over the ice till half-set, and subse- (piently poured into a prepared bombe mould. To prepare the latter mask the inside of a bombe or column mould with a thin layer of aspic, and decorate with long triangular-cut slices of truffle or tongue, arranged alternately so as to effect a harmonising symmetrical design. Now coat the decorated part with a thin layer of mayon- naise or aspic cream, and when set lill up the mould with the prepared mousse mixture, Ris de Veau a la Biarritz {Sweetbreads, Biarritz Style). I large or 2 medium sized heart sweetbreads, 3 to 4 slices fat bacon, i bouquet of herbs, i carrot, i ouioa, J oz. butter, J pint well-reduced veal or chicken stock, i gill tomato sauce, \ pint veloutee sauce, \ gill aspic jelly, -2- gill white wine, -1 oz. gelatine, i truffle, i or 2 red chillies, 4 oz. best rice for socle, pepper and salt. Blanch and trim the sweetbreads. Put the butter in a deep saute-pan, slice and add the vegetables, bouquet of herbs, put the sweetbreads on top, season with pepper and salt, cover with5 5 I CO/./) ENTRfiES. the slices of bacon, moisten with the stock and wine, })ut on a lid, and cook in a moderate oven from thirty to thirty-live minutes. Baste frequently, adding a little more stock if needed. When cooked take up, let cool, and cut into quarter-inch slices. W'arm up the tomato and veloutee sauce, add to it the strained liquor from the sweetbreads, dissolve the gelatine in a little water or stock, and strain into the sauce, which should be of a pale pink colour, add a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal if necessary. Strain the sauce into a basin, when cool mask both sides of the slices of sweetbread with it. Decorate one side of each slice with crown or star shapes of truffle and chilli skin. Fix the garnish with aspic, and when set mask over the whole with a thin layer of aspic jelly. On a cold silver dish have ready a socle or flat border of cooked rice, coated with the remainder of sauce and aspic, on it dress the prepared slices of sweetbread on the border, and serve as a cold entree for luncheon, dinner, or ball supper. Ris de Veau a I’Amiral (Chaud-froid of Sweetbread). Blanch, trim, and cook two or three nice heart sweetbreads in well-flavoured white stock till tender. When done, wrap them in a clean cloth and press them lightly between two boards. Ha\*e ready a white chaud-froid sauce, cut the sweetbreads into neat oval slices of even size, and mask each well with the chaud-froid sauce, decorate one side of each tastefully with thin slices of truffle (cut into fancy shapes). Prepare beforehand a daintily-decorated border of aspic, using plenty of vegetables for garnishing it. When set, turn out on a dish and dress the prepai'ed sweetbread slices round the border. Fill the centre with a richly-dressed prawn salad —i.e. a salad composed of lettuce, endive, prawns, and dressing. Ris de Veau a la St. Michel [Sweetbread, St. Michael Style). 2 heart sweetbreads, i terrine foie-gras, 2 truffles, mirepoix, etc., 6 to 8 cooked artichoke bottoms. Blonde chaud-froid sauce, macedoine of vegetaffles, mayonnaise, aspic, and seasoning. Blanch, trim, and press the sweetbreads. Insert some strips of bacon, and braise them with a mirepoix, etc. When cool, cut each in two lengthwise, and stamp out as many rounds of sweetbread as there are artichoke bottoms, and as near as possible to the size of the latter. Incorporate the essence of sweetbread with the chaud-froid sauce, and mask the rounds of sweetbread with the sauce as it cools. Stamp out some round slices of foie-gras some- wfflat smaller than the sweetbread, place these in the centre of the latter, and coat them also with chaud-froid sauce. Trim the artichoke bottoms, season them with aspic flavoured with lemon- juice, place the sweetbread on these. Stamp out star-shaped slices of truffle, and put one on each of the tops of foie-gras. Mask the whole with half-set aspic, and dish up in a circle on a round dish. Season the macedoine of vegetables with a little mayonnaise and aspic, and arrange in the shape of a dome in the centre of the dish. Garnish suitably and serve,552 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Supreme de Ris de Veau a la Reine [Supreme of Sweetbreads). 2 large sweetbreads, i small bundle tine green asparagus (cooked), larding bacon, mirepoix (veal, bacon, onion, carrot, bay-leaf, bouquet), \ gill veal stock, gill white wine, i gill velontee sauce, seasoning, aspic cream. Soak the sweetbread in cold water for at least an hour, then blanch, cool, and press it. Trim it, stud with truffle and larding bacon, and braise in the usual manner (ses “Ris de Veau a la Biarritz”). Add the veloutee sauce to the liquor in the braising-pan, boil up, skim, and cook for about ten minutes. Add enough cream to give it a white colour, then strain. Mask the interior of a plain charlotte or large timbale mould with aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom with thin, fancifully-cut slices of truffle, and the sides with cooked cold asparagus, which must be hxed closely against each other. Rub the soft part of the remaining asparagus through a sieve, and stir it into the prepared sauce. Add 2 leaves of dissolved and strained French gelatine, also | of a gill of aspic. Cut the sweetbread into slices and fill the mould by setting each layer in sauce, the first and last layers being of sauce. Place the mould on the ice or in some cold place until set. When required for table, unmould and turn on a round dish with folded napkin or dish paper. Timbale de Ris de Veau a la Reine [Cold Sweetbread Timbale). I cooked sweetbread (braised), 2 truffles, 4 oz, cooked ham, lean, 8 pre- served mushrooms, i slice ox-tongue, pint aspic jelly, it gill aspic cream, I dessertspoonful meat glaze or Lemco, seasoning, -t glass sherry. Mask a plain fimbale mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and decorate the sides and bottom with thin slices of tongue and truffle as shown in the illustration. Cut the sweetbread into cube shapes, the ham and the remainder of the tongue and the mush-553 COLD ENTREES rooms into Ime strips, put these in a basin and pour o\’er the wine, also a little aspic-made liquid and mixed with the meat glaze. Now mask the inside of the prepared mould with a coating of aspic cream. Mix the remainder of aspic cream with an equal quantity of aspic jelly and pour over the sweetbread, etc. Stir this gently on the ice. When it begins to set, fill the mould with it, and allow the shape to set on the ice. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a few seconds and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Chop some set aspic jelly, and put a little round the base of the dish. Petites Croustades a la Milanaise. r lb. puff-paste, 6 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 1- pint aspic jelljf, i gill cream, i-J- gill tomato aspic (p. 142), 2 oz. cooked ham or smoked ham sausage, pepper, salt, and cayenne, i-l- teaspoonful mixed mustard. Roll out the paste thinly, stamp out six or eight rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, two inches in diameter, place these on a baking-sheet, brush over with water, sprinkle with parmesan, bake in a quick oven till a golden colour, and let them cool. Melt the aspic jelly, when cooling add the remainder of grated cheese and the seasoning, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne, stir well, and mix in the cream previously wdripped, and the ham, finely chopped. Have ready six or eight very small plain dariole moulds, coat the inside well with a layer of tomato aspic, decorate with a few tarragon and chervil leaves, when set, fill up the moulds with the prepared cream, put on the ice for at least an hour, then turn out. Place the darioles on the baked pastry, decorate the sides with whipped cream, dish up, and serve. Mousse de Jambon [Cold Ham Motisse). J lb. lean cooked ham. -} pint Espagnole sauce, i gill aspic jelly, i-J- gill cream, i- oz. gelatine, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Take the lining of a silver-plated souffle case, tie round it a band of tvhite paper to support the mousses or souffles, which should have a risen appearance, and to obtain this the mould must be over- filled ; pound ham and sauce together in a mortar, and rub through a wire sieve. Put the aspic into a basin and whisk it till it becomes light and frothy, whip up the cream and stir it b}^ degrees into the pounded mixture, season well, then strain into it + oz. gelatine dissolved in a little stock, and a few drops of cannine to give a nice pink colour, and, lastly, the whisked aspic, which makes it light and frothy. Turn into prepared mould and put on the ice to set. When firm enough, garnish with chives and chopped truffles, and pour a layer of half-set aspic over the top, allow to set, remove band of paper, slip the mousse into the outer souffle case, and it is ready to serve. Timbales de Jambon a la Bayonne en Gelee. Proceed the same as directed for “ Petites Chartreuses an Jambon ” (p. 457), and turn ont the moulds when cooked, place them554 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. and serve. on a sieve, and let cool. Mask the required number of dariole moulds, which must be similar in shape as the timbales used for chartreuses, only a little larger, with aspic jelly, previously flavoured with ham essence and a little carmine, to impart a pink tint and ham flavour to the jelly. ^Vhen the aspic is set enough, place in each the ham TIMBALES DE J AMBON ET POIS A LA BAYONNE, shapes (chartreuses), and fill the sides with more aspic. Put the moulds on the ice to set, then turn out on to a’^cold dish ; garnish to taste, and serve. Jambon a la Gelee {Ham with Aspic Jelly). Cut some thin slices of cooked cold ham, and arrange them neatly on a dish. Garnish the sides with coarsely chopped set aspic or savoury jelly, French gherkins, and parsley. Instead of chopping the aspic, cut it into neatly-shaped cubes, lozenge or heart shapes. It may be added that the general effect of this dish depends largely on the way in which it is dished and garnished. Souvenirs a la St. Germain. Prepare and cook eight to ten timbales of lambs’ bread and peas, as directed in “ Timbales de Ris d’Agneau.” Mask the same number of moulds, similar in shape, but a trifle larger, with a thin layer of aspic decorated with slices of hard-boiled white of egg, ham, pimientos, or tongue and slices of truffle, as shown in the illustration given, and place the moulds on the ice. Unmould the cooked timbales and let them cool, put them into the prepared moulds, filling the cavities with aspic or mayonnaise cream, tinted green with spinach puree or spinach greening. When quite set, turn out on a cold dish. Garnish with small cress or endi\'e,555 COLD ENTREES. Souffles de Jambon en Casseroles {Ha}n Souffles in Casseroles). 8 to 10 oz. cooked lean ham, i gill rich Madeira sauce, il gill aspic jelly, pint cream, t slice ox-tongne. seasoning. Cut the ham into small slices, pound till smooth in a mortar, add the brown sauce gradually, mix w^ell, and rub through a line sieve. IVIelt the aspic and whisk it over the ice till it begins to set, then stir into the ham mixture. Season to taste with pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of ground mace. \Mhp the cream till stiff, and w'ork into the mixture. Continue whisking for some minutes, then hll up some small silver casseroles. Place a star-shaped slice of tongue on top of each, and put them in a charged ice-cabinet for about 2I hours. Dish up, and serve. Souffle de Jambon a I’Espagnole [Spanish Ham Souffle). -J- lb. cooked ham (lean), i oz. butter, i shallot, I pint Espagnole sauce, I gill aspic jelly, oz. leaf gelatine, i gill cream, i white of egg, seasoning, salt, pepper, and paprika. Cut the ham into dice. i\Ielt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallot, peeled and minced hnely, and fry a little, then put in the ham and fry over a rpiick hre for h\'e minntes, put it in a mortar and pound linely, adding a little Espagnole sance to moisten. Rub the whole through a line sieve and put it in a stew’-pan with the sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes, season to taste, add the aspic jelly and the gelatine, dissolved and strained. Whisk the egg-white to a stiff froth, and stir into the mixture before it is quite cool. \Miip the cream and incorporate with the mixture. Stir over the ice till it commences to set, then pour into a prepared souffle dish, with a paper band attached. Keep it on the ice for about two hours. Remove the paper band, sprinkle the top with panurette seasoned with a good pinch of paprika or krona pepper, and serve at once, Mousse de Jambon en Gelee [Ham Mousse in Savoury Jelly). • Prepare a ham souffle in a charlotte mould as directed on p. 458. When cooked, i.e. poached or steamed, set it on the ice for one orSS6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. two hours. Mask a larger-sized charlotte mould with half-set aspic, garnish the sides and bottom of the mould with diamond- shaped slices of cooked ham and truffles, and coat with a thin layer of pink chaud-froid sauce flavoured with ham or tongue puree. W'hen set, place the ham mousse in this, fill up the sides with aspic, and set on the ice. Unmould and serve cold. Pates de Dinde ou Volaille {Turkey or Chicken Patties). Prepare a good light puff-paste, and make some small patty cases. A convenient plan is to order as many patty cases as may be needed from the confectioner—any good shop will be able to supply them at a few hours’ notice. The cases, whether home- made or ordered from the confectioner, must be empty, i.e. the soft portion must be removed from the centre of the pastry. To make the mixture for filling proceed as follows : Mince (not too finely) six to eight ounces of cooked turkey or chicken, free from bone, skin, and sinew (a little cooked veal may be mixed with it if needed), three to four ounces of cooked ham or tongue, and a few preserved mushrooms cut into dice. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, blend this over the fire without brovaring, then gradually add not quite half a pint of stock and milk. Allow it to boil whilst stirring. Cook for ten minutes, then strain, and add the minced meat, etc. Season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, also add a tablespoonful of cream and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and let the whole stew very gently for another ten or fifteen minutes. Re-heat the patty cases, and fill them with the prepared mixture. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. These pates are delicious either hot or cold. Galantine de Volaille {Chicken Galantine). I large fowl, i lb. veal forcemeat (see forcemeats) or i lb. sausage meat. 1 hard-boiled egg, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue and ham, 2 large truffles, 2 gherkins, 1- qz. pistachio nuts (peeled), meat glaze, aromatic spice, salt and pepper. Bone the fowl carefully, so as to remove the carcase completely without tearing the skin of the fowl (see p. 127), the skin of the legs and wings should be drawn inside. Slit the back of the boned fowl, and lay it out on a board, skin downwards. Season with aromatic spice, salt, and pepper, and spread the forcemeat or sausage meat evenly upon the fowl. Upon this put the tongue, ham, hard-boiled egg, gherkins, and truffles, all cut into cubes or strips, distribute the pistachios evenly, and put a thin layer of the forcemeat over all. Form into a roll, sew securely, wrap up in a clean cloth, and tie the ends with twine. Cook in good second stock for about two hours or more, according to the size of the fowl, press till cold between two weighted boards. Remove the cloth and the twine, then glaze the galantine. Dish up, and garnish tastefully with aspic jelly and parsley.COLD SEli VICE DISHES. 557 Chapon en Belle-Vue {('hand-j)'aid of Capon). 2 capons or kirgc Surrey fowls (trussed for boiling), i i|uaj'l white stock, I ])iiit white chaud-froid sauce (sec Sauces), aspic jelly, 3 large Irullles, a tew slices of smoked cooked tongue. Wrap up the fowls in buttered pajter, and Itoil till tender in riehly-tlavunred white stuck. Take njp remove the skin, and let eool. Reduce half a pint of the litpior of fowls, skim well, stir into the chand - troid sauce, reduce again, and pour into a basin. Stir the sauce on the ice until it commences to get lirm, then pour quickly over the fowls so as to completely coat them. Decorate the breasts with fanci- fully - cut slices of trufties and tongue, when thoroughly set, mask over with a coat- ing of half-set aspic jelly. Dish up on a rice socle, neatly decorated, garnish the base with blocks of asjtic, chopped aspic, truftfe, and tongue. Fix a garnished hatelet in the centre, and serve. Chaud-froid de Volaille a la Cedard. Cook a fowl, trussed for boiling the same as described for “ Chapon en Belle-Vue,” and mask it when cold with white chaud- froid sauce. Cook also 6 oz. of rice in sufheient water to make a fairly firm m i X t u r e. Pound it in a mortar, press into an oval- shaped hat mould, when cold, turn oift and carve the side with a sharp knife as shown in the i 11 u s t ration. Place this on an oval dish and put the ju'cpared fowl iqton it. Garnish the top with a skewer or hatelet with ('ocks’-comb, truflle, etc., put some triangular-shai)cd jheces of set as]ti(' and mushroom heads round the base of the dish, and serve.558 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. and serve. Chaud-froid de Filets de Poularde a I’Ambassadrice {Cluuui-fivid of Capon Fillets). I poularde or plump capon, a mirepoix of ham, carrot, onion, and bay-leaf, ?. gill rich veal stock, i small glass Santerne, i truffle (or peelings), oz. pistachios, 8 thin slices of bacon, \ gill cream and a little white sauce, ■| lb. cooked lean ham, I lb, foie-gras pate, i gill aspic cream or mayon- naise aspic, white chand-fioid sauce, i hard-boiled white of egg, 12 stuffed olives, aspic for garnish, i .small round socle of cooked rice, seasoning. Bone the capon or poularde, prepare and flatten eight or ten capon fillets, and pound the remainder of meat, previously freed from skin, bone, and gristle. When smooth, add to it the cream and a little well-reduced white sauce, season, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Chop the truffle and peeled pistachios rather coarsely, and mix with the prepared farce (well seasoned). Cook the carcase in stock, which may be used for the braise if finished in time. Spread the fillets with the farce, and roll up like olives. Wrap them in thin slices of bacon, tie up, and place in a prepared mirepoix (white). Cook in the oven for ten minutes, baste frequently, ttien pour off the fat, add the wine and stock, and finish cooking till they are quite tender—they will take from twenty-five to thirty minutes. W^hen done, take up, remove the bacon, and let the olives cool. Coat them well with chaud-froid sauce, and mask with aspic. Prepare a border-mould of Mousse de Jambon (p. 553) by masking it first with aspic, then decorate tastefully with thin slices of cooked ham and slices of hard-boiled egg, and green peas. For the mousse, pound finely the remainder of cooked ham and the foie-gras, rub through a sieve, return to the mortar, season, and incorporate with the aspic cream. Fill the border-mould with this, and put it on the ice to set. Unmould on a round entree dish, ]ilace the round of shaped rice in the centre, upon this dress the fillets cn cliaud-froul. On top, in the middle of these, arrange neatly the stuffed olives,COLD ENTREES. 5 59 Poulet decoupe en Chaud-froid [Chaud-fyoid of Chicken). Cook a tender chicken, trussed for boiling, in seasoned white stock, when done, take up, drain, and let cool. Cut it into neat joints, and remove the skin. Coat each piece with white chaud- froid sauce, and place on a wire tray. Repeat this so as to com- pletely mask each piece with sauce, then decorate with thinly cut slices of truffle, pimientos, and cucumber-rind, mask with a thin layer of aspic. Dish up on a bed of small salad, and serve. Darioles de Volaille a la Diplomate. I Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, foie-gras, i tablespoouful of cream, i yolk of egg, saJt, and aromatic spice, i oz. of ham, truffles, 1 pint chaud-froid sauce, i pint aspic jelly, aspic border with vegetable macedoine. Remove tlie fillets of a large fowl, taking off the skin and sinews, broil them in a saute-pan with a little fresh butter, let them get cold, then cut up finely. Pound the rest of the meat in a mortar with about one-third its quantity of foie-gras, add a little cream and the yolk of one egg. Season with some aromatic spice, and pound until the whole is fine enough to pass through a fine sieve. Butter well six to eight egg-shaped dariole moulds, line them with this farce, place a spoonful of chicken and ham salpicon, mixed with minced truffles, in the centre, fill up and cover with the remainder of the farce, and place them in a saute-pan, two-thirds filled with boiling water. Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, unmould and put them on the ice to cool. Mask them with a thin white chaud-froid sauce, decorate with truffles, and coat with aspic. Dress them on an aspic macedoine border on a round dish, put some small mixed salad in the centre of the dish, and serve. (See illustration on p. 591.) Poularde a la Dauphine. I poulartle or large Surrey fowl, cooked lean ham, f gill bechamel sauce, 1, gill cream, i-J gill aspic jell}^ trulfies, white chaud-froid sauce. For decoration : 1 jiint firm chicken aspic, i large truffle, slices of ham, and chilli or pimiento skin. Truss the bird as for boiling, rub the surface with cut lemon, cook till tender in seasoned white stock, drain, and let cool. Pound the ham finely, add to it the bechamel sauce, rub through a fineTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S6o sieve, season to taste, add the cream, aspic, and some chopped truffle, and stir over the ice until it begins to set. Carefnlly remove the breast of the bird, cut away the breast bone, fill the cavity with the prepared farce, and cover the top with the breast neatly sliced, POULARDE A LA DAUPHINE. giving the bird its original shape. Mask completely with chand- froid sance, and decorate with fancifully-cut slices of ham, truffle, and pimiento. The bird must be dished on a plain socle, the sides of which are built up with rock-shaped pieces (like meringues) of chicken aspic, whisked to a stiff frofh and shaped by means of a tablespoon. A little half-set clear ielly should be poured round the base of the dish. Timbale a la Toulouse [Chicken and Veal Timbale). r lb. cooked chicken or lb. cooked veal, 2 oz. cooked lean ham, pint whipped cream, i anchovy, i-J- gill aspic, i truffle, i gherkin, red chilli or pimiento, aspic cream (p. 147), pepper, salt, and krona pepper. Free the meat from skin and gristle, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Wipe and bone the anchovy, pound with the above, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Put the paste into a basin, mix in the whip- ped cream, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Decorate a timbale mould, previ- ously masked with aspic, tastefully with stars of truffle or fancifully-cut slices of chilli and gher- kin. Coat the inside completely with a layer of aspic cream (using two tablespoonfuls of cream to one of561 COLD entr^:es. aspic). Whip the aspic jelly to a froth, mix with the puree, adding any trimmings of truffle finely chopped. Finish with a layer of aspic jelly or cream, and put on the ice to set. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Gelee [Chicken Cidlets in Aspic). Prepare a chicken farce as directed on p. 178. When steamed and cold, cut the shape into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and stamp out some cutlets by means of a cutlet cutter. Decorate some cutlet moulds (previously masked with a thin layer of aspic jelly) with cooked green peas, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg. When the garnish is set, place a chicken cutlet in each of the moulds, fill up with aspic jelly, and set them on the ice until required. Unmould the cutlets, arrange them neatly on a cold dish in a circle, fill the centre of the dish with cooked macedoine of vegetables, seasoned with mayonnaise sauce, and garnish round with small cress, Medaillons de Volaille a rimperiale [Chicken Medaillons). 2 chickens, larding bacon, 4 truffles, i white of egg, i gill cream, a mirepoix for braising, i oz. butter, ^ pint white chaud-froid sauce, liquid aspic jelly, and some set for garnish, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a salad of asparagus points for garnish, 8 to 10 rounds of cooked ox-tongue. Strip the skin from the chickens, remove the fillets and wings, flatten a little, make up into eight to ten rounds, and lard them carefully with larding bacon. Pound the remainder of the chicken in a mortar until very fine, pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and work in the white of egg. Beat up the cream, mix with the forcemeat, add pepper, salt, and grated jiutmeg to taste, and set on the ice until required. Spread the butter over the bottom of a deep saute- or braising-pan, add the mirepoix and a few slices of bacon, arrange the larded fillets on this, moisten with chicken stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about thirty minutes, basting frequently. Strain and preserve the liquor. Press the fillets between two baking-sheets, when cold, trim neatly into round medaillons, cover one side of each with the prepared forcemeat, put again in the saute-pan with the liquor, cover with buttered paper, and poach in a slack oven for ten minutes. Cool, mask with chaud- froid sauce, when the sauce is set ornament the top with fancifully cut pieces of truffles to form a crown or a rosette. Mask the surface with half-set aspic. Dress on croutes of smoked tongue on a round dish, fill the centre with asparagus salad, garnish round with diamond shapes of set aspic, and serve. Medaillons de Volaille, Chevaliere. Chicken breast and wings flattened and poached in white stock, then pressed and cut into rounds ; cut out similar rounds of thin slices of ham and hard-boiled white of egg, and sandwich each three to- gether with aspic and meat glaze, mask with aspic and decorate each with a star-shaped slice of truffle and a sprig of chervil. Prepare a ham mousse, mixed with chopped peeled walnuts, tongue, and lemon mayonnaise, set in a flat rnould. Dress the medaillons on this. NNTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 562 Tartines de Volaille en Surprise. I large tender chicken. lb. ox;-tongue (cooked). lb. chicken forcemeat, I white of egg, seasoning, i gill aspic cream, i gill a-;pic jelly, a little butter. Carefully remove the fillets of the chicken, flatten them and cut into neat squares, a little smaller than sandwich moulds, which will be required for this dish. Slice the tongue, and cut the slices to the same shape as the fillets. Put half the squares of chicken fillets on a buttered baking-tin, season with a little pepper and a pinch of cayenne, moisten the top well with white of egg, place on each a slice of tongue, brush over with white of egg, spread a thin layer of forcemeat (prepared from part of the chicken trimmings) on this, cover with the remainder of chicken fillets previously dipped in white of egg, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, ^^'hen done, place between two boards and press till cold. Mask as many sandwich moulds as there are sandwiches with clear aspic, when partly set, ornament with a few cooked green peas and some fancifully cut slices of tongue, coat the garnish with a layer of partly set aspic cream, place the sandwiches, previously trimmed, carefiflly into the prepared mould, mix the remainder of the jelly and cream together and fill up the moulds, and put on the ice to set. Turn out on a cold dish, arrange them in a row in the centre, garnish the sides with a little green salad, and serve. Mousselines de Chapon en Caisses [Capon Monsselines in Cases). Prepare a cream-like mixture the same as directed for " Darioles de Creme de Volaille ” on p. 567, using the remains of boiled capon in place of chicken. Line eight flat bouche moulds with a thin layer of aspic and decorate each mould with a star of truffle placed in the centre, with small clots of trufile around it. Next coat the moulds with a layer of aspic cream, and All when set with the capon mixture. Place the moulds on the ice to set. Put a little seasoned mixed salad, cut very small, into china or paper souffle cases, unmould the mousselines and place each on the salad into the cases. Garnish the edges with sprigs of endive. Dish up, and serve cold. Cremes de Volailles en Tomates [Chicken Cream with Tomatoes). About 1 lb. cooked chicken meat. J lb. ripe tomatoes, 2 oz. cooked ham, -I 07.. butter, -I pint aspic jelly, i gill cream, 2 tablespoonfnls velo\itee sauce, dessertspoonful meat glaze, 8 tomato moulds, parsley, salt, and pepper. Slice and saute the tomatoes in half an ounce of butter, season with salt and pepper, rub them through a fine sieve, and incor- porate three large tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly. Pound the chicken and ham in a mortar till smooth, pass through a sieve, mix with it the veloutee sauce and dissolved meat-glaze and about two table- spoonfuls liquid aspic (or substitute dissolved gelatine), stir well, add the seasoning, beat up the cream and mix with it. Line each half of the tomato moulds with aspic jelly, when set mask thicklyCOLD ENTRIiES. 563 with the tomato puree, and hll them up with the chicken puree. Press two halves together tightly and place them on the ice to set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, dress neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Palmettes de Volaille a la Valeska. I large plump Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, -J- gill stock, t gill cream, t gill bechamel sauce, seasoning, 2 whites of eggs, i-J- gill white chaucl-froid sauce, meat glaze, 8 or 9 oblong kite-shaped souffle cases. Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, flatten them, season, and fry slightly in butter in a saute-pan. Add the stock, place a buttered paper over, and poach in the oven for ten minutes. Take up, drain, and press the fillets. With the re- mainder of the fowl prepare a light souffle farce, using the cream, bechamel sauce, whites of eggs (previously whisked), and seasoning. Put this in a buttered plain mould (flat shape), and cook in a bain-marie in the oven. Wdren done, unmould and let cool. Cut the chicken fillets into the shape of the paper cases, and the farce to correspond, and sandwich them together with a little dissolved meat-glaze. Mask each carefully with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate after- wards with thinly-cut fanciful slices of fruffle and tarragon leaves, finally coat them with a thin layer of aspic. Place a little small cress or other salad, previously seasoned, in each of the cases, dress the palmettes upon this, dish up, and serve. Chaud-froid de Volaille a la Norvegienne [Chaud-froid of Chicken, Norwegian Style). I plump chicken, white stock, 2 oz. Carolina rice, 4 Spanish pimientos, f gill veloutee sauce, seasoning, truffles, grated horse-radish, pint aspic jelly, I gill stiff mayonnaise (p. 152), t g'il double cream, a handful of mixed salad. Truss the chicken and boil it in white stock till tender; cut up into neat joints when cold, prepare a mayonnaise aspic flavoured with grated horse-radish, and mask with it the pieces of chicken. Cook the rice in stock, enrich with veloutee sauce and cream. Line a border mould with aspic and fill up with the prepared rice, mixed with finely shredded pimiento, cover with more aspic and let set on the ice. Turn out the border on to a dish, fill the centre with seasoned salad, and range the chicken on the border ; sur- mount each with a slice of truffle masked with aspic. Garnish to taste, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 564 Mayonnaise de Volaille a la Reine Alexandra {Mayonnaise oj Chicken, Queeyi Alexandra Style). I large boiled fowl (cold), 2 truffles, 2 slices of ox-tongue, 2 cabbage lettuces, 4 oz. cooked ham, 2 Spanish pimientos, gill mayonnaise, gill aspic, salt and pepper, li gill green sauce (sauce Verte). Remove the skin and bone from the fowl, cut the meat into pieces, not too small, and mix with mayonnaise. Trim and wash the lettuces, season with salt and pepper and a little mayonnaise. Place a pudding basin on crushed ice and line the interior with a thin layer of aspic. When set, ornament with slices of tongue cut into strips, truffle, and pimientos. Mix the green sauce with the remainder of aspic, and coat the interior of the basin, as soon as the decorative portion is set. Fill up with alternate layers of chicken, lettuce, the ham cut small, remainder of tongue, truffle, and pimientos. Season each layer and coat with sauce and aspic. Place on the ice for an hour and a half, turn out on a round dish, and serve. Sauce Verte {Green Sauce). Blanch a handful of washed sorrel leaves, a small bunch of parsley leaves, and a few tarragon leaves, drain well, and pound all in a mortar with three hard-boiled yolks of eggs and a gill of mayonnaise sauce. Rub through a fine sieve, and blend with more mayon- naise. Care must, however, be taken to retain a pale green tint in the sauce. Timbale de Volaille a la Prince de Galles Line a timbale mould with aspic and decorate the side and bottom with truffle, tongue, white of egg, and green peas—mask with a layer of chaud-froid sauce, then line it with cooked chicken farce, and fill up with a chartreuse of cooked chicken, ham, tongue truffles, and pimiento, blended with aspic to set. Tomates a I’Algerienne {Tomato-shaped Chicken Creams). I cooked fowl (small), pint of aspic jelly, i gill veloutee or bechamel sauce, I glass sherry, ij- gill tomato puree (concentrated), i gill cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, -i oz. chicken glaze, 2 leaves of gelatine, 10 tomato-shaped moulds, spinach greening. Line the tomato moulds with aspic jelly, put the tomato puree and one gill of aspic in a stew-pan, dissolve the gelatine in the same, boil up, and reduce a little. Add a pinch of sugar, skim, pass through a fine sieve, and when cool line the moulds with a layer ofCOLD ENTRIES. 5^5 this preparation. Pound the chicken in a mortar till tine. Boil up together the white sauce, one and a half gill aspic and sherry, reduce to one-third part, add the chicken glaze, tammy, and mix with the pounded chicken. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Whip the cream, and mix in. Fill the moulds with this preparation before it is completely set. Close the two halves of each mould lirmly together (care should be taken that the marks of each part of the mould are opposite one another). Place on the ice long enough to set. Tint the remainder of aspic with a little spinach greening, pour into a saute-pan, and, when set, cut out some leaf-shapes. Place them on a dish, arrange the tomatoes on top, turn out the moulds, and decorate with chopped aspic. Cremes de Volaille a I’Ecarlate {Chicken Cream with Tongue). t lb. cooked chicken, freed from bone and skin, \ lb. cooked tongue, ^ gill allemande or velontee sauce, it gill aspic, i gill cream, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, i large ripe tomato, t oz. butter, pepper, salt, cayenne. Mince the. chicken and tongue, put it in a mortar, and pound till smooth. Add the sauce, previously mixed, with L gill aspic, season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Cut the tomato into slices, saute them in a little butter, and cook over a quick fire. Rub through a fine sieve or tammy, and mix with a gill of aspic. Line six to eight oval moulds with this and decorate the bottoms with fancifully cut slices of truffle, next mask the moulds one-third deep with white chaud-froid sauce. M’hip the cream and mix with the chicken puree before it is completely set, add two or three chopped leaves of tarragon and chervil, fill the moulds with this mixture, and put on the ice till set. Unmould, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. Mousse de Chapon a la Belle Helene. I capon, 1 11). natural foie-gras, 6 oz. cooked lean ham, i oz. butter, 3 eggs. It gill cream, i|- gill bechamel or velontee sauce, salt, white pepper, Nepaui or cayenne to .season, 2^ gill aspic. Remove the fillets of the bird and other nice portions of capon, free from skin and bone. With the bones and skin make a rich stock. Pound the capon meat in a mortar until quite smooth, and add gradually the yolks of three eggs and the white sauce and two and a half gills of cream. Add the butter, mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. M’hisk the whites of twoS66 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. eggs to a stiff froth and carefully stir into the farce. Put this into a well-buttered plain mould ; steam slowly for about forty minutes, then set the mould to cool. Mask a timbale or mousse mould with a layer of aspic, decorate the bottom and sides neatly with thin slices of foie-gras, ham, and truffle, and let set. Next coat the decorated portion with a thin layer of aspic cream made with veloutee and aspic. Pound in a mortar the left-over pieces of foie- gras and ham till quite smooth ; cut the steamed farce into slices, and pound these with the foie-gras and ham, season again if needed, and pass through a fine sieve. Incorporate the remainder of cream whipped and one whisked white of egg, also a gill of very stiff aspic (liquefied but not hot). Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then fill up the prepared mould and keep it in a well-charged ice cabinet for two hours. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Melba. I large Surrey fowl or young capon, 2 oz. butter, i terriiie foie-gras, sea- soning, red and white chaud-froid sauces (see Sauces), aspic, suitable socle for serving the cutlets on, Melba salad for centre of dish. Remove the wing and breast portions of the fowl, flatten the pieces with a wetted cutlet bat. Divide them, flatten out again, and place each in a wetted cutlet mould, then place them on the ice. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlet shapes, and season with salt. Cover with buttered paper, cook for fifteen or twenty minutes in a moderate oven, drain, and let cool. Braise the trimming and leg portions of the fowl in the usual way. W'hen cooked, free from skin and bone, and pound the meat in a mortar till quite smooth, adding a similar quantity of foie-gras and about i oz. of fresh butter. Season well with aromatics, and rub through a fine567 COLD ENTRliES. sieve. Mask one side of each cutlet thickly with this farce, S(j as to give them a neat appearance. Place them on the ice to get linn. Lastly coat one half of the cutlets with white chaud-froid sauce, and the other half with red chaud-froxl sauce. When set, mask with aspic. Have ready a suitably carved rice socle, place it on an entree dish, and hll in pyramid form with Melba salad, round it dress the cutlets as neatly as possible. Surmount the whole with a suitable hatelet, with several very small peeled tomatoes hlled with salad and aspic. Round the base of the dish put fancifully cut slices, triangles or other shapes of set aspic. (Adapted from M. C. J. Corblet's MSS.) Salade Melba. This consists of plainly boiled rice cooked in salted water with the addition of a little lemon-juice. M'hen the rice is drained and cold enough, season it with pepper, and mix with the necessary proportion of oil and vinegar. Add to it some peeled ripe tomatoes, freed from pulp, and cut into very small julienne strips. Lastly mix with the salad a good dose of paprika, and if liked a little pimiento cut in very tiny strips. Bouchees de Volaille a I’Andalouse {Chicken Bouchies with Aspayagiis tips). lb. puff-paste trimmings, i small chicken free from skin and bone, i gill asparagus points cooked and drained, ^ gill veloutee sauce, 4- pint white chaud-froid sauce, i truffle, 2-3 slices tongue, 2-3 tablespoonfuls cream, gill mayonnaise sauce, seasoning. Roll the paste out thinly, stamp out 8-9 small rounds, line small bouche moulds, prick the bottom, hll with dried peas or rice, bake them to a golden brown, and let them cool on a sieve. Pound the chicken meat hnely in a mortar, add a little veloutee sauce and cream, just sufficient to bind, season to taste, and rub through a hire sieve. With this hll 8-g small buttered cups or dariole moulds to ht the paste-crusts, introduce into the centre of each a teaspoonful of asparagus points moistened with mayonnaise. Poach them in the oven for thirty minutes, unmould, and when cold mask them with chaud-froid sauce. Decorate with truffle and fancifully cut slices of tongue, coat them with a layer of aspic, keep them on ice till required, and place them in the prepared crusts. Dish up in a circle and hll the centre with asparagus. Decorate to taste, and serve. Darioles de Volaille a la Chartreuse. 6 oz. cold chicken {freed from skin and bone), 6 preserved mushrooms, rt- pint aspic jelly, i gill Espagnole sauce, 4- oz, meat glaze, i gill cream, I hard-boiied egg, 6 to 8 small chicken quenelles (p. 178), 3 or 4 cooked cocks’ combs, seasoning, r gliss sherry, i gill veloutee or bechamel sauce. Line about eight or ten small dariole moulds with a thin layer of aspic. Ornament the bottoms and the sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg, hx the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stew-pan, reduce to one-third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tamni}’. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the insides of the moulds with568 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. this preparation. Cut the chicken meat, mushrooms, and remainder of truffles into convenient slices, cubes, or fillets. To the Espagnole sauce add the sherry, half a pint aspic, and meat glaze, reduce a little, mix carefully with the meat, etc. ; allow to cool, season the whole to taste, then fill up the moulds, and stand them on the ice. When set, unmould on to a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and send to table. Bombe de Volaille a la Trianon. The breast and two wings of one large boiled fowl, 2 pickled sheep’s tongues boiled, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 small cabbage-lettuces, i pint aspic, -J- pint lemon mayonnaise, tarragon and chervil, endive or batavia, seasoning. Mask a bombe mould with aspic and decorate the sides with half-moon or triangular-shaped slices of chicken and tongue, and line with aspic cream ; mask also a border mould with aspic, and decorate the sides with slices of hard-boiled eggs, chervil, and endive or batavia shreds. Cut the remain- de r of chicken free from skin and bones and the ton g u e s into small thin slices. MiX these carefully with lettuce and other salad cut up small and egg slices. Season with salt and pepper, and dress with mayonnaise, mixed with a little aspic to help set. Fill up the prepared bombe mould with this, and put on the ice. Fill the border with the remainder of chicken, etc., and salad, and put on the ice to set. Unmould the border on a flat dish, place a crouton in centre, and place the bombe shape upon this. Garnish with sections of lettuce hearts, endive, etc., and serve with sauce Trianon. Sauce Trianon. Stir into one gill of mayonnaise about half a gill of Italian tomato pulp, I dessertspoonful of soubise puree and half a teaspoon- ful of chopped tarragon leaves. Cut half a Spanish pimiento andCOLD ENTRIsES. 569 one French gherkin into very hne short julienne strips and add to the sauce, which is then ready to serve. Bombes de Volaille a la Victoria {Chicken Bombes, Victoria Style). I roast or boiled fowl, i pint rich bechamel or veloutee sauce, \ oz. French leaf gelatine, pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles, i hard-boiled egg, i gill cream, 6 large Spanish olives (stoned), gill tomato pulp or sauce, salt, ]>epper, and aromatic spice, 2 oz. foie-gras, spinach greening Remove the meat from the fowl, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth. Dissolve the gelatine in the white sauce, strain into the mortar containing the pounded chicken, mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub through a hne sieve. Mix a few drops of spinach greening with a little aspic, and line the bottom of eight small bombe or bouche moulds with it. Pound the foie- gras with the yolk of the hard-boiled egg, season to taste, and stuff the stoned olives with this. Set one olive in the bottom of each mould, mix the prepared puree with a gill of whipped cream, pour about a tablespoonful of it into each mould, and let set. Mask the sides of the mould with plain aspic, decorate tastefully with fancifully cut slices of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Mix the tomato pulp or sauce with about half the quantity of aspic, and line the decorated portion of each mould with this sauce. Chop the trimmings of truffle finely and mix with the chicken puree, fill the moulds with this, and put on the ice. When set, unmould and turn out on a dish lined with a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. Cotelettes Mignonnes a la Tomate {Cold. Chicken or Game Cutlets). t- lb. chicken or game forcemeat (p. 178), i gill tomato sauce incor- porated with aspic, i gill of aspic jelly, 2 tablespoonfiils of cream, I yolk of egg, and i hard-boiled egg, seasoning, parsley for garnishing, I small truffle. Mask eight small cutlet moulds with aspic, work the forcemeat to a creamy substance with the yolk of an egg and sufficient aspic to set it. Ornament the bottom of the cutlets with hard-boiled white of eggs and truffle, mark some lines to imitate bones and fat of cutlets, line with the tomato sauce to imitate the fleshy part, and fill up with the forcemeat previously prepared. Cover the surface of each cutlet with tomato sauce, place them on the ice for about half an hour, turn out carefully, dish up, garnish with parsley or small salad, and serve. Pains de Volaille a I’Argenteuil {Chicken Cream with Asparagus). 1- pint aspic jelly, lb. cooked chicken meat, t glass Marsala, i gill cream, 8 prawns, i hard-boiled egg, i-t gill supreme or veloutee sauce, 6 oz. cooked rabbit or lean veal, 2 slices cooked ox-tongue, seasoning, 2 tablespoonfuls asparagus puree or spinach puree. Line the two halves of an asparagus mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, pound the tongue in a mortar with the yolk of egg, add about a tablespoonful of aspic, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Put this puree in a cornet or forcing-bag when almost set, and force out two lines across each half of the mould, so as to represent the ribbon of a bundle of asparagus. Pound the chicken and veal or570 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. rabbit in a mortar with the white sauce till quite smooth, adding the latter by degrees. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Work in the cool liquid the aspic, stir in a cool place till nearly set, then add the cream, pre- viously whipped stiff. Mix about a fourth part with a little spinach or green asparagus puree, and put this in each half of the mould to form the asparagus-tops, fill the remainder of the mould with the white puree previously mixed with the asparagus puree, close up the mould, wrap up in paper, and place on the ice for about one and a half hours. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish with a folded napkin. Decorate the dish with cooked prawns and diamonds of set aspic jelly, and serve as a cold entree. Dormettes de Volaille a la Janette. Prepare a chicken farce as directed on p. 178, poach it in a mould and let cool, then pound in a mortar, adding white chaud- froid sauce, aspic, and cream ; test the farce and fill up the required number of coquille moulds. When set s;asasfi55^ unmould and place them on a dish or small plates, one or two on each, with clear chicken consomme slightly stiffened with gelatine, decorate with tarragon leaves^ green peas, pimiento, and gherkins, according to taste. Mosaic de Foie-gras a la Diplomate. Pound half a pound of cooked fowl, pass through a sieve, mix while hot with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, and with one- third of the farce incorporate a little liquid aspic. Have ready some ox-tongue, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and black truffles. Place a round or oval mould upon some crushed ice, with clear aspic jelly mask the bottom and sides. When set, ornament the bottom and sides as shown in the illustration with tongue, hard-boiled white of egg, and truffles. To do this it is neces- sary to dip each dice shape in a little liquid aspic jelly, so as to make it adhere to the side of the mould. As soon as the de- coration is finished and well set, line the mould with the chicken puree, stiffened with aspic, place an appropriate-sized pate de foie-gras, freed from crust and fat, in the centre, and fill up sideCOLD ENTrAeS. 571 and top with the remainder of the puree, the last layer should be aspic. Put the mould on the ice until set. When ready for serving, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, withdraw it quickly, wipe round the mould with a cloth, and turn it on a dish with folded napkin or on a socle of rice. Chaud-froid de Foie-gras en Caisses. I tin natural foie-gras (size No. i or No. 2), i gill sherry, \ pint white chaud-froid sauce, i truffle and chervil leaves for decoration, a little small salad, aspic jelly for garnish, 6 to 8 souffle cases. Remove the foie-gras from the tin, trim off all the fat, with a sharp knife cut the foie-gras into slices, about the size of the souffle cases. Have ready some chaud- froid sauce, re- duced with the wine, let it cool, mask the slices of foie-gras before the sauce actually sets, and decorate with slices of truffles and chervil leaves. Mask each with a thin coat- ing of aspic. Pre- pare a small quantity of salad (cut very small), put a little of this in each of the cases, place the foie-gras on the bed of salad, garnish with finely chopped set aspic, dish up, and serve. Parfait de Foie-gras. Use a fine firm goose-liver, insert small cube-shaped pieces of truffles, and poach in sherry (with mirepoix) in oven (25-30 minutes). , Set in aspic in a suitably-shaped terrine, decorate the top with truffles, etc., and place on ice till wanted for table. May be served in terrine or turned out and placed on a dish. Darioles de Foie-gras en Belle-Vue. A large terrine of foie-gras, i pint aspiic jelly, i hard-boiled egg, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, i gill veloutee or chaud-froid sauce, 2 large truffles, 2 slices of cooked tongue and pimiento. Line eight small plain daiiole moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre, a ring of truffle, and a ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly cut lozenge-shapes of truffle, pimiento, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each mould with a thin layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie- gras, take out the truffles, and chop finely. Pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Incorporate half a pint of aspic jellyTHE NEW ICENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 572 and the chopped truffle. Fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set, turn out, dish up, and serve. Darioles de Foie-gras a la Vatel. Mask a number of small plain or fluted dariole moulds with aspic jelly, and decorate the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg (adopt one of the designs illustrated on {)age 537). Stamp or cut out some convenient shapes of foie- gras, trim ofl any particles of fat or lard, put one in each of the dariole moulds, fill up with half-set aspic, and stand on the ice until set. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cloth, and dish up on a silver or china dish. Garnish with chopped aspic and serve. Des de Foie-gras a la Strasbourgeoise. I terriiie foie-gras (size No. lo or No. 12), i large truffle, 2 oz. cooked lean ham, gill stiffly-made mayonnaise sauce, i leaf gelatine, -t gill well-reduced Madere or brown sauce, i tablespoonful double cream, i pint aspic jelly, celery salad for centre. Procure ten to twelve so-called domino or des moulds, line them with a very thin coating of aspic jelly, stamp'^out some slices of truffles to the desired shapes of the dominos. Mix sufflcient mayon- naise with a little cream and aspic to ensure its setting firmly, put a layer of this into each mould. Cut the foie-gras to the size of shape required, and set in the moulds, chop the ham, the remains of truffle, and foie-gras very finely, mix them with the sauce, warm up carefully, add the gelatine, previously dissolved, and enough aspic to form a nice consistency, then fill the moulds completely with this and place them on the ice to set. Prepare a salad with finely shredded white celery, dress it with mayonnaise and aspic, and pile it high on a round dish. Unmould the dominos and place them neatly round the dressed salad. Dominos de Dinde. These are small domino-shaped moulds lined with aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle spots to represent dominos, coated with mayonnaise aspic or white chaud-froid sauce, and filled with slices of cooked turkey fillets, previously dipped in Madere-flavoured sauce. Dish up on a delicate celery salad and serve. Escalopes de Foie-gras a la Bagration {Goose Liver Scallops, Bagration Style). 1 medium-sized preserved goose liver (foie-gras), i gill Madeira-flavoured aspic jelly, \ gill white chaud-froid sauce, gill concentrated tomato pulp, 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee sauce, a croustade border, a rice vase shape and a hitelet. Cut the foie-gras into suitable slices, mask them twice with aspic, and place them on a wire tray. Chop and pound the trim- mings finely, season with salt, pepper, and aromatics, mix with a little veloutee sauce, and shape into little balls or marbles. Coat them with chaud-froid sauce coloured with tomato pulp, and finally mask them with aspic, and keep on ice till required. Have ready573 COLD ENTRIES. a vase shape made of plainly-boiled and ponnded rice, place this on a round entree dish containing the croustade border, dress " "escalopes DE foie-gras a la BAGRATION. the foie-gras slices on the border, and range the little balls in the vase. Insert the hatelet in the centre. Garnish tastefully, and serve. Fleurettes de Foie-gras [Foie-gyas with Mayonnaise). I medium-sized tin or terrine of foie-gras pate, i truffle, i gill of mayon naise sauce, i gill bechamel sauce, pint of stiff aspic jelly, a few sprays of tarragon and chervil, 2 leaves of gelatine. Have ready six to eight small flat oval moulds (any pattern). Trim the foie-gras, cut it into slices, and stamp out as many ovals as there are moulds, similar in shape, but somewhat smaller. Dis- solve the aspic, coat the moulds thinly with it, decorate them with strips of truffle and tarragon and chervil-leaves. Stir the mayon- naise sauce to the remainder of aspic while it is still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie-gras and pound till smooth. Season to taste, dissolve the two leaves of gelatine in the bechamel sauce, add this to the pounded foie-gras, and pass it through a hne sieve. Coat the oval pieces of foie-gras with this mixture, set them in the moulds, fill up with the puree, smooth over with a knife, and place on the ice to set. When ready for serving, immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out and dish up, garnish to taste, and serve.574 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Foie-gras glace a la Hongroise [Iced Foie-gras). I fresh goose’s fiver, i small Spanish onion, 2 bay-leaves, paprika or krona pepper, 2 slices bacon, i oz. butter, i pint aspic jelly, aromatic seasoning. Wipe the liver with a damp cloth, and pare it, peel and slice thinly the onion, and put it in a saute-pan or hreproof earthenware casserole containing the butter (melted), add the bay-leaves, fry a little, and dredge with a teaspoonful of paprika. Put the liver on this and cover with some of the onions ancl the bacon, season with aromatic spice [epice culinaire), cook in a fairly hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes, then put it in an oval tureen or souffle dish. Strain the liquor from the pan over the liver (foie-gras) and let it cool. When cold, fill a tureen or other suitable dish with half-set aspic jelly, and put it on the ice to set. When wanted for table, decorate the top smartly with truffle slices, white of eggs, etc. Pains de Foie-gras a la Georges Sand. I tin or terrine foie-gras (size No. 9 or No. 10), i gill veloutee or supreme sauce, I pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles (large), i hard-boiled egg, 2 slices of cooked tongue, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Mask or coat six to eight small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre of a ring of truffle, with an outer ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly cut lozenge-shapes of truffles, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each timbale with a thin layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie-gras, take out the truffles and chop finely, pound the foie-gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well and rub through a sieve. Work in about half a pint of aspic jelly and the chopped truffles, fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set. Turn the timbales out on to an entree dish, garnish tastefully, and serve. Petites Bombes a I’Alsacienne. I tin or terrine foie-gras pate, i gill cream, 2 eggs, i gill well-reduced veloutee sauce, gill chicken stock, oz. gelatine, 2 oz. cooked ham (lean), I gill aspic, \ endive, aromatic seasoning. Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs, mix each lot separ- ately with a tablespoonful of cream, season with a pinch of salt. Steam slowly for ten minutes in separate moulds, and when cold cut into slices, and stamp out into fanciful shapes. Open the tin or terrine of foie-gras, remove the lard from the surface, turn out, take out the pieces of trifflle, wash them, and cut into suitable shapes for garnish ; also prepare a decoration of ham. Line six to eight little square or oblong-shaped moulds with aspic jelly, garnish the] bottom with shapes of truffles, yolks ancl whites of egg, and ham, in some symmetrical design. Put the foie-gras and trimmings of ham into a mortar, pound until smooth, rub through a sieve, return to the mortar and work in the veloutee sauce and the re- mainder of cream. Dissolve the gelatine in the chicken stock andCOLD ENTRl'iES. 575 incorporate with the puree, add half a tablespoonful of aromatic seasoning, mix well. When nearly cold hll up the centre of the moulds, and place them on the ice to set. Turn out on a dish, surround with a bed of endive salad, or any other kind of green salad, and serve. Petites Cremes a la Mulhouse {Foie-gras and Asparagus). I terrine or tin of foie-gras, i bundle of asparagus or 1 pint asparagus- points, \ pint veloutee or allemande sauce, seasoning, t oz. gelatine, I gill whipped cream, i gill aspic jelly, truffle and red pimientos for garnish. Line the inside of 8-io baba or dariole moulds with a thin coating of aspic jelly, decorate each mould according to taste with strips of truffle, red chilli, and some nicely-cooked asparagus-heads. The green part of the asparagus must be cut into short pieces, cooked in slightly salted water, and passed through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in the sauce, add this to the piiree, season to taste with pepper and salt, also a pinch of nutmeg or cayenne if liked ; let it cool, then mix in the whipped cream and a little spinach greening to improve the colour. IMask the inside of the moulds with a thick layer of the prepared puree. Remove the fat from the foie- gras, and cut it into suitable pieces. Put one or two of these into each mould, and fill up with the remainder of the puree. Should there not be sufficient to fill all the moulds, mix a little aspic with the puree. Let the moulds set on the ice, then dress them in a circle on a round entree dish, fill the centre with green salad or sliced tomatoes, put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. Mousses de Foie-gras a I’Ancienne. 6 oz. foie-gras (preserved), 2 tablespoonfuls allemande or bechamel sauce, I white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, oz. leaf gelatine, 2 or 3 slices of cooked tongue, i truffle, pint aspic, ^ gill white stock. Mix the white of egg with a teaspoonful of milk, poach in a small moidd,- and, when cold, cut into neat strips, stars or rounds. Cut also some strips and stars out of the slices of tongue. Put the trimmings of egg and tongue into the mortar with the foie-gras, pound till smooth, add the sauce, mix well, season with a little pepper and aromatic spice, and rub through a fine sieve or hair sieve. Mask six to eight small timbale moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the inside with tongue, white of egg, and truffle, set the decoration with a little more aspic, and put the moulds in a cool place. Put the prepared puree in a basin. Melt the gelatine in the stock, and strain when almost cold into the puree, mix rvell with a whisk. MTisk in the cream and rather more than half the aspic jelly, and as soon as the mixture begins to set fill up the little moulds. When set, turn them out on to a cold dish, arrange neatly, garnish the centre with crisp salad, celery, and cucumber, decorate with chopped aspic, and serve.576 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mousses de Foie-gras a la Reine. Procure a terrine or tin of foie-gras, size No. lo, remove the lard, cut the liver into slices, cook in a buttered saute-pan with a small mirepoix for a few minutes, season with a little aromatic spice, moisten with a glass of sherry, and allow to get cold. Mask eight to ten small dariole or fluted timbale moulds with aspic jelly, decorate them with fancifully-cut slices of truffles. Pound the prepared foie- gras well, pass through a sieve, stir in two tablespoonfuls of dissolved meat glaze and two tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly, stand the basin on some crushed ice and work the mixture with a wooden spoon until it commences to thicken, add by degrees a little more aspic jelly or very strong veal stock, last of all work in about half a gill of whipped cream, fill up the masked moulds and stand them on the ice. Dress the mousses in a circle, placing each on a round of aspic jelly, fill the centre with cooked asparagus-points or cooked green peas, well seasoned with a little mayonnaise aspic jelly, garnish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly and parsley. Keep in a cool place until required for table. Zephires de Foie-gras. t medium-sized tin or terrine of foie-gras pate, i pimiento, ^ gill tomato sauce, I gill mayonnaise sauce, i pint stiff aspic jelly, a few sprigs of tarra- gon and chervil, 2 sheets of gelatine. Have ready six to eight small zephire (oval) moulds. Trim the foie-gras, cut into slices, and stamp out as many ovals as there are moulds, similar in shape, but somewhat smaller. Coat the moulds thinly with aspic, decorate with strips of pimiento and tarragon and chervil leaves. Stir the mayonnaise sauce and the remainder of aspic while still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie-gras, pound the latter till smooth, season to taste, add th^e sauce in which the two leaves of gelatine have been dissolved. Pass through a fine sieve, coat each piece of foie-gras with this and set into the moulds, fill up with the puree, mixed with a little chopped pimiento, and place the moulds on ice. When set, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. Mousselines de Caneton a la Moresco {Small Creams of Duckling, with Green Peas). I small duckling, i pint cooked green peas, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 2-3 tablespoonfuls cream, gill bechamel or veloutee sauce, 2 oz. cooked ham, 11- gill aspic, seasoning. Truss and braise the duckling in the usual manner, remove the skin whilst warm, cut off the nicest parts of the flesh and pound them, with the minced ham, till quite smooth. Incorporate the egg- yolks, cream, and a gill of cooked peas, season to taste, rub through a fine sieve, work in -I- gill of aspic and the white sauce. Mask the inside of 12 pea-pod-shaped moulds with a thin layer of aspic, let them set on ice, then fill them with the prepared farce, and keep on ice for about three-quarters of an hour. Cook enough semolina orS77 COLD ENTREES. cornflour in seasoned milk to fill a suitably-shaped oval lUDiild, which is to form the base or support for the little shapes. W’heii MOUSSELINES DE CANETON A LA MORESCO. this is set, place it on an oval dish. Unmonld the shapes, arrange them neatly on top of the larger shape, and serve with a boat of cold cucumber sauce (see p. 147). Filets de Caneton a la Baloise {Filets of Duckling, Bdloise Style). I large duckling, i gill brown chaud-froid sauce (p. 144), i terrine of foie- gras (No. 12 size). 4 gill veloutee sauce, gill aspic jelly, ^ lb. cooked lean ham, 4 glass Marsala, i gill double cream, salt, pepper, and paprika. Roast the duck, baste liberally with butter, when cool remove the fillets and part of the wings, and cut into eight even-sized slices the shape of hearts. Take the truffles out of the foie-gras, rub the latter through a sieve, mix with a little cream or white sauce, season to taste, and spread one side of each prepared fillet with this, then coat the fillets with brown chaud-froid sauce, which must be well-flavoured, the carcase of the duckling being used for this purpose. Decorate the fillets with fancifully cut slices of truffle, and mask them with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Pound the ham in a mortar, add to it the remainder of foie-gras puree, the veloutee sauce, and the wine, mix well, season with pepper, salt, and paprika, and pass through a fine sieve. Incorporate the aspic jelly (pre- viously whisked to a froth) and the whipped cream. Stir this over the ice until it begins to set, then pour it into a silver-plated round vegetable or entree dish. Keep it on the ice till quite set. Arrange the prepared fillets neatly on top of the mousse farce, and serve. 00578 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Filets de Caneton a la Lorraine. This dish consists of hllets of roast duckling, neatly trimmed and spread over with foie-gras and ham puree, and masked with brown chand-froid sauce and aspic ; decorated with truffle, etc., and dressed on a cold ham mousse border. Filets de Caneton a la Madrid. Duckling braised whole, cut into fillets when cold, masked with mayonnaise aspic, mixed with grated horse-radish and mustard ; garnished with slices of tomatoes, chopped aspic, and small cress. Caneton a la Javanaise. Duckling boned, barded and braised (whole) ; when cold, glazed with demi-glace and aspic ; garnished with vegetable macedoine dressed with aspic, etc., grated horse-radish, and tomatoes ; suitable as cold remove or supper dish. Caneton a la Lambert. Boned duckling, stuffed with foie-gras and truffle farce, rolled and braised ; when cold, cut into round slices, coated with brown chaud-froid sauce, decorated with truffles, white of hard-boiled egg, and masked with aspic jelly. Pate a la Strasbourgeoise {Styashourg Raised Pie). Line an oblong greased Strasbourg pie-mould with nouille paste (p. 134) or hot-water crust (p. 136), rolled out about a quarter of an inch in thickness. This must be done very carefully, and the paste must be pressed well against the sides, so that the pattern of the mould is retained when the pie is baked. Prick the sides and bottom of the lined mould with a fork to prevent blistering. Have ready a forcemeat made of veal, pork, and panade, and line the inside of the mould with this. Fill the mould with alternate layers of thin slices of streaky bacon, slices of veal, slices of fresh lean pork, and farce to which a small quantity of foie-gras has been added. Season each layer with aromatic seasoning and finely powdered herbs. Cover tire top layer with slices of fat bacon. Put on the paste to form the lid, wet the edge so as to merely seal the ends, pinch the edges with a paste-pincher, and garnish the top with fancifully cut leaves of paste ; leave a small hole in the centre for evaporation. Brush over with egg-yolk and bake in a moderate oven for two to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. W'hen nearly cold, fill the pie with savoury aspic. Mousse de Caneton a la Tivollier. I good-sized duckling, a few chicken livers, -f pint well-reduced aspic, I pint veloutee sauce, gill cream, 2 oz. cooked tongue finely shredded, I tablespoonful chutney chopped, i oz. butter, aromatic seasoning. For decoration ; Asjiic jelly, hard-boiled eggs, truffle or pimiento, tomato- flavoured aspic, pistachio nuts, small salad. Roast a duckling, remove all the meat, and prepare a fumet with the carcase, the liquor of which is incorporated with the farce, which is made by pounding the meat of the duckling in a mortar, together with the chicken livers, previously tossed in butter.COLD entri':es. 579 Season with salt, pepper, and aromatics, when sufficiently fine add the fninet liquor, and rub through a fine sieve, stand the basin on ice, and add by clegrees the aspic, velontee sauce, cream, tongue, and lastly the chutney. Have ready a plain timbale mould lined with aspic and suitably decorated with thinly cut slices of hard-boiled j * MOUSSE DE CANETON A LA TIVOLLIER. white of egg, truffle or pimiento. Mask with tomato-flavoured aspic mixed with finely cut strips of pistachio kernels, when set fill up with the prepared mousse and place on the ice. Wffien suffi- ciently set, immould on to an entree dish, insert a small hatelet in the centre, and garnish to taste with cubes or triangles of set aspic, small salad, etc. Chaud-froid de Cailles a la Victoria [Chaud-froid of Quails, Victoria Style). I quails (boned and cleaned). 1 pint aspic jelly (p. 132), gill aspic cream, t gill tomato cream, 4 oz. raw veal (lean), 2 truffles, 4 oz. cooked ham (lean), 2 oz. panade, i egg, r oz. butter, i tablespoonful white sauce, sea- soning, parsley, tarragon, and chervil, mirepoix, i pint stock, a border of cooked rice, a hatelet of financiere. Pound the veal well in a mortar, add and pound the ham and panade, mix in the egg, white sauce, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the quails by means of a forcing-bag with this farce, put a couple of slices of truffle in each bird, wrap them in buttered paper, and braise from about thirty to thirty-five minutes. Mffien cool, cut each bird in half. Line eight small round-top ortolan moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mask one-third part with aspic cream, another with tomato cream, and sprinkle the centre part with finely chopped parsley mixed with a few tarragon and chervil leaves. Place half a quail in each mould, cut side upwards, mix the aspic and tomato cream together, add580 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. some aspic jelly with it, fill the cavities of the mould with this, and place the moulds on the ice to set. Arrange a cooked rice border (cold) on a dish, unmould the shapes and range them neatly on the border, setting one in the centre on a rice shape. Insert a hatelet of financiere, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. Cailles farcies en Caisses aux Petits Pois {Stuffed Quails in Cases, with Green Peas). 6 quails (boned), 8 to lO chicken livers (cleaned), i oz. butter, 2 shallots (small), 4 oz. lean bacon, i small tin foie-gras (size No. 12), i small bouquet garni, pepper and salt, a mirepoix, pint cooked green peas, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, a little aspic and meat glaze, gill white wine, \ gill brown sauce (demi-glace or Espagnole), 12 quail cases. Slice the livers, bacon, and shallots, put altogether in a saute- pan with the butter, add the bouquet of herbs, season with pepper, and let cook over a quick fire for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, pound the remainder till smooth, add the foie-gras (freed from fat and cut into small pieces), and rub through a sieve. (The truffles in the foie-gras should be removed, chopped rather coarsely, and mixed with the farce when finished.) Stuff the quails with this, shape each bird neatly, place them in a braising-pan on a bed of mirepoix, moisten with a little of the wine, cover with buttered paper, and braise in the oven ; when half done add the sauce and the remainder of the wine. Let the birds cool, strain the liquor from the braising-pan into a small stew-pan, remove the fat, reduce'to the consistency of glaze, and coat the quails with this. Mix a little aspic with the meat glaze, and let dissolve over the fire. Cut the quails in halves and place them (cut sides down) on a wire tray. Glaze each with meat glaze and aspic. Season the green peas with pepper, salt, and a little mayonnaise, half fill the quail cases with peas, place the quails on top, and garnish with chopped aspic or rows of green peas round the edge of the cases. Dish up and serve. Cailles en Caisses a 1’Aspic {Quails in Cases with Savoury Jelly). 2 or 3 quails, lb. liver farce, aspic jelly, a mirepoix, i glass sherry, 2 table- spoonfuls meat glaze, souffle cases. Bone the quails, leaving the legs and first joints on each bird, stuff with liver farce, wrap up each bird securely and neatly in a piece of muslin, and tie each end with string. Put the mirepoix in a saute-pan, with sufficient brown stock to cover the vegetables, put in the quails, add the sherry, and braise gently for twenty to thirty minutes. Set to cool, remove the muslin, cut each bird in two lengthways. Have ready at hand some oval souffle cases, line each with a little dressed salad. Mask the surface of each bird with dissolved meat glaze, and when set coat over with a thin coat of aspic jelly. Place each half (cut side down) on to the') papercase. Garnish round the sides with chopped aspic jelly, and serve.COLD ENTR/iES. ScSi Timbale de Cailles en Gelee {Quails Timbale) Bone three or four quails, stuff them with foie-gras and truffles, and braise in the usual manner. When done, take up and let cool and' cut them into slices. Mask a timbale mould with aspic. Range the quails in layers alternately with aspic, and so hll the mould, allow i n g each layer to set on the ice before the next is added. When set, turn out on a round dish, gar- nish with chopped aspic and parsley, and serve. Faisan en Aspic {Pheasant in Savoury Jelly). Take the remains of a roast pheasant, and cut the meat into neat slices, freed from skin and sinew. Put a layer of aspic jelly in the bottom of a timbale mould, decorate it with stars or crescent shapes of slices of truffle and white of egg, leaves of chervil, and stars of red chillies or slices of ox-tongue. When the garnishing has set, arrange the slices of cold pheasant in layers and mask each layer with aspic jelly. The last layer should, of course, be of aspic. Place the mould on the ice to set. W'hen hrm, turn out on to a cold dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Chartreuse de Faisan a la Balmoral {Chartreuse of Pheasant). lb. cold pheasant (freed from skin and bone), 6 or 8 small chicken quenelles, 3 large truffles, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 or 4 cooked cocks’ combs. I j pint aspic jelly, seasoning, i gill Espagnole sauce, i glass sherry, 02. meat glaze, i gill veloutee or bechamel sauce, i gill cream, i hard- boiled egg. Line a charlotte or large timbale mould with aspic. Ornament the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffles and white of egg, hx the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stew-pan, reduce to one-third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tammy. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the inside of the mould. Cut the pheasant meat, mush- rooms, and remainder of truffles into convenient slices or hllets, mix with a sauce composed of Espagnole sauce, sherry, half a pint of aspic, and meat glaze, reduce well, and mix with meat, etc. ; when cooling season the whole to taste, and fill up the mould. Stand on the ice until perfectly firm, immerse in tepid water, and turn out on a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve.,582 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Chartreuse de Cailles a la Reine Eugenie. 4-5 quails, mirepoix, chicken farce, i oz. butter, stock, hard-boiled white of egg, truffles and pistachios, i pint aspic jelly, cooked ham or tongue, French beans and pimientos for garnish, seasoning. Bone the quails and lay out flat on a board skin downwards, season with salt and pepper, then spread over with a layer of chicken farce, put some strips of white of egg and trufiles and peeled pistachio kernels on the farce, then roll up like small galantines, and wrap each bird in a piece of muslin. Cook in mirepoix and butter, and then in stock till tender. Take up, press, and let cool. Mask the inside of a charlotte mould with aspic and decorate fancifully with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, trufiie, and ham or tongue, also cooked French beans and pimientos. Cut the prepared galan- tines of quail into slices, and fill the mould with these and alternate layers of aspic jelly. Allow each layer of aspic to set before adding the next. When the mould is filled, place it on the ice for 1-2 hours, then turn out on a cold dish, garnish the dish tastefully and serve. Chartreuse de Cailles en Surprise [Chartreuse of Quails). 4 quails, 2 large truffles, 3 chillies, i tin natural foie-gras, i pint stock, chicken farce (p. 178), 2 hard-boiled eggs, champignons, peas, and carrot for garnish, seasoning, chand-froid sauce and aspic. Bone the quails, make a fumet of the carcases, add the stock to it, reduce well and strain. Stuff the boned quails with chicken farce and a good-sized piece of foie-gras, wrap up each in a small piece of muslin cloth, cook in the stock for thirty minutes, let cool, remove the muslin, and cut them in halves lengthways. Line eight small quenelle shells with a thin layer of aspic, decorate with fine strips of truffle and chilli or red capsicum ; mask with a brown or white chaud-froid sauce, lay in each half a quail, surround the sides with sauce, and place on the ice to set. Dress on a dish with aCOLD ENTRIES. S«3 small cup-shapcd base in centre, replete with a mushroom studded with truffle, and surround the dish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs having the yolks hidden with a round piece of truffle. Garnish with cucumber slices and aspic. Timbales de Faisan a la Rothschild [Timbales of Pheasant). I small pheasant, i braised sweetbread, 3 truffles, Madere .sauce, i gill cream, aspic jelly, supreme sauce, seasoning. Mask the inside of eight timbale moulds (size 2) with a thin layer of aspic jelly, when set decorate the bottom and sides neatly with thinly cut slices of truffle. Let them remain on ice until set, then mask the decoration with a layer of well-reduced supreme sauce, into which 2-3 leaves of dissolved aspic have been incorporated. Strip the Ifesh from the breast and wings of a good pheasant, pound till smooth in a mortar, adding the cream, a grate of nut- meg, and salt and pepper. Rub through a fine sieve, and place on ice. Butter eight tim- bale moulds, a size smaller than those before used, partially fill them with the prepared farce, but leave the centre of each mould hollow. Prepare a ragout with the sweetbread, cut into dice, mixed with the trimmings of truffle chopped coarsely, and moisten with a little sauce. Put about a dessertspoonful of this into each mould, fill up with the remainder of the farce, and poach first on the stove and then in the oven for thirty minutes in all. When half cold, turn out into a cloth, and put on the ice to get cold quickly. Place them carefully into the masked and decorated moulds, and fill up the sides with aspic. Allow the moulds to set, then turn out and dish up smartly, as shown in the illustration, Petites Cremes de Faisan [Little Pheasant Creams). 8 oz. cooked pheasant meat, pint veloutee or allemande sauce, -V oz, gelatine, i gill cream, i gill asj ic, i gherkin, 2 red chillies, teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, seasoning.584 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mask the inside of eight or ten little timbales or dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate with little fancifully cut pieces of gherkin and chillies, put on the ice to set. Free the meat from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Heat up the sauce, soak the gelatine, and let it dissolve in the sauce, mix the sauce with the pounded meat, add the lemon-rind, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Put through a fine hair sieve, when cooled a little whip the cream and add to the mixture. Fill up the moulds with this, place on the ice to set. Turn out and dish up. Decorate with chopped aspic, and serve. Ortolans en Chaud-froid. Braised stuffed ortolan shaped into galantine, masked with fawn chaud-froid sauce. Cut into halves or slices, dished up, garnished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables and chopped aspic jelly. Mauviettes a la Lucullus. Boned and stuffed larks, braised, cooled, and masked with brown chaud-froid sauce, and decorated with truffles in souffle cases, dished, and surmounted with a thin border of green peas. Mauviettes a 1’Aspic {Larks in Savoury Jelly). Bone from eight to twelve larks, fill them with liver farce, wrap up each lark tightly in a small piece of muslin, braise in a rich stock, and put to cool. Line as many small oblong moulds as there are larks with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, also a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Allow the decoction to set. Unwrap the larks, put one in each mould, fill up the rest with aspic, and place on the ice to set. Unmould, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Galantine de Perdreaux {Partridge Galantine). Carefully bone three or four plump partridges, and in doing this see that the skin is in no way torn. Cut open each bird length- ways down the back, and spread out on a board (skin downwards), season with salt and pepper, and spread with a layer of chicken forcemeat. Upon this place long strips of cooked ham and tongue, peeled pistachio nuts, and rather thickly-cut slices of truffles. Add another layer of forcemeat and roll up each carefully, tie up in. napkins or pudding-cloths, and cook in stock for about one and a quarter hour. When done, press the galantines between two boards, and allow to get cold. Remove the cloth, coast or mask the galantines with meat glaze or brown chaud-froid sauce (p. 144). Decorate to taste and fancy, dish up, garnish with cold aspic jelly round the base of the dish, and serve. Gradins de Faisan a la Mancelle. The meat of half a pheasant (cooked), i pint aspic, 2 truffles (large), 4 oz. chestnut puree, 4 gill brown chaud-froid sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls meat giaze, melted, .seasoning, socle of rice. Salad and set aspic for garnish. Coat eight or ten very small bouche or dariole moulds with aspic jelly, decorate the sides and bottom of each with strips of truffle.585 COU) ENTRJiES. Pound-the pheasant till smooth, add to it the chest- nut puree, season to taste, and moisten with chaud- froid sauce and meat glaze. Spread this on a clean baking-sheet about inch in thickness, and place on the ice to set. Then cut out as many rounds, by means of a paste-cutter, as may be required, and till the prepared moulds with them, allowing a thin layer of aspic between each round of puree. Turn ont and arrange neatly on the rice socle, till the centre with a well-dressed salad, and garnish the base of the dish with set aspic cut into fancy shapes, Chaud-froid de Perdreaux (Chaud-froid of Paytridge). 2 roast partridges, pint brown chaud-froid sauce, i crisp lettuce, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, i cucumber, i hard-boiled egg, 8 stuffed olives, i pint aspic jelly, mayonnaise sauce. Cut the partridges into neat pieces, free them from skin and trim, mask each piece completely with a pale-brown chaud-froid sauce. When set, run over sufficient half-set aspic to mask them. Prepare a bed of mixed salad in the centre of a dish, arrange the pieces of partridge neatly in a pile on the salad, placing the breast pieces on top. Garnish with slices of tomato, cucumber, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stuffed olives, and chopped aspic jelly. A bed of cooked rice, or a border of cooked rice, as a foundation, will improve the appearance of the dish and facilitate the dressing. The rice should be coated with chaud-froid sauce, and masked with aspic. Ballotine de Perdreau, Souvaroff. This consists of boned partridge stuffed with goose-liver farce and truffles, done up like galantine, and braised, then pressed, glazed, and cut into slices, dished up and garnished with choppecl aspic. Supreme de Sarcelle a I’Orange [Supreme of Teal or Wild Duck). I teal or wild duck, 6 small oranges (even size and smooth skins), i oz. butter, \ gill cream, i foie-gras naturel, aromatic seasoning. Krona pepper, orange aspic jelly, rice socle, glace cherries, orange salad, pimientos, brown chaud-froid sauce. Immerse the duck in boiling water for a few seconds, then bone it, using the carcase for stock. Cut the fillets into neat round- shaped slices, season them with salt and Krona pepper, saute them in butter over a slow fire, drain and press till cold. Toss the trim- mings of the duck in butter, pomid well in a mortar, add the foie- gras previously sliced, seasoning and cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate enough orange aspic to just set this farce, which must be of light consistency, like a mousse. Cut four of the oranges across through the centre, in a zig-zag fashion, with the point of a knife carefully remove pulp and pith, taking care not to damage the pointed edges of the skin. Fill the shapes with the moi;sse, and smooth the surface with a knife. Trim the fillets, coat one side of each with a thin layer of the mousse, place half a glace cherry in the centre, mask with chaud-froid sauce which, when SUGGESTED DECORATION.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S86 sauce, I gill aspic jelly, aromatic seasoning. set, must be coated with half-set orange aspic. Dress the orange shapes on a socle of rice, and garnish the dish tastefully with orange salad and pimiento strips. Timbale de Pintade a la Marechale [Timhale of Guinea-Fowl). I small giunea-fowl, -J- pint Espagnole sauce, onion, carrot, 2 oz. bacon, I oz. butter, i bunch herbs, ^ oz. gelatine, f pint aspic jelly, ^ gill tomato pulp, i|- gill cream, 6 stuffed olives (olives farcies), i truffle, tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Braise the bird with the butter, bacon, and vegetables until tender, when cold, remove the bones and skin, and pound the flesh in a mortar. Dissolve the gelatine in a little stock, add it to the Espagnole sauce, strain, and mix with the puree in the mortar. Season to taste, stir in a tablespoonful of cream, and rub through a fine sieve. Meanwhile, mix one gill of aspic (liquid) with half a gill of cream, and pour on a plate to cool. Mix the tomato pulp with an equal quantity of aspic and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and set likewise on a plate. Line a fancy mould thinly with aspic jelly, set the stuffed olives at the bottom by means of a little aspic. Stamp out some rounds, stars, or any other pretty shapes of aspic cream and tomato cream (previously set), and garnish the sides of the mould with these, placing here and there a thin round of truffle. Melt the trimmings of aspic and tomato creams and mix with the prepared puree; when nearly cold, add the remainder of the cream, previously whipped, mix well, and pour into the mould. When set, unmould on to cold dish. Put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish and serve. Partridge, snipe, grouse or other game may be served in the same manner. Cotelettes de Gibier a I’Etoile {Game Cutlets). 6 oz. cooked game, J oz. gelatine, i pint aspic jelly, i truffle, chilli, i gill tomato sauce, 4 oz. foie-gras pate, li gill salmi sauce (p. 159), a handful of vermicelli stars, endive, cucumber, rice border, and seasoning. Pound the game in a mortar with the foie-gras, add to it the sauce in which the gelatine has been introduced, season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and aromatics, and rub through a fine sieve. Cook the vermicelli stars in salted water, containing a little lemon- juice, strain, and cool. Line a number of cutlet-moulds with aspic, garnish them with vermicelli stars, filling the centre of each little star alternately with red chilli and truffle. Fill up with the prepared puree before it begins to set firm, and put the mould on ice. Pre- pare a border-mould by lining it with aspic, decorate the sides with stars of cucumber, truffle, etc. Coat with tomato sauce mixed with enough aspic to make it set, three-parts fill with cooked rice (cold), and fill up with aspic. Allow the border to set, turn out on a dish when quite firm, and place a wax figure in the centre. Turn out the cutlets, and arrange them neatly round the top of the border. Garnish with slices of cucumber and endive, and serve. Petits Pains de Gibier a la Chevalier. 6 oz. cooked game (any kind), 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 large table- spoonfuls cream, i truffle, i hard-boiled egg-yolk, i tablespoonful bechamelset, turn out, dish up, and serve. COLD ENTREES. 587 Mask the bottoms of six or eight small moulds with aspic and decorate them with truffles or peas, mix the remainder of aspic with the cream, coat the inside of the moulds with this, and stand on the ice to set. Free the game from skin and sinew's, cut the ham and game into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add sauce and the yolk of egg, season with a good pinch of aromatic seasoning, and rub through a hne sieve. Chop the remainder of the truffle finely, mix with the above mixture, add the remainder of aspic and cream while the latter is liquid, fill up the moulds, cover with a layer of aspic, and place on the ice. M’hen thoroughly Terrine de Gibier a la Suisse {Terrine of Game). This dish forms one of the most delicious delicacies, and is very popular in Switzerland and France. The dish is suitable for a cold entree, as a ball si:pper dish, or for other occasions wdrere a cold collation is desired. Almost any kind of game can be used — pheasant, partridge, snipe, hare, or venison. Free the meat from bone, skin, and gristle, weigh it and allow' half its weight in fresh pork (lean and fat). For two pounds of game use one pound of pork. Pass these twice through a mincing machine, or chop very finely by hand, then pound in a mortar and rub through a wire sieve. Peel and chop finely four to six small shallots, fry them a golden colour in one ounce of butter, add six finely crushed juniper berries and a small glass of cognac, a gill of red wine (claret or Burgundy). Cover the pan in w'hich this is put and let boil fast for three minutes. Add it to the farce (pounded and sieved meat), season w'ith salt, white pepper, mignonette pepper, paprika, a little ground mace and grated nutmeg, about a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning, and mix thoroughly. Line a fireproof tureen W’ith thin slices of fat bacon. Place in a layer of farce, and fill up the tureen with alternate layers of raw' ham and farce. The top layer should be of thin slices of fat bacon. Put the tureen in a moderate oven and bake for one and a quarter hour. Pour off the fat W'hich will have accumulated on the top of the meat. When cold, pour over a sufficient quantity of w'ell-rednced aspic or savoury jelly. The top may, if liked, be decorated with fancifully-cut slices of hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles. Bordure de Lievre a la Bergere [Border of Hare). I small hare, f lb. fresh pork, lb. bacon, 2 truffles, 2 oz. butter, 6 oz. panade, 3 eggs, 3 shallots, i glass Madeira, i gill aspic jelly, i hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Remove the breasts and the fleshy parts of legs of the hare. SUGGESTED DECORATIONS.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S88 cut it into small slices, also slice the pork and bacon. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallots, finely chopped, brown a little, put in the sliced meat (the liver of hare may also be added if liked), season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, saute over the fire until of a nice brown, moisten with Madeira, and, when cool, pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade and the eggs one by one. Cut the truffles into slices, stamp out some fanciful shapes and keep for garnish, chop finely the trimmings, and mix with the farce. Rub the whole through a wire sieve, fill up a well-buttered border-mould, put in a saute- or braising-pan containing boiling water, to reach half-way up the mould. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderately-heated oven for about one and a quarter hour. Let it stand on the ice till cool, then turn on to a cold dish. Mask over carefully with half-set aspic jelly, ornament the top of the border with truffle shapes and fancifully-cut slices of hard-boiled white of egg. Coat the garnish with a little aspic, put a few sprigs of fresh parsley here and fhere, and serve. The remainder of the hare will be found very useful for hare soup, game sauce for stock, etc, Pate de Lievre a I’Anglaise {Hare Pie). This consists of a young hare cut into small joints, placed into a large pie-dish, with alternate layers of veal and pork forcemeat, slices of bacon and liver. Seasoned with salt and pepper and moistened with stock it is then covered with puff-paste crust, and baked in a moderate oven. Pate de Lievre a la Fran^aise [French Raised Pie of Hare), Prepare a raised pie-crust (hot- water paste), and line with it a raised pie mould, and fill it with boned pieces of partially-fried hare and alternate layers of forcemeat, slices of bacon, and mushrooms, season and moisten with stock, then cover and ornament with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Pate de Mauviettes a I’Anglaise [English Lark Pie). FRENCH HARE PIE. I dozen larks, about | lb. lean beef, lb. streaky bacon, i|- gill stock, 5 to 6 oz. breadcrumbs, i small teaspoonful finely chopped lemon-rind, 2 tea- spoonfuls chopped parsley, i tablespoonful chopped ham, i shallot finely chopped, I yolk of egg, puff-paste, pepper and salt. This is a lark pie made after the true English fashion, and a most highly-appreciated dish, not only in England, but as w'ell in various parts of the Continent. The larks for this dish are best if boned, though this is not essential. Make a stuffing with the breadcrumbs, shallot, half the chopped parsley, lemon-rind, chopped ham, and the egg-yolk, add a little water or stock if found necessary, and season to taste. Roll the birds in Hour, and fill them with the stufflng. Cut the beef and bacon into very thin slices. Line the bottom of aCOLD SERVICE DISHES. 589 large pie-dish with beef and bacon, season to taste and sprinkle with parsley, place the birds on this, arrange them neatly, lill np the dish with the remainder of bacon and beef, season again, and moisten with the stock. Cover the dish with puff-paste, ornament the centre tastefully (allowing a small incision in the middle for the steam to escape while cooking), brush over with egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour. Serve hot or cold. Raised Game Pie [Pate de Gihier). i J lb. Hour, it gill milk, 6 oz. butter, the yolk of an egg, pepper, salt’ cayenne, and nutmeg, i lb. veal, i lb. fresh pork, all kinds of game, such as : pheasant, grouse, or pigeons, larks, or else quails—some of each ; ^ lb. ham, liver farce, or foie-gras, i tablespoonful chopped mushrooms, i table- spoonful chopped truffles, i teaspoonful chopped parsley and pistachios, t pint good stock, chopped aspic. Make a paste of the flour, mixing the butter and milk into it hot, add the yolk of egg, a little salt, mi.x and knead well. Line a raised pie-motdd with this paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Mince the veal and pork together, season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg, and place the mince all round the mould inside the paste. Fill in the centre with fillets of pigeon, and pheasant, or grouse, or else use strips of ham, larks, and quails stuffed Muth liver farce, sprinkle in the chopped mush- rooms, truffles, pistachios, and parsley, a little pepper and salt, and cover over with mince. Wet and lay on the top the paste round cover, close it 'veil round the edge, trim it, and work up the trimmings of paste to make an ornament for the top. Tie a band of buttered paper round the mould about three inches above the top, and bake in a steady oven for three hours. When the pie is f'nearly cold, move the top ornament of paste, and pour in about half a pint of good stock—not too liquid, or it will soak through the paste—replace the ornament, and when quite cold dish up the pie. Garnish it with chopped aspic and parsley. CEufs de Pluvier en Aspic [Plovers' Eggs in Savoury Jelly). Plovers’ eggs (boiled and shell removed), set in aspic or savoury jelly, in small moulds (egg or dariole or timbale moulds), suitably decorated with vegetable macedoine or green peas and truffles.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S90 CEufs de Penguin a la Carola [Mayonnaise of Penguins’ Eggs). 4 penguin eggs (hard-boiled), 4 oz. boiled rice, j small lobster, gill bechamel sauce, -1 gill cream i gill mayonnaise, i dessertspoonful curry powder, | oz. butter, i desser!spoonful pimiento cut into fine strips or small dice, seasoning : lemon and beetroot for decoration. Melt the butter in a small stew-pan, and put in the curry powder, fry a little, then add the bechamel sauce and a little lemon-juice ; boil up and cook for six minutes, let cool, and add the half-gill of cream. Cut the penguin eggs into slices, reserving a few for decora- tion, and cut the rest into dice shapes or strips. Cut the meat of the lobster into small dice and mix both with the rice, season with salt, pepper, and paprika or Krona seasoning; add also the chopped pimiento, then moisten with the prepared sauce and about half the mayonnaise ; keep this on the ice until required. Shape the mixture neatly on to a round dish, piled up in dome fashion, then coat the surface with whipped cream and mayonnaise, blended together. Decorate with slices of penguin eggs, thinly-cut lemon, and beetroot slices. Put a little of the mayonnaise cream into a cornet or forcing bag, and ornament the top according to taste, then serve. Chartreuse Moderne a PEdouard VII. Mask the inside of an E.R. mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; place the mould in a pan of crushed ice. Chop very finely a large black truffle, and mix it with enough half-set aspic to form a paste- like mixture. Stir it till nearly cold, put it in a paper cornet and fill with it the letters E.R. in the mould. Next mix a hard-boiled egg (rubbed through a sieve) with a little aspic, and fill in the crown shape. Blend together pint supreme sauce, flavoured with curry powder and paste, with gill of aspic, pour a layer of this into the mould so as to cover the bottom and sides of the mould. Pre- pare a salpicon of cooked fillets of chicken, lobster meat, and sweet-591 COLD ENTRl^ES. bread, all cut into shreds, not too finely. Mix this with the re- mainder of the sauce and the aspic. Season with salt, pepper, and a good pinch of aromatic spice. Add a small glass of Madere or marsala, and fill with it the mould. Put it in a well-charged ice-box for about two hours. Unmould the shape, dish it up, and garnish the dish tastefully with slices of pimientos and lettuce hearts. Zephires en Aspic a la Montglas. Mask the interior of six to eight oval fluted zephire-moulds with a thin coating of aspic, which must be perfectly clear, when set sprinkle the sides and bottom wdth finely chopped truffles and -hard-boiled egg rubbed through a wire sieve. Pour a thin layer of white chaud-froid sauce or aspic cream over this and allow to set. Prepare a mixture composed of equal parts of cooked chicken fillets, ox-tongue, truffles, and champignons (mushrooms), all cut into julienne strips, moisten with ma^mnnaise cream or white chaud-froid sauce and season to taste. Fill the moulds with this, finish with a layer of aspic. Put the moulds on the ice for about fifteen minutes, then turn out on a cold dish. Garnish with chopped set aspic, slices of lemon, cucumber, and parsley, and serve immediately. DARIOLES DE POULET A LA DIPLOMATE. {See page 559.)592 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXVI. REMOVES—RELEVES. The general rule is that roast or braised joints should be served under this heading. Whatever the remove is, the dish demands the accompaniment of a vegetable, which is served separately or else as a garnish. The French bone most of their joints, and usually dish them up with some kind of garniture. Boiled meat is also at times served as remove. The most popular dishes served for fhis course are saddle of mutton or lamb, leg of mutton or lamb, shoulder of mutton or lamb, neck and loin of mutton, haunch of mutton or lamb, fricandeau of veal, sirloin or ribs of beef, fillet of beef, venison, deer, wild boar, ham, braised or baked. In abbre- viated dinners, where no poultry is introduced in other courses, a roast or boiled turkey, fowl or capon is sometimes served as a remove or releve. Common-place joints, such as roast beef, mutton, lamb, etc., are not included in the recipes, as roasting is fully dealt with in Chapter VIII. The correct order of serving the remove or releve is immediately after the entrees, but on the Continent, and occasionally in England and America, these dishes are served after the fish course. BCEUF BEEF. Aloyau de Boeuf a la Godard {Sirloin of Beef a la Godard). About 6 lb. sirloin of beef, lb. bacon, i sliced carrot, i sliced onion, i bouquet of herbs, i gill sherry or Sauterne, pint tomato sauce, i gill brown sauce, i pint stock, 2 truffles, 8 mushrooms, 3 artichoke bottoms, ^ cooked sweetbread, 8 small chicken quenelles (p. 178), pepper and salt. Remove the bones of the loin, and trim neatly. Cut the bacon into strips about one inch and a half long. Make some holes in the meat by means of a wooden skewer, and insert the strips of bacon. Roll and tie hrmly. Put the onion, carrot, and bouquet of herbs in a braising-pan, lay fhe piece of beef on fhis, moisten with the wine and stock, season with pepper and salt, and braise for fwo hours in a moderately-heated oven, basting the meat from time to time. Skim off the fat, add the tomato and brown sauce, previously warmed, cook for another three-quarters of an hour. Take up the meat, keep hot, free the sauce from fat, and strain, boil for another ten minutes. Add the garnishing of preserved mushroom-heads, quartered artichoke bottoms, small pieces of sweetbread, slices of truffles and quenelles. When the latter is thoroughly hot, untie the piece of beef, dish up on a small bed of593 REMOVES—RELEV HS. mashed potatoes, surround with groups of quenelles, sweetbread, mushrooms, artichokes, etc. Pour some of the sauce over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat along with the dish. Filet de Boeuf a la Brillat-Savarin {Braised Fillet of Beef). Procure the centre-piece (about four pounds) of hllet of beef, remove fat and sinews, lard the top with strips of truffles, cover it with a layer of sliced vegetables, bard it with slices of fat pork, and tie up with string. Put it in an oblong braising-tin or baking- pan, season with aromatic spice and salt, moisten with half a pint of white wine and some stock or water, set it in a moderate oven for about one hour, and baste occasionally. When done, drain and keep warm, strain the gravy, remove the fat, put it into a stew-pan with a pint of brown sauce, one glass of Madeira wine, and let all boil until well reduced. Next remove the string, fat, and vege- tables from the hllet, trim, dish up on a crouton of fried bread, garnish round the hllet with alternate groups of slices of braised sweetbread, small glazed button onions, and mushroom-heads, sauce over the whole with part of the prepared sauce, and serve the remainder separately. Pieces of braised calves’ brains can be served with this dish as a garnishing when desired. Filet de Boeuf a la Cyrano {Hot or Cold Remove). 3 lbs. sirloin of beef (boned), i plover or snipe, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. bacon, 2 oz. cooked ham, lb. calves’ or chicken’s liver, small onion, i shallot, I clove of garlic, i bay-leaf, i egg, i terrine foie-gras, salt and pepper, I gill sherry, larding bacon, 12 stuffed olives, gill stock, meat glaze for the olives, 13 very small cases of puff-paste, i mirepoix of vegetables, etc., sauce Gibier. Bone the plover or snipe, chop the carcase very small, mince the meat of the bird hnely and put it on a plate. Slice the liver. Melt about half the butter in a stew-pan, fry the bacon (cut into dice) and the liver quickly, then add the slicecl onion, shallot, garlic, bay-leaf, and wine, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, cover, and simmer for twenty minutes. Remove the slices of onion and bay- leaf, pound the remainder in a mortar, bind and moisten with the yolk of an egg and a little brown sauce or cream, if needed, and rub through a hne sieve. Remove the skin and fat, cut the meat open lengthways, so that it forms one large slice of even thickness, beat out a little with a cutlet-bat, and spread with a layer of farce. Put one row of foie-gras pate down the centre of the farce, insert the fillets of snipe, previously skinned, and roll up carefully, so that the foie-gras is kept in the centre. Fasten and tie up with string, then lard the surface with several rows of hne strips of larding bacon. Put the carcase of the bird, a clove of garlic, and mirepoix of vegetables, etc., with some pieces of bacon, in a braising-pan, upon this place the prepared hllet, moisten with about a gill of stock, and braise in a sharp oven for the hrst ten minutes ; baste well, and hnish braising in a slightly reduced heat for about one hour. Add the meat glaze at the last and baste the whole with the liquor well reduced. Take up the hllet, untruss it, and let it get cold. PPTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 594 Dress it on an oblong entree or releve dish, glaze it again with the reduced liquor, freed from fat, garnish the dish with stuffed French or Spanish olives, each being placed in a little crust of puff-paste. Insert one or two hatelets (garnished) and serve. This dish can also be served hot with a nice sauce Gibier or Reforme. Filet de Boeuf a la Henri IV. {Fillet of Beef, Henry IV. Style). About 4 lb. fillet of beef (a nice piece), larding bacon, bouquet garni, I carrot, i onion, i gill claret, ^ lb. streaky bacon, i pint good stock, sauce Tartare, pint well-reduced demi-glace sauce, meat glaze, 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, -} pint macedoine of vegetables, 2 oz. butter, chopped parsley, I oz. coarsely chopped lean ham. Trim the fillet of beef, pare off the fat and skin, lard the top side with strips of bacon, tie up neatly here and there with string, so as to retain its shape. Place the vegetables, bacon, herbs, and I ounce of butter in a braising-pan, put the meat on top, and season lightly. Put it in a quick oven or over a brisk fire just long enough to slightly brown the surface of the fillet, then moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper and the lid, braise slowly in the oven or on the side of the stove, basting frequently. Take up the fillet before it is cooked through, take off the fat, add the demi-glace sauce, reduce to the desired consistency, then strain into a saute-pan, remove the string from the fillet, and place it in the pan with the sauce, and keep hot. In the meantime heat up the fonds d’artichauts (artichokes) in a little stock, drain well, and coat the interior with liquid meat glaze, heat up the macedoine, saute them in a little butter, add the ham, some chopped parsley, a pinch of sugar and pepper and salt, toss lightly, and keep hot. Dish up the fillet on a crouton of bread (this is far better for carving than placing it on the dish without a bed), larded side upwards, fill the artichoke bottoms with the macedoine, arrange these neatly on either side of the fillet. Put a teaspoonful of tartare sauce on top of the macedoine, with a tiny pinch of red pepper to finish. Pour a little sauce over the fillet, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. If the fillet needs it, brush over the larded side with meat glaze as it leaves the oven. Filet de Boeuf a la Louis XV. {Fillet of Beef, Louis XV. Style). Procure a piece of fillet (middle cut) about four to five pounds in weight, pare off the fat and sinews, trim neatly, lard it lengthways with small strips of fat bacon, and put it in a baking-tin with one glass of sherry wine, a tablespoonful of dripping, a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip. Season with salt and pepper, roast it in a quick oven from forty to fifty minutes, or longer if you wish it to be well done, and baste it well meanwhile. Take out the fillet, pour off the fat left in the tin, add to the liquid a pint of thin brown sauce and a teaspoonful of extract of meat, let simmer for a few minutes, skim, and strain. Have ready a croustade of bread large enough to hold the fillet, fix same on an oblong dish, glaze the surface of the fillet with dissolved meat glaze, place it in the centre of the croustade, garnish round the dish with groups of stuffed fried potatoes, and serve the sauce separately with the dish.REMO VES—RELE VlzS. 595 Filet de Boeuf a la Metropole [Fillet of Beef, MHropolc Style). A piece of fillet of beef, larding bacon, i glass of sherry or Madeira, i glass of Chablis or Sauterne, i onion, i carrot, i bay-leaf, i sprig of thyme, a few sprigs parsley, i tablespoonful sweet oil, 12 peppercorns, salt, 2 truffles, 4 artichoke bottoms, a few chicken forcemeat quenelles (p. 178), pint Espagnole sauce, i gill tomato sauce, 4 oz. rice cooked in stock, 1 pint stock or consomme, dauphine potato croquettes. Pare and trim the fillet into neat shape, lard the surface with strips of fat bacon, put it in a deep dish or pan, sprinkle with a little salt, and pour over the wine. Add the carrot and onion, peeled and sliced, the bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, peppercorns, and oil, cover and let it soak in marinade for twelve hours, and turn it occasionally. Roast the fillet in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, baste well with dripping or butter. It must be still under- done [saignant) when taken up. Use preserved artichoke bottoms, put them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a little stock or consomme, and warm up in the oven. Strain the liquor in which the fillet has been marinaded into the stew-pan, boil up, and add the sauces. Let the whole simmer for ten minutes, skim off the fat, and keep hot. Cut the truffles into thin slices or small dice, poach the chicken quenelles in stock or consomme, strain and moisten with a little sauce, add the truffles with the quenelles, drain the artichoke bottoms, and fill them with the above. Place the fillet on a neatly-shaped bed of cooked rice on an oblong dish, garnish with the filled artichoke bottoms and dauphine potato croquettes. Brush over the fillet with some liquid meat glaze, and serve with the sauce, which should be sent to table separately. Filet de Boeuf a la Xeres [Fillet of Beef, Xer'cs Style). About 3 lb. middle cut of fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, about i lb. cooked ox-tongue, larding bacon, i glass port, i gill stock, 6 artichoke bottoms, green peas, new potatoes, tomato sauce, pepper and salt. Pare the fillet, removing the skin and part of the fat. By means of a wooden skewer make a slit through the centre of the fillet (outside) and insert the piece of ox-tongue, neatly trimmed, into the opening made. Lard the surface of the fillets with strips of fat bacon. Butter a saute or oblong flat braisiere, put in the fillet, larded side upwards, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttei'ed paper and cook in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, until it acquires a nice colour. Moisten with a gill of rich stock and a glass of port wine, continue to cook until done according to requirements, which is usually underdone [saignant). When ready for table, glaze the fillet and place it on a croute of bread or bed of rice neatly shaped. Put about a gill of tomato sauce with the liquor in which the fillet was cooked, let the whole reduce, then strain. Cook the peas and toss them in a little fresh butter. Warm up the artichoke bottoms, fill up each with peas and place them round the dish, also the potatoes, which should be ready boiled and fried whole in butter. The sauce is best served separately.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 596 Boiled Beef or Mutton. Wipe the meat, cut off any superfluous fat, and weigh the joint. Put the meat into a stew-pan of boiling water, sufflcient to cover it. Season with salt, and let boil fast for five minutes to harden the outside. Remove the scum, add some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, and let simmer gently until tender. Average time allowed for cooking is twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Salted or pickled meat should be placed in cold or tepid water, and must be brought slowly to the boil. Boiled beef is served with a garnishing of cooked carrots and turnips and small suet dumplings. Boiled mutton is garnished with vegetables—i.e. carrots, turnips, and onions—and served with caper sauce. Braised Beef a la Mode {Bceuf braise a la Mode). 3 to 4 lb. rump of beef, larding bacon, a piece of lemon, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, | an onion, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i quart stock, 2 carrots, 8 to lO small button onions, a bouquet garni (p. 122), a glass of claret, pepper and salt. Trim the meat, which must be free from bones, insert some strips of larding bacon, place the meat in a basin, season with salt and pepper, add the lemon, wine, bay-leaf, thyme, and the onion sliced, and let it remain for several hours. Take up the meat, drain well, and fry it in butter until nicely browned. Place the meat on a dish, stir the flour into the fat, etc., in which the meat was fried, let it brown, then add the marinade, stock, and bouquet garni, let it come to a boil, and skim. Replace the beef, add the sliced carrot and onions (the latter are better if slightly fried). Simmer gently for about one and a half to two hours. Dish up the meat, skim the fat off the sauce and strain over the beef, arrange the carrots and onions in groups round the dish, and serve. A clove of crushed garlic added to the sauce at an early stage will impart a flavour which is much appreciated by connoisseurs. Piece de Boeuf braisee a la Vert-Pre [Braised Rump of Beef). Braise a piece of rump of beef, weighing from four to five pounds, in the usual manner. Prepare meanwhile the garniture vert-pre, which consists of a selection of green vegetables, such as French beans, flageolets, green peas, small timbales of spinach or chicory, cooking each one separately. Dish up the beef, whole or cut into slices, whichever is preferred, garnish the base of the dish with groups of the vegetables named, and serve with a nicely-flavoured demi-glace sauce. Aloyau de Boeuf braise.—Braised sirloin of beef. — a la Flamande.—Braised sirloin of beef, garnished with groups of garden vegetables. — a la Nivernaise.—Braised sirloin of beef, with young turnips and French carrots, glazed. Boeuf bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled salt beef, with carrots, turnips, and suet dumplings.REMO VES—RELE VllS. 597 Bceuf bouilli a la Franpaise.—Boiled top or silver side of beef, garnished with carrots, turnips, and cabbage. — bouilli a la Russe.—Boiled rump or top side of beef, served with cucum- ber salad and cold horse-radish sauce. — a la Bernoise.—Braised top side or rump, with stewed nouilles and baked potatoes, brown sauce or gravy. — a la C61estine.—Roast sirloin of beef, garnished with small baked potatoes and rolls of stuffed pancakes cut into one-inch pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — a la Jardiniere.—Parboiled and braised rump or sirloin of beef (boned), garnished with small spring vegetables. — a la Lorraine.—Roast sirloin of beef, garnished with braised button onions, mashed potatoes, and braised spring cabbages. — a la Palermo.—Roast rib or sirloin of beef (boned), garnished with braised potatoes and small pieces of stuffed cucumber or vegetable marrow. — a la Piemontaise.—Roast boned ribs of beef, garnished with timbales of cooked rice or macaroni, flavoured with tomato and saffron, and fried potatoes. Cote de Bceuf braisee.—Braised boned ribs of beef, served with brown sauce or gravy. — a la Normande.—Braised ribs of beef (boned), garnished with mashed potatoes and young braised and glazed carrots. — a la Saint Hubert.—Roast or braised ribs of beef (boned), garnished with stuffed braised cabbages, lettuces, and glazed button onions. Filet de Bceuf a I’Ancienne.—Braised fillet of beef (whole), garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed and fried, braised haricot beans, and braised lettuces. — a la BrabanQonne.—Fillet of beef trimmed whole, larded, and put in marinade for twenty-four hours, braised slowly, essence of braise used for sauce ; garniture : carrots and turnips, round or olive shapes, baked potato puree in the form of small cakes, Brussels sprouts puree, spinach and soubise (onion puree), all dressed in groups round the base of the fillet ; brown sauce served separately. — en Chevreuil.—Larded fillet of beef pickled in red wine marinade and braised, served with piquante sauce. — a la Clairemont.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished with baked kidney potatoes and glazed chestnuts. — a la Palestine.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished with braised Jerusalem artichokes, parsnips, and button onions ; braise sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished with small marble-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Paysanne.—Braised fillet of beef (whole), garnished with celery, turnips, carrots, and new kidney potatoes, browned in the oven. — a la Richelieu. — Larded and braised fillet of beef (whole), garnished with stuffed tomatoes, truffles, and preserved white mushrooms.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 598 Filet de Boeuf a la Strasbourgeoise.—Roast fillet of beef (whole), garnished with sauerkraut (pickled white cabbages), slices of rolled braised ham, smoked sausage, and mashed potafoes. — a la Toscane.—Roast larded fillet of beef (whole), garnished wifh artichoke bottoms, stuffed fomatoes, and small braised Brussels sprouts, tossed in butter ; brown sauce or gravy. Langue de Boeuf braisee.—Braised smoked ox-tongue, usually served with spinach. MOUTON ET AGNEAU—MUTTON AND LAMB. Carre de Mouton braise aux Nouilles {Bvaised Neck of Mutton with Nouilles). A neck of mutton (best end), i oz. butter, i onion peeled and cut into quarters, 3 or 4 slices of streaky bacon, a small bouquet garni, 3 or 4 small carrots (cleaned and cut into pieces), 2 cloves, } pint stock, pint Espagnole sauce, pepper and salt, nouilles (p. 134). Bone and trim the meat, fold in the thin end and tie with twine. Melt the butter in a braising-pan, fry the onion, cloves, and bouquet a little, put in the neck and bacon, and brown the meat on both sides. Add the carrots and stock, season with pepper and salt, let the whole simmer for about an hour, then add the brown sauce, and finish cooking in the oven with a lid over the pan. When done, take up the meat, remove the string, and keep hot. Strain the sauce, skim off the fat, add a glass of sherry, boil up again, and reduce a little. Dress the neck (whole or cut into slices) on a bed of prepared nouilles (boiled in stock, strained and seasoned). Sauce over carefully, garnish fhe sides with groups of nouilles, and serve very hot. A little sauce may be sent to table separately in a sauce-boat. Epaule de Mouton farcie {Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton). I small shoulder of mutton, i small onion finely chopped, 1 teaspoonful chopped savoury herbs, i dessertspoonful chopped jrarslev, 4 oz. of streaky bacon cut up very small, salt and pepper, fat for bakfng, i egg, bread- crumbs. Bone and trim the joint, spread it on the table, sprinkle with salt, pepper, herbs, parsley, and onion, place a layer of chopped bacon on the seasoning, and put the remainder of seasoning over the bacon. Roll up the meat, fasten it securely with string, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours, basting frequently with fat or butter. Half an hour before serving, brush over with egg, and cover with breadcrumbs, and let the surface brown well. When done, remove the string,* and serve on a hot dish, with a nicely flavoured thin brown gravy. Gigot de Mouton braise a la Bretonne {Braised Leg of Mutton with Haricot Beans). I small leg of mutloii, 2 oz. dripping, i oz. butter, i bouquet garni, i small onion, i pint haricot beans (haricot de Soissons), -J- clove garlic, salt and pepper, i l gill stock, \ pint demi-glace sauce.KEMO VES—RELEI ’I'iS. 599 Soak the haricots for two or three hours, cook them in slightly salted water till tender, drain, add the butter and seasoning, toss them over the hre for a few minutes, and moisten with a little demi- glace sauce. Bone the leg of mutton, and tie up into its original shape with thin string. Insert a tiny piece of garlic in the centre of the leg. Melt the dripping in a braising-pan. x\dd the onion, stuck with a clove, and bouquet garni, place the meat on top, brown well over the lire. Pour off the fat, add the stock, season with salt and pepper, cover, place in the oven, and cook from two and a half to three hours, basting frequently. Add the remainder of demi- glace sauce to the meat about twenty minutes before serving. Skim the sauce and strain it over the meat. Surround with groups of haricot beans and serve the remainder in a vegetable dish, to be handed round with the meat. Gigot de Mouton roti {Roast Leg of Mutton, French Style). Bone and trim a small leg of fat mutton. Season with salt and pepper, chopped' parsley, one finely chopped shallot, and a bruised clove of garlic (garlic introducecl into raw meat loses its objectionable acidity and odour, and it imparts a very fine flavour). Tie up the meat, and place it in a baking-tin with a few slices of carrot, one sliced onion, and two ounces of butter. Bake it in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste frequently, and finish baking or roasting in a slacker oven until tender. When done, dish up, pour off the fat from the tin, and add some thin brown sauce (jr stock for the purpose of making the gravy. Season it, and pour round the meat. Ballotine d’Agneau aux Petits Pois [Boned and Braised Shoulder of Lamb with Green Peas). I shoulder of lamb, 6 oz. veal, 4 oz. pork, 3 oz. cooked ham, i dessertspoon- ful chopped parsley, 2 truffles, larding bacon, 3 slices of streaky bacon, I onion, i carrot, i bay-leaf, parsley, i pint green peas (cooked), i pint stock, I pint Espagnole sauce, salt and pepper. Bone the shonlder of lamb, but let the end or knuckle bone remain. Prepare a stuffing with the veal, pork, ham, and parsley, all finely chopped and seasoned to taste, and press it into the cavity, distributing slices of trullle evenly. Shape neatly, and sew up tire opening. Put the shoulder in the stock-pot for about five minutes to harclen the surface, let cool and lard the top with larding bacon. Line a braisiere or deep saute-pan with bacon, sliced onion, and carrot, bay-leaf, and a small bunch of parsley, place the shoulder on this, and brown slightly over a brisk fire. Moisten with the stock and sauce, cover, and cook in the oven from fifty to sixty minutes. Take up the shoulder, skim the sauce, strain it, and reduce a little, add peas, a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper if needed, boil for five minutes, and serve with the meat. If required as a releve (remove), serve it whole, and put the peas round the dish as a garnish; if as an entree, put a bed of peas into the dish, cut the ballotine into slices and place on top, sauce over a little, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately.6oo THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Carre d’Agneau froid a la Bohemienne {Cold Neck of Lamb). Remove the skin, shorten the ribs, saw off the spine portion, pare and trim nicely, put it in a saute-pan with a handful of sliced vegetables, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, and braise in the oven for about an hour or more, according to the size. When done, take out the neck and put in a cool place. Add a little more stock to the vegetables in the saute-pan, reduce to half, skim off the fat and pass through a sieve, stir in sufficient dissolved gelatine to make it set, also half a pint of tomato sauce and a dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly, when nearly cold, but still liquid, mask the neck with the sauce, and when set coat with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish i:p on a crouton of bread or socle of boiled rice, garnish the sides with six aspic timbales of peas. Have ready two silver hatelets decorated with a cock’s kernel and comb at the top, a slice of truffle and a plover’s egg beneath, insert them into each side of the top of the neck. The dish is then ready to serve. Selle d’Agneau a la Hollandaise [Saddle of Lamb, Dutch Style). Remove the skin of a fine saddle of lamb, and bard it with slices of fat bacon, truss the joints as for roasting, and place it on a roasting-tin with a few slices of onion, carrot, and a little dripping for basting. Cook it in a rather quick oven at first, so as to nicely brown the surface, then reduce the heat and finish cooking till quite done, basting it frequently. Remove the bacon and moisten the joint, place it on an oblong joint-dish, and glaze the surface with liquefied meat glaze. Garnish the sides with small new potatoes, baked in the oven, and put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish. Insert two hatelets, suitably garnished, at each end of the joint, and serve with a boat of rich gravy or thin demi-glace sauce. Selle d’Agneau a la Duchesse [Saddle of Lamb, Duchcsse Style). Trim and skewer a saddle of lamb, roast it carefully in front of a good fire, next cover the surface with a layer of well-reduced soubise sauce or white onion puree, then besprinkle it with grated6o, REMO VES—RELE VES. cheese (parmesan and gruyere) and oiled butter, and let brown in the oven. Dish up, and garnish with small potato cassolettes, lillecl with a delicate ragout of lamb’s bread and tomato sauce. Gigot de Mouton en Chevreuil.—Boned leg ol mutton, marinaded lor two to three days in wine, vinegar, and herbs, etc. (mari- nade), then roasted or braised, and served with poivrade (pepper) sauce. — a la Nesselrode.—Roast leg of mutton, garnished and served with stewed chestnuts (whole), sliced mushrooms, and truffles. — bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled leg of mutton, garnished with l)oiled young carrots, turnips, sprigs of cauliflower, French beans, and Brussels sprouts ; served with caper sauce. — braise a la Soubise.—Braised leg of mutton (boned), with white onion puree as garnish. — braise a la Turque.—Braised leg of mutton (boned), with stuffed cucumbers as garnish. Musettes d’Agneau a la Frangaise.—Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, rolled and braised (usual mirepoix and wliite wine), dressed on a bed of mashed potatoes ; garnished with small potato balls, stuffed tomatoes, dice of ham, tossed in butter, and mush- rooms ; sauce demi-glace, served separate. Poitrine d’Agneau farcie a la Soubise.—Stuffed breast of lamb braised, with onion puree. Quartier d’Agneau a la Flamande.—Roast fore or hind quarter ol lamb, garnished with braised turnips and small stuffed spring cabbages. Selle d’Agneau a la Bretonne.—Roast saddle of lamb, with puree of haricot beans (or stewed whole). — de Mouton a la Castillane.—Roast saddle of mutton, garnished with stuffed tomatoes, aubergines, pimientos, fried bananas, and duchesse potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. — de Mouton a la Jardiniere.—Roast saddle of mutton, garnished with spring vegetables. — de Mouton a la Milanaise.—Roast saddle of mutton, garnished with cooked macaroni flavoured with tomato imree. — de Pre-Sale, Belle-Alliance.—Roast saddle of prime mutton (Welsh or Southdown), garnished with potato puree, braised lettuce, and stuffed tomatoes ; served with gravy. VEAU—VEAL. Fricandeau pique aux Epinards (Braised Cushion of Veal). 4 to 5 lb. cushion or kernel of veal (often called fillet of veal), larding- bacon, i onion, i carrot, i small bunch parsley and herbs, 2 oz. butter, I pint stock, -J- pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper, i glass sherry, 2 lb. or more cooked spinach. Free the meat from the skin and sinew, and lard the surface with four or five neatly arranged rows of strips of fat bacon. Line a braising-pan with the trimmings of bacon and veal, sliced onion and carrot, and bunch of herbs, place the meat on top, spread over with butter, season with pepper and salt, and slightly brown the602 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. surface of the meat in the oven. Then moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from one and three-quarters to two hours. When the meat is done take it up, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, and reduce to half-glaze, add the sauce, boil up, season to taste. Dress on a hot dish, sur- round with spinach as a garnish, pour a little of the sauce over the meat, and the remainder in a sauce-boat, or cut the meat into thin slices and place again in the original position. Dress the spinach in the shape of a bed on a hot dish, place the meat on top, sauce over lightly, and send to table. Spinach for Garnish.—Cook two pounds of spinach in the usual manner, drain well, and rub through a sieve or chop it very finely. Melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stew-pan, put in the spinach and stir till quite hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce and a tablespoonful of cream, cook gently for another fifteen minutes, and use as directed. The seasoning should consist of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Selle de Veau, Prince OrlofT. Procure the best part of a saddle of a young calf. Trim it, and remove the skin carefully ; then with the point of the knife cut along both sides of the backbone, and insert thinly-cut slices of truffle. Lard the surface neatly with small strips of larding bacon and roast the joint with a mirepoix of vegetables and bacon (French fashion). Garnish with braised tomatoes filled with asparagus points, and serve with a gravy richly flavoured with truffle essence. Poitrine de Veau farcie {Stuffed Byeast of Veal, braised). 1 small breast of veal, stuffing, I- lb. soft breadcrumbs, 6 oz. sausage meat, 2 chopped walnuts, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, i teaspoonful thyme, basil, and marjoram (powdered), 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i egg, and a little milk or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a mire- poix consisting of carrots, onion, bacon, and a bouquet garni, 2 oz. dripping, demi-glace or tomato sauce. Done the breast of veal. Prepare the stuffing by mixing all the above-named dry ingredients, and seasoning to taste. Add the egg, butter oiled, and enough milk to moisten. Sew up the end of the breast. Melt the dripping in a braising-pan, fry the mirepoix for a few minutes, then place the breast upon this, brown both sides over a quick fire, add a little stock, and finish cooking in the oven, basting frequently. When done, take up, remove the string, cut the veal into thin slices, dish up, and serve with hot demi-glace or tomato sauce. Carre de Veau garni.—Roast neck of veal, garnished with braised vegetables ; thin brown sauce or gravy. Longe de Veau a la Franpaise.—Roast loin of veal, garnished with stuffed tomatoes and jiotato croquettes ; thin Inown sauce or gravy. — a la Genevoise.—Braised loin of veal with stewed nouilles (ribbon macaroni), mushrooms, and truffles.HE MO VES—RELE V^S. 603 Poitrine de Veau a la Milanaise.—Roast or braised (boned and stuffed) breast of veal, with macaroni and tomato stew. Rond de Veau farci.—Rolled loin of veal stuffed and roasted. Selle de Veau aux Tomates farcies.—Roast saddle of very young veal with stuffed tomatoes. Tete de Veau farcie aux trufles.^Braised calf’s head stuffed with veal forcemeat and truffles. COCHON OR PORC PORK. Hams, and how to Cook them. The name “ ham ” is given to the hind leg of an animal when it is salted and cured or smoked. The ham of the pig is unques- tionably the hnest and most appreciated. The salting process is effected by the use of common salt, saltpetre, and bay-salt, with occasional addition of sugar and soda. Wine and sometimes beer are in some places used in order to give the ham a hirer havour. The proportions of seasoning and havouring substances vary in different localities ; the same may be said of the methods of drying, curing, and smoking. The process of salting or curing generally occupies some three or four weeks ; different countries have different methods, and the various processes adopted give an interestingly distinct flavour to the meat. The most noted hams throughout the civilised world are the “ York ” ; they are well known for their mildness and delicate flavour. Excellently flavoured hams are also produced in the well-known bacon districts of Wiltshire, Cum- berland, Suffolk, and Hampshire. Cumberland hams are usually dried without smoke. Thoroughly cured and well-smoked hams are often eaten without being cooked. The Westphalian ham is largely used for hors-d’oeuvre and salads. How to Cook a York Ham. Newly cured or smoked hams (three or four months old) need not be soaked for any length of time before cooking, but older hams, say, upwards of a year old, must be soaked for at least twenty-four hours in cold water before being really fit for cooking. After soaking the ham should be well scraped and put in a large pan with enough cold water to well cover it, brought slowly to the boil, and cooked gently for about four or five hours, according to size and weight, and when done allowed to cool in its own liquor. Spanish Ham. Spanish hams require to be soaked, say, from twent}^-four to thirty-six hours. They must be cooked with great care and atten- tion, otherwise they are not worth eating. First soak the ham well, thoroughly scrape and cleanse it, put it in cold water, gently boil for an hour, then transfer it to a braising-pan. Add to it about a pint of wine and enough stock to cover it, and simmer gently from three and a half to four hours ; allow the ham to become cold in its own liquor.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6o4 Westphalia Ham. These hams need to be soaked in water for about thirty-six hours at least. The water should be changed once during the time. When soaked, trimmed, and cleansed, put the ham in a pot with enough cold water and allow to simmer for about an hour, then take np and place in a braising-pan, moisten with sufficient stock to cover, add some sliced carrots, onion, celery, a clove of garlic, six cloves, a blade of mace, peppercorns, marjoram, thyme, and two bay-leaves. Let the ham simmer very gently for about five hours. Allow it to cool in the liquor. Jambon a la Basquaise [Ham, Basque Style). Select a sound smoked ham, soak and partially cook in the usual manner. When about half done, take it out and place it in an earthenware vessel with enough marinade (vinegar, wine, thyme, bay-leaf, onion, carrot, and peppercorns) to cover the ham. Let it remain thus for at least eight hours, then drain, wrap it in several well-greased papers, and roast in front of a moderate fire or in the oven for about two hours. Baste frequently. Remove the paper, skin the ham, trim away the superfluous fat, glaze it nicely with well-flavoured meat glaze, then cut it into slices and place neatly on a hot dish in its original shape. Pour some Madeira sauce over, and garnish the dish with stuffed tomatoes. Serve hot. Jambon en Casserole {Baked Ham en Casserole). Skin a small ham or gammon of bacon (previously soaked), cut off the knuckle part, and rub in a mixture composed of moist or and bake in a slow oven from 2 to 2f hours according to size. Baste it frequently and freely. When done take np the ham, remove the fat and the ham rind from the pan, place it in double fireproof pot and add half a pint of rich gravy or brown sauce (demi-glace) and a glass of sherry or Madeira. Continue to cook for another twenty minutes. It is then ready for serving. Jambon a la Marguerite {Braised Ham, Marguerite Style). 1 small York ham, i carrot, i onion, i bouquet garni, peppercorns, 2 shallots, 2 glas.ses champagne, i oz. butter, i quart stock, i lb. pork sausages, i pint demi-glace sauce. Soak the ham in tepid water for twelve hours, take out the hip-bone, and place in a deep braising-pan with the carrot, onion, and bouquet garni (previously prepared). Cover with water and DOUBLE FIREPROOF POT. brown sugar, half teaspoonful ground mace, one teaspoonful ground ginger, and a teaspoonful of paprika and krona pepper. Place the ham in an earthen- ware double pipkin or roasting pan, lined with fat bacon or ham rind, and a few prunes. Pour over sufficient lard or butter to baste, put on the lid,605 REMO VES—RELEVfiS. cook slowly from three to four hours, according to size of ham. Chop the shallots finely, fry in butter a golden colour, dilute with champagne and stock, lay in the ham, previously trimmed and pared, cook from thirty to forty-live minutes with the vegetables and peppercorns, then add the sauce. Par-boil the sausages, cut them into pieces about an inch long, egg, crumb, and fry them in hot fat. Take out the ham, cut into slices, and dish np. Reduce the sauce, skim and strain, garnish the dish with the fried sausages, and serve with the sauce. Jambon braise au Champagne {Braised Ham with Champagne). \ small ham, pint Marsala or sherry, i quart stock, i glass champagne, T1- gill demi-glace or Espagnole sauce. Soak the ham in cold water for twenty-four hours, saw off the knuckle-bone, cover with cold water, ancl cook very gently from three to four hours. Take up the ham, trim it, and put it in another stew-pan with the Marsala wine and stock, cor'cr, and let simmer for half an hour or so. Take the ham out, skim the liquor and free it from fat, and reduce it to a half-glaze. Now add the champagne and brown sauce, boil u}), put in the ham and simmer for a short time longer. Dish up the ham, glaze the surface, insert one or two silver skewers, skim and strain the sauce, pour a little round the ham, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat Jambon braise en Surprise [Braised Ham cn Surprise). I small York ham, -I- pint bechamel sauce, paprika and mignonette pepper, 3 yolks and two whites of eggs, a little cream, i glass Marsala or Madeira, I pint demi-glace sauce. Wash, wipe, and boil the ham, when three-parts cooked take it up and put it in a braising-pan with a few sliced vegetables and bacon, moisten with the wine, demi-glace sauce, and some stock.6o6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cover, and braise it gently until quite done. Let the ham cool in the braise liquor, then take it up, carefully remove the skin, leaving part of it near bone erid neatly trimmed. Cut off neatly a slice from the top portion of the fat, cut out part of the centre of the ham, about lb., chop and pound it with three tablespoonfuls of cold bechamel sauce, and rub through a sieve. Boil up the remainder of the sauce, and add it to the ham puree, season to taste, and blend when quite hot with the egg yolks. Let cool a little, then mi.x with the stiffly whisked whites of egg. With the prepared souffle, hll the cavity of the ham, and so give it again its original shape. Cover with the slice of fat previously removed, place the ham into the braising-pan, cover, and steam for about forty-five minutes. Take up the ham carefully, dish it up, fasten a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve with a boat of matignon sauce, made with the liquor left over from cooking the ham, as follows : Carefully remove the scum and fat, reduce well and strain. Re-heat, add to it a small glass of port wine, and about eighteen peeled muscat grapes. Give it another boil, season with a good pinch of paprika, and serve hot. Hanche de Venaison a la Dominique {Haunch of Venison). Remove the spine-bone from a small haunch of venison, trim it and put it in a braising-pan with a mirepoix of two carrots, one onion cut into slices, a head of celery, and a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, twelve peppercorns, three cloves, and two blades of mace, add half pint of claret and sufficient stock to cover the venison, cover with buttered paper, bring it to the boil, cover with the lid, and cook in a moderate oven for about three hours. Baste the surface of the venison with its own braise from time to time, when it is done put it into a baking-pan with about a gill of its own liquor well reduced, and brush it over with meat glaze (keep hot). Strain the remainder of the braise stock, add a small glass of port and a pint of demi-glace sauce, reduce well and skim occasionally, season to taste with salt and cayenne. Place the haunch of venison on a hot dish, garnish with groups of stoned prunes stewed in a little of the sauce, and potato croquettes, pour some of the prepared sauce over it, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Roast Haunch of Venison. Take a haunch of venison of moderate size, trim off the chine bone and the end of the knuckle, wrap it in buttered paper to prevent the fat from burning, roast it before the fire or in the oven from 2h to 3 hours, basting it frequently. Half an hour before serving remove the paper, baste the haunch with butter, and lightly brown the surface. Serve with a well-flavoured gravy, made from the trimmings of the venison, and stock. Red-currant jelly is handed round with this dish. Venison ought to hang from four to six days before it is cooked.607 REMO VES—RELE I ’ZiS. Neck and Shoulder of Venison. The neck and shoulder may be roasted without paper ; lard them with thin strips of bacon or ham, make a gravy as directed in the previous recipe, and serve with red-currant jelly. A shoulder of about six pounds will take about two hours to roast. Selle de Venaison rotie [Roast Saddle of Venison). Venison, to be perfect, must be well hung. A small saddle is always preferable to a large one. Carefully remove the skin covering the meat, also the sinews, and trim the joint neatly. Lard the saddle across the grain of the meat with fine strips of larding bacon, then tie it firmly with string. Line a roasting-pan with sliced onion and carrot, season with salt and pepper, add about one ounce of butter, and place in the joint. Cook in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes, and roast slowly after that till done. Frequent basting is most essential. A saddle weighing from six to eight pounds requires from 25- to 2I hours to roast. When done take up the joint, untie it, put it on a dish and keep hot. Pour off the fat in the roasting-pan, add some good stock or gravy. Season, and boil up, skim, and strain around the dish containing the joint. A nice piquante or other sharp sauce containing some red-currant jelly is often served with venison. Cuissot de Chevreuil, Sauce Groseilles [Leg of Venison, with Red-Currant Sauce). Carefully remove the skin of a leg of venison, lard it neatly with strips of larding bacon, place it in a deep pan, cover with marinade (p. 130), allow it to remain for eight to ten hours, then take up, drain, and roast it in the usual manner, basting frequently. When done brush over with meat glaze, and place it on a hot dish. Pour off all the fat from the roasting-pan, put in a little marinade liquor, four tablespoonfuls of well-recluced Espag- nole sauce, a large tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, and a small glass of port wine. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Boil up and cook for several minutes, skim and strain, and pour round the base of the dish containing the joint. Insert a hatelet, decorated with a fancifully cut lemon and truffle, in the centre of the joint, put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR REMOVES. Carre de Pore braise.—Braised neck of pork. Cochon de Lait roti (Roast Sucking Pig).—Sucking pig roasted on spit or in the oven, basted with olive oil or beer (the latter is the custom in Germany and Switzerland) ; serve withjpiquante, ravigote or other suitable sharp sauce. — a la broche.—Sucking pig roasted on the spit. Gigot de Pore a la Hongroise [Braised Leg of Pork, Hungarian Style.)— Boned, rolled, and braised, with sauerkraut (white pickled cabbage) garnished with the latter, also with small potato croquettes. — bouilli a I’Anglaise.—Boiled leg of salt pork, served with carrots, turnips, parsnips, and pease pudding.6oS THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Gigot de Pore roti.—Roast leg of fresh pork served with gravy and apple sauce. Jambon a la Beaucaire.—Braised ham, garnished with small rice cro- quettes, small heads of braised lettuce and potatoes fondantes ; sauce demi-glace, flavoured with ham essence. — braise au Madere.—Boiled ham, braised in, and served with, Madeira sauce (see jn 151). Longe de Pore farcie.—Braised and stuffed loin of pork (boned), served with brown sauce or gravy. Cimier de Cerf, Sauce Piquante.—Pickled saddle of deer, braised, and served with piquante sauce. Selle de Chevreuil aux Tomates.—Braised pickled saddle of venison, with stewed tomatoes ; brown or piquante sauce. Gigot de Sanglier a la Bourgogne.—Roast leg of wild boar, with Burgundy wine sauce flavoured with red-currant jelly. Fricandeau de Chevreuil a la Broche.—Cushion or fillet of venison, larded, roasted on the spit. Gigot de Chevreuil a la Creme aigre.—Roast leg of venison (boned) with sour cream sauce. Marcassin farci aux truffes.—Roast young wild boar stuffed with truffles and forcemeat. Poularde Poelee a la Bergere.—Pullet or poularde cooked in onion mire- poix in earthenware vessel in oven ; dressed with soubise, i.e. onion puree, and garnished with tomatoes tossed in butter, and straw potatoes ; sauce demi-glace. Reins de Sanglier au Madere.—Roast loin of wild boar, with Madeira wine sauce. Dinde bouillie a TEcarlate {Boiled Turkey with Tongue). Truss a turkey for boiling, stuff it with a mixture composed of chopped beef suet, breadcrumbs, and savoury herbs. Put it in an oblong pan containing stock flavoured with pieces of bacon. As soon as it boils, remove the scum and add a sliced onion, a head of celery, a bouquet garni, twelve peppercorns, two cloves, and a bay-leaf. Cover it with buttered paper and cook gently for about hours. Prepare a veloutee sauce, using the liquor from the turkey. Dish up the turkey, remove the skewer and string, sur- round the base of the dish with slices of cooked ox-tongue. Sauce over with the veloutee, and send the remainder of sauce to the table in a sauce boat. Poulet bouilli {Boiled Fowl). Pick, draw, singe, and truss a large fowl for boiling, put it in a saucepan of boiling water or white stock slightly salted, add a carrot, a turnip, and an onion stuck with a clove, simmer till tender, and skim frequently. A large fowl will take about i;|- hours, whilst a small fowl will take from three-quarters to one hour. When done, take up the fowl, drain it and put it on a hot dish, have ready some white sauce or egg sauce. Cover the fowl completely with sauce, decorate with chopped hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, and serve hot,CHAPTER XXVII. ROTIS-RO ASTS. The dishes served under this heading form the so-called second service of a dinner, and are known as the Roast, Rot or Roti course. On the Continent the large joints of butchers’ meat are preferred as releves (remove), while in England, especially when that course is omitted, joints are usually served as Roast. It is highly essential that the meat, poultry or game roasted before the lire on the spit, or else in the oven, should be served with nicely flavoured rich gravy, and other necessary accompaniments. When a meat remove has been served, the Roast usually consists of birds, game or poultry. When game is out of season, capons, poularde, turkey, duckling, duck, pigeon, guinea-fowl, quails, etc., are substituted. W’ith game and poultry should be served bread sauce, brown (fried) breadcrumbs, croiites of bread, garnished with watercress, chipped or other fried potatoes, also a seasonable salad. Roast joints are not again mentioned here, because these have already been exhaustively treated iu the preceding chapter. Horse-radish sauce should be served with beef, and red-currant jelly with mutton. Poulet roti a la Franpaise {Roast Chicken, French Style). Select a plump chicken, weighing not less than two pounds, singe, draw, and truss it for roasting, season with salt. Cover the breast with a large thick slice of fat bacon. In a roasting-pan arrange a dry mirepoix, consisting of sliced carrot, onion, bay-leaf, and bacon, place the chicken upon this, spread over two table- spoonfuls of butter, cook in a well-heated oven from forty-five to sixty minutes, and baste frequently. When nearly done, remove the bacon from the breast, so that it may brown. Untruss the chicken, dish up, and keep hot. Pour off the fat from the roasting-pan, add a gill of stock, boil up, season if necessary, and strain. Pour some round the base of the dish, and the remainder in a sauce-boat. Garnish the dish with watercress or other small salad, and serve. Poulet roti {Roast Chicken). Prepare and roast the chicken before a clear fire or in the oven, and baste it frequently with butter or dripping. Cook quickly for the first ten minutes, then more slowly. A small chicken will take about forty minutes, and a large one about an hour. W’hen done, remove the skewers and string, place it on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and pour a little gravy, made as directed in above recipe, round the dish, and serve with a boat of bread sauce. QQ6io THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Poussins rotis {Roast Chic-Chickens). Prepare three or more chic-chickens (baby chickens), truss them the same as fowls, and roast them in front of an open fire, basting frequently with dripping or butter. When done, take up, untruss, and dish them up on a hot dish. Garnish with watercress, and serve with gravy and bread sauce. Dinde farcie aux Matrons {Roast Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts). I medium-sized tender turkey, \ lb. fresh pork, \ lb. lean veal, 6 mush- rooms, 36 chestnuts, 3 to 6 truffles (if liked), i small onion, herbs, parsley, and spice, salt and pepper, -1- gill good stock, lb. dripping. Draw and singe the turkey, cut off the legs and neck, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and break the breast-bones gently. Pass the veal and pork twice through a mincing machine or pound in a mortar. Cook the chestnuts till tender in stock or water, drain, and break up small. Mix the chestnuts and meat together, add the mushrooms hnely chopped, the onion, previously blanched and chopped finely, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a dessert- spoonful in all of chopped olives ancl savoury herbs. Season to taste with pepper, nutmeg, and salt, moisten with a little stock, mix thoroughly, then add the truffles, cut into slices, completely fill the breast and body from both ends, truss neatly as for roasting, and sew up with twine. Baste well with dripping, and roast it in front of a fire or bake in the oven from one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the bird. \\'hen done, take it up, untie, and dish up. Serve with gravy in a separate boat. The dish is more effective if garnished with groups of chestnut puree, stoned olives, small braised onions, and mushroom-heads. Dinde rotie aux truffes {Roast Turkey with Truffles). Prepare a stufflng consisting of finely chopped cooked chicken meat, savoury herbs, 3 large chopped truffles, and 6 chopped mush- rooms, season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, and moisten with a little brown sauce. Fill the neck of a turkey (trussed for roasting) with this, sew it up with thin string. Cover the breast with fat bacon slices, and roast it in front of a brisk fire or in the oven.6i I ROT IS—ROASTS. When nearly done, remove the bacon and let the surface of the turkey get nicely browned. Untruss the bird and dish up. Serve with a thin brown sauce, containing hnely chopped truffles. Canard braise aux Navets [Braised Duck with Turnips). I large duck, 6 rashers of bacon, i onion sliced, i carrot sliced. 3 slices of lemon, a small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), i glass of whife wine, 4 medium-sized young turnips, -V pint demi-glace sauce, 2 oz. butter, i gill rich gravy, salt and pepper. Truss the duck. Line a braising-pan (braisiere) with the rashers of bacon, sliced onion, carrot, and lemon, place the duck upon this, season with salt and pepper, add the bouquet of herbs, moisten with the wine, and cover with a sunken lid. Put the pan on the fire, place some burning embers on top of the lid, and cook thus for forty minutes, basting occasionally. When half done, add the sauce, and continue to cook till the duck is quite tender. Peel the turnips, cut them into quarters, pare neatly, blanch in salted water, drain well, and fry in butter. Pour off the butter, add the gravy, season to taste, and simmer till done, taking care that the pieces are not broken. Take up the duck, untruss, and place it on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, skim, reduce it a little, and pour round the dish. Arrange the turnips round the base of the dish, and serve. Canard roti a I’Orange [Roast Duck with Orange Sauce). Roast one or more ducks, trussed neatly, till done, baste fre- quently during the process of roasting. Cut into the usual number of joints and dish up on a hot dish. Garnish with small bunches of watercress and quarters of oranges from which the pips have been removed, pour a little gravy round the base of the dish, and send to table with a boat of orange sauce. Caneton roti [Roast Duckling). Remove the liver and heart, carefully wash, and put again inside the bird. Truss neatly, put it on a baking-tin with a little dripping. Roast it in the oven or in front of the fire for about forty minutes. Remove the strings, dish up on a hot dish, pour the dripping from the tin, add about half a pint of stock or gravy, season with pepper and salt, boil up, and strain over the duckling. Garnish with some picked and washed watercress, and serve. Apple sauce is sometimes served with this roast, but it is not essential. Caneton a la Rouennaise [Duckling, Rouenese Style). I good-sized Rouen duckling, 3 oz. butter, i dessertspoonful of chopped shallots, I bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls fresh breadcrumbs, i teaspconful chopped parsley, -1- liqueur glass of cognac, i gill claret, -V pint stock, If lemon, salt, pepper, and a little spice, i small onion, i dessertspoonful flo”ur. In drawing the duckling, remove the gall, save the heart and liver, wash and chop finely, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of ground spice. Boil the onion in stock or water, chop finely, mix it with the liver, add the cograc, chopped parsley, and breadcrumbs, moisten with an ounce of oiled butter and a little stock, and stuff the duckling. Fasten both ends with string and truss them. Melt two ounces of butter in a braising-pan, fry the shallots a little.6i2 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. brown the surface of the duckling, take it out, put in the flour and brown a little, pour in the claret and stock, let it come to a boil. Replace the duckling, add the bouquet garni and a few drops of lemon-juice. Cover, and braise in the oven until tender. Take out the duckling, joint it, but keep in shape, and dish up on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, reduce a little, strain again, and pour over and round the duckling. This dish may be served as remove or entree. Note.—As a roast, ducks can be served in the same manner by stuffing them with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg, and fresh butter. Oie roti farcie [Roast Goose, Stuffed). 1 goose weighing from 5 to 6 lb., i oz. dripping, 3 onions, 18 sage-leaves, 2 oz. chopped snet, 4 oz. breadcrumbs, i egg, pepper and .salt. Pick, draw, and singe the goose, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and stuff in the usual manner with a stuffing made as follows : Peel the onions, blanch together with the sage-leaves, strain, and chop finely. Chop the suet, mix it with the onions and sage, add the breadcrumbs and the egg, previously beaten, season and mix well. Truss the goose, and roast before the fire or in the oven from ik to 2 hours, basting occasionally. Sprinkle with a little salt just before it is taken up. When done, untruss, and place on a hot dish. Strain off the fat from the dripping-pan, and take care of it. Add some stock or gravy to the pan, season, boil for a few mimites, pour on the dish, and serve. Pintade roti au Cresson [Roast Guinea-Fowl with Cress). Singe, draw, and wipe two guinea-fowls, place a piece of fat bacon inside each, truss for roasting, and wrap them separately in buttered paper. Roast in front of a brisk fire for half an hour or a little longer, and baste well with butter or dripping. When done, untruss, dish up, surround with freshly picked and washed water- cress, seasoned with salt, pepper, a little vinegar, and oil (two table- spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar). Serve with fried breadcrumbs, bread sauce, and gravy. Poularde rotie [Roast Capon or Pullet). Singe, draw, and truss a large poularde (pullet or capon), which is a large spring chicken that has been fattened up. Cover the bird with butter or dripping, and roast in front of a brisk fire or in a hot oven. Baste well with fat, turn frequently, and dredge with a little flour when almost done. Take up, pour off the fat from the dripping pan, add sufficient brown stock to make the gravy, boil up, season with pepper and salt, and strain. Garnish the dish with small cress, endive or watercress salad, and serve with a boat of bread sauce (p. 143). Faisan barde au Cresson [Roast Pheasant). Prepare one or more pheasants. Over the breast tie a thin slice of fat bacon, roast it for thirty to forty minutes, according to613 Rons—ROASTS. size. Remove the string, dish up, garnish with bunches of picked watercress, seasoned with a little oil and vinegar. Serve with gravy, bread sauce, and fried breadcrumbs. Cailles roties a la St. Antoine (Roast Quails, St. Anthony Style). Bone 6-8 quails, hll them with a light farce (chicken and foie- gras), insert also a piece of truffle previously soaked in brandy into each bird, bard the breast with larding bacon and a vine-leaf, and wrap up each bird in a thin piece of short crust or rough puff-paste. Place them in a braising-pan with ados e-h 11 i n g grooved lid. Fill the lid with burn- ing cinder or char- coal, and cook the bird thus over a charcoal hre for about thirty minutes. Failing this process, cook the quails in a sharp oven. To serve, remove the paste crust, bacon, and vine-leaf. Dish up round a fancifully-shaped bread croute. Garnish the dish with cresses and straw' potatoes. Becasse farcie rotie (Roast Stuffed Snipe). 4 or 5 young snipe, 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. ham, 2 oz. bacon, 6 sauce oysters, 3 oz. breadcrumbs, i stick white celery, seasoning, gravy. Pick and singe the birds, remove the inside and chop up about half the intestines, put this into a basin and mix with the bread- crumbs. Use only the white part of the celery, wash and chop it hnely. Mince hnely the ham, beard the oysters and cut them into dice, put these with the ham into the basin, season with salt and pepper, and mix all well with two ounces of melted butter. Stuff the birds with this, truss them, and wrap each bird in a thin slice of bacon. Put the remainder of bacon in a roasting-tin, upon this place the birds and roast for about twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Baste frequently. When done, take iqv untruss the birds, and dress them on suitably sized pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with a boat of gravy and a glass dish of red-currant jelly. Coq de Bruyere roti (Roast Grouse). Grouse should, like most game birds, be well hung if recpiired for roasting purposes. It is advisable to keep them hung unplucked for about two days. Great care must be taken in plucking, so as not to injure the skin, which is more delicate when birds have hung than it is when freshly killed. When plucked, singe, draw', and6i4 the new century COOKERY BOOK. truss like fowls. Mix some butter with a little pepper, and put a piece about the size of a nutmeg inside each bird, hang before a brisk lire or place in a tin if done in the oven, the former method, however, ii the better and more correct way. Baste very liberally with either oiled butter or hot bacon fat. Well-hung or high game should always be well cooked. Grouse take from thirty-five minutes to three-cjuarters of an hour, according to size. If cooked in the oven, a thick piece of toasted buttered bread should be placed under each bird, and served with it. When done, take up, untruss, place on a hot dish, garnish with watercress and fried breadcrumbs, and serve with gravy and bread sauce. Becasses aux Huitres {Woodcocks with Oysters). One brace of woodcocks, i8 oysters, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, I oz. butter, \ gill cream, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, mace, pint demi-glace. Pick, draw, and wipe the woodcocks, beard the oysters, and cut them into quarters. Mix the breadcrumbs with the egg-yolks, cream, and butter, add a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of ground mace, pepper and salt to taste, mix with the oysters and stuff the birds with this, sew up and truss for roasting. Put the birds in a roasting-tin with a little dripping and bake in a quick oven from thirty to forty minutes, basting occasionally. When done, untruss, dish up on two pieces of toasted bread, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Perdreaux rotis a I’Espagnole {Roast Partridge, Spanish Style). Procure a pair of partridges ready trussed for roasting. Put two well-wiped gorgona anchovies into the body of each bird. Line a small roasting-tin with a few rashers of bacon, put a layer of sliced tomatoes on top, place in the partridges. Add sufficient salt and pepper to season, also a few sprigs of parsley, baste well vuth oiled butter, and roast in the oven for a good half-hour. Baste occasionally. When done, take out the birds, untruss, dish up on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy. Add a teaspoonful of soy to colour it, also a gill of good stock. Boil up and cook for a few minutes, then strain over the birds and serve. Perdreaux a la Crapaudine {Partridge, Crapaudine Style). Fresh-killed partridges are best for this dish. Split each bird down the back, spread open, wipe the inside, flatten with a cutlet- bat, and skewer them flat. Brush over well with sweet salad oil, season with salt and pepper, dip in fresh breadcrumbs, sprinkle over some more oil, place them on a gridiron previously cleaned and rubbed with a piece of fat bacon. Grill on a brisk Are at first and finish more slowly, on no account must they be too brown. They will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes, according to the size of the birds. Remove the skewers, dress the partridges on a hot dish, pyramid fashion, and send to table with a boat of remoulade sauce.liOTIS—ROA STS. Cailles roties en Robe de Chambre {Roast Quails). Trussed quails, barded, wrapped in plain paste-crust, and iDasted from twenty to tliirt}^ minutes, garnished with cresses and served with truffle sauce. Mauviettes bardees roties [Roast Larks). Draw and truss 8 or more larks, previously picked and singed, cover the breast with a vine-leaf and a slice of fat bacon, hie them on wooden or iron skewers, and roast them before a good lire or in a hot oven for twelve or hfteen minutes, basting them with butter during the process. When done, season with salt, untruss, and dish up on fried croutons of bread, garnish the dish with small cress or watercress, and serve with fried breadcrumbs and gravy. Perdreaux rotis a I’Anglaise [Roast Partridges, English Style). Procure a brace of well-hung partridges ready trussed for roasting. Hang them before a brisk hre and baste well with oiled butter. They will require about thirty minutes to cook, and need occasional basting. When done, untruss, dish up on a piece of roasted or fried bread, garnish with a handfuf of well-washed and picked watercress and fried breadcrumbs. Serve with gravy and bread sauce (p. 143). Jeunes Perdreaux rotis sur socle. Young roast partridges dished up on a socle of fried bread with the usual accessories, Capercalzie or Capercailzie. This bird belongs to the grouse family. It possesses a peculiar flavour of its own, and can be cooked in the same manner as directed for grouse or pheasant. Capercailzie is the largest of the game or gallinaceous birds of Europe; the bircf is commonly known as “ The Cock of the Wood,” being generally the size of a small turkey. Truss it for roasting the same as a turkey or fowl, and roast in front of a hre or bake in the oven. Serve with bread sauce, gravy, and brown breadcrumbs. Garnish with watercress, Fried Breadcrumbs. Served with Roast Birds. Put three ounces of fresh breadcrumbs in a frying- or omelet- pan with about an ounce of butter. Fry over the hre a light brown colour, stirring continually, and place on a sieve for a few minutes before the hre to drain. Season with a pinch of paprika. Lievre roti [Roast Hare). Skin, draw, and truss a hare, roast it in the usual way, and baste frequently. A moderate-sized hare will take from one to one and a half hour to cook. It should be well done, not saignant. When cooked, untruss it and dish up. Make a nice gravy with the essence in the dripping-pan and some rich brown stock, havour it with a little red-currant jelly, and pour it round the base of the dish. Red-currant jelly shonld be served with roast hare. stuffed hare will require longer cooking. The stuffing usually consists of chopped suet, breadcrumbs, onion, and mixed herbs.6i6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Lievre farci, etouffe {Stuffed Hare, braised). I hare, 6 oz. cold poultry or game, 6 mushrooms, i egg, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, I dessertspoonful of aromatic seasoning, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, I of chopped chives, i carrot, i onion, 3 cloves, 2 shallots, a bouquet of herbs, 2 glasses red wine, i gill brown stock, \ pint brown sauce, larding bacon, 4 oz. lean bacon, pepper and salt. Skill, draw, wash, and wipe the hare. Cut out some of the fleshy parts from the sides or underneath, where it will show least, clean and wash the liver and heart, chop these, the cooked game or poultry, mushrooms, shallots, and the flesh from the hare. Put the chopped ingredients in a basin, add the breadcrumbs, aromatic seasoning, parsley, and chives, mix well, moisten with the egg, press the stuffing inside the hare, truss and skewer it. Lard the breast and sides with strips of larding bacon, cut the lean bacon, carrot, and onion into slices and put into a saute-pan or braisiere, add the cloves and bouquet garni. Place the hare in the pan, moisten with the wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and braise in a moderately-heated oven for two hours, basting occasion- ally. During the last half-hour add the sauce, previously heated. Take out the hare, remove the skewers and string and put on a hot dish, strain the sauce into a stew-pan, skim off the fat, season with pepper and salt to taste, let simmer for a few minutes. Pour the sauce over the hare, or, if jireferred, serve it sejiarately in a sauce- boat. A garniture of cjuenelles godiveau (p. 177) and mushroom- heads and truffles dressed in groups round the dish will improve the dish, especially if served as a remove. 1. ASPAR.\GUS MOULD FOR COLD SAVOURY OR SWEET CREAMS. 2. OCTAGON MOULD FOR SWEET OR S.WOURY MIXTLrRES 3. CROUSTADE OR RAISED PIE MOULD. 4 & 5. FANCY MOULDS FOR CREAMS OR JELLIES, VARIOUS TYPES OF MOULDS. 3- 4-6i7 CHAPTER XXVni. VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. Until recent years the art of dressing vegetables was little under- stood or practised in this country, and even now the majority of English people prefer them plainly dressed when served with a joint. The French, Swiss, German, and Italian nations long set a hne example in this matter, for they have many more varied ways of preparing and cooking them than are, generally speaking, known in England. They also cultivate vegetables most assiduously. MODERN VEGETABLE DISH. Tlio Eugllsh ui'e begiuniug, how- ever, to appreciate entremets of dressed vegetables, particularly when game is scarce, and fresh vegetables are good and plentiful. The coming years may witness a revolution in this direction, for a great effort is being made to eliminate much that is too substantial in our daily fare, and to substitute such simple, light, and palatable dishes as this chapter will deal with. The serving of dressed vegetables can, of course, be overdone. At a dinner of several courses it is not desirable to serve more than two dressed vegetables. As vegetables play an important part in many dishes, it is necessary that all preliminary processes should receive careful attention. First of all, let me urge that all vegetables of very strong flavour should be cooked in plenty of water, and the water must, in many cases, be changed during the process of cooking, for this has a ten- dency to give the cooked article a much more delicate flavour than it would otherwise have. All root vegetables, such as potatoes, salsify, carrots, turnips, celeriac, beetroot, etc., should be kept with the earth which naturally adheres to them until they are prepared for cooking. It is a mistake to wash vegetables and keep them till required for use, because they then quickly lose their freshness and crispness, PLAIN BOILED VEGETABLES. All green vegetables—in fact nearly all vegetables—should be put into fast-boiling water and be quickly brought to boiling point again ; slow cooking toughens them and destroys colour and fla\’our. Immediately they are cooked they should be drained, otherwise6i8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. they will absorb water, which no amount of draining and pressing will remove. If the vegetables are done and have to wait for the the right time, although they might attribute it to some difference in quality of the article itself, to its being fresher and liner, not knowing that the finest and freshest, if improperly cooked, are little better than the poor ones. Artichauts a la Chambery. 6 large preserved artichoke bottoms, i oz. of butter, 6 rounds of toasted buttered bread, i gill Perigueux sauce, salt and pepper. Drain the artichoke bottoms on a cloth. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, fry the artichokes gently on both sides, and season to taste. Arrange them neatly in the saute-pan, the hollow parts upwards, carefully break a small egg in each one, and poach in a fairly hot oven. Dish up on rounds of toasted bread, the size of the artichokes. Sauce over with a well-seasoned hot perigueux sauce, and serve at once. Artichauts entiers a la Chasseur. 3 globe artichokes, i small onion, i shallot, i oz. butter, ^ lb. fresh button mushrooms, -}- gill Espagnole sauce, i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, about 6 thin slices of fat bacon, I gili of white wine, | gill of good stock or gravy, h gill rich tomato sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, a bouquet garni, a few slices of carrot and turnip. Prepare and blanch the artichokes as directed in the preceding recipe. Choose three of the largest mushrooms, pare and trim neatly, trim, wash, and chop the remainder. Lightly brown the chopped onion and shallot in butter, add and cook the chopped mushrooms, then stir in the breadcrumbs, parsley, a pinch of nut- meg, season with salt, pepper, and moisten with enough sauce to well bind the mixture. Fill the centres of the artichokes, place a button mushroom on the top, and tie on slices of bacon. Line a saute-pan with bacon, a bouquet garni, carrot, turnip, add the wine, stock, and artichokes, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven till tender, basting occasionally. Lhrtruss the artichokes and dress them on a hot dish. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, remove the fat, add tomato sauce, and a little Esjiagnole sauce, if needed, reduce to half-glaze, finish with a small piece of fresh butter, season to taste, and pour round the dish. Serve h(A. meat, let them be drained, covered, and kept hot. The custom of over- boiling vegetables, or putting them to cook in a haphazard way some- where about tlie time, is very general, for few understand the effects of so doing, but the least experienced would quickly see the superiority of vegetables just cooked VEGETABLE COLANDER. ARTICHAUTS—ARTICHOKES.VEGETABLES—LIiGUMES. 619 Artichauts a la Barigoule. 3 globe artichokes (medium size), | gill sweet oil, 3 oz. fat pork, j lb. raw ham, 6 chopped mushrooms, i tablespoonful chopped shallots, i teaspoon- ful of chopped parsley, 2 oz. butter, i oz. flour, -h gill Madeira wine, i gill brown sauce, i gill brown stock, small bunch parsley, a few slices of carrots and turnips, onion, 3 slices of fat bacon, seasoning, italienne sauce. Trim the artichokes, cut off the stalks, some of the outer leaves from the bottom, and the tips of the other leaves, wash and drain. Blanch them in salted water, drain and cool, remove the centre parts of the leaves to make a cavity for the following stuffing : Chop ham and pork fat very hnely, add the mushrooms, parsley, shallots, previously fried in butter, and mix together in a stew-pan. Knead the butter and flour together and stir it in, moisten with the brown sauce, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and fill the artichokes as directed. Place a square piece of bacon on top of each, tie with string to keep in shape. Put the remainder of the bacon in a saute-pan, also the carrot, turnip, and onion, all sliced, and the parsley. Lay the artichokes on top, pour a few drops of oil over each, add the wine and stock, cover with oiled paper. Cook in a moderately-heated oven from thirty to forty minutes, and baste occasionally. When done, remove the string and bacon fat, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, add a gill of Italienne sauce, and reduce a little. Dress the artichokes on a hot dish, pour a tablespoonful of sauce in the centre of each, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately, Artichauts a la Lyonnaise (Globe ArticJwkes with Fried Onions). Select four green artichokes, trim and cook them in salted water till tender, drain, cool, and remove the leaves. Toss the bottoms (fonds) in a little butter, fill them with finely sliced onions, fried in butter, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Re- heat in the oven for ten minutes. Dish up neatly, and pour some demi-glace or veloutee sauce round the base of the dish, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and send to table immediately. Artichauts a la Moelle. Heat up some artichoke bottoms, the edges of which have been previously cut into flutes, place a slice of blanched marrow-fat on each, dish up and pour over a hot demi-glace sauce, flavoured with lemon-juice and a good pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper. Artichauts a la Poivrade. Young green artichokes served raw or cooked, accompanied simply by a mixture of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, are styled “ a la Poivrade.” \Mien they are to be eaten raw, young and tender ones must be chosen ; if old, it is advisable to cook them first in salted water. Beignets d’Artichauts a la Viennoise [Ariichokc Frittcys). 12 very small even-sized artichoke bottoms (preserved), about j lb. chicken or veal forcemeat (farce de volaillc, p. 178), i lb. unsweetened savarin dough, seasoning, clarified lard, and beei snet (in equal proportions) for frying, demi-glace sauce, fried parsley.620 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Drain the artichoke bottoms on a cloth, fill them with well- seasoned chicken or veal farce, and shape neatly. When the farce has sufficiently set, wrap each stuffed artichoke in unsweetened savarin dough, place them on a floured board,' and set them aside to rise from one to two hours. Plunge in hot fat, fry gently to a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of demi-glace sauce containing a good pinch of paprika pepper. Fonds d’Artichauts en Cocotte. 10 to 12 artichoke bottoms (preserved or Iresli), 4 potatoes, i oz. butter, 4 oz. streaky bacon, i glass white wine (Chablis or Saiiterne), i gill veal stock or consomme, seasoning. Stamp the edges of the artichokes with a fluted cutter, wash and peel the potatoes, scoop out as many rounds (ball shapes) as possible by means of a round vegetable-cutter. Cut the bacon into dice, melt the butter in a fireproof earthenware casserole, place in the artichokes, potatoes, and bacon in alternate layers, season with salt, mignonette pepper, and paprika, moisten with the wine and stock or consomme, cover the pan, and place it in the oven for about half an hour, basting frequently. When all the ingredients are well cooked, remove the fat from the top, and send to table very hot in the pan in which they were cooked. Fands d’Artichauts a la Monaco. 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, 3 hard-boiled eggs, i raw egg, gill cooked asparagus points, i teaspoonful of finely-chopped herbs (tarragon, chervil, and parsley), aromatic spice, salt, 3 tablespoonfuls tomato sauce, bread- crumbs, I tablespoonful cream, -V oz. butter. Procure preserved artichokes, wash and drain them, chop finely the hard-boiled eggs, put these in a basin. With the yolk of the raw egg mix the herbs, cream, and tomato sauce, season with aromatic spice, a little salt, and cayenne. Fill up the artichoke bottoms, smooth over with the blade of a knife, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and place them in a buttered baking-tin or saute-pan, pour a little dissolved butter over each, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Arrange them neatly on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Mornay. 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, i small tin or terrine foie-gras, about a gill Mornay sauce, some chicken (p. 178) or veal forcemeat (p. 177), 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, sherry, \ oz. butter, breadcrumbs. Turn out the foie-gras, take out the pieces of truffles, and chop them rather finely. Pound the foie-gras, add the forcemeat, rub through a wire sieve, put into a basin, and mix with the chopped truffles and a tablespoonful of sherry or Madeira. Fill the bottoms with this, smooth the surface, and coat with a thick layer of Mornay sauce. Spread over with grated cheese and a few fried bread- crumbs, put a tiny piece of butter here and there, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes or place under a hot salamander, to brown the toj), and serve. Panurette can be used in place of fried breadcrumbs,VEGETABLES—lJ-GUMES. 62 Fonds d’Artichauts a la President. Cut the edges of a number of preserved artichoke bottoms as for fancy border, mask them over with some dissoh’cd meat glaze into which a little’aspic jelly has been introduced. Put a little chicken puree at the bottom of each fond, cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, cut off the points evenly, place one half on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle, mask the whole with aspic jelly, set to cool, and serve. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Reine. 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, i small onion, i small bonqnet garni. to 4 thin .slices of lemon, i oz. beef suet, peppercorns, 4 oz. cookerl rabbit or veal, 2 slices of cooked ox-tongne, i small tniftle, a small lamb’s sweetbread (cooked), bechamel sauce, breadcrumbs or panurette, pepper and salt, frying fat, 2 eggs, parsley. Trim and wash the artichoke bottoms, put them in a stew-pan with water to cover them, add the onion, sliced, bouquet garni, lemon, suet, a pinch of salt, and a few peppercorns. Cook the fonds till tender, then place on a sieve to cool. Mince finely all the cooked meats and truffle, put all in a small stew-pan with sufficient bechamel sauce to moisten, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add one yolk of egg, season to taste, and continue stirring until the egg binds. Fill the artichoke bottoms with this, and shape them as neatly as possible. W'hen quite cold, brush over with beaten egg, and crumb in fresh breadcrumbs or panurette. It is well to perform the egging and crumbing operation twice. Fry in very hot fat a golden brown colour, drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve as a savoury vegetable or breakfast dish. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Reine [Cold Artichoke Bottoms). Stamp the edges of a number of preserved artichoke bottoms with a fluted cutter, mask them with dissolved meat glaze to which a little aspic jelly has been added. Put a little cooked chicken puree at the bottom of each fond, halve some hard-boiled eggs, cut off the points evenly, place one-half on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle, mask the whole with aspic jelly, and serve when set. Rissolettes d’Artichauts [Artichoke Rissolettes). 6 preserved artichoke bottoms, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ox- tongue, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls weil-reduced veloutee or bechamel sauce. I teaspoonful chopped truffle peelings, seasoning, 1- lb. flour, 6 oz. beef suet, I yolk of egg, piquante sauce. iVIince the artichokes, mushrooms, and tongue rather finely. Put them, with the truffles, in a stew-pan with the white sance. Stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, and spread on a plate to get cool. Free the suet from skin, and pass twice through a mincing machine. Make a smooth paste with this and the flour, adding a pinch of salt and enough water to bind. Roll out the paste, and stamp out some twenty rounds by means of a paste-cutter. \\'et the edges of half the number of rounds of paste, and place a tea-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 622 spoonful of the prepared mixture in the centre of each. Cover each with another round of paste, bring together the edges, and trim with a fluted paste-cutter, arrange the rissolettes on a baking- sheet, about an inch apart from each other, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up neatly on a hot dish containing a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of hot piquante sauce. Topinambours a la Creole [Jerusalem Artichokes, Creole Style). IJ lb. good-sized Jerusalem artichokes, 2 oz. butter, J gill rich stock, -1- lb. cooked game puree, salt, pepper and aromatic spice, demi-glace sauce or rich brown sauce. Wash, scrape, and peel thinly the artichokes, drop each as finished into a basin of cold water containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon. Cook them for about twenty minutes, covered with water in which they were soaked. Drain them, and scoop out the centre of each by means of a vegetable or column cutter. Fill the cavities with a well-flavoured game puree seasoned with aromatics, etc. Place the stuffed artichokes in a buttered saute-pan, add-the stock, put a little brown sauce on top of each. Bake in the oven for about twenty minutes. Dish on a hot dish in a row or circle, pour a little hot demi-glace or other good brown sauce over and round them, and serve. Artichauts a I’ltalienne.—Stewed artichokes with brown sauce and chopped mushrooms, previously blended in a little marsala wine. — a la Bruxelloise.—Globe artichokes boiled, inside stuffed with a rich mushroom mixture and braised, served with allemande sauce flavoured with white wine. — de Jerusalem a la Bechamel.—Boiled Jerusalem artichokes with bechamel sauce. — a la Reine.—Green artichoke puree and chicken cream mixed with aspic and set in fancy moulds, served cold. — sautes.—Green artichokes quartered, boiled, dressed, and tossed in butter, served with or without sauce. — a rAlice.—Jerusalem artichokes boiled, drained, and tossed in butter, dressed on croutons with a small round of cooked beef marrow in each, and sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Bordelaise.—Artichoke bottoms tossed in butter, and fried shallots cooked in red wine or Bordeaux sauce, and beef marrow-fat as garnish. — a la Florentine.—Braised artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus tips and bechamel sauce, sprinkled over with grated cheese and butter, and browned in oven. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Provenpale.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with onion puree (soubise) stewed and served in a rich brown sauce. — a I’Americaine.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with chicken forcemeat, with a garnish of cooked chicken slices, truffle, tongue, etc., in centre, served hot with sauce, or cold with aspic.623 VEGETABLES—iJiGUMES. Souffle d’Artichauts a la Lyonnaise.—Green artichoke puree, niixed with chicken souffle mixture, the centre being garnished with cham- pignons or mushroom puree. Cooked (steamed) in artichoke- shaped moulds and served hot with supreme sauce. Topinambours a la Creme.—Jerusalem artichokes stewed in white cream sauce. — a I’Espagnole.—Jerusalem artichokes stewed and served with brown sauce. -- a la Georgienne.—Boiled Jerusalem artichokes, sliced, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried in butter, dished up, and sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs and baked a light brown (gratm style). — a I’Indienne.—Parboiled Jerusalem artichokes stewed in curry sauce, served with boiled rice. — au Gratin.—Stewed Jerusalem artichokes, sliced or mashed, prepared with white sauce, dished up and baked in gratin style. ASPERGES—ASPARAGUS. How to Prepare Asparagus for Cooking. Select the asparagus of even size if possible, remove the buds with a sharp-pointed knife, and scrape or peel thinly each shoot from the tips downwards. Cut the stem-ends to an ecpial length, carefully wash and drain them, and tie into small bundles of about twelve to fifteen in a bundle. Keep them in water or in the ice till wanted. Boil in slightly salted water, containing a little lemon-juice, till the soft parts are tender. When once cooked, asparagus should not be left standing in water, as it is apt to turn sour in a very short time. The pan in which asparagus is cooked must be large enough to hold it, and the water must be sufficient to well cover it, and must be boiling before the asparagus is put in. Asparagus usually takes from twenty-five to thirty minutes to cook. Asperges au beurre fondu [Aspayagus with Melted Buttey). Prepare the asparagus, boil in salted water till tender, place them on a sieve to drain, and dish up on a piece of toasted bread, place on folded napkin, and dish. Serve with a boat of oiled butter. Asperges a la Hollandaise. Prepare and boil the asparagus in the usual way, drain, and dish up, and serve them with hollandaise sauce. This may, if liked, be poured over the tips, but it is best handed round in a sauce-boat. Asparagus a I’Huile. .Asparagus is called the queen of the kitchen-garden. There are several varieties—green, white, and violet—but the first is the most esteemed. Scrape the white part of the asparagus, and cut the sticks the same length. Wash and tie up into a bundle, then put it into boiling water, adding a little salt. \Mren sufficiently boiled, drain, and allow to get cold. When served hot, the sauce which should accompany is made as follows : Dissolve a spoonful624 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. of salt in two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Add a little pepper, some French mustard, and two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Serve this in a sauce-boat. If cold, it can also be ser\^ed with a mayon- naise or vinaigrette. Asperges a I’lndienne. Cook the asparagus in the usual way, and serve it with a well- made mild curry sauce. Dress the asparagus on a hot dish, pom- over the sauce, and serve. Asperges a la Milanaise {Asparagus, Milanaise Style). Dress the cooked asparagus, after being well drained, on toasted bread on a dish. Arrange them so that all the heads are at one end. Cover the head portions with grated parmesan cheese mixed with an equal quantity of gruyere. Melt some fresh butter, season it with salt and pepper, pour this over the cheese-covered part of the asparagus. Place the dish in the oven for a few seconds to take colour, and serve at once. Asperges a la Vert-Pre {Cold Asparagus, moulded). Clean a small bundle of large green asparagus, peel the stalks lightly, and throw them into cold water. Tie them up into bundles of about twenty-five stalks each, cutting the ends evenly. Have ready a stew-pan half filled with boiling water slightly salted. Put in the asparagus and cook till tender. Take them up, and drain on a cloth or sieve, and let cool. Prepare a vinaigrette with sweet oil, tarragon vinegar, finely chopped parsley, tarragon leaves, and chervil, and incorporate this with aspic jelly. Set the asparagus, when cold, into a suitable flat mould, with alternate layers of pre- pared aspic—the first and last layers should be of aspic. Place the mould on the ice for about two hours. Turn out on to a dish with a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. Asperges a la Vinaigrette {Asparagus t&ith Vinaigrette Sauce). Cook the asparagus in water, place it on a sieve, and let it get cold. Dish up and put the dish on the ice till wanted. Serve with a vinaigrette sauce, composed of 3 tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, I tablespoonful of best French tarragon vinegar, i tablespoonful of chilli vinegar, i teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, chervil, and tarragon, i teaspoonful of finely-chopped gherkins. Season with salt and pepper, mix well, and use as directed. Bouchees d’Asperges a la Princesse {Asparagus Patties). Boil a pint of green asparagus points in salted water, and drain on a sieve. Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a little grated lemon-rind, stir in the asparagus points, season with nutmeg and pepper, also a pinch of sugar, moisten with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, and simmer for ten minutes. Just before serving bind the mixture with a yolk of egg previously mixed with a little cream. Stir gently until it sets, but do not let it boil. Fill some small puff-pasteVEGE TA BLES—L tG UMES. 625 bouchee cases with the mixture. Put them iu the ovcu for a few minutes to get hot, then dish up ou a folded uapkiu, garnish with parsley, and serve. Croquettes d’Asperges {Asparagus Croquettes). Cook a pint of asparagus points in salted water till tender, then drain. Put two tablespoonfuls of well-reduced allemande sauce in a stew-pan, add half a gill of cream, when thoroughly hot incorporate three yolks of eggs, add the asparagus points, season with pepper and grated nutmeg. Cook till the liaison is formed, then spread on to a plate and let cool. Shape into croquettes of even size, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Take up, drain, dish up, and serve hot. Petits Pains aux Asperges {Asparagus in rolls). 8 small stuffing rolls or little dinner rolls, -i- pint asparagus points, l gill bechamel sauce, i tablespoonful cream, i yolk of egg, salt and pepper, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cut the tops off the rolls, scoop out the soft part of the crumb, and place them in the oven to get dry and crisp. Boil the asparagus points in salted water until tender, drain, heat up the sauce, put in the asparagus, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, beat up the yolk with a little cream, and add to the above. Stir gently over the hre, long enough to bind the yolk, lastly add just a drop or two of lemon-juice, fill up the rolls with this, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve hot. Pointes d’Asperges a la Royale. Cooked asparagus tips, re-heated in a rich allemande sauce, mixed with cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into julienne shapes (very fine strips), dished up, and sprinkled with finely chopped truffles. Ragout aux Pointes d’Asperges {Steioed Asparagus Points). Cut off the tops (green part only) of about eighteen sticks of asparagus previously cleaned, boil them in salted water for about twenty minutes, and strain. Put half an ounce of butter in a stew- pan, add the tops, toss a little over the fire, moisten with a table- spoonful of bechamel sauce, and one of cream, season v’ith pepper and grated nutmeg, shake continually over the fire until quite hot, and serve. Asperges a la Bernoise.—Freshly-boiled asparagus dressed on an oblong dish with alternate layers of grated gruyere cheese with some finely minced onions fried in butter put on top ; then sprinkle with grated cheese and breadcrumbs. Bake for fifteen minutes in a sharp oven, and serve hot. — a la Fribourg.—Boiled asparagus, sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese, and sauced with hot oiled butter. — a la Melba.—Giant asparagus, tied in bundles and cooked in salted water ; served with sauce Melba (p. 168). — a la Ni(joise.—Boiled asparagus, dished up cold and served with a specially prepared salad sauce made of sweet oil, hard-boiled egg- yolks passed through a sieve, vinegar, and seasoning. RR626 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Asperges a la Polonaise.—Boiled soft parts of asparagus, dished up and sauced over with nut-brown butter, and sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs. — a I’AHemande.—Giant asparagus cooked in chicken stock ; served with cream sauce. — a ritalienne.—Boiled asparagus head or green part; dressed with white sauce or oiled butter, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in sharp oven or under a salamander. — au Veloutee.—Boiled asparagus finished in veloutee sauce. It is best to cook only the soft parts of asparagus for this dish. — en Branches a la Bechamel.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread with bechamel sauce poured over. — en Branches a la Colbert.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread. Sauce over with Colbert sauce, and serve hot with poached eggs on top. — en Branches a la Piemontaise.—Boiled asparagus dished up on toasted bread covered with grated parmesan cheese, and coated with hot white cream sauce. — aux Petits Pols.—Green asparagus points cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. Drain and toss in a little fresh butter, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, dish up and serve. — sautees au Beurre.—Boiled asparagus cut into short lengths (soft parts only), seasoned and finished in butter, dished up neatly on a slice of toasted bread. — a la Flamande.—Boiled giant asparagus dressed with a rich white sauce and slices of hard-boiled egg placed on top. Pointes d’Asperges a I’Argenteuil.—Puree of green asparagus points mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked) or cooked chicken quenelles, set in asparagus-shaped mould so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus. This dish may be served hot with supreme sauce, incorporated and poured round the shape, or cold with aspic jelly incorporated and salad as garnish. — a la Sevillienne.—Asparagus puree prepared from the heads, points or sprue, filled into an aspic-coated mould mounted with cold cooked asparagus, well masked with aspic. Tliis dish is served cold, and is garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre or round the base of the dish. AUBERGINES—EGG-PLANTS AND VEGETABLE MARROWS. Aubergines aux CEufs poches [Egg-Plant with Poached Eggs). 3 aubergines, 6 small poached eggs, i gill tomato pulp, i oz. breaucrumbs, 2 oz. chopped ham, -t oz. butter, pepper and salt, chopped parsley. Cut the aubergines in halves lengthwise, and remove the pips. Cook them till tender in salted water, take up, and drain on a sieve. Mix the tomato pulp with the breadcrumbs and ham, warm up with the butter, and reduce a little, season with pepper and salt, fill the cavities of the aubergines with this, put them on a dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and place in a hot oven for live minutes. Place one poached egg carefully on each half, garnish with parsley, and serve hot.VEGETABLES—LfLGUMES. 627 Aubergines Anglaises au Gratin {Baked Vegetable Marrow). 2 small vegetable marrows, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham, 4 chicken livers, i shallot, i oz. butter, J gill brown sauce, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Peel the marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, cook in salted water until tender, take up, drain, and lightly scoop out the seedy portions. Cut the livers into thin slices, chop the shallot, and fry lightly in the butter, add the livers, toss over the hre for a few minutes, then add the mushrooms, chopped hnely, and the ham, season to taste, and moisten with a little sauce. Fill the cavities of the marrows with this, pour a little sauce over each, and place them on a buttered saute-pan. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs, add a few tiny bits of butter here and there, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up carefully, and serve very hot. Great care must be taken not to overcook the aubergines in the hrst instance, else they will break in dishing up. Aubergines farcies {Stuffed Egg-plant). 2 medium-sized egg-plants, 2 oz. butter, 6 mushrooms, 2 chopped shallots, 1 oz. lean bacon, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i oz. suet, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, i egg, salt and pepper, i gill demi- glace sauce. Cut the egg-plants lengthwise in twos, remove a portion of the interior to make room for the stufhng. Chop the bacon, mushrooms, and suet hnely. Put the butter and bacon in a stew-pan, when hot add the shallots, and fry a little. Mix in a basin the suet, parsley, breadcrumbs (previously soaked in a little milk), and parmesan cheese. Season with pepper and salt, add butter and shallots, also the yolk of an egg, or, if found necessary, the whole egg. Mix well, then put this stuffing in the aubergines, arrange them in a buttered sautffipan, sprinkle with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Dish up, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. Place some nicely boiled and well-drained slices of vegetable marrow in a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, and cover completely with a well reduced cold white sauce, sprinkle with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated cheese, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top, and bake in a hot oven to brown the surface. Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. 2 medium-sized vegetable marrows, 3 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, 3 table- spoonfuls chopped suet, 4 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, i egg, pepper and salt, i oz. butter. Peel the marrows, cut them in half lengthwise, remove the seeds from the centre. Prepare a marrow stuffing from the above ingre- dients. Boil the marrows for ten minutes in salted water, drain and cool, lay them in a buttered tin, put the prepared stuffing in each half, sprinkle over a few breadcrumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter on top, bake in a well-heated oven for hfteen minutes, dish up, and serve hot. Cucumbers can be cooked in the same way.628 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Vegetable Marrow aux Fines Herbes. Peel thinly two marrows, cut them in halves longways, remove the seedy portion. Have ready a pan half filled with boiling water slightly salted, put in the marrows, cook till tender—they will take about twenty minutes. When done, take tip carefully with a slice and place them on a sieve to drain, dish up on a vegetable dish on a slice of toasted bread. Melt about three-quarters of an ounce of butter, when hot add a small shallot, peeled and finely chopped, also a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and tarragon and chervil leaves, fry for a few seconds, and pour over the marrows. Aubergines frites.—Egg-plants peeled, cut in slices, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. — a ritalienne,—Peeled aubergines sliced, and tossed in butter, seasoned and dressed on gratin dish, with slices of tomatoes, finely minced onions or shallots, grated parmesan and butter, then browned in the oven. — a la Proven^ale.—Aubergines cut in halves stuffed with duxelle or mushroom mixture, flavoured with suspicion of garlic, browned in oven. — sautees.—Peeled aubergines cut in quarters or smaller, and tossed in butter. — a la Turque.—Aubergines cut in two lengthways, scooped out and filled with a mixture of cooked savoury rice, finely minced mutton, and grated cheese, sauced over with Espagnole, and baked. — a la Lyonnaise.—Baked stuffed aubergines or egg-plants, with fried sliced onions placed on top of each. Betteraves sautees au Beurre.—Clove-shaped pieces of cooked beetroot tossed in butter. Seasoned, dishecl up, and served with a rich gravy or thin tomato sauce. — a la Bordelaise.—Thick slices of cooked beetroot slightly fried dn sweet oil, flavoured with chojiped onion also fried slightly, and finished in a red wine sauce. CARBONS—CARDOONS. Cardons are prepared and cooked similar to Celery. Gardens en Croutons a la Veloutee.—Stewed cardoons dressed on bread croutons and served with veloutee sauce, which should be handed in a sauce-boat. — Sauce a la Creme.—Parboiled cardoons stewed till tender in rich stock, and served with cream sauce. — a rEspagnole.—Cardoons boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce. ^— au Jus.—Parboiled cardoons cooked till tender in rich gravy, and served with gravy. — a la Moelle.—Parboiled cardoons braised in demi-glace sauce, garnished with blanched or grilled slices of beef marrow,629 VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. GAROTTES—CARROTS. Garottes a la Berlinoise [Carrots, Berlin Style). [ large bunch oi young spring carrots, pint gravy or rich stock, i tea- spoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, :] gill cream. -1- gill demi-glace sauce, seasoning. Wash and scrape or turn the carrots, blanch in slightly salted water and drain, melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the carrots and sugar, toss over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with gravy or stock. Cover the pan and simmer gently until the liquor is reduced to a glaze. Add salt, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Shake the pan well, so as to thoroughly blend the carrots with the seasoning. Butter a pudding-basin, sprinkle with chopped parsley, line the basin neatly with carrots, fill up tightly with the remainder of carrots, place the basin in a hot oven for a few minutes, and turn out quickly on to a hot dish. Heat up the demi-glace saifce, add the cream, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. Garottes a la Bruxelloise [Carrots, Brussels Style). I buuch of youug spring carrots, i oz. butter, ^ teaspoonful chopjied parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, salt, pepper, and castor sugar. Trim, wash, and scrape the carrots, cut them into halves or quarters, blanch them in slightly salted water, drain, and put them in a stew-pan with the butter. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes without allowing them to get brown, then add a gill of good stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar, and cook till tender. Mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and pour into the stew-pan containing the carrots, stir till the liaison is formed, then add the parsley, mix thoroughly, and serve very hot. Garottes farcies aux Epinards [Stuffed Carrots with Spinach). 3 good-sized tender carrots, 4 oz. cooked game, poultry or rabbit, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 3 or 4 mushrooms (champignons), i tablespoouful breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful bechamel or Espagnole sauce, i yolk of egg, seasoning, i pint spinach puree. Wash and peel thinly the carrots, cut them into two-inch lengths, and pare each to about the same thickness all through. Boil in salted water till nearly tender, drain, and cool. With a column- cutter stamp out the yellow (centre) part from each. Mince finely the game or poultry, ham or tongue, and mushrooms. Season with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, fine herbs, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with sauce and the egg-yolk. Cook over the fire till hot, then add the breadernmbs. Fill the cavities of the carrots with this, place them on a buttered saute-pan, and bake for fifteen minutes in a fairly hot oven. Heat up the spinach puree, season to taste, dress in the shape of a pyramid on a round entree dish, surround with the baked stuffed carrots, pour a little hot gravy or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. If liked, a small braised button onion or a fried button mushroom can be placed on top of each carrot to improve the appearance of the dish.630 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Garottes nouvelles a la Flamande [New Carrots, Flemish Style). I bunch new carrots, i oz. butter, h pint white stock, tablespoonful flour, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, a dessertspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, castor sugar. Wash and scrape the carrots (they should be spring carrots, all one size, if possible), cut them in halves or quarters, trim off a little of the inside and shape neatly, parboil them for ten minutes in salted water, and drain them in a colander. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the carrots, season with a little salt, some pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg,, and two pinches of castor sugar, sprinkle over them the flour, toss over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock and simmer gently for about twenty minutes, skim, and stir occasionally. When the carrots are done, add the yolks of eggs, previously beaten up, also the cream, stir gently over the fire until the eggs are set, then dish up neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. Souffles aux Garottes [Carrot Souffles). r pint of puree of young carrots, i oz. butter, i oz. of flour, 3 eggs, a pinch of castor sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. To make the carrot puree, boil the red part of young carrots in stock or slightly salted water, and rub through a fine sieve when tender. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, stir, cook a little without browning, put in the carrot puree, and let it come to the boil, and season to taste. Separate the whites of eggs from the yolks, put the former in an egg-bowl, and work the latter, one at a time, into the hot puree. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, and mix gradually into the puree. Fill some buttered ramequin cases with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot. Garottes a I’Andalouse.—Braised young carrots, finished in brown sauce enriched with port wine. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled carrots cut into neat shapes and finished in a rich white sauce. — a la Bourgeoise.—Parboiled new carrots (pared or turned), drained, seasoned, and finished in well-reduced white stock with a little fresh butter, thickened with a small quantity of flour and butter. ■— a la Creme.—Turned, parboiled, and cooked in white sauce enriched with cream and butter. — a I’Espagnole.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and split in two or four), finished in rich white stock, Espagnole sauce, flavoured with a little castor sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter. — farcies.—Young carrots hollowed out and stuffed with green pea puree mixed with egg-yolks, and braised in butter and gravy. — a la Lilloise.—Pared new carrots cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season ; when done, a liaison of egg-yolks, butter, cream, bechamel sauce, and chopped parsley is added.VEGE TA BLES—LEG UMES. Garottes a la Maitre d'Hotel.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and cnt into quarters), drained, seasoned, cooked in white stock thickened with velontee sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar and chojiped parsley, served with fried bread croutons placed round the dish. — a la Poulette.—Boiled young carrots, neatly trimmed or turned, finished in white sauce (p. 163), containing finely chopped parsley. — au Saumon fume.—Young carrots and asparagus points stewed, and garnished with slices of smoked salmon. — a la Vichy.—Small, round, young carrots, boiled, tossed in butter, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley. Compote de Garottes.—Young carrots scraped and cooked till tender in vanilla-flavoured syrup, dressed and served like fruit compote. CELERI—CELERY. Celeri a I’Anglaise [Stewed Celery). 2 large heads of celery, i oz. butter, f pint milk, t oz. Hour, salt and pepper. Well wash the celery, cut it into convenient lengths, put them with the milk into the saucepan, and simmer gently for about forty minutes. Make a sauce with the birtter, flour, and the milk, add salt and pepper to taste, place the celery on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Celeri a la Demi-glace [Stewed Celery in Brown Smice). 4 heads of celerjr 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, about il gill demi-glace sauce, a little stock, toasted bread. Pare the heads and roots of the celeiy, remove the green parts, cut them into even lengths of three or four inches, and wash thoroughly in salted water. Drain well on a cloth, put them in a saute-pan with the butter and a ladleful of white stock, cover with buttered paper, and let cook slowly for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, add the sauce, and put the pan in the oven for thirty minutes. Take up the celery, dress it on toasted bread slices on a hot dish, reduce the sauce, take off the fat, and pour over the celery. Souffles de Celeri [Celery Souffles). } lb. of the white part of celery, i-t gill milk, bay-leaf, a small blade mace, i slice onion, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, pepper, celery salt, 3 eggs, I oz. grated pai'mesan cheese. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into slices, blanch in salted water, and drain. Put the milk, celery, bay-leaf, mace, and onion in a stew-pan, and boil till tender, remove the mace and bay-leaf, and pass the celery through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter in a stew-pan, add a pinch of celery salt, and stir in the flour as soon as the water boils, work vigorously with a wooden spoon for several minutes over the Are, put in the celery puree, let cool a little, and add the grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg, gradually. W’hisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle with the mixture, season with a little cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Three-parts All some paper or632 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. china ramequin or souffle cases. Bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes, arrange the cases on a dish with folded napkin, and serve immediately. Celeri a la Bechamel.—Boiled celery, served with white sauce. — a I’Espagnole.—Celery boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce. — a la Fermiere.—Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, par-boiled and drained, seasoned, stewed in stock with a layer of lean pork, finished in a rich brown sauce ; dished up alternately with celery heads and slices of pork. Sauce poured over and round the dish. — a la Genevoise.—Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, par-boiled, drained, seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, stewed in a saute-pan, with layers of fat bacon and stock. When done, drained, arranged in a baking-dish, sauced over with veloutee sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and browned in the oven. — a ritalienne.—Parboiled celery heads, drained, seasoned, and stewed in rich broth or stock, covered with a layer of thin slices of bacon, served with Italienne sauce. The bacon should be served with the celery. — au Jus.—Celery stewed in and served with gravy. — a la Paysanne.—Boiled celery cut into five-inch lengths and stewed in brown sauce. — frit a la Tomate.—Boiled celery (cut into four-inch lengths) drained and seasoned, dipped in frying batter and fried in hot fat. Served with tomato sauce. — a la Veloutee.—Stewed celery finished with veloutee sauce, into which a little fresh butter or cream has been incorporated. — a la Villeroi.—Boiled celery cut in four-inch pieces, drained, dipped in veloutee sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat ; served plain or with tomato sauce. Puree de Celeri aux Croutons.—Mashed celery, passed through a sieve, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar, mixed with a liaison of well-reduced bechamel sauce and fresh butter, and served with triangular-shaped slices of fried bread (croCitons). Celeriac a la Bechamel.—Parboiled celery knobs stewed in and served with white sauce. — a I’Espagnole.—Parboiled celery knobs stewed in and served with lu'own sauce. — a la Joinville.—Celery knobs boiled, cut into thick slices, immersed in veloutee sauce, set to cool, dipped in egg and crumbed, fried in hot fat, garnished with fried parsley. CHAMPIGNONS—MUSHROOMS. Champignons a la Bechamel [Miishrooms in White Sauce). 5 medium-sized white cup mushrooms, 5 eggs, i oz. butter, i dessert- spoonful flour, I gill milk, toasted bread, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Wash, peel, trim, blanch, and drain the mushrooms on a cloth. Mix the butter and flour together, put it in the saute-pan with theVEGETABLES—L^:GUMES. 633 milk, boil up, lay in the mushrooms, heads downward, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready the five eggs, boiled hard, shell them, cut round at the centre of the white, and remove the,upper part, so as to show the yolks. Stamp out five rounds of toasted bread, a little larger than the mushrooms, butter each round, place the mushrooms upon them, add one egg to the centre of each, and strain the sauce carefully round the eggs. Serve hot. If the sauce is found too thick, add a tablespoonful of white stock or cream. Champignons a la Diable [Devilled Mushvooms). Proceed the same as for “ Champignons farcis,” adding a table- spoonful of curry paste and a good pinch of cayenne to the mixture. Scoop out a portion of the head of each mushroom, fill up with the stuffing, place (stuffing upwards) in a buttered saute-pan or in small buttered earthenware souffle cases, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, bake in quick oven for ten minutes, dish up, and serve. Champignons farcis [Stuffed Mushrooms). Peel a dozen large button or small fresh cup mushrooms, and remove the stalks. Prepare a stuffing consisting of ten preserved mushrooms, chopped fine, fried in two ounces of butter, add two shallots, chopped fine, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of chopped ham ; season to taste, and mix well. Fill the mushrooms with this, place them (stuffed sides up) in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle the surface with soft breadcrumbs and grated cheese, add a few drops of oiled butter, bake for ten minutes in a quick oven, dish up, and serve. Champignons a la Montglas [Mushrooms, Montglas Style). Prepare some nouille paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, and line the two parts of six or eight mushroom moulds with the paste. The moulds must be well greased, and the paste must be well pressed in, else the shape will not come out perfect. Fill the moulds with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake a light brown colour. Unmould while hot, and place them on a sieve. Peel and wash a basket of cup or button mushrooms, remove the stalks, and chop the mushroom heads finely. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, and fry in it two finely chopped shallots. x\dd the chopped mushrooms, and fry a little. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with bechamel maigre, and cook till reduced to a puree. About ten minutes before serving, fill the two halves of mushroom moulds with the prepared puree, join the two parts so as to make them look like mushrooms. Dish up on a folded serviette, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce or cucumber sauce. Champignons frais sautes [Stewed Fresh Mushrooms). I- lb. fresh cut mushrooms, i oz. butter, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, I gill tomato or brown sance, seasoning. Peel the mushrooms, trim the stalks, and fry them in the butterTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 634 for five minutes, season with pepper and salt. Add the sauce, and simmer gently for another ten minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, sprinkle over with parsley, and serve hot. Champignons a la Piemontaise. Broiled or grilled fresh mushrooms, cut into slices, finished in a sauce composed of melted butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. Champignons a la Richemont. Fresh button mushrooms, fried in oil, drained, and finished in a rich gravy sauce containing chopped shallots, a clove of crushed garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and served with croutons arranged round the dish. Cepes a la Bordelaise. Cepes are a variety of edible mushroom of a yellowish colour. They are largely cultivated in the province and district of Bor- deaux, and are imported to this country in a preserved state, generally in oil or in water {au naturel). They have a most agree- able and nutty, flavour and are frequently used for garnishings and flavourings. Mince very finely two small cloves of garlic, fry this in a saute- pan with two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil to a pale colour, pour off the oil and add about an ounce of butter. When hot add a pint of preserved cepes (previously drained), sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt, and shake the pan quickly over a brisk fire for about ten minutes. Squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with some hot bordelaise sauce, and serve hot. Cepes farcis au Jus. Stuffed cepes moistened with gravy and cooked in the oven. Dished np and served with its own gravy, seasoned and freed from grease. Champignons au beurre.—Cup mushrooms washed and peeled, broiled in fresh butter and served on toast. — a la Bordelaise.—Fresh mushrooms washed and peeled, cooked in butter over a brisk fire, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and finished with demi-glace sauce, mixed with chopped shallots, previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley. — Casse-tout.—Fresh mushrooms grilled or broiled in butter, placed on buttered toast, and baked in the oven. — aux Fines Herbes.—Sauted mushrooms in butter, and finished in a rich brown sauce containing finely chopped savoury herbs. — a la Gourmet.—Turned cup mushrooms, hollow parts filled with minced preserved champignons, butter, and truffles, braised lightly in butter, meat-glaze sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — au Gratin.—Washed and peeled mushrooms seasoned with grated ham, chopped parsley, herbs, shallots, etc., dished on a greased gratin dish, sauced with a well-buttered Madere sauce, sprinkled over with breadcrumbs, and baked in a fairly hot oven for twenty minutes.63 s VEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. Champignons farcis a la Napolitaine.—Fresh cup mushrooms, washed and peeled, stuffed witli a mixture of celery, garlic, shallots, and parsley, all chopped fine, grated parmesan cheese, and In'eadcrumbs. Range on a buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle with fresh crumbs and cheese and a few drops of sweet oil, and bake in a hot oven. Serve with a well-seasoned demi-glace sauce. Chicoree au Gratin. Wash and trim 12 heads of Belgium endive, blanch and cook them in salted water till nearly tender, then take np and drain them on a sieve. Cut a piece of toasted bread to the size of the dish to be used, upon this spread a layer of bechamel sairce. Range the cooked chicoree or endive neatly on the dish, coating each layer with sauce and seasoning. Wdien dished np, sauce over the whole. Sprinkle over with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and bake in a quick oven, long enough to brown the surface, then serve. Choux-raves a la Creme [Kohl-Rabis). 8 small kohl-rabis (a species of turnip), i oz. butter. ^ gill allemande or veloutee sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, -V pint white stock. Peel the kohl-rabis, and cut into quarters or, if -large, into six equal parts. Blanch them in salted water, plunge them in cold water, and drain. Put the butter in a stew-pan, and, when hot, lay in the blanched kohl-rabis, toss them over the fire for a few minutes (they must not take colour), moisten with the stock, let it come to the boil, take off scum, put in the sauce, and cook gently until tender (a little more stock or sauce may be added if found necessary) ; finish with the cream, and add the seasoning. Dish np in a deep vegetable dish, and serve. Great care should be taken not to boil again after the cream is added. Choux-raves a la Menagere. Peel some kohl-rabis (a species of turnip), cut each in quarters and pare neatly (olive shapes), blanch and drain. Cook them in nut-brown butter and finish stewing in a light brown sauce, season and serve. Chou-rouge au petit lard {Red Cabbage with Bacon). I red cabbage. 2 small onions stuck with a clove, 2 small apples peeled and cored, 4 slices of streaky bacon, 2 oz. butter, i glass claret, i dessert- spoonful flour, pint stock, seasoning. Trim and w’ash the cabbage, cut into fine shreds, the same as is done for pickling, cut the apples into slices, cut the bacon into small pieces. l\lelt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the bacon, and fry a little, then add the cabbage, apples, and onions, stir well, sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with the claret and stock. Cook for an hour over the fire, then season with salt and pepper, cover, and place it in a hot oven for another hour. When ready for serving, take out the onions. This dish can be served with any kind of roast or braised meat, poultry or game. Chou-de-Mer a la Creme {Seakale with Cream Sauce). [ basket seakale, i lemon, i dessertspoonful flour, i gill cream, 2 eggs, salt and pepper, i tablespoonful white sauce.636 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Trim and wash the seakale, put it in a basin with enough water to cover, and add a good pinch of salt. Half fill a convenient-sized stew-pan with water, add the juice of half a lemon and the flour, previously mixed into a paste with a little water (flour and lemon- juice are used to preserve the whiteness of the seakale). Season with salt and boil up. Place in the seakale, tied up in bundles, and cook till tender. Take up, drain, and dish up on a piece of toasted bread. Whisk the cream, the sauce, and egg-yolks in a stew-pan over the fire till hot, not boiling, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and enough salt and pepper to season. Pour this over the heads of the seakale, and serve at once. Chou-de-Mer glace a la Creme {Cold Seakale with Cream Sauce). Cook the seakale as described in the foregoing recipe. When cold place it in a tin and bury it in ice for about two hours. Prepare the cream sauce as directed in the above recipe, and keep it on the ice till wanted. Dish up the seakale on a cold dish, mix the cold sauce with a tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise sauce, and pour over the seakale. This is a most delicious dish for lunch or supper. Chou-de-Mer a la Florentine [Seakale, Florentine Style). Trim and wash a basket of seakale, cook it in plenty of salted water and the juice of one lemon. When done, take up and drain on a sieve. Put a slice of toasted bread on a dish, arrange the cooked seakale nicely upon this. Sauce over carefully with a layer of well-reduced bechamel sauce, sprinkle with equal quantities of parmesan and gruyere cheese, season with white pepper and a pinch or two of paprika and cayenne. Pour over a few drops of melted butter, and dredge lightly with breadcrumbs. Place the dish in a very hot oven long enough to brown the top. Serve at once as vegetable entremets or savoury. Chou-de-Mer a la Hollandaise [Seakale, Dutch Style). Wash, pare, and trim a basket of seakale, put a tablespoonful of flour in a stew-pan, dilute with water, place in it the seakale, add more water to cover, and salt to taste. Boil till tender. Take up, drain well, and dish up. Sauce over with hollandaise sauce, and serve. Choux a la Lilloise. Small portions of par-boiled cabbage, drained, slightly pressed, and fried in butter, seasoned with chopped onions, parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Dished up and served with a suitable brown gravy. Choux farcis au Beurre [Stuffed Cabbages). 2 medium-sized cabbages, | lb. mushrooms, i lb. lat bacon, -pib. fresh breadcrumbs, 4 yolks of eggs, \ lb. sausage-meat, 2 oz. of butter, i onion, I clove, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, etc., i quart of stock, i gill brown sauce. Remove the loose leaves from the cabbages, trim, and wash well, plunge into cold water containing salt and a small piece of soda or637 VEGETA BLES—LI'LG UMES. moist sugar, par-boil for fifteen minutes, strain, and cool in fresh water, press them gently, cut in twos lengthways, remove the stalky parts, and put the cabbages on a cloth. Prepare a stuffing with the sausage-meat, mushrooms finely chopped, breadcrumbs, about a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and the egg-yolks, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir in an ounce of oiled butter, and fill the centre part of the cabbages with the farce. Shape them neatly, enfold them in thinly cut slices of fat bacon, tie carefully with string, place them in a stew-pan or deep saute- pan, add the stock, a small onion stuck with a clove, and an ounce of butter, set it in the oven, and let braise gently for about an hour and a half, basting from time to time. Drain the cabbages, remove the bacon, and dish up. Take the fat off the gravy, add the brown sauce and reduce to half-glaze, strain over the cabbages, and serve. Choux de Bruxelles sautes au Beurre (Brussels Sprouts). Trim and wash one pound of Brussels sprouts, boil them in salted water in the usual manner. When done, take up, drain, and let them get cool. Melt an ounce and a half of fresh blitter in a saute- or frying-pan, put in the sprouts, season with pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, toss them over a bright fire for about ten minutes, dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. Colcannon. I lb. cold potatoes, i lb. cold greens or cabbage, 2 oz. butter, a little milk, salt and pepper. Chop the greens and potatoes together, add the seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potatoes and greens, warm them over a slow fire, then rub through a wire sieve. Press them into a well-greased mould, make very hot in the oven, turn into a dish, and serve very hot. CHOUX-FLEUR—CAULIFLOWER. Choux-fleur au Gratin (Cauliflower au Gratin). 1-2 cauliflowers, li- oz. butter, oz. cornflour, pint milk, it- oz. grated cheese, salt, pepper, nutmeg, breadcrumbs. Trim and w ash the cauliflower, cook it till tender in slightly salted water, drain well, and let cool. Melt one ounce of butter in a small stew- pan, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with the milk, let boil for ten minutes.638 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. season to taste, and add one ounce grated cheese. Press the cauliflower into shape. Put a teaspoonful of the sauce on the dish intended for serving. Place the cauliflower upon this. Sauce over carefully with the remainder of the sauce. Sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese and a few breadcrumbs, place four bits of butter here and there, and brown in the oven. Choux-fleur a la Polonaise. Trim, wash, and drain i or 2 firm cauliflowers, divide into separate and even-sized buds or flowerets, pare the stalks, rinse them again. Cook in salted water till they are about three-parts done, then pour off the water, add an ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and finish in the oven. Dish up as neatly as possible on a hot vegetable-dish (round dish in pre- ference), give the buds a kind of dome-shape in dressing them, sprinkle over some nicely fried brown breadcrumbs, and serve. Beignets de Choux-fleur [Cauliflower Fritters). Divide a cooked cold cauliflower into sprigs, dip each floweret into some cold thick white sauce (bechamel or veloutee), see that the sauce is well seasoned. When the sauce is set, dip the pieces of cauliflower into a light frying batter, and drop them one by one into hot fat. Fry a golden colour, then take up, drain, sprinkle with fine salt and a pinch of paprika pepper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve quickly, CONCOMBRE—CUCUMBER. Concombres a la Creme [Cucumber with Cream Sauce). 2 cucumbers, i oz. butter, t gill cream, i teaspoonful of castor sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley. Peel the cucumber as thinly as possible, split each in two length- ways, and remove the seeds, then cut the pieces into cubes of even size. Cook them in salted water for fifteen minutes, take up, and drain on a sieve. Put the cooked cucumber in a saute-pan with the butter, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, add the sugar and the cream, bring to the boil, and shake the pan well during this process. Dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. Beignets de Concombres [Cucumber Fritters). Peel thinly a medium-sized cucumber, cut it into inch slices, remove the centre portion by means of a column-cutter. Blanch the slices in slightly salted water for ten minutes, and drain on a sieve. Place them on a saute-pan or flat dish, and fill the centre with some liver forcemeat or salpicon of ham. This is best done by the use of a large forcing-bag with a plain tube attached. Pre- pare a nice light frying batter, and let it stand till wanted. Dip each cucumber cube into the frying batter, coating them completely, then fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain carefully, sprinkle with fine salt and a little cayenne or paprika pepper, dish up neatly, and serve hot.VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. 639 Darioles de Concombres a la Mena {Cucumbey Darioles). I medium-sized cucumber, i- oz. butter, 2 eggs, i gill stock, a lew drops spinach dressing, peppier, salt, and nutmeg, i tablespioonful cream, i small truffle, tomato sauce. Peel the cucumber thinly, cut it in half lengthways, remove the seed part, cut up the remainder into pieces and put it into a stew-pan with the butter. Stir over a brisk hre for a few minutes, add about a gill of stock and a pinch of salt, cook till tender, then rub it through a hue sieve. Beat up the eggs and strain into the above pulp, colour with a few drops of spinach greening, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and mix well. Have ready some buttered dariole moulds, garnish the bottom of each with a star-shaped slice of trnhle, fill them with the prepared custard, and poach till quite firm. Unmould on to a hot dish, sauce over with tomato sauce, and serve. Concombre farci {Stuffed Cucumher). Select a large cucumber and cut it into pieces about two inches long. Take out the centre with a cntter, and fill it with sausage- meat. Braise the cucumber slowly for about twenty minutes. Dress on croutons of fried bread brushed over with glaze. Have some round pieces of ham and truffle, and put on as lids, and pour brown sauce (or white, if preferred) round. A few tomatoes au gvatin placed round the dish will greatly add to the appearance of this entree. Concombres a I’Espagnole.—Par-boiled cucumbers cut into quarters, drained, fried in butter, and served with Espagnole sauce, dished up in pyramidal form. — a ritalienne.—Cucumbers stuffed with a mi.xture of sausage-meat, chopped mushrooms, and savoury herbs, braised, cut crosswise into inch-thick pieces, ranged in layers on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with hot veloutee sauce. — a la Napolitaine.—Cucumber peeled, halved, stuffed with a mixture of chopped mushrooms, savoury herbs, and egg-yolks, then braised, ranged on a dish, sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and sauced over with veloutee sauce. Puree de Concombres.—Mashed cucumbers cooked in stock, drained, and passed through a sieve, blended with a little bechamel sauce, sea- soned with pepper, salt, and a little sugar. Re-heat and serve hot. CROSNES—STACHYS. Stachys or Stakies are usually washed, rubbed in salt, and boiled in salted water. Crosnes a la Creme.—Cooked as above, and finished in cream sauce. — - a ITtalienne.—As above, but finished in Italian sauce, with chopped mushrooms and parsley. Beignets de Crosnes.—Boiled stachys drained, then dipped in batter, and fried in deep hot fat. Croquettes de Crosnes.—Like ‘-a la Creme,” with addition of eggs to liind. shaped as croquettes, egged and crumbed, and fried.■ 640 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Puree de Crosnes.—Blanched stachys drained and cooked in stock, then rubbed through a sieve and mixed with a little potato puree. ENDIVES. Trim, wash, and cook Endives the same as Spinach. Endives a I’Ardennaise.—Par-boiled endives, cut in sections and sauted in the oven with slice of bacon. Served in timbale with butter. — a la Creme.—Par-boiled or blanched endives cooked in cream sauce. ! — au Jus.—Par-boiled or blanched endives drained and cooked in gravy. ^ — a la Mornay.—Boiled endives, drained and put in a buttered gratin dish with Mornay sauce, and glazed in oven. EPINARD—SPINACH. Epinards a la Bechamel. Pidv and wash about 3 lb. of spinach, boil it in salted water, rinse and cool in cold water, drain and p)ress well, then pass it through a wire sieve or chop it very hire. Melt in a stew-pan two ounces of butter, add one ounce of Hour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the spinach, also one gill of fresh cream and a small ladleful of bechamel sauce, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, stir until thoroughly hot, stand in the bain-marie. When wanted, dish up on a deep round or oval dish, smooth the surface with a knife, and garnish with fancifully-cut croiitons of fried bread or Fleurons. Epinards a la Creme. Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, omitting the sauce, and adding rather more cream. Epinards a la Colbert. Puree of spinach, served with neatly trimmed poached eggs on top, and garnished with fried croutons of bread or Fleurons of puff-paste. Epinards a la Forestiere. Pick, wash, and drain 3 lb. of spinach, chop or shred it finely and blanch it in salted water, drain it again, and cook till tender with 2 oz. of butter and i gill of cream. Lastly add the yolks of 2 eggs, and season to taste. Put it in a buttered gratin dish, and besprinkle with grated cheese and oiled butter. Bake for ten minutes in a sharp oven and serve. Epinards a ITtalienne. Cook the spinach as directed for “ Epinards a la Bechamel,” and chop it finely, then stew it with a little butter blended with a clove of hnely chopped garlic, and add 4 chopped anchovy fillets. Fill up a number of puff-pastry cases, sauce over with a little bechamel. Re-heat and serve hot. Epinards aux CEufs a la Vert-Pre {Spinach and Eggs with Green Sauce). Wash and pick about 2 lb. of spinach. Cook it in salted water till tender, drain, and rub it through a sieve. Melt an ounce ^Vegeta bles—lVg umes. 64 r of butter in a stew-pan, fry in it half a small onion, finely chopped, when a pale brown, add a dessertspoonful of flour and fry a little longer, then put in the spinach puree and a large tablespoonful of cream. Season to taste and cook for about fifteen minutes. Poach four eggs, and trim them neatly. Press the spinach into a well- buttei'ed flat timbale or charlotte mould, and turn out on a hot dish. Place the poached eggs on top of this. Sauce over with a sauce Vert-pre, and pour a little rich gravy round the base of the dish. Serve at once. Epinards en Branches. Pick and wash the required quantity of spinach, and cook it with very little water (salted), then finish with butter, season, and serve. Petits Souffles aux Epinards {Spinach Souffles). 2 lb. spinach, 4 eggs, i oz. butter, 4 gill cream, cayenne pepper, and salt, 10 china souffle cases. Wash and pick the spinach leaves, cook them until tender in plenty of boiling water (salted) ; it usually takes about twenty minutes. W'hen done, drain, plunge into cold water to cool, press out all the moisture, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the butter in a stew-pan, when hot add the spinach puree, season with a good pinch of cayenne, salt if needed, and stir over the fire until hot. Sepai'ate the yolks from the whites of eggs, work in three yolks, one at a time, remove from the fire before it boils, whip up the cream, and add to the mixture when cool. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in as lightly as possible. Have ready the buttered souffle cases. Three-parts fill them with the spinach mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Note.—It is rather difficult to give the exact quantity of spinach for this dish, because some spinach requires more trimming than other, but when cooked there should be about a pint of it. Haricots Flageolets panaches a la Poulette {Flageolet Beans with Carrots, Poulette Style). I pint green flageolets, lb. young French or Jersey beans, 12 young carrots, J gill rich stock, meat glaze, finely chopped parsle^^ butter, -white sauce, cream, nutmeg, puff-paste Fleurons. Blanch, cook, and drain the flageolets, and keep them hot. String the beans, cut them into lozenge shapes, and cook till tender in salted water. Scrape or thinly peel and partially cook the carrots, finish them in the stock with a little meat glaze and parsley, then glaze them. Toss the flageolets in butter over the fire, moisten with a little white sauce and cream. Toss the French beans in butter, add half of them to the flageolets, also add a dessertspoonful of parsley, a pinch each of nutmeg ancl castor sugar, a little salt and pepper, and put the whole into an earthenware cocotte dish. Arrange the remainder of the French beans as a border round the dish, garnish with the glazed carrots, and put a corresponding ssTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 642 number of Fleurons round the base of the dish. Serve hot. If liked, a few drops of lemon-juice and a few thin slices of carrot can be mixed with the flageolets just before dishing. Haricots panaches a la Poulette. r pint cooked kidney beans, -h pint cooked flageolets (both these can be procured in tins or bottles), i oz. butter, gill poulette sauce, salt and pepper. Drain the vegetables, cut the beans into short pieces, melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot, put in the French beans and flageolets. Season to taste, toss over the fire for about five minutes, add the sauce, which should be hot. Allow the vegetables to get thoroughly hot in the sance, dish up, and serve. Sauce Poulette. Heat up half-pint allemande sauce, reduce with a tablespoonful of mushroom liquor, and add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and lemon-juice to taste. Haricots verts a I’Albion. String xY lb. of French beans, cut them into lozenge shapes, boil in plenty of salted water till tender, drain, and let them cool. Melt if- oz. of butter in a sautApan, toss the beans over the fire for a few minutes. Season with pepper, add the juice of half a lemon, half a tablespoonful of meat glaze, and a tablespoonfnl of veloutee or bechamel sauce. Make quite hot, pile high on a dish, and garnish with triangular-shaped fried bread croutons and quarters of artichoke bottoms, previously sauted in butter. Sprinkle the beans with finely-chopped parsley, and serve hot. Haricots verts sautes {French Beans tossed in Butter). Prepare and cut about i lb. of small French beans, boil till tender in salted water, drain, and let cool. Melt if- to 2 oz. butter in a sautApan, put in the beans, season with a pinch of pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of castor sugar. Toss over the fire until the beans are thoroughly hot, dish up, and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Flageolets a la Poulette, il pint French flageolet beans, il oz. butter, gill white sauce, i teaspoon- ful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, i tablespoonful cream. Put the flageolets in a stew-pan, with a little salt and oz. of butter, add a quart of water, and cook till tender (if preserved flageolets are used, boil only for a couple of minutes). Drain in a colander, and put them while hot in a saute-pan with I oz. of butter, toss over the fire for a few minutes, then add the white sauce, chopped parsley, and cream. Season with pepper and salt. Mix well by tossing, not stirring. Cook for a few minutes longer. Dish up, and serve hot. Haricots Blancs {Haricot Beans). J- pint haricot beans, 2 oz. streaky bacon, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, I i oz. dripping or butter, gill stock or gravy, pepper and salt.VEGETA BLES—LliG UMES. 643 Soak the .beans for twelve hours, cover them with cold water, and boil for two hours or until they are soft, and drain the water from them. Melt the butter or dripping in the saucepan, fry in it the bacon cut into small dice, put in the cooked beans, with enough salt and pepper to season, and the chopped parsley, moisten with the stock or gravy, place the pan on the hre or in the oven, and re-heat. Shake the pan occasionally to prevent the beans burning. Serve on a hot dish. Haricots blancs a I’Americaine {Baked Beans). Wash I to i-l- pint of haricot beans in cold wmter, put them in a fireproof earthenware stew-pot, cover with water and stock, and cook in a slow oven for about 3-i- hours, adding a little hot stock from time to time, so as to keep them covered. Arrange the beans in a pie-dish with layers of slices of cooked bacon or ham and tomato sauce. Bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. Butter Beans. I pint butter beans, 2 oz. butter, 5 yolks of eggs, i gill of rich stock, i table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a few drops lemon-juice, seasoning. Soak the beans in water for at least twelve hours. Simmer gently in slightly salted water for three hours, strain, and keep them hot. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, allow it to cool a little, then add the yolks of eggs and the vinegar, lemon-juice, and stock. Stir these ingredients briskly over the fire until thickened. Re-heat the butter beans in this, season to taste, dish on a hot vegetable dish, and serve. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne.—Boiled haricot beans stewed in brown sauce, with finely chopped fried onions and parsley. — blancs a la Bechamel.—Par-boiled haricot beans stewed in white sauce. — blancs a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled haricot beans stewed in brown sauce, with slices of fried onions. — verts a la FranQaise.—French beans boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter, with chopped parsley and chives. — verts aux Fines Herbes.—French beans boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter, with chopped parsley. — verts a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled French beans seasoned, tossed in butter with thinly-sliced fried onions. Puree de Lentilles.—Lentils fried lightly in butter, cooked in stock, and rubbed through a sieve. Lentilles en Fricassee.—Boiled lentils stewed in white sauce. Jardiniere de Legumes.—Mixed vegetables cut into small fanciful pieces, cubes, stars or other shapes, cooked separately in salted water, mixed when done, and tossed in butter. Macedoine a la Bechamel.—Boiled mixed vegetables, carrots, turnips, peas, beans, etc., tossed in butter, and finished in white sauce. ^ a la Printaniere.—IMixed spring vegetables cut into neat shapes, boiled, drained, seasoned, and tossed in butter.644 the new century COOKERY BOOK. Jets de Houblon {Hopshoots). Hopshoots or hop sprigs, obtainable during April and May, make an excellent vegetable. They are prepared and cooked the same as asparagus, viz. boiled in salted water till tender ; when drained, dish up and serve with hollandaise or bechamel sauce, or if preferred with vinaigrette dressing. Laitues braisees au Jus {Braised Lettuces). 6 lettuces, 6 slices fat bacon, i small onion, parsley, and herbs, about \ pint of stock (brown), i gill demi-glace sauce, salt and pepper. Choose the lettuces of even and medium size, take off the out- side leaves, trim, par-boil, cool, press out the water, but keeping them in shape. Lay them in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, slices of onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a spt'ig of marjoram. Moisten with stock, and braise in the oven for about hour. Take out the lettuces, strain on a sieve, pare, shape them neatly, and dish up. Remove fat, etc., from the liquid. Add the demi-glace, reduce well, strain, and sauce over the lettuces. Pains de Laitues {Lettuce Timbales). 8 firm cabbage lettuces, 2 oz. butter, |- oz. flour, 3 eggs, gill rich gravy, -1- gill double cream, gill Madeira sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Trim and wash the lettuces. Boil fast till tender in slightly salted water. Drain, squeeze out the moisture, and chop them very finely. Melt id oz. butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, stir for a few minutes, then add the minced lettuces, moisten with the gravy, stir with a wooden spoon till the whole simmers. Cook for a few minutes, remove the pan from the fire, let cool a little, and add by degrees the yolks of three eggs, the whites of two, and the cream. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill up some well-buttered dariole or timbale moulds. Stand them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, and poach in the oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with sauce Madere. Marrons au Jus {Stewed Chestnuts). it- lb. chestnuts, i quart stock, i small blade mace, i piece of celery, i small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, \ gill brown sauce, i oz. butter, i oz. meat glaze, the juice of I- lemon, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Slit the chestnuts, put them in the oven for about ten minutes, remove the outer husks, par-boil them in slightly salted water for about twenty minutes, drain, and remove the inner skin. Put them in a stew-pan with the stock, mace, celeryand onion, and boil from thirty to forty-five minutes. When mealy, pour off the stock, drain the chestnuts, return them to the stew-pan, add the butter, and toss them over a brisk fire, taking great care not to break them. Pour off the butter, add the meat glaze and the sauce, when hot, put in the lemon-juice, season to taste, dish up, and serve hot.645 VEGETABLES—LkGUMES. NAVETS—TURNIPS. Puree de Navets au Gratin {Baked Mashed Turnips). 2 lb. young turnips, 3 oz. butter, oz. flour, i gill bechamel sauce, 1 pint rich stock, i medium-sized onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, breadcrumbs. \Vasli, peel, and slice the turnips, put them into cold water with a little salt. Peel and blanch the onion, chop it finely, cook for a few minutes in an ounce of butter, then add the turnips, previously drained, and stir over a slow fire for about fifteen minutes. Melt an ounce of butter, add the flour, and cook a little without brown- ing, moisten with the stock, and boil up while stirring, cook for ten mhiutes, then pour it o^"er the turnips, and simmer for about half an hour. Pass all through a sieve, season to taste with a pinch of sugar, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Arrange in a pile on a gratin dish. Mask with the white sauce, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and divide the remainder of butter in little bits on top. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes in a hot oven, and serve very hot. Navets a la Bourgeoise.—Par-boiled turnips stewed in brown parsley sauce. — braises.—Turnips peeled, cut in quarters, cubes or olive-shapes, blanched, fried in butter, and braised. — a la Veloutee.—Par-boiled young turnips stewed in white sauce veloiitee. Petits Paniers a la Jardiniere {Small Vegetable Baskets). \ lb. short paste, 4 pint of macedoine of vegetables, oil and vinegar, lemon, I tablespoonful aspic jelly, i small truffle, pepper and salt. Line eight small patty-pans, and shape some twisted slips of paste, bake them, and fasten each end crossways, with some yolk of egg and flour mixed, to the sides of the patty-pan. Fill the patty- pans with raw rice, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn out the rice, and let them cool. Have ready some cooked and drained macedoine of vegetables, season with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, moisten with a tablespoonful of aspic, fill the baked crust with the mixture. Mask the surface of each with aspic, ornament with fancy shapes of lemon-rind or truffles, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. Dish up and serve. The trimmings of truffle can be mixed with the macedoine. Puree d’Oseille {Mashed Sorrel). Wash and pick about i lb. of sorrel, boil till tender in salted water, strain well, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt i oz. butter in a stew-pan, add a dessertspoonful of flour, cook a little, and add the sorrel, moisten with a gill of cream or stock, season with pepper and salt, stir and cook until it has the desired consistency. Sorrel puree makes a very nice garnish for fricandeau of veal, veal cutlets, paupiettes, poached eggs, etc. If served with the latter, the dish should be garnished with croutes of fried or toasted bread. PETITS POIS—GREEN PEAS. Petits Pois {Green Peas). Shell the peas, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, to which salt and a small quantity of moist sugar have been added ;THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 646 there should only be just enough water to well cover the peas. Let them boil quickly, leaving the stew-pan uncovered, when done, drain in a colander, put them on a hot vegetable dish, place a few small pieces of butter on top, and serve. A few sprigs of green mint added to the water will improve the flavour of the peas. Petits Pois a la Basquaise {Green Peas, Basque Style). I quart green peas, 2 tender cabbage lettuces, i small onion, i small bunch parsley, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour, salt, sugar, and pepper. Trim and wash the lettuces, cut them into fine shreds, and put them into a saucepan with the peas, onion, parsley, salt to taste, and a lump of loaf sugar. Add enough cold water to well cover the contents of the pan. Cover it and cook for about twenty-five minutes over a good fire. Remove the parsley and onion. Knead the butter with the flour, add it to the peas, cook for another ten minutes, season with a pinch of pepper and more salt if needed, dish up, and serve. A few Fleurons of puff pastry may be placed round the dish if liked. Petits Pois au Beurre {Green Peas with Butter). Put about a pint of freshly gathered shelled peas in a stew-pan with a pint of boiling water, add a sprig of green mint, a teaspoonful of salt, and ^ teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil till tender. Strain the water from the peas, add a couple of pats of fresh butter, a good pinch of castor sugar, and a pinch of pepper, toss over the fire for a few minutes, remove the mint, and serve as vegetable or as garnish. Petits Pois a la Bonne Femme. Green peas cooked plain, then mixed with small braised button onions and shreds of cabbage lettuce, previously tossed in butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and sugar. Petits Pois de Conserve {Preserved Peas for Table). Open a quart tin or bottle of preserved peas, put them into a pointed strainer, hold under a water-tap and let the cold water run freely over the peas for a few minutes. Shake the strainer so as to thoroughly drain the peas. Have ready a small saucepan, three-parts full of boiling water, containing a sprig of mint, green or dried, and a pinch of salt. Put in the peas and boil quickly for five minutes, then drain them. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add the peas, toss over the fire for a few seconds, sprinkle over half a teaspoonful of flour, season with pepper and salt, and a tiny pinch of castor sugar. Moisten with two tablespoonfuls of rich stock or gravy, cook gently for about eight minutes, shaking the pan frequently. Dish up, and serve. Petits Pois a la Flamande {Green Peas, Flemish Style). 14 pint young green peas, mint, a bunch young carrots, meat glaze, 2 pats fresh butter, castor sugar, stock or cream. Shell and cook the peas until nearly tender in water containing salt, a little mint, and a lump of sugar or a tiny piece of soda to preserve the colour. Scrape the carrots, and scoop' out by meansVEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. 647 of a vegetable cutter about -J- pint of small marble shapes, cook them iu salted water, drain well, place them in a stew-pan with a tablespoonfnl of liquid meat glaze and a pat of fresh butter. Put in the peas, a teaspoonfnl of castor sugar, a little stock or cream, cover, and steam very gently for about fifteen minutes, shaking the pan occasionally. Season to taste, add another pat of butter, dish up, and serve. Petits Pois au Jambon a la Fran(?aise {Green Peas with Ham). Put three ])ints of peas into a stew-pan with a sprig each of green onion, mint, and parsley, a tablespoonful of sugar, salt, and a pint of water, cover, and stew gently from twenty minutes to half an hour. Remove the herbs, if much liquor is left, pour off a little, and allow the remainder to boil down. Have ready about half a pound of lean ham, coarsely cut, fry it in an ounce of fresh butter, sprinkle with a dessertspoonful of flour, add this to the peas. Toss over the lire, dish up, and garnish with Fleurons (small lialf-moon shapes of puff-paste). Petits Pois a la Nantaise {Green Peas, Nantaise Style). Put a quart of young green peas in a stew-pan with two small |)eeled button onions and a cabbage lettuce tied iqr with string. Moisten with a gill of water and half an ounce of butter. Cover the pan, and cook quickly until the peas are tender. Take out the onion and lettuce, cut the latter into very fine shreds and return to the peas after draining off the water. Season with salt and pepper and half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Add a tablespoonful of butter to the peas, shake the pan well, and re-heat the peas, which are then ready for serving. Petits Pois a la Romaine {Green Peas with Lettuce). I pint cooked green peas, 2 button onions, i small cabbage lettuce, i oz. butter, a tew sprigs parsley tied in a bunch, a saltspoonful castor sugar, I- teaspoonful flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Peel, blanch, drain the onions, and chop \’ery finely. Wash and trim the lettuce, and cut the white leaves into very fine shreds. iMelt the butter in a stew-pan, fry the onions a pale golden colour, then add the shredded lettuce and fry for a few minutes. Add the peas and the parsley, stir or toss carefully for several minutes over a moderate fire, sprinkle over the flour, moisten with a few drops of water, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Add also the sugar. Allow to simmer very gently for ten minutes, remove the parsley, and serve. Puree de Pois Verts {Green Pea Puree). Boil a quart of shelled peas in slightly salted water till tender (a small pinch of soda or a teaspoonful of moist sugar should be added to preserve the green colour). When done, drain off the water, rub the peas through a sieve. Put the puree in a stew-pan with enough milk or cream to moisten, also a small piece of fresh butter. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire till quite hot. Serve as a vegetable or as garnish for cutlets, etc.648 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY’ BOOK. Souffle de Pols Verts {Green Pea Souffle). Rub a quart of blanched young green peas through a sieve, incorporate half an ounce of fresh butter, three yolks of eggs, two to three tablespoonfuls well-reduced bechamel sauce, a little sugar, salt, and pepper, and lastly the whites of two eggs whisked stiffly. Should the mixture not be green enough, add a little spinach puree or spinach greening. Three-parts fill some small, well-buttered, bomb-shaped moulds, and steam in the usual way. Have ready some thin fried croutons of bread in shapes of leaves, sprinkle the surface with fine sugar, and glaze under the salamander. Unmould the shapes on these, dish up, garnish with the crotitons, and serve hot. OIGNONS ET POIREAUX—ONIONS AND LEEKS. Oignons d’Espagne braises {Braised Spanish Onions). 4 Spanish onions, 2 sheep’s kidneys, pint brown gravy, salt and pepper. Wipe and skin the kidneys, slice them finely, add salt and pepper. Peel and blend the onions, scoop out the centre portion (i]- inch across), fill with the kidneys. Place them in a stew-pan, pour the brown gravy over, and simmer slowly for about two hours. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Oignons d’Espagne bouillis. Boiled Spanish onions, served with white or brown sauce. Oignons a la Demi-glace. Boiled small Spanish and other large common onions drained and stewed in brown sauce. Poireaux a la Diable {Devilled Leeks). 6 young le('ks, oz. butter, 3 slices of toasted bread, i pint stock (well flavoured), i gill white sauce (bechamel), 2 yolks of eggs, i gherkin, chopped finely, i saltspoonful mustard, salt, cayenne, panurette or breadcrumbs. Wash, trim, and cook the leeks in the stock, then drain and cut them into three- or four-inch lengths. Heat up the white sauce, put in the gherkins, mustard, and a little salt if needed, stir in the yolks of eggs and allow the latter to bind, taking care that the sauce does not curdle. Spread the buttered toasted bread with a little of the sauce. Arrange the leeks neatly on top, and cut into finger-shapes. Mask each with a thick layer of the sauce, sprinkle over with panurette or breadcrumbs and a pinch of cayenne or Oriental salt, placo a tiny piece of butter here and there. Put them in a very hot oven or under a salamander to brown, dish up, and serve. Poireaux au Gratin {Leeks, Gratin Style). Wash and trim about ten young leeks, boil in salted water for five minutes, drain, and finish cooking in white stock, drain again, and arrange neatly on a well-buttered gratin dish. Season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg, sauce” over with well-reduced bechamel sauce, sprinkle over with grated parmesan and bread- crumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes to brown the top.649 - VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. Fritot de Poireaux [Leek Fritters). 8 large young leeks, i gill milk, -1 pint stock. -1- blade mace, a sprig of young thyme, I- bay-leaf, i egg, salt, pepper, and a gill of well-reduced white sauce, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, parsley. Cook the leeks as directed in preceding recipes. Dip each piece separately into thick white sance, place on a wire rack to set. Coat with egg and breadcrumbs, when set repeat the crumbing. Fry in hot fat, drain, sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper, dish up on a hot dish with a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The cooked pieces of leek may, if liked, be dipped into frying batter in lieu of egging and crumbing. POMMES DE TERRE—POTATOES. Boiled Potatoes. Wash and peel thinly the potatoes, put them in a saucepan of cold water, sufficient to well cover them, add a little salt, and boil till they are tender. Pour off the water, and put the saucepan with potatoes back on the stove to dry for about hve minutes. Shake the pan frequently, to prevent them from burning.. They usually take about half an hour to cook. New potatoes should be put on in warm water. Pommes Puree {Mashed Potatoes). Prepare and boil the potatoes as directed above ; when cooked, drained, and dried, mash them with a fork or rub through a sieve. Return to the stew-pan, and add butter, salt, and pepper, allowing an ounce of butter to every pound of potatoes. Beat up well over the fire until thoroughly hot, and work in a little milk or cream. Crumbed Potatoes. Wash and peel thinly a pound or more new potatoes of even size, boil them carefully till tender, but not overdone. Drain them, cut them in halves, place them on a dish, season with pepper and salt, pour over them some melted butter, and dip each in brown breadcrumbs. Melt some butter in a Yorkshire pudding tin, put in .the potatoes, and bake them in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, dish up in the form of a pyramid on a round dish, and serve hot. Potato Chips. Wash and peel thinly as many even-sized potatoes as may be required, cut them across into very thin slices, and drain them in a cloth. Put them in a frying-basket and plunge into boiling hot fat. When almost cooked, remove them from the fat for about three minutes, to allow the fat to get hot again. Then plunge in a second time for a few minutes to acquire a nice golden brown. Take up, shake well, and sprinkle with fine salt. Dish up, and send to table at once. Pommes de Terre Anna {Anna Potatoes). Procure a cylindrical-shaped timbale mould, if possible, if not, an ordinary timbale mould, and brush the inside well with clarified650 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. butter. Wash, peel the potatoes, cut them into slices about the thickness of a shilling piece, and arrange them neatly in the form of wreaths in layers in the mould, season each layer lightly with fine salt, and sprinkle over with oiled butter. Continue thus until the mould is full and well packed. Place the mould in a hot oven and bake from fifty to eighty minutes, according ,.NNA POTATO MOULD. When done, turn the contents of the mould on a hot dish and serve at once. The potatoes should be baked as soon as the mould is filled, as they are likely to go black if left long uncooked. Pommes de Terre a la Bigncn. 12 small round potatoes, -J- lb. raw mutton, 2 oz. fat pork, i yolk of egg, oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Cut the mutton and pork into small pieces, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Chop very fine or pass twice through a mincing machine, and mix with the yolk of an egg. Choose the potatoes of even size, wash them well, and peel thinly. Scoop out part of the inside by means of a vegetable scoop, leaving the bottom uncut. Blanch them in boiling water for two minutes, drain, fill with the above-described sausage-meat, and close the openings with a piece of potato. Melt the butter in saute-pan, lay in the stuffed potatoes, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Baste well with the butter, dish up, sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve, or use as a garnish for releves or entrees. Pommes de Terre a la Duchesse. Wash and peel about two pounds of mealy potatoes, boil until done, drain off the water, and let them dry in the oven for a few minutes, covered over. Rub them quickly through a wire sieve, while warm mix with three yolks of eggs, two ounces of clarified butter, a tablespoonful of cream, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When well mixed, turn out on a floured board, divide into twelve parts of equal size, shape them square, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, egg the surface, and trace a few lines with a knife. Bake them in a quick oven, and dish up. Pommes de Terre a la Gastronome. 12 medium-sized potatoes, 2 truifles, glass sherry, J pint Espagnole sauce, salt and pepper. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in halves lengthwise, stamp out with a column-cutter as many cubes as possible, put them in a stew-pan, cover well with warm water, add a pinch of salt, and cook very gently for about twenty minutes, and avoid breaking them. WTen done, strain them and put in a hot dish. In the meantime chop the truflies finely, put them in a small stew-pan with the sherry, cook for five minutes, add the sauce, let it reduce slowly, season with pepper and salt if needed. Pour the sauce over the potatoes, and serveVEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. 6S Pommes de Terre a la Paysanne. 8 cold potatoes (boiled), 4 pint of bechamel sauce, 4 cream, 2 oz. of butter, I teaspoonful chopped parsley, teaspoonful chojiped chives, .salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut the potatoes into squares, put them in a small stew-pan, with a little water, on the hre, when hot, strain off the water, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, put in the sauce and cream, and let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, add the parsley and chives, fry a little, and mingle gently with the potatoes. Pile up on a hot dish, and serve. Note.—The reason why cold potatoes are recommended for this dish is because fresh hot-boiled potatoes are apt to break. Pommes de Terre aux Tomates a la Savarin. 8 small even-sized potatoes, 4 firm tomatoes, i onion, i oz. parmesan cheese, 2 egg-yolks, oz. breadcrumbs, i oz. butter, i oz. chojrped ham, salt and pepper, 2 slices of toasted bread. Peel the potatoes, cut off the ends of each, scoop out by means of a column-cutter the centre of each potato, fry in hot fat a golden colour, and drain. Cook the hnely chopped onion for a minute or two over the fire, add the parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, stir for two minutes, remove from the fire, add the yolks of eggs and seasoning. Cut the tomatoes in two crossways, squeeze out a little of the juice, chop up the ham finely, sprinkle over the cut halves of tomatoes. Fill the centre of the potatoes with the pre- pared stuffing, place one in the centre of each tomato, brush over with oiled butter, stand them in a buttered saute-pan, cover over with buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up on rounds of freshly-toasted bread, and serve. Cassolettes a la Parmentier {Potato Cassolettes). 14- lb. potatoes, peeled, boiled, and rubbed through a sieve, i oz. butter. I tablespoonful cream, 2 5rolks of eggs, i whole egg, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, frying fat, ragout of fish, chicken or game. Heat the butter in a stew-pan, put in the potato puree, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, add the cream (if the potatoes are moist omit or use less cream), the parsley, yolks of eggs, and seasoning, stir until the eggs bind the puree. When cold, make up into balls, flatten them slightly, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Cut out the’centre by means of a paste-cutter, scoop out some of the inside, and fill with the ragoiit, put on the lids, dish up, set in the oven for a few seconds, and serve. Pommes* Chateau, Peel twelve medium-sized potatoes, cut them into c[uarters, round off the sharp edges, blanch in salted water, and drain. Heat 2 oz. clarified butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, toss them over the fire for a few minutes, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. When finished they should be crisp and of a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and salt, dish up in a pile, and serve hot. * Abbreviation for Pemmes de ierre.652 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pommes Failles {Straw Potatoes). Peel six medium-sized potatoes, cut them into thiu slices, cut these iuto hue shreds about i4- iuch loug. Wash well aud drain ou a cloth. Have ready sufficieut hot fat to cover the potatoes, fry for about six miuutes, drain well, sprinkle with a little fine salt, shake them lightly, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. Pommes Paiisienne {Parisian Potatoes). These are prepared in the same manner as " Pommes Chateau,” I the potatoes being scooped out in little round balls, by means of a vegetable-cutter or scoop. In blanching, great care must be taken ; they should be brought to the boil quickly, else they will be in pieces by the time they are cooked. Ten minutes is ample ' for baking. They are mostly served as a garnish with fillets of beef, steaks, or tournedos. Pommes de Terre a la Crapaiidine {Baked Potatoes, French Style). 8 to 10 potatoes (large), 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. gruyere cheese, salt, paprika pepper, pamirette. Wash and p'eel the potatoes, cut each in half lengthwise, and slice thinly across, cut the gruyere cheese into thin slices. Butter a border mould, sprinkle the inside with panurette. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stew-pan, fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of potatoes and slices of cheese. To each layer i add a little melted butter, a little salt, and a pinch of paprika pepper. | ■Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould into ^ a hot dish, and serve hot. ; Croquettes de Pommes de Terre a la Dauphine {Potato Croquettes). 10 floury potatoes, 5 j^olks of eggs, 2 whites, 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i oz. ; grated parmesan, pepper, salt, nutmeg, breadcrumbs, and frying fat, '■ parsley for garnish. Wash and peel and quarter the potatoes, cover with cold water, ! add a little salt, cook until tender, drain on a sieve, dry thoroughly ■ in the oven, and rub through a sieve. Prepare a choux paste with ^ pint water, butter, flour, and one whole and two yolks of eggs, stir in the potato puree and cheese, season with pepper and a'little grated nutmeg, and spread on a buttered dish to cool. Shape into croquets, egg and crumb in fresh breadcrumbs, fry a golden colour, drain well, and season with a little salt. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre a la Moderne {Potato Croquettes). Cook and dry 2 lb. of potatoes as directed above. To them add two yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, stir over the fire ifntil set, season with pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and cool. I Chop coarsely ^ lb. lean cooked ham, 2 oz. chicken or veal, and j six mushrooms, mix all in a stew-pan with two tablespoonfuls of well- : reduced bechamel sauce. Roll out the mashed potatoes about a < quarter of an inch thick, cut into square pieces, place a small \ quantity of the prepared salpicon in the centre, fold, and roll in I the shape of a cork, taking care to close up both ends. Dip in I6S3 VEGETA BLES—LEG UMES. beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made breadcrumbs, and fry in l)oiling fat or clarified butter a nice light brown colour. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as a side dish or with a meat entree. Pommes de Terre farcies {Stuffed Potatoes). Prepare cases as directed in “ Pommes de Terre aux Tomate a la Savarin.” Heat one ounce of butter, add a small boiled Spanish onion finely chopped, a handful of grated parmesan cheese, two egg-yolks, and a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, season and fill the potatoes, and bake for a few minutes in a hot oven. Pommes de Terre Doria {Doria Potatoes). -I lb. potato puree, oz. butter, i gill water, 2 oz. flour, i oz. grated cheese, 2 egg-yolks, seasoning. Put the butter with the water into a small stew-pan, when it boils, stir in the flour, and work swiftly with a spoon over the fire until the sides and bottoms of the pan are left perfectly clean, then stir in the grated cheese, the potatoes, and let cook a little. Lastly, work in the egg-yolks, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, put the mixture on a floured board, form into marble- shaped balls, fry a golden colour in hot fat, strain, and serve as a garnish or vegetable. Pommes de Terre farcies aux fines herbes {Savoury Potatoes). 12 round new potatoes, bi-cadcruinbs, thyme, chives, shallot, and parsley, yolk of egg, I tablespoonful of cream, 2 oz. butter, pepper and salt. Peel or rasp twelve medium-sized round potatoes, cut off a small piece of the top of one side of them, so that they stand steadily, scoop out the centre, but be careful not to break them, and fill them with a stuffing of breadcrumbs and herbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and moistened with cream and yolk of egg. Place them in a buttered saute-pan side by side, brush them with oiled butter, and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Pommes de Terre a la Rentiere. 18 new potatoes, ]- lb. lean Imcon, 2 oz. grated cheese (parmesan or gruyere), 2-1- oz. butter, salt and pepper. Wash, peel, and slice the potatoes, cut them into julienne strips, wash, and drain on a cloth. Cut the bacon into small shreds about an inch long, fry these a little in the butter, put in the potatoes, season with a little salt and a pinch of pepper, and toss over a quick fire for several minutes. Butter a deep gratin dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, put in a layer of potatoes, repeat until the dish is full. Let the centre be piled high, and finish with a layer of cheese. Cover with a small quantity of grated rusk or panurette. Sprinkle over some clarified butter, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Potato Flakes or Saratoga Chips. Wash, peel, and slice thinly six large potatoes. Let them stand in water for several hours on the ice or in a cool place, then pour off the water, drain the potatoes, return to the basin, cover again with cold water, and add a large piece of ice. Heat up some frying-654 the new century COOKERY BOOK. fat (lard and dripping), strain the potato slices carefrdly, divide into three lots, and fry them separately in a frying-basket to a pale brown colour. Shake the basket several times during the frying process. When done, drain thoroughly, and sprinkle with a little very fine salt. Care must be taken to observe the following essential points, otherwise this dish will not be a success : Cut the slices very thin and evenly. The fat must be smoking hot before they are plunged into it, and must be kept boiling all the time. Potatoes thus fried and carefully strained will keep good for a long time if kept in a covered tin lined with paper. They are often eaten cold as well as hot, and are highly appreciated in the United States. Pommes Gigolette. Wash and boil about 2 lb. Dutch potatoes, when cooked drain and let cool, then remove the skin, slice the potatoes finely, and toss them in fresh butter. Cut lb. ham into dice, broil over a quick fire. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered charlotte mould with a couple of layers of sauted potatoes, add a layer of ham, a layer of sliced tomatoes, season each layer with pepper and salt, and repeat until the mould is full. The last layer should, of course, be potatoes. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with tomato sauce. Cromeskis a la Jackson {Potato Kromeskis). 8 new potatoes, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), i large truffle, I gill allemande sauce, i yolk of egg, } pint pancake batter, 2 oz. butter for frying pancakes, salt, pepper, nutmeg, frying batter (p. 135), frying fat, fried parsley for garnish. Cook and strain the potatoes, and let them cool. Make about ten small very thin pancakes with the batter and the butter. Cut the potatoes, mushrooms, and truffle into very small dice. Put this in a stew-pan with the sauce, season to taste and reduce, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Add the egg-yolk, and cook a little longer, then spread the mixture on a dish, let it cool on the ice, then divide it into ten portions, roll each in a pancake, cut off the ends. Dip in frying batter, and fry a golden colour in plenty of hot fat, drain, and dish up on a folded napkin. Souffles de Pommes de Terre a la St. Louis. 8 kidney potatoes (not too large and of even size), i oz. of butter, -J- gill of cream or milk (about), 2 whites of eggs, oz. grated Cheddar cheese, salt and pepper. Scrub the potatoes and bake them in the oven. Make an incision with a round cutter or knife at the ends, and scoop out the contents by means of a teaspoon, taking care not to break the skins. Rub the soft parts thus removed through a wire sieve, put it in a basin, work in the butter while warm, add the boiling cream or milk ; stir well, season with salt and pepper, and mix in the cheese. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix care- fully with the puree. Fill the potatoes with this preparation, stand them on a gratin dish or greased baking-sheet with a little] 'EGETA BLES—LEG UMES. 655 puree to make them stand firmly, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, and serve as soon as done. Soufllees de Pommes de Terre a I’Autrichienne {Potato Souffles). Prepare eight potatoes as directed in preceding recipe. To the potato puree add one tablespoonfnl cream, half ounce butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg to taste, and work in four yolks of eggs. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the mixture. Fill the potato shells with this, and bake slowly for about half an hour, or long enough for the mixture to rise, and the surface of it to brown. If liked, a little grated cheese can be incorporated with the mixture and sprinkled over the top of the potatoes just before baking the second time. Pommes de Terre soufTlees {Souffle or Puff Potatoes). The best puffed or souffled potatoes are obtained from the so- called Dutch or Flolland potatoes, but any large and sound kidney potatoes should, when correctly treated, produce desired results. Peel the potatoes rather thickly, trim into ovals of even size, and slice them lengthwise. The slices should be about three-sixteenths of an inch thick. Put them into a pan of cold water and let soak for about thirty minutes. Heat up a pan half full of clarihed beef suet (the fat should register about 260 deg. of heat). Have the potato slices well dried on a cloth, and plunge them into the fat. Let them cook, whilst shaking the pan gently, until they are ciuite soft, but not coloured. Now take them up and drain them on a sieve for a few minutes. Meanwhile re-heat the fat, which should be almost smoking hot this time, plunge in the potatoes, tossing the slices to and fro, remove those that do not puff up. Take the potatoes up again, and set them to drain. Return them into very hot fat a third time, to finish frying. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and dish up. Pommes de Terre soufflees (No. 2). W'ash and peel si.x to eight good medium-sized mealy potatoes, cut them into slices (lengthwise) a quarter of an inch thick. Plunge them into a friture of moderately-heated fat for about six minutes, lift out, let cool a few moments. Let the fat get c^uite hot, plunge in the potatoes, move the basket about, the potatoes should then swell. Drain, season with fine salt, dish on a folded napkin. Marble or Parisian Potatoes. Wkish and peel i lb. of potatoes, scoop them with a vegetable- cutter into small balls, blanch them carefully in salted water, and drain them. Heat up two ounces of clarified butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, season with salt, and bake them in the oven for ten minutes. Pommes de Terre a la Chancerelle. Wash and peel eight to ten large kidney potatoes, scoop out by means of a vegetable scoop as many balls as possible. Cook them gently in salted water, drain, and place in a stew-pan, add6s6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. half an ounce of butter and about a gill of bechamel sauce, shake over the lire until hot, dish up in the form of a pyramid. Sprinkle over with dissolved meat glaze, and serve. Pommes de Terre a la Bovin. Cut some peeled potatoes into olive shapes, blanch, drain, and cool them, fry them in butter and blended shallots, add finely chopped lemon-rind and seasoning, and finish in a hot oven. Dish up and sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Pommes de Terre en Copeaux {Ribbon Potatoes). Cut some washed and peeled potatoes into half-inch thick slices. Next cut the slices into thin ribbons, strain, and fry in hot fat till a golden colour. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and serve. Pommes nouvelles sautees au Beurre {New Potatoes with Butter). Peel or scrape twelve to eighteen new round or kidney potatoes (small and even size). Heat 2 oz. butter in a saute-pan, add the potatoes, cook over a moderate fire or in the oven. They will take about twenty minutes, and should be of a rich golden colour when done. Season with salt, sprinkle with a little freshly-chopped parsley, dish up, and serve. Pommes nouvelles a la Hollandaise. Boil, drain, and dry about two dozen or more even-sized new potatoes, and put them into a vegetable dish. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stew-pan, add a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce. Work up well, add one yolk of egg, the juice of half a lemon, a little white pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt, stir a little longer over the fire, but do not let it boil. Pour over the potatoes and serve. Pommes de Terre etouffees a la Haye. Wash and scrape some large new Dutch potatoes. Drain and bake them in a hot oven till nearly done. Cut off the top of each, scoop out the interior without breaking the potatoes, and fill the cavities with a mixture of butter, cream, chopped parsley, and potato puree. Replace the tops, and finish the potatoes in the oven. Bake to a golden colour, and serve. Pommes frites a la Julienne {Fried Potato Straws). Cut peeled potatoes into julienne strips, wash well, dry on a cloth, fry them, a few at a time, in plenty of clear boiling fat, shake the frying-basket about in the fat until they are crisp and a good colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle slightly with salt, and serve on a folded napkin. Pommes de Terre hackees au Gratin. Cut eight cold boiled potatoes into small squares, put them in a saucepan containing h gill cream and 5- oz. butter, previously warmed, add salt and pepper, and i tablespoonful grated cheese, and heat up. Butter a gratin dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, add the potatoes, sprinkle well with grated cheese and breadcrumbs, place a small piece of butter here and there, bake in a quick oven till a nice light brown, and serve.657 VEGETA BLES—LliG UMES. Pommes de Terre sautees a la Suisse {Tossed Potatoes). Slice as thinly as possible about eight cold potatoes of medium size. Melt i oz. butter iu a frying or omelet pan, put in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt. Cook over a quick lire for hve minutes, toss very frequently, put them on one side of the pan, so as to give it the shape of an omelet. Allow them to colour nicely, then turn out on a hot dish, and serve. Pommes de Terre sautees a la Parisienne, Choose eight medium-sized cold boiled potatoes, cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Heat about oz. butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt, and toss over a bright fire until a golden colour. Dish up, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. Pommes de Terre Noisettes. Select about 1^ lb. of very small new potatoes, wash and scrape them, then blanch them in salted water, and drain on a sieve covered with a cloth. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the potatoes, and fry over the hre for a few minutes, then hnish cooking them in a fairly quick oven. Season with salt, take up the potatoes, and dress them in a paste or potato basket, be- sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve. Timbale Parmentiere {Potato Timbale). ^ lb. mashed potatoes, t gill cream, 3 to 4 raw potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, 2 small onions, chopped parsley, 3 tomatoes, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill of bechamel sauce, panurette or brown breadcrumbs, tomato sauce, seasoning. Mix the mashed potatoes with half the cream, heat up, season to taste, and add one yolk of egg. Mix well, butter a charlotte or timbale mould, sprinkle with panurette or brown breadcrumbs, and line with potato puree. Peel, drain, blanch, and slice the onions. Slice the tomatoes, heat up the bechamel sauce, and bind with two yolks of eggs. Wash, peel, and slice the raw potatoes, fill the lined mould with alternate layers of tomatoes, onions, and potatoes, season each layer with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, and moisten with a little of the pre- pared sauce : the latter can be mixed with a little cream or milk if found insufficient. Cover the mould with potato puree. Bake in a moderately-heated oven for about an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Timbale de Pommes de Terre a la Mirette. 8 kidney potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, 1 tablespoonful Lemco (extract of beef), I oz. grated parmesan cheese. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized dice, and drain on a sieve or on a cloth. Melt one ounce and a half of butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the potatoes and cook them to a nice golden colour, either over a quick fire or in a fairly hot oven. TT TIMBALE MOULD.658 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Great care must be taken not to mash them up while they are being cooked. Cut the truffles into shreds, and mix them with the potatoes. Season to taste, and moisten with Lemco, previous!}' mixed with a little stock. Fill the mixture into a plain buttered charlotte mould, with the cheese sprinkled between the layers. Pour the remainder of butter over the potatoes, etc., and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Unmould, and serve very hot. Pommes de Terre a la Joinville. Wash and peel some even-sized large kidney potatoes, pare them into the shape of large corks, cut them into half-inch rounds, out of each cut a ribbon shape. Drop the potato ribbons into a thin frying batter, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown colour. Take up, drain, season with fine salt, and dish up. Pommes de Terre rissolees {Rissolee Potatoes). Wash and peel thinly some potatoes, cut them into quarters and pare each smoothly with a sharp knife. Plunge them into boiling water, slightly salted, let them come to the boil, then drain them on a cloth. Put them in a saute-pan containing some hot butter, and fry them slightly brown over the fire or in a brisk oven. When done drain off the butter, add a good pinch of fine salt, a little chopped parsley and a tiny piece of fresh butter, shake well, then dish up and serve. Bordure de Pommes de Terre {Fried Potato Border). Wash and peel some potatoes, cut them into thin slices, and then into strips about the size of wood matches. When well washed, drain them on a cloth, and pack loosely in a wire border mould, as POTATO BORDURE WITH WIRE MOULD BY MEANS OF WHICH THE BORDER CAN BE MADE. shown in the illustration. Place the wire cover over and fix with the pin attached. Plunge the whole into very hot fat and fry till a golden brown colour. Take up, drain well, remove the cover and turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle with a little fine salt, and serve. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, seasoned and mixed with yolks of eggs, shaped into balls, corks, or croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, lard or dripping. ■— a la Rouennaise.—Mashed potatoes prepared as for croquettes, made in size and shape of small eggs or olives, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin.VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. 659 Pommes de Terre Allumettes.—Peeled raw potatoes, sliced thinly and cut into very fine strips like matches ; fry till crisp in hot fat, drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a folded napkin, or use as a garnish. — a la Bordelaise.—Peeled potatoes, thinly sliced, fried lightly in deep fat ; then drain, season and finish in a saute-pan containing enough oiled butter and finely chopped fried onions to toss the potatoes. — a la Bourgeoise.—Thickly sliced potatoes blanched, drained, and stewed in a rich brown sauce, flavoured with thin slices of fried onions. — a la Brabancjonne.—Mashed potatoes mixed with finely chopped and blanched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Dressed in the form of a pyramid in a deep dish, sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and a few bits of butter ; bake till brown in a hot oven. — a la Bretonne.—Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares or large dice, fried slightly in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley; add enough brown sauce to moisten at the last. — a la Chateaubriand.—Peeled potatoes cut into quarters, pared to the size and shape of large olives ; par-boil in salted water, drain and fry in butter or bake in a sharp oven ; dish up and serve with a few small pieces of parsley butter (beurre maitre d’hotel) placed on top. — a la Colbert.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into squares, seasoned with pepper and salt, tossed in butter, and stewed in a little rich brown sauce ; a little fresh butter and chopped parsley are also added at the last. — a la Comtesse.—Thin slices of raw potatoes ranged neatly in a well- buttered timbale mould, moistened with very little seasoned veloutee sauce, and baked in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. — a la Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into slices, together with an equal quantity of slices of cold sausages ; fry carefully in butter, season, and serve with a light brown sauce. — fris^es.—Shapes of curls or small ribbons cut out of large kidney potatoes with a special cutter, resembling curls when fried in clarified butter. Season with salt, dish up, and serve. This makes a capital garnish for entrees, etc. — a la Garfield.—Potatoes cut into small dice, par-boiled, drained, and fried in clarified butter. Season and serve. — au gratin.—Potato puree prepared with cream, seasoned, dressed on a well-buttered gratin dish, covered with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a few small pieces of fresh butter. Bake in a very hot oven. — a la Hanovrienne.—Peeled raw potatoes sliced, stewed in white stock just enough to cover ; finish with fresh butter and chopped pamley. — a la Hongroise.—Plain boiled or steamed small potatoes, dished up, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon-juice.66o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pommes de Terre a I’lmperatrice.—Small walnut shapes cut out of peeled raw potatoes, par-boiled, drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and cooked in butter until quite done. — a ritalienne.—Sliced raw potatoes, placed in layers in a well-buttered hat mould with alternate slices of salami sausage and a thick white sauce consisting of cream, chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, chopped cooked ham, and finely cut fillets of anchovies, the last layer of the mould being anchovies. Bake in the mould in a hot oven, and serve. — machees.—Potatoes boiled in beef broth, drained, and made into a ])uree, seasoned with white pepper and a little grated nutmeg ; when served, sprinkled over with finely chopped parsley. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Thick slices of raw potatoes, blanched, drained, and stewed in white sauce and chopped parsley. Season and serve. — melangees.—Coarsely sliced, par-boiled potatoes, mixed with an equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed with a little fresh butter, and seasoned with salt. — a la Mignonette.—Like straw potatoes, only cut a little coarser, and sprinkled with chopped parsley when done. — a la Milanaise.—Raw potatoes cut into dice, pai'-boiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares or dice of cooked ham and grated parmesan cheese. Thicken with yolks of eggs, ^ and place on a dish to cool. Shape into croquettes, then egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat, drain, and dish up. — a la Mont-Dore.—Mashed potatoes, mixed with cream, grated cheese and seasoning, filled in shells and baked in oven. — a la Mousseline.—Fried potato balls (croquettes), interior filled with whipped seasoned cream ; re-heated before serving. — a la Nantaise.—Mashed potatoes, dished up in dome shape, masked with supreme sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, and browned in the oven. — a la Navarraise.—Peeled potatoes cut into half-inch squares, fried in sweet oil, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. — persilI6es.—Peeled potatoes cut into shapes of walnuts or large olives > boiled in salted water, drained, and fried or sauted in fresh butter. Dish up, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. — Poisson.—New kidney potatoes pared into cube shapes, cooked in salted water, drained, and tossed over the fire in a little fish stock, enriched with butter, seasoned and chopped parsley added just before serving. — en Pur6e a la Jackson.—Mashed potatoes finished with cream and seasoned, garnished with fillets of gorgona anchovies. — a la Suedoise.—Slices of raw potatoes blanched, and stewed in rich meat gravy. A few thin slices of fried onion are added at the last with the seasoning. — a la Turque.—Potato puree prepared as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and baked in clarified butter.VEGETABLES—LEGUMES. 661 Pommes de Terre a la Vaudoise.—Sliced peeled raw iK)taloes, ranged in layers on a buttered baking-dish ; season each layer with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated gruyere cheese. Sprinkle grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter over the top, and bake in a hot oven. — a la Viennoise.—Raw potatoes cut into fairly large dice, par-boiled, drained, and stewed in seasoned beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves. Dish up and sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley. — a la Villageoise.—Finely chopped cold potatoes seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, stewed in a little stock,' some cream, and a little fresh butter. — a la Worlitz.—Potato purfe prepared as for croquettes shaped into oblongs or squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese on one side only, adding a small piece of lobster butter on the centre of each. Bake in a very hot oven to brown the surface. Quenelles de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, well seasoned and mixed with egg-yolks, shaped into quenelles and poached in salted water or seasoned stock, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fresh breadcrumbs fried in Initter. Salsifis a la Villeroy {Fried Salsify). ^^'ash a bundle of salsify. Scrape the roots carefully and trim them, put each in a basin of water seasoned with lemon-juice as they are cleaned. Cook till tender in salted water, and drain when done, put them in a pie-dish and season with oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley. At the end of half an hour drain, dip in frying batter (p. 135), drop into boiling fat, fry to a golden brown colour, drain on paper, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Salsifis a la Poulette. Salsify cooked, i.e. boiled, as above directed, can be hnished in a parsley sauce—that is, bechamel and chopped parsley flavoured with lemon-juice—and cooked for ten minutes. Beignets de Salsifis.—Boiled salsify prepared as directed above, drained, seasoned, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. Drained on a cloth or paper and dished up. Salsifis a la Bechamel.—Wash and scrape some salsify and cook in milk and salted water acidulated with lemon-juice. Drain when done and finish in a well-prepared bechamel sauce. — au Beurre fondu.—Wash and scrape the salsify, cook till tender in salted water acidulated with lemon-juice ; drain and dish up, pour over some melted butter, and serve. — Hollandaise.—Salsify boiled as directed above, then stewed in stock and served with Hollandaise sauce. TOMATES TOMATOES. Tomates a I’Americaine {Iced Stuffed Tomatoes). Choose six to eight even-sized ripe but linn tomatoes, hollow out as much as possible of the soft centre portion of fhe tomatoes. Remove the seeds and mix the pulp with an equal quantity ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 662 stiff mayonnaise (p. 152). To this add finely-chopped celery and ripe pine-apple in equal parts. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture and })lace them in the ice-box for at least two hours. To serve, put each tomato on a lettuce-leaf, dress neatly on a silver-plated entree dish or glass dish, and garnish with watercress and radishes, the latter should be so arranged as to form a wreath round the dish, with the tomatoes in the centre. Tomates a la Bouquetiere {Cold Dish). 8 medium-sized tomatoes, i tablespoonful salad oil, i gill cooked macedoine vegetables, i truffle, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, I dessertspoonful chopped parsley, -J- lemon, i oz. French capers, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Immerse the tomatoes in boiling water for a few seconds, peel them carefully, and scoop out the centre. Cut the tongue, chicken, and truffle into fine shreds or dice, put these with the macedoine in a basin, season with oil, lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, mix with the capers and chopped parsley. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, dish up on a glass dish, and serve. Tomates aux Champignons {Tomatoes with Mushrooms). 8 medium-sized ripe but firm tomatoes, 10 to 12 preserved mushrooms or 6 large fresh cup mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls white breadcrumbs, \ teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls rich demi-glace or Madeira sauce, 8 rounds of fried bread (croutons), seasoning. Remove the stalks from the tomatoes, wipe them with a cloth. Scoop out carefully a portion of the pulp, taking care not to break the tomatoes. Chop the mushrooms and shallots finely, fry them lightly in an ounce of butter, add the breadcrumbs and parsley, moisten with the sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Fill the cavities of the tomatoes with this, put a tiny bit of butter on top, and cook them in a well-buttered saute-pan in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dress them on the bread croutons, dish up, and garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. Serve hot. Beignets de Tomates {Tomato Fritters). 6 ripe but firm tomatoes (small), i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i table- spoonful salad oil, 1 lemon, pepper and salt, frying batter (p. 135), and fat. Cut each tomato across into three slices, season lightly wflth pepper and salt, sprinkle over the parsley, oil, and lemon-juice. Drop each piece of tomato into the batter, so as to coat it com- pletely. Take out with a skewer or fork, drop into the hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain on paper or cloth, dish up, and serve hot. Tomates farcies a I’Aspic {Stuffed Tomatoes in Jelly). 6 even-sized ripe and firm tomatoes, about i pint aspic, 4 gorgona anchovies (filleted), I dessertspoonful capers, i hard-boiled yolk of egg, mayonnaise sance, parsley, 2 lettuces. Wipe the tomatoes, carefully scoop out the centre oy means of a colnmn-cutter or a teaspoon. Chop the capers, yolk of egg, and anchovy fillets, mix with a gill of mayonnaise and a gill of aspic, stir over the ice until nearly set, then fill the cavities of the tomatoes, cover with a sprig of parsley, and put on the ice to set.VEGETA BLES—LJzGUMES. 663 Coat each tomato several times with half-set aspic, or line some little moulds with aspic and set the tomatoe^s in the same. Have ready the lettuces, washed and divided into small ])ieces, season with salt and j)cp])er, dress with mayonnaise, and put in the centre of a dish. Arrange the prepared tomatoes round the salad, garnish with sprigs of parsley and blocks of aspic jelly. Lobster or any other kind of cooked fish may be used for the stuffing in place of the anchovies. Tomates farcies a Tltalienne (Stuffed Tomatoes. Italian Style). Cut out the centres of 8 or 9 tomatoes, making the openings as small as possible, and remove the pulp. Fry a chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, add two ounces of finely chopped cooked ham, fry a little longer, next add the tomato pulp, a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, six.chopped mushrooms, and a small handful of fresh breadcrumbs, mix well over the fire, season with pepper and salt, and bind with one ladleful of veloutee sauce and two yolks of eggs, stir again over the fire for a minute or two. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, drop a little oiled butter on top of each, bake in the oven for half an hour. Dish up on a hot dish, reduce a little brown sauce with the gravy from the tomatoes, pour over, and serve. Tomates farcies a la Suisse (Stuffed Tomatoes, hot, Swiss Style). 8 to 10 small, lipe, and firm tomatoes, a small terrine foie-gras, 4 preserved mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls Madeira sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, I tablespoonfnl grated Swiss cheese, i oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley. Remove the fat from the foie-gras, cut it into very small dice, chop finely the mushrooms, put the ham, mushrooms, and foie-gras in a basin, moisten with the sauce, add the cheese and a little chopped parsley, season to taste, and mix well. Remove some of the pulp from the tomatoes, and fill them with this preparation, place a tiny piece of butter on top of each, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Place them on rounds of buttered toast, a little larger than the tomatoes. Place the tomatoes on these, dish up, and serve. Okra aux Tomates. I lb. fresh tomatoes or a quart can of preserved ones, i tin or bottle of preserved okra, a couple of slices of onion, i oz. butter, salt, pepper, a slice of toasted bread, seasoning. If fresh tomatoes are used, remove the stems and cut the fruit into slices. Fry the chopped onion in butter for a few moments, add the tomatoes, simmer for about three-quarters of an hour, season slightly with pepper and salt, and add the contents of a tin or bottle of okra, and stew gently for at least half an hour longer. Dish up tastefully, garnish with neat slices of toasted bread, and serve hot. Souffles a la Tomate (Tomato SouffUs). I oz. butter, 1 oz. Hour, i oz. ham. i pint white .stock, i gill milk and cream, I small onion stuck with one clove, 6 peppercorns, ^ whites of eggs, i gill concentrated tomato puree, a pinch paprika pepper and salt, souffle cases.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 664 Melt the butter, stir in the flour, let it cook without browning, and add the boiling milk and cream. Boil up the stock with the onion and peppercorns, let it reduce to half its original quantity, and strain into the sauce, add the ham, cut into dice, let the whole simmer until well reduced, and rub through a fine sieve, stir in the tomato puree, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture with the seasoning. Three-parts All some souffle cases, and bake in a moderately heated oven from ten to flfteen minutes. Tomates sautees {Tomatoes tossed in Bnttey). Cut some ripe but Arm tomatoes into slices, peel and chop some shallots, fry them in butter in a saute-pan, add the tomatoes, season and fry them in the oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. Tomates a la Napolitaine [Baked Tomatoes with Eg^s). Cut eight large ripe but Arm tomatoes in halves, remove the seeds, and place them, cut side upwards, in a saute-pan containing an ounce of oiled butter or an equal quantity of best olive oil. Season the tomatoes with salt and pepper, and bake in a hot oven for six minutes. Break carefully a fresh egg on each half of the tomatoes, return the pan to the oven, and bake for another six minutes, long enough to set the egg. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley in the centre of each egg, pour some hot demi-glace or tomato sauce, well seasoned, round the base of the dish, and serve at once. Tomates a la Rentiere {Stuffed and Jellied Tomatoes). Immerse some firm tomatoes into boiling water, skin them, scoop out the centre and fill the cavity of each with pounded ox- tongue, cream, picked shrimps, and mayonnaise cream (mixed with a little aspic), mask each tomato thus prepared with tomato aspic cream, and garnish with slices of truffle. Dish up and decorate with macedoine salad, etc. Tomates farcies aux Asperges {Tomato Creams with Asparagus). Line some tomato moulds with aspic cream, fill them with a mixture composed of cooked asparagus points, bechamel sauce, tartare sauce, and aspic jelly seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace. Place the moulds on the ice to set. To serve, unmould, dish up, and garnish with a small mixed salad and sprigs of parsley, etc. Tomates a la Bock {American Dish).—Sliced tomatoes broiled in butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. ’’ — a la Caroline.—Baked tomatoes stuffed with rice, previously stewed in beef stock, well seasoned, and mixed with a little grated par- mesan cheese. — a la Creole {Cold).—Ripe firm tomatoes, scooped out and filled with shredded celery, beetroot, and hard-boiled egg ; finished with tartare sauce and dressed on lettuce leaves.665 VEGETA BEES—LEGUMES. Tomates a I’Espagnole.—Tomatoes stufted with forcemeat, breadcrumbs, finely chopped ham, moistened with cgg-yolk, lirown sauce, and seasoned. Braise in the oven and serve witli demi-glace sauce. — farcies a la Reine.—Fresh tomatoes (firm) scooped out, stufted with chicken forcemeat, baked, and served with Madere sauce. — aux Fines Herbes.—Tomatoes tossed in flutter, then stewed in gravy or brown sauce, with finely chopjied parsley. — a la Florentine.—Halves of tomatoes stuffed with a mi.xture of finely chopped chicken livers, grated parmesan cheese, egg-yolks, finely chojiped shallots, fried in oil, and white breadcrumbs, moistened with sherry wine and well seasoned. Range on a baking-sheet, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and a little oiled liutter, and bake in a hot oven. -- frappees en Mayonnaise {Cold).—Peeled raw tomatoes, scooped out in centre and frozen, filled with half-frozen mayonnaise, and served on lettuce leaves. — a ITndienne.—Halves of tomatoes stufted with curried rice and baked. — a la Marseillaise.—Halves of tomatoes, seasoned, fried in oil. Spread the cut sides with a mixture of hard-boiled egg-yolks, chopped shallots, chives and parsley, butter, and jrounded anchovies, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and bake in a hot oven. — a la Provenpale.—Small tomatoes stuffed with onion puree, flavoured with garlic, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — roties.—Baked tomatoes, cut in halves without detaching them en- tirely. Remove the seeds and put a small ])iece of Imtter and seasoning in the centre of each. Close up, cover with buttered paper, and bake for about twenty minutes. — a la Sicilienne.—Select some firm tomatoes, scoop out the centre of each, and fill with a mixture of tomato i)ulp, finely chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mushrooms, and breadcrumbs, moistened with a well-reduced Madere sauce. Range on baking-sheet, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and a tew drops of oil, and bake in a hot oven. — a la Toscane.—Small peeled tomatoes stuffed with chicken farce, and braised ; served with perigord sauce. TRUFFES-TRUFFLES. TrufTes a la Bernhardt. Wash and brush twelve large fresh truffles. Soak them in fresh water for three hours. Drain and put them in a stew-pan with suffi- cient sherry or marsala wine to cover, add a few crushed peppercorns, cover, and cook for twenty minutes. \Mien this is done hollow out the centre of each truffle by means of a sharp-pointed knife, and till them with a previously-prepared salpicon of finely chopped mushrooms and oysters seasoned with a little white sauce and lemon-juice. Dip each truffle in a rich frying batter, so as to com- pletely cover it. Fry a golden colour in clarified butter and one-fourth of olive oil. Drain them carefully and dish up on a666 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. folded napkin or dish-paper. Serve with a suitable sauce or use as garnishing. Note.—The interior of the trnllles removed must be saved, as it can be used for sauces, etc. TrufTes a la Perigourdine. 12 small fresh truffles or preserved truffles braisecs, i tin or terriiic foie- gras naturel weighing about lb., 2 oz. fresh butter, i small glass Marsala or Madeira wine, i liqueur glass cognac brandy, about 2 gills aspic (p. 132), I small bouquet garni, salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, 12 small artichoke bottoms (cooked), tartare sauce. Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles (if fresh truffles are used) ill tepid water. Put them iu a stew-pau with the wine, cognac, and bouquet garni, and a pinch of salt and pepper, cover, simmer tpiickly for ten minutes, and let cool. Pouncl the foie-gras in a mortar, add to it the butter (not melted), the liquor from the truffles, and a little cream if needed, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, mix well, rub through a fine hair sieve, and place on the ice on a plate. Peel thinly the truffles. Chop the peelings as finely as possible (the latter are required for crumbing, and if found insufficient use some tinned truffle peelings to make up the required quantity). Divide the foie-gras puree into twelve portions, shape them round, and place a truffle in the centre of each ball. When set, cover the surface completely with chopped truffle peelings, place them on a tin or wire tray, and mask them with semi-set aspic jelly. Stamp out the artichokes with a fluted cutter, place them on a silver or china dish, put a teaspoonful of tartare sauce in each, place the prepared foie-gras and truffle balls in the centre, garnish with fresh parsley, keep on the ice for half an hour, and serve. TrufTes au Champagne. I lb. fresh truffles of medium size, 3 to 4 thin slices bacon, 2 oz. butter, I oz. raw ham, i oz. carrot, i oz. onion (stuck with i clove), i bay-leaf, I sprig of thyme, pint champagne, a little stock, seasoning. Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles, wrap up each in a thin piece of bacon. Cut into dice the ham, carrot, and onion, fry together with the herbs in an ounce of butter, then add the truffles, cover the stew-pan for a few seconds, moisten with the wine, skim, and simmer for about fifteen minutes. Take up the truffles, remove the bacon, skim the stock, strain it, and work in by degrees the remainder of the butter, wliicli has been previously kneaded with a teaspoonful of flour. Boil up, add a little stock if needed, season fo taste. Dish up the truffles, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. TrufTes sous la Cendre. Wash and brush some fresh truffles, butter one or two sheets of white paper, line the buttered sides with thin slices of fat bacon and thin slices of onion. Put the truffles upon this, season them with salt and aromatic spice. Cover them with slices of raw ham, and wrap up carefully in one or fwo sheets of buttered paper.\ ’EGET. 1 BEES—LEG UMES. 667 Place them in liut cinders and allow to cook for abont an hour. \Mien the truffles are cooked, dress them on a hot dish, co\-ercd with a folded napkin, send to table with a boat of light brown sauce llavoured with champagne. Truffes a I’ltalienne. Slices of truffles, tossed in fresh butter, with linely-minced shallots and parsley, moistened with brown sauce and lemon-juice. Season with salt, cayenne, and a little ground mace. Heat up well before serving. Truffes en Belle Vue. Peeled fresh truffles cooked in rich stock, Madeira or cham- ])agne, and meat extract, served in small, thin, pastry-crust cuji shapes. Truffes a la Rothschild, Peeled fresh truffles, coated entirely with light chicken farce, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat, dressed in pyramid form, and garnished with fried parsley. Truffes a la Serviette. Large fresh truffles, brushed, peeled, and cooked in white wine and stock, drained and served cold on a neatly folded napkin. Buisson de Truffes a la Royale. Large round truffles, cleaned and dried, stewed in Madeira wine, then cooled, drained, and served on an oval-shaped bread- crust, dished on a folded napkin, decorated with silver skewers stuck with slices of truffles and sprigs of parsley. Puree de Truffes {Truffle Puree). ■ iMashed or finely chopped truifies, tossed in butter, and served with very little brown sauce. How to heat up Preserved Vegetables. Tinned or bottled vegetables are frequently used, especially during the winter months, when fresh vegetables are scarce anti dear. The best way to heat up preserved flageolets, macedoine, peas or French beans, is to put the contents of a tin or bottle into a pointed strainer or colander, hold it under the water tap, and let the water run freely over the vegetables for a few minutes. Shake the strainer or colander so as to drain the vegetables, then put them into a saucepan three-parts filled with boiling, slightly- salted water. In the case of peas a little green or dried mint should be added. Boil c}uickly for at least five minutes and drain off the water. Add pepper and a little salt to taste, also a pat or two of butter according to the quantity of vegetables used, and shake the pan over the fire for a few minutes longer. The vegetables are then ready for serving.668 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXIX. FARINACEOUS DISHES. Beignets de Gruyere a la Krona {Cheese Fritters). 2 lb. lirni fresh gruyere cheese, free from rind, panurette (grated rusks), I teaspoonful krona pepper, seasoning, i egg, frying fat or clarified butter, gill white sauce. Cut the cheese into oval or round slices about h inch thick, and of even size. Coat them on both sides with a layer of cold white sauce, and place on a wire tray to set. Mix a plateful of panurette breadcrumbs with the krona pepper. Dip the slices in beaten egg, and roll in the crumbs. Place them in a wire frying-basket and fry in hot fat till nicely coloured (it will take about four minutes). Drain, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve quickly. Gnocchi a la Russe. ^ pint milk, gill white wine, 3 eggs, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. sifted flour, 4 oz grated parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, and paprika, bechamel sauce. Put the milk and wine in a stew-pan, when hot, add three ounces of butter, stir the flour in gradually as soon as liquid boils. Work the mixture vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon until it leaves the sides and bottom of the stew-pan. Set the pan on one side for a few minutes to cool the paste, then incorporate the eggs one at a time, about half the grated cheese, and season to taste with a pinch of salt, white pepper, and a little paprika, beat up well, and work in finally the remainder of the butter. Shape some quenelles by means of a table- or dessert-spoon, drop them into fast-boiling salted water or stock, poach them from fifteen to twenty minutes, keeping stew-pan covered meanwhile. Drain, dish up neatly, incorporate the remainder of grated cheese with the bechamel sauce, let it boil, and sauce over the quenelles. Serve very hot. Macaroni a la Rossini. Wash, dry, and pound four ounces of raw chicken livers in a mortar, add the same quantity of truffle and foie-gras, season with salt, pepper, grated cheese, and nutmeg, moisten with one yolk of egg, a tablespoonful of brandy, and rub through a fine sieve. Mean- while cook in salted water some large-sized macaroni, when done, drain well on a cloth. Fill the pipes with the prepared farce, using a paper cornet for this purpose. Place the stuffed macaroni in a stew-pan, pour over sufficient tomato sauce to cover. Cook for twenty minutes in the oven, dish up, and sprinkle over with grated parmesan cheese.669 FA R IN A CEO US DI SUES. Macaroni a la Dieppoise. -2' lb. Naples macaroni, i quart stock, i gill bechamel sauce, h lb. chicken forcemeat, \z fresh prawns, 2 oz. butter, lobster spawn, if oz. grated parmesau cheese, seasoning. Blanch and drain the macaroni, par-boil in salted water, drain again, and cut into pieces about an inch long. f\dd the stock, butter, and half a teaspoonful of salt, let simmer until tender, stir in half the cheese, and season with pepper. Mi.x the force- meat with sufficient cooked lobster spawn to colour, and remove the tails from the prawns. Butter a silver-plated gratin-dish, put a little bechamel sauce on the dish, spread a thick layer of macaroni, next put on a layer of forcemeat, then another layer of macaroni, sprinkle a little grated parmesan between the layers, use forcemeat for the next layer, coat well with bechamel sauce, cover with par- mesan cheese, arrange the prawns round the edge of the mixture in a circular form, sprinkle with a few fresh breadcrumbs in the centre, also a few drops of oiled butter. Bake in a moderately- heated oven for about half an hour, garnish with the heads of the prawns and a few bits of curly parsley, and serve hot. Macaroni a la Milanaise. Blanch, boil, and cut into inch pieces d lb. macaroni, and finish as directed for “ Italienne.” Add a garniture Milanaise, consisting of mushrooms, truffles, and ox-tongue, cut into julienne strips, and moisten with tomato and Madere sauce. Another way is to fill a timbale mould with the cooked macaroni, and, introducing the garniture in the centre, steam or bake the monld for twenty minutes, and serve with tomato sauce, Macaroni a ritalienne. Cook d lb. macaroni in plenty of fast-boiling, slightly salted water. When done, drain off, mix or toss carefnlly with two ounces of butter (previously heated) and three ounces of grated parmesan or gruyere cheese. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Macaroni au Gratin. Cook the macaroni as above directed, mix with sufficient bechamel sauce to moisten, and arrange on a well-buttered hreproof or gratin dish. Sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and little bits of butter here and there. Bake in a sharp oven long enough to brown. Macaroni Croquettes. 2 oz. cooked macaroni, 2 oz. chopped ham, i gill bechamel sauce, i oz. grated parmesan c-heese. i egg, breadcrumbs, frying fat. Cut the macaroni into short pieces, heat up the sauce, stir in the macaroni and ham, add the cheese and season to taste, mix well and spread on to a plate to cool. Make it up into small croquettes, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Drain, and dish up. Macaroni a la Sicilienne, Cook d lb. medium macaroni for twenty minutes in salted water, cool and drain them, dress them in a buttered gratin-dish, with alter-670 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. nate layers of grated cheese, slices of fried aubergines, and finely- minced cooked beef. Sauce over the whole with well-seasoned tomato sauce. Bake in a sharp oven for twenty minutes, and serve hot. Beignets de Macaroni [Macaroni Fritters). Boil -i- lb. small macaroni or spaghetti till quite tender in slightly salted water, cut it up very small, drain, cool, and mix with i oz. grated cheese and a little rich white sauce, heat up, stir well, and add two yolks of eggs, and spread on to a dish or plate. When cold, make up into cork shapes, dip into light frying batter, drain, fry in hot fat, dish up, and sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese. A little chopped ham or cold meat added to the mixture makes the beignets more tasty. Ravioles aux Epinards [Spinach Ravioles). i-l- lb. spinach, i oz. butter, i shallot, i level tablespoonful flour, 2 table- spoonfuls cream, salt and pepper. For ravioles ; lb. flour, i oz. butter, 2 yolks of egg, tomato sauce, grated cheese. Pick and wash the spinach in several waters, put it in a stew-pan with very little water and salt. Cook till quite tender, and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt one ounce of butter in another stew-pan, add the shallot, finely chopped, and fry for a few moments, without letting it get brown. Add the flour, fry a few minutes, put in the spinach, stir well, moisten with the cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and cook gently for ten minutes. Put it on a plate to cool. Prepare the Ravioli paste with the flour (-|- lb.), one ounce butter, and two yolks of eggs, milk, if necessary, and a pinch of salt. Knead the paste well. Roll out very thinly. Stamp out some rounds (2 to 2d inches in diameter). Place a tablespoonful of spinach on a round of paste, brush the edge with egg or water, and place another round of paste on top. Seal the edges well, cook the ravioles in a stew-pan of boiling and salted water for fifteen minutes. Drain them on a sieve,' dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, cover with tomato sauce and more cheese, bake in a hot oven for a few minutes, and send to table very hot. Nouilles au Gratin. Prepare a stiff but smoothly kneaded paste with half a pound of flour, half an ounce of butter, three yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt. Allow the paste to stand for at least one hour, roll out as thinly as possible, fold the pieces rolled out and cut the paste across into narrow strips about an eighth of an inch wide. Loosen the strips, shake them up and dredge with a little flour, put the nouilles into a pan of fast-boiling salted water, boil for about eight minutes, then drain and let cool. Butter a gratin dish, spread over a little white sauce, then a layer of nouilles, sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of oiled butter, and repeat in this order until the nouilles are used up. See that the last layer is well masked with white sauce, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the crumbs, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. The dish is then ready for serving.FARINACEOUS DISHES. 671 Croquettes de Semoule {Semolina Croquets). I lb. semolina or coarse-grained llorador, i pint of milk, 3 eggs, i oz. of grated parmesan, i oz. of butter, breadcrumbs, frying fat, pepper and salt. Let the milk and butter boil up, stir in the semolina, cook slowly for twenty minutes, season with a little salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, add three yolks of eggs, and the cheese, beat up well and spread on a flat clish to cool. Stamp out into shapes (oblong or round), dip in beaten egg, crumb well, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, strain on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pain de Semoule a la Tomate [Semolina and Tomato Shape). 4 oz. semolina or florador, i pint milk, \ pint tomato pulp, 2 eggs, 3 fresh tomatoes, i bay-leaf, i small blade mace, i oz. grated cheese, i piece celery, pepper and salt, i oz. butter, -t oz. cornflour. Put half a pint of milk into a stew-pan, add bay-leaf, mace, and celery. When boiling stir in the semolina or florador, work this over the fire until it thickens, then add the grated cheese, half an ounce of butter, and half a gill of tomato pulp. Season to taste, stir, and cook gently for at least ten minutes. Take out the bay- leaf, mace, and celery, let the mixture cool a little. Stir the yolks into the mixture, beat the whites to a stiff froth and add also. Have ready one large or several small well-buttered timbale moulds. Blanch, peel, and slice the tomatoes. Three-parts fill the mould with the mixture and the sliced tomatoes in alternate layers. Put the mould in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for at least thirty minutes. Mi.x the remainder of the milk with the cornflour, pour into a stew-pan, add the remainder of tomato pulp, boil up while stirring, season to taste, and cook for five minutes. Llnmould the shape on to a hot dish, strain over the prepared sauce, and serve. Petits Cannelons au Florador [Florador Rolls). -2- lb. nouille paste, 4 oz. florador, i oz. butter, i pint milk, 2 oz. grated cheese, i egg, 2 slices cooked liam or tongue, breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, frying fat or butter. Boil the milk and butter in a stew-pan, sprinkle in the florador, stir, and cook gently for ten minutes, then add the grated cheese, a pinch of salt, pepper to taste, and spread the mixture on a flat dish. Roll out the nouille paste very thinly, cut it into even-sized pieces about an inch wide and three inches long. Spread the centre with a thick layer of the mixture, put a strip of ham or tongue in the middle of each, wet the edges a little, and roll each piece neatly so that the paste completely envelopes the mixture. Beat up the egg, brush over the cannelons, roll them in breadcrumbs, when dry, egg and crumb again, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain, and dish up on a nakpin or lace paper, garnish with parsley. Raviolis a ITtalienne. 1 lb. nouille paste, salt and pepper, about 6 oz. fish or liver farce, i t gill good tomato sauce, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, ^ oz. butter. Prepare the paste as in " Nouilles au Gratin.” Roll it out as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds about the*’size of a halfTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6/2 crown piece, put about a teaspoonful of farce (liver or fish forcemeat richly seasoned and mixed with parmesan) on the centre of a round, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with another round of paste, press the edges well together, drop these into fast-boiling and slightly salted water, boil for about fifteen or twenty minutes, and drain on a sieve. Dress them on a dish in layers with tomato sauce and grated parmesan cheese between the layers. Sauce over well with tomato sauce, sprinkle over with cheese, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter here and there. Set the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes, and serve quickly. Risotto a ritalienne {Italian Risotto). i lb. Italian or Patna rice, 2 oz. butter, i small onion, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, I pint tomato sauce, about i pint good stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg, -3- teaspoonful saffron. Well wash the rice, drain, and dry it. Chop the onion finely, fry it in hot butter in a stew-pan until a light fawn colour, add the rice, and shake the pan over the fire for a few minutes. Add the seasoning, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and saffron,’moisten with a little stock, and add more as the rice begins to swell. When the stock is used up, gradually add the sauce. As soon as the rice is tender mi.x in the grated cheese. It is then ready to serve. In preparing this dish remember that the rice should be well done, and should be neither too dry nor too moist. Riz a rindienne {Curried Rice). 4 oz. rice, i dessertspoonful curry powder, 2 shallots (chopped), il oz. butter, it gill brown sauce, i tomato, i hard-boiled egg, i tablespoonful cream, seasoning, watercress for garnish. Pick, wash, and drain the rice. Fry the shallots lightly in butter in a stew-pan, stir in the curry powder, fry a few minutes longer, stirring all the while, then add the rice, and shake the pan over the fire in order to blend the rice thoroughly. Moisten gradually with the brown sauce, cream, and a little stock if found necessary. Peel the tomato, cut it into dice, and add also. Cook gently till the rice is tender. Be careful that the rice is kept moistened as it swells in cooking, and stir frequently but gently, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ground mace, and nutmeg. Dish up, surround the base with slices of hard-boiled egg and a tuft of water- cress between the slices of egg. Serve very hot. Riz a la Tomate {Tomato Rice). 4 oz. rice, i small onion stuck with a clove, i small bouquet garni, 3 shallots (chopped), 2 oz. butter, i gill tomato sauce, 2 to 3 .small firm but ripe tomatoes, i oz. grated cheese, seasoning. Pick, wash, and blanch the rice in salted water, and drain. Put it in a stew-pan with the onion, bouquet, and tomato sauce, cook gently till tender, adding a little stock if the rice gets too dry as it swells. Remove the onion and bouquet garni. Fry the shallots in half the butter to a pale brown colour, add this to the rice, season with salt, cayenne, and a tiny pinch of ground mace. Mix in the cheese and keep hot. Cut the tomatoes into neat slices, fry them carefully in the remainder of butter, and season to taste.^73 FARINACEOUS DISHES. Dish up the rice on a hot dish, garnish with slices of tomatoes, and serve. Riz a la Florentine {Kicc, Floyentinc Style). This dish consists of rice cooked in rich stock; when done mix the rice with picked shrimps, crayfish-tails or prawns, flavoured with cnrry paste, grated parmesan cheese, and finely-chopped fried onions. An excellent breakfast dish. Riz a la Turque {Rice, Turkish Fashion). Stew'ed rice seasoned and flavoured with saffron powder, cayenne pepper, Smyrna raisins, and finished with fresh butter. Riz a la Beige {Rice, Belgian Style). Thinly sliced fried onions and finely shredded cooked ham are mixed with rice, cooked in meat stock, and allowed to evaporate. Season and flavour with pa})iika pepper and grated cheese. Riz a la Piemontaise {Rice, Piedmontese Style). Stewed rice made savoury with finely chopped fried shallots, grated parmesan cheese, and cayenne pepper. Dish i.p in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, and serve hot. Riz a la Milanaise {Rice, Milanese Fashion). Stewed rice mixed with finely chopped cooked meat, such as fowl, game, tongue or ham, flavoured with grated parmesan cheese, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. Riz a I’Espagnole {Rice, Spanish Style). Boiled rice, drained and fried in olive oil. mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sw'eet pepper ; the dish is garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. Risoletti {Savoury Rice Croquettes). These are croquettes made of stewed rice, flavoured with rich brown or savoury tomato sauce. Some prepared mincemeat (sal- picon) is enclosed in the centre of the croquettes ; they are then dipped in egg and breadcrumbs, fried in deep fat, drained, and served for breakfast or supper, or as a garnish for entrees. Riz a la Reine {Rice, Queen's Style). This is a delicious breakfast dish, and consists of stewed rice mixed with finely-chopped hard-boiled white of eggs and the white part of cooked haddock finely shredded, seasonecl, and mixed with grated cheese. Dished up in a pvramidal form, and allowed to brown in a quick oven. Fried Hominy Cakes. Boil up k pint of white stock and milk with a pat of butter and half a bay-leaf. Stir in 2 oz. hominy, cook for ten minutes whilst stirring. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, remove the bay-leaf, and add the yolks of two eggs. Spread this on a buttered plate and let cool. Divide the mixture into eight por- tions, shape into round flat cakes, egg and crumb them, and fry in very hot deep fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and serve hot. uu674 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXX. OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. That the nutritive properties of eggs are by far greater than that of almost any other food product is an acknowledged fact. It is also true that by the help of eggs we are enabled to prepare more appetising, dainty, and wholesome dishes than we can with Omelets are no doubt the most popular form of dishes produced from eggs, although the making thereof is but seldom properly understood in this country ; there is, as a rule, a certain knack, care, and delicacy needed in the manipulation in order to prepare a correct continental omelet. These can easily be acquired, and the best way is by means of practice. The best and most convenient way to make an omelet is to break six or eight eggs, according to the size required. It is unwise to attempt a larger sized omelet unless one is a master hand at it. The eggs used must be fresh, and must be well but not over beaten, just long enough to thoroughly amalgamate the whites with the yolks. A little cream or milk, say a tablespoonful of either to three eggs, added will make the omelet lighter and moister. The pan used must be ejuite clean ; it must only be used for omelets and must never be allowed to be washed. The best way to clean it is to make it hot over the fire and to rub the inside with a handful of coarse salt and then wipe it with a paper and rubber. The butter, which must be fresh {not salt butter), is next put into the pan. About an ounce is the average quantity required for four eggs, the less used the better. It must be allowed to get quite hot hut not burning before the eggs are poured in. AN OMELET PAN. other materials that can be cooked on the “ hasty principle.” There are so many easy, inexpensive and palatable ways of preparing eggs for the table that it seems strange so many cooks should conhne themselves to the alternative methods of boiling and frying them. HOW TO MAKE AN OMELET.OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES 67 s Season the eggs with salt, pei)])er, and in the case of savonry omelets with chopped herbs; avoid the use of pungent spices. Cooking is the next important item. As soon as the eggs are poured into the pan, shake it by its handle with one hand and with the other (the right hand) stir the contents of the pan, slowly at first and quickly as the eggs begin to set. The Fire must be bright, but not too fierce. Shaping the omelet is the next operation. This is effected by tilting the pan a little, slipping a thin bladed knife under the edge, and so giving the omelet the shape of an oval cushion or plump half-moon shape. Allow it to form a crust—i.e. to brown very slightly over the fire and turn immediately on a hot dish. An omelet should be sent to table immediately it is cooked, and should not on any account be allowed to stand, because it is apt to become tough. Turning out an Omelet. To do this correctly and successfully, hold the pan by its handle with the right hand, the palm of the hand being underneath the handle. Hold an oblong warm dish in the left hand, bring the outer edge of the pan close to the centre of the dish, turn out the omelet by turning the pan upside down, and then quickly remove the pan. The process of making a simple omelet should not take more than five minutes. Kidneys and Tomatoes. Slice six sheep’s kidneys, previously skinned, fry eight thinly-cut rashers of fat bacon, then fry the slices of kidney in the bacon fat. When slightly cooked, add three peeled and sliced tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, and cook all together—i.e. toss in the pan— for another three minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a little hot gravy poured round. Omelette Naturelle {Plain Omelet). Beat up six fresh eggs with two tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, season with salt and very little pepper. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan, and cook the omelet as above directed. Omelette a I’Anglaise {English Omelet). Prepare an omelet as above, adding two thin slices of streaky bacon, cut in strips and fried in butter, to the egg mixture, or else garnishing the omelet when made with thin slices of fried or grilled bacon. Omelette aux Fines Herbes {Savoury Omelet). 6 eggs, I tablespoonful cream, 2 dessertspoonfuls chopped parsley, including a leaf or two of green tarragon and a sprig of chervil, a pinch of sweet herbs, i oz. butter, a clove of garlic, pepper and salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, beat up well, and add the chopped herbs and seasoning. Cnt the clove of garlic and wipe the inside of the omelet-pan with the cnt side. iMelt the blitter in this pan, and when hot pour in the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire with a fork until the eggs begin to set, then rollTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6;6 towards the side of the pan opposite the handle, and give it the shape of an oval cushion. Allow it to take colour (a golden brown). Turn out on an oval dish (hot), and serve. Tarragon and sweet herbs, or the flavour of garlic, may be omitted. A small chopped shallot may be added to the butter and fried a little, if liked. Omelette aux Asperges {Asparagus Omelet). Cut into inch or half-inch lengths the soft portion of twenty-five to thirty heads of cleaned green asparagus. Blanch them and cook in salted water till tender, when done, drain them on a sieve, toss them in a little butter, add a little stock or white sauce, season with pepper, and keep hot. Beat up six or seven eggs, add a table- spoonful of milk or cream, salt and pepper to taste, and pour into an omelet pan containing i|- oz. butter (melted), stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set, shape to an oval cushion, placing the prepared asparagus in the centre, fold in the ends of the omelet, let it take colour, and turn out carefully on to a hot dish. Omelette a la Bonne-femme. 6 eggs, I oz. bacon, a boiled potato, a breakfast roll, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful chopped chives, salt and pepper. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up for five minutes, add the parsley and chives, also a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Cut the bacon into small squares, likewise the thin crust of the roll, melt the butter in a frying- or omelet-pan, fry the bacon slightly brown, add the bread-crust and the potato cut into squares, toss over the fire for a few minutes, pour in the egg mixture, and stir with a fork gently over a bright fire for two minutes. Fold up in the shape of a cushion towards the side opposite to the handle of the pan, hold it in a slanting position for a minute over the fire to colour it lightly ; take a hot dish in the left hand, holding the jian with the right, bring the centre of the dish towards the edge of the pan with the omelet, and turn the pan over quickly, so that the omelet will come right in the centre of the dish. Serve hot with two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce poured round the dish. Omelette a la Charentiere. Beat up six eggs in a basin, add the necessary seasoning (pepper, salt, and nutmeg), a tablespoonful of milk or cream, ancl a heaped-up teaspoonful of French mustard. Cut two or three ounces of lean bacon into small dice, and fry in an omelet- pan with an ounce of butter for a few minutes. Add two finely- minced shallots and fry likewise, but do not allow them to get quite brown. Pour in the egg-mixture, and stir over a brisk fire till it commences to set, then shape quickly into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to take colour, and turn out on a hot dish. Omelette a la Bernoise. Proceed as above, omitting the bacon and adding about two ounces of gruyere cheese cut into small dice. Fry the shallots inOMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. (177 an ounce and a half of butter, pour in the mixture with the cheese, and finish cooking in the usual manner. Omelette a la Raphael, Make a savoury omelet with six eggs, place in the centre a line stew of hllet of beef (goulash de bcenf) and truftles and fold the omelet. When browned slightly, turn on to a hot dish, and pour some demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. Omelette aux Poireaux {Leek Omelet). 6 eggs, i t oz. butter, i tablespoonlul grated cheese, salt and cayenne, I tablespoonful milk or cream, 2 leeks, well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream, beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stew-pan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, when tho- roughly warm (not too hot), pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly. Petites Omelettes a la Marechale. 8 eggs, 8 slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, giU of cream, ih oz. butter, salt, pepper, Colbert sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add parsley, pepper, salt, and beat up well, add the cream, and mix thoroughly. Divide into eight equal portions, melt a little of the butter, prepare a very small omelet with each portion of the mixture, place it on a slice of tongue, trimmed to required size, and jtroceed thus until the eight omelets are made. Dish up on a hot dish in the shape of a border {cn couronne), pour Colbert sauce round tlie dish, and serve. Omelettes gratinees au Parmesan {Pannesan Omelets). 6 eggs, I large tablespoonful cream, 2 tablespoonfuls grated parmesan, 1 J oz. butter, white pepper, a few brown crumbs, tomato sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add rather more than half of the grated cheese and a pinch of pepper (no salt), mix well with a whisk, add the cream, and beat well. Melt half the butter in an omelet- pan, pour in half the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk hre until the eggs begin to set (it requires generally three minutes to stir), fold into a cushion shape, let it rest for one minute to take colour, and turn on to a hot dish. With the other half of the mixture and butter prepare a second omelet, and put it along with the first. Trim the omelets neatly, sprinkle over with a few breadcrumbs and grated parmesan, also a few drojis of oiled butter, put the dish in a sharp oven or under a hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve with nicely-seasoned hot tomato sauce poured round the omelets.6/8 THE NEW century COOKERY BOOK. Omelettes Duchesse a I’Ecarlate {Small Omelets sUiffcd with Tongue). 8 eggs, I tablespoonful rich chicken essence, a tiny pinch of ground mace, 5 slices of toasted bread, 8 oz. minced chicken cooked, mushroom and tongue trimmings for salpicon, meat glaze, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, i table- spoonful grated cheese, salt and pepper, i pinch paprika pepper, 5 slices of cooked tongue, 3 oz. fresh butter, truffles, veloutee or other good white sauce for the salpicon, demi-glace or Madere sauce. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the cream and chicken essence, and whisk till all ingredients are well amalgamated. Next stir in ■ the cheese and seasoning. Make hve small omelets of even size in the usual manner, using only just enough butter to keep the mixture from sticking to the pan. When ready for folding, place a tablespoonful of chicken salpicon in the centre of each, then fold and shape, let each take colour, and turn out on a slice of neatly- trimmed glazed ox-tongue. Place this on a similarly-cut slice of toasted and buttered bread. Proceed thus with the remaining four omelets. Glaze each with some dissolved meat glaze. Dish them up, pour some demi-glace or Madere sauce round the dish, and garnish with fresh parsley. Omelette aux Huitres {Oyster Omelet). 8-10 large oysters, i tablespoonful cream or milk, i oz. butter, 5-6 eggs, salt and pepper. Cook the oysters in their own liquor, drain them and remove the beards, and cut into small dice, beat up the eggs and add the cream or stock, season to taste with salt and pepper ; then add the oysters. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick hre till the eggs begin to set. Fold over and shape neatly (cushion shape), allow the omelet to take colour, and turn out into a hot dish. Omelette a la Gordon. Prepare a plain omelet simply seasoned with salt and pepper, before folding put in the centre a few slices of truffle and a few slices of beef-marrow, previously blanched and cooked in Madere sauce. Now fold and shape the omelet, let it set and take colour, and turn on to a hot dish. Pour a little Madere sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Omelette Savoyarde. Beat up four to five eggs, add a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, and season with salt and pejqrer. Cut into small dice two cold potatoes, and fry in rather more than an ounce of butter in an omelet-pan, when nicely browned, stir in the eggs, etc., and shape into an omelet over a quick fire. Omelet au Jambon (Ham Omelet). Mince, not too finely, about 2 oz. of lean cooked ham, and mix with 6 well-beaten eggs, 1-2 tablespoonful of milk, and seasoning. Melt I oz. butter in an omelet-pan in the mixture, and finish as directed for savoury omelet (see p. 675).OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 679 Omelette aux Anchois {Anchovy Omelet). Prepare a plain omelet (see p. 675), adding one teaspoonfnl of anchovy sauce and three filleted gorgona anchovies, cut into small strips or dice, to the egg mixture, and cook as directed. Omelette aux Sardines {Sardine Omelet). Proceed the same as for anchovy omelet, using four boned and skinned sardines in place of the anchovies, but allowing the anchovy essence to be incorporated. Omelette a Plndienne {Curry Omelet). Peel and mince finely half a small Spanish onion, fry it a light brown colour in one ounce of butter, add a dessertspoonful of curry powder and one tablespoonfnl of bechamel sauce. Cook for ten minutes, remove the fat, if any. Fill fhis into a plain omelet. Turn the omelet on a bed of boiled rice dressed on a hot dish, and surround with curry sauce. Omelette au Homard {Lobster Omelet). Prepare a plain omelet (see p. 675), fill it before folding in the sides with creamed lobster, or with minced lobster warmed up in a little bechamel sauce. Omelette aux Oignons {Onion Omelet). Proceed the same as for curry omelet, omitting the curry and rice. The onion can be cooked in white or brown sauce. Omelette a la Bearnaise. Prepare a plain omelet, fill it before turning in the sides with a mixture of artichoke bottoms and mushrooms cut into dice and heated up in tomato and bearnaise sauce. Pour a little sauce round the base of the dish. Omelette a la Bayonne. Prepare a plain omelet, fill it before folding in fhe sides with cooked ham and Spanish pimientos cut in strips and heated up in tomato sauce. Pour a little of the latter round the omelet. Omelette a la Cervelle {Brain Omelet). Prepare and cook a plain omelet filled with cooked calf’s brains cut in small pieces and stewed in seasoned white sauce. Omelette aux Champignons {Mushroom Omelet). Cut twelve to eighteen preserved mushrooms into slices, cook them in Madeira sauce. Fill into the centre of a plain omelet, fold in the sides, and turn out on a hot disli. Omelette aux Concombres {Cucumher Omelet). Peel half a cucumber, cut it in half lcngthwa3^s, scoop out the seedy part, cut up into slices and stew in cream sauce. Fill with it a plain omelet. Omelette aux Epinards {Spinach Omelet). Rub half a pound of cooked spinach fhrough a sieve. Heat it up with a little bechamel or brown sauce, season to taste, and fill68o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. into the centre of a plain omelet. Ponr a little gravy or brown sauce round the omelet. Omelette au Fromage {Cheese Omelet). Beat up six eggs with one ounce of grated gruyere cheese and two tablespoonfuls of milk. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan and cook the omelet as directed for plain omelet. Sprinkle over the surface of the omelet with a little grated cheese. Omelette au Lentilles [Lentil Omelet). Fry two slices of nicely-minced onion in half an ounce of butter, put in one gill of cooked lentils, stir well, and add half a gill of brown sauce. Cook for ten minutes, and hll with it a plain or savoury omelet (see p. 675). Omelette aux Rognons [Kidney Omelet). Slice thinly two small sheep’s kidneys, season and dredge with flour, and fry in an omelet-pan containing half an ounce of butter and one hnely-minced shallot fried lightly. Toss the kidneys in this over a quick hre for hve minutes, add half a gill of Madere sauce, and cook for another five minutes. Make a plain omelet, fill the above in the centre of it, fold in carefully, and turn out on a hot dish, Omelette aux Tomates [Tomato Omelet). Steep two or three small ripe tomatoes in hot water and skin them. Cut them into slices and toss them in a little butter over a quick fire, season well, and fill with it a plain or savoury omelet. Pour a little tomato sauce round the base of the dish, Omelette aux TrufTes [Truffle Omelet). Proceed the same as for mushroom omelet (see p. 679), using six trufiles in place of the mushrooms. ‘ Omelette Soufflees au Poisson [FishJRiff Omelet). Shred finely one small cooked whiting or a slice of cooked cod, heat it up in a little butter, and season to taste. Stir this into a mixture made as directed below, and bake in a well-buttered pan in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out into a hot dish, and serve with tomato sauce. Omelette Souffle aux fines herbes [Savoury Puff Omelet). Beat up lightly the yolks of six eggs and whisk stiffly the whites of three, stir into the former one tablespoonful cornflour mixed with \ gill of cream or milk, season with salt and pepper, and stir in one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley; add the whites of egg last of all. Melt half an ounce of butter in a buttered souffle dish or omelet })an, pour in the mixture, and set the pan into a hot oven. When it thickens add tlie remaining whites of eggs, well whisked with a pinch of salt, and SOUFFLE OMELET DISH.681 OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. return to oven until a delicate brown. Turn it out on to a hot dish, or send to table in the souffle dish, if such is used. Serve at once. PLATS D’CEUFS—EGG DISHES. (Eufs poches au Vin blanc [Poached Eggs in White Wine). Poach carefully six to eight eggs in slightly salted water, lla\'onred with white wine and a few drops of lemon-juice. Have ready as many fried bread croutons as there are poached eggs. Take up the eggs, trim them neatly, and place them on the croutons, then dish up. Have ready a sauce prepared with one gill of reduced white wine, an ounce and a half of meat glaze, and one ounce of butter, the latter must be whisked in in very small quantities, and must not boil. Season with a good pinch of cayenne or krona pepper. Mask the eggs with the sauce, which must be thick enough to coat them nicely, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over each egg, and serve. (Eufs aux Nouilles a la Carola. Prepare some nouille paste (see p. 134), cut it into very thin strips, and blanch in salted water for three minutes, drain and toss in butter. Season with nutmeg and pepper, and put some on a buttered fireproof dish. Dredge well with grated cheese. Upon this range a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of nouilles, and lastly a layer of fresh mushrooms, seasoned, and tossed in butter. Cover with a well-reduced bechamel sauce, strew with grated cheese and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. (Eufs a la Suzette. Cut some baked potatoes in halves lengthwise, scoop out the mealy part and mix with bechamel sauce, grated cheese, and seasoning. Line the potato crusts with this and put in each a poached egg (neatly trimmed). Spread some of the mixture over each, and sprinkle with cheese and breadcrumbs and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven and serve hot. (Eufs a la Princesse [Egg Darioles). 4 to 6 eggs, I oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 oz. butter, a haudlul cooked asparagus points, preserved la.v, salt, paprika pepper, tomato sauce, toasted bread. Butter four to six small dariole moulds, sprinkle with grated cheese and a few pinches of paprika pepper, break an egg carefully into each mould, and season with pepper and salt. Place the moulds in a saute-pan, containing enough hot water to reach half- way up the mould, and cook on the stove or in the oven until the whites of the eggs are set. Stamp out some rounds or ovals of toasted bread about the size of an egg, butter them well on one side, and lay a slice of lax on each. Toss the asparagus points in a little butter, season to taste, and put in la5^ers on the buttered toast. Turn out the moulds on top of the asparagus, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat of tomato sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 682 Fricassee d’CEufs {Fricasseed Eggs). 6 eggs, i-J- oz. butter, i gill cream, t gill bechamel sauce, a small shallot, pepper, salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, fried bread croutons, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes, lay them in cold water, take off the shells, cut them in halves crosswise, take out the yolks for garnish. Peel the shallot and chop finely. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the shallot, and fry a golden colour. Add the sauce, let it come to the boil, mix in the cream, when hot put in the whites of eggs, add the seasoning. Stir gently, or, better, shake the pan so as not to break the slices, and keep on the fire until hot. Warm up the yolks in a little thin white sauce, dress them in the centre of a dish, put the whites round the yolks as neatly as possible, sprinkle over with some chopped parsley, garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. (Eufs a la Dreux. 6 eggs, lb. lean ham (cooked), i dessertspoonful chopped parsley, oz. butter, J gill cream, salt and pepper, cayenne, six rounds of buttered toast. Butter thickly six deep patty-pans, chop the ham finely and mix with the parsley, sprinkle well the patty-pans with this, so as to completely cover the inside of each pan, break an egg carefully into each pan, season with a pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne, divide the cream equally on top of each egg, and put a tiny piece of butter in each. Put the tins in a saute-pan three-parts full of boiling water, place in the oven, and poach until the whites are completely set. Have ready some rounds of buttered toast as nearly as possible the size of the patty-pans, turn out the eggs and dress them carefully on the toast, dish up, and serve very hot. (Eufs a la Milanaise. 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls grated parmesan cheese, i tablespoonful cream, toasted bread, pepper, about | gill tomato sauce, oz. butter. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up well with a tablespoonful of grated parmesan cheese and the cream, add a pinch of pepper. Divide this into four equal parts. Melt a little butter in an omelet- pan, pour in one part and make into a small omelet, taking care that the omelet is of a nice cushion shape. Proceed thus until four omelets are made. Roll each in parmesan cheese, put them on oval shapes of buttered toast, sprinkle the surface with more par- niesan, put them on a baking-sheet, and place in a hot oven for two minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, pour round some hot tomato sauce, and serve. (Eufs a la Boston. 6 eggs, 11- oz. butter, large onion, i tcaspoonful Hour, i gill milk or cream, 2 oz. chopped cooked ham, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. ^ gill Madere sauce. Peel and slice the onion, fry it in an ounce of butter to a golden colour, sprinkle in the iiour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with the milk or cream, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch each of pepper and nutmeg. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs and put the yolks with the onions, etc., stirOMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 683 Well, and add one ounce of chopped ham. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the above. Butter a round baking-tin or gratin-dish, dress the mixture neatly on it, sprinkle the top with chopped ham, bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, when done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Madere sauce. CEufs brouilles {Scrambled Eggs). 6 eggs, J gill cream, oz. butter, salt and pepjjer to taste, toasted bread (buttered). Break the eggs into a basin, add pepper and salt, beat with a fork until the yolks and whites are thoroughly mixed. Put it in a stew-pan with the butter and cream, stir over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set. Have ready a square piece of toasted bread well buttered, cut each into quarters, put neatly on a hot dish, turn the egg mixture on to this, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Or, instead of dressing the eggs on toast, put the mixture, heaped up, in the centre of a dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. CEufs brouilles aux Pointes d’Asperges. 6 eggs, I gill aspai'agus tips, 2 oz. butter, i tablespoonful cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Boil the asparagus tips in salted water until tender, drain well, put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter, and saute over the fire for five minutes. Break the eggs in a basin, add the cream, season with a little salt, a pinch of pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, beat up well, put it in a stew-pan with the remaining ounce of butter, stir over the fire for a little while, then add the asparagus, and stir again until the eggs begin to set. Dish up on a hot clish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Slices of cucumber in place of asparagus points will be found a nice change. pinch of castor sugar should be added when sauteing, if cucumber is used. CEufs brouilles aux Anchois {Anchovy Buttered Eggs). 6 eggs, I teaspoonful anchovy essence, i-J oz. butter, 2 tablespoon fuls cream, 6 gorgona anchovies, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt, toasted slices of bread, parsley for garnish. Wdpe the anchovies with a damp cloth, remove the fillets, and cut into stri])s. Cut the toast in oblong slices about three inches long and two inches broad, and butter them. Beat up the eggs, ])ut them, together with the anchovy essence, an ounce of butter, and the cream, in a small stew-pan, add a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set, put an equal quantity on the buttered side of each j)iece of toast, lay the strips, of anchovies across each in the shape of lattice-work, j)lace a caper in each cavity, dish up, put the dish in the oven for a few minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. CEufs brouilles aux Trufles {Scrambled Eggs with Truffles). 6 eggs, if oz. butter, i large trutfle, f glass marsala, salt, pepi>er, nutmeg, 1 slice toasted breatl. Cut the truffles into fine shreds, put them in a stew-pan with the wine and a tiny piece of butter, cover and reduce the liquid to aboutTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 684 half its quantity. Break the eggs into a basin, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, mix thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, pour in the eggs, stir over the tire until the mixture begins to set, then add the truffle, etc., quickly. Mix well together, stir over the tire for another minute, then turn on a hot dish on a slice of buttered toast, dress in a heap, garnish with a few sippets of toast, and serve. Note.—Cooked ham, tongue, mushrooms, peas, asparagus points, etc., may be used as a change, in place of the truffles, but for cooked vegetables the wine should be omitted and replaced with cream. (Eufs brouilles a la Turque {Eggs, Turkish Style). Break six to eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Whisk them well, stir into a stew-pan containing an ounce of melted butter, stir over the lire till the eggs are set enough to be turned out, then dress them in the form of a border on a hot round dish. Have ready a saute of chicken livers (finely sliced and tossed in butter, flavoured with shallot and parsley, and suitably seasoned), put these in the centre of the dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. CEufs garnis a la Coquette. 6-8 new-laid eggs, i oz. butter, about \ gill cream. 3 oz. lean ham or tongue, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Procure six-eight small china souffle cases, butter them well, put a small piece of butter in each of them, also a tablespoonful of cream, a pinch of salt, and a little grated nutmeg, place them on a baking- sheet in a hot oven or on the top of the stove. When the contents commence to simmer, break carefully into each one egg, put a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper in the centre of each yolk, put back on the stove or in the oven, and allow the eggs to set lightly. Have ready the ham or tongue finely chopped, sprinkle over the white part, so as to leave the yolks free, serve very hot. (Eufs Miroire a la Princesse. 6 eggs, 6 rounds fried bread, i oz. butter, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, asparagus-point ragout, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, break the eggs one by one into a basin and slide them into the pan, and cook them in the oven until the whites are set, season lightly with white pepper and salt. Cut them out with a plain round cutter and place each on a crouton of fried bread. Ornament the eggs with alternate little groups of chopped ham or tongue, chopped parsley, and chopped yolk of egg (hard-boiled). Dress them neatly on a round dish, put them in the oven just a second or two, fill the centre with a ragout of cooked asparagus points and serve. (Eufs farcis aux Crevettes [Stuffed Eggs with Prawns). 4 hard-boiled eggs, 12 large or 18 small prawns 3 gorgona anchovies, i-r oz. butter, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne, I "gill tomato sauce.OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 685 Remove the shell from the eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, scoop out the yolks and put them in a mortar, add the boned an- chovies and picked prawns, and pound very line. Rub all tln'ongh a wire sieve, return to the mortar, add the butter and bechamel sauce, mix thoroughly, and season to taste. Fill up the hard-boiled whites of egg, place a prawn-head in the centre of each, sprinkle the surface with a little grated parmesan cheese, put them on a buttered dish or saute-pan, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up neatly, sauce round with hot tomato sauce, and serve. (Eufs a la Carnot. Trim neatly some artichoke bottoms of a nice w'hite colour, cut the edges into a fancy border, keep warm in some dissolved meat glaze. Have ready some rather thick chicken puree, blended with a little fresh butter over the lire. Poach a new-laid egg for each fond, put a tablespoonful of chicken puree in the fond, trim the eggs nicely, place on top, dish up, sauce over with gravy, and serve. Croquettes aux CEufs {Egg Croquettes). Cut six to eight hard-boiled eggs into slices, rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Mince coarsely a dozen preserved mushrooms, and slightly fry them in an ounce of butter. To this add the egg puree, stir well, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Moisten with sufficient well-reduced bechamel sauce to form a bind- ing. When thoroughly hot, pour the mixture on a plate and let it cool. Shape the mixture into croquettes, even-sized balls, or cork shapes, dip each into beaten egg, and cover well with coarse- grained florador or semolina, the former is preferable. Fry in hot fat a golden colour, dish up neatly, and garnish with fried parsley. Note.—The above, dressed around a bed of cooked spinach, nicely seasoned, makes a very tasty dinner or supper dish. Cromesquis aux (Eufs (Kromeskies of Eggs). 3 hard-boiled eggs, 2 raw yolks of eggs, | gill bechamel sauce, 1- tea- spoonful finely chopped truffle, -1- oz. chopped ox-tongue, 5 thin pancakes (unsweetened) or bacon, seasoning, frying-batter, frying-fat. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and chop rather coarsely, put them in a stew-pan, moisten with the sauce and the egg-yolks, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire till hot, add the truffles and tongue, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into even-sized corks, wrap each in a square piece of pancake or bacon, dip into frying batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with crisp parsley. (Eufs en Chaud-froid. 6 or more new-laid eggs, i J- gill bechamel sauce, 1 gill tomato sauce, i gill aspic jelly, i oz. leaf gelatine, i large truffle, slices of cooked ox-tongue or ham, salad and dressing. Poach the eggs carefully in slightly salted water containing a little lemon-juice, when set take up and trim and set them on a sieve to cool. Heat up the white sauce, add to it the gelatine, previously dissolved and strained. Season to taste and mix with a couple of tablespoonfuls of aspic. When nearly cold mask half theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 686 number of poaclicd eggs. This must be done twice, ailowing the first coating to set before the second one is added. Now heat up the tomato sauce and mix in an equai quantity of white sauce and some aspic jelly, when nearly cold, mask tlie remainder of eggs in the same manner. Cut out as many rounds of tongue or ham as there are eggs, the slices should be as near as possible tlae size of the eggs. Place one egg on each slice, mask them over with a tliin coating of aspic, decorate tastefully with fancifully-cut slices of truifle. Dish up on a cold dish in the form of a border, fill tlie centre of a dish with a nicely pi'epared salad, and serve. CEufs a la Colbert. Take four or si.x new-laid eggs. Break each very carefully in a cup, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over about half a teaspoon- ful of grated gruyere or parmesan cheese, and drop each very gently into a pan of hot fat or frying oil, the latter, if of good quality, is preferable for this purpose. Keep the eggs in shape, and turn frequently by means of a wooden spoon. Fry them to a pretty golden colour, then take up and drain them on a cloth or kitchen paper. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle over with grated cheese, and serve quickly. (Eufs frits au Beurre noir {Fried Eggs in Brown Butter). Melt an ounce of butter in an earthenware fireproof pan (casse- role), when hot break into it gently three or four eggs, have ready three or four rounds of buttered toast a little larger than the eggs, spread them with a little anchovy paste, take up the eggs one at a time, trim into a neat, round shape, and place them on the toast. Re-heat the butter remaining in the casserole, and let it get a dark nut-brown colour (not black), then add a des- sertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a good pinch of chopped parsley or chives, reduce a little, pour over the eggs on the dish, and serve. CEufs a la Parmentier. 3 large potatoes, 6 small eggs, i gill white cream sauce (bechamel or supreme), I oz. grated cheese, d oz. butter, breadcrumbs. Wash and scrub the potatoes, dry them, bake them in the oven, cut them into halves, and scoop out the mealy parts. Poach the eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with lemon-juice, trim them, put a little sauce in each half of the potatoes, place an egg in each, mix the remainder of sauce with half the cheese, cover the eggs with the sauce, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, divide the butter into little bits and place on top, and brown in a very hot oven. Dish up, and serve quickly. CEufs a I’Ecarlate {Poached Eggs with Tongue). 6 newdaid eggs, 6 slices of cooked ox-tongue, i gill gravy or rich brown stock, I small glass sherry or marsala, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, about 11- gill supreme sauce. Poach the eggs in boiling water, slightly salted and flavoured with lemon-juice. Cut the slices of tongue into neat shapes, about6%7 OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. the size of the egg, when poached. Chop the trimmings of tongue very hnely. Put the slices of tongue in a saute-pan with the gravy and wine, and heat up thoroughly. Take up the eggs, drain and trim them, place each upon a slice of tongue, arrange on a hot dish, season with salt and pepper, sauce over carefully with hot supreme sauce, and serve hot. Put a little cliopped tongue in the centre of each egg. CEufs a la Courbet {Cold). Cut some even-sized ripe tomatoes in halves, scoop out carefully the interior, and hll with scrambled egg, nicely seasoned. When cold, mask carefully with a stiff mayonnaise and a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish up in a circle, garnish with gherkins and pickled beetroot cut into fanciful shapes, and hll the centre of the dish with lettuce and tomatoes cut into julienne strips, suitably seasoned with an oil and vinegar dressing. Serve cold. CEufs frits a la Fermiere. Grill or broil eight thin slices of lean bacon or ham, fry the same number of eggs in a little butter or bacon fat, trim each neatly and j)lace on a slice of bacon or ham. Range these in the form of a border round a dish, hll the centre with a mixture of vegetables (macedoine de legumes) heated and mixed with a little white sauce. Garnish the centre with Parisian potatoes (marble-shaped potatoes, blanched, drained, and baked in the oven or fried). The dish is then ready for serving. CEufs poches a la Tomate {Poached Eggs, Tomato Sauce). Boil up a pint of tomato sauce in a saute-pan, skim it if necessary, and drop in carefully hve or six eggs, cook them till the white is hrm to the touch, basting the eggs well with the sauce during this pro- cess. Lift them carefully with a slice or skimmer, trim them, dish up on pieces of toasted bread. Pour over the sauce, which must be suitably seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve hot. CEufs en Matelote {Eggs, Seaman's IPuy). Poach some eggs in a rich meat stock, trim them and dress them on rounds of buttered toast, sauce over with a ricli brown sauce flavoured with savoury herbs and finely minced fried onion. Garnish with strips of fillets of anchovies. Pyramide d’CEufs a la Reforme. These are stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled over with hnely shredded ham and truffles. Sauce over with a rich brown sauce, and bake in a quick oven. CEufs a la Garfield. These are very similar to Scotch eggs. Take some hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, and cover them with a layer of farce or sausage meat, egg and crumb them with crushed vermicelli, fry in deep fat or clarihed butter, cut in halves, and serve with piquante sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 688 CEufs a la Messina. Toss in fresh butter as many artichoke bottoms (preserved) as may be required, and drain them. Poach carefully the same number of eggs, and trim them. Range the artichoke bottoms in the form of a border on a round dish, and place a poached egg in each. Mask the whole with a well-reduced bordelaise sauce, put a thin slice of cooked beef-marrow and a slice of truffle in the centre of each egg. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. CEufs a la Carigen. Poach carefully six to eight new-laid eggs, drain them well, and stamp out each with a round cutter. Reduce half a pint of rich bechamel, into which incorporate a tablespoonful of grated par- mesan cheese and three yolks of eggs. Mask each egg with this sauce. When set and cold, egg and crumb them twice. Fry them in deep fat, drain, and dish up on a hot dish covered with a lace- paper or napkin. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce. CEufs a la Gagnor {Cold). Take four or hve hard-boiled eggs, cut them in halves crossways, cut a small piece off the end of each to make them stand, remove the yolks and hll the cavities with Russian caviare. Pound the yolks and mix with an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper, rub it through a sieve, and put it in a forcing-bag with a fancy tube. Decorate each half of egg tastefully with the butter, etc., place them on small croutons of fried bread, fixed on with a little of the puree. Dish up, and garnish with fancifully-cut slices of lemon and parsley. CEufs poches a la Reine {Poached Eggs, Queen's Style). Mince rather finely half a pound or more of cold cooked chicken or turkey, freed from skin, bone, and gristle. Fry this in a little butter, and moisten with sufficient bechamel sauce to form a light salpicon. Keep hot. Poach in slightly salted water six new-laid eggs, trim them neatly. Put the mince in a round dish, and place the eggs neatly upon this. Glaze them with liquefied meat glaze or Lemco, and surround the dish with eight small half-moon shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. CEufs St. Jacques {Eggs, St. James's Style). Line eight to nine small bouche moulds with puff-paste or rough puff-paste (roll out the paste rather thinly, and stamp out the rounds necessary for lining with a fluted cutter). Prick the bottom of the paste with a fork. Fill them with rice or dried peas, and bake them in a moderate oven to a golden coloiu'. Unmould whilst hot. Brush over the outside and inside with beaten yolk of egg mixed with meat glaze, and return to the oven for a few minutes, then let cool. Poach, in smaller-sized bouche moulds than those first used, as many eggs as are necessary. Unmould them and let cool, thenOMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 689 mask them with aspic, and set each in one of the prepared crusts. Decorate with chopped aspic tinted with a little spinach greening. Dish np tastefully, and serve cold. CEufs a la Medicis. Drain a handful of slices of pickled beetroot on a cloth, and sante them in a saute-pan with fresh butter over a moderate lire. To this add four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, season with pep))cr and salt, add a good teaspoonful of chopped parsle}^ and moisten with half a gill of cream, cover the pan and place it in tlie oven for about ten minutes. Dish up neatly, and serve hot. CEufs a ITndienne [Curried Eggs). 4 eggs, I oz. butter, oz. tlour, i onion, i apple, 2 teaspoonfuls cuny powder, 1gill stock, salt, boiled rice. Boil the eggs ten minutes, shell them, and put into a basin of cold water, then cut two of the eggs into four rounds, and each round into two, cut np small the other eggs. Peel the apple and onion, and chop each hnely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the onion and apple a golden brown. Put in the curry powder, flour, and a little salt, stir over a hre a few minutes, then add the stock gradually, and simmer gently about ten minutes. Put in the chopped pieces of egg, and allow to get hot. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, arrange the sliced egg round it, and a small border of boiled rice. CEufs en Feuilletage [Eggs in Puff-pastry). 5 hard-boiled eggs, 1- lb. puff-paste, i raw egg, pepper aud salt, lireadcrunibs, clarified butter or lard for frying. Remove the shells from the eggs when hard, mi.x a little white pepper with some hue dry salt, roll four eggs in this. Roll out the puff-paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, wrap up each egg in the paste, brush the edges of the paste so as to close the ends securely, egg and breadcrumb over twice, place them in a wire basket, and fry in hot butter or lard a nice light brown (this must be done very carefully to ensure the paste getting done through). Cut some rings about a quarter of an inch thick of the remaining hard-boiled egg. Take out the yolk, put each fried egg on a ring so that they may stand upright ; dish up in a circle on a napkin ; fry a handful of picked, washed, and dried parsle}^ in the centre, and serve. CEufs a la Tripe. Make a rich onion sauce, and add a gill of cream. Boil four to six eggs hard, shell them and cut up into slices, heat these up in the sauce. Dish up, and sprinkle with hnely chopped parsle}^ CEufs mollets a la Bechamel. Boil six new-laid eggs in water for hve minutes. Shell them and place them on fried croutons of bread, pour some rich bechamel sauce over them. Dish up carefully and serve. CEufs au Beurre Noisette. i\Ielt half an ounce of bntter in a hreproof dish, break four to hve eggs into it, place in a hot oven for about hve minutes. Then XXTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 690 pour over half an ounce of butter cooked to a nut-brown colour with a dash of tarragon or chilli vinegar. Sprinkle with a few fried breadcrumbs and send to table. (Eufs a la Waldimir. Carefully break six fresh eggs into a buttered fireproof dish, cover with chopped truffles and asparagus points, seasoned, add a little grated parmesan cheese, bake slightly in the oven, and send to table with supreme sauce poured round the base of the dish. Cotelettes aux (Eufs {Egg Cutlets). Mince not too finely some hard-boiled eggs, prepare with these a salpicon by adding grated cheese and herb seasoning, raw yolks, and white sauce, re-heat and let cool, then shape into cutlets, egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in deep fat. Ragout d’CEufs a la Frangaise. Slices of hard-boiled eggs, with truffles and morels or mushrooms, stewed in brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice and fine herbs. (Eufs en Cocottes. 6 to 8 eggs, a little butter, i tablespoonful finely chopped par.sley, 6 to 8 dessertspoonfuls cream. Butter six to eight small fireproof pipkin pans, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Break an egg carefully into each, with a dessertspoonful of cream. Bake slowly till set. Dish up and PIPKIN pan. serve in the pipkin pans. (Eufs brouilles a ritalienne {Italian Scrambled Eggs). Scrambled eggs placed in centre of a risotto border, i.e. cooked savoury rice mixed with fried chicken livers ; a little tomato sauce poured round the base of the dish. (Eufs brouilles an Jambon, Scrambled eggs mixed with finely-shredded or minced ham. (Eufs a la Creole, Rounds of toasted and buttered bread spread with chicken cream, slightly poached eggs placed on each, and finished cooking in the oven ; bechamel sauce poured round base of dish. (Eufs a la Mode de Caen. Slices of hard-boiled eggs, cooked in a rich white cream sauce, with slices of fried Spanish onion. (Eufs a la Carmelite. Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with fried chopped shallots, parsley, sorrel, and yolks of eggs, and baked in the oven. (Eufs a la Chipolata, Cassolettes of bread, shaped to take the size of eggs, fried, and filled with poached eggs ; garnished with braised button mush- rooms, button onions, dice of ham, chestnuts, small fried sausages, and fried Parisian potatoes. Sauce Madere poured round the base of dish.OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 691 (Eiifs a la Comtesse. Poached eggs dressed on croutons of toasted or fried bread, sauced over with hollandaise, and chopped truffle on toj). (Eufs a la Creme de Volaillec Egg-shells lilled with a light chicken cream, and poached in stock. Top of egg-shells cut off, dished up, and garnished with a slice of truffle on each. (Eufs a la Coque en Surprise {Cold). Fresh eggs are carefully emptied, and refilled with scrambled egg mixture, blended, when cold, with mayonnaise, dressed on a bed of crisp celery shreds or endive. (Eufs a la Pache. Hard-boiled eggs sliced, mixed with mushroom heads, and heated up in tomato sauce, dressed in the centre of a rice border. (Eufs a la Pasqual {Cold). Small eggs poached in seasoned milk, trimmed, drained, and masked with chaud-froid sauce ; when cold, dressed in a nest made of baked nouilles, and, if liked, a fish farce foundation. (Eufs poches a ITmperiale {Cold). Poached eggs dressed on artichoke bottoms ; garnisbed with macedoine of vegetables and julienne of tongue and tomatoes ; sauced over with remoulacle sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER EGG DISHES, (Eufs a I’Americaine.—Shelled, soft-boiled eggs, ranged on a bed of chou-croute and sliced ham ; sauce Madere. — a I’Ancienne.—Poached eggs, with grilled mushrooms and grilled tomatoes ; tomato sauce poured round. — a I’Andalouse {Cold).—Poached eggs, coated with mayonnaise aspic, placed in halves of tomatoes, and decorated with aspic cubes and anchovy fillets. — a TArlequin.—Poached eggs, dressed in fried bread croustades, covered with shredded ham and truffle and chopped parsley ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a I’Aumale.—Scrambled eggs, placed in centre of a border of sauteed kidneys ; tomato sauce. — a I’Aurore.—Poached eggs, placed in rounds of pastry rings, coated with aurore sauce. — a la Bearnaise.—Hard-boiled eggs, sliced and heated up in rich bechamel sauce, dished up, coated with grated parmesan cheese, and browned in oven. — a la Bedford.—Eggs cooked in cocotte pans or cases lined with a puree of calf’s liver and cream, and covered with chopped tongue and truffle. — a la Belle-Helene.—Poached eggs, sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with asparagus croquettes.692 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CEufs a la Benedictine.—Poached eggs, dressed on egg-shaped croustades of puff pastry, previously lined with a puree of salt cod (morue), coated with rich cream sauce and chopped truffle. — a la Bercy.—Eggs fried in butter on plates, garnished with slices of fried sausages ; tomato sauce. — a la Bohemienne.—Poached eggs on fried bread croutons, coated with bechamel sauce, and covered with finely chopped ham. — a la Bouchere.—Poached eggs placed on oval-shaped bread or pastry crusts, coated with rich cream sauce blended with beef marrow and chopped parsley. — a la Bourguignonne.—Scrambled eggs, mixed with sauteed escargots (edible vineyard snails), cut into dice, and strips of fried bacon slightly flavoured with garlic and parsley. — a la Brebant.—Poached eggs placed on rounds of puff-pastry crust, lined with foie-gras and quail puree, and coated with truffle sauce. — a la Bresilienne.—Scrambled eggs, dressed on croustades (pastry or bread, previously lined with anchovy puree) coated alternately, sauced over with tomato puree. -- a la Bretonne.—Poached eggs, dressed on a bed of haricot puree, coated with cream sauce. — a la Bruxelloise.—Poached eggs, dressed on croutons on a dish, then covered with a puree of Brussels sprouts, breaded and browned under a salamander. — a la Careme.—Hard-boiled eggs, cut into round slices, mixed with sliced truffle and artichoke bottoms, moistened with bechamel sauce, breaded and browned in the oven. — a la Cardinal.—Poached eggs placed on to oval croustades, previously lined with lobster salpicon, mixed with truffles and mushrooms coated with sauce Cardinal. — a la Chantilly.—Poached eggs placed on to tartlet crusts containing puree of green peas, coated over with green mousseline sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, farced with egg-yolk and game puree, served with poivrade sauce. — a la Chivry.—Poached eggs on puff-pastry crusts, filled with spinach and watercress puree ; sauce Chivry. — a la Clamart.—Poached eggs on tartlet crust, garnished with green peas and finely shredded braised lettuce, sauced over with cream herb sauce. — a la Cluny.—Fried eggs (sur plat), dished up on a bed of green peas, and garnished with small chicken croquettes ; tomato sauce. — a la Colombine.—Poached eggs, dressed on paste croustades, garnished with asparagus points and shredded truffles, sauced over with supreme sauce. — a la Cond6.—Eggs fried (sur plat), ranged on cooked red haricot beans, mixed with finely fried shredded bacon ; sauce Bordeaux. — a la Crecy.—Poached eggs placed on pastry croustades filled with rich carrot puree, and coated with cream sauce.OMELETTES AND OTHER EGG DISHES. 693 (Eufs a la Czarina (Cold).—Hard-boiled eggs hollowed out, filled with caviare, and placed on to croutons dished up (crown shape), masked with cardinal sauce, decorated and coated with aspic, with smoked salmon slices and anchovy fillets, and Russian salad ranged in centre of dish. — a la Diable.—Fried eggs (sur plat), fried on both sides, sauced over with brown butter (beurre noir) well flavoured with chilli vinegar and cayenne. — a la Duchesse.—Poached eggs placed on to potato cassolettes or croustades, sauced over with veloutee cream. — a la Elisabeth.—Eggs poached and placed on to artichoke bottoms, sprinkled with minced truffles, coated with Mornay sauce and grated cheese browned in the oven. — a I’Espagnole.—Scrambled eggs filled into hollowed-out tomatoes, previously fried in oil, and garnished with fried onion rings. — a la Florentine.—Poached eggs on hollowed-out bread croutons, previously filled with spinach puree, coated with Mornay sauce sprinkled with parmesan cheese, and browned in oven. — a la Forestiere.—Savoury eggs moulded and steamed, dished on brioche croustades. — a la Gambetta.—Poached eggs, sprinkled with chopped parsley, each placed on fried egg, surmounted by a slice of truffle garnished with choron sauce. — a la Hongroise.—Sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed with alternate slices of tomatoes ; bechamel sauce, paprika, and grated cheese, coated with white sauce, breaded and browned in the oven. — a la Hussarde.—Poached eggs placed in halves of tomatoes, previously filled with duxelle and ham puree, sauced over with veloutee, highly seasoned. — a la Khedive.—Poached eggs, dressed in tartlet paste crust, previously filled with chicken puree, garnished with spinach and chopped hard eggs ; sauce veloutee. — a la Lorette.—Poached eggs, neatly dressed on rings made of potato puree, like croquettes, garnished with asparagus points and egg- rings, decorated with truffles ; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la Lucullus.—Cocotte pans, lined with foie-gras puree, then each filled with raw egg, a little truffle, and Madere sauce added, then poached in the oven. — a la Mireille.—Oval-shaped bread croutons fried in oil, filled with savoury rice (saffron flavoured), with poached egg on each crouton, sauced over with paprika sauce, dish garnished with delicate tomato stew. — a la Monaco.—Poached eggs, coated with lobster sauce, then glazed, and decorated with small fried lobst^ escallops or cutlets. — a la Mornay.—Poached eggs on toast, coated with Mornay sauce, breaded with cheese, and slightly browned in the oven. — a la Mosaique (Cold).—Poached eggs, masked, when cold, with white chaud-froid sauce, decorated (mosaique style) with ox-tongue, truffles, French beans, carrots, etc., neatly dished in a border of Russian salad.THE NEW CENTURV COOKERY BOOK. 694 CEufs a la Nantua.—Fried eggs, neatly trimmed, dished on a salpicon of shrimps or prawns, garnished with Nantna sauce. — a la NiQOise.—Poached eggs, dished on rounds of duchesse puree, garnished with French beans and sauteed tomatoes. — a rOrleans.—Oval tartlet crusts three-parts filled with delicate brown chicken salpicon, with poached egg in each, sauced or coated with bechamel, and hnished with a round of pistachio border. — a la Palestine.—Rounds or ovals of potato puree mixed with artichoke puree, ranged on dish, and each hlled with raw egg, sauced over with a little cream, seasoned and carefully baked in oven. — a la Perigueux.—Poached eggs, dressed in border of chicken puree (farce), and served with rich truffle sauce. — a la Portugaise.—Sauteed tomatoes well blended with onions, fried in oil, ranged on a dish with neatly poached eggs on top. — a la Poulette.—Moulded eggs (hard or soft-boiled), coated with supreme sauce, decorated and sprinkled with fine herbs. — a la Princiere.—Croustades of bread or rice with poached egg in each, garnished with asparagus points ; sauce Veloutee. — a la Rachel.—Scrambled eggs mixed with strips of truffles and asparagus points. — a la Reine Margot.—Scrambled eggs, dressed in croustades of puff pastry moistened with very little rich bechamel sauce. — a la Romaine.—Fried eggs ranged on a bed of spinach sauteed whole (en branches), garnished with anchovy fillets, sprinkled v/ith parmesan cheese, and slightly browned in the oven. -a la Rossini.—Eggs fried on plates (sur plats), trimmed and placed on foie-gras puree, with a border of perigord sauce round each. — a la Sevigne.—Poached eggs, placed on crusts of fried bread, coated with veloutee sauce, each decorated with a slice of truffle, and garnished with braised lettuce. — a la Soubise.—Egg-shaped tartlet paste crusts, lined with soubise puree (onion), with poached egg on top. — a la Turbigo.—Fried eggs, trimmed neatly, garnished with slices of sausages, fried ham, and tomatoes. — a la Vatel.—Cassolette cases lined with a salpicon of sweetbread and scrambled eggs, mixed with shredded tomatoes and truffles. - a la Verdi.—Poached eggs on fried bread croutes, coated over with sauce Venitienne, and decorated with truffle. — a la Victoria.—Fried eggs, placed on lobster and truffle puree or salpicon, coated with lobster sauce. — a la Yvette.—Scrambled eggs mixed with crayfish-tails, garnished with asparagus points, and served with sauce Venitienne. — a la Zingara.—Poached eggs on oval-shaped croutons of fried bread, served with tomato and Madere sauces blended, and decorated with chopped ham.CHAPTER XXXI. S A L A D E S—S A L A D S. The word “ salad ” is generally defined as a dish of raw herbs or plants (salad plants) eaten with salt, or dressed with vinegar and oil. They are served as an accompaniment to other dishes as a rule, but they may also form a separate course. Oil and vinegar supply all that is necessary as a salad dressing, but many other and more elaborate dressings are used, and in effect often take from, rather than add to, the excellence of the salad. Salad- making or salad-mixing is an art, if not a gift, which is granted to but few. Most people can, however, with study and a certain amount of judgment, achieve success in this branch of the culinary art. Salads are prepared in such a variety of ways, and from such a large number of materieds, that the subject is broad enough to fill a separate volum?. Almost anything under the sun in the way of eatables can be converted into a salad. Nearly all succulent vegetables can be brought into requisition when making salads. The variety of salads is therefore almost endless - raw products, acetarious plants or succulent plants, hot and cold cooked vege- tables, fish and meat, are indifferently mixed or blended together. In a typical plain salad the lettuce is generally the foundation, whilst the Russian salad—Salade Russe—is regarded as the most recherchs of dressed salads or fancy salads. So-called French salads take the lead in popularity, and these are served to be eaten with the roast or separately. A true French salad is dressed with vinaigrette and the fourniture d’herbes ; the mixing of this salad could be tabulated in at least fifty ways, the one rule being that a typical French salad should, in addition to the herbs used, consist but of one kind of vegetable—i.e. of lettuce, endive, batavia, tomato, or escarole. This is frequentl}/ dis- regarded in this country. A French cook or housekeeper will on no account mix any two of these plants together for a salad, because it is claimed that their delicate flavours become thereby impaired, if not entix'dy destroyed. The secret of a perfect salad is good materials, correct methods of blending, intelligent direction, and delicate service. No matter what a salad is composed of, it should always look cool, inviting, refreshing, and dainty. Note.—For salad dressings and salad sauces refer to Salad Mixture, Vinaigrette, Tartare, Mayonnaise, French salad dressing, Aspic Cream.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 6g6 Salade d’Asperges [Asparagus Salad). Arrange the green soft parts of cooked asparagus neatly on a few lettuce-leaves, and pour over a French dressing or vinaigrette sauce. This is a simple but excellent salad. Salade d’Asperges, Neva [Asparagus Salad, Neva Style). I bundle green asparagus, \ gill vinaigrette, i gill asparagus points, \ gill aspic cream. Clean a bundle of green asparagus, cut off the tender part of each stem. See that they are of even lengths, and tied up in bundles. Cook them in salted water. When done, drain, and let cool on a sieve. Cook the asparagus points in salted water, and rub them through a sieve. When cold mix the puree thus obtained with the mayonnaise aspic, a little cream, and seasoning to taste. Put this into a dariole or other suitable mould (this can be masked with aspic, and decorated, if liked), and keep it well buried in ice till required. Unmould, and dress in the centre of a round dish. Arrange the asparagus neatly round the shape, pour over the vinaigrette, garnish tastefully with small garden cress. Place the dish on a larger one, surrounded with finely chopped ice, and serve at once. Salade a la Beauvilliers. 1 carrot, i turnip, cooked beetroot, i small cooked cauliflower, a handful of cooked peas, the same of French beans, stick celery, 6 anchovies filleted, ^ lb. Lyons sausage cut into thin slices, lO stoned olives, French capers, salt, pepper, cold ravigote sauce. Prepare the raw vegetables, cut into half-inch cube shapes, and cook separately in salted water, drain, cool, put in a basin, add the cauliflower, divided into small sprigs, the peas, and the beans, cut into short lozenge shapes. Cut the anchovy fillets into strips about an inch long, cut the white part of celery, the slices of Lyons sausage, and the beetroot into hue shreds. Mix gently, season with pepper, salt, and a little ravigote sauce, and dress neatly in a salad bowl. Garnish with groups of capers, olives, and hnely chopped beetroot, and serve. Note.—The ravigote sauce may be substituted by a vinaigrette (p. 162) or mayonnaise sauce. Salade Beige [Belgian Salad). For this salad use well-bleached Belgian endive or batavia, or equal quantities of each. Trim and wash thoroughly, and break up the leaves into convenient-sized pieces. Season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar in the usual proportions, and as directed in other plain salad recipes. Mix with this some preserved red pimientos, dish up, and serve. Salade de Canard [Duck Salad). h a cold duck, stick white celery, i tablespoonful Orleans vinegar, 2 table- spoonfuls Provence oil, i teaspoonful each of chopped olives and parsley, 2 thin slices of sour orange (unpeeled), i cabbage lettuce, seasoning, bunch cresses, mayonnaise sauce. Cut the duck into inch dice or cubes, wash and clean the celery and cut the white part into fine strips or shreds, mix both in aS\4 LA DES—SA LADS. 697 basin, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinegar and oil, and let it stand for a while. Cut the orange slices into quarters or eighths. Wash and trim and drain the lettuce and the cresses, line a salad bowl with the leaves of the lettuce, then put in the cresses and the orange, moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce, add the mixture above referred to, cover with a thin layer of mayon- naise, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and chives. Salade a la Capucine (Barb Salad). 2 Roinaine or cos lettuce, a handful of monk’s-beard (or barb salad), small beetroot (cooked), a piece of cucumber, 2 slices of streaky bacon, 2 table- spoonfuls of French olive oil, and 2 of wine vinegar, tarragon vinegar to flavour, I pimiento, i hard-boiled egg, salt, pepper, etc., to season. Remove the outer leaves from the lettuce, wipe the remaining leaves well, split lengthwise, then cut into inch pieces. Split the heart in four, and reserve for garnish. Wash these and the monk’s- beard salad leaves thoroughly, and drain on a cloth or in a salad basket. Cut the bacon up into very small strips and fry in a little butter, pour in a little tarragon vinegar, and add this to the cleaned salad. Mix in a bowl. When ready for serving add the seasoning, also enough oil and vinegar. Arrange neatly in a salad bowl with the lettuce heart in the centre. Garnish tastefully with the beet- root and cucumber, both cut into fine shreds, also slices of pimiento and hard-boiled eggs. Salade de Cardon [Cardoon Salad). Trim and wash one or two stalks of cardoon, cut off the root and leaves, and cut into two- or three-inch lengths. Boil these in slightly salted water until they can be peeled easily. Put them on a sieve to drain and cool. Cut the cardoons in halves across, and shred into julienne strips. Prepare a little mayonnaise sauce, flavoured with garlic vinegar, put it in a salad bowl, and dress the shredded cardoon on top of this. Garnish tastefully with hard- boiled white of egg and shreds of gherkins. Send to table to be mixed when required. Salade a la Caroline {Rice and Shrimp Salad). 4 oz. Carolina rice, 2 large truffles, 6 mushrooms, about pint of picked shrimps, i hard-boiled egg, i glass chablis, pepper, salt, oil and vinegar, , parsley. W’ash, blanch, and cook the rice the same as for curry, drain and dry, and let cool. Cut the truffles into hne shreds, and put in a stew-pan with the wine and mushrooms, cover and boil for a few seconds, mix these with the rice, add the shrimps and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Prepare the dressing, consisting of three tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar (best French wine), a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little French or English mustard, pour the dressing over the above, mingle well but carefully, dress in a heap in a deep dish or in a salad bowl. Ornament the surface with slices of hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, chopped parsley, a few small stars of truffle, etc. Serve separately or with a dish of sliced tomatoes.6g8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Salade de Caviar {Caviare Salad). Put two tablespoonfuls of best olive oil in a salad bowl, to this add a tablespoonful of vinegar, stir in, with a wooden fork or spoon, the contents of a small pot of Russian caviare. Slice one hard- boiled egg, and two ripe peeled tomatoes, mix carefully with the above, adding a pinch of cayenne or krona pepper. Dish up neatly upon a bed of lettuce leaves on a glass dish, sprinkle over a little finely chopped herbs, ornament the dish with slices of hard-boiled egg and tomato, and serve. Salade de Chicoree [Endive Salad). Trim and wash well two or three endives, divide into small pieces, drain and dry in a cloth or salad basket, put it in a salad bowl, season with pepper and salt, pour over some salad dressing (p. 713), and mix thoroughly. Batavia can be used in place of endive. Finely shredded celery, sprigs of watercress or small cress may be mixed with this salad, if liked. Salade de Chicoree au Lard [Endive Salad with Bacon). 2 heads white endive, 4 thin slices streaky bacon, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls French wine vinegar. Pick, wash, and rinse the endive, using only the white (bleached) leaves. Divide them into short pieces, and place them in a cloth to thoroughly drain them. Remove the rind from the bacon, cut the latter into shreds, toss them over the fire till of a rich light brown colour, then drain on paper to free from the liquid fat. Now mix with the endive, adding salt and pepper, also the vinegar. Mix the whole thoroughly, wipe the side of the salad bowl, and serve. Salade a la Colchester [Colchestev Oyster Salad). I doren oysters, i small head white celery, 3 gill mayonnaise sauce, 2 table- spoonfuls caviare, lobster coral, 2 hard-boiled plover’s eggs, seasoning. Blanch the oysters, beard them, and cut into small dice. Wash and clean the celery, shred the white parts finely, and mix with the oysters. Season with pepper and salt, toss in mayonnaise sattce. Dress neatly in a large glass dish, and mask with more mayonnaise sauce. Cut the plover’s eggs into slices, remove the yolks, place them round the salad, and fill the centre of each with caviare, put a tiny heap of lobster coral in the centre of the caviare. Keep the dish in a very cool place until required for table. Salade de Concombres [Cucumber Salad). Peel thinly one or more cucumbers, cut into very thin slices, and arrange them neatly in a salad-bowl or dish, mix two parts of salad oil with one part of vinegar, add pepper and salt to taste, and a little chopped parsley, stir well, and pour over the sliced cucumbers. Salade de Concombres et Celeri [Celery and Cucumber Salad). Wash some white celery according to the quantity required, cut it lengthways into fine strips or shreds, and put it into iced water for about half an hour. Peel a cucumber very thinly, andSA LA DES—SA LADS. 699 Cut in the same way as the celery. Drain the latter and put it in a bowl with the encumber, season with salt and pepper, and mix it well with mayonnaise dressing. Heap it np in the bowl, wipe the sides of the bowl with a damp cloth, surround the salad with a border of small red radishes, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle over a little finely chopped French gherkin and parsley, and serve. Ordinary salad dressing, oil, and vinegar, or so-called vinai- grette sauce, will do as well if mayonnaise sauce is not at hand. Salade de Concombres a la Creme {Cucumber Salad with Cream). Mix five teaspoonfnls of sour cream, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, half a teaspoonfnl of paprika, a pinch of salt, ancl half a teaspoonfnl of finely chopped chives. Blend all carefully and add it to the cucumbers, cut into thin slices, without deta('hing, and curl up as shown in the illustration. Dish up and pile in the centre some neatly-cut leaves of lettuce, duly seasoned with cream dressing. Salade a la Contoise [Contoise Lettuce Salad). 2 cabbage lettuces, i hrm tomato, a small haiulful of fine white dandelion, 2 oz. boiled pickled pork, i tablespoonful salad oil, i tablespoonful French wine vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Trim,wash, and drain the lettuce and dande- lion, tear up the leaves into convenient pieces, drain again in a salad basket or a cloth. Cut the tomato into small dice shapes, cut the pork into small dice or strips, fry with a little oil in a frying-pan a nice brown, add the vinegar, heat up. Put the salad, all well mixed, in a bowl, season with pepper and salt, mingle in the fried pork and vinegar; while waim add the oil, last of all, heap uj) in the centre, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, clean the sides of the bowl, and serve.700 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Salade de Crabes {Crah Salad). Take the meat of two or three small crabs, cut it into convenient- sized pieces, put it in a basin, and mix with about one-third its quantity of shredded celery or endive. Season with salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls of sweet salad oil (olive or Lucca), three table- spoonfuls of wine or malt vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Serve on little plates on lettuce-leaves, decorate with slices of hard-boiled egg, capers, and stoned olives ; stuff the latter with anchovy butter. Cold salmon may be treated in the same way, in this case include some sliced cucumber in the garnish and mixture. Salade a la Demidoff. 8 to 10 new kidney potatoes scraped and cooked in salted water, 2 large truffles, 3 young spring carrots, 2 young spring turnips, i lettuce (cabbage), salt, pepper, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped herbs, salad oil, French wine vinegar. Drain, cool, and slice the potatoes, and put in a basin. Cook the trufiies in a little Marsala wine, drain, cool, and slice also, mix these with the potatoes, adding a little chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of oil, and the same of vinegar. Scrape the carrots, peel the turnips, cook them separately in salted water, drain, cool, and cut into slices. Season with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs, and arrange a neat border in a salad bowl, put the prepared potatoes and truffle salad in the centre. Garnish with lettuce-leaves, previously dressed, and send to table. Salade a la Dieppoise [Artichoke Salad). 6 to 8 artichoke bottoms (preserved), i large truffle, -J head white celery, 6 oysters or mussels, I' gib mayonnaise sauce, a few anchovy fillets, i bunch watercress. Cut the artichokes into strips, shred the truffle, wash and clean the celery and cut into shreds, blanch and beard the oysters, or stew the mussels, cut them into dice. Mix all carefully in a bowl, and add the mayonnaise, so as to thoroughly mask the whole. A pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and nutmeg may be added, if liked. Dish up neatly in a glass bowl or china salad dish, garnish with anchovy fillets, well wiped, and some little tufts of watercress. Salade aux Epinards et CEufs [Spinach and Egg Salad). A delightful cold dish can be prepared by cooking the spinach in the usual manner, but without mashing it. When cold, season with sweet salad oil and lemon-juice, and press into one or more moulds. Have ready also two hard-boiled eggs and mayonnaise or remoulade sauce. Arrange a bed of shredded lettuce on a dish (border shape), turn the spinach from the moulds in the centre of the dish, cut the eggs into slices and arrange them tastefully on top of the spinach. Mask over the whole with mayonnaise or remoulade sauce, garnish with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, rubbed through a sieve, and sprigs of watercress, and serve.SALADES—SALADS. 70 Salade a I’Espagnole [Spanish Salad). Cut six small, firm tomatoes, three cooked potatoes, and one beetroot into thin slices, pnt these in a bowl, add to it the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, chopped I'ather finely, and about half a pint of preserved French beans cut into short pieces. Season with pepper, salt, and salad dressing, and serve. Salade Eugenie. Dandelion, endive, Belgian chicoree, a cucumber or lettuce, corn salad, celery, fourniture of herbs, 2 eggs. For dressing : 5 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, i teaspoonful mustard, .salt and pepper, herbs, } a teaspoonful sugar, i tablespoonful capers chopped finely. Butter a flat mould, and sprinkle with chopped herbs, put in the whites of two eggs, sprinkle the top with herbs, and poach till firm. Peel the tomatoes and cucumber, and cut into julienne strips, also the celery. W'ash and trim the other salad plants, divide into small pieces and drain well. Prepare the salad dressing, and mix all thoroughly in a salad bowl a few minutes before serving, nse the yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve in the dressing, and add the herbs. Cut the egg whites into rings, and arrange them neatly on top of the salad with a tuft of corn salad in the centre of each ring, and serve. Salade a la Franpaise [French Salad). Split some French cos lettuces down the stalk, divide the leaves into three or four pieces, rinse in cold water, shake it well in a light wire basket. Place the lettuces in a salad bowl, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over some coarsely-chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, and parsley, mix with two to three parts of salad oil to one part of French wine or tarragon vinegar. The dressing should always be mixed with a wooden spoon or fork in a separate basin, or in a large ladle, a little French mustard may be mixed with it, if liked. Cabbage lettuces, endives, dandelion, and other salad plants are prepared in a similar way. Pickled beetroot is usually mixed with small salads, such as corn salad, chicoree, escaroles, American cress, watercress, etc. Salade de Gibier [Game Salad). The remains of any kind of cold game, r hard-boiled egg, 2 lettuces, pepper, salt, cayenne, mayonnaise sauce. Pickled beetroot for garnish. Cut the meat from the bones of the game, remove the skin, and ent the meat into medium-sized dice. Trim and wash the lettuces, pull the leaves from the stalks, and shred them finely, cut out some star shapes from the white of the egg, chop up the yolk and trimmings, and put with the meat. Dress the lettuces, meat, and mayonnaise in alternate layers, in the shape of a pyramid or dome, in a salad bowl. Sprinkle a little seasoning between the layers, cover with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with stars of sliced beetroot and hard-boiled white of egg. Salade d’Hiver [Winter Salad). A small head of celery, t pickled beetroot (well boiled), 3 or 4 cold potatoes, pepper and salt, salad dressing.702 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Peel and slice the potatoes and beetroot, wash the celery and shred not too small, arrange these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl, season to taste, pour over some salad dressing ; sprinkle over, if liked, a little chopped parsley. Wipe the sides of the bowl, ancl mix well when required. Salade de Homard {Lobster Salad). I large hen lobster, \ pint mayonnaise sauce, i lettuce, endive, bunch watercress, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 6 anchovies (filleted), i teaspoonful capers, 10 Spanish olives (stoned), 2 or 3 French gherkins, salt and pepper. Split the lobster lengthways, remove all the meat from the shell and claws (preserve the coral for garnish). Cut the lobster- meat into neatly-sized dice or slices. Trim, wash, and drain the lettuce, en- dive, and cress, break or cut these into conve- nient pieces. Arrange lobster and salad in alternate layers in a salad bowl, season each layer , with pepper] and salt, and spread over with a layer of mayonnaise dressing. Cut the hard- boiled eggs into round slices, and cover the surface of the salad with this. Coat the whole carefully with mayonnaise, and decorate with the remainder of egg-slices, olives, gherkins, capers, and anchovy fillets. Keep the bowl on the ice until required for table. Salade de Homard en Coquille {Lobster Salad in Shells). I lobster, \ gill tartare sauce, i lettuce, t lemon. Split the lobster, crack the claws, and remove all.the meat, divide it into small dice and season well with tartare sauce. Clean and trim the shells of the lobster, fill up with the prepared salad, and arrange them on a dish. Wash and trim the lettuce, break the leaves into pieces. If any lobster mixture is left over put it in the centre of the dish, and upon this place the lettuce-leaves. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Salade de Houblon {Hopshoot Salad). Procure a bundle of younq hopshoots (obtainable in the spring), trim ancl wash them, then blanch and cook them in salted water. When done, drain and let cool, cut them into short pieces and season with vinaigrette or ordinary salad dressing. ' Dish up and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs.703 SA LA DES—SA LA DS. Salade Imperiale {Game and Celery Salad). I cooked (roasted) partridge, i stick white celery, i or 2 Irufllcs, 3 table- spoonfuls mayonnaise, a pinch cayenne or Nepaul pepper, 3 or 4 slices of cooked and pickled beetroot, 2 pickled French gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls whipped cream. The partridge must be carefully roasted, and not overdone. W'hcn cold, remove the breast lillets and the meat from the wings, take off the skin, and cut the meat into shreds. \\'ash the celery, trim it and cut the white parts into line shreds, cut the gherkins, beetroot, and truffles into similar shapes. Mix all carefully in a basin, sprinkle with pepper, and season with the mayonnaise. Dress all neatly in a glass salad bowl. Decorate the top with whipped cream, slices of gherkins, truffles, beetroot, etc., and serve. Salade Italienne {Italian Salad). Cut half a pound of cold roast veal and half a pound of boiled potatoes into small dice or slices. To this add four ounces of cooked and pickled beetroot, four ounces of pickled gherkins, one tablespoonful of capers, and a handful of crisp lettuce leaves, season to taste, and pile up in a salad bowl. Pour over some fairly stiff remoulade or mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with stoned olives, slices of smoked Italian sausages, and slices of lemon. Salade Japonaise {Japanese Salad). Coat a border-mould with a thin layer of clear aspic jelly, decorate it with stars of truffles or hard-boiled yolks of eggs, pre- viously rubbed through a sieve, the bottom and side of the mould shoukl be completely covered with this. Trim and wash a firm lettuce, cut it into fine shreds, season it with aspic and mayonnaise in equal proportions, and add to it a handful of cooked green peas or French beans. Fill up the border-mould with this, and pour a layer of aspic over the top. Place it on the ice to set. Prepare the following for the centre of the border : Cut two hard-boiled whites of eggs into fine strips or shreds, add to it a handful of cooked asparagus points and a handful of finely cut cucumber slices. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise sauce, moistened with a couple of tablespoonfuls of whipped double cream. Turn out the mould on to a round dish, fill the centre with the above- named preparation, and coat the whole with a very stiff mayon- naise dressing. Garnish the top with rings cut out of hard-boiled white of egg and cooked beetroot. Sprinkle over with some finely chopped truffle, and serve at once. Salade a la Jardiniere {Mixed Vegetable Salad). I small or -t a large cooked cauliflower, i small cooked and pickled beet- root, 2 to 3 cooked potatoes (not mealy), i small pickled cucumber, 2 firm tomatoes, i crisp lettuce or endive, } pint mayonnaise dressing. Divide the cauliflower into very small portions, cut the beet- root into shreds and the potatoes into small strips, slice the* cucum- ber and the tomatoes, arrange all these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl, season each layer lightly with salt and pepper, and pour a little salad dressing (mayonnaise) over all. Pile up the704 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. contents of the bowl, and arrange a neat border of lettuce or endive, previously washed and drained, round the prepared pickled salad. Toss all carefully the moment it is required for serving. Salade de Laitue {Lettuce Salad). Wash and trim three heads of cabbage lettuce, cut off the stalks, break the leaves into convenient pieces, and dry them thoroughly in a salad basket. Put the salad into the bowl ; add sufficient pepper and salt to taste in the salad-spoon, fill it with tarragon vinegar, mix it till the salt is dissolved, pour the contents of the spoon over the salad, and add three salad-spoonfuls of oil. The proportion of vinegar to oil should be as one to three. Mix the salad carefully but thoroughly, adding during the process a few sprigs of fresh tarragon, not too finely chopped. Place on the top one or two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley or chive, and serve. Salade Lorette. The heart portion of a white celery, 2 hearts of cabbage lettuces, 2 cooked new potatoes, 2 cooked young carrots, 4 small beetroot 4 oz. raw lean ham. Trim, wash, and drain or peel and cut into fine shreds the above- named ingredients. Season these carefully with tomato mayon- naise, salt, pepper, and paprika, and mix gently with one gill of liquid aspic. Stir over the ice till neatly set, then put the whole into a previously masked bombe mould or pudding-basin, and place on the ice' for about one hour. Unmould into a salad dish, and garnish with whites of hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, and stoned olives, Salade Macedoine. Macedoine of cooked vegetables, olive oil, vinegar, salt, pejrper, chopped parsley. Bottled macedoine of vegetable is the most handy to use for this salad. These after being strained are seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Mix carefully and dish up, and garnish to taste. Macedoine vegetables serve a most useful purpose, especially so where small quantities of salad are needed. Salade a la Marquise {Cucumber and Letkice Salad). Mix a yolk of hard-boiled egg with a raw yolk of egg, to this add a teaspoonful of French mustard, a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper, stir well, adding by degrees four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and two of French wine vinegar. When well blended, pour it over a salad composed of two finely shredded lettuces, cube-shaped or dice-shaped pickled cucumber, and three artichoke bottoms cut similarly. Whilst mixing, add also about one teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Line a pudding basin with lettuce leaves, and fill it with the prepared salad, then turn out on to a shallow salad dish. Garnish tastefully with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, green tinted mayonnaise sauce forced through a forcing-bag, slices of tomato, and French gherkins. .Send to table at once.SALADES—SALADS. 705 Salade Mercedes [Endive and Celery Salad). Trim and wash two Belgian endives, which should be quite white. Cut the white portion of a head of celery previously washed and trimmed into julienne strips, put them in a basin of cold water, well flavoured with lemon-juice. Cut likewise into julienne strips one cooked beetroot, and two-three truffles. Make a dressing as follows : Rub the yolk of an egg through a fine sieve, and add to it a teaspoonful of chopped chervil, half a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon. Stir in three tablespoonfuls of best salad oil, and the strained juice of two lemons. Mix well, adding a good pinch of krona pepper, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Season the endive lightly with this, and dress it in the centre of a dome-shaped salad bowl, cover it with thin slices of tomato peeled and freed from seeds. Arrange the celery (well drained), beetroot, and truffle in neat little groups round the salad to form a border. Serve the salad dressing separately in a boat. Salade a la Meuniere [Oyster and Celery Salad). 1 dozen large oysters, i large head white celery, gill cream, \ gill tarragon vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, 4 teaspoonful made mustard, h oz. butter, salt, cayenne pepper, i tablespoonful mayonnaise or tartare sauce, i hard- boiled egg, parsley. Beard the oysters, cut them into quarters, and blanch in their own liquor without allowing them to boil. Heat up the cream, vinegar, and butter, add the mustard, stir until quite hot, then add the egg-yolks, and stir and cook gently, until the liaison is formed. Put in the oysters, heat again, and set on the side to get cool. Wash and trim the celery, shred the white portion and put in a bowl, season to taste with salt and cayenne, add a little of the dressing from the oysters and the mayonnaise or tartare sauce, then mix in the oysters, etc., mingle gently the whole, and dish up in a salad bowl. Pile up high, sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, and garnish tastefully with slices of hard-boiled egg. Salade Mignonne. 2 medium-sized potatoes boiled in their jackets, i head celer\', 3- pint preserved small button mushrooms (those preserved in white vinegar are best adapted), pint cooked green peas, pint pickled button onions, 2 small cabbage lettuces, a few sprigs of chry^santhemum bloom and blos- soms (shredded very finely), about a gill of stiff mayonnaise sauce, salt and pepper. Peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized small dice, wash the celery, and cut the white part into fine shreds, pare the stalks from the mushrooms (champignons) and cut them in halves, leaving out a few for garnish ; halve the pickled onions, trim and wash the lettuces, reserve the hearts for garnish, and tear the remainder into small pieces, put these, together with the potatoes, celery, onions, mushrooms, and green peas, in a basin, season with salt and pepper according to taste, and mix with sufficient mayonnaise sauce to flavour the salad. Dress neatly in a salad bowl, pile up high or YY7or> THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. in the form of a pyramid, pour over a little mayonnaise dressing, so as to thinly cover the surface, garnish with the lettuce hearts, sprinkle over with shredded chrysanthemum, and serve. Salade Mikado. Prepare the required number of cucumber cups cut out by means of a lluting-knife ; they must be made as thinly as possible. Cut three to four young cooked carrots into julienne strips, and a similar quantity of peeled ripe tomatoes, also about one-third of th« quantity of cucumber cut into fine strips. Season all carefully with salt, pepper, and tomato mayonnaise, then hll the prepared cucumber cups with this. Garnish to taste and dish up. Salade Mirette. This salad consists of very young lettuce-leaves, the heart of young celery cut into shreds, and hard-boiled white of egg. The whole is seasoned with mayonnaise, and when dressed covered with hard-boiled yolks of eggs rubbed through a coarse sieve. Salade a la Monte-Carlo. 4 ripe, firm tomatoes, 2 truffles, pint cooked asparagus points, 6 small artichoke bottoms (cooked), 2 lettuces, mayonnaise dressing, Krona pepper. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, and cut them into slices, cut the truffles into thin slices, and the artichoke bottoms into shreds. Wash and trim the lettuces, mix all the ingredients together in a basin, season with pepper and salt and a little oil and vinegar. Dress the whole in pyramidal form on a deep dish or shallow salad bowl, garnish round the base with groups of asparagus points. Pour a little mayonnaise sauce, seasoned with krona pepper over the whole, and serve a boat of this dressing with the salad. Salade Monseigneur. I cucumber, i head white celery or endive, i apple, 2 truffles, i pimiento, 6 shelled walnuts, barb or capucine salad, vinaigrette, mayonnaise, cream, and seasoning. Peel the cucumber thinly, and cut it into eight or ten even-sized portions ; peel each in spiral fashion, being careful not to break the slices, the centre portion to be omitted. Shape each to its original size, and place in a pie-dish with a little vinaigrette. Cut the celery or endive and barb salad, after being trimmed and cleaned, into very small shreds, peel the apple and skin the walnuts, and cut these, with the truffles and pimiento, into hue strips. Season all carefully with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, and just enough mayonnaise and whipped cream to bind. Range the curled-up pieces of cucumber round the edge of a deep dish to form a border, put the prepared salad in the centre in pyramidal form. Besprinkle the salad with a little finely chopped chives, and place a small round of pimiento on top of each cucumber, then serve. Salade Murger (Calfs Head Salad). This is composed of calf’s head or calfs feet, boiled in stock, and cut into small shreds when cold. Mix this with small salad or shredded lettuce. Then season with a dressing made with oil, vinegar, salt,SJLADES—SA LADS. 707 pepper, mustard, and finely chopped parsley, other herbs, and shallots. Dish np tastefully. This is an excellent way of using up cooked calf’s feet or calf’s head. Salade Nantoise {Crab and Lettuce Salad). 2 cabbage lettuces, i gill asparagus tips (cooked), i cooked crab, i hard- boiled egg, 2 oz. smoked salmon, vinaigrette dressing and seasoning, parsley and chives. ,Trim and wash the lettuces, divide the leaves into small pieces, drain them well, and mix with the asparagus tips. Remove the meat from the crab, shred it finely and put it with the above. Cut the egg into slices, remove the yolks, and mix the latter with the vinaigrette. Season the salad with salt and pepper, and mix carefully with the vinaigrette, arrange it neatly in a salad bowl. Garnish with rings of hard-boiled white of eggs and smoked salmon cut into fine shreds, sprinkle with chopped parsley and chives, and serve. Salade aux QEufs {Egg Salad). 6 hard-boiled eggs, gill cream, I- gill mayonnaise sauce, chopped parsley, beetroot, red chillies and capers, salt and pepper, i lettuce, toasted bread. Shell the eggs, and cut them across into slices, tvhip the cream till stiff, add to it the mayonnaise and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Wash and trim the lettuce, place a roitnd of toasted bread in a salad bowl, dress on this a layer of lettuce-leaves, add a layer of mayonnaise, then a layer of slices of eggs, and so on until the eggs and lettuce are used up. Season each layer to taste. Pile up high, sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Garnish tastefully with slices of beetroot, capers, and red chillies, and serve. Salade d’CEufs en supreme. Slice lengthways six hard-boiled eggs, cut into slices foiir good truffles previously cooked in sherry. Stamp out some small rounds from a slice of cooked tongue. Put the three ingredients into a bowl with six small cooked new potatoes cut into slices. Beat up the yolks of three of the eggs with a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little tarragon mustard. Moisten with a little vinegar, and add gradually three tablespoonfuls of oil. Finally add to the salad a little tarragon, chervil, and chives, all finely chopped. Arrange neatly in a salad bowl, and decorate with small lettuce hearts and slices of beetroot. Salade Opera. Cut four-six slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue into fine julienne strips, also two-three truffles, and mix with an equal quantity of small green asparagus. Arrange this neatly in a salad bowl in the form of a border. Put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise in the centre, and place in quarters of lettuce hearts, and slices of hard-boiled egg or beetroot. Prepare a vinaigrette composed of olive oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, finely chopped gherkins, and herbs, pour this over the salad, and serve.7o8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Salade panachee en Surprise. Cook separately in salted water pint of green peas, the same quantity of French beans and flageolets. When done, drain them carefully, and cut the beans into half-inch pieces. Mix well in a salad bowl, and season with vinaigrette composed of three parts of oil, one of vinegar, a little French mustard, and chopped gherkins. Place a small round of toasted bread, previously rubbed with the cut side of a clove of garlic, in a deep round dish. Upon this dress the salad neatly (dome-shaped). Garnish with small cucumber shapes filled with seasoned macMoine, rings of hard-boiled white of egg, and beetroot or pimientos, and crown with a heart of lettuce or a few sprigs of endive, and serve. Note.—To make a moulded salad, the materials should be mixed with a little aspic and set in a dome or bombe mould, coated with aspic and French beans, closely lined against the sides, and then placed on the ice for about an hour. Salade de Perdreau a la Carpentras. I cold roast partridge, 2 lettuces, i head celery, mayonnaise dressing, I hard-boiled egg, i truffle, 2 tablespoonfuls vinaigrette, 8 stoned French olives, I tablespoonful capers, i gherkin, pepper and salt. Cut the partridge into neat joints, remove the skin and most of the bones, put in a dish, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinaigrette, and keep in a cool place for about an hour or more. Wash the lettuce and celery, remove the green leaves, shred the white portions, and season a little. Dress the lettuce, celery, and partridge in alternate layers, in the shape of a dome or pyramid, in a salad bowl, mask with stiff mayonnaise, decorate the surface with fancifully-cut slices and strips of gherkins and truffles. Sur- round with a garnish of quartered hard-boiled eggs, French olives, and capers, and serve. Salade de Pols et Haricots Verts {Green Pea and Bean Salad). For this salad use freshly-cooked or preserved peas and French beans. If the former be used, boil them in slightly salted water containing a small piece of soda, or better still a pinch of saleratus, to preserve the green colour. The peas and beans must, of course, be cooked separately. When done, drain on a sieve and let them cool. Cut the beans into pieces of about an inch long. Mix beans and peas together, add the necessary salad dressing, cut a clove of garlic in two, and rub the inside of a salad bowl with the cut side. This will give the salad a much appreciated and not too pronounced flavour. Arrange the prepared salad neatly in the bowl, and garnish with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, rounds of sliced beetroot, and parsley. If the flavour of onion is liked, one or two finely chopped shallots may be mixed with this salad. Salade des Pommes de Terre {Potato Salad). ij lb. small firm potatoes, boiled in the skins, lb. lean bacon, small onion, salt, pepper, vinegar to taste, i tablespoonful mayonnaise, parsley. Peel the potatoes, and slice them while hot, cut the bacon into709 SALADESSALADS. dice, fry brown in a frying-pan, drain, and pnt it in a basin \\ith the potatoes and the onion hnely chopped. Season with salt and pepper, mix the mayonnaise sauce with abor:t two tablespoonfnls of French wine vinegar, and pour this over the potatoes. Mingle the whole carefully, so as not to break the potato slices. Dish up in a salad bowl. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley, and serve. Salade a la Rachel. I head celery, 2 truffles, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 French gherkins, t gill mayonnaise sauce, a few slices of cooked beetroot, salt, pepper. Wash the celery, cut all the white part into very hue julienne strips, slice the truffles, and cut them into shreds likewise. Mix both together and season with pepper and salt, dress with mayon- naise sauce, and put in the centre of a glass bowl or china salad dish. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and arrange into a border round the celery and truffle salad, decorate prettily with hnely shredded gherkins and beetroot cooked and pickled. Instead of ordinary eggs, plovers’ or pheasants’ eggs may be used for a change. Salade a la Rejane. Peel and blanch in water well flavoured with lemon-juice 2T0Z. small fresh button mushrooms, drain, and let cool, then cut into fine julienne strips. Cut in a similar manner three truffles, two cepes (preserved in oil), and four ar- tichoke bottoms. Mix all together, and season with salt, pepper, oil, lemon and orange- juice, and French vinegar. Have ready six - eight basket shapes of navel oranges, all the white pith^be- ing well removed, keep them on ice till required, then fill them w i t hi the above salad,! coat the surface carefully with a thin layer of stiff mayonnaise. Decorate with rounds of stoned Spanish olives, with uDittle chopped truffle in the centre of each slice. Dish up on an ice socle or plain, and serve. Salade a la Reyniere. Wash and drain two nice French lettuces, tear into small pieces, toast a slice of bread about one-third of an inch thick, dip it in salad oil, put it in a salad bowl, dress the lettuce on this with alter-THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 710 nate layers of cooked French beans, garnish with cooked beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil, so as to form a nice design ; season with pepper, salt, oil, and chilli vinegar just before sending to table. Salade a la Riisse {Russian Salad). This consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, and gherkins, cut in small squares or cubes, capers, grated horse-radish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with mayonnaise aspic in a cylindrical-shaped mould. Set it in a deco- rated border of aspic jelly filled with above mixture, and nicely seasoned fresh caviare, Salade Russe (Maigre) {Russian Salad). li pint mayonnaise, i gill cooked green peas, li cauliflower, 3 new potatoes, 2 tomatoes, i truffle, i gill mixed vegetables (carrot, turnip, and French Ijeans), 2 gherkins, and garnishing. Cook separately in slightly salted water containing a little fresh Imtter the various vegetables, previously prepared, the carrot, turnip, cut into dice or stars (the mixed vegetables may be used preserved), the cauliflower divided into sprigs or buds. Cook the potatoes, when cold cut into neat short strips. Peel the tomatoes and slice them. When the vegetables are cooked, drain them well, and put in layers in a salad bowl. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of castor sugar, arrange the whole of the ingredients, includ- ing the gherkins and truffles, also cut into fine shreds, in several distinct sections or layers. Cover each layer with mayonnaise sauce and arrange in pyramidal form. Smooth over the surface with mayonnaise. Decorate according to fancy with various small groups of shredded smoked salmon, hard-boiled white of egg cut into quarter-inch dice, chopped or shredded beetroot, stoned or stuffed olives, anchovy fillets, capers or truffles. Salade a la Saint Jacques {Si. James’s Salad). Cook six ounces of rice in well-seasoned white stock till tender, when cold, add to it two finely chopped truffles, six preserved mushrooms cut into dice or shreds, and two finely chopped shallots. Season with mayonnaise, and arrange neatly in a salad dish. Sprinkle over with grated parmesan cheese, and garnish with olives, slices of lemon, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Salade de Sardines a I’Espagnole {Spanish Sardine Salad). Remove the skin and bones from twelve to sixteen sardines, cut them into short pieces, and mix in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of capers. Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and mix with some finely shredded lettuces. Arrange this in a salad bowl, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives filled with anchovy butter, i Salade quatre Saisons {Four Seasons Salad). '' Prepare a salad in four parts, consisting of {a) thinly-sliced radishes, {h) shredded lettuces, (c) thinly-sliced cucumber, {d) sliced tomatoes. Season each appropriately and in moderation. Rub;ii S'A LA DES—SA LADS. the bottom of a shallow salad bowl with a cut clove of garlic, and in it arrange neatly the-four kinds of salad materials. Force a conspicuous border of stiff mayonnaise round the dish and between SALADE QUATRE SAISONS. the sections of salad ; sprinkle each section with very finely chopped parsley and chives, sprinkle over also a little best Provence oil and vinegar, just sufficient to season. The salad is then ready to serve. Salade Suedoise [Swedish Salad). Slice thinly four ounces each of cooked beef (boiled), beetroot, gherkins, and some apples. To this add six boned anchovies, cut into small pieces, and one tablespoonful of capers, season with oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar. When mixed, add a hard-boiled egg cut into slices, dish up, and garnish with six bearded oysters, six anchovy hllets, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Salade de Tomates [Tomato Salad). 6 firm, even-sized tomatoes, i tablespoonful vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, i teaspoonful mixed mustard (English), i teaspoonful chopped chives or parsley, pepper and salt. Wipe the tomatoes, scald them in boiling water for one minute, drain on a cloth, carefully remove the stems and skin, and let cool. Cut them into thin slices, and place in a salad bowl. Put two saltspoonfuls of salt in a basin, together with a saltspoonful of pepper, the previously mixed mustard, pour in the vinegar and oil, and mix thoroughly with a wooden salad spoon. Just before serving the salad add the chopped chives or parsley to the dressing, and pour it over the tomatoes. Salade a la Villeroi. Cut into coarse shreds or thin slices one small cucumber (pre- viously pickled), one small cooked beetroot, one lettuce, three cooked potatoes, and four fresh tomatoes, rub one hard-boiled yolk of egg through a sieve into a salad bowl, add three tablespoonfuls of valentine sauce, one small teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful712 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. tomato puree, a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Mix well, and work in gradually two table- spoonfuls of salad oil, one of French wine vinegar, and a dessert- spoonful of anchovy essence, add the prepared vegetables, and mix carefully. Dish up in a clean salad bowl in a pyramidal form, place the heart of a nice French lettuce in the centre, ornament with chopped hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil and parsley, and a few French capers, Salade de Volaille {Chicken Salad). I boiled chicken, 2 heads lettuce, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i gill mayonnaise, 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 12 stoned olives, i tablespoonful capers, 2 stalks white celery, salt and pepper. Bone the chicken, cut up into neat small slices. Wash the lettuce, wipe the leaves. Wash the celery, and cut into small pieces. Put chicken, lettuce, and the celery in a basin, season with pepper and salt and vinegar, transfer into a salad bowl, pile up in the centre, garnish with alternate groups of lettuce-leaves, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stoned olives, and capers. Pour the mayonnaise dressing over the centre salad, decorate the top with hard-boiled yolk of egg, finely chopped, capers, or gherkins, etc., according to fancy and taste. Salade Wilhelmine. I small head white celery, -J- pint peeled walnuts, cucumber, i sour cooking apple, gill stiff mayonnaise, salt, white pepper, i tablespoonful double cream, and Krona pepper. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into small shreds or julienne strips, and drain on a sieve or in a salad basket. Cut the walnuts (previously shelled and peeled) into small pieces, peel the cucumber and the apple, core the latter and cut both into fine shreds. Mix these with the celery and walnuts, and season with salt and pepper. Add by degrees the mayonnaise and the cream, and mix thoroughly. Dress the salad in a pile on a vegetable dish or a small flat salad bowl, and besprinkle with Krona pepper. Garnish with a few sprigs of watercress or small radishes. Serve with roast game or poultry. Salade de Mandarines {Mandarin Orange Salad). Peel a dozen mandarins, and quarter them, taking out the pips. Put them into a bowl with some castor sugar and cognac brandy. Let them steep in this for about an hour, and serve in a salad bowl or fruit-dish. In the latter case they should be decorated with candied or glace cherries. Mayonnaise de Celeri et Noix {Walnut and Celery Mayonnaise). I head white celery, ^ pint peeled walnuts, i gill stiff mayonnaise, salt and pepper, i tablespoonfiil double cream. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into julienne strips, and drain on a sieve or in a salad basket. Shell, peel, and cut the walnuts into small pieces, mix celery and walnuts, and season with salt and pepper. Add by degrees the mayonnaise and the cream. Dress713 SA LADES—SA LA DS. in a pile on a vegetable dish or a small liat salad bowl. Garnish with a few sprigs of watercress or small radishes, and serve with roast poultry or game. Tomates a la Remoulade. Choose eight or nine small, ripe, firm, and even-sized tomatoes, steep them in hot water for a few seconds, and remove their skins. With a sharp knife cut a little off the top of each tomato, and care- fully scoop out a portion of the interior. Place them on a sieve to drain. Mix a gill of vegetable macedoine (carrot, turnip, and French beans, all cut very small, peas, etc.) with half a gill of tartare sauce and a similar quantity of liquid aspic. Season with salt and pepper, and stir carefully over the ice until the mixture begins to set. Fill the prepared tomatoes with this, put a small round slice of pimiento on top of each. Place the tomatoes on the ice. Whisk half a gill of cream, and incorporate a tablespoonful of spinach puree, a little remoulade sauce and d gill dissolved aspic, season with paprika and salt. Mask the stuffed tomatoes carefully with the prepared cream, and decorate them tastefully with the re- mainder of cream by means of a forcing bag or cornet. Dish up, garnish with small cress salad, and serve. French Salad Dressing. Mix in a basin one teaspoonful of French mustard, half teaspoon- ful of salt, one saltspoonful white pepper ; add one tablespoonful of French wine vinegar (vinaigre d’Orleans), and about three table- spoonfuls best salad oil (huile de Provence), beat up with a wooden fork or wooden spoon, lastly add a heaped-up teaspoonful of finely-minced olives or else parsley, the former is, however, much more satisfactory. Pour this over the prepared lettuce or other salad. The above quantity is sufficient for a salad for four or five persons. Plain Salad Mixture. Use three parts of oil to one of vinegar. Dissolve the salt required for seasoning in a little vinegar, stir in the oil with a wooden spoon or fork, add a little black pepper, and pour over the salad. More vinegar may be added if liked, this being a matter of taste. Salad Dressing without Oil. As some people have an objection to oil, the following dressing may be found useful. To a gill of cream, add half a gill of light vinegar (French wine). Cream an ounce of butter with three egg-yolks, add a teaspoonful of made mustard, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and stir the cream and vinegar in gradually. Use thus, or, if preferred, it can be stirred over a slow fire till it thickens, like cream. The latter is a difficult process, as the cream is apt to curdle. Salade a I’Americaine {American Salad).—Finely shredded white leaves of cow cabbage, mixed with pickled chilli pods and sliced tomatoes, seasoned with mayonnaise sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 714 Salade a la Bagration.—Finely shredded white celery, artichoke bottoms cut into small dice, and cooked chicken fillets and macaroni, cut very small, blended with tomato flavoured mayonnaise ; decorated with hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, ox-tongue and truffles, and finely chopped pai'sley. — de Bananes [Banana Salad).—Sliced peeled bananas, dressed with salt, pepper, sugar, and white wine, or with mayonnaise. — a la Beaucaire.—Finely cut strips of white celery, russet apples, endive, preserved mushrooms, cold potatoes and ham blended with mayonnaise flavoured with tarragon and chervil, then dressed in salad bowl with a border of beetroot and cold potatoes. — a la Brissane.—Cooked French beans, raw tomatoes, peeled and cooked artichoke bottoms, all cut in julienne strips ; dressed with oil and vinegar. — a la Cazanova [Cazanova Salad).—Prepare some finely shredded celery, truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs ; season with mayon- naise sauce and finely chopped salad herbs and shallots. Dish up neatly in a salad bowl and serve. — a la Chasseur {Hunter’s Salad).—Cooked chicken fillets, cold potatoes, tomatoes, celery, beetroot, and sour apples, all cut in thick julienne strips ; dressed with tartare sauce. — de Chou-rouge [Red Cabbage Salad).—This salad is composed of pickled red cabbage, and is garnished with hard-boiled white of egg, etc. — Cressonniere.—A nicely-seasoned potato salad, mixed with small slices' of lobster, watercress, and hard-boiled eggs (chopped), also finely chopped parsley. — Danicheff.—Blanched celery knobs, cold potatoes, artichoke bottoms and mushrooms, cut in thin slices, seasoned with mayonnaise and mixed with crayfish-tails, garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs and truffles. — Danoise [Danish Salad).—Sliced peeled tomatoes, cooked kidney beans, French beans, green peas, pickled button onions ; dressed with mayonnaise sauce. — Demi-Deuil.—This consists of equal quantities of cold potatoes and truffles, cut in julienne strips, carefully blended in layers with whipped cream flavoured with mustard. — a la Dumas.—Dice shapes of cooked potatoes, beetroot, gherkins or pickled cucumbers, and sliced tomatoes, dressed with a mixtui'e of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt ; garnished with chopped whites of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroot, chives, and white lettuce-leaves. — Elva.—Beetroot salad, garnished with Elva plums, stoned, and stuffed with rather firm tartare sauce. — d’Estrees.—Finely cut strips of white celery and truffles in equal proportions, seasoned with mayonnaise, flavoured with mustard and cayenne. ■— d’Ete [Summer Salad).—This is a kind of lettuce salad, a mixture of lettuce and cucumber, cut into thin slices, seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with small radishes.SA LA DESS A LA DS. 71S Salade Eva.—Artichoke bottoms cut in dice, cooked asparagus points, sliced mushrooms, and ham cut in strips ; dressed with remoulade sauce. — a la Flamande {Flemish Salad).—This consists of a mixture of fillets of herrings, chopped apples, slices of beetroot, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, and sprigs of cooked cold cauliflow^er, seasoned with ordinary salad dressing or mayonnaise. - Franpillon.—Olive-shaped cooked potatoes, bearded and blanched oysters or mussels, and slices of truffles, seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. — Gallati.—Blanched mushrooms, diced and tossed in butter, mixed while hot with cooked asparagus tips, French dressing, and a little French mustard. — Georgette.—Thinly peeled cucumber and pickled beetroot, cut into fine strips, mixed with boiled rice, seasoned with mayonnaise, and filled in hearts of young artichokes ; garnished with truffles. — a la Grimod.—Consists of cabbage lettuce, cooked French beans, beetroot, and slices of cold game ranged on slices of toasted bread, previously dipped in sweet oil; garnished with groups of whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot or chervil ; seasoned with plain salad dressing. — Henriette.—Sprigs of cold cooked cauliflower, fine shreds of cooked carrots, turnips, French beans, and truffles, seasoned with French dressing. — ■ d’Hiver {Winter Salad).—Endive, celery, beetroot, horse-radish, and boiled potatoes ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. ■ - Hollandaise {Dutch Salad).—This consists of smoked lax or salmon, and cold potatoes, both cut into dice shapes, mixed with finely chopped chives or spring onions, oil, lemon-juice, and salt and pepper ; garnished with caviare. — a ITtalienne {Italian Salad).—Cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, cut out in half-inch-thick round slices, ranged in pyra- midal form in a salad bowl, with cooked Brussels sprouts, French beans and sprigs of cauliflower ; dressed with ravigote sauce. — Jockey Club.—Finely cut strips of celery, cold potatoes, cooked French beans, preserved mushrooms, gherkins, and lettuce hearts, dressed with mayonnaise ; garnished with anchovy fillets and hard-boiled eggs- — a la Judic.—Prepared with various kinds of smoked meats or sausages (shredded), cooked vegetables, tunnyfish, anchovies, olives, and capers ; seasoned with tartare sauce. — au petit Lard {Bacon Salad).—Green salad dressed in usual way, with streaky bacon cut in dice, previously fried, and seasoned with vinegar, etc., then poured over the salad. — de Legumes a la Lyonnaise.—Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mixed with thin slices of Lyons sausage cut in strips, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots ; dressed with cold ravigote sauce. — Mariette.—Piccalilli or mi.xed pickles, raw cucumber, and not over- ripe pears, cut in fine strips, and dressed with mayonnaise.7i6 the new century COOKERY BOOK. Salade a la Miliken.—Salad composed of Spanish pimientos and truffles, cut in dice shapes, and cold boiled rice ; seasoned with mayonnaise ; dressed on lettuce-leaves. — a la Monte-Cristo.—This is composed of equal quantities of lobster, truffles, cold potatoes, and hard-boiled eggs, all cut into dice or small cubes ; arranged in a salad bowl with a lettuce heart in centre, sprinkled with chopped tarragon, and dressed with mustard flavoured mayonnaise. — a la Moscovite.—This is made similar to Russian salad (see “ Salade Russe”), only in smaller moulds, and is garnished with small tartlet crusts tilled with caviare. — Napolitaine {Neapolitan Salad).—Thin slices of Bologna sausage and sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately (crown shape) ; centre filled with shredded celery, lettuce, and beetroot ; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — NiQoise.—Cooked French beans, cut into short pieces, also cold pota- toes cut into dice ; mixed with peeled tomatoes cut into sections; garnished - with capers, stoned olives, and anchovy fillets ; seasoned with vinaigrette. — Pauvre Homme.—Potato salad mixed with cooked haricot beans and buds of cooked cauliflower ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, etc., and chopped parsley. — a la Paysanne {Farmhouse Salad).—Consists of sliced cooked red cabbage (pickled), cold potatoes, and celery root, all cut in thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing. — a la Polonaise {Polish Salad).—This is prepared with lettuce, endive, celery, sliced potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of an- chovies ; seasoned with the usual salad dressing and garnished with minced cooked ham and hard-boiled eggs. — a la Heine {(Jueen Salad).—White celery stalks, hard-boiled whites of eggs, both cut into fine shreds, seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of Brunswick sausage and yolks of hard-boiled eggs, dropped or rubbed through a sieve. — Sahara.—This is composed of dice-shaped cold potatoes, cold cooked celery root or celeriac, truffles, and bananas ; seasoned with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley and chervil. — a la Sotteville.—Cos or Romaine lettuce salad, seasoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, cream, and chopped parsley. — de Volaille {Chicken Salad).—Make a border of lettuce hearts and slices of hard-boiled egg in salad bowl, fill centre with chicken fillets (cooked), cut thinly, also lettuce-leaves, and dress with mayonnaise. — Waldorf.—Equal proportions of russet apples and celery knobs, or white celery heart, cut into dice, and freshly-peeled walnut kernels, cut thinly ; dressed with mayonnaise. — Windsor.—Cut into julienne strips white celery, truffles, cooked chicken breast, cooked tongue, and mushrooms, blend these with chopped piccalilli, and mayonnaise fiavoured with Worcester sauce ; dish up with lettuce heart in centre of bowl.717 SA LA DESS A LADS. Salade d’Ananas [Pineapple Salad). Cut half a peeled ripe pineapple into fine shreds (remove the cores before shredding). Mix this with the white part of a small head of celery, cut into small shreds. Place it on the ice till wanted. A few minutes before serving mix it with sufficient mayonnaise sauce to moisten and season the salad. Dress neatly on a deep glass dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve it ice-cold. Salade d’Ananas a I’lndienne [See page 235). Salade de Cerises [Cherry Salad). I lb. sour cooking cherries (fresh or preserved), i tablespoonful salad oil. I teaspooiiful lemon-juice, a few drops tarragon vinegar, i tablespoonful cognac or tablespoonful kirschwasser, a few tarragon and chervil leaves, chopped finely, a teaspoonful castor sugar. If fresh cherries are used, remove the stalks and stones, crack the latter and take out the kernels, put them with the cherries in a bowl. Mix the remainder of the ingredients above given in a small basin, and mingle with the cherries. Serve in a small salad dish or glass side dishes. This makes an excellent accompaniment to roast game or duck. Salade de Fruits [Fruit Salad). This delicious and ever-welcome dish is made by slicing various kinds of fruit, fresh or preserved, such as peaches, apricots, bananas, pineapple, oranges, etc. Arrange the fruit in layers in a salad bowl or deep glass dish, sprinkle each layer of fruit with castor- sugar, and pour over quarter to half a pint of sherry or Madeira, according to the quantity of fruit used, also a small quantity of plain syrup. Place the bowl on the ice for about two hours. J ust before serving add a small glass of liqueur, such as kirschwasser, cura9oa, Benedictine or Chartreuse. This is a most refreshing dish, suitable at all seasons of the year, but more especially for hot summer days. Banana and Walnut Salad. Peel and cut into slices 4-6 ripe but firm bananas, place them in a basin and mix carefully with half a pint of peeled walnut kernels divided into small pieces, season with salt and pepper to taste, and besprinkle with the juice of half a lemon. Range this neatly in a salad-bowl, surrounded by a neat border of water- cress, previously washed, picked, and drained. In the centre of the salad pile 1-2 large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise and serve. Salade d’Oranges [Orange Salad). 4 oranges, i lemon, i tablespoonful sweet salad oil (huile de Provence), I tablespoonful brandy, teaspoonful castor sugar, teaspoonful finely chopped tarragon and chervil, a pinch of cayenne. Remove the peel and pith from the oranges, divide the fruit into the natural divisions, removing at the same time all the skin and pips. Put the fruit in a salad bowl, add a few thin slices of lemon, free from skin and pips, pour over the oil and brandy, season with sugar and cayenne. Add the chopped herbs. Mix thoroughly but carefully, and pile up neatly on a dish.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXXII. RECHERCHE BALL SUPPER AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES. Note.—These dishes having only recently been introduced at the special Demonstrations given by me at the National Training School of Cookery, at the time when this book was being printed. The Recipes could not be classified in the sections to which they belong, hence I decided to devote a separate chapter to this small collection of selected dishes. Melon a ITmperiale. Procure a fine rock melon (not over ripe), cut off the top portion, and scoop out the interior seedy part. Place the melon in a pan, surrounded with ice, and put in it 2-3 glasses of tawny port wine. Keep the melon thus for about three hours. Just before serving pour out the liquid, and fill it with stiffly whipped cream, seasoned with a little salt and a liberal dose of paprika. Dish up, replace the top portion of the melon, and keep on ice till required to be served. Serve the melon on a border of plain ice, coloured with a little spinach greening or else put a few sprigs of asparagus fern in the water before freezing the border. Cornets de York a la Gelee. Cut as thinly as possible the required number of slices of York ham (rather under-cooked), then stamp out with a sharp paste cutter in even-sized rounds. Twist each on a cornet tin or on a wooden pastry roll; fasten the end by means of a little liquefied meat glaze, stiffened with a small quantity of gelatine. When sufficiently set or fixed, gently remove the cornets or roll shapes of ham from the tins or wood. Fill with finely chopped aspic mixed with chopped lean ham and pistachio kernels. Glaze over with a little semi-liquid aspic, and dish up on a flat dish round a suitably shaped vegetable macedoine timbale ; garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Karloys d’Astrachan [Caviare Rolls). Roll out thinly some puff paste, and cut it into strips about half an inch wide. Butter the required number of cannelon sticks and proceed to roll or wind the paste ribbons round each stick. See that in winding the paste slightly overlaps each turn. Place them on a baking-sheet and brush over with egg-yolk, then bake to a nice golden colour. Remove the sticks whilst hot, and let the pastry rolls cool. Fill them with Astrachan caviare and force a star of green herb butter at each end. Dish up neatly, and garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and slices of lemon. Keep on the ice till required for table.RECHERCHiL BALL AND THEATRE SURFER DISHES. 719 Petites Cremes de Poisson aux Olives [Small Fish Creams, with Olives). Pound in a mortal" h lb. cold salmon free from skin and bones, add to it I gill encumber puree, i gill reduced bechamel sauce, and season with salt and pepper. When well mixed and smooth, rub the mixture through a fine sieve ; put it in a basin and mix with I gill well-reduced aspic, and ^ gill of cream, also about ^ a gill of chopped lobster. Line a number of small savarin moulds with aspic, besprinkle with chopped lobster coral and truffies (mixed), when set, fill up the moulds with the above mixture and put them on the ice. Turn out the shapes on to a cold dish ; in the centre of each place a large Spanish olive, stoned, and stuffed with lobster puree seasoned with a little mayonnaise, insert a sprig of parsley in each, and serve. Supreme de Volaille, Velours. I large plump Surrey fowl, 2 oz. butter, gill stock, i- gill cream, gill bechamel sauce, seasouing, 2 whites of egg, i-J- gill white chaud-froid sauce, truffles and pimiento for decoration, meat glaze, 8 china kite-shaped souffle cases. Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, etc., flatten them, season, and fry lightly in butter in a saute-pan. Add the stock, cover with a buttered paper, and poach the fillets in the oven for about ten minutes. Take up, drain and press the fillets. \\dth the remainder of the fowl prepare a light souffle farce, using the cream, bechamel sauce, and whites of egg (previously whisked) and seasoning. Put this into a buttered plain mould (flat shape) and cook in bain-marie in the oven. When done nnmould and let cool. Cut the chicken fillets to the shape of the china cases, and cut the chicken souffle in similar style and sandwich them together with a little dissolved meat glaze. Mask each carefully with white chaud- froid sauce and decorate afterwards with’^thinly cut fanciful slices of truffle and pimiento leaves. Place a little small cress or otherTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 720 salad previously seasoned in each of the cases ; dress the prepared fillets, previously glazed with a thin coating of aspic, upon this. Dish up, and serve. Filets de Sole a la Diane. 2 small soles, oz. butter, white wine, prawn puree, white chaud-froid sauce (made from veloutee sauce), i truffle or pimiento, i tablespoonful fresh caviare, i8 prawns, nouille paste, aspic, seasoning, cold fish souffle border, vegetable macedoine salad. Prepare a nouille paste made with 6 oz. flour, i oz. butter, i egg- yolk, salt, and a little milk. Knead it well and roll out thinly, then stamp out a number of pieces, and line with these the required number of heart-shaped moulds. Fill them with rice, and bake them in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Skin and fillet the soles, poach them' in the oven in a well- buttered saute-pan with a little white wine, mushroom liquor, lemon- juice, and seasoning. Take them up, let cool, then trim each fillet to the size of the heart-shaped paste crusts. Mix a puree made of the prawns with the caviare, and spread the bottom of each paste crust with it, upon this place a fillet of sole, previously coated with chaud-froid veloutee sauce. Decorate each fillet with a ring of pimiento with a pea-shaped truffle. Prepare and cook, i.e. poach, a border of fish souffle (see page 294), when cold mask it with white chaud-froid sauce and coat with aspic jelly. Place this on a cold dish, fill the centre with a vegetable macedoine salad ; dress the fillets of sole round it, as shown in the illustration, surmount with four prawns, and serve. Cremes de Jambon et Pols {Ham and Peas Creams). Line the required number of moulds with a thin layer of aspic, and decorate each with a row of cooked green peas and fancifullyRECHERCHIi BALL AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES. 721 cut slices of truffle. Mix some mayonuaise sauce with enough green pea puree to give it a greenish tint, and incorporate sufficient aspic to set when cold. Mask the inside of the moulds with this twice. Chop or shred finely f lb. lean cooked ham, and mix with f pint Mask the inside of six or more small timbale moulds with aspic jelly, cut the eggs into slices of even thickness. i\Iix the anchov}’ zz CREMES DE JAMBON EX POIS. of cooked green peas, and i gill of seasoned tomato as}uc cream and a little mayonnaise. Nearly till the moulds with this, shake them well, so as to set the mixture, then lill uj) with mayonnaise and green pea cream, as used for masking the mould. Keep them on the ice to set, then turn out on to an entree dish, and serve. , Timbales d’CEufs a I’Anchois {Egg Timbales with Anchovies). S hard-boiled eggs, f pint aspic jelly (see page 537), 6 anchovies iilleted, i oz. anchovy paste, i teaspoonful Lemco or meat glaze, a few sprigs of chervil.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 722 paste with the meat glaze and a little aspic, just enough to spread, then spread a little of this mixture on both sides of each of the slices of egg. Put a small spray of chervil in each timbale, upon this put a slice of egg, then a layer of aspic, next an anchovy hllet, and continue thus till the timbales are hlled ; the last layer should be of aspic. Put the moulds on the ice to set. To serve, turn them out on to a cold dish. Garnish with little sprigs of endive or finely shredded lettuce, and serve. Timbales d’CEufs a la Cardinal. 4 hard-boiled eggs, large lobster with spawn, i oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, i gill mayonnaise, pint aspic (p. 537), tomato cream, anchovy essence. Line eight small timbale moulds with aspic jelly ; when set pour a thin layer of tomato cream stiffened with aspic in the bottom of each mould. Cut the eggs into |^-inch thick slices, remove the yolks and range the whites (ring shapes) in the timbale moulds, with alternate layers of aspic. Pound the lobster in a mortar, heat up the spawn with the butter, add to the lobster, and let cool a little. When finely pounded rub through a sieve, add the mayonnaise, flavour with a little anchovy essence, and enough aspic to stiffen the mixture when cold. Remove the aspic in the centre of each mould and fill the cavities with the prepared lobster mousse. Place on the ice to set, then turn out, range the timbales neatly on to a flat dish, garnish to taste and serve. Darioles de Cailles a la Rossini {Darioles of Quails, Rossini Style). Bone three quails, season them and stuff them with foie-gras and truffle, then braise them in the usual manner, and let them get cold. Remove the skin of each bird, cut them into neat, round slices. Mask a number of fluted dariole moulds with aspic, place a ring of truffleRECHERCHE BALL AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES. 7^3 in the bottom of each with half a glace cherry in the centre of each ring. Then hll the moulds with alternate layers of cjnail slices and aspic jelly, allowing each layer of aspic to set before the next is added. Allow them to set on the ice, then turn out the shapes and dish np. Garnish with small salad, and serve. Note.—It is essential that the aspic jelly used for this dish should be flavoured with essence of quail, obtained after braising the birds. Medallions de Poiilarde, Gaulolse. I large poularde or small capon, lb. fat pork, lb. lean veal, i French roll soaked in milk, 2 whites of eggs, -J- gill cream, salt, pepper and aromatic seasoning, i pint white stock, white chaud-froid sauce, a suitably-shaped or carved rice socle, truffles and aspic for garnishing, etc., i hatelet, small salad for decoration, 10-12 Gauloise timbales. Truss the poularde or capon as for boiling, remove the breast portion carefully, then wrap np the bird in a buttered paper, and boil in seasoned white stock till tender. Remove and let it get cold, then take off the paper and coat the sides and surface carefully with white chaud-froid sauce. Ornament the leg and wing portion with thin slices of truffles, and mask with aspic. Keep on the ice till wanted. Flatten the breast part of the bird, ancl cut into round medaillon shapes, poach them in a little butter and stock, press, and let cool. Pound the trimmings with the pork and veal, when fine add the soaked bread, white of egg and cream, season to taste and sieve. Spread over one side of the medaillons with this farce, and poach in stock, in a saute-pan covered with buttered paper ; when drained and cold, mask with white chaud-froid sauce, decorate each with thinly cut strips of truffle and coat with aspic. Arrange the prepared m^aillons neatly on the breast part of the bird, pre- viously placed on a socle on a suitably-shaped dish, and garnish the sides sparingly with tiny sprigs of small salad. Have ready the Gauloise Timbales, and place them in front or round the sides of the bird. Insert a previously prepared hatelet and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 724 Petites Darioles a la Gauloise. Line 10-12 small bouche moulds with a thin layer of aspic, then decorate each with thin strips of gherkins. Next mask with a layer of mayonnaise cream, and till np with a puree of green peas, mixed with a little chopped ham and seasoned with mayonnaise cream and aspic. Place them on the ice to set. When required for serving, unmould, and arrange on the dish as directed. Mousse de Caneton et Jambon {Cold Duck and Ham Mousse). I small braised duckling, J lb. lean cooked ham, \ gill bechamel sauce, i t gill aspic jelly (p. 537), 4 or 5 tablespoonfnls cream, i dessertspoonful meat glaze, krona or paprika pepper to season, i slice of tongue, green peas, hard-boiled white of egg, truffle for garnish. Mask a plain charlotte mould with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the bottom and sides tastefully with cooked green peas, and fanci- fully cut slices of tongue. When set, coat the inside with a layer of pink chaud-froid sauce, then place the mould on the ice. Remove the fillet and wing portion of the duckling, free from skin, then cut up the meat, also the ham, and pound in a mortar, add to it the white sauce, the meat glaze, and the cream, mix thoroughly and season to taste with salt, pepper and aromatic herbs and krona or paprika. Rub the pounded mixture through a line sieve and inco rporate about half a gill of liquefied aspic. Fill the prepared mould wit h this, set it on the ice for an hour or more, then turn out on to a col d dish. Garnish with chopped aspic and parsley, and serve. Filets de Volaille Chevaliere. 2 large chicken fillets (breast and wing portion of a large raw fowl), -J lb. lean ham, lb. ox-tongue, 2 whites of eggs (hard-boiled), 2 truffles, 6 walnut kernels, lemon mayonnaise (p. 153), i lettuce heart, chicken aspic, tarragon and chervil, seasoning.RECHERCHh BALL AND THEATRE SUPPER DISHES. 725 Flatten the chicken hllets and braise them white in rich chicken stock, when done press between two weighted boards. Cut six rounds of ham one and a half inches in diameter, and a similar quantity of ronncls from the chicken hllets. Mask them on both sides with well-seasoned chicken aspic, cut the white of egg into thin slices same size as the ham, and mask likewise with aspic. Line a plain liat mould with a thin layer of chicken aspic, and decorate the side with strips of tarragon leaves and dice-shaped slices of tongue. Pound the remainder of ham, free from fat, in a mortar, add to it a little mayonnaise, and rub through a sieve, season to taste and stir in a gill of previously whisked aspic. Fill the prepared mould with this and place it on the ice. Cut the remainder of tongue into fine shreds, also the walnuts, previously peeled, and the remainder of whites of egg. Mix all carefully with a little mayonnaise and enough aspic to bind ; season, and fill into a small sunk dariole mould, previously lined with aspic. W'hen set turn it out on to the dish containing the ham mousse. Range the chicken and ham rounds, surmounted by a slice of white of egg, round the base of the mousse, place a small star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre of each, put the lettuce heart on top of the dariole shapes, garnish with chervil and aspic, and serve. Croustades de Volaille a la Chambord {Cold). For the croustades line eight suitably-shaped zephyr cutlet or heart-shaped moulds with nouille paste, and bake them blind. Place the pastry crusts on a sieve to cool. Prepare a foie-gras puree, flavour, it with sherry and truffle essence and blend with a few roasted and finely chopped hazel nuts, and some dissolved aspic to bind, then line the inside of the paste crusts with it. Mask eight oval-shaped escalopes of cooked chicken fillets with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate each with tarragon leaves and pimiento strips to form a spray. Place these into the prepared croustades and coat them with a layer of nearly-set chicken aspic. Dish up neatly, and , serve. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Chartreuse. Skin and trim a breast of lamb, then marinade it for about three hours in a pan containing sliced onion, sliced carrot, thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, slices of peeled lemon, lemon-juice, and salt and pepper. Take up the breast, bone it, and braise it with a rich mirepoix and stock till quite tender, then press it under a weighted board. Pre- pare a puree composed of soubise, i.c. onion puree, bechamel sauce, finely chopped mushrooms, and cooked ham. Fill the cooked breast of lamb with this and press again, lightly this time. When cold, cut into neat heart or cutlet shapes, egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in deep clarified butter or lard. Drain and dish up in border form. Fill the centre of the dish with hot vegetable macedoine tossed in butter, surmounted by a sprig of cooked cauliflower. Serve with a boat of sauce Broglie, composed of Espagnole reduced with ham, Madere, and mushroom liquor.726 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Artichauts en Surprise. 12 small Jerusalem artichokes, i small terrine foie-gras, 6 mushrooms, i gill bechamel sauce, frying batter, seasoning, frying fat, parsley and lemon to garnish. Wash and scrape the artichokes, peel each to a neat round or oval, and cook in salted water till nearly tender, then drain and scoop out the interior of each. Pound the foie-gras, previously freed from fat, moisten with the white sauce, and season to taste ; then add the mushrooms finely chopped, and fill the artichokes with the puree thus obtained. Dip each into a light frying batter so as to completely cover or coat the artichokes, and fry them to a golden colour in deep hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, and garnish with thinly cut slices of lemon and fried parsley. Croutes a la Darvelle. 6 oz. tunny fish, 2 oz. potato puree, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 egg- yolks, J gill cream, white pepper and cayenne to taste, lo neatly cut anchovy fillets, lO oval-shaped fried bread croutes, a few walnut kernels and chopped pistachio nuts for garnish. Drain the tunny fish from its oil, cut it up small, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the potato puree and the grated cheese. Amalgamate the egg-yolks with the cream, and season to taste with paprika or krona pepper. Spread this mixture thickly over the previously prepared bread croutes, and shape each neatly. Place an anchovy fillet on top of each croute, bake in a moderate oven for about five minutes. Dish up, and place half a walnut kernel, peeled and dipped in glaze and besprinkled with pistachios and paprika, in the centre of each croute. Laitances de Hareng a la Lucullus. 8 soft roes of herrings, \ lemon, i oz. butter, J oz. flour, i gill milk, 2 eggs, I tablespoonful Lucullus puree, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Butter eight china souffle cases. Poach the soft roes in seasoned milk. Mix the Lucullus puree with the cream, and season with paprika or krona pepper. Put about a tablespoonful of this in each souffle case ; next put a herring-roe in each case. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir a little over the fire, then moisten with the milk and stir over the fire till it boils ; stir in two egg-yolks, season with salt and pepper, and lastly add the stiffly whipped white of an egg. Spread this mixture over the herring-roes contained in the souffle cases, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. Bouillon d’Asperges en tasses. Clean a small bundle of green asparagus, cut off the soft, i.e. green, portion, and cook this in chicken stock containing a blanched onion and a small bunch of freshly-picked parsley. When the asparagus is tender strain the broth through a fine hair sieve and press the asparagus gently. Re-heat the broth, skim, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Serve hot or cold in cups. If served hot, a liaison of arrow- root should be added. A fourniture of finely shredded tarragon, green mint leaves, and chervil should be added last of all.727 CHAPTER XXXIII. SWEET ENTREMETS. The Second Service terminates with the “ Roast,” or the Vegetable Entremets, when dishes of this class follow the roast or are sub- stituted for it. The three divisions of the Third Service are :— Sweets, Savouries, and Dessert. Some authorities class all Third Course dishes as Dessert, but it is more convenient to consider them under their respective headings. Without dwelling upon the fact that the cook’s skill and taste can be displayed to advantage by the delicate manner in which the sweets are prepared, it must be admitted that in an ordinary house- hold of moderate means it is economical to serve sweets with a meal, for when these are not provided a greater quantity of meat must be consumed to satisfy nature’s demands. Moreover, the majority of people require a certain amount of sugar and starch in their diet, and both of these are very largely represented in these dishes. Children always welcome ‘‘ sweets ” and puddings, and these are generally wholesome and nourishing ; young people should certainly not be deprived of this pleasure. Even the poorer classes will find it economical to provide a simple pudding, etc. When planning a dinner which contains one or more substantial dishes of meat, it must be borne in mind that the first principle regulating the ” sweets” course shoifid be that the dishes must be at once light and elegant. On the other hand, if the main portion of a meal is to be light, the sweets may be of a more substantial kind, though elegance of appearance is always to be aimed at. In a recherch’ meal the sweets should show the touch of a master- hand both as regards the quality and the artistic finish. Like the final touches of a picture, the sweet should convey to the palate what the completed picture does to the eye, a certain sense of pleasurable satisfaction. Any suggestion of solidity is out of place in the sweet course of a high-class repast. Sweets are divided into two groups. Hot Sweets and Cold Sweets. If several kinds of sweets are to be served at one meal, the order of service is that the Hot Sweets must precede the cold dishes. There are many plain sweets, especially milk puddings, which come under the heading of ” Invalid Dietary” because they are so simple that they cannot hurt even a delicate constitution. These plain puddings can be made of milk and rice, tapioca, florador, semolina, sago, cornflour, vermicelli, macaroni, flour, etc. If pro- perly prepared, they are palatable and nourishing, as well as inex-728 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. pensive. Unfortunately simple dishes often suffer at the hands of careless cooks, who are prone to regard them as unworthy of much attention. An intelligent, educated cook knows that careful treat- ment is quite as necessary in the simplest operation of cooking as in the most elaborate. This is a truth which must be grasped by all who wish to succeed. Hot Sweets may be further classified as follows :—puddings, boiled, steamed, and baked, comprising souffle puddings, fruit puddings, custards, caramels, savarins, fruit fritters, beignets, pancakes, omelets, souffles, fruit tarts, charlottes, etc. HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. (For Sweet Sauces suitable for Puddings, etc., see end of Sauce Chapter, p. 170.) Pouding a I’Ambassadeur. Prepare a savarin paste (p. 756), and three-parts fill a buttered charlotte mould. Bake it in a moderate oven and let cool. Cut the cake into slices, and spread each slice with confectioner’s custard (p. 137) mixed with finely cut dice of preserved or fresh pineapple. Arrange the slices in a buttered timbale mould, a little larger than the first mould used, and so give the cake its original shape ; fill up with a custard, made with three yolks of eggs, pint of cream, and sugar to taste. Steam the pudding for two hours, turn out and pour over an apricot syrup flavoured with kirsch, Pouding a I’Autrichienne {Austrian Pudding). 4 eggs, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. cake- crumbs, J gill cream, 2 oz. glace cherries, pint fresh or preserved raspberries. 1' Put the raspberries in a buttered fireproof china souffle dish (quart or three-pint size). Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bowl on the ice. Stir the sugar into the yolks and beat up to a cream, adding the ground almonds and cake-crumbs gradually. Melt the butter and stir it into the mixture, also the cream. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them carefully into the above preparation. Turn this into the souffle dishes containing the fruit. Put the glace cherries, previously cut in halves, on top, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for half an hour. Serve very hot. If fresh raspberries are used they must be previously stewed in a little syrup. Pouding de Bananes {Banana Pudding). 6 bananas, not over ripe, ^ lb. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, i gill milk, i teaspoonful Royal baking powder, 6 drops vanilla essence. Peel and chop finely the bananas, put them with the other dry ingredients into a basin and mix well. Beat up the eggs, add the milk and vanilla essence, and mix gradually with the above. Pour the mixture into a buttered pudding mould and steam for about 2\ to 3 hours,HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 729 Pouding de Bananes [Banana Pudding). 2 bananas, lb. castor sugar, 3 eggs, i gill milk or cream, 4 oz. Coombs’ self-raising flour, i oz. butter. Cream the sugar and butter, work in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, add the flour (sifted), then stir in the milk or cream. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Peel the bananas, and cut in thin slices. Stir both gently into the mixture. Have ready some buttered clariole-moulds or one pudding-mould, three-parts fill with the preparation. Steam or bake for one hour. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a syrup or sw-eet sauce. Pouding Cabinet [Hot or Cold). 4 sponge cakes or other plain cake, 6 macaroons, a handful of ratalias, 4 eggs, t pint of milk, i glass of sherry, 2 oz. almonds, i gill cream, a few glace cherries, angelica, a few drops vanilla e.ssence. Butter a plain charlotte mould, decorate the bottom wdth halves of cherries and strips of angelica. Blanch, peel, shred, and bake the almonds a light brown colour. Sprinkle the sides of the mould with these, then fill it wdth alternate layers of slices of sponge cakes, macaroons, and ratafias. Beat up the eggs, mix wdth the milk, cream, and wdne, and flavour wdth vanilla. Pour this into the mould, cover wdth buttered paper, and let it stand for about an hour. Steam for tw'o hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve wdth German sauce or fruit syrup. This pudding is exceedingly nice served cold, in wTich case it should be garnished wdth more fruit, and sent to table wdth a border of w'hipped sweetened cream round the base of the pudding. Pouding a la Cambaceres. t- lb. beef suet, 6 oz. castor sugar, 8 eggs, 4 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. Hour, 4 oz. stoned raisins, 4 oz, crushed macaroons, i oz. angelica (cut into small dice), I small glass of rum, t gill cream. Pound the suet in a mortar till fine, then rub it through a sieve into a basin. Stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar, and work to a light mixture, adding the cream at the last. Add the raisins (chopped), almonds, macaroons, angelica, and rum. ^^’hisk the wTites of eggs to a stiff froth, sift the flour, and mix both carefully in. Have ready one or tw’o w’ell-buttered moulds, three-parts fill them wdth the mixture. Cover wdth a buttered paper and steam for tw'o and a half hours or longer. Serve hot wdth a sw'eet sherry sauce or a w^ell-flavoured hot custard sauce. Pouding a la Cannelle {Cinnamon Pudding). 1 pint milk, 3 oz. sponge biscuits, 4 eggs, lb. castor sugar, -j lb. ground almonds, an inch of cinnamon or \ oz. ground cinnamon, 2 oz. butter, grated nutmeg, i tablespoonful flour. Boil the milk and cinnamon together for one minute, break up the sponge biscuits, strain the milk over them. Cream il oz. butter wdth the sugar, add the yolks of eggs, one at a time, stir in the almonds, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the biscuits and milk. Beat the wdrites of eggs to a stiff froth, add them and the flour gradually to the mixture. Butter a pudding-mould, sprinkle well wdth breadcrumbs, fill three-parts full wdth the above, and bakeTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 730 for three-quarters of an hour in a moderately-heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a hot raspberry syrup. Pouding a la Berlinoise {Berlin Pudding). 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor or vanilla sugar, 4 oz. almonds, 6 eggs, gills milk. Blanch, peel, shred the almonds finely, and dry them in a cool oven. Sift the flour into a basin, stir in half the milk, and beat to a batter. Put the butter and the remainder of the milk in a stew-pan, let boil, add the sugar, stir in the prepared batter, keep stirring until it begins to thicken, then pour into a basin and let cool. Work in the yolks of eggs, add the almonds, beat well. Whip the whites stiffly, stir them carefully in, and fill into one or two well-buttered moulds. Cover with a buttered paper, and boil or steam for about two hours, according to size. Serve with sweet orange or custard sauce. Castle Puddings. I' oz. Brown & Poison's Paisley flour, 2 eggs, their weight in butter, sugar, and flour. Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, and stir in the flour and Paisley flour well mixed together. Bake in buttered darioles for twenty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve tvith jam sauce round. Jam Sauce. Boil together one tablespoonful of jam, one tablespoonful of castor sugar, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a gill of water. Colour with cochineal, and strain round the pudding. Pouding aux Cerises {Cherry Pudding). 1 lb. best cooking cherries, 6 oz. loaf sugar, an inch cinnamon, i gill cream, 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, the rind of \ lemon, a pinch of salt, a little butter, gill milk. Stone the cherries, stew till tender with the sugar, cinnamon, and water barely to cover, and allow to cool. Mix the flour with a little milk and a pinch of salt, boil up the cream, and mix both together, add the castor sugar, and stir over the fire until the mixture becomes smooth and leaves the stew-pan clean. When cool, add the grated rind of half a lemon, separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, and work in the yolks, one at a time. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and mix carefully. Butter a pudding-mould, garnish the bottom with a layer of cherries, and fill up alternately with a layer of the prepared mixture and the cherries, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. Pouding au Chocolat {Chocolate Pudding). lb. chocolate (Kohler’s), ^ pint milk, i oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. cake-crumbs, 4 eggs, \ teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Break up the chocolate, put it with the milk in a stew-pan, and boil up. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little without taking colour, add the cake-crumbs, moisten with milk, stir over the fire until it becomes thick and leaves the sides of the pan per-HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 73^ fectly clean. Cool, slightly work in the egg-yolks one by one, add the sugar, chocolate, vanilla essence, and whites of eggs stiffly whipped. Pour into a well-buttered plain mould, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for i|- hours or bake for one hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with chocolate sauce. Pouding au Chocolat meringue [Frosted Chocolate Pudding). |- pint milk, 4 eggs, 3 oz. corntlour, 3 oz. unsweetened chocolate, vanilla essence, 4 oz. castor sugar. Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk. Boil the remainder of the milk with the chocolate and about three ounces of sugar. Stir in the cornflour and work over the fire until it thickens, cook for about ten minutes, then stir in the yolks of three eggs and one whole egg. Add the vanilla essence, and beat up. Have ready a well-buttered pudding or cake tin, pour in the mixture, and cook in a moderate oven in a bain-marie or otherwise. It will take about forty-five minutes to steam or half an hour to bake. Beat the remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix with the sugar left over, add a little vanilla essence or vanilla sugar to flavour. When the pudding is done, turn out on a dish, let cool a little, cover quickly with the froth of whites of egg, etc., dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes longer. A few shredded almonds may be stuck in the pudding before it is sent to table. Pouding au Citron [English Lemon Pudding). 11). finely chopped beef suet, 6 oz._ flour. \ lb. lireadcrumbs, 8 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 lemons, 3 gills milk, i teaspoonful baking-powder. Mix the suet, flour, breadcrumbs, sugar, and baking-powder in a basin, add the grated rind of one lemon. Strain the juice of both lemons, beat up the eggs and the milk, and stir this with the lemon- juice into above. Mix thoroughly, fill into buttered pudding- moulds, and steam for two hours. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with marmalade or custard sauce. Cornflour Custard Pudding. 3 oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, 4 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 2 pints of milk, a piece of lemon-rind, cinnamon, bay-leaf or vanilla for flavouring. Blend the cornflour with a little of the milk. Bring to the boil the remainder of the milk with the sugar and flavouring. If lemon-peel, cinnamon or bay-leaf has been itsed, remove it now. Whisk into the milk the cornflour mixture, boil a few minutes, let it cool, then beat in, one at a time, the eggs. Butter a dish, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Note.—All kinds of custard puddings should be baked in a slow oven. Excessive heat curdles the eggs, and the pudding is then generally loose and watery. Pouding a la Crecy [Carrot Pudding). 1 lb. young carrots, J- lb. fine fre.sh breadcrumbs, lb. butter, 2 oz. glace cherries, lb. castor sugar, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt. WMsh and scrub the carrots, but do not scrape them. Cover with boiling water slightly salted, cook till tender, and rub through732 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. a fine sieve. Cream the butter with the sugar well, add the bread- crumbs and the cinnamon. Stir in the yolks of eggs and beat well. Cnt the cherries into quarters and add also. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix the carrot pulp with the creamed butter, breadcrumbs, etc., and add lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a well-buttered mould and steam for rather more than two hours. Serve with lemon sauce or sweet sherry sauce. Cup Puddings. 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, lemon or vanilla essence, 4 oz. ground rice, i oz. Vienna flour, ^ teaspconful baking-powder. Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the eggs, add a few drops of flavouring essence, and lastly and lightly the flour, ground rice, and baking-powder. Fill into greased cup or bouche moulds, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Turn out in a hot dish, and serve with marmalade or jam sauce. Pouding a la Dresde {Dresden Pudding). 2 oz. flour, i-J- oz. butter. pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls desiccated cocoanut, 3 eggs, 2 oz. whole-meal breadcrumbs, 2 oz. sugar, -t teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i liqueur glass cnraqoa, the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, add half a gill of water, one gill of milk, stir well whilst cooking. Pleat the remainder of the milk, pour it over the cocoanut, add the brown breadcrumbs, let it stand for ten minutes in a warm place, then add the sugar and lemon-rind. Stir the yolks of eggs into the butter and flour preparation, add the cocoanut and brown bread mixture, and stir well. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them gently in, add the cinnamon and liqueur. Pour the whole into a well- buttered souffle tin or ordinary pudding mould, and bake it for about one hour in a moderately-heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot fruit syrup or some other nicely flavoured pudding sauce. Pouding a la Duchesse (Duchess Pudding). 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. macaroons, 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade, i teaspoonful ground rice, i oz. chopped pistachios. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, adding gradually the yolks of six eggs, incorporate the macaroons (roughly pounded) and the orange marmalade. Whisk the whites of six eggs till stiff, add to them the ground rice and half the pistachios, and mix lightly with the other ingredients. Butter a timbale or plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the bottom with chopped pistachios, and pour in the mixture. Steam for hour in the usual manner, unmould, and serve with a hot sweet sauce. Finger Pudding. 6 oz. almonds, i gill milk, 6 oz. castor sugar, 8 eggs, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of ground cloves, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. crushed biscuits (Savoy or finger biscuits). Blanch and peel the almonds, dry and pound them in a mortar, adding the milk little by little. Cream the sugar with eight egg- yolks in a basin, when sufficiently beaten add to it the pounded almond mixture, the cinnamon, lemon-rind, and cloves. Whisk theHOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 733 whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, melt the butter, and stir both alternately and in small quantities into the above mixture, lastly add the crushed biscuits. Put this into buttered moulds, and steam for about an hour, then turn out, dish up, and serve with a sweet sauce. Pouding Genevoise {Geneva Pudding). Fill a well-buttered timbale-mould with layers of cooked rice (cooked in milk and sweetened) and apple puree (flavoured with cinnamon), bake for thirty minutes, and serve with hot fruit syrup. Timbale de fruits a la Louis Napoleon. 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 whole eggs, 2 uz. Hour, dried and sifted, i-5- oz, corn- tiour, 2 oz. ground almonds, a few drops orange-flower water, i glass maraschino, 2 oz. fresh butter, a pinch of salt, compote of fruit—apricots, peaches, etc.—glace fruits. m;‘ringue for coating ant ornamenting. Cream the egg-yolks with the sugar, and add the flour, cornflour, and butter, previously warmed. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the almonds, the orange-flower water, and mix in lightly. Fill into a buttered timbale mould, and bake in a c^uick oven for about ^ an hour. Cut off the top, and scoop out the centre. Next All up the cake crust with well - drained fruit compote. Sprinkle over with the maraschino, and put some fruit on the top to give it a dome shape. Coat with a meringue preparation made with 3 whites of eggs and oz. of fine sugar. Ornament this with the cornet, and garnish with glace cherries and angelica. Bake in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot with a fruit syrup. Marmalade Pudding. 6 oz. orange marmalade, 8 oz. breadcrumbs, 6 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 eggs, V teaspoonful baking powder, a pinch of salt. Mix the marmalade, breadcrumbs, salt, and suet in a basin, stir in the eggs one at a time, beat well for a few minutes, and add the baking-powder. If found too stiff, a little milk or cream may be added. Put the mixture in a well buttered pudding-basin, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam for three hours or boil for 2-J- hours. When done turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. Pouding aux Marrons {Chestnut Pudding). Prepare a mixture the same as for chocolate pudding (p. 730), but use only one ounce of chocolate, and add four to six ounces of chestnut puree. Fill into a buttered mould, and bake or steam for ih hour. Serve with vanilla or custard sauce.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 734 Pouding de Marrons a la Creole {Chestnut Pudding). J lb. cooked chestnuts rubbed through a sieve, lb. castor sugar, lb. butter, 6 eggs, 4 oz. crushed macaroons, vanilla flavouring. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, add the macaroons and the yolks of eggs one at a time, the vanilla flavouring, and mix in the chestnut puree. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix the whole carefully. Fill up a well-buttered mould, and steam for ik to if hour in the oven or in a covered stew-pan on the stove. Dish up and serve with vanilla custard sauce. Pouding a la Mercedes. 3 oz. Jordan almonds, 3-4 bitter almonds, i lemon, 4 oz. loaf sugar, pint milk, 3 eggs, 2 oz. glace cherries or other glace fruit {such as apricots or pears), about ^ oz. ginger biscuits, 3 macaroons. Blanch and peel the almonds, then pound them in a mortar, and add to it a little milk, and boil up. Put the almonds into a napkin and press out as much of the liquid as possible, and add it to the rest of the milk. Beat up the eggs, and strain them into the milk, add also the strained juice of the lemon. Cut the biscuits and macaroons into small pieces, put them into a well-buttered and floured pudding mould, and between each layer of biscuits put a little of the glace fruit, which must be cut very small. When the mould is thirs filled, pour in the milk and eggs, cover with buttered paper, place it in a saute-pan containing boiling water, and steam gently in the oven for about one hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sauce, Pouding au Miel {Honey Pudding). lb. honey, 6 oz. soft breadcrumbs, i small lemon, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful ground ginger, i oz. butter, i oz. florador, i gill milk. Mix the honey and breadcrumbs in a basin, cook the florador for ten minutes in the milk, add it to the above, and when well mixed stir in the warmed butter, rind of half a lemon, finely grated, ginger, yolks of two eggs, and beat well. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate gently. Three-parts fill a buttered mould with the mixture, and steam from if to if hour. Serve hot, with a suitable sauce or syrup. Milk Puddings. Wash, blanch, and drain 2 oz. of rice. Cook gently (preferably in a double saucepan) until tender in about if pint of milk. Stir in a well-beaten egg, sweeten to taste, pour into a buttered pie-dish, grate over a little nutmeg, and bake for about half an hour in a moderately-heated oven. Sago, tapioca, macaroni, and vermicelli can be used in place of rice, but will not require to be washed. Motsa Pudding. 3-4 Passover cakes, 2 oz. currants, 2 oz. raisins, 2 oz. suet, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 apples, teaspoonful finely grated lemon-rind, a pinch of salt, I teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 2 eggs. Soak the Passover cakes in cold water, then press them dry. Pare, core, and slice the apples. Chop the suet finely, clean the currants, and stone the raisins. Mix all together, add the sugar.HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 735 lemon-rind, salt, cinnamon, and stir in the well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a well-oiled pudding-mould and steam or boil for about four hours. Mincemeat Pudding. 1 lb. mincemeat (page 822), lb. breadcrumbs, juice i lemon, and peel, chopped fine, i glass brandy, 4 eggs, well beaten. Mix the ingredients thoroughly and boil in a cloth or buttered pudding-mould for about three hours or longer. Unmould and serve with marmalade or brandy sauce. Pouding a la Minute [Hasty Pudding). 2 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, -1- teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or other flavouring, 2 oz. flour (sifted), -J- teaspoonful of baking-powder, i heaped-up tablespoonful of jam (raspberry, strawberrjr or apricot). Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and beat up cjuickly. Mix the flour with the baking-powder and stir the eggs, etc., into this. Beat up to a light batter, add the flavouring essence, and pour half the mixture into a flat buttered cake-tin. Dissolve the jam, and pour it over the mixture, then add the remainder. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn ont on to a warm dish, dredge with sugar, and serve at once. Pouding a la Moelle [Baked Marrow Pudding). 6 oz. beef marrow, 6 oz. breadcrumbs, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. candied peel (lemon and orange), J gill brandy, gill sherr3^ 2 oz. crystallised cherries. Chop the marrow very finely, put into a basin, and mix with the breadcrumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, cream the yolks with the sugar, adding one at a time. Shred the peel very finely, cut up the cherries into small pieces, add this to the yolks and sugar, stir in the marrow and crumbs, and mix in' the 'brandy and sherry. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle carefully with the mixture. Fill up a well-buttered cylindrical-shaped cake-mould with this, stand on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour. Turn out on a hot dish, dredge witfi sugar, and serve hot with German or jam sauce. Pouding Mousseline [Mousseline Pudding). 2 oz. butter, i lemon, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, about oz. flour, \ tea- spoonful vanilla essence, mousseline sauce. Cream the butter, add the sugar, work together for ten minutes, then stir in the finely chopped lemon-rind, the yolks of eggs one at a time, the juice of half the lemon, and vanilla essence. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix carefully the wFites and flour (previously sifted) with the above preparation. Have ready a plain charlotte mould, well buttered, and fined with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, cover with paper, place in a saucepan three- parts filled with boiling water, cover the pan, and steam the pudding for a little more than an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, remove the paper. Whisk the mousseline sauce until quite frothy, and pour round the pudding. Note.—This 'being a very light souffle pudding, it is necessary that it should be served immediately.7J6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pouding de Noel {Christmas or Plum Pudding}, i lb. stoned raisins, lb. picked and cleaned currants, lb. candied peel cut into shreds, i lb. moist sugar, i peeled apple (russey chopped, 2 oz. ground almonds, the rind of i lemon grated, |- lb. suet finely chopped, i teaspoonful ground cloves, teaspoonful ground cinnamon, lb. bread- crumbs, lb. flour, a pinch of salt, 5 eggs, i gill milk, gill rum or brandy. Put all the dry ingredients in a large basin, mix thoroughly, work in the eggs one at a time, and the rum or brandy. Butter one or two pudding-moulds, fill with the mixture, tie over with a buttered cloth. Place the moulds in a stock - pot or large stew- pan three- parts full of boiling water, and boil for about four hours, f Add more boiling water when needed. Take off the cloth, turn the pud- ding on a hot dish, ornament the top with crescent-shaped pieces of citron or orange peel, angelica leaves, and glace cherries. Dredge well with castor sugar, pour a little rum or brandy round the dish, and light it as it is sent to the table. Pouding a la Normande {Normandy Pudding). 6 medium-sized sour cooking apples, 3 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, 4 oz. fried breadcrumbs, i gill claret, 3 eggs, vanilla essence, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon. For sauce : i tablespoonful apricot jam, i tablespoonful red- currant jelly, I small glass port wine. Peel the apples, cut them into quarters, and core. Put them in a saute-pan with the butter and about two ounces of castor sugar, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven till tender. Put the fried crumbs into a basin, moisten with the wine, cream the remainder of sugar , and eggs together, add it to the above, together with the syrup of the apples, flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence and cinnamon, mix thoroughly, and fill into a well buttered and sugared copper pudding-mould, placing the apples in layers between the mixture. Place the mould on a baking-tin in a moderate oven, and bake for one hour. Unmould, and serve with a sauce prepared with the ingredients above stated. Pouding aux Nouilles {Noodle or Nouille Pudding). j lb. nouille paste (p. 134), oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, tea- spoonful of vanilla essence, i oz. mixed peel (candied). Roll out the nouille paste as thinly as possible, fold it and cutHOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 737 into very thin strijJs, loosen them and drop them into slightly salted fast-boiling water containing the butter. Allow it to boil rapidly for five minutes. Take them up carefully with a perforated ladle or slice, and put them on a sieve to clrain. Meanwhile cream the yolks of eggs with the sugar, and add the fiavouring essence. Beat up the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Butter a plain timbale- or ordinary pudding-mould. Mix all the ingredients care- fully together, adding also the peel, cut into fine shreds, and three- parts fill the mould. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for i:^ hour. Serve hot, with a suitable sauce. Pouding a 1 Orientale. 4 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Vienna flour, i oz. cornflour, 1 tablespoonful coffee extract ; sweet sauce or syrup. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former into a basin, the latter into an egg-bowl on the ice. Cream the butter and sugar together for about ten minutes, add the egg-yolks gradu- ally, and beat up thoroughly, then mix in the coffee extract. Mix the two kinds of flour and rub through a sieve, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir the Hour and egg-whites lightly into the mixture. Three-parts fill a plain charlotte or timbale mould, previously well greased. Steam in the usual manner for about id hour. Turn out on to a hot dish and sauce over with a fruit syrup or some kind of sweet sauce. Pouding au Pain noir {Brown Bread Pudding). 6 oz. brown breadcrumbs, t pint milk, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. mixed candied peel, grated nutmeg, i teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt. A glass of sherry, if liked. Boil up the milk and pour over the breadcrumbs, add the cinna- mon, candied peel (finely chopped or shredded), and a pinch of salt. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, mix in the soaked breadcrumbs, and add a little grated nutmeg. Put the mixture in a well-buttered mould, co\^er with a buttered paper, and steam for about two hours, if wine is used it should be added last of all. Unmould the pudding on a hot dish, and serve with fruit syrup or custard sauce. This pudding is equally nice served cold. Pouding a la Paysanne. 6 oz. white breadcrumbs, 2J oz. butter, about i pint milk, 5 eggs, J lb. sultanas (cleaned), i heaped-up tablcspoonful apricot jam, 2 oz. castor sugar, gill rum, i teaspoonful finely chopped lemon-rind. Soak the crumbs in the milk for half an hour, drain off the superfluous milk, put the crumbs in a stew-pan, add two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Let cool a little, then add the sugar, the yolks of eggs, lemon-rind, sultanas, jam, and rum. Mix well, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in gradually. Butter the pudding-mould, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stew-pan three- parts full of boiling water, let it come to the boil, and bake in the738 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. oven for an hour and a half. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a sabayon au rhum {see p. 171). Primrose Pudding. lb. butter, lb. castor sugar, 5 eggs, 4 oz. flour (sifted), the rind of a small lemon grated, ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence. Work the butter and sugar in a basin till creamy. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, adding a little flour, to avoid curdling, ^^brk the mixture for at least twenty minutes, then add the lemon-rind and vanilla, the remainder of the flour, and a pinch of salt. Butter one or two timbale-moulds, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about two hours. W’hen done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with wine sauce, vanilla custard or sabayon sauce. Note.—If liked, a tablespoonful of finely chopped primrose petals may be stirred into the mixture just before adding the flour. Pouding Prince George. 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. whole-meal breadcrumbs, 8 oz. Genoise cake, crumbled, 2 oz. finely crushed macaroons, 6 oz. preserved pineapple cut into dice, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 4 oz. preserved ginger, chopped finely, i small glass rum, glass,kirsch, 5 eggs, 2 oz. sugar, 4 lemon. Mix the sitet with all the dry ingredients in a basin. Put the pineapple and ginger in a small basin, pour over the rum and kirsch, cover, and let soak for an hour, beat up the eggs well, and add by degrees to the dry ingredients. Work this thoroughly, then add the fruit, etc. If found too stiff, a little fruit syrup or milk can be added. Fill one or two well-buttered pudding-moulds with the mixture, cover with buttered paper, and steam for two hours or longer. M'hen done turn out on a hot dish and serve with a hot custard sauce or fruit syrup, flavoured with some kind of liqueur. Pouding a la Prince Henri. 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. butter, 7 eggs, 4 oz. glace cherries, i oz. candied peel, 6 oz. flour, i glass kirschwasser, finger biscuits, sweet sauce. Cream the sugar and butter together in a basin, stir in gradually the yolks of seven eggs, add the cherries cut into small dice, the peel, finely chopped, the kirschwasser liqueur, and beat well. M'hisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix this and the flour in gradually. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered mould with the finger biscuits, put in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about 2 or 2|- hours. Serve with any kind of suitable sweet sauce. Pouding Royal. Geiioise mixture (p. 806), red-currant jelly, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill milk, vanilla pod, 4 lumps loaf sugar, 3 eggs. Spread the Genoise mixture thinly on a buttered paper-lined baking-tin, and bake in a moderately-heated oven, turn it on to a paste-board, remove the paper and spread the cake with dissolved red-currant jelly, roll it carefully like a Swiss roll, and let cool. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little. Boil the milkHOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 739 with an inch of vanilla pod and loaf sngar together, then poiir it, boiling, over the mixture of Hour and butter, stir vigorously over the lire for a few minutes, remove the vanilla, and let cool a little. Beat in three yolks of eggs and their whites, previously whisked to a stiff froth. Have ready a large buttered, plain or fluted mould, line the sides closely with very thin slices of Swiss roll, put it on the ice for a few minutes, then lill with the souffle mixture. Steam for about an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour some liot sabayon or other wine sauce round it and in the centre, but not over it. Serve hot. Pouding a la St. Jean. p lb. chopped suet, lb. preserved pineapple, 2 oz. preserved ginger, ] lb. glace pears, 3 oz. soft breadcrumbs, t lb. sponge-cake crumbs, i lemon, \ glass Madeira, glass St. James’s rum, 5 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, gill milk or cream. Have ready the suet finely chopped, the pineapple cut into small dice, ginger and pears chopped finely, and put into a basin with the cake and breadcrumbs. Moisten with the wine, rum, and juice of the lemon, add the sugar and the rind of half a lemon, finely chopped. Beat up the eggs thoroughly, and mix with the above. Butter a pudding-mould, dust with flour, pour in the pre- paration, tie over with a buttered paper or cloth, and steam from two to three hours. Remove the paper or cloth, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with sauce Sabayon. Pouding Saxon [Sa.xony Pudding). I small stale loaf brown bread, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 3 gills milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. glace cherries, 3 oz. sultanas, i lemon, i smali glass sherry or marsala, i gill cream. Trim the crust off the loaf (or stale plain cake), cut the crumby part into small dice and put in basin. Put the loaf sugar in a stew-pan, when of a light brown colour (caramel) put in three gills of milk, and boil up. Beat up the yolks of three eggs and two whole eggs, stir the boiling milk on to this, pour over the bread and add the castor sugar, glace cherries, cut in quarters, sultanas picked, the finely chopped rind of half a lemon and its juice, the sherry or marsala, and a gill of cream. Mix all thoroughly, and put into a well-buttered pudding mould. Steam for two hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot custard or fruit syrup. Pouding a la Schiller. Prepare about twelve thin pancakes made in the usual manner. Line a cylindrical-shaped mould, well buttered, with a layer of pancakes. Cover one side of the remainder of pancakes with raspberry jam or apricot marmalade, roll up, cut into inch pieces, and range them in the mould as neatly as possible, with halves of cherries or apricots laid in between the rows of pancakes. Mix five yolks of eggs with half-pint of milk, add three or four ounces of castor sugar, half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, pour into the mould, stand the mould in a saute-pan with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and finish cooking in the oven. It will take740 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. about forty-five minutes to cook. When done, turn out. Coat the whole with apricot marmalade, and send to table with some kind of custard or other light sweet sauce. Snowdon Pudding. I lb. beef suet (chopped finely), lb. breadcrumbs, 4 oz. castor sugar, ‘the riud of I lemon finely grated, i oz. ground rice, 2 eggs, gill milk, 2 table- spoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz. glace cherries, 4 lb- raisins (stoned), I teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Cut the raisins and cherries in halves, grease a pudding-basin or tin mould, and decorate the bottom and sides vdth the fruit. Put the remainder of the fruit and all the dry ingredients in a basin, mix them thoroughly, add the eggs and milk, stir well, and lastly add the marmalade : this should be slightly warmed, so that it will mix more freely. Pour the mixture into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, steam for hour, remove the paper, turn the pudding out on a hot dish, pour some hot custard or fruit syrup round the base of the dish, and serve. Transparent Pudding. 6 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. butter, apricot jam. Cream the sugar and butter together, add one by one the yolks of eggs, beat up for about fifteen minutes. Butter five or six small timbale or dariole moulds. Divide half the above mixture equally into the moulds, then place about a dessertspoonful of apricot jam in the middle of each mould, fill up with the remainder of mixture, and steam them from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Take up, allow the moulds to stand for a few minutes, then turn out into a hot dish, pour round some custard sauce, and serve. Ponding a la Victoria. ^ lb. beef suet, 4 oz. fresh breadcrumbs, 3 oz. flour, 4 small apples, peeled and cored, 4 oz. apricot jam, 2 oz. mixed peel, 3 oz. dried cherries, 3 oz. sugar, 4 eggs, i glass brandy, i-J- gill cream. Free the suet from skin and chop it finely, dry and sift the flour, chop the peeled and cored apples finely, and shred the peel. Put these ingredients into a basin, add the cherries cut into quarters, also the remainder of dry ingredients, and the jam. Mix thoroughly. Beat up the eggs, and mix with the cream, stir this into the basin and work well, aclding the brandy last of all. Fill the mixture into a well-buttered mould, cover with a buttered paper or tie over with a cloth (previously buttered and floured), put to boil in boiling water, and cook for an hour and a half, or more. Unmould, and serve with a hot sweet custard sauce, flavoured with a dessert- spoonful of maraschino or curayoa liqueur. Pouding Viennoise ( Vienna Pudding). Trim off the crust from a small loaf of brown bread or use a stale plain cake, cut the crumby part into small dice, and put in a basin. Dissolve 2 oz. ’of loaf sugar in a stew-pan, when of a light brown colour (caramel) put in three gills of milk, and boil up. Beat up the yolks of 3 eggs and 2 whole eggs, and stir in the boiling milk, and pour the whole over the bread or cake.HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 74' Add 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. glace cherries, cut in quarters, 2 oz. sultanas, picked, the hnely chopped rind of half a lemon, and its juice, a small glass of sherry or marsala, and a gill of cream. When thoroughly mixed, fill into a well-buttered pudding mould. Steam for two hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot custard or fruit syrup. Pouding a la Wellington. 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. flour, 4 oz. brown breadcrumbs, 4 oz. sultanas, i oz. finely chopped candied orange-peel, 4 oz. castor sugar, I tablespoonful caramel, 5 eggs, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i small glass marsala or sherry, i gill milk, chestnut puree for garnish, apricot sauce. Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, add the caramel and the eggs, one at a time, moisten with sufficient milk to produce a light consistency, add the wine and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and mix the whole well. Fill up a well-buttered border-mould, cover it with buttered paper, and steam for about three hours. Meanwhile prepare a chestnut puree, flavour it well with cream, vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Unmould the border on a hot dish, pile the puree in the centre of the dish, pour round the apricot sauce, and serve hot. Pouding souffle aux Amandes {Burnt Almond Pudding). ^ pint milk, i dessertspoonful creme de riz, a pinch of ground cinnamon, I oz. burnt almonds, pint cream, 6 yolks of eggs, 14 oz. vanilla sugar. Boil up the milk and cream in a stew-pan, pound and add the almonds, and one ounce of vanilla sugar, stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz, whisk the whole over a gentle fire to bind the eggs, but the mixture must not be allowed to boil, or it may curdle. Pour this into a well-buttered, plated souffle dish, sprinkle with a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover the surface. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes to brown the surface, and serve quickly. If the oven is not hot enough to brown the top, hold the dish under a sala- mander for a few seconds. Note.—Cornflour, potato flour or Vienna flour may, if preferred, be used in place of “ creme de riz ” or ground rice. Pouding souffle a 1’Ananas [Pineapple Souffle Pudding). 6 oz. fresh or preserved pineapple, 4 pint milk, 2 inches vanilla pod. ^ oz. butter, 4 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. \'ienna flour, angelica for garnish. Let the milk and vanilla-pod infuse by the side of the fire for about half an hour. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, strain the milk into this, work vigorously over the fire until the flour is thoroughly cooked. Stir in the sugar and a handful of cut pine- apple, let cool a little, then add the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Butter a plain charlotte mould, decorate the bottom with slices of pineapple and angelica, stamped out with a plain round cutter. Add the whites of four eggs, previously whipped to a stiff froth, to the mixture, pour it into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about forty-five or fifty ^minutes. Garnish tastefully with a few fancifully-cut slices of pineapple, and serve with a sweet sauce or syrup.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 742 Pouding souffle aux Praises {Stvawherry Pudding). Proceed the same as directed in “ Pouding souffle aux Fram- boises,” but substitute for the raspberries half a pound of freshly picked small ripe strawberries, and add also a little red colouring, cochineal or carmine. Pouding souffle aux Framboises [Raspberry Pudding). \ lb. ripe raspberries, 4 eggs, 2 oz. cake-crumbs or fresh breadcrumbs, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz, fecula or creme de riz, oz. butter, gill cream. Pick the stalks from the raspberries, put them in a basin with the cream, mash, and add the sugar and crumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, put the fecula or creme de riz in a basin, stir into this the egg-yolks, when smooth add to the mixture, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gradually with the above. Have ready a well-buttered charlotte mould, lined with buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. As soon as cooked the pudding should be sent to table. Serve a suitable sauce or syrup along with the pudding. Pouding souffle a I’Indienne. 6 oz. loaf sugar, 2 oz. shredded almonds, li oz. butter, 2 oz. semolina or florador, i gill milk, i tablespoonful castor sugar, 4 eggs, a few drops of vanilla essence. Put the loaf sugar in a copper pan with a few drops of water, when dissolved place it on the fire and cook till it acquires a light amber colour, then add the shredded almonds, stir quickly over the fire for a few seconds longer, and mask the interior of a plain charlotte mould in the same manner as for a caramel pudding. Boil up the milk and butter, stir in the semolina or florador, cook for a few minutes over the fire, stirring all the while, cool a little, add the egg-yolks, vanilla, castor sugar, and the whites of eggs stiffly whipped. Three-parts fill the prepared mould. Place it in a saute-pan containing boiling water and cook for twenty minutes over the fire, then put it in the oven and bake for another twenty minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and pour over a hot custard sauce. Send to table quickly. Pouding souffle a POrange [Baked Orange Pudding). pint milk, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, A'oz.' buttef, 3 oz.' cake-crumbs, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i orange, i glass of ri'oyeau or kirsch, a few glace cherries. Heat the milk, pour it over the crumbs, cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks and one white of egg, stir until stiff, then add the soaked crumbs, the liqueur, half the orange-rind, finely peeled and chopped, and a tablespoonful of orange-juice. Pile up neatly on a buttered souffle dish, bake a golden brown in a moderately heated oven (about half an hour). Whisk the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth, cover the souffle completely with this, dredge with sugar, garnish with glace cherries, return to a quick oven for a few minutes to brown, and serve. This souffle is also very nice served cold.743 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. Pouding souffle a la Parmentier [Potato Pudding). W'ash six large potatoes, bake them in their skins in the oven, and pass through a sieve. To half-pound of puree mix two ounces of hnely sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, half-pint of boiling cream, and the rind of half a lemon, finely chopped. P>eat the mixture with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, add three or four yolks of eggs, \vhisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. Butter and flour a souffle-tin, fasten a paper band, well oiled, round the top, to prevent the mixture overflowing, bake from twenty to thirty minutes in a well-heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once. Pouding souffle a la Russe. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. Hour, pint of milk, a ])inch of salt, 3 oz. castor sugar, 6 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls raspberry jam, 6 thin pancakes. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, add the milk (boiling), stir till it boils, season with a pinch of salt and add the sugar, cook and stir for five minutes longer, and let it cool. Work in six yolks of eggs and the jam, previously heated and strained. Butter a plain charlotte mould and dredge with flour. Line the bottom and sides of the mould with pancakes. Whisk four whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir it lightly into the above mixture, also add the remainder of pancakes, cut into shreds. Turn into the prepared mould and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Dish up, and serve with a suitable sauce. Caramel sauce goes well with this pudding. Pouding souffle a la Vanille [Vanilla Souffle Pudding). Melt 2 oz. butter, stir in il oz. flour, stir over the fire and cook a little. Add gill milk, boiling and flavoured with vanilla, and sweetened with i oz. sugar. Workjt over the fire till it thickens744 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. and becomes a smooth paste. Let it cool a little, and beat in four yolks of eggs, and the stiffly-whisked whites of three eggs. Three- parts fill a buttered souffle mould, and steam for about forty minutes. Unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. Souffle aux Amandes Pralinees {Burnt Almond Souffle). 1 oz. butter, i oz. Vienna flour, i oz. castor sugar, i-| gill milk, 3 eggs, 2 oz. burnt almonds or best French almond rock, 10 drops of vanilla essence. Dissolve half the sugar with a few drops of water in a stew-pan, stir till it acquires a light brown colour, then pour in the milk and boil up, stir frequently. Melt the butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, mix it well with a wooden spoon, and add gradually the prepared milk. Stir till it forms a smooth paste, then mix in the remainder of the sugar. Pound the almonds or almond rock till fine, and add to the above. Allow the mixture to cool a little, then stir in one by one the yolks of three eggs, beat the mixture well, and add the vanilla essence. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, incorporate this carefully but thoroughly. Pour into a well-buttered mould, provided with a buttered paper band round the edge of the mould. Steam in the usual manner for about forty minutes, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. Souffle au Citron {Lemon Souffle). I OZ. butter, i oz. fioiir, i gill milk, 3 eggs, ^ a lemon, \ oz. castor sugar. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, when blended add the milk, sugar, the lemon-rind grated, and stir until boiling. Remove from the fire, beat in the yolks of eggs, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly in. Pour the mixture into a well-greased plain mould, and steam very slowly for about forty minutes. Turn on to a hot dish and pour round it a lemon-flavoured custard sauce. Cornflour souffle. \ oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, ^ pint milk, i oz. sugar, teaspoonful of vanilla, 2 eggs, short crust or puff paste to line pie-dish. Line a pie-dish thinly with the paste, decorate the edges with pieces cut with a fancy cutter. Blend the cornflour smootltly with a little milk, and strain it into the half-pint of milk when boiling. Cook for two or three minutes, then add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and vanilla essence. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the mixture. Pour into the lined dish, and bake for about thirty minutes. Dredge a little sugar over the top, and serve with a boat of chocolate sauce. Souffle Grand Marnier. 5 oz. butter, 5 eggs, i lemon, i orange, 4 oz. loaf sugar, i oz. castor sugar, I oz. flour, I gill milk, i liqueur glass Grand Marnier liqueur. Put 4 OZ. butter and 4 egg-yolks into a stew-pan with the juice of half a lemon, and let melt. Rub the loaf sugar into the lemon and orange-rind, so as to extract the zest, then pound the sugar finely in a mortar, adding the above mixture, butter, etc., and stir745 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. all with the pestle till quite creamy. Melt the remainder of butter (i oz.) in a stewpan, stir in the Hour, and cook a little, without browning, then add the milk and stir vigorously over the fire for a few minutes; next mix in the castor sugar and stir again. Cool a little, and incorporate the previously made mixture, also the stiffiy whisked whites of 5 eggs. Last of all add the Grand Marnier liqueur. Put the mixture into a well-buttered souffle dish, be- sprinkled with crushed macaroons, and cook, i.e. bake in a fairly sharp oven. Serve with Sabayon sauce flavoured with Grand Marnier liqueur. Note.—Any other kind of liqueur or flavouring essence for variation can be used in place of Grand Marnier, Souffle de Marrons {Chestnut Souffle). Slit twenty-four sound Italian or French chestnuts, put them in the oven long enough to enable one to remove the outer and inner skins or cook them in water. When peeled put the chestnuts in a stew-pan. Cover them with about a pint of milk, add a small piece of vanilla pod, and cook slowly till the chestnuts are tender. Remove the vanilla pod. Rub the cooked chestnuts through a fine sieve. Return the puree thus obtained to a clean stew-pan, and boil up, adding to it 4 oz. of castor sugar. Whisk stiffly the whites of four eggs and incorporate them with the puree. Butter a souffle dish and three-parts fill it with the above preparation. Bake it in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes. Dredge the top with vanilla sugar and glaze the surface, then place the souffle dish on a round, flat dish, covered with a folded napkin. Serve quickly. Souffles d’Oranges a la Gilbert {Oi-ange Souffles). 6 oranges, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i glass ciira9oa, 2 oz. butter, i table- spoonful cornflour, a teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Select oranges of even size, firm and juicy, cut the top off each and carefully remove the inside. Pass the pulp through a fine sieve, and add to it the liqueur. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former in a small stew-pan, and the latter into a basin or copper-bowl, and keep on the ice. Add the sugar and butter to the 3/olks, stir over a gentle fire until the liaison is formed, then add the cornflour, previously blended with the liqueur and orange pulp. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir lightly into the mixture, adding, at the same time, a few drops of orange-flower water. Arrange the souffle cases on a baking-tin, fill them with the above preparation, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve very hot. Souffle aux Prunes {Baked Prune Souffle). 1 lb, good-sized prunes, i lemon, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, i tablespoonful flour, -h oz. fresh butter, 4 oz. sweet almonds blanched and peeled. Wash the prunes, place them in a basin, cover with cold water, and let them soak for a few hours. Cook them over a slow fire746 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or in the oven in a casserole until they are tender, add the thin rind of a lemon, barely cover them with water, and set aside to cool. Cream the yolks of eggs wifh the sugar. When creamy, sprinkle in the flour and mix well, add the strained juice of half a lemon and the prunes, freed from the stones and cut into small pieces. Whisk the whites of eggs till stiff, stir half lightly into the mixture, also half the almonds, cut into small strips. Fill a well- buttered souffle dish, pile the remainder of egg-froth on top, sprinkle with castor sugar and the remainder of almond sfrips, and bake from twenty-five to thirty minutes in a moderate oven, Mousse a 1 Alsacienne [Hot Orange Mousse). 4 oz. castor sugar, 6 eggs, 4 oz. butter, i oz. flour, i orange, } lemon, mousseline sauce. Work the butter and sugar well until thick and creamy, stir in gradually the yolks of the eggs, the juice of the orange, and that of the half lemon. Whisk over a stew-pan of boiling water until it begins to thicken (this process is exactly the same as for a Gwroise or a Hollandaise). Stir in the flour and the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, turn into a charlotte mould, well buttered and dredged with flour, cover with a buttered paper. Place in a saute- pan three-parts full of hot water, and steam in the oven for a good half-hour. Turn out on a hot dish, sauce over with mousseline sauce, and serve quickly. Mousse aux Framboises (B'o^ Raspberry Mousse). Prepare a mixture the same as for “Ponding Mousseline’’ (p. 735), and incorporate ^ gill of raspberry syrup and a few fresh or preserved whole raspberries, as well as a few crushed Anger biscuits. Colour with liquid carmine or cochineal to -give the desired tint, and finish as directed above. Serve with a syrup flavoured with raspberries. POIRES—PEARS. Poires a la Paillard. 12 small cooking pears, i pint syrup, i lemon, 4 oz. rice, 2 oz. castor sugar, I pint milk, 3 vanilla pod, i gill cream, frangipane custard, angelica and crystallised violets for garnish, i oz. best currants (washed and soaked in maraschino syrup). Peel the pears smoothly, with a small vegetable cutter remove the cores from the bottom of each to within an inch of the stalk. Boil the syrup, add the juice of the lemon and a strip of the rind, put in the pears, and stew them gently till tender, keeping them as white as possible. Blanch, drain, and cook the rice in the milk with the vanilla pod. When done, remove the latter, add the sugar, cream, and currants, spread a layer of the rice on a flat round dish, on top arrange the pears, previously filled with fran- gipane custard, in the form of a pyramid, using more rice in building them up. Place one pear on top. Insert a few triangular-shaped slices of angelica round each pear, and put a crystallised violet innor SWEET ENTREMETS. 747 the centre. Shape some small balls with the remainder of rice, egg, crumb, and fry them, and place them round the edge of the dish. Serve with a boat of vanilla sauce. Pyramide de Poires a la Conde. J lb. Hour, 1- oz. yeast, i gill milk, i oz. candied fruit, maraschino syrup, 4 oz. butter, i oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, chojiped almonds (roasted)—for savarin ; a pinch of salt, 4 oz. rice, i oz. shredded almonds, i oz. currants, 2 apples, pint of milk, 2 oz, sugar, i vanilla pod—for rice shape ; 6 stewed pears and syrup, glace fruits, apricots, cherries, angelica, etc.—for garnishing. Prepare a savarin (see p. 756), butter a suitably shaped fluted mould, round or oval, and sprinkle the inside with coarsely chopped, roasted or baked almonds. Cut into small dice the candied fruit, and mix with the dough. Three-parts fill the mould with it, and bake in a moderate oven from thirty to forty minutes. Cook the rice in the milk till tender, with the sugar and vanilla pod, the latter to be removed when the rice is cooked. Cook the ajfples, with an ounce of butter, in the oven, rub through a sieve, and mix with the cooked rice. Clean the cur- rants, sh r e d the almonds, and add both to the rice. Cut the pears into sections, and keep hot in the syrup. Cut a portion out of the centre of the savarin cake, and put in its place a timbale shape of cooked rice, putting it on a suitable dish. Sprinkle the cake portion with well reduced maraschino syrup, fix round the outside even-sized strips of angelica, previously dipped in sugar boiled to the crack. Upon each of these place half a glace cherry -- this will form the border. Build up next the sections of pear round the rice shape, and insert on top triangular-shaped pieces of an- gelica. Upon this place a smaller shape of rice, with another border of angelica, and surmount the top with a small pyramid of glace cherries. Heat up the dish before serving, and send to table with a boat of nicely flavoured fruit syrup.748 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Poires au Riz a la Marquise {Pears, Marquise Style). Heat half a quart tin of preserved Bartlett pears in a well- tinned stew-pan, drain on a sieve, and reduce the syrup with 2 liqueur glasses of vanilla liqueur or maraschino. Wash ^ lb. rice, drain, cook in not quite a pint of milk, with 2 oz. castor sugar, ^ oz. butter, and the rind of lemon, chopped fine. When done, bind with two egg-yolks. Butter a fiat pudding-mould, fill in the prepared rice and turn out on a dish. Dress the pears neatly in a pyramidal form on the top, beat up two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add sufficient castor sugar to sweeten, spread the surface and sides thickly with this. Ornament a little, dust with sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven for fifteen minutes. Bordure de Poires a la Reine [Border of Pears, Queen Style). 2 lb. small stewing pears, i lb. loaf sugar, i oz. butter, i inch whole cinna- mon, 3 sponge cakes or a piece of Genoise cake, 2 whole and i yolk of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i gill milk, rind of a lemon. Peel and core the pears, put in a stew-pan with a quart of water, loaf sugar, cinnamon, and a few drops of cochineal, boil up, skim, and simmer until the pears are tender ; this will take about half an hour. Take out the fruit, reduce the syrup to the proper consistency, put the pears in the syrup again, and keep warm. Butter a border- mould with clarihed butter, line the bottom with a piece of buttered paper, beat up the eggs in a basin, add the cas- t o r sugar, milk, lemon- r i n d finely chopped, and a few drops of cochineal. Cut the cake in slices, place it in the mould, fill up with the custard mixture, stand the mould in a baking-tin half-filled with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and bake in the oven for forty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, arrange the pears in a row on the border and garnish with angelica leaves. Strain the syrup, pour over the pears, and serve hot or cold. In the latter case, the centre of border may be filled with whipped cream as shown in the illustration. Poires a la Sicilienne. Halves of Bartlett pears stewed in syrup, drained, filled with almond paste, placed on croiitons of cake, fried in butter, dredged with icing sugar, and glazed in a sharp oven ; served hot.749 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. ABRICOTS—APRICOTS. Suedoise d’Abricots. Choose twelve large apricots, halve them, remove stones, and blanch the kernels. Make a syrup with -J- lb. loaf sugar and })int water, put in the apricots while the sjnmp boils, add a small glass of curagoa, simmer for a few minutes, then drain the fruit cm a hair sieve. Cut a cork-shaped piece of bread about three inches long, also twenty-four round slices, about the shape of halves of apricots, fry these in hot butter, drain, sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon and castor sugar, fasten the large crouton on the centre of a round dish with a little marmalade, put each half-apricot on one of the small croutons, and arrange them in rows round the centre piece, hnishing with a fruit on the top. Stand the dish in the oven to get hot, boil up the syrup, pour over the apricots, upon each one put half a kernel, ornament with a few strips of angelica, and serve. Abricots a la Conde.—Prepare a timbale or border of cooked rice, flavoured with cream and vanilla, surmount it with compote of apricots, and decorate neatly with glace cherries and angelica; serve hot or cold, with fruit syrup. — a la Creole {Apricots, Creole Style).—This consists of preserved firm apricots (halves), drained, filled with rice cooked in milk and flavoured with vanilla. Coat each with reduced apricot mar- malade, dip in beaten egg, and roll in pulverised macaroons. Fry them to a light brown- in clarified butter. Dish up on rounds of fried cake or bread croutons made to adhere to the dish with a little marmalade; sauce over with a thick apricot sauce, and serve hot. — a la Reine.—Prepare and bake Genoise cake border, fill the centre with apricot compote, and garnish neatly with glace fruit; sauce over with dissolved apricot marmalade, flavoured with kirsch. — au Riz {Apricots with Rice).—Stewed apricots, dressed on a border of cooked sweetened rice ; garnished with glaced fruit ; may be served hot or cold. — au Riz meringue {Frosted Apricots with Rice).—As above, omitting the garnish, and coating the whole with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in a moderate oven. Note.—Peaches and pears can be prepared and treated in the same manner as apricots. POMMES—APPLES. Pommes au Beurre {Braised Buttered Apples). Peel thinly eight or more even-sized reinette apples or other small sour cooking apples, cut out the core of each by means of a column-cutter. xArrange the apples in a well buttered saute-pan, put about a teaspoonful of moist sugar in the cavity of each apple. Pour over them a little oiled butter, sprinkle with lemon-juice, and bake with the lid on the pan in a moderate oven till done. Care must be taken to keep the apples whole. Arrange them neatly on a round dish, and fill the centre of each with red-currant jelly. Have ready a syrup composed of red-currant jelly, one pat of butter.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK: 750 and a glass of Madeira, reduce well, and coat the apples with it. Place the dish in a very hot oven for a few seconds to glaze them, and serve hot. Pommes a la Lexington {Fried Apples). 8 green cooking apples, i oz. flour, i oz. castor sugar, i egg, cake-crumbs, ground cinnamon, pineapple jam, frying-fat. Peel and core the apples, put them in a steamer or in the oven, and cook till nearly done. When cold, mix the Hour and sugar with a good pinch of cinnamon, and dip each apple into this, then in beaten egg, and roll in cake-crumbs. Fry in hot fat a golden brown, drain, and fill the centre with pineapple jam or grated pineapple. Place a round of red-currant jelly on top of each, dish up, and serve hot or cold. If served cold, chopped wine jelly should be served round the dish. A fruit syrup (pineapple or apricot) should be handed round with the dish in either case. Pommes a la Neige {Snow Apples). 6 sour cooking apples, lemon, 4 to 6 oz. sugar, i tablespoonful cream, V pint milk, 2 whites and 4 yolks of eggs. \^anilla pod or essence for flavouring. Peel, core, and slice the apples, put them in a stew-pan with some lemon-rind, a little water, and two ounces of sugar, cook till tender, and pass through a fine sieve. Add the cream and let cool. Boil up the milk, adding the vanilla fiavouring and enough sugar to sweeten. Whisk the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir the boiling milk gently into this, return to the fire, allow the eggs to bind, then strain. Butter a pie-dish, put in the apple puree, and pour over the prepared custard. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, and arrange it in rock-like pieces over the custard, dredge the whole with sugar, and bake in a fairly hot oven till the egg-whites have acquired a light brown colour. Serve quickly. Casserole de Pommes au Riz {Moulded Apple Stew). 6 cooking apples {Wellington or Newtown), 4 oz. rice, i oz. butter, pint milk, 3 oz. castor sugar, \ teaspoonful of salt, i oz. chopped almonds, i oz. orange-peel, i yolk and i whole egg, i f oz. of glace cherries. Peel and core the apples, put them in a saute-pan with two ounces of sugar and a gill of water, put the lid on, and place in a hot oven until tender. Wash and drain the rice, add it to the milk when nearly boiling, and cook slowly until almost clone. Remove from stove, and add the orange-peel, finely chopped, the cherries, cut into small dice, the almonds, chopped and pounded, the butter, the remaining ounce of sugar, and the salt. Mix well together, adding the eggs at the same time. Have ready a round timbale mould, butter it well, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and line bottom and sides thickly with the prepared rice. Place the apples in the centre, leaving out one for garnish, and fill up with rice. Cover with a buttered paper or cloth, stand it in a deep stew-pan half-filled with boiling water, cover over and cook for an hour. Remove the mould, let stand for a minute, then turn out on a hotHO r.^S IVEE r ENT RE ME TS. 7SI dish, place the apple put aside on top, ornament with a few cherries, and serve with a sweet sauce flavoured with liqueur. Pommes etoufiees a la Polonaise. 4 to 6 sour cooking apples, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam, 2 whites of eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, teaspoonful cinnamon. Peel and core the apples, and cut them across into slices about a cpiarter of an inch thick. Spread the slices with apricot jam f)r marmalade, and pile up in a dome shape on a round silver or fire- proof china dish, previously buttered, and sprinkled with crushed macaroons. Mix about an ounce of sugar with the macaroons and ground cinnamon, and sprinkle the apple shape with this. vVhisk the wdrites of eggs to a stiff froth, acid about twm ounces of sugar and the remainder of macaroons, mask the surface of apples with this, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven from thirty to forty minutes. Serve as soon as done, placing the dish on a napkin on another dish of similar size. Pommes a la Conde {Apples, Conde Stylo. Pare and core six to eight apples, place in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with pow’dered sugar, lemon-juice, and oiled butter, cook them in the oven, and fill the centre with apricot puree. Dish up in the centre of a border of rice cooked in milk and sweetened to taste, ornament with fancifully-cut pieces of angelica, crystal- lised cherries, raisins, and almonds, and serve with apple syrup. Note.—Almost any kind of fruit can be dressed in the above manner, such as peaches, apricots, pears, etc., and are styled “ a la Conde.” Pommes a la Duchesse [Apples, Duchess Style). Peel some large sour cooking apples, scoop out in small rounds by means of a vegetable scoop, cook them in syrup, arrange them neatly on a layer of apple marmalade, spread thickly upon a crofiton of fried bread, insert a small piece of angelica in each round of apples. Serve with a well-reduced apple syrup. Pommes roties a la Polonaise {Baked Apples, Polish Style). Pare and core some apples, cut them across in thin slices, arrange them on a layer of marmalade on a buttered baking-dish, mask over with well reduced syrup, sprinkle with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon, and sugar. Bake in a moderate oven, and send to table in the baking-dish. Pommes a la Portugaise (Apples, Portuguese Style). Pared and cored apples, rubbed over with lemon-juice, stewed ill syrup, flavoured wdth maraschino liqueur ; fill the cavities of the apples with red-currant jelly, and place a glace or a crystallised cherry on top of each. Serve with the syrup. Grisette de Pommes {French Apple Amher). i- lb. apple compote (use sour apples), 4 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, i tea- spoonful grated lemon-rind, 2 oz. sultanas, 3 oz, crushed macaroons or biscuits.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 752 Rub the cooked apples through a hue sieve. Work the yolks of four eggs and the sugar to a cream, add the lemon-rind and the sultanas, and mix with the apple puree. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir carefully into the above preparation, together with the crushed macaroons or savoy biscuits. Have ready a buttered souffle dish, pour in the mixture, dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Serve quickly, and hand round a boat of fruit syrup or wine sauce. Charlotte de Pommes {Apple Charlotte). Cut a stale line-grained sandwich loaf into quarter-inch thick slices, cut these into strips about one-and a-half inch wide and of the same length as the charlotte mould which is to be used for this dish. Cut also a sufficient number of triangular-shaped or narrow kite-shaped slices to cover the bottom of the mould. Grease the inside of the charlotte mould with clarihed butter. Dip the shorter pieces of bread into cool oiled butter and place them, one by one, in the form of a circle at the bottom of the mould, it is best to allow the slices to overlap each other, the points always meeting in the centre. Next arrange the long strips in a similar fashion, by dipping each into oiled butter and hxing them closely against the sides of the mould (these also should overlap each other). Fill the mould with a well-made, fairly stiff apple puree flavoured with sugar, lemon, and ground cinnamon. A small quantity of cake-crumbs can be added if liked. Trim off the strips of bread that overlap the edge of the mould, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish and pour a hot fruit syrup round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. Apple Amber. 3 large apples, 3 oz. sugar, 2 oz. fresh" butter, lemon, 3 yolks of eggs and the whites of 2, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a pinch of ground cloves. Puff-paste trimmings. Candied fruit ; cherries and angelica. Peel and core the apples, cut them into slices, and put in a stew-pan with the sugar and a tablespoonful of water. Simmer gently until tender, pass through a h n e sieve, return the pulp to a clean pan, add the rind (finely grated) o f half a lemon and its juice, the cinna- m o n and clove. Mix thoroughly and add about oz. of butter. WhenHOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 753 hot, stir in the yolks of eggs and let bind. Butter a pie-dish, line the top and edge with pnff-paste, decorate the edges, put the preparation of apples, etc., in the pie-dish, and bake till the mixture is set and the pastry lightly browned. Meanwhile whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a tablespoonfnl of castor sugar, and spread this roughly on top of the pie, sprinkle over some sugar, decorate to taste with candied fruits, and bake in a slow oven long enough to set and colour the surface. Chestnut Amber, 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls chestnut puree (puree cle marrons), 2 eggs, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i oz. castor sugar, i small lemon, i oz. butter. \'auilla flavouring. Boil the milk with the thin rind of half the lemon, and pour over the breadcrumbs ; take out the Icmon-rind after a while. Beat the egg-yolks, sugar, and butter to a cream, and add to it the chest- nut puree. Mix all the ingredients together, add the strained juice of the lemon, and pour into a well buttered pie-dish. Bake till firm and slightly brown in a moderatel}/ hot oven, then cover with a meringue formed of the whites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth and sweetened with sugar. Dredge the top with castor or icing sugar and return to the oven until the meringue is nicely browned. This dish can be served hot or cold. Banana Amber. Proceed the same as directed for “ Apple Amber,” using four large bananas and one sour apple, but only 2 oz. of sugar instead of 3 oz. Pannequets a la Mancelle [Pancakes, Mancdle Style). Fry some thin pancakes, slightly browned, spread them over with a layer of sweet chestnut puree flavoured with maraschino liqueur, roll up, dust with sugar, and glaze them in a hot oven. Dish up and serve hot. FECHES—PEACHES. Peches au Riz meringue [Peaches with mcvingucd Rice). I quart preserved peaches, 6 oz. rice, the rind of I- lemon, 4 eggs, 10 oz. castor sugar, about i quai't milk, i oz. butter, red-currant jelly, i glass maraschino. Wash, blanch, and drain the rice welt, put it in a stew-pan with the milk, boil gently, add 3 oz. sugar, the butter and lemon-rind. Let it cook slowly for about thirty minutes, remove the lemon- rind, work in the yolks of three eggs, put into a buttered timbale mould, turn out immediately on a hot dish, drain the peaches on a hair sieve, and arrange them in a pyramidal form on top of the rice. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir in gently 3 oz. castor sugar, cover the whole completely with a thick layer of this, put the remainder in a paper cornet or forcing-bag, and decorate the surface to taste. Dust well with sugar, and bake a golden colour, which will take about twenty minutes. Cut some diamond shapes of red-currant jelly, and garnish the sides of the 3BTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 754 dish just before serving. Add the liqueur to the syrup, boil up, strain, and serve separately in a sauce-bowl, Peches a la Piemontaise. Halves of peaches filled with almond paste (marzipan), dressed on croutons of Genoise, and then cooked in oven ; served hot with syrup. Dartois de Peches {Peach Meringne). Roll out good puff paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, cut it up into four inch-square pieces. Stamp the paste halfway through with a square pastry-cutter, leaving a three-quarter inch margin all around, brush over with beaten egg-yolk, place on a baking-tin, and bake. When baked, remove the centre portion, fill the opening with chopped preserved peaches flavoured with syrup and mara- schino, and spread over \Htli a meringue mixture. Put half a preserved peach on top of each, and half an almond under the peach. Return to the oven to set the meringue, and serve hot or cold. Savarin a la Moscovienne. Prepare and bake a savarin cake (p. 756) in the usual way. When done, unmould and saturate it well with a hot rum syrup. Place the cake on a round silver- plated dish (the shape of the cake must, of course, be hollow in the centre). Heat up two to three table- spoonfuls of apri- cot marmalade, strain this and add to it a table- spoonful of cura- 90a liqueur, reduce a little and keep hot. Whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir into it the pre- pared marmalade, fill up the centre of the cake with this, and ornament the base of the cake with the same mixture by means of a cornet or forcing-bag with a rose pipe, dredge over with castor sugar and bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes. Decorate the sides with angelica and glace cherries. Send to table hot with a boat of apricot or other fruit sauce.755 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. ANANAS- PINEAPPLES. Ananas a la Mascotte. Cut a large preserved pineapple into neat round slices, and cook them for a few minutes in a well-tlavonred syrup, then take up and drain the slices on a sieve. In a similar manner cut some fairly hrm Genoise or Savoy cake into slices, the same size and thickness as the pineapple. Sprinkle the cake with syrup, flavoured with benedictine, or other liqueur, then build up a pineapple shape with both the cake slices and pineapple slices on a flat round dish, spreading each layer with a thin coating of apricot marmalade. Mask the whole with dissolved marmalade, and by means of a forcing-bag and plain tube cover with meringue. Bake in a slow oven for about twenty minutes to set the meringue, and to warm the contents of the dish thoroughly. Surround the shape with fancifully-cut and baked leaves of wafer pastry, sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts, and surmount with a neat little bouquet of angelica, and serve with a nice-flavoured pineapple sauce. Flan d’Ananas a la Neige [French Pineapple Tart). Half a preserved pineapple, 2 oz. castor sugar, about i lb. of short crust, the white of 2 eggs, confectioner’s custard. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and line a pastry ring (a flan ring six inches in diameter) with it, place it on a baking-sheet, fill up with dried peas or rice, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven, and remove the peas. Cut sufficient thin slices of pineapple to till the paste crust, arrange the fruit in one close overlapping layer in the baked crust, pour over a thin coat of confectioner’s custard, just enough to cover the fruit, and bake for ten minutes in a fairly warm oven. Meanwhile beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix with the castor sugar, spread the meringue mixture quickly and smoothly over the surface, dredge with sugar and a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and return to the oven long enough to brown slightly. This dish may be served hot or cold. Parfait d’Ananas a la Tostini. I good-sized pineapple, fresh or preserved. 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, ^ gill confectioner's custard, flavoured with maraschino, a border- mould of Genoise cake, almonds and pistachios for decoration. If a fresh pineapple is used, peel it thinly. A preserved pine- apple is, however, more suitable for this dish. Cut a small slice off the bottom to make it stand firmly, and by means of a paste- cutter or sharp knife cut out the centre portion of the pineapple. Pound the trimmings in a mortar, pass through a sieve, flavour with a teaspoonful of maraschino, and keep till wanted. Cut the hollowed-out pineapple across into half-inch slices, and fix them together in the original shape by spreading some confectioner’s custard between the slices. Place this in the centre of a GGioise border cake, either on a baking-sheet or, better, into a round silver dish. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and cover the outside of the pineapple with it. Mix the remaindei'THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 756 of beaten egg with the fruit puree, and with this hll up the centre of the pineapple. Bake in a hot oven till nicely browned and hot through. Decorate the dish tastefully with strips of blanched and peeled almonds and pistachios. Serve hot with pineapple syrup well flavoured with maraschino and previously heated. Savarin a 1’Ananas {Pineapple Savarin). Prepare and bake a border-shaped savarin {see “ Bor dure Savarin ”), place it on a sieve, and soak it well with maraschino syrup. Cook sufficient slices of pineapple to All the centre of the border, in the same kind of syrup. Dish up the savarin and fill the centre tastefully with pineapple slices, decorate with glace cherries, sauce over the whole with a fairly thick syrup, flavoured with maraschino and apricot marmalade. The dish is then ready for serving, and should be sent to table hot, but when preferred it can be served cold. Apricots or peaches are frequently served in a savarin border, the mode of preparation being the same as for pineapple savarin. BORDURES, TIMBALES, ETC. Bordure de Fruits a la Nationale. Prepare some peaches, apricots, grapes, strawberries, and slices of pineapple, blanch them in syrup, peel the apricots and peaches, drain on a hair sieve. Have ready a Savarin border, dish up, dress the fruit in the centre, ornament with fancy-cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, and citron peel. Reduce the syrup until thick with a glass of maraschino, and pour over the fruit. This dish can be served hot or cold as desired. Bordure Saxonnaise a la Kohler. 3 eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Kohler’s chocolate, i gill milk, r vanilla pod, 3 oz. brown breadcrumbs, 2 oz. cake-crumbs, i oz. chopped almonds, giil cream, whipped, chocolate sauce. Cream the sugar and butter together, then work in one by one the egg-yolks. Melt the chocolate in the oven, and stir it into the above mixture when soft. Boil up the milk with the vanilla, and pour on to the bread and cake-crumbs. Add also the chopped almonds, cover and let stand for half an hour. Amalgamate both mixtures, taking out the vanilla last of all. Whisk the whites of egg stiffly, and fold in to the mixture lightly. Pour this into a buttered border mould, cover with buttered jiaper, and steam for I If hours. Unmould on to a hot dish, pour a little chocolate sauce round and over the border. Fill the centre of the latter with whipped and sweetened cream. Serve with a boat of chocolate sauce. Bordure Savarin {Savarin Border). Sift 2 oz. flour into a small basin, form a hole in the centre, dilute k oz. German yeast with lukewarm milk, add this to the flour, make a light dough, and set it aside to rise in a warm place. Next sift 6 oz. flour into a large basin, add 2 oz. sugar, 3 oz. warmHOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 757 butter, a little milk, and four eggs (two at a time), beat u]) well lV)r about ten minutes, then add the prepared yeast, together with a tahlespoonful of sweet cream. Work it again for a few minutes, and put it into a border-mould it will rather more than half-till. The mould must be well buttered, and the interior sprinkled with line sugar and ground rice or finely-shredded almonds or cocoanut. Cover the mould, and let stand in a warm place, to rise, from one to two hours, by which time the contents should have risen to fill the mould. Bake in a hot oven. Baba au Rhum. I- lb. sifted flour, a pinch of salt, rather more than I oz. yeast, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. butter, 5 eggs, if oz. cleaned currants, i gill cream, about it gill milk. Put four ounces of the flour in a small basin, make a well in the centre, put in this the yeast diluted with a little tepid milk, work it to a smooth dough, cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place. Put the remainder of the flonr in a large basin, make a well in the centre, add the salt and sugar, work in the eggs, the butter (melted), and a little milk, and beat for fifteen minutes. When the dough has well risen, add it to the above, knead well for another fifteen minutes, put in the cream (just tepid), also the currants, and mix thoroughly. Ha\’e ready six to eight small or one large well-buttered baba-mould (these are cylindrical-shaped copper moulds). Sprinkle the bottom and sides with a few currants, let rise for fifteen minutes in a warm place, and bake in a moderately- heated oven. When done, turn out on to a dish. Baste well, while hot, with rum syrup, dish up, sauce over witli the syruji, and serve hot. Timbale a la Bardaloiise. 4 oz. flour, 8 to 10 chestnuts, f glass sherry, i gill milk, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam, } glass maraschino, t- oz. German yeast, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 eggs, lemon. 2 inches vanilla pod, fruit for decoration. Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, put the yeast (previously diluted with a little tepid water) in the centre, mix with a little of the flour to form a sponge, and allow it to rise. When the sponge is risen work in about one gill of tepid milk, i- oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, and two yolks of eggs. Work the whole (flour and licpiid) for about twenty minutes, then put it in a warm place to rise. As'soon as the paste is sufficiently risen three-parts fill a well-buttered and floured border-mould, allow it to rise again, and bake in a moderate oven. In the meantime prepare a syrup by boiling the loaf sugar with 1- gill of water, the juice of half a lemon, one glass of sherry, and the vanilla pod. Skim, and let it infuse well. Remove the vanilla, and keep the syrnp hot. Peel and cook the chestnuts until tender, rub through a sieve, add 2 oz. of castor sugar, mix with a glass of maraschino. Whisk the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the puree. Turn out the border when baked, trim, and saturate well with the pre- pared syrup, then place it on a dish, fill the centre with the puree,758 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. giving it a dome-shaped appearance. Dredge liberally with castor sugar, and bake well in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Put the remainder of the syrup in a stew-pan, add the apricot jam and a little water, reduce, strain, and coat the border. Decorate with fruit and send to table. Timbale a la Pompadour. Prepare sufficient “ baba-paste ” {see “ Baba au Rhum,” p. 757) to fill a well-buttered copper pudding-mould, bake it in the usual way, turn out on a sieve, when cold, cut off the top carefully, scoop out the centre, and fill with a macedoine of fruit. Reduce the syrup well with as much apricot marmalade and a little kirschwasser as will make a stiff syrup, pour some of this over the fruit, put the top on it, and turn over on a dish. Have ready some small rounds of apples, some cooked in white and others in red syrup, also a nice peach. Ornament the top with the fruit, garnish with angelica and dried cherries. Glaze over with the reduced syrup, warm in the oven, and serve. Timbale a la St.-Petersbourg. 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. ground almonds, i glass kirschwasser, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. best Vienna flour, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot or quince marma- lade, the whites of 2 eggs, i oz. of pistachio nuts. Break six eggs into a copper egg-bowl, add the sugar, beat with a whisk over a very slow fire for about fifteen or twenty minutes, then add the ground almonds, and beat a little longer. Melt the butter, mix it and the flour alternately and in small quantities with the above, and add the liqueur (kirsch). Fill a well-buttered mould with the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on to a sieve and let cool. Mean- while beat the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to it the pistachios, previously peeled, blanched, and chopped, and the marmalade previously warmed. Place the cake on a dish, and fill the centre with the white of egg preparation piled up high, and dredge with a little castor sifgar. Bake in a hot oven long enough to heat the cake and brown the surface. Pour some hot rum or other syrup round the base of the dish, and serve hot. Timbales aux Fruits a la Metropole. Mix 4 oz. butter (melted) with about ^ lb. brioche paste (p. 137). Put this into a buttered charlotte mould, and allow it to stand in a warm place for about thirty minutes. Bake it in a moderately- heated oven. Meanwhile prepare a compote or macedoine of peaches, prunes, pears, or any other fresh or preserved fruit. If the former are used, cook them in syrup. Drain the fruit, reduce the syrup with some apricot marmalade, and mix again with the mace- doine of fruit, flavoured with a glass of kirsch. Scoop out the centre of the baked cake, and fill tlie hollow with the prepared fruit. Decorate the top with pistachios, glace fruit, etc., and serve not too hot.7S9 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. Timbale a la Sicilienne. Prepare a brioche paste crust timbale as directed on page 137, and fill it with layers of cooked and sweetened rice and fruit, previously stewed. Serve hot or cold with a suitably llavoured fruit syrup. Timbales de Semoule a la Portugaise. I pint milk, 3 oz. semolina or line-grain liorador, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 whole eggs and i white of egg, i bottle or tin of apricots, angelica, glace cherries. Vanilla pod for flavouring, a few almonds cut in halves or shreds, 2 table- spoonfuls whipped cream, maraschino syrup for sauce. Put the vanilla into the milk for half an hour before boiling, then boil with the milk and take it out. Bring the milk to the boil again, stir in the semolina, boil for several minutes while stirring. Remove from the fire, work in the sugar, the yolks and one white of egg. Whip the remaining whites stiffly and stir into the mixture when cool, adding the whipped cream and a few drops of maraschino liqueur at the same time. Turn into six or eight small buttered timbale moulds, and steam for half an hour. Warm up six to eight halves of apricots, some angelica cut into leaves, almonds, and halves of cherries. Turn out the timbales on a hot dish, place half an apricot on top of each, decorate them tastefully with cherries, angelica, and almonds, pour over a nicely-prepared apricot syrup flavoured with maraschino, and serve. Timbales de Peches Marie-Louise. This dish consists of small timbale shapes of Genoise cakes, hollowed out and filled with peach puree mixed with whisked egg- white, baked and masked with marmalade ; halves of peaches, glazed, placed on top of each, and decorated with glace cherries cooked in kirsch-flavoured syrup. Meringuage, Sicilienne. 12 to 14 meringue shells (small), 2 oz. strawberry or raspberry pulp, 1-]- pint whipped cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, glace cherries. Boil the sugar with a little water to the crack (about 300 degrees Fahrenheit). Grease the outside of a charlotte mould, and stand, opening downwards, on a plate, dip the sides of each meringue in the boiled sugar, and place them in rows against the side of the mould, piling one row on the other until the top of the mould is reached. Carefully unmould, and put the shape on to a dish. Whip the cream, add the fruit pulp, sweeten to taste, fill the centre, garnish neatly with some glace cherries, and, if liked, with a few fancifully-cut leaves of angelica. Serve quickly. If preferred, the top of the cream may be covered with meringue shells. Bonnes Douches a la Washington. 5 blood oranges, 2 Bartlett pears, 2 peaches, 2 slices pineapple, 2 apricots, glace cherries or other fruit in equal parts, i gill claret, gill chartreuse, ^ lb. powdered macaroons, meringue mixture. Stew the fruit as for compote if fresh fruit is used, but bottled fruit will do if the former is not procurable, cut the fruit into pieces about the size of a small cherry. Cut the oranges in halves, care-760 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. fully remove the pulp, so that the skin remains intact, rub the pulp through a sieve, and add to it the wine and liqueur, and thicken this syrup with macaroons. Mix in the fruit, hll up the orange- rinds, smooth over with the blade of a knife, cover the surface with meringue mixture, ornament to taste, pyramid fashion, dust with sugar, and bake in the oven a golden brown. Dish up, and serve quickly. Charlotte de Cerises {Cherry Charlotte). ^ lb. cooking cherries, the rind of a lemon, 4 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, I teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, about i-^- lb. Genoise cake or German zwieback. Stone the cherries, put them in a stew-pan with very little water, add the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the cinnamon, also two ounces of butter, steam over the hre gently until the cherries are tender, shaking the pan from time to time. If Gtmoise cake is used, cut it into neat slices, and bake both sides a golden colour. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered charlotte mould with these or German zwiebacks, each piece should be dipped in oiled butter so as to make them hold fast, fill up the mould alternately with baked biscuits (GGioise) or zwiebacks and the cherries, lay them in tightly, sprinkle a little oiled butter over the top, and bake for half an hour in the oven. Serve with kirsch syrup. Charlotte a Tlmperiale. Fill a well-buttered plain charlotte mould with Genoise paste, and bake it evenly in a fairly hot oven. When done, unmould, cut off the top, and remove the soft part of the interior. Place the cake-crust on a dish and hll it with a rich cream composed of six egg-yolks, one pint of cream or milk (boiling), half an ounce of corn- flour, four ounces of sugar, a quarter-gill of apricot pulp, and one small glass of rum. Replace the top and mask the whole with a meringue mixture—i.e. two wdiites of egg wLisked till stiff and sweetened with one ounce of castor sugar. Garnish with glace fruits and bake in a slow oven for thirty minutes. Serve hot with a fruit syrup (apricot or peach). OMELETTES-OMELETS. Omelette sucree [Sweet Omelet). A real French omelet should never be ready before it is required for table. The guests should wait for an omelet. Fresh eggs and fresh butter are indispensable for making a really good omelet. Break six to eight eggs into a basin, add to them a tablespoonful of cream or milk, beat well with a fork for four or hve minutes and add a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a clean omelet pan, when hot (not burning hot or smoking) pour in the beaten eggs, stir with a spoon over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set, then shake the pan and fold the contents tow'ards the side opposite the handle of the pan. Let it take colour, i.e. a golden brown (if jam is desired, put it in the centre of the omelet before folding). Give it the761 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. shape of a cushion. Turn out quickly on a hot dish, dredge over with fine castor sugar, decorate the top by means of a red-hot iron, and serve at once. Omelette a la Charlotte. 6 eggs, 1 lemon, 2 oz. castor sugar, i oz. flour, ]- gill fresh cream, -1- table- spoonful orange-flower water, 2 oz. butter, apple marmalade. Break the eggs and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the yolks with the sugar, add the lemon-rind, chopped hnely, and orange-flower water. W'hisk the whites of eggs and mix them and the flour carefully with the yolks. Whip the cream until stiff and add to the mixture. Melt the butter in two large omelet pans, and divide the mixture between them, let it set over the fire and then pnt them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes to finish cooking. Heat the apple marmalade, spread a thick layer over each omelet, roll them lightly, dust with sugar, and serve. Omelette a la Celestine. 10 eggs, 3 oz, crushed macaroons, 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar, 3 kinds of jam, a little cream, 2 oz, butter, a pinch of .salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and cream, beat them up well, and mix with the sugar and macaroons. Make six omelets of equal size with the mixture, in the centre of each jiair insert different jam (about a tablespoonful), roll up, dust them over with sugar, and glaze with the salamander or hot iron. Cut each in two, dish up in a circle, and serve quickly. Omelette aux Fraises. Prepare an omelet with the necessary number of eggs in the usual manner, just before folding it arrange a la}’er of compote of strawberries (previously drained) in the centre of the omelet. Fold it and allow it to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish. Sprinkle over with castor sugar and mark the surface with a red-hot skewer, pour some strawberry syrup, flavoured with a little maraschino liqneur, round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. Omelette au Rhum {Rum Omelet). ■ 6 eggs, 2 oz, butter, small glass rum, i tablespoonful of castor sugar and I tablespoonful of cream, a pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and sugar, beat up well together with the cream and a little rum. Melt tlie butter in an omelet pan, when hot, pour in the eggs, etc. Stir, cook, fold, and brown the omelet to a light colour, turn carefully on to a dish, dust with sugar, pour the rum round the omelet, light it, and serve quickly. Omelette soufflee (Puffed Omelet). 4 yolks of eggs, 6-8 whites of eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, flavouring. Put the yolks and sugar into a basin and work them well to a cream, add the flavouring and, if liked, a dessertspoonful of cornflour. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix carefully with tlie yolks, turn into a buttered plated baking-dish, pile iq) as high762 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. as possible, shape the sides with the blade of a knife, and make a deep incision in the centre. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Dust with sugar, and serve. Omelette soufflee en Surprise. A thin piece of Genoise pastry for foundation, the whites of 3 eggs, i yolk of egg, 2 oz. fine castor sugar, vanilla flavour, i pint cream or water ice. Trim the Genoise pastry to an oval or round shape, according to the shape of dish to be used. Scoop out the centre and fix it on the dish. Cream the yolk of egg with one ounce and a half of sugar, add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and whisk them in an egg-bowl till quite stiff. Add the flavouring essence or vanilla sugar to the creamed egg-yolk, and work in gradually the stiff whites of eggs. The ice must be well frozen and placed in the cavity of the Genoise. Cover completely with the above prepara- tion, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, garnish with angelica strips and glace cherries, dredge with sugar, and bake in a fierce oven for four to five minutes. Serve at once. Much of the success of this dish depends upon the swiftness of the operator. Omelette SoufUee a la Stephanie. Prepare a souffle mixture with 3 egg-yolks, i oz. vanilla sugar, and 6 whites of eggs. Cut out an oval shape of Genoise cake hollowed out in the centre, sprinkle it with a little kirsch, and fix it on a dish by means of a little marmalade or batter. Fill the centre of the cake shape with peach cream ice, mixed with slices of fresh peaches, cover the whole with the souffle mixture, dredge with icing sugar, and bake in a sharp oven to a golden colour. Serve the omelet immediately it leaves the oven. Omelette soufflee au Chocolat. Proceed the same as directed in “ Omelette Soufflee,” omitting the cornflour, and add in its place a tablet of grated chocolate (unsweetened preferred). Bake as directed, and serve as soon as it leaves the oven. Sabot d’Oranges au Curasao. Peel two small seedless oranges, remove the white pith, cut them into slices crossways, and cook them in syrup flavoured with cura^oa for about ten minutes. Select about two dozen of the best slices, drain them on a sieve, with these line the bottom of a plain charlotte mould, previously coated with caramel sugar. Three-parts fill up the mould with layers of thin slices of Genoise or %ponge cake, and thin slices of apple, and between each layer spread a little apple puree flavoured with ground cinnamon and rum. Have ready the following preparation : Boil np \ pint of milk, sweetened with \ oz. sugar, and stir in J- oz. cornflour, pre- viously blended with a little cream, cook for ten minutes whilst stirring, then whisk in four egg-yolks and a little vanilla flavouring. Allow to cool, and add the stiffly whisked whites of two eggs and pour into the mould, and steam or bake for three quarters of ah hour in a fairly hot oven. Serve hot, with orange syrup made withHOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 763 the remainder of cooked orange slices, rubbed through a sieve, re-heated and flavoured, or else serve it with a boat of whipped cream flavoured with orange. This dish is also delicious if served cold. Surprises d’Oranges. Cut eight oranges across in halves. Squeeze out the juice very gently so as not to break the rind, by means of a teaspoon remo\’e as much as possible of the pulp and pith. Strain the orange juice, and add to it the strained jnice of three lemons and it- gill of syrup. Freeze this in the usual manner. When sufficiently frozen, fill each or as many halves of oranges as possible, cover the top of each with an “ omelette soufflee ” mixture. This must be done very carefully indeed, so as to completely cover the ice. Bake them in a very quick oven just long enough to brown the surface. Place each in a wineglass, dish up, and send to table immediately. Rissoles de Cerises {Chcrry^ Rissoles). Stone some cooking cherries, and cook them in a little syrup till done. Roll out some puff-paste, stamp out the required number of rounds, put a dessertspoonful of cherry compote in the centre of each, wet the edge of the paste and fold over, like ordinary rissoles. Bake in a fairly hot oven, roll in castor sugar previously mixed with powdered cinnamon and vanilla sugar. Dish up, and serve. Croquettes de Cerises {Cherry Croquets). lb. cooking cherries (sour), li lb. cake-crumbs (crushed linger biscuits or Genoise), 4 oz. sugar, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, i egg, crushed rusks, fat for frying, 2 glasses noyeau. Stone the cherries, put them in a stew-pan with the sugar and a little water, cook until tender, strain off a little of the juice, add the cake-crumbs and liqueur, grated lemon-rind, and cinnamon, spread the mixture on a dish and let cool. Make up into cork shapes, brush over with egg, roll in the crushed rusks or baked and crushed slices of Genoise cake, when set, egg, and crumb again. Fry in clarified butter or fat to a golden colour, strain on a cloth or paper, dust with sugar, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, garnish top of each with a glace cherry or angelica, and serve. Croquettes de Riz {Rice Croquets). lb. Carolina rice, pint milk, i oz. butter, 3 yolks of eggs, i whole egg-, 4 oz. castor sugar, lemon-rind, breadcrumbs, frying fat, angelica. Wash, blanch, and drain the rice, put it in a stew-pan with the milk, butter, and the rind of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, cover, simmer slowly until tender, remove the lemon-rind, work in one by one the yolks of eggs and the sugar. Stir over the fire until set, and turn on to a plate or dish. When cold, divide into eight equal portions, shape into croquettes (heart or pear shapes), brush over with beaten egg, crumb, fry golden brown in hot fat, drain on paper, dredge with sugar, and insert a strip of angelica in the end of each croquette. Dish up, and serve with apricot syrup or lemon sauce.764 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Precieuses de Praises. 3 eggs, 2 oz. flour, \ oz. ground almonds, J lb. small ripe strawberries, \ oz. icing sugar, 1-2 sheets of rice paper, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, \ tea- spoonful vanilla essence, ^ gill syrup, i white of egg, angelica. Break the eggs one by one into a basin containing the sugar, whisk till quite frothy over hot water, then stir in the butter icing sugar, and cover the surface of the cakes with it. Bake for a few minutes in a fairly sharp oven. Insert a little sail, made of rice paper and angelica, in each. Dish Tip and serve. Baignes de Praises {Strawberry Baignes). 4 oz. castor sugar, 5 yolks of eggs, 4 whites of eggs, 2 oz. flour, i oz. corn- flour, a few drops of vanilla essence, i whole egg, | lb. small ripe straw- berries, I tablespoonful icing sugar, frying-fat. Cream the sugar with the egg-yolks, whisk the whites to a stiff froth, flavour with the vanilla, and add them and the flour and cornflour alternately and in small quantities to the other ingredients. Ihit the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and force out small bouchee shapes on to a buttered baking-sheet. Dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Remove the bouchees carefully from the sheet and scoop out the centre of each, fill them with the picked strawberries, sweetened with icing sugar, and place each two together with marmalade. Dip in beaten egg, roll lightly in cake-crumbs or line breadcrumbs, plunge into hot frying fat, and fry for a few minutes. Take up, drain well, sprinkle with vanilla sugar. Dish up and serve hot. Beignets de Praises {Strawberry Fritters). Select about one pound of large strawberries, remove the small leaves, but leave on the stalks, place them in a basin, sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon. Have ready a small quantity of light frying batter. Warm some peach marmalade, strain, add a small glass of liqueur brandy, dip the strawberries into the marmalade, roll in powdered sponge cakes or powdered macai'oons, immerse each strawberry in the batter, di'op them gently into some boiling fat or butter, and fry till crisp and nicely coloured. Drain, and dish up on a folded napkin, dust with sugar, and serve quickly. Note.—For method of preparing yeast batter see page 135. (melted), the flour (sifted), and the almonds. Fill up as many buttered boat-shaped moulds as nray be required, and bake them in a moderate oven. Unmould and scoop out a portion of the centre of each. Cook the straw- berries to a compote with the syrup, fill the little boat-shaped cakes with this. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, add the BEIGNETS FRITTERS.HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 76s Beignets de Pommes {Apple Fritters). 3 or 4 large sour cooking apples, castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful ground cinna- mon, i dessertspoonful brandy, i dessertspoonful kirsch, frying batter, clarified fat or lard. Prepare the batter as directed on p. 135. Peel the apples thinly, cut into slices about :}- inch thick, cut out the cores by means of a column - cutter. Put the slices on a plate, pom- over the brandy and kirsch, cover over with another plate, and shake to- gether for a few minutes. D i p the slices of apple into the batter, fry a golden colour in hot fat, and drain on a cloth. Mix a little ground cinnamon with castor sugar, sprinkle it over the fritters, dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Beignets de Groseilles vertes {Gooseberry Fritters). K pint of large goo.seberries, i white aud 2 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 2 oz. flour, 2 table.spoonfuls water, castor sugar, a pinch of salt clarified butter or lard. Sift the flour into a basin. Add a pinch of salt, stir in gradually the yolks of eggs, cream, and water, and work into a smooth batter. Let it stand for half an hour. Pick the fruit, beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix with the batter. Heat the butter or lard, dip the gooseberries into the batter, drop into the hot butter or lard, and fry a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle with castor sugar, dish up, and serve. Beignets de Reines-Claude {Greengage Fritters). Proceed the same as described for Strawberry Fritters (p. 764), using ripe but firm greengages, previously stoned, in place of strawberries. Beignets de Cerises Parisienne. Prepare a light frying batter and allow it to stand for an hour or longer. Stone the required quantity of cherries, put them on a SOU]) jrlate, pour over enough syrup and kirsch or maraschino to flavour and cover. After filling the cavity of each cherry with a little soft almond paste insert a small wooden skewer, then dip into frying batter and drop into hot fat, being careful not to fry too many at the same time. When of a golden colour, take them up, drain carefully, remove the wooden skewers, and insert in its place a stalk of angelica. Dredge with fine sugar, and pile the fritters in a nouille croustade-shaped basket. Serve hot-/66 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Beignets d’Abricot ( Apricot Fritters). 8 apricots, -i- pint syrup, yeast batter (p. 135), fi'ying fat, castor sugar, and ground cinnamon. Cut the apricots in halves and stone them, cook them in the syrup until tender ; cool, and drain on a sieve. Cover the fruit with yeast batter, and place them on to buttered strips of paper, let them stand for half an hour in a warm place, then drop them into plenty of boiling fat. Fry to a golden colour, take up, drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, mix with finely- ground cinnamon, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin. Beignets d’Ananas {Pineapple Fritters). 6 round slices preserved pineapple, inch thick, d pint creme patisserie (confectioner’s custard), i small glass of kirsch or maraschino, frying batter (p. 135), frying-fat, vanilla sugar. Slice the pineapple, trim the slices with a round cutter, put them on a plate, and pour over the kirschwasser or maraschino. When the pieces have been immersed for ten minutes take them up, drain on a sieve, cover each with creme or confectioner’s custard. Let this set well, then dip them in light frying batter mixed with a little cream, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dredge with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve. A boat of pineapple syrup, heated, and flavoured with kirsch or maraschino, should be handed round with the fritters. Beignets de Bananes {Banana Fritters). Select some bananas, not too ripe, peel them, cut them length- ways into pieces about two and a half inches long, put in a deep dish, and sprinkle over with a glass of kirschwasser. Prepare a batter, dip the bananas into this, and drop into very hot clarified butter, fry them a nice colour, drain on paper or cloth, dredge with castor sugar flavoured with a little ground cinnamon, dish up, and serve hot, Beignets a la Torrijos. 2 French dinner-rolls, pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. loaf sugar, i glass maraschino, ground cinnamon or nutmeg, clarified butter for frying. Rasp the crust from the rolls, cut them into round slices, about quarter inch thick, and put into a dish. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the milk and liqueur, and about half an ounce of sugar. Stir and pour over the slices of bread and let soak for about fifteen minutes. Drain the pieces and fry a golden colour in the clarified butter. Drain well on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with castor sugar previously mixed with enough ground cinnamon or nutmeg to flavour. Dish up, and serve hot. Beignets au Moka {Coffee Fritters). Cut two or three milk rolls into slices, place them in a large pie-dish, and pour over enough strongly-made coffee to soak them. Make a light frying batter, allow it to stand for at least one hour. Beat up two yolks of eggs, mix them with a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, pour this over the slices of milk rolls. Dip each slice into the frying batter and fry a golden colour in very hot fat or lard.HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. 767 Take up and drain the fritters. Dredge tliem with castor or icing sugar, and dish nj). Serve hot with a sance-boat full of cherry syrnp or sauce to be handed round along with the dish. Beignets a la Milanaise {Milanese Fritters). Put into a stew-pan half a pint of milk, one ounce of loaf sugar, and half a vanilla pod, and boil up. Stir in whilst boiling two ounces of semolina, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, then add half an ounce of fresh butter, and cook slovvdy for twenty minutes. Take out the vanilla, add two yolks of eggs, i oz. chopped almonds, and the finely grated rind of half a lemon, re-heat and spread the mixture on to a buttered tin. Let it cool, stamp out into rings about the size of apple rings, brush over with liquid ajnicot jam mixed with a little maraschino. Dij) the rings thus prepared into a light frying batter, and fry a golden brown in clarified butter. Take up, drain' the fritters, dish up, dredge with icing sugar, and serve with hot chocolate sauce. Beignets a la Polonaise {Polish Fritters). Make ten to twelve thin pancakes in the usual manner. S]>read one side of each with a thin layer of apricot marmalade, roll up, cut off the ends, and divide in two. Egg each piece and I'oll in a mixture of breadcrumbs and crushed macaroons. Fry them in deep fat, clarified lard or butter for preference, to a golden colour, take up, drain, sprinkle with castor sugar flavoured with a little ground cinnamon, dish up, and serve hot or cold. Beignets souffles a la Vanille ( Vanilla Fritters). Prepare some choux-paste, add a teaspoonful of castor sugar and a few drops of \-anilla essence. Have ready some hot lard 0 r clarified butter, drop in the paste with a dessert or tea spoon, fry (rather slowly at first) until a nice golden colour is obtained. Drain well, dredge with castor or icing sugar, and serve hot. Beignets a la Tyrolienne, Prepare a choux-paste mixture (p. 135), put it in a forcing-bag with a star tube or pipe, and force out some round or oblong shapes on to an oiled baking-sheet. Drop these into hot fat and fry a golden colour. Drain, brush over with apricot marmalade.768 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. arid roll in castor sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon. Dish up, and serve with a hot or cold vanilla sauce. Beignets de Crepes {Pancake Fritters). 2 oz. flour, gill milk, i egg, i lemon, a pinch of salt, vanilla sugar, 4 oz. butter or lard for frying. Sift the flour into a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and stir the milk in gradually, beat up well and stir in the yolk of an egg. Grate half the rind of the lemon, and add it together with a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix gently with the above. Heat up the butter (clarified) or lard in a frying or omelet pan, when quite hot drop in the mixture by means of a dessertspoon, and fry a golden colour. Too many must not be fried at one time. As soon as they are fried drain on a cloth or paper, dredge well with vanilla sugar, dish itp, and serve hot with a lemon sauce or sauce citron. Crepes {Pancakes). 4 oz. of flour, I whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, -V oz. oiled butter, i t gill of milk, a pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the salt, beat up the eggs, and stir gradually into the flour, add a little of the milk and beat to a smooth paste, then pour the remainder of the milk in gradually, and the oiled butter, mix well, strain through a pointed strainer into a jug. Let the batter stand for some time before using. To Fry Pancakes, To fry pancakes successfully proceed as follows ; Put a very small piece of butteri in a pancake pan, when hot pour in a small quantity, say two tablespoonfuls, of the batter, to barely cover the bottom of the pan. Fry over a clear fire till one side is coloured, then toss it over and fry the other side, when done turn on to a clean board, dust with sugar, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over, roll up or fold, and serve up on a hot dish. Pannequets au Confiture {French Pancakes). 3 eggs, I oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. flour, the grated rind of a iemon and its juice, a pinch of salt, i pint milk, clarified butter for frying, 3 tablespoonfuls of jam. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and beat to a cream. Add the flour, lemon-rind and juice, a pinch of salt, beat the mixture for ten minutes, adding gradually the eggs and milk. Continue beating for another ten minutes after the flour is added, and let the mixture stand for about an hour. Put a little butter in an omelet-pan, pour in about a cupful of the pancake mixture, bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, when done, turn out on a board dredged with sugar, spread some hot jam on one half, and turn over the other half. Repeat until the batter is used. Creme brulee {Burnt Cream). i pint milk, pint cream, i dessertspoonful creme de riz, 6 yolks of eggs, i l oz. vanilla sugar, a pinch of ground cinnamon.769 HOT SWEET ENTREMETS. Mix the creme de riz with a little cream. Boil up the milk and cream in a stew-pan, add one ounce of vanilla sugar, stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz. Whisk the wlade over a gentle fire to bind the eggs, but the mixture must not boil or it may cinxlle. Pour into a well-buttered souffle dish, sprinkle over a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover tlie surface. Brown the surface in a brisk oven. If the surface is not browned at the end of ten minutes, hold the dish under a sala- mander for a few seconds. Note.—Cornflour, potato-flour, or Vienna flour may be used in place of crMne de riz. Creme Zabajone {Mexican Custard). 8 3^olks of eggs, 4 oz. moist sugar or granulated sugar, X pint marsala. Beat the egg-yolks and sugar till quite light and creamy. Add the wine, and place the vessel containing the mixture over a pan of boiling water. Stir till it thickens. Serve hot in small glasses, and sprinkle a pinch of ground cinnamon on the top of each. Croutes au Madere. Various kinds of compote of fruit may be used for this dish. Dress the fruit tastefully on fried bread or cake crofites or croutons. Garnish with angelica and glace cherries, and ])our hot fruit syrup flavoured with Madeira, kirsch or rum, over the dish. Croutes a la Normande. Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon-juice, and sherry, dressed on fried croutes (crusts) made from bread or GGioise cake. Coat the whole with dissolved peach or apricot marmalade. .Serve with hot fruit syru]). .(Eufs vanilles a la Neige. .[ lb. castor sugar, i plat milk, i gill cream, 6 whites of eggs, vanilla essence or pod. Boil up the milk, cream, sugar, and vanilla in a saute-pan, and beat the whites of eggs to a still froth, and drop them, a shaped tablespoonful at a time (like quenelles), into the boiling milk ; dip the spoon into boiling water each time it is used, and avoid putting in too many at a time. Turn the shajfes as they are being poached, each will take from three to four minutes to cook. When done, arrange them nicely in a deep dish. Make a custard of the milk and yolks of eggs, strain it over and round the quenelles, and serve. Dattes farcies frites {Fried Stuffed Dates). Select some large dates, remove the stones, and fill each with a fairly firm confectioner’s custard flavoured with vanilla. Brush over with beaten egg, and roll in crushed macaroons. Fr}/ in clarified butter a golden colour, drain them on white blotting-paper to remove the grease. Dish up in little paper cases, and serve with a cold vanilla cream. Pain Perdu {French Bread Fritters). X stale tiu-loaf, i quart milk, i pod of vanilla, 2 eggs, teaspoonful ground cinnamon, castor sugar, frying lard or clarified butter. 3C770 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Cut the bread into slices about half an inch thick, trim off the crust, cut into fancy shapes, round, diamond or half-moons. Boil up the milk and vanilla, sweeten to taste, when nearly cold, pour over the pieces of bread and let them soak. Beat up two whites and one yolk of eggs, add a pinch of salt, immerse the pieces of bread, fry in hot butter or lard to a light colour, drain on a paper or cloth, sprinkle with castor sugar mi.xed with the ground cinna- mon. Dish np in a pile and serve with a boat of custard, made with the remaining yolk of egg, the milk, and a teaspoonful of cornflour. Baked Bananas. Select large and not over-ripe bananas for this dish. Strip off about a third of the skin lengthways, and loosen the remainder of the skin from the fruit by means of a teaspoon. Lay the banana in a buttered saute-pan or baking-dish, place a few very small pieces of butter on the top of each, and besprinkle freely with castor sugar, pour over each about half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot oven. Dish up neatly, and serve hot. Gaufres a la Carnival {Carnival Wafers). 2 eggs, I oz. castor sugar, \ gill cream, a pinch of salt, i oz. fresh butter (oiled), \ lb. flour (sifted), clarified butter for frying. Whisk the eggs, sugar, butter, and cream together, add the salt, and work into a fairly stiff paste with the flour. Knead it well, cover with a cloth, allow the paste to stand for half an hour, then roll it out in small portions on a floured board as thin as paper. Cut out small rounds by the help of a saucer and a pastry wheel, and fry them in clarified butter to a golden colour. When done, drain well on a cloth or paper, and dredge with cinnamon or vanilla fiavoured sugar. Dish up, and serve hot or cold with vanilla or chocolate sauce. Cremes frites {Cream Fritters), Prepare a fairly firm frangipane or confectioner’s custard (p. 137). Spread it evenly on a dish, and put on the ice or in a cool place to set. Stamp out some round shapes with a paste-cutter, egg them over and crumb them in crushed macaroons and breadcrumbs. Fry in sufficient very hot clarified butter to well cover the shapes. Drain, dredge with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve with hot or cold fruit syrup. SUNK SWARIN.. BISCUIT MOULD. SAVARIN MOULD.771 CHAPTER XXXIV. COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Under this heading various kinds of sweet dishes are inclnded, snrh as cold puddings, bavarois, fruit tarts, babas, savarins, creams, custards, mousses, jellies, tartlets, small and fancy cakes, gateaux, fancy pastry, eclairs, choux-pastry, frnit-croiites, fruit-compotes, charlottes, meringues, nougats, etc. It is here necessary to point out that when hot and cold sweets are served the hot dishes should precede the cold ones. There are a number of dishes named which can be served either hot or cold, including certain puddings, savarins, babas, caramels, pies, flans, and tarts. Other important points io be observed in the sweet course are the projier blending and distribution of colours and flavours, the selection and arrangement of which require some knowledge, taste, as well as judgment. The rule or the order of service in sweet entremets is the same as in entrees and other courses, viz., that the order should be alternately dark and light ; thus two dishes of similar colour and flavour cannot be served in succession. The list of sweets provides a much larger variety than any other course, hence there should not be much difficulty in the selection of suitable dishes. Bavarois an Caramel [Lemon Caramel Cream). 6 oz. castor sugar, i t pint milk, i pint cream, i oz. gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs, I lemon. Peel the lemon finely, chop the rind and put it in a copper sugar-boiler, add two ounces of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, stir over the hre until it acquires a dark amber colour, add the milk and boil up, then stir in the yolks of eggs two at a time, and the remainder of the sugar. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, and pass through a fine sieve or strainer. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of water, strain it into the above, let it cool a little, whip the cream, and mix. Fill up a mould, stand it on the ice to cool, when set, turn out and serve. Bavarois au Chocolat [Chocolate Cream). I lb. chocolate, 3 oz. sugar, J- oz. French leaf gelatine, i tablespoonful creme clc riz, i quart milk, 6 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful vanilla essence. Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk, mix the ground rice or creme de riz with half a gill of cold milk. Put the chocolate, sugar, and remainder of milk in a stew-pan, boil gently, stir until the chocolate is dissolved, add the gelatine and creme de riz, stir772 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. until it boils. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, pour on the milk, etc., stir well, and return to the stew-pan, add the vanilla essence, and stir over the hre until it thickens, but do not let it l)oil. Strain through a fine hair sieve, pour into a fancy mould ; when set, tnrn out on a cold dish, and serve. The top of the shape may be decorated with whipped cream, sweetened with a little vanilla sugar, by means of a cornet or forcing-bag. Bavarois de Bananes {Banana Cream). I quart milk, 2 oz. cornflour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 bananas, teaspoonful vanilla essence, 2 yolks of eggs. Boil up the milk, add the sugar, blend the cornflour with a little cold milk, mix with the boiling milk, stir over the hre until it thickens, and add the yolks of eggs and Havouring essence. Let the eggs bind, and set aside to cool. Peel the bananas, cut into thin slices, mix with the above, hll into one or two wetted moulds, and put on the ice to set. When ready, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve with a cold fruit syrup. Bavarois a la Nesselrode {Chestnut Cream). Prejiare a “ Bavarois a la Vanille,” flavour with cinnamon in addition to the vanilla, and add two tablespoonfuls of chestnut puree. Decorate a jelly-mould with wine-jelly and glace fruit. When set, hll up with the prepared cream, and place it on the ice to get hrm. Bavarois aux Peches {Peach Cream). Prepare a cream as directed in “ Bavarois a la Vanille,” and to it add one and a half gill of peach puree, well reduced, before stirring in the gelatine. Decorate the mould tastefully with wine jelly, peach kernels, and angelica, before moulding. Bavarois a la Vanille {Vanilla Cream). \ pint milk, pint cream, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 2 inch vanilla pod, | oz. leaf gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Put the sugar, milk, and vanilla in a stew-pan, and bring slowly to the boil. Stir the yolks of eggs, pour on the milk, etc., when boil- ing, mix well, return to the stew-pan, stir on the hre un- til it thickens, then take out the vanilla and pass through a pointed strainer orhne sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of water, strain it into the above mixture, let it cool a little, and add the cream, pre-773 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. viously whipped. Fill up a mould, place it in a basin surrounded with crushed ice. W’hen thoroughly set, immerse in tepid water, turn ont on to a dish. Garnish the base with triangular shapes of jelly, and serve. Note.—Wipe the vanilla })od and put away for further use. More sugar may be added if liked. x\ stitlly-whisked white of egg added to the above mixture just before moulding it will make the cream much lighter. Bordure de Figues a la Creme {Fig Border with Cream). J- 11). dried ligs, the rind of ?, a lemon, i oz. castor sugar, ] oz. French gela- tine, r pint claret, i gill whipped cream. Cut the figs into small pieces, put them into a stew-pan witli the sugar and lemon-rind, moisten with the claret, or, if preferred, with the same ejnantity of water instead (tf the claret. Simmer gently on the stove or in the oven until tender. Soak the gelatine, dissolve it, and add to the figs. Remove the lemon-rind, and put the whole through a sieve. Stir in a little cream (about a (piarter gill), ])onr into a border mould, when set, turn ont on a cold dish, put tire whipped cream, slightly sweetened with vanilla sugar, in the centre, and serve. Note.—The liquor put with the figs should be almost absorbed by the time they are done. Bordure a la Princesse de Galles. For inner border : 2 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, V teaspoonful vanilla essence, I oz. chopped almonds, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i small glass maraschino. For outer border : pint wine jelly, I oz. pistachios, 2 egg-yolks, gill cream, i leaf gelatine, h oz. castor sugar, glace cherries, whipped cream and small meringues for decoration. Beat up the eggs and sugar till light and creamy, add the vanilla flavouring, almonds, and add by degrees the flour, previously sifted and warmed, and the butter, which must be dissolved but774 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. nearly cold when added. Butter a plain savarin border mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Unmould and let cool. Heat up the marmalade with the maraschino, strain, and brush over the baked border. Next blanch, peel, and chop finely the pistachios. Mix the egg-yolks with the cream and heat up, add the sugar, and dissolve in it the gelatine, add the pistachios, and stir on the ice till it begins to set. Put the mixture into a forcing- bag, force out the flowers in a special mould, as here shown, which must be previously masked with wine jelly and sprinkled with coarsely chopped almonds or desiccated cocoanut. Place on the ice to set, then j)ut in the baked bor- der ; fill the sides of the mould with wine jelly. When set, unmould on to a cold dish, and place half a glace cherry on top of each flower. Have ready some whipped cream sweetened witli vanilla sugar, fill the centre of the border with it, and dress around it, resting upon the cream some very small “ baby ” meringue shells. Garnish round the edge of meringues with red- currant jelly squeezed through a cornet. The dish is then ready for serving. Bordure de Riz aux Prunes {Border of Rice with Primes). 2 oz. rice, 2 oz. castor sugar, i pint milk, the thin rind of ^ a lemon, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz. blanched and chopped pistachio kernels, i glass maraschino, glace cherries, angelica for garnish, 2 dozen stewed French plums, gill whipped cream, a teaspoonful cinna- mon, sugar. Pick and wash the rice, and cook till tender in the milk, add the sugar and lemon-rind, finely chopped, tilt the lid on the pan in which the rice is cooked, put it in the oven for a few minutes to allow some of the moisture to evaporate, then add the egg-yolks and the maraschino. Fill a buttered border-mould with the cooked rice, stand the mould in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and bake in the oven for half an hour. Unmould on a round silver-plated or china dish. When cold, mask with liquefied apricot marmalade, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts. Stone the cooked plums, put them in shape again, insert a short strip of angelica into each plum, and arrange them on top of the border of rice, or in the centre of the dish, garnish with a few halves of glace cherries. Decorate the top and sides with whipped cream, using a forcing-bag with a plain or fancy pipe for this puiq^ose. Bordure de Marrons a la Chantilly {Chestnut Border). I pint Spanish chestnuts, half their weight of loaf sugar, about pint of milk, } oz. leaf gelatine, 2 inches vanilla pod, i gill cream, oz. vanilla sugar, I oz. chocolate, i gill sweet jelly. Remove the shells from the chestnuts, scald them in boiling water, and then skin. Cook till tender in milk, together with theCOLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 775 N’anilla pod. When done take out the vanilla and pass through a wire sieve. (The chestnut puree should weiglrabout eight ounces.) Put the loaf sugar in a stew-pan, add about a gill of water, and reduce to a syrup. Dissolve the gelatine, and strain with the syrup, mix the chestnut juice with this, and stir over the fire until it becomes quite smooth, turn into a basin, and let cool. Melt the chocolate with the jelly, strain, and let cool a little, mask the inside of a border mould with this, put on the ice to set, then fill up with the half-set chestnut mixture, and keep cool to set well. Whip the cream till stiff, sweeten with vanilla sugar, and put on a sieve to drain. Immerse the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a cloth, turn out on a dish. Dress the cream in the centre in the shape of a pyramid, and place a few glace chestnuts and round shapes of cream on the border. Bordure de Prunes a la Creme {Prune Border with Cream). I lb. prunes, lb. loaf sugar, i gill claret, the rind of i a lemon thinl}' cut, I inch cinnamon stick, 4 oz. leaf gelatine, i gill cream. Stone the prunes, put them on the fire in a fireproof pot or stew-pan with the lemon-rind, cinnamon, claret, sugar, and a pint of water, stew slowl}/ until tender, adding a little more claret if needed, and pass through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine, and strain into the prepared pulp, half an ounce is reckoned sufficient for every pint of pulp. Mix well, cool a little, pour into a border mould previously lined with clear wine jelly. When cold and set, immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, decorate with shreds of pistachio kernels and almonds. Wdiip the cream, sweeten slightly with vanilla sugar, put it in the centre of the mould, and serve. Bordure Japonaise a la Gelee. Prepare a small savarin border (p. 756), and bake a light colour. Mask a larger border mould w-ith maraschino jelly. Coat the cake-border with liquefied apricot marmalade, and when set drop it into the prepared mould. Fill up with maraschino jelly, andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 7/6 place in the cool to set. Turn out on a cold dish, and hll the centre with whipped cream mixed with some ground almonds and a little sugar to taste. Bordure a la Pierre le Grand. \ lb. almonds, J lb. castor sugar, 12 eggs, 3 oz. potato or rice flour, 4 oz. butter, I teaspoonful orange-flower water, gill cream, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz. pistachios, fruit compote, i lemon, custard sauce. Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, pound them in a mortar, adding about two tablespoonfuls of water and the juice of a lemon. When quite hne, put this into a basin, add the yolks of twelve eggs, fecule butter (melted), orange-flower water, and finally the whites of ten eggs stiffly whisked. Three-parts fill two savarin border moulds previously buttered and floured, and bake in a moderate oven to a nice golden brown. Unmould and let cool, cut them in half and fill the centre with whipped cream suitably flavoured. Place them together in the original shape and mask each with dissolved apricot marmalade. Sprinkle over with chopped pistachio nuts and dish up. Fill the centre with any kind of fruit compote, pears, peaches or apricots, and send to table with a cold cffstard saifce. The above ingredients are sufficient for ten persons. Chartreuse de Bananes {Banana Chartreuse). Proceed in the same manner as for chartreuse of grapes, using ripe, but firm bananas, peeled and cut into r 0 u n cl slices, in place of the grapes. Note.—Straw- berries, r a s p- berries,apricots, and other fruit can be used and treated in the same way. Chartreuse a la Baronne {Baroness Chartreuse). § pint wine jelly, i pint prune cream or chocolate custard, 6 halves of preserved apricots or other fruit (see Note), i tablespoonful of shredded pistachio nuts and almonds. Mask the inside of a jelly-mould with jelly, decorate the bottom with a few slices of apricot and shreds of almonds and pistachios, and set them with jelly. When set, place a small tumbler in the centre of the mould, leaving about three-quarters of an inch all round the side of the mould, fill the side of the mould alternately with jelly, apricot slices, pistachios, and almonds, allow each layer of fruit to set before adding the next. Place the mould on the ice to get the jelly firm. Put some tepid water in the glass to loosen the jelly, take the glass from the mould, and fill the cavity withCOLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 777 chocolate custard or prune cream. When set, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish, garnish with chopped jelly, and serve. Note.—By way of a change, bananas, peaches or otlier choice fruit can be used in place of apricots. To facilitate the setting of each la}^er, it is best to place the mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice. Ice placed in the tumbler is also helpful. Chartreuse aux Praises {Strawberry Chartreuse). I small punnet of ripe strawberries, |- pint clear wine jelly, f pint cream, I glass chartreuse, J- oz. angelica, 4 leaves of gelatine. iMask a fancy or plain mould with jelly. Pick out a few of the best fruit, halve them, remove the stalks, and for them substitute small strips of angelica. Decorate the bottom and sides of the mould with these, mask well with jelly, to keep the fruit firm and in position. Cut the remainder of strawberries in slices. Let the jelly be cold and liquid, put in the sliced fruit, melt the gelatine in a little jelly, and strain into this. Whip the cream, and stir it in ; add the liqueur, and stir over the ice until it begins to set, then pour into the decorated mould. Stand it on the ice until firm, then turn out, and serve. PLAIN CHARTREUSE MOULD. Chartreuse de Pommes a la Princesse. 6 small cooking apples, -I oz. gelatine, 2 cloves, the rind of 1 lemon, 2 oz. angelica, about 3 oz. sugar, a few drops carmine or cochineal, i pint jelly, I oz. glace cherries, .J gill of cream, f oz. pistachios. Peel, core, and slice the apples, cook them in a stew-pan with half a pint of water, the sugar, lemon-rind, and cloves, and pass through a fine sieve. Dis.solve the gelatine and stir in with the puree while hot. Divide the jiuree in two, mingle one part with a little thick cream, and the other with a few drops of cochineal, pour into separate saute-pans, and put on ice. Wdien perfectly set, stamp out some half-moon and diamond-shape pieces. Stand a charlotte mould in some ice, mask the sides with liquid jelly, dip each piece of apple puree into the jelly, and arrange these, together with fancifully-cut pieces of angelica, tastefully at the bottom and sides of the mould. Place a smaller mould in the centre of this, so as to leave about an inch of space all round, fill this carefully with half-set jelly and allow it to set firmly. Dissolve separately the trimmings of the puree used, add the remainder of cream pre- ^•iously whipped, sweeten to taste, mi.x equally with about a gill of jelly. Remove the mould in the centre and fill the cavity by degrees with layers of this preparation. Be sure you allow each layer to set before you put on the ne.xt. Between the la^^ers sprinkle the pistachio nuts, previously blanched, peeled, dried, and chopped. Stand on the ice until required, then immerse in tepid water, turn out, and serve. Chartreuse de Raisins {Chartreuse of Grapes). Line a deep fancy border or other suitable mould with a thin layer of wine jelly (champagne or maraschino jelly). Remove theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 778 skin and seeds from large black and white hot-house grapes, and place them alternately with layers of jelly into the prepared mould (allow each layer of fruit to set before the next is added). When thus hlled, put the mould into the ice to set. Unmould the char- treuse into a suitable dish, fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream, and serve. Creme d’Ananas a la Villeneuve {Pineapple Cream). pint double cream, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, 3 slices fresh pineapple, lb. nouille p^.ste (p. 134). Cut the paMe into strips about half an inch wide. Plunge them into hot clarified butter, fry to a golden colour, drain well on a cloth or paper, dredge with vanilla sugar whilst hot. Whip the cream till quite stiff, to this add the pineapple, cut into small dice, and sweeten with an ounce of vanilla sugar. Dress the cream neatly in the centre of a round dish, and range the fried nouilles round its base, which should be hot. Serve immediately. Creme Caramel {Caramel Cream). 4 oz. loaf sugar, i pint milk, 2 eggs, i oz. castor sugar. Put the loaf sugar in a copper saucepan with a few drops of water and cook until it becomes a dark amber colour, and has the con- sistency of treacle, then pour into a dry charlotte mould ; turn the mould round and round until it gets completely lined with the caramel. Put the milk in a saucepan, and boil up with half a vanilla pod, then add the eggs, well beaten, and the castor sugar. Take out the vanilla and strain the custard into the prepared mould, cover with a piece of bifttered paper, and steam until firm (about thirty minutes) ; then unmould carefully on to a hot dish. No sauce is required, for the caramel in cooking becomes liquid. This cream is equally delicious served cold. Creme a la Genoise {Genoese Cream). I pint milk, i gill cream, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, 2 oz. loaf sugar, i oz. glace fruit, 4 yolks of eggs, | orange, glass cognac brand3'', \ oz. gelatine. Pour the brandy over the macaroons in a basin, and let soak. Rub the loaf sugar on the rind of orange to extract the zest, put the sugar and milk in a stew-pan, and bring to the boil. Beat the yolks of eggs a little, add the boiled milk, return to the stew-pan, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken, then put aside and stir in the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little milk. Strain through a pointed strainer, mix in the macaroons and brandy, and let cool a little. Shred the fruit, lemon, and orange rind. Whip the cream, mix it with the preserved fruits, stir until it begins to set, then pour into a mofild, and put on ice. When set, immerse it in tepid water, turn out and garnish with a little chopped jelly. Creme au Gingembre {Ginger Cream). I pint milk, i gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. preserved ginger, \ gill ginger syrup, i glass kirschwasser, i oz. castor sugar, i gill wine jelly, about |- oz. gelatine.COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 779 Boil the milk and pour it, whilst stirring, over the egg-yolks. Return to the stew-pan, add sugar, and cook till it is of a cnstard- like consistency. Strain it into a basin, add the syrup and the gelatine, previously dissolved and strained. Decorate a jelly- mould, previously masked with wine-jelly, with small pieces of ginger and glace cherries, and let it set on the ice. Whip the cream, cut the remainder of ginger into small pieces, and mix both with the prepared custard. Lastly, add the kirschwasser, stir well, and fill up the decorated mould. Turn out when set. Creme de Groseille verte {Gooseberry Cream). Proceed as above, but substitute the orange with half a gill of gooseberry puree and a little lemon-juice. Add a few drops of spinach greening, and mould. A little more gelatine (i or 2 extra leaves) should be added during the hot weather to all creams, etc. in which gelatine is used. Creme a ITmperatrice {Empress Cream). i-r pint milk, pint cream, 3 oz. ground rice, 2 oz. castor sugar, oz. leaf gelatine, vanilla essence, glace cherries, angelica, pistachio nuts, and jelly for garnish. Boil the milk, stir in the ground rice, and cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk or water, and strain it into the rice cream, stir in the sugar and half a tea- spoonful of vanilla essence, let cool a little, then add a few glace cherries (cut into small dice) and a tablespoonful of blanched, peeled, and coarsely chopped pistachios. Whip the cream and stir gently into the above. Have ready a fancy border or jelly mould, masked with jelly and decorated tastefully with glace cherries, pistachios, and angelica, pour in the prepared mixture, and put the mould in a cool place to set. To serve, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn the contents on a cold dish, decorate with coarsely-chopped jelly and some fruit compote. Creme a la Monaco. i pint apricot pulp (well reduced), i pint cream, oz. gelatine, pint maraschino jelly, pint milk, a few drops almond essence, 4 oz. castor sugar, ^ lemon, glace cherries, almonds and maraschino biscuits for garnish. Heat up the apricot pulp and add enough sugar to sweeten, also the thin rind of half the lemon and a teaspoonful of its juice. Dissolve the gelatine and add half its quantity, and strain into a basin. Boil up the milk, add sugar to sweeten and the remainder of gelatine (strained), flavour with almond essence. Whip the cream and stir half into the milk and the other into the apricot puree. Pour into separate moulds, and put on the ice to set. These creams must be of respectively yellow and white tint. A few drops of licpiid saffron may be added to the apricot cream if found necessary. Mask two plain charlotte moulds (pint size) with a coating of maraschino jelly, decorate the bottom and sides taste- fully with slices of cherries (not too thin) and slices of blanched almonds. Cut out by means of a spoon or knife small pieces, ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 780 even shape, of the white and yellow cream, place a layer of each alternately into the mould, and here and there halves of cherries, pour some jelly between the layers, allowing each to set before another is added. Proceed thus until the moulds are filled. Keep- on the ice till firm, then unmould, dish up, and garnish with small finger biscuits glazed with pink and white maraschino icing. Creme frappee aux Mille Fruits. Prepare a “ Bavarois a la Vanille ” mi.xture (p. 772), and add to it two stiffly whisked whites of eggs, also one ounce of shredded almonds and some maraschino or curacoa liqueur to flavour. Before the mixture begins to set, stir in half a pint of mixed preserved fruits, such as apricots, cherries, pineapple, angelica, etc. Pour slowly into a coated and decoratecl mould, and place on the ice to set. Unmould on to a dish, and serve. Creme de Mirabelles en Surprise. I pint mirabclle puree (this is obtained by heating up a bottle of preserved mirabelles and rubbing the fruit through a fine sieve), -J- pint cream, | oz. French leaf gelatine, i gill wine jelly, i talrlespoonful maraschino, i-^ oz. castor sugar, 11- wineglassful port wine, -J- gill red-currant jelly, a few shredded almonds and glace cherries for garnish. Mask a bombe-mould with a thin layer of clear wine jelly. Heat up the fruit pulp (puree) slowly, add it to the sugar and the maraschino. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and strain into this. Stir until it commences to cool, then stir in the cream, pre- viously wliipped. Stand the prepared mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice, and pour in a little of the prepared puree. When set, place in a narrow glass tumbler, and fill the space with cream. Allow this to set, then pour a little warm water into the tumbler, remove it from the mould, and fill the cavity with the remainder of wine jelly mixed with the red-currant jelly and port wine, to which should be added some finely-shredded, blanched, peeled almonds and a few glace cherries cut into slices, the whole being stirred until on the point of setting. Place on the ice to set, then unmould, decorate with coarsely-chopped red wine jelly, almond strips, and glace cherries. Creme Mosaique {Mosaic Cream). Ingredients for Decoration.—J pint custard, f oz. gelatine, i oz. castor sugar, vanilla essence, maraschino, coffee essence, a little wine jelly for masking and garnish. Dissolve the gelatine in the custard and add the sugar. Divide it into three portions, colour them respectively red, coffee, and yellow. Flavour the red with vanilla and the yellow with mara- schino. Set on three plates, and when cold cut into thin squares or other shapes with a fancy cutter, and decorate the bottom and sides of a mould, previously masked with jelly, with the pieces and pistachio nut. (For style of decoration see illustration on page 570.) Ingredien-fs for Cream.—f pint cream, |- oz. gelatine, i glass sherry, i oz. sweet almonds, -J- oz. pistachio nuts, 2 oz. castor sugar ; flavouring and trimmings from the custard. Whip the cream, dissoh^e the gelatine in the sherry, and strainCOLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 78 into a basin. When cool put into the cream, add the other in- gredients, mix, and let cool a little. Pour it into the prepared mould and place on the ice to set. Turn out and garnish with chopped jelly. Creme a I’Orange {Orange Cream). i\Iask a jelly-mould with lemon or wine jelly, decorate it with glace cherries and angelica, prepare a “ Bavarois a la Vanille ” mixture (p. 772). Add to it the juice and the fmely-grated rind of an orange, also a little well-reduced apricot marmalade. Fill up the mould and place on the ice to set. Creme aux Peches {Peach Cream). 6 preserved peaches, 2 oz. sugar, glace cherries, i gill wine jelly, -h pint cream, -1- oz. gelatine. Mask a fancy jelly mould with a thin layer of jelly, decorate the sides and bottom with a few thin slices of peach and glace cherries. Put the remainder of the peaches through a hne sieve, and mix with it about half a gill of sjnmp. Dissolve the gelatine, heat up the fruit pulp, strain the gelatine into it, and add the sugar. Whip the cream and add it to the above as it begins to get cool. Pour the mixture into the decorated mould, and place it on the ice until required for table. To serve, immerse the mould in .slightly warm water, then wipe it quickly, and turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish the dish' with a little chopped wine jelly, and serve. Creme renversee {Btirnt Sugar Cream). 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, -J- gill cream, -J- tea.spoonful lemon essence. Put two ounces of the sugar with half a gill of water in a copper sugar-boiler, boil until it acquires a light-brown colour, or, in other words, until it is a caramel. Quickly and completely mask the inside of a plain mould (one-and-a-half-pint size), and let it cool. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the remainder of the sugar, the milk, cream, a n cl t h e essence of lemon. Strain the whole in- to the lined mould, place in a s t e w- pan, hll up with boiling water to half the height of the mould, and cook in a moderately-heated oven for forty minutes. This dish can be served hot or cold. Great care must be taken in the turning out if served hot, otherwise it should stand for at least one hour andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. -V7S2 a half before it is turned out. In either case, the caramel used to mask the mould forms the sauce. Creme a la Romaine {Roman Cream). 3 oz. Jordan almonds and i oz. bitter almonds, i pint milk, 11- gill cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, i tablespoonful orange-flower water, i oz. leaf gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, chop rather finely, and put them into a cop])er preserving-pan and stir over the fire until they have acquired a light-brown colour. Boil the milk, add the sugar and almonds, simmer gently for ten minutes, cool a little, stir in the yolks of eggs and let them bind, then remove quickly, and pass through a fine sieve. Soak the gelatine in a little cold water, dissolve in a saucepan, strain into the cream, and add the orange- flower water. Whip the cream and stir it lightly in as soon as the mixture is nearly cold. Pour into a mould, stand it on the ice, when set turn out, garnish with some preserved fruit or compote, and serve. Creme cuite a la Suisse {Swiss Cream). 3 oz. glace fruits (cherries, apricots, angelica, etc.), \ pint cream, -J pint milk, 6 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, ioz. loaf sugar, f oz. leaf gelatine, I glass cura9oa, i gill wine ielly. Mask a quart mould with jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with glace fruits, and set the fruit with a layer of jelly. Put the milk and cream with the sugar in a stew-pan, bring to the boil. Mix the eggs in a basin, pour over the boiling milk and cream, stir well, and return to the stew-pan. Stir over a slow fire and let it come gradually almost to the boil, strain uho a basin, also strain in the gelatine, previously dis,solved in a little milk, stir occasionally until cold, then add the liqueur, the remaining glace fruit cut into shreds. When on the point of setting pour into the decorated mould. Stand it in a cool place until set. Immerse in tepid water, and dish up on a cold dish. Creme au Tapioca aiix Fruits {Tapioca Mould with Fruit). 3 oz. ground or crushed tapioca, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 inches vanilla pod, j pint milk, 1- pint cream, about a pint of compote of fruit, almonds and glace cherries for garnish. Boil the milk, vanilla pod, and sugar in a stew-pan, sprinkle in the tapioca, stir until it boils, cook for about fifteen minutes, remove the vanilla pod, and pour into a basin. Whip the cream and mix with the tapioca when cool, tnrn into a border mould, when set unmould on to a round dish, ornament the border tastefully with blanched and shredded almonds and halves of glace cherries, fill the centre with any kind of stewed fruit, pour some of the fruit syrup round the border, and serve. The fruit may, if liked, be flavoured with a glass of chartreuse or maraschino. Creme Tutti-Frutti {Mixed Fruit Cream). A pint or more of mixed fruit (fresh), cherries (stoned), strawberries, apricots (cut into dice), bananas (cut into dice), etc. ; i gill syrup, i glass maraschino, J gill Madeira wine, \ pint cream, oz. French leaf gelatine, J oz. pistachio kernels (finely chopped), i oz. blanched and dried almonds (cut into strips), i tablespoonful milk, i lemon.783 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Put the fruit into a basin, boil up the syrup and ])Our over it, add the maraschino, cover, and let cool. Pour off the syrup, boil it again, and add it to the fruit. Take up the fruit and arrange it neatly in a low silver-plated souffle dish, or else in a glass or china compotiere dish. Soak in the milk the gelatine, dissolve it in a small stew-pan, add the syrup from the fruit and the Madeira wine, when hot add the juice of a lemon, a little sugar if needed, and strain into a basin. Place the basin on the ice, and stir fre- quently. Meanwhile whip the cream till stiff and mix with the above when on the point of setting, and pour carefully into the dish containing the fruit. Place the dish on the ice till required for table. Sprinkle the top with finely-chopped pistachios, and garnish with a pretty design with strips of almonds. Japonais a I’Orientale. 5 whites of eggs, 4 oz. ground or else finely chopped hazel-nuts, or, failing this, almonds, 6 oz. castor sugar, i pint a la vanille mixture (bavarois) in a plain charlotte mould, i gill double cream, i oz. vanilla sugar, a few glace cherries and angelica for garnish. Put the whites of eggs into a clean egg-bowl, add a pinch of salt, and beat them to a very stiff froth. Work in six ounces cf sugar very gently, also the nuts or almonds, and put the mixture into a forcing-bag with a plain tube. Force out as many round shapes on to a slightly greased baking-tin as may be required. There should be different sizes, so that a pyramidal shape may be formed with them. Make the shapes thus (^. Sprinkle over a little castor sugar, and bake in a slow oven. When done remove the meringue shapes and let cool. Dress them on a dish with alter- nate layers of bavarois, cut from the vanilla cream, having a meringue for the bottom and for the top. Whisk the cream till stiff, flavour with vanilla sugar, and cover the whole shape with it. Decorate tastefully with halves of cherries and angelica leaves, and serve. Gelee au Vin de Bordeaux {Claret Jelly). J pint claret, i gill lemon-juice, the thinly-cut rind of lemon, 2 cloves, a piece of cinnamon, 3 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly, li- oz. gelatine, 3 oz. loaf sugar, i pint water, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. Put the ingredients above named in a clean stew-pan and bring slowly to the boil, whisking all the time, then simmer for ten minutes. Strain once or twice through a cloth or jelly-bag till clear, and fill up in a large or several small moulds. Place on the ice to set. Unmould and dish up. Note.—During hot weather a little more gelatine should be added. Gelee au Vin de Champagne {Champagne Jelly). I quart water, 2^ oz. leaf gelatine, i orange, 2 lemons, 8 oz. lump sugar, pint sherry, 2 cloves, i inch cinnamon, i dessertspoonful coriander seeds, pint of champagne, 2 whites of eggs and shells. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the juice of orange and lemons, also half of the peel (cut very thin), put this, together with the other ingredients, in a stew-pan, whisk the whites of eggs.784 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. crush the shell and add also. Boil up slowly, stirring frequently. As soon as it boils draw the pan to the side, pour in a tablespoonful of cold water, and simmer gently for about ten minutes. Strain through a cloth or jelly-bag. Pour into a mould and let it set on the ice. Immerse in lukewarm water, wipe the mould, and turn out on to a dish. Gelee au Citron [Lemon Jelly). Proceed the same as directed for “ Gelee au Vin ” (p. 786), using the juice of six lemons. No wine flavouring need be added unless desired. Praises en Gelee [Jellied Strawberries). Prepare a jelly as directed in “ Gelee au Vin.” Keep it as bright as possible, and colour with a few drops of carmine or spinach greening. Mask a mould with this, when set fill it gradually with layers of jelly and layers of freshly picked ripe strawberries. See that each layer is set before the next layer of fruit is added. Set in a cool place till firm. Turn out and dish up. Framboises en Gelee [Jellied Raspberries). Prepare a pint of wine jelly (see p. 786), and colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, or with a little spinach greening, to give it either a pale pink or else a pale pea-green tint. Select about a pound of fine ripe raspberries, pick them carefully. Remove the stems, and insert in their place thin strips of angelica. Mask the inside of a suitable mould with half-set jelly, and set the raspberries with alternate layers of jelly, repeat till the mould is filled. The last layer should be of jelly. Do not attempt to set a fresh layer of fruit till each layer of jelly is firm, otherwise the effect of the mould when turned out will be spoilt. When firm enough take up the mould, dip it into lukewarm water for a moment, then wipe on a cloth, and turn on to a hot dish. Gelee aux Praises [Strawberry Jelly). Pick half a pound of small reel strawberries, pulp them a little, and j:)ut them in an earthen pan. Prepare a pint of syrup with half a pound of sugar and a pint of water, let it cool a little, pour it over the fruit, cover with strawberry-leaves, and put aside for an hour. Put two ounces of soaked gelatine into a stew-pan, add one pint of watei, the juice of a.lemon, and the strawberry syrup strained, clarify with two whites of eggs, strain through a jelly-bag until transparent, mask a mould with a little jelly on the ice, then orna- ment with large ripe strawberries and angelica or ])istachio strips. Fill the mould with jelly when the latter is cold enough to allow the strawberries used for ornamenting to set. Gelee Isabelle. Soak and dissolve half an ounce of leaf gelatine, to this add a gill of fruit pulp, such as raspberry, strawberry, peach or apricot, boil it up and reduce a little, sweeten to taste, strain, and let cool. Mix with it about a gill of whipped cream, and pour the mixture on78s COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. to a wetted baking-tin. Place this on the ice to set. When linn stamp out by means of a paste or column cutter some round, oval, star or crescent shapes. Mask a jelly mould with a thin layer of wine jelly, sprinkle the bottom and sides with blanched, peeled, and finely chopped pistachio kernels, then fill up with alternate layers of jelly and small shapes of set cream. The latter should be scattered over just before the layers of jelly begin to set, whereby the effect will be all the prettier. When filled, place the mmild on the ice. To serve, dip the mould for a few seconds into tepid water, then wipe it quickly and turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish the dish with whipped cream, and send to table, Gelee au Kirsch a la Nansen [Kirsch Jelly, Nansen Style). Line a quart jelly mould with a thin layer of clear lemon jelly flavoured with kirsch, decorate the sides and bottom with fancifully- cut glace fruit, and keep on the ice. Add a small glass of kirsch- wasser to if- pint of lemon jelly, whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the jelly, whisk this on ice until on the point of setting, then add a handful of finely cut glace fruit, and pour into the prepared mould. Place the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a moment, wipe it, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Gelee au Marasquin {Mavaschino Jelly). Proceed the same as directed for champagne jelly, omitting the champagne and adding two small glasses of maraschino liqueur and a little water in its place ; the sherry used must be of a very pale colour. Gelee au Vin d’Oporto {Port Wine Jelly). if oz. gelatine, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls red-currant jelly, 3 gills port wine, the juice of 2 lemons, I- pint water, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. Soak tlie gelatine in the water, put both into a well-tinned stew-pan, add the lemon-juice, sugar, and red-currant jelly. Beat up the egg-whites and shells, and add them. Whisk the whole over the fire, when the gelatine is dissolved add the port wine, continue to whisk until it boils, move the stew-pan to the side of the stove for a few minutes that it may simmer gently, but it must not boil. Strain through a jelly-bag or a thin cloth or napkin, until quite clear, then fill up into one large or several small moulds, and put in a cool place to set. Gelee a la Polonaise {Polish Jelly). i-f- pint maraschino jelly, i pint milk, oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, ;J oz. gelatine, i oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful vanilla essence, I tablespoonful maraschino. Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of milk with the sugar, then add the blended cornflour and stir until boiling. Soak the gelatine in water and add it, beat np the yolks of eggs and add them also. Allow the eggs to bind, strain the whole into a basin, add the flavouring essence and the mara- schino. Pour this into a flat mould and let it set on the ice. 3 D;86 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Unmould and cut the custard into small diamond blocks or cube shapes. Set these in a fancy border mould in layer with the jelly. When the mould is full, put it in a cool place to set. Turn out, dish up, and serve, Gelee au Punch {Punch Jelly). lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, ij oz. best gelatine, a wineglassful of kirsch, a wineglassful of rum, a wineglassful of sherry, inch cinnamon, i egg, 20 coriander seeds, i gill of cream, -} oz. castor sugar. Put the sugar in a copper stew-pan, add a ])int of water, and boil to a syrup, add tlie thinly-peeled rind of the lemons, and the gela- tine previously soaked, when the latter is dissolved, put in the liqueur and wine, cinnamon and coriander seeds, also the juice of the lemons. Bring it again to a boil, let it cool a little. Beat up the white and shell of one egg, stir in, bring slowly to a boil, strain through a jelly-bag, and pour in a mould to set. When turned out, fill the centre of the jelly with whipped cream, sweeten with castor sugar, and serve. Gelee panachee a la Russe [Rtissian Ribbon Jelly). Mask a fancy jelly-mould with a thin coating of wine jelly coloured with liquid carmine or cochineal, prepare a punch jelly as directed in “ Gelee au Punch,” using rum for flavouring. Whisk till quite frothy a sufficient quantity to half fill the mould. Fill the mould with alternate layers of plain and whipped jelly. Let each kind set before the next is added. Note.—A pretty sweet, similar to this in appearance, can be made by setting vanilla and chocolate cream in layers in a mould. Gelee au Vin {Wine Jelly). 2 quarts water, f pint white wine or sherry, 5-^, to 6 oz. best gelatine, 2 oranges, 3 lemons, 4- oz. coriander seed, 10 oz. loaf sugar, 2 whites of eggs and shells. Put the water, sugar, the rinds of oranges and lemons, thinly peeled, into a stew-pan, and allow it to boil up. Add the juice of the fruit, wine, and coriander seed, allow the syrup to cool a little. Whisk the whites of eggs and shells, and stir into the syrup, then add the gelatine, previously soaked in cold water and strained, stir over the fire until it boils, simmer until the gelatine is melted, then pass through a jelly-bag or fine cloth (previously rinsed in boiling water). Strain two or three times until quite clear. Pour787 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. into moulds and set to cool. When set, immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve. Macedoine de Fruits a la Gelee {Mixed Fruit Jelly). iX pint wine jelly, strawberries, apricots, peaches, greengages, raisins or other kinds of fruit. Dissolve the jelly. Place a copper jelly-mould in a shallow pan of broken ice, pour in a little jelly, let it set. Arrange a layer of fruit neatly, cover with jelly, and when this is set pour in some more jelly, more layers of fruit, alternating with different kinds. Continue thus until the mould is full, but great care must be taken to see that each layer is quite set before another is put in. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained use bottled or tinned fruits, but dry each piece on a cloth before it is set in the jelly. Keep the mould on ice until set, then immerse in tepid water, turn out on to a folded napkin or on a plain silver dish, and serve. Mousseline de Gelee Napolitaine {Neapolitan Jelly). I quart wine jelly, 3 whites of eggs, i teaspoonfnl vanilla essence, I teaspoonful grated orange-rind, \ dessertspoonful finely chopped pista- chios, a few drops of liquid carmine, and spinach greening. Mask a suitable mould with jelly, and place it on the ice. Whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, stir in the remainder of the jelly, liquid and nearly cold. Whisk this on ice till it commences to set, then divide quickly into three parts ; flavour the first with vanilla and pour into the jelly-mould ; into the next put the grated orange-rind and colour with a few drops of carmine ; this is then poured on the first layer. The last portion is mixed with the pistachios, covered with a few drops of spinach greening, and poured on the orange mousse. Be careful to see that each layer is set before the next is added. Should the mousse become too firm hm working, re-heat it gently ; commence whisking again till of the right consistency. Pouding a la St. Cloud {St. Cloiid Pudding). i pint strong coffee, 4 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i gill cream, sponge cakes or Genoise cake, 3 oz. sweet almonds, X oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, angelica, and glace cherries. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds, and bake in a slow oven a fawny colour. Butter a plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the inside with shredded almonds, and fill up with small pieces of sponge cake or Genoise cake-crumbs. Dissolve the sugar in the coffee, let it cool, and add the eggs (previously beaten), the cream, and the maraschino liqueur, mix thoroughly and strain into the mould. Put the remainder of shredded almonds on top, cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper, and steam in a stew-pan containing enough boiling water to reach half wav up the mould for about two hours. Let cool until set, then turn out on a cold round dish. Warm up the marmalade with a little water and sugar, strain and mask the pudding. Ornament the top and sides with little rings of angelica and halves of glace cherries. Keep on the ice until required for table.788 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pouding a la Marguerite. 5 eggs, pint milk, a gill of cream, 2 oz. castor sugar, i teaspoonfu! vanilla essence, i oz. moist sugar, red-currant jelly, crushed ice, a little butter. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, whisk the yolks a little, then add the castor sugar and the cream. Melt the moist or brown sugar in a stew-pan and allow it to get an amber colour (not caramel), put in the milk and boil up, then stir it into the basin containing the egg-yolks, etc. Have ready a well-buttered pudding mould (a plain charlotte mould is best), add the flavouring essence to the mixture, and strain it into the buttered mould. Put the mould in a saute or other flat stew-pan containing some boiling water. Let it come to the boil over the fire, then place a buttered paper on top and steam in the oven for rather more than an hour. When done, allow to cool, and set it in a basin, surround the mould with crushed ice, and keep it thus for at least one hour. To serve, dip the mould in warm water for a second or two, unmould on to a cold dish, decorate the top with red-currant jelly. The jelly may be cut into cubes or forced through a forcing-bag. Pouding d’Abricot a la Princesse (Co/d Apricot Pudding). I gill apricot pulp, i gill milk, i gill cream, § oz. gelatine, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i oz. chopped almonds, a few drops cochineal, i orange, I tablespoonful lemon-juice. Soak the gelatine in a little water, dissolve and strain it, boil up the milk, beat the yolks of eggs in a basin with the sugar, stir in the boiling milk, return to the stew - pan over the fire, and stir till it thickens (it must not boil), pour back in the basin, strain in the gelatine, then add the whisk- ed whites of two eggs, the apricot pulp, the orange and lemon-juice. Strain into another basin. When nearly cold, add the whipped cream, mix well, and fill up into plain mould previously lined with wine jelly and garnished with glace cherries. Turn out and serve when quite set. The mould may be decorated with jelly and fruit before it is filled with the above preparation. Pouding a la Diplomate. -I pint milk, 3 yolks of eggs, f gill cream, i oz. sugar, 2 oz. macaroons, 4 to 6 Savoy bi.icuits, oz. gelatine, about f pint wine jelly (p. 786), a few glace cherries and angelica ior garnish. Make a custard with the milk, egg-yolks, and sugar, crush tip the macaroons, and jtour over them the hot custard. Add the cream and gelatine, previously dissolved, and allow it to cool a789 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. little. Meanwhile decorate a plain charlotte monlcl, previously lined with jelly, with cherries, angelica, and Savoy fingers, put in another layer of jelly to set the decoration. Whisk the remainder of jelly until frothy, and line the decorated mould with this. Fill the centre with the prepared custard, set the mould on the ice, and serve when set. Riz a I’Imperatrice {Rice, Imperial Style). 2 oz. Carolina rice, i pint milk, 6 oz. sugar, J- pod vanilla, 5 yolks of eggs 1 gill cream, 3 sheets French leaf gelatine, 6 oz. glace fruits, apricots, cherries, etc., i glass kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt. Wash the rice well, and drain it. Boil up the milk with the vanilla pod, add in the rice, a pinch of salt, and let it cook very gently for forty-five minutes. Take out and wipe the vanilla, and put away for further use. Soak and dissoh’e the gelatine in tepid water and strain it into the rice. Stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar, keep stirring over the fire until the eggs begin to set, remove quickly from the fire and let cool a little. Cut the fruit into dice, whip the cream. Mix the fruit, cream, and kirschwasser with the rice, fill up one large or several small moulds. Put some crushed ice in a flat tin or large basin, stand the mould or moulds in this, and keep them in a cool place for at least two hours. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cold dish'. Garnish with a few fancifully- cut pieces of crystallised fruit, and serve. Riz a la Maltaise {Rice, Maltese Style). 2 oz. Carolina rice, f pint milk, i inch vanilla pod, 2 oz. loaf sugar, i f gill whipped cream, i gill port wine jelly (p, 785), i orange, angelica, and glace cherries to garnish. Wash and blanch the rice, boil up the milk with the sugar and vanilla, add the rice and cook till tender, stir the contents of the pan frequently. Remo\-e the vanilla when the rice is cold and stir in the whipped cream. In hot weather a sheet or two of gelatine previously dissolved should be added to the rice whilst the latter is hot. Mask a plain charlotte mould with jelly, decorate the bottom with glace cherries and angelica. Mix the rice with the remainder of jelly and slices of orange, previously freed from the skin and white pith. Fill up the mould with this and place it on the ice to set. Turn out when firm and decorate round the- base of the dish with chopped jelly. Omelette a la Meringue. 4 whites of eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, vaniUa essence, 1 tablespoonful mara- schino liqueur, i gill cream, pistachios and almonds for garnish, a table spoonful red-currant jelly. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and beat up in an egg-bowl till quite firm, add a few drops of vanilla essence and 2 oz. of castor sugar. Arrange the mixture on a buttered baking- sheet in the shape of an omelet (half-moon or cushion shape), dredge over with castor sugar, and bake in a very slow oven for about forty minutes. Be sure the oven is not too hot, else the meringue will become too brown, it should be of a delicate golden brown when finished. When done, remove the meringue-shape and let790 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cool. Whip the cream till stiff and sweeten with sugar, add the maraschino and put it in the centre of an oblong sliver-plated dish, press in the bottom of the meringue and place it on top of the cream. Insert some strips of almonds and pistachios, previously blanched and dried, into the meringue crust, and serve. Apple puree, pear puree or thick custard may, if liked, be used in place of the whipped cream. Pommes meringuees a la Creme. 8 small sour cooking apples, lO oz. loaf sugar, lemon, i inch cinnamon, 2 cloves, pint cream, 3 whites of eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 8 crystallised cherries, angelica. Peel and core the apples carefully. Put the loaf sugar, half- pint of water, cinnamon, cloves, and lemon-juice in a copper stew- pan, and reduce to a syrup. Skim well and strain into a saute-pan. Arrange the apples neatly in the syrup, cover with a buttered pa- per, cook in a hot oven until tender, strain care- fully, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix 2 oz. of castor sugar. Put the meringue mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain piping tube, cover each apple com- pletely with the mixture, dust with siigar, and bake in a cool oven a fawny colour. Put them on the ice to coo). Whip the cream, add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, when the apples are cold fill the centre of each with some of the wdiipped cream. Dish up on little heaps of whipped cream in a cold dish. Put a crystallised cherry and lozenge-shaped slices of angelica on the top of each, and serve. Ananas meringue {Frosted Pineapple). Scoop out the centre portion of a preserved pineapple without breaking the shape, place it on a plated dish, and fill the cavity with a macedoine of fruit flavoured with liqueiir. Mask the whole with a meringue mixture (stiffly whisked whites of egg and sugar) ; dredge with castor sugar. Bake slowly for fifteen or twenty mimdes, and serve hot or cold. Bombes de Praises a la Macaire. lb. small ripe but firm strawberries, i pint wine jelly, i glass maraschino, I gill double cream, liquid carmine, angelica. Line a number of small bomb-shaped moulds with jelly pre- viously coloured with a few drops of carmine. Cut some of the smallest strawberries into slices, put a small piece of angelica inCOLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 79 the end of each half to form the stalks. Place them neatly around the sides of the mould, so as to line them completely, and put on the ice to set. Cut the remainder of fruit into dice or slices. Boil remainder of jelly, slightly coloured, for a few minutes to reduce its quantity, pour into a basin, stir over the ice to cool, then add the cream, liqueur, and fruit. Mi.v all carefully over the ice, till the centre of the mould. Keep on the ice till required for serving. Unmould, dish up, garnish with a few nice strawberries and chopped jelly, and serve. Pains de Praises {Little Strawberry Moulds). I punnet of strawberries, i pint wine jelly, i glass enra^oa, f oz. leaf gelatine, 2 eggs, i oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, angelica ami pistachios. Dissolve some of the jelly, pick about a dozen of the best straw- berries. Mask some fancy dariole moulds with jelly, when partly set garnish the bottom with pistachios and angelica leaves, coat the garnish with half-set jelly, and put on the ice to get firm. Beat up the eggs, pick the remainder of strawberries, put them in a basin, crush with a wooden spoon, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Make a gill of syrup with the loaf sugar, and put it and the fruit pulp, eggs, and curacoa liqueur in a copper bowl, and whisk over a saucepan of boiling water. Dissolve the gelatine, previously soaked in water, and strain into the pulp, etc. ; keep stirring over the hot water until the mi.xture binds, then beat a little longer over- some crushed ice, and add the whole strawberries. When suffi- ciently cool, fill up the moulds and leave on the ice until quite set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, turn out neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped wine jelly, and serve. Tivoli aux Praises. Mask a plain round jelly mould with a thin layer of maraschino jelly (p. 785), then fill up in alternate sections of rich strawberry cream and vanilla cream, let- ting each section set before adding the next, pour a little jelly on top of each layer and c 0 m p 1 e te 1 y fill the mould. Set it on the ice till quite firm. Unmould, dish up, and garnish with fresh strawberries, angelica, and whipped cream. Bananes farcies aux Praises {Stuffed Bananas with Strawberries).' 8 to 10 bananas (not over-ripe), 1 lb. best scarlet or forest strawberries or a gill of preserved strawberry pnlp, i oz. castor sugar, i glass curagoa, lemon.792 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Choose bananas of a good colour, wipe them with a cloth, cut off the stems, and split them in halves lengthways. Scoop out carefully the soft portion and put it in a basin, add to it the straw- berries or pulp, which should in each case be well reduced, without being burnt, mash the fruit until quite smooth, pass through a hair sieve, incorporate the liqueur and a few drops of lemon-juice, add a little castor sugar if necessary. Fill the banana shells, place two halves together, tie up with string, and put on the ice. When required for serving, remove the string and tie each with a piece of narrow ribbon. Pains d’Abricots au Marasquin. Preserved apricots mixed with a little mara- schino liqueur, lemon-juice, powdered sugar, and some gelatine dissolved in very little water, pass through a fine sieve, add whipped cream, then pour into masked bouche or dariole moulds, deco- rated and set on ice. Charlotte a la Fougere [Gooseberry Charlotte). 1 pint green gooseberries, i inch cinnamon stick, \ pint cream, oz. gelatine, 2 oz. castor sugar, } gill milk, 12-15 sponge finger-biscuits, -I- gill wine jelly, angelica and glace cherries for garnish. Pick the gooseberries and put them in a stew-pan with a table- spoonful of water, the cinnamon, and sugar. Cook till tender, remove the cinnamon, and rub the fruit through a fine sieve. Warm up the milk, strain in the gelatine, previously soaked and dissolved, and the fruit pulp. Cook together for a few minutes, and let cool a little, whip the cream and stir it gently into the mixture. Line the bottom of a charlotte mould with wine jelly, decorate it taste- fully with angelica and cherries, set this with ,a little more jelly. Trim the biscuits, cut off the tips of one end, and arrange them closely round the inside of the tin. Pour the prepared cream when sufficiently cold into the mould, taking great care not to disturb the biscuits. Put the mould on the ice to set, and turn out when needed for table. Charlotte aux Praises [Strawberry Charlotte). 3 doz. or more finger-biscuits, i-J; pint strawberry pulp, 3 oz. castor sugar, 14- gill cream, i oz. gelatine. Cut enough finger-biscuits into long triangles to form a rosette at the bottom of a charlotte mould. Stamp out a small round in the centre and put in a crystallised strawberry or cherry. Trim the ends and sides of as many biscuits as may be required to line the sides of the mould, place the biscuits close together in an upright position. Bring the pulp to the boil, sweeten with sugar, dissolve and add the gelatine. Pass through a hair sieve, then let cool a little, whip the cream, sweeten with sugar, and mix with the pulp. Fill up the lined mould with this, but not until it commences to set, and put the mould on the ice. When thoroughly set, turn out on to a folded napkin and serve.COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 79‘3 Charlotte de Gaufrettes [Wafer Charlotte). I large box cigarette wafers (Swiss gaufrcs), icing sugar (glace royal), I gill milk, i j- gill cream, -1- oz. castor sugar, -1 oz. gelatine, t tcaspoonful vanilla essence, glace cherries. For crust ; ij- lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, t egg, \ oz. grouml almonds. Line the sides of a plain charlotte mould with the ganfres, fit them close to each other by means of a little royal icing. Heat np the milk and in it dis- solve the gelatine. Whip the cream, add f oz. of sugar and the llavonring essence. Strain the milk and gelatine, and add it to the cream, stir it until it begins to cool and thicken, then ponr it into the mould. Great care must be taken not to disturb the wafer bis- cuits. Put the mould in a cool place to set. Pre- pare a paste with the Hour, butter, 2 oz. sugar, egg, and almonds. Roll out, and stamj) out a round the size of the charlotte mould in use, bake this in a moderate oven, and let cool. Place this crust on a dish, unmould the charlotte on to the paste crust, pour some whipped cream on the top, and decorate with strawberries or glace cherries. Tie with a small ribbon, and serve. Charlotte Hollandaise (Dutch Charlotte). Proceed to line a plain charlotte mould with biscuits the same as for an ordinary charlotte russe. Fill the mould with a well- prepared rich chocolate or cocoa cream or bavarois (p. 771). Charlotte Russe aux Pistaches [Pistachio Charlotte). Decorate the bottom of a plain charlotte mould with wine jelly and pistachio nuts, trim enough hnger-biscuits to line the sides of the mould, and mask them with smooth chocolate icing (made of dissolved chocolate, white of eggs, icing sugar). When set and dry, arrange them neatly, glaced side towards the tin, round the inside of the mould. See that they ht closely. Pound one ounce of blanched and peeled pistachio nuts, boil in a gill of milk, dissolve half an ounce of gelatine and strain into the milk, add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and flavour with ^vanilla cream or vanilla sugar. Whip up half a pint of double cream and mix care- fully with the above as soon as it is cool. Pour carefully into the prepared mould, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Allow it to set on the ice, then turn out, garnish with chopped wine jelly, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 794 Charlotte Russe a la Plombieres {Russian Charlotte . 14 to 18 finger-biscuits, i gill of milk, i oz, ground almonds, i gill cream, I small glass maraschino liqueur, i tablesjioonful castor sugar, ^ oz. gelatine. Trim the edges of the biscuits, cut off the tips, and line the bottom and sides of a plain charlotte mould with them, so that they ht closely to each other. The bottom of mould should be arranged to form a rosette of biscuits (see “ Charlotte aux Praises”). Boil up the milk and pour it on to the ground almond s, add the maraschino liqueur and the sugar, and stir well. Melt the gelatine in a little water or milk and strain into the above. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and stir it gradually into the milk, etc., as soon as the latter is cool enough. Just before the mixture becomes set pour it into the preparecl mould, this must be done very carefully, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Place the mould on the ice for about an hour and a half. To serve, turn the contents of the mould on to a silver or glass dish. Charlotte a la St. Jose {Pineapple Charlotte). 15 to 20 sponge finger-biscuits, ^ pint cream, 4 gill milk, 4 oz. preserved pineapple, I oz. gelatine, i oz. castor sugar, about 2 gills wine jelly. Mask the bottom of a plain mould with jelly, ornament with fancifully-cut slices of jhneapple, with half a glace cherry in the centre, pour the rest of the jelly when nearly set on this, let it set on the ice, and line the sides with hnger-biscifits, the sides and one end of which must be neatly trimmed before being used for lining. Soak and dissolve the gelatine in the milk, whip up the cream, mix with the remainder of pineapple cut into small dice, add the sugar and a tablespoonful of pineaj^ple syrup, strain the gelatine and milk into the cream, mix well, and when cool enough pour795 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. carefully into the mould. Keep in a cool place until required, turn out, and serve. Charlotte a la Suisse {.Swiss Charlotte). Line a charlotte mould with red-wine jelly about a quarter-incli thick, and place it on the ice to set, then stamp out a cross from the centre of jelly ; remove it and fill the cavity with white cream or bavarois. Line tlie sides of the mould with evenly-cut slices of Genoese pastry or finger-biscuits. Fill up with alternate layers of vanilla cream and strawberry cream. When set, turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish the sides of the charlotte with whipped cream, and serve. Compote de Fruits a la Chantilly {Fruit Compote with Cream). 6 to 8 apricots, 2 peaches (peeled and cut in quarters), i gill of strawberiies, I lb. of cherries, i gill of red-currants, i gill of white-currants, lb. of black or white grapes, about 6 oz. of castor sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls cf chablis, I taldespoonful of brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino, about I gill of double cream, 1 oz. of vanilla sugar. Prepare each kind of fruit, arrange them tastefully in layers m a glass bowl or salad dish, sprinkle each layer with a little castor sugar, and pile the fruit up to a point, finishing witli a layer of strawberries or cherries. When required for the table, whip the cream, flavour it with the vanilla sugar, and by means of a forcing- bag or paper cornet cover the surface and sides with the cream, endeavouring to give it as pretty a shape as possible. The wine and liqueur should be mixed together, and either poured over tire fruit before the cream is put on or else handed round the table as the fruit is served. It is not advisable to use any more wine or liqueur than the above quantities, for too much of it often tends to injure the delicate and natural flavour of the fruit, while the right quantity will be found agreeable as well as refreshing. Compote de Pommes a la Creme (Apple Compote with Cream). 1 lb. cooking apples, 2 cloves, lemon-rind, lb. loaf sugar, 1- pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. vanilla sngar, i glass sherry, i glass marascliino, ^ pint whipped cream. Peel, core, and stew the apples with the loaf sugar, cloves, lemon-rind, and sufficient water to cover. Strain off the juice and put the apples in a glass dish. Prepare a thick custard by Ifoiling the milk, sweetened with vanilla sugar, flavoured with sherry and thickened with egg-yolks. Let the custard get cold, then pour over the apples. Sweeten the cream slightly before it is whipped, and add the maraschino at the last. Put on a sieve to drain for a short time, then put the cream roughly on the apple and custard, ornament according to taste, and serve. Compote de Peches {Peach Compote). Choose some firm but ripe peaches of equal size, plunge them into boiling water for a few seconds, then drain carefully and remove the skin. x\rrange the fruit in a salad bowl or compotiere and pour over enough boiling syrup to well cover the fruit. Cover the bowl and let contents cool. Pour off the syrup, boil it up and remove796 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the scum, add to it a small glass of Cognac brandy or kirsch, pour this over the fruit when cold. The compote is then ready for serving. Compote de Poires au Porto. Use even-sized ripe cooking pears, peel them thinly, and cut into quarters. Remove the cores, cook the pears till tender in syrup containing a glass of port wine and half a pod of vanilla, and let them drain and cool on a sieve. Reduce the syrup to the consistency of half glaze. Dish up the pears neatly, coating each quarter with the reduced syrup. Decorate the dish tastefully with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. This is a favourite sweet at the Carlton Hotel, and the above describes Monsieur Escofiier’s method of preparation. Souffle a la Carmen [Iced Peach Souffle). Put into a clean copper pan 3 yolks of fresh eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, the juice of h lemon, and \ gill of cream. Whisk this over a stew-pan of boiling water till the mixture is fairly warm and of a creamlike texture. Rub pint of preserved peaches (bottled or tinned peaches will do) through a fine hair sieve and heat up. Melt I oz. of gelatine in a little water and strain it into the hot puree. Stir until almost cold and add to it the above mixture. Now whip up ij- gill of cream, add this also, together with a small liqueur glass of maraschino. Have ready a souffle dish lining, pro- vided with a paper band tied round and above the edge of the dish. Pour the preparation in just as it begins to set, place it in an ice cabinet, charged with broken ice and salt, and allow it to stand for about two hours. Before serving remove the paper band care- fully, and sprinkle over the surface some crushed macaroons and finely shredded or chopped almonds.COLD SWEET ENTliEMETS. 797 Souffle a la Parme ( Violet Souffle). I oz. cornflour, 2 oz. castor sugar, i gill cream, 1- pint milk, i oz. butter, I teaspoonful vanilla essence, i oz. gelatine, 4 cgg.s, 6 marrons glace; (chestnuts), i oz. crystallised Parma violets, kirsch and maraschino to flavouring. Cut the chestnuts (these must be quite tender) into dice, and put them in a pie-dish, pour over enough liquor, kirsch, and mara- schino to well soak them, cover, and let stand till required. i\li.\ the cornflour with a little milk, put it in a stew-})an with the sugar, stir in the remainder of milk (hot), add the butter and stir over the fire till it comes to a boil, cook for a few minutes. When cool add the vanilla essence, the yolks of three eggs, and the cream. Whisk this over the fire till the eggs begin to set. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water and strain into the above. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate it with the mixture. Stir over the ice till nearly cold, then add the prepared chestnuts and half the violets, crushed small. Fill a silver souffle- dish with the preparation, and place in a charged ice-cabinet. A paper band may be fastened round the dish if found necessary. This must, however, be removed just before the souffle is sent to table. When ready for serving, sprinkle the remainder of crystal- lised violets over the top. Souffles a la Voltaire. l i gill cream, 6 marrons glaces, 8-10 crystallised violets, oz. gelatine, 6 ratafias, i tablespoonful brandy, 2 dessertspoonfuls of maraschino, the whites of 2 eggs, 1 oz. castor sugar, a little water. Crush the ratafias and the marrons (chestnuts), and soak them in the brandy and maraschino. Whip the cream till thick, but not stiff, and add six crushed violets and the sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, strain, and add also. Beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and stir lightly into the mixture. Have ready some small paper or china ramaquin cases. Pin a paper band tightly round each, extending about an inch above the case. Fill the cases with the mixture, let it come half an inch above the case. Put them on the ice or some cool place to set. When firm remove the paper and decorate the top of each with whipped cream forced round with a cornet, and a few violets sprinkled on top, or use chopped pistachio nuts. Souffle Praline an Chocolat (Iced Chocolate Souffle). 3 eggs, ir gill cream, 3 oz. castor sugar, if oz. chocolate, ^ oz. gelatine, the juice of i lemon, 2 oz. French almond rock, i dessertspoonful cura90a liqueur, vanilla. Whisk yolks with sugar in a copper pan over hot water till it resembles thick cream. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and the chocolate in milk, and strain both into the mixture. Pound the French almond rock and add also. Stir in the liqueur, a few drojts of vanilla essence and the lemon-juice. Whisk the cream, and add it last of all with the whites of eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Pour into a prepared souffle dish (plated or china) or fill into smallTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 79« souffle-cases. Both large and small souffle-cases should be provided with a paper band, which is removed before serving. Place the souffle on the ice or in a charged i c e- cabinet from one to two hours. When making small souffles, rather less gelatine will be re- quired than the quantity stated. Just before serving decorate the top with chopped pistachios and whipped cream, piped through a forcer. Souffle frappe au Marasquin [Iced Maraschmo Souffle). Whip up a pint of thick cream, add to it one gill of syrup and a small glass of maraschino, and mix] carefully. Have ready a s 0 u ffl e d i s h provided with a paper band from the outside to about 2 in. high. Pour in the pre- pared cream, sprinkle the to]) with c h 0 p p e d pistachio nuts, and place it in an ice cabinet or refriger- ator, well charged with ice and coarse salt, leaving it from two to three houz'S. After removing the paper band force some whipped cream neatly on the surface of the souffle, and put a few pistachio nuts here and there. It is then ready to serve. Souffle au Sabayon [Milanese Souffle). 3 eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, the juice of 2 lemous aud the riiid of one, | pint cream, i gill wine jelly, i dessertspoonful vanilla sugar. Whisk the yolks of eggs with the castor sugar in a basin over a pan of boiling water till thick and creamy. Add the lemon-juice and linely-grated rind. Let cool a little, then add the cream pre- I SOUFFLE PRALINE AU CHOCOLAT.COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 799 viously whipped. Whisk the whites of eggs, add to it the vanilla sugar, and work carefully into the above. Lastly, add the wine jelly, which must be whisked till almost cold, then stir the whole on the ice till it begins to set. Fill into a souffle-dish or small souffle-cases provided with paper bands, place the souffle in a charged ice-cabinet for two hours. When firm, sprinkle the top with crushed macaroons or grated chocolate, remove the paper bands, dish u]), and serve. Mousse a la Georgette {Iced Chestnut Mousse). I pint milk, i gill cream, i oz. loaf sugar, i box glace fruits (mixed), \ pint chestnut puree, i gill whipped cream, f vanilla pod, i oz. gelatine, s egg- volks, I pineapple and syrup, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, wine jelly. Boil the milk, sugar, and vanilla pod together, beat and stir in the yolks of eggs, cook long enough to bind, then add the gelatine, previously dissolved, and strain the contents into a basin. When a little cooled add the cream, and freeze this in the usual manner. Place a dome-shaped plain mould on some crushed ice, mask the inside with a thin layer of wine jelly, decorate the sides and bottom with glace fruit, such as cherries, sliced apricots, and angelica, dipping each piece into jelly as it is placed in, and cover with a quarter-inch coating of the ice-cream when half-frozen. Cut the pineapple int(j small dice. Mi.x the chestnut puree with remainder of the vanilla cream, and add to it the pineapple, a little of its syrup, also the maraschino, and, lastly, the whipped cream. Pour the whole into the prepared mould, cover it with a lid, and place on the ice for about an hour or longer. Mousse de Praises a la Neige {Strawberry Mousse). 1 lb. small ripe strawberries, it pint maraschino jelly, pint cream, t, oz. pistachio nuts, and angelica for garnish, i small glass kirsch, around slice of Gehoesecake, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i oz,castor or vanilla sugar. Pass three parts of the strawberries through a line sieve. Fill six or eight very small fluted dariole moulds with mara- schino jelly and strawberries (halves or whole fruit) and strips of pistachio nuts, place them on the ice to set. Imbed a dome-shaped mould in a pan of ice. i\Iix the strawberry puree with a gill of maraschino jelly. Slice the remainder of strawberries, over them sprinkle the sugar and kirsch, and stir this into the puree together with a gill of stiffly-whipped and sweetened cream. Pour this into the mould, and let it set on ice. Fix a round of Genoese cake on to a dish, the former should be a little wider than the open part of the dome mould, and the centre should be slightly scooped out to hold the mousse. Mask the cake with apricot marmalade, sprinkle the edge with chopjfed pistachios. Lhnnould the mousse and place it in the centre of the dish, cover the surface quickly with whipped and sweetened cream, decorate tastefully, and place the little jellies round the base of the dish. Mousse de Framboise a la Neige {Raspberry Mousse). Proceed in the same manner as directed in the last recipe, using ripe raspbenries in place of strawberries.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 8oo Peches a la Montrose {Peaches, Montrose Style). 6 fine ripe peaches, i-} gill syrup, i glass kirsch, i flat Genoese cake, | pint strawberry cream ice, angelica, glace cherries and whipped cream for garnish. Skin and halve the peaches, poach them in the syrup for a few minutes, add the kirsch and a little liquid carmine or cochineal to give the fruit a rose tint. Take up the peaches and drain them on a sieve. Cut out as many rounds of Genoese cake as there are halves of peaches, scoop out the centre of each a little to receive the ice. Sprinkle them with syrup, and keep on the ice till required. Put a tablespoonful of the strawberry ice in the centre of each round of cake, upon this place half a peach, and let them remain for some time in a souffle ice-box charged with crushed ice and salt. When required for table, dish up, garnish quickly with halves of cherries, strips of angelica, and whipped cream. Salade de Peches [Peach Salad). Peel carefully four to six nice ripe peaches, halve them, and cut them into slices by means of a fruit knife. Arrange the fruit in a salad bowl, dredging each layer with vanilla-flavoured sugar. Pour over a couple of small liqueur glasses of kirsch and one of maraschino liqueur, cover the bowl and place it on the ice for at least an hour, longer if possible. Dress the fruit on a compotiere or fruit dish, pour over the syrup, and serve. Peches a la Cardinal. Select some firm, not over-ripe peaches, dip them into hot water for a few seconds and carefully remove the skins. Prepare a syrup flavoured with vanilla and cook the peaches in this till tender. Take them up and place them on the ice. Reduce a little of the syrup with red-currant jelly and mix with it some fresh strawberries. Mask the peaches with this. Serve in a glass bowl placed in a deep dish filled with crushed ice. Turban de Peches a la Moderne. Ingredients for border.—3 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. sifted flour, 4 oz. butter, a little grated lemon-riud or a few drops of vanilla essence, peach or apricot marmalade. Ingredients for custard.—i yolk of egg. gill milk, 2-3 lumps of sugar, 2 leaves of gelatine, i pint wine jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, peaches, apricots, or other stewed or preserved fruits, glace cherries and angelica for decoration. Beat the eggs and sugar to a creamy consistency, stir in the flour by degrees, and add the flavouring. Melt the butter and stir it in when nearly cold. Fill this into a well-buttered turban or border mould, bake in a moderate oven, place on a wire tray or sieve, and brush over with dissolved apricot or peach marmalade. Now take a similar border mould, only a little larger in size, place it on some crushed ice, mask it with a thin layer of wine jelly, and, when set, decorate the bottom with strips of angelica, trellis-work fashion, and in each cavity place a small round of glace cherries. Boil up the milk with the sugar, pour this on the egg-yolk, stir uver the fire for a moment, add the dissolved gelatine, flavour to taste, and strain. When nearly cold, and just before it sets, pour8oi COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. it carefully over the ju'epared mould. Allow this to set, then place the cake border carefully into the mould, prick it with a fork and pour over the maraschino. Fill up round the sides and over the cake, if there be space, with jelly. Place the mould on the ice or TURBAN DE RECHES LA MODERNE. in a very cool place, till set, then turn out on a cold dish. Fill the centre with a compote of peaches, and mask with a little nicely tlavoured syrup. Garnish with halves of glace cherries and fanci- fully cut angelica leaves, surmount with a pastry croustade iilled \vith whipped cream, and serve. Peches a la Montreuil. Halves of peaches stewed in maraschiiK) syrup, dressed in centre of a semolina border, served hot or cold. Peches a la Melba. Halves of peaches cooked in vanilla syrup, Iilled with vanilla cream ice, and dressed in pyramidal form on a border of Genoise or other light cake. The fruit must be sauced over with a rich raspberry syrup, and sprinkled over with almond chips. Biscotins aux Peches. 6 .stewed peaches, i lb. Genoese cake (baked in a Hat tin), 1 pint cream, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, ^ gill wine jelly, 4 oz. ground almonds, I tablespoonfnl kirsch, i oz. castor sugar, a few drops of liquid carmine. Skin the peaches carefully (preserved peaches will do iricely for this dish), and drain on a sieve, bake the ground almonds in a cool oven a pale brown colour, let cool, mi.x with a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, a little castor sugar, and the kirsch, work it to a smooth paste, and with it hll the halves of peaches. Stamp out some ronnds of Genoese cake with a two-inch paste-cutter, place half a peach on each, filled side down. Wdiip the remainderTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 802 of cream till stiff and add the jelly when nearly cool, flavonr with vanilla essence and a little more sugar, if needed, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, stir on the ice until it commences to set, then cover each peach croute completely with this. Let them set on a wire tray and repeat this operation. When set, dish up neatly on a round dish, and serve. The base of the dish may be decorated with chopped wine jelly. Peches a la Ninette. Small brandied peaches, dressed on macaroons soaked in mara- schino, sauced over with cold custard sauce. Peches Orientale {Iced). Halves of peaches stewed in syrup, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, drained and cooled, filled with raspberry ice, and dressed on shapes of vanilla cream ice. Peches a la Pompadour. Make a custard with one pint milk, three ounces vanilla sugar, three whole and three yolks of eggs, and steam it in a buttered charlotte mould. When cooked, allow the cream to cool, and then unmould it on to a round dish. Biuld round it some biscuits dipped or soaked in kirsch and apricot marmalade. Immerse the peaches (cooked) in a good syrnp flavoured with vanilla, and fix the fruit on top of the biscuits. Decorate with some crystallised fruits, and ser^’e with a strawberry sauce or a kirsch creme. CEufs en Surprise {Imitation Eggs). Choose ten to twelve halves of cooked apricots, large size, drain them well, and place them on a well-tinned baking-sheet. Whisk some lemon-jelly on the ice till frothy, when about to set cover each apricot with this, adding as many layers as are necessary to give them the semblance of whites of eggs. Allow to set on the ice. Cook some semolina or florador in milk, flavour with sugar and vanilla, fill up a border mould, and let cool. Unmould the border on a cold dish, dress the prepared apricots on top, sauce over with a thick syrup, and serve. Dattes aux Amandes (Dates Stuffed with Almonds). Pound four to six ounces of peeled almonds with a few pistachio nuts in a mortar. Add sufficient syrup to form a stiff but smooth paste. Roll this out on a sugared board and cut into oblongs the size of dates. Stone a number of dates and fill with almond paste. When this is done, dip each prepared date into sugar boiled to the crack, i.e. 285 degrees on Senids saccharorncter. Serve as dessert. Note.—Green almonds or French plums can be treated in the same way. Croutes aux Fraises {Strawberry Croiites). 4 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. fecule (potato flour), ;) pint cream, t pint crushed strawberries. Beat the eggs and sugar together in a copper bowl over hot water, until creamy and fairly stiff, then add by degrees the butter803 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. (melted), the Hour, and the fecule. Three-parts hll a buttered timbale mould with the mixture, and bake iu a moderately heated oven. Unmould and let cool, then cut the cake in half (upright), and cut each half into slices about half an inch thick. Bake these slices in the oven so that they acquire a golden colour. Whip the cream till stiff, sweeten, and mix with crushed strawberries. Spread the croLites thickly with this, and arrange them in the form of a border on a round dish. Fill the centre with whipped cream, and decorate suitably. Condoles de Praises [Strawberry Gondolas). Line 12 to 18 small boat-moulds with a paste ihade of 8 oz. flour, 2 oz. icing sugar i dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, 4 oz. butter, and the white of an egg. See that the paste is smooth, and roll it out thinly. Fill the lined moulds with small strawberries, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. When done and cold, coat them with straw- berry jelly. Cut out as many sails from the rice-paper as there are tartlets, and fix one in the centre of each. Tranches de Praises a la Neige. Roll out some puff-paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, and about four inches wide, of oblong shape. Bake two or more strips of paste. When done spread over with a meringue mixture composed of three whites of eggs whisked stiffly, and three ounces castor sugar, and mi.xed with half a pound of very small and dry forest straw- berries or scarlets. Cut into even-sized slices with a wetted knife, and bake again in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold. Praises a la Celestine [Strawberries, Celestine Style). 4 whites of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, i orange, i quart milk, i pint wine jelly (p. 786), I basket strawberries, 4 tablespoonfuls strawberry syrup. Whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and incorporate the finely-grated rind of an orange and the sugar. Bring the milk to the boil, shape some small quenelles with the beaten whites, and poach them in the milk. When done, take them np carefully and drain on a sieve. Meanwhile mix a little strawberry syrup with the jelly, mask with it a border mould, and decorate with whole strawberries (inserting a strip of angelica here and there). Fill up with jelly and more strawberries, and put on the ice to set. Pass the remainder of strawberries through a sieve and boil np with the syrup, which must be well reduced. Unmould the jelly. Dress enough egg quenelles round the edge of the border and fill up the centre with the remainder. Sauce over those in the centre with the reduced syrup when cold, and serve. Praises a la Reine Maud [Iced Strawberry Trifle). Select a pound of large ripe strawberries, renujve the stalks, and put the fruit into a pie-dish ; dredge with vanilla sugar, and add a small glass of kirsch and one of maraschino ; cover, and keep on the ice for about one hour.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK. 8o4 Whip half pint of cream and mix with a similar quantity of vanilla ice. Put the ice in a silver fruit bowl, and range the strawberries neatly on top. Garnish with a few crystallised violets to form a neat border, and send to table quickly. Flan de Praises a la Suisse {Swiss Strawberry Tart). Roll out some puff paste (feuilletage) about one-eighth of an inch thick. Line with it a flan ring, place it on a baking-sheet, ornament the edges, prick the bottom of the paste to prevent blistering whilst baking. All with raw rice or dried peas, and cook till done. Pick some ripe straw- berries — scarlet or forest straw- berries are best —mix them care- fully with a few drops of kirschwasser and some castor sugar. Remove the rice or peas from the baked tart crust, and fill with the prepared fruit, and force a neat lattice design of meringue on top, bake for about ten minutes. When cool, force out some red- currant jelly in the centre of the decoration. Bordure aux Praises a la Madrid {Strawberry Border). I pint vanilla bavarois (p. 771), -3- pint whipped cream, i oz. vanilla sugar, I oz. best rice, cooked in milk, a small punnet of scarlet strawberries, I gill of well-reduced wine jelly. Cook a handful of strawberries in a jar without water, sweeten, and strain two to three tablespoonfuls of this into the well-reduced jelly. Wash and cook the rice in milk, add a little sugar, and stir into the bavarois. Mask one or two border moulds with the prepared jelly (the latter must be a pretty red colour), decorate with picked strawberries and angelica. Stir about half the cream into the rice and bavarois custard, and when cool enough pour this into the prepared border moulds. Place it on the ice to set. To serve, unmould it on a round entremet dish, fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream mixed with the remainder of strawberries, and send to table. Marrons au Moka {Chestnuts with Coffee Cream). 3 dozen large chestnuts (Spanish), 4 oz. sugar, 4 pint black coffee, i gill double cream, 3 egg-yolks, i inch vanilla pod. Slit the chestnuts, boil them long enough to remove the shells and inner skins, put them in a stew-pan with enough water to cover, add the vanilla pod and three ounces of sugar, cook until they are quite soft without breaking, and drain on a sieve. Put the vanilla pod in with the coffee, add the remainder of the sugar and theCOLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 80s cream when nearly boiling, stir in the egg-yolks, and work o\^er the fire till it begins to thicken, then strain. Dish up the chestnuts and pour the prepared sauce over them. Serve cold with whipped cream, if liked. Timbale de Marrons a ITmperatrice {Chestnut Timbale). Boil half a pound of peeled chestnuts in milk, flavoured with vanilla and sugar. When tender, pound and pass through a fine sieve. Mix the puree with half a gill of syrup, slightly strengthened with gelatine—2 to 4 sheets. Have ready a mould coated with wine jelly and decorated. Mask the interior thickly with the pre- pared puree and fill the centre with rice cooked in milk, flavoured with cream, fruit, and vanilla sugar. Place on the ice for two hours and serve with whipped cream. Flan aux Fruits {French Fruit Tart). Any kind of fruit can be used for this dish, but strawberries, apricots, prunes, plums, pears, and apples are the most favoured. Roll out about half-pound short-crust paste or pate duchesse (pp. 133-4), not too thinly, and line with it a flan ring or pastry hoop, placed on a baking-sheet, prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, shape and flake the edges with a paste-clip. Fill with dried peas or rice, and bake partially, remove the peas or rice, and arrange the fruit as neatly as possible in the crust. Strawberries and other soft fruit are put in whole, plums and apricots are cut in halves or quarters, whilst pears and apples must be peeled and cut into slices or quarters. Bake long enough to cook the fruit, sprinkle freely with sugar, or glaze over with a suitably flavoured reduced fruit syrup. Flan de Fraises meringue a la Parisienne {Open Strawberry Tart with Meringue). I lb. of small, firm, but ripe strawberries, 3 oz. of castor sugar, about -1 lb. of short crust, the whites of 2 eggs. Line a pastry ring (6 inches in diameter) with the short crust, place on a baking-sheet, fill with dried peas or rice, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven. Wipe and prepare sufiicient strawberries to fill the ring, arrange the fruit closely in one layer in the baked crust (being careful to remove previously all the rice8o6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. or peas used during the baking) and when nearly baked add about one ounce of castor sugar to the fruit. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix with castor sugar, spread the meringue mixture quickly over the surface, and brown slightly in the oven. Serve when cold. Oranges glacees a la Napolitaine {Jellied Oranges). 4 to 6 fine even-sized oranges, vanilla custard, wine jelly, spinach greening, I glass green chartreuse. Wipe the oranges, make an incision on top of each with a pastry- cutter about one inch and quarter in diameter, remove the covers with a small knife, and lay them aside till later. Scoop out the centre of the oranges with a small teaspoon, being careful not to break the skin (the pulp may be used for some other purpose). Arrange the orange-shells in a tin, place the tin in a basin or tub surrounded with broken ice. Fill the oranges in alternate layers with vanilla cream and jelly, the latter being prepared in two colours, red and green, being flavoured with raspberry and curagoa or chartreuse. Each layer must be set before the other is poured in. Fix on the cover before the top layer is set. When well set and firm, cut the oranges carefully into quarters (this is best done with a knife dipped in hot water), dress them on a dish with a folded napkin or dish-papers, and serve. Genoise Cake {Genoese Mixture for Gateaux, etc.). -I lb. butter, i lb. castor sugar, the finely chopped thin rind of half a lemon, 5 small eggs, lb. sifted flour, teaspoonful vanilla essence. Put the butter in a warm basin and work it with a wooden spoon till creamy, then add the lemon rind and sugar, and beat these together until quite white : it will take about fifteen minutes. Stir in one by one the yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix these with the flour into the above. Lastly add the vanilla essence. Put the mixture in a flat, well-buttered cake-tin or saute-pan, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Cornets de Nougat a la Creme. 1 lb. sweet almonds, lb. sugar, lemon, i gill cream, vanilla sugar, pistachio kernels for garnish. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds finely, put them on a baking-sheet and bake in a cool oven a fawn colour. Put half a pound of castor sugar in a copper pan, add the strained juice of half a lemon, cook until it is a light brown, add the shredded almonds, stir well, and let boil again. Pour quickly on to an oiled marbled slab, stamp out some very thin circles about two and a half inches in diameter. Wrap each quickly round an oiled cornet tin, put in a second mould so as to keep in shape. Remove when cool, whip the cream, sweeten with a little vanilla sugar, fill the cornets with this, sprinkle over with a few chopped pistachio kernels, and serve. The edges of the cornets look better CORNET TIN.807 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. if garnished with little beads of royal icing. These cornets can also be Irlled with ice cream or any kind of sweet custard, and will thus make a pleasant change. Gateaux Savigny. 8 eggs, lb. castor sugar, 2 inches vanilla pod, 6 oz. almonds (sweet), 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. flour, coffee icing, almond cream or almond icing. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred them coarsely, and place them on a baking-sheet in the oven until of a fawny brown. Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar and the vanilla, beat up with a wooden spoon until creamy, stand the basin in a vessel of hot water over the hre, and whisk until it has the appearance of a Genoese mixture. Take out the vanilla, add the almonds, and mix in gradually the sifted flour and melted butter. Put the preparation in a well-buttered saute-pan, bake in a slow oven for about twenty-hve minutes, turn out and let cool. Divide the gateau into two rounds, take out a little of the soft crumbs, spread with a light almond cream or icing, close together neatly, cut into any desired shapes, diamonds, hngers or ovals, mask the surface with fondant icing Havoured witli coffee, and sprinkled over with hnely chopped roasted or Iraked almonds. Supreme de Framboise {Raspberry Cake). Prepare a cake mixture as for “ Gateau.x Savigny,” bake it in a buttered plain mould. Let cool, and take out some of the soft portion of the cake. Place the cake shape on a tray, and mask the outside with orange icing, or any other transparent o r fondant icing. Dish up, ornament the sides with red-currant jelly, forced through a cornet, angelica strips, halves of glace cherries, and pistachios, similar to the design shown in the illustration. Fill the interior of the cake with alternate layers of ripe raspberries and whipped cream on the tojy arrange neat rows of best fruit, built upon cream, and serve. Gateau a la Reine {Queen Cake). Cream \ lb. of fresh butter with h lb. of castor sugar, add one by one six yolks of eggs, four ounces ground almonds, and six ounces of Vienna flour, flavour with vanilla or lemon, and stir in the beaten whites of three eggs. Lastly add it gill whipped cream and a few candied violets or orange flowers. Butter a spiral-shaped mould, dredge with fine sugar, fill up, and bake in a moderate oven. WhenTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. So8 done, unmonld, mask with aj^ricot marmalade, and ice with mara- schino icing. Decorate tastefully. Gateau de Savoie a la Chantilly {Savoy Cake with Cream). Separate seven whites of eggs from the yolks, placing the whites in a copper egg-bowl and the yolks in a white basin, add half a pound of j)owdered sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence and work well together until it has a light creamy appearance. Sift half a pound of dried flour on to a plate. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, whisk them into a stiff froth, and mix them and the flour carefully alternately in small quantities with the yolks, etc. Pour into a well-greased and sugared border mould, tie a paper band round and above the edge of the mould, and bake in a very slow oven for about half an hour. When done, turn out on a sieve to get cool. When ready for serving, whisk half a pint or more of double cream. Sweeten slightly wath vanilla sugar, place the hordiire on a round dish, dress the cream in the centre, and serve. Gateau de Praises en Surprise {Iced Strawberry Cake). 8 eggs, 8 oz. castor sugar, lO oz. sifted flour, 8 oz. ground and sifted almonds, 10 oz. butter, chocolate icing and royal icing, lo wafer cornets, about i quart strawberry ice cream, i oz. chopped pistachio, custard for filling cornets. Break the eggs into a copper bowl or basin, add the sugar, and whip well for a few minutes. Stand it over a stew-pan with boiling water and beat vigorously with a whisk for about twenty minutes. Butter and flour a large saute-pan or deep square baking- sheet. When the mixture is sufflcient- ly worked, stir in by degrees the sifted flour, the sifted ground almonds, and the butter (melted), mix care- fully but well, pour into the tin and bake in a moder- ately hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When cold cut out as many rounds as are required, but they must be cut successively smaller and smaller. Stamp out the centre of each round thus obtained to form rings about an inch or one and a half inch broad, leaving the largest and the smallest ones whole. The largest will form the bottom and the smallest the top809 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. of the “gateau.” Ha^'C some apricot jam made liquid, place the large round on a dish, s])read botli upper and nnder surface of the rings with apricot jam and fix them together to form a pyramid. Allow the gateau to set, and coat the outside with chocolate icing. Ornament with royal icing to taste. Do mfi fix on the top piece. Fill the cornets with a previously prepared custard (creme patissiere), sprinkle the tops with chopped pistachio kernels, fasten them, by means of a little icing, in a row round the gateau. When the dish is wanted for table, remove the top piece and fill with well-frozen strawberry cream ice, replace the top, and serve. The chocolate icing can be substituted by strawberry fondant or orange fondant icing. Gateau Czarina. Weigh half a pound of honey and put it in a copper egg-bowl with eight fresh eggs. Beat this over a pan of boiling water till it becomes creamy. To this add two ounces pounded sweet almonds, also one ounce baked and pounded hazel-nuts. Incorporate gradu- ally two ounces of rice-fiour or finely ground rice, two ounces fine oatmeal, and four ounces nut-brown butter, flavour with orange- flower water. Pour this into a buttered flat cake mould and bake in a moderate oven. When the cake is cold cut it open and fill with a layer of burnt almond cream custard, flavoured with ktimmel, ice it with deep coloured orange fondant icing, and decorate it tastefully with glace royale. Gateau St. Emilion. Prepare a Genoese paste mixture, see that it is well beaten, and add one ounce of chopped baked almonds. Three-parts fill a well- buttered fancy cake mould with this, bake it in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes or longer, according to the size of the mould. Set the cake on a sieve to cool, then cut off the top slice and scoop out the centre part of the cake. Fill the cavity with a rich caramel bavarois (p. 771), flavoured, in addition to vanilla, with half a table- spoonful of kirschwasser and a tablespoonful of maraschino liqueur. The bavarois must be on the point of setting, and just before adding it stir in a few blanched or shredded pistachio nuts and some glace cherries cut in quarters. Allow it to set in a cool place, replace the top slice of cake, and mask the whole with a moka icing. Decorate taste- fully, and ser-\^e as cold dinner or luncheon sweet. Moka Icing for Gateaux. Sieve about ten ounces of icing sugar through a sieve into a8io THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. basin and work in one teaspoonfnl of kirscliwasser and one tea- spoonfnl of strong coffee essence or a tablespoonful of freshly-made strong coffee. Stir over the fire till dissolved, and pour over the cake while warm. If coffee essence is used, a little water should be added, else the icing will be too stiff. Gateaux a la Regence {Regent Cakes). Make a light paste with the following ingredients : Six ounces flour (sifted), four ounces ground almonds, six ounces castor sugar, two eggs, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind. Flour the paste-board, and roll out the paste to two round shapes. Stamp out each with a large round cutter, roll out the trimmings and cut it into half-inch strips, fix these round the edge of the paste to form borders. Spread the centre of the paste with dissolved apricot marmalade, and fill up with the following ; Pound in a mortar six ounces blanched and dried almonds, add one white of egg and three yolks, some lemon-juice, and six ounces castor sugar. When quite smooth, work in the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiff froth, also four ounces of sifted flour. See that the gateaux are well and evenly sjjread with this mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about thirty minutes. Gateau de Pommes a la Bavaroise {Bavarian Apple Cake). ^ lb. piiff-paste, I lb, apple puree, 6 oz. loaf sugar, i teaspoonful of cinna- mon, pint cream, \ oz. gelatine, } pint kirsch jelly, 4 oz. glace cherries, apricot marmalade and angelica for garnish. Roll out the paste, and line with it a plain buttered timbale or charlotte mould, prick the bottom and side of the paste with a fork, line with buttered paper, fill up with rice, brush the edges with egg, and place on a cover of paste. Bake this in the oven to a light brown colour, when done remove the cover carefully and put aside to cool, empty the mould, and let the paste lining cool.COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Make a syrup with the sugar and one gill of water, add the gelatine, previously soaked, and the apple puree, flavour with the cinnamon, stir till cool, add the cherries cut into dice, the jelly, liquid but cold, and hnally the cream whipped. Fill the paste crust with this, place on the cover, and stand on the ice. FInmould on to a cold dish. Mask over the shape with dissolved apricot and marmalade mixed with a little jelly, then decorate with angelica slices and halves of glace cherries, and triangular slices of set jelly. Gateau St. Georges au Marron. I lb. marrons glaces, ,J gill maraschino. 1 lb. peeled muscat grapes compote, 1- pint cream, 3 yolks of eggs, i gill syrup, a cake shape round of Genoise (p. 806). Prepare a light cream (mousse character) with about half the chestnuts (marrons), the cream, and egg-yolks. Stir the egg-yolks into a gill of boiling syrup and allow to bind, then mix in the chestnut puree, flavour with maraschino, and add enough sweet jelly to stiffen the mixture a little, when cool incorporate about two-thirds of the cream, previously whipped and sweetened with vanilla sugar, finally stir in gently half the grapes, reserving the rest for garnishing. Keep this preparation on the ice for two hours. Hollow out the centre of the Genoise cake, soak or sprinkle the inside of the cake shape with maraschino syrup. To serve, fill the cake shapes with the prepared cream, giving it a dome-shaped appearance, cover the top with peeled and stoned grapes, and decorate the edge with chestnut glace and whipped cream forced through a fancy forcing tube. The dish is then ready, and should be served with a boat of rich fruit syrup. Gateau Trois Freres. -h lb. castor sugar, 8 large eggs, -J- lb. butter, i lemon, 6 oz. flour, blanched and peeled almonds, pistachios, angelica, and glace cherries, apricot marmalade. Put the sugar in a clean basin or a copper egg-bowl, add gradu- ally the yolks of eight eggs and the butter, work till it resembles a creamy substance, add tlie finely-grated rind of a lemon and half its juice (strained). Whisk the whites of egg till stiff, and stir (fold) in carefully with the flour, which should be previously sifted. Pour the mixture into a trois freres mould or, failing this, use a fancy cake mould, and bake in a moderately hot oven from forty to forty-five minutes. Coat the cake, whilst still warm, witlr some dissolved apricot marmalade, using a brush for the purpose. Decorate with strips of almonds, pistachios, angelica, and cherries. Timbale Rustique aux Praises glacees {Iced Strawberry Timbale). Prepare a Genoese cake mixture with 7 yolks and 2 white of eggs, 5 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. flour, i oz. cornflour, i dessertspoonful of vanilla essence, 2 oz. of ground almonds (made on the hot Genoese principle). Butter two or three plain cake tins, fill them with the mixture, and bake the cakes. When cold cut out the centre part of one cake, leaving the bottom intact, and cut out the centre of the other cakes completely. Fix them together on the top of the first cake with a little royal icing. Brush over the outside of the cake withTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 8i2 dissolved apricot marmalade, flavoured with a little maraschino or other liqueur, then mask them carefully with chocolate icing. With the prongs of a fork shape the icing so as to give the whole TIMBALE RUSTIQUE AUX PRAISES GLACEES. the resemblance of the trunk of a tree, sprinkle a little chopped pistachio here and there to look like moss. Glaze one of the cake tops with plain royal icing to be used as lid. Mark the iced part when set by means of dissolved chocolate, with lines to resemble the cut end of a tree trunk. Fix the shape on a dish by the help of a little icing, let it set in the oven, then put aside xmtil cold. Have ready a pint of vanilla ice and mix it with a gill of whipped cream, line the inside of the cake shape with it, and put in fresh ripe strawberries, with alternate layers of cream ice. See that the top layer is com- posed of strawberries, put on the lid, and send to table at once. Savarin a la Charivari. Prepare and bake a savarin border (p. 756). When cold, soak it slightly with a syrup, flavoured richly with maraschino, chart- reuse, and curacoa, and ice over with lemon-flavoured transparent icing. Fill the centre with partially-set cream and custard mixed with glace or crystallised fruits, all cut into thin slices. Arrange the cream in the form of a dome. Decorate with a little red-currant jelly, and set the dish on the ice till wanted for table. Sand-Torte {Tourte SaUee). lb. fresh Initter, | lb. castor sugar, 8 eggs, lb. best Vienna flour mixed with a small quantity of potato and corn flour, oz. grated chocolate, 1- lemon, I teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, i liqueur glass old rum. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add separately the yolksCOLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 813 of eggs, and continue to beat for about twenty minutes. Work in the finely-grated rind of half a lemon, cinnamon, rum, and lastly the Hour. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in. Half fill a well-buttered and floured cake mould with the mixture, sprinkle over the grated chocolate, then add the remainder of the mixture and smooth the surface with a palette- knife. Bake in a moderate oven for about fifty minutes. Unmould, let cool, and cover with water icing. Decorate tastefully with creamed butter or royal icing and glace fruit. Gateau au Chocolat {Chocolate Cake). lb. fresh butter, lb. castor sugar, lb. grated chocolate, 11’- Vienna flour (sifted), 4 eggs, i oz, ground rice, teaspoonful vanilla essence, chocolate icing. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the grated chocolate, work in the eggs one at a time, add the flour and ground rice, and lastly the vanilla flavouring. Beat the mixture for at least ten m i n u t e s . Fill a well- buttered ga- teau mould and bake for abont three - quar- ters of an hour in a moderately heated oven. When done, turn out on a sieve and let cool, cover with chocolate icing, and decorate to taste with glace royale. Note.—The same mixture put into a buttered pudding-mould and steamed for one and a half honr will make a very delicious pudding. Chocolate Icing. (Duplicate recipe, see p. 139.) Put four ounces of chocolate on a plate in the oven to soften, put it in a stew-pan with half a pound of icing sugar, moisten with half a gill of water, and stir over the fire until quite hot and smooth. This mixture must be very hot, but should not be allowed to boil. Gateau Mille-feuilles. 1 lb. best puff-paste (p. 133). pint vanilla bavarois set in a plain moTilcl, 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls strawberry or raspberry jam, i oz. chopped pistachios, royal icing, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut out a number of rounds, the first being about the size of a plate, and the remaining ones gradually smaller in size. Put them on a wetted baking-sheet, mix the royal icing with the ground cinna- mon, and s])read the surface of each round of paste witli a thin layer of this. Bake in a fairly hot oven a golden brown and let ccm)1.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the latter, being previously set on the ice and unmoulded, can be cut into slices of suitable size. Arrange them on top of each other, the largest round at the bottom and the smallest on top. Decorate the whole according to taste with glace royale, chopped pistachios, and glace cherries, if liked. Place it in a very hot oven for a few minutes only, so as to set the icing. The gateau is then ready for serving. Poires a la Hirondelle {Pears, Hirondelle Style). J lb. savarin paste, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, i gill preserved or fresh raspberries, oz. pistachios, 12 small even-sized pears, y pint syrnp, I pint vanilla cream ice, |- gill tvhipped cream, some spun sugar for garnish. Have ready a fairly stiff savarin paste (p. 756), roll it out round about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Butter a set of special nest wire baskets, sprinkle thickly with brown crumbs, place in the paste, and set it to prove for fifteen minutes, then close the apparatus, plunge it into hot clarified butter, and fry to a golden colour. Take up, undo the wire basket, and place the fried nest shape on a tray to cool. Trim off the edges neatly, sprinkle over the whole with icing sugar, coat the edges with dis- solved apricot marmalade, and besprinkle with chopped pistachios to form a pretty border. Peel the pears, and cook them till tender in syrup, then put them on the ice. Mix the raspberries with some of the syrup, and reduce somewhat, flavour to taste, strain, and place this on the ice also. To dress, drain the pears, removing the stems and inserting strips of angelica instead. Fill the basket shape of pastry with the vanilla ice, upon this place a neat layer of sweetened whipped cream, range the pears neatly on top, and sauce over carefully with the raspberry syrup. Garnish to taste with spun sugar or otherwise, and serve at once. Poires a la Princesse. Small pears, stewed whole in a rich syrup ; remove natural stem and replace with strips of angelica. Dress them on a Genoise border, previously masked with apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with spun sugar (p. 132), and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. Poires glacees {Iced Pears). Select pears of even size, peel them very thinly and carefully hollow out the centre. Prepare a light syrup strongly flavoured8iS COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. with lemon-juice, cook the pears in this till tender, drain and cool on a sieve. Have ready some vanilla ice. liavoured with pear-j)uree made with the pulp of pear removed. Insert a stem of angelica into each pear, and place them on the ice for a while. When ready for serving fill the hollow parts with the prepared ice ; dish u]) tastefully and serve. Note.—Peaches, nectarines, and large apricots may be treated in a similar way. Poires a la Florentine. This dish consists of compote .of pears, dressed on a bed of cooked semolina, flavoured with vanilla, sauced over with apricot marmalade. Dariolettes a la Chantilly, Prepare a light frying batter (p. 135) or a thick pancake batter. Have ready some hot clarified butter or dripping, dip a dariole fryer (that is, a small copper dariole-mould fixed on to a handle) into the fat and then into the batter so as to completely mask the outside of the mould. Fry in hot fat to a golden colour, then take up and remove the case carefully, continue until the necessary number are fried. Put a teaspoonful of apricot marmalade, fl.rvoured with a little maraschino or kirsch, into each case or dariolette. Mix an ounce of ground almonds with half a gill of thick syrup and a gill of whipped cream, and fill the cases with this. Dredge with grated chocolate or ground cinnamon, and serve. Denises a la Jalousie. 1 lb. rough puff or puff (feuilletage) paste, confectioner’s custard flavoured with almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade. Cut the paste into three parts, roll out rather thin into oblong strips, about two and a half inches wide. Trim the edges, and see that the strips of paste are of equal size. Place one piece on a baking-sheet, spread over with a thin layer of dissolved apricot marmalade, cover with the second piece, spread the centre of the paste with a layer of confectioner’s custard, being careful to leave about half an inch margin all round. Cut the third piece of paste into narrow strips, lay them across in two ways, in the form and shape of lattice-work, fix the ends of paste with a little water or egg, and run a narrow band of paste round the edge to form a border, pinch the edges with a paste-notcher or gauffre tool, in order to decorate the border. Bake in a fairly hot oven, when done and still hot brush over with liquefied marmalade. Cut into convenient slices when cold. Parfaits de Biscuit en Gelee. I pint wine jelly, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 2 tablespoonfuls double cream, i small Genoese cake (p. 806), i tablespoonful kirsch liqueur, glace cherries and angelica. Take six to eight dariole moulds, mask the insides with a thin coating of jelly, and decorate with some fine strips of angelica and glace cherries. Mix the cream with sufiicient cold liquid jelly toTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 8i6 make it set, put an equal portion into each mould to cover decorated part of the moulds. Cut out the Genoese cake into slices the shape of the mould, only somewhat smaller, divide each into three or four thin slices, and spread both sides with a mixture of apricot mar- malade and kirsch, the former should be made liquid before the kirsch is added. Place two slices together, and set into the moulds alternately with a thin layer of jelly. Continue thus until the moulds are filled. Pour some half-set jelly round the sides of the moulds, so as to completely fill them. Set on the ice for an hour or two. Immerse in tepid water, unmould, and dish up on a I'ound dish, surround with a little chopped red jelly, and serve. Jambon de Careme (Imitation Ham). This cold sweet, made in the shape of a ham out of Genoese pastry, is very popular in France during Lent. Several layers of Genoese are fixed together with apricot marmalade and whipped cream between some layers. The whole is then cut to resemble a ham and coated over with chocolate icing. The bone is imitated with almond paste or marzipan. The dish is garnished with wine jelly, chopped up or cut into fanciful shapes. Medallions de Peches a la Sirdar. Prepare a pint of claret jelly, strain and put it into a fancy border mould, and place on the ice to set. Line ten or more medaillon moulds with a thin layer of wine or maraschino jelly, decorate each with a star-and-crescent shape of angelica or hard-boiled sweetened white of egg (cut rather thinly), mask this with a layer of strawberry or raspberry cream. Cut out some slices of Genoese cake (p. 806) as near as possible the size of the moulds, mask each slice with puree made from fresh peaches, sweetened and flavoured with a little kirsch, place them in the moulds and fill up the centres with jelly. When set, unmould. Dress them upon the border of claret jelly, the centre of which having been previously filled with a fruit salad, pipe some whipped cream neatly over the top, and sprinkle with chopped pistachios. Huitres en Surprise. Line eight to ten small oyster moulds with a thin layer of mara- schino jelly, coat the inner shape, viz. the oyster, with a layer of sweet chaud-froid sauce (p. 173), blended with a little peach or apricot puree, upon this place a macaroon, as near as possible the shape of the oyster. Sprinkle a little maraschino or benedictine liqueur on each macaroon and mask with more chaud-froid sauce. Finish filling the little moulds with a rather pale coffee or moka cream or, if preferred, a chocolate bavarois (p. 771), and place on the ice to set. To serve, unmould the oyster shapes carefully, and hand them round on oyster plates, with thinly-cut slices of chocolate cake (buttered), or arrange them on a dish, which garnish with quarters of lemons and sprigs of crisp parsley. OYSTER MOULD.8.7 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. which can be imitated with angelica soaked in warm water, and cnt into line strips and curled. Cotelettes Vatel en Surprise (Imitation Cutlets). Roll and stamp ont on a floured board twelve thin heart-shapes of fenilletage paste, put a teaspoonful of apricot marmalade on .me side of each, and about half a teaspoonful of soft almond paste on top, wet the edges, fold over, press down the edges well, and give them the shape of cutlets as near as possible. Put them on a baking-sheet and bake, when cold coat the cakes with dissolved apricot marmalade, and roll them in crushed macaroons. Have ready some short pieces of baked almond paste, insert one in the small end of each to imitate bones, make a skewer red-hot and imitate the gridiron marks. Dish up the cakes in a circular form on a thin layer of apricot marmalade ; pour some melted red- currant jelly, when nearly cold, in the centre, and serve. This is a very effective dish, but needs some practice in the shaping of cutlets. Moscovite aux Mandarines. I pint orange jelly, i small glass of cura5oa, 8 mamlarins or small tan- gerines, J pint cream, f- pot of orange jelly, i round of Genoese cake, i o-. of pistachios. Line a plain timbale mould with a layer of orange jelly flavoured with curacoa, sprinkle over the jellied sides a little finely shredded orange-rind, and place the mould on the ice. Peel the mandarins, divide into sections, free from white pith and pips. Dip them into liquefied but nearly cold jelly, with them build up the sides of the mould and mask with a thin layer of jelly. Whisk the remainder 3FTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. of the jelly till frothy, add the cream also whisked, and finally stir in about three tablespoonfnls of orange marmalade and mandarin sections left over, but cut into small pieces. Fill the prepared mould with this, and put on the ice. Trim the Genoese, mask with reduced jelly and orange marmalade, besprinkle the side and part of the edge with peeled chopped pistachio kernels, and place the round of cake on a flat dish. Unmould the orange shape on to the prepared cake, and serve. Napolitaines a la Suisse. l lb. castor sugar, 4 eggs, lb. butter, i gill of milk, pinch of carbonate of soda, a little pounded nutmeg, i teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, 10 oz. best flour, 2 oz. sweet almonds, pnff-paste trimmings, macaroon or almond paste, greengage and apricot jam, i tablespoonful ground chocolate, a few drops of liquid carmine. Cream the butter and sugar well, beat in the eggs one at a time ; add the nutmeg, lemon-rind, carbonate, and flour, and mix well. Divide the mixture into three portions, colour two portions respec- tively pink (carmine) and brown (ground chocolate). Spread the three lots separately, about half an inch in thickness, on a paper- lined baking-sheet, bake in a slow oven, without letting it take colour, and put aside to cool. Roll out into a square strip about half a pound of puff paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, prick it here and there to prevent blistering, bake in a hot oven, cut it in half, and spread over with dissolved apricot jam. Cut the coloured cake into strips the width of the puff paste, lay them alternately across one-half of the puff paste until the whole surface is covered. Roll out some almond paste, and put a thin layer over the strips, spread over with greengage jam, repeat the layers of strips as before, taking care that the strips laid over are of a different colour to those first placed, so that if the first is pink the next should be brown, and if yellow, the next should be pink or brown, and so on. Cover with a thin layer of apricot jam, and, last of all, another layer of almond paste. Put the other half of puff paste on top to cover the whole, press it between two boards with weights on top, let it remain for about two hours, then remove weights and board, spread a layer of meringuage over the surface, sprinkle with shredded almonds, place the cake in the oven long enough to set the meringue mixture, and cut into convenient pieces. Meringues a la Chantilly. 5 whites of eggs, i lb. castor sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls vanilla sugar, about I pint cream. Carefully separate the yolks from the whites, put the latter in a copper egg-bowl with a pinch of salt, whisk slowly at firs-t, increasing the speed until it becomes a hard froth. Mix in quickly, but sparingly at first, the castor sugar and one dessertspoonful of vanilla sugar. Put the mixture into two large paper cornets or a forcing-bag (not quite full). If paper cornets are used, cut off the point ends, close the large end, and press out on to a paper-lined baking-sheet even sized egg-shapes, dust with sugar, and bake in8.9 COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. a very slack oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Remove tlie sliells from the paper, press down carefully the inside, and dry in a cool oven. Fill the shells with whipped cream, sweetened with vanilla sugar, place them together in the usual way, dish up, and serve. Meringue shells thus made, may be kept for several days, but should be put in a tin box in a dry place. (For other Meringues see Chapter XL., “ Patisserie.”) Pommes de Terre au Nid {Potatoes in Nest). Boil uj) ?r pint of milk with i oz. of sugar and a piece of vanilla pod. Stir in ifr oz. of cornflour previously mixed with a little cream. Continue to stir the mixture over the fire, cook for about ten minutes, take out the vanilla, pour it into a buttered savarin border mould, and place it on the ice. With a Genoese or sponge biscuit mixture shape on to a buttered baking-tin some small rounds about in. size (diameter). Bake them in a fairly hot oven. When cooled scoop out some of the interior of each biscuit, fill the cavities with confectioner’s custard or whipped cream, place them together in twos, and give them as near as possible the shape of new potatoes. Next wrap each into a thin piece of almond paste, and shape them, then roll in grated chocolate, and mark each here and there with the point of a wooden skewer. Unmould the prepared border shape on to a dish, mask it completely with a thick layer of whipped and sweetened cream, with the prongs of a fork shape into nest pattern. Sprinkle the surface with finely chopped pistachios. Place the prepared potato shapes in the centre of the dish, dredge with icing sugar mixed with a little ground cinnamon, and serve. Nougats and Croquants. These are generally known as pieces de confiserie, belonging to the high art of confectionery. Both are comparatively easy to prepare. Nougats are made by boiling two parts of sugar to hard crack or pale caramel, mixed with one part of shredded almonds. This preparation is then rolled out on an oiled marble slab and formed by means of oiled moulds into desired shapes, which are subsequently filled with whipped and sweetened cream, ice or custard. Croquants are made by boiling sugar to the crack, and dipping fruit, such as sections of oranges, nectarines, peaches, etc., into the sugar. They are then placed in rows inside buttered moulds, with glace or candied cherries in between the fruits used, so as to obtain a perfect shape. The top may be finished with a sheet of boiled sugar marzipan, while the centre is filled with ice or whipped cream. Spun or pulled sugar is used for garnishing according to taste. Vol-au-vent de Fruits a la Versailles. Blanch 4 oz. of rice and cook in syrup flavoured with mara-820 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. schino. Make a salad of finely cut green almonds, glace cherries, oranges, preserved peaches, and apricots, mixed with maraschino syrup. Have ready a vol- au-vent shape of pastry nicely baked, scoop out the cen t r e soft portion, a r - range in it the rice and fruit salad in alter- nate lay e r s. Spread over the su r f a c e with whipped and sweet- glace cherries. ened cream, garnish with rings of angelica and Serve cold. Buche de Noel en Surprise ( Yule Log en Surprise). Prepare a Genoese mixture and bake it in an oblong sandwich tin. When cold pare or trim like the trunk of a tree, fill the inside with almond cream, fix on two or three pieces of Swiss roll at end to imitate knots, and cover with chocolate icing. The centre must be hollowed out sufficiently large to take in a thin souffle dish lining. Boil lb. sugar to a syrup, add 2 egg-yolks, the juice of I lemon, i gill of whipped cream, the whites of 2 eggs, ^ oz. of dissolved gelatine, oz. of crushed crystallised violets or rose leaves, and a small glass of curacoa. Decorate with stems made of pulled sugar and angelica leaves. To give the trunk a more realistic appearance use the prongs of a fork and pass it over the surface before the icing is quite set ; the cut ends should be coated with royal icing.COLD SWEET ENTREMETS. Baba a rOrientale. Prepare a rich baba or sa\’arin j)aste (p. 756), into wliich incor- porate some stoned raisins and glace fruit cut into dice. Three- parts till a tinted mould, well buttered, which set to jjrovc, and then bake in a fairly hot oven. Ha\’e ready a syrnp Iku'onred with rnm and orange-jnice (well reduced), and soak the baked shape with this. Let it cool and drain well, coat the outside with dissolved apricot marmalade, then mask with a thin coating of fondant or thin royal icing. Decorate with red-currant icily, angelica, glace cherries, and other crystallised fruit. Fill the centre with whipj^ed cream, sweetened and ilavonred with orange, tinted with carmine or else with orange cream ice, and send to table. Chalet Rustique a la Chantilly. 9 whites of eggs, i pinch of salt, lli. castor sugar, i large square of each Genoese and Swiss roll pastn,9 a little royal icing, i pint of clonble cream, I pint vanilla ice, i oz. vanilla sugar, 24 small choux-pastc profiteroles, pistachios, and marzipan pebbles for decoration. Put the whites of eggs in a clean copper bowl with the pinch of salt, and whisk to a very stiff froth, then lightly mix in the sugar. Butter and sugar some copper baking-sheets, and trace out the patterns required to represent four walls and roof of a simple chalet. Put the meringue mixture into a paper cornet or forcing- bag with plain tube, and force it out on to the baking-sheet to cover the traced pattern completely and evenly. Dredge witli castor sugar, and bake in a very cool oven (it will take about three hours to do this properly). When baked and dry, take off the so-termed frame-work, trim a square of Genoese pastry to the size required as base or floor of the chalet. Cover the edges with plain or royal icing, then fi.x up the sides or walls on a suitably shaped block of Genoese with the help of icing, also one half of the roof, the latter may also be provided with a chimney made of meringue or of marzipan. Whip up the cream, and flavour a little of it with strawberry syrup (Praise Sybel) to fill the cavities of the profite- roles. Mix the rest of the cream with the vanilla ice, and add the vanilla sugar. Just before serving fill the meringue chalet with the ice mixture and the profiterole, and place on the other part of the roof. On a dish have ready a suitably trimmed base of Swiss roll pastry, the edges of it being brushed over with apricot mar- malade, and sprinkled with chopped pistachios, and a few small marzipan pebbles. Some of the latter may, if liked, be placed on the roof, which can be so shaped as to imitate thatch. The dish must be served as soon as the ice is put in the chMet shape. Sultane aux Fruits glaces. Prepare a light cake mi.xture (Genoese, p. 806, or Savigny, p. 807), fill it into a buttered plain mould, and bake well. M'hen cold scoop out the centre portion, and place the cake crust near the oven to thoroughly dry it. Mask the outside with white and jnnk icing, as shown in the illustration. Fix the shape on a dish by meansTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 822 of a little royal icing. Bake a thin sheet of Genoese paste, stamp ont little rounds, and ice them over with chocolate icing ; these will be used for decoration. Prepare a well-assorted fruit salad, the fruit to consist of peaches, apricots, pineapple, and bananas or grapes. Mix it with syrup and a little liqueur as flavour, place on the ice for at least two hours. Have ready some vanilla and pineapple ice. Make a lattice-work dome-shape of sugar, boiled to the crack, or, if preferred, make this from nougat. Partially drain the fruit salad, arrange it in the prepared cake crust with layers of pineapple ic£ between each section of fruit. Place the sugar, lattice-shape, on top, and surround the edge with triangular-cut pieces of jelly. Shape as many bouche cups of vanilla ice as there are rounds of Genoese pastry, and place them round the dish, which is then ready for table. Needless to add that the dressing of this dish must be per- formed as quickly as possible, otherwise its artistic effect will be spoilt. Mince Pies. Roll out some rough puff paste (p. 134), one-eighth inch thick, stamp into rounds, and line some small tins, place in each a tea- siioonful of mincemeat, roll out more of the pastry rather thicker than the first lot, stamp into rounds the size of the top of the tins, wet edges, and cover the pies, brush over with milk or water, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. Mincemeat. 4 lb. apples, 6 oz. sugar, lb. figs, oz. ground ginger, rind and juice of 1 lemon, 6 oz. raisins, 6 oz. currants, 4 lb. suet, \ oz. mixed spice, 2 table- spoonfuls brandy or rum. Peel, core, and chop the apples into small pieces, mince the figs, stone and chop the raisins, and clean the currants. Mix all the ingredients together, and keep in a covered jar. Apple Tart [Tarte aux Pornmes). 2 lb. cooking apples, 3 oz. moist sugar, short crust (p. 133). Peel, core, and cut the apples into thick slices, half fill a pie-dish, put in the sugar and then put in the remainder of the fruit. Roll out the paste, cut off a narrow strip and place it round the edgeCOLD SWEET ENTREMETS. 823 not to stretch it, and trim off the rough edges. P>akc in a moderate oven for about thirty to forty minutes. Beat up the white of the egg and brush over top of the tart, sprinkle with castor sugar, and return it to the oven to set. Serve hot or cold. Cornflour Blanc-mange. 2h oz. Brown & Poison’s “Patent” cornflour, i quart milk, lemon-rind, 1 oz. castor sua;ar, i teaspoonful butter. Mix the cornflour to a smooth cream with a little of the milk. Boil the rest of the milk with the lemon-rind, pour it on to the blended cornflour, stir well, add the butter and sugar, return to the saucepan and boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the lemon-rind, and pour into a mould. When cold, turn out and serve with jam or marmalade. Banana Pudding. 3 to 3 bananas, 1 glass brandy or I- juice anil rind of a lemon, i:J- oz. Brown & Poison’s cornflour, i pint of milk, i oz. castor sugar. Peel and slice the bananas, place them in the bottom of a glass dish, put the sugar over, and pour on the brandy or lemon-juice. Blend the cornflour with the milk, boil it for eight minutes, stirring all the time, add the sugar, let it cool, and pour over the bananas. When set, serve. Cream should be handed with it. This prepara- tion can also be moulded, and garnished with sliced bananas. Gooseberry Cheese, 2 lb. of gooseberries (picked), li lb. loaf sugar. Cook the gooseberries with very little water till soft, pass them through a wire sieve, return the pulp to the pan and add the sugar. Stir well, put the pan on the fire, and simmer for half an hour, or till the “ cheese ” looks firm and hard in the spoon. Pour into pots, cover them when cold the same as jam, and store in a dry place. Cherry Tapioca. 2 oz. crushed tapioca, i lb. ripe cherries, 3 oz. sugar. Soak the tapioca for several hours in cold water. Put it in a saucepan with one pint and a half of boiling water. Simmer very slowly till the tapioca is quite cooked. Stone the cherries, add them, with sugar, to the tapioca. Cook till the fruit is tender. Pour it into a glass dish, and when cold serve with custard or whipped cream. Whipped Syllabub. pint of double cream, lemon, 2 whites of eggs, castor sugar to taste, I tablespoonful of brandy or rum. Mix the brandy or rum with the lemon-juice and about half an ounce of castor sugar, add the cream, the whites of eggs stiffly whipped, and a little grated lemon-rind. Set it on the ice for twenty minutes, whisking it all the while, remove the froth as it rises and put it on a hair sieve to drain. Half fill some custard glasses with sherry or marsala wine, or else some nicely flavouredTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 824 custard (chocolate or lemon). Fill the glasses with the froth, sprinkle some crushed macaroons or grated chocolate on the top, and serve. Gooseberry Fool. I quart unripe gooseberries, :} lb. loaf sugar, i pint cream. Put the gooseberries in a clean stew-pan with the sugar and about half a pint of water, let it boil gently for half an hour, rub through a fine sieve and keep the pulp on ice. Add a little more sugar if needed. Whip the cream and mix with the fruit pulp a few minutes before serving. Fill up some little ice glasses or serve in a glass or silver dish. Canary Cream. H pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, i lemon, | oz. leaf gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs. Boil the milk, add the sugar and the thin rind of the lemon. Dissolve the gelatine in a little warm milk, and add it to the above. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the strained juice of half the lemon, mix with the milk, etc., and stir until it thickens, but it must not boil. Strain into a wetted mould, and place on the ice or in a very cool place. Turn out when set, and serve with fruit compote or jam. Chocolate Mould. 4 oz. of chocolate, 3 oz. patent cornflour, i quart of milk, 2 oz. sugar, vanilla. Blend the cornflour smoothly with a little milk. In the re- mainder of the milk dissolve the chocolate, add the sugar and the blended cornflour, and boil for eight minutes, stirring meanwhile. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence, and pour into a wetted mould. Turn out when set, and decorate the dish with whipped cream. Cobourg Trifle. Cut half a dozen sponge cakes into slices, spread them with rasp- berry or apricot jam, and place them together like sandwiches. Arrange them neatly in a glass dish, pour over one glass of good sherry or marsala, and let them soak for about ten minutes. Cover the whole with macaroons, which should be arranged in the form of a pyramid, pour over a gill of rich custard, and garnish with halves of glace cherries. Whisk half a pint of cream till stiff, and cover the whole with it by means of a forcing-bag, decorate tastefully with peeled and shredded sweet almonds, angelica, and cherries. The dish is then ready for serving. Praises a la Melba [Strawberries, Melba Style). Procure a basket of large ripe strawberries, remove the stalks and place the fruit in a basin, pour over a little rich raspberry syrup and keep on the ice for an hour. Three-paits fill a souffle dish with rich vanilla-cream ice and range the strawberries neatly on top of the ice. Decorate to taste, and serve,COLD SWEFA' ENTREMETS. 82s Gateau de Peches a la Rejane. 5 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, i oz. ground almonds, i oz, conillour, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 2 oz, butter, 6 drops vanilla essence, 6 jieaches (compute), apricot marmalade, i gill cream, frangipanc custard, red-currant jelly, chopped grilled almonds, raspberry syiaip, kirsch. For spun sugar : b lb. loaf sugar, lemon-juice, glucose. Cream the yolks of eggs with the castor sugar, add the almonds and the butter, and continue to whisk till the mixture is quite cream- like, then whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add this and the flour, also the vanilla essence. Put it into a well-buttered and floured flat cake tin and bake off. When cold, cnt out neatly the interior of the cake so as to obtain a shell-shaped cake case, bake this further so as to har- den the in - side. Brush over the in- side with dis s o 1 ved apricot and peach mar- malade, also the outside, and cover with coarse- ly chopped a 1 m 0 n d s. Line it with fi'angip a n e c u s t a r d mixed with a little whipped cream ; place in the peaches cut into neat slices (sectional) and coated slightly with well-reduced raspberry syrup flavoured with a little kirsch. Cover the whole with custard and cream ; cream the red-currant jelly, put it into a cornet, and decorate the top with a trellis-work pattern, and garnish with spun sugar, which is made as follows : Dissolve the loaf sugar with a gill of water, add a dessertspoonful of glucose, and cook to 250 degrees Fahr., then add a few drops of lemon-jnice. Let cool a little, and spin the sugar by means of a three-pronged fork into flne shred; gather these np carefully, and place over the gateau. Creme de fruits a la Montfleuri. \ pint cream, i gill milk, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. peeled pistachios, I teaspoonful orange-flower water, \ oz. leaf gelatine, 4 oz. stoned cherries, glac > cherries or angelica for decoration, 8-10 triangular-shaped glace biscuits, 8 yolks of eggs, i b gill wine jelly. Pound the pistachio kernels with a little cream, and rub it through a flne sieve. Boil up the milk, add half the cream, and heat np, then add the pistachio puree. Cream the egg-yolks aud sugar together ; when fairly stiff add the orange-flower water, and826 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. stir in the pistachio cream and the gelatine, previously soaked and melted. Line the inside of a beehive mould with a layer of wine jelly and decorate taste- fully with glace cherries and angelica rings. Whip up there- mainder of fhe cream and add, with the cherries, to the above ; flavour also with a tablespoonful of best rum. Now fill up the prepared mould, and place it on the ice to set. Turn the shape on to a cold round dish. Decorate the base with the triangular-shaped biscuits and slices of red jelly, and serve. Salade de Fruits {Fruit Salad in Glasses). Put into small tumblers, or goblet glasses, layers of strawberries, thin slices of bananas, and stoneless cherries. Mix together half gill syrup, the juice of one lemon (strained), one liqueur glass maraschino, and one liqueur glass of cognac brandy, add a gill or more of sweet clear jelly, pour about a tablespoonful of the mixed liquids over the fruit in each glass. Keep on the ice till required for table. Serve with fancy gateaux or small biscuits. ANANAS A LA MASCOTTE (seC p. 755).827 c n APT i<: R X XXV. GLACE S—IC E S. In French cookery or confectionery language the word glace has a three-fold meaning; anything coated or masked with meat glaze, sugar or syrup is called glace ; but the course known as glaces in this instance refers to sweet juices, pulps, creams or other sweet mixtures w h i c h are by means of artih- cial freezing ren- dered into semi- liquid or solid ice. There are A DOUBLE ICE FREEZING MACHINE. several varieties of ices ; those known as cream and water ices are the most popular ; whilst Souffles, Mousses, Parfaits, Sorbets, Bombes, Poudings glaces and Poudings souffles, being somewhat more complicated, are termed compound ices or iced pre- parations. Sorbets and punches are served before the roast ; ordinary ices, ice pudding, etc., are served after the roast or after the hot sweets, while dessert ices are usually handed round at the time when dessert is served. The Freezing Operation. To make any kind of ice a proper freezing machine is needed. Failing this, an ice-pail and pewter freezing-pot with freezing-pot and sp.atula. spatula will answer the purpose equally well, but it takes somewhat longer. The freezer should be well charged with broken ice and freezing salt (that is, coarse salt) before828 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the actual operation of freezing a mixture can l^e commenced. It takes from lo to 14 lb. of ice and about 4 lb. freezing salt to make from one to two quarts of ice. Glace a la Vanille ( Vanilla Cream Ice). I pint milk, pint cream, 6 yolks of eggs, -J- vanilla pod, 3 to 4 oz. castor sugar. Boil the milk with the vanilla pod, add the sugar. Beat the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir the boiling milk gradu^ly into the eggs, return to the stew-pan, stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the custard clings to the spoon, but do not allow it to boil. Strain, when cool add the cream, and remove the vanilla pod just before freezing. Freeze the custard in the usual way. Vanilla Cream Ice {Another Method). IJ- pint of milk, i heaped-up dessertspoonful cornflour, 4 whole eggs, 5 to 6 oz. castor sugar, I teaspooniul vanilla essence, i gill cream, the juice of i a lemon. Boil the milk, add the sugar, mix the cornflour with a little cold milk, beat up the yolks of eggs, and add to the cornflour. Pour the hot milk gradually on to this, stirring all the time. Return all to the stew-pan, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till it thickens without boiling, then strain, and let cool. Add the strained lemon-juice, the vanilla essence, and the cream. Lastly, wliisk the whites of eggs and add to the mixture. It is then ready for freezing. Glace Napolitaine [Neapolitan Ice). 4 pint of .strawberry or raspberry pulp, i oz. chocolate, 6 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful vanilla essence, 3 pints milk, i pint cream, 6 oz. castor sugar, cochineal, crushed ice, and freezing salt. Work the yolks of eggs with three ounces of sugar until smooth. Boil up the milk, add the remainder of the sugar, and pour on to the egg mixture, stirring vigorously. Return to the stew-pan, stir over a slow fire until it thickens, and strain into a basin. Grate the chocolate, put it in a small stew- pan with a tablespoonful of water, when dissolved, mix about one- third of the custard, work well and let cool. Mix the fruit pulp with half the remainder of the custard, colour with a few drops of cochineal if necessary. Add the vanilla essence with the other half. Divide the cream into equal })roportions with the three kinds of preparations, and freeze each lot sei)arately. Pack in layers in a mould. Cover closely and pack in ice and salt for about two hours. LTnmould, cut into convenient pieces, and serve. NEAPOLITAN ICE MOULD.829 GLACES—ICES. Glace aux Peches {Peach-Water Ice). I pint peach piilji (puree), i pint syrup, the juice of 2 small lemons, I oz. peach kernels, peeled and jiounded. Mix the fruit pul]) with the syrup, boil up, then add the lemon-juice and the peach kernels, strain, freeze, and mould in the usual manner. Note.—The kernels may be omitted if the flavour they impart is not cared for. A few drops of liquid carmine will imjtrove the ('olour. A glass of kirschwasser and half a gill whipped and sweetened cream,' added when partly frozen, are considered an im- jirovement. Glace a 1’Ananas {Pineapple Ice). I small ripe pineapple, i pint syrup, the juice of I large lemon. 1, gill of cream. Rub the fruit through a hue sieve into a basin, add the lemon juice and the syrup, strain, freeze a little, then add the cream and finish freezing. Mould as usual. Glace an Citron {Lemon-Water Ice). 6 lemons, 1 11). loaf sugar, i pint water. Rub the lumps of sugar on the rinds of the lemons so as to obtain some of the zest, put the sugar in a clean stew-jian, add the water, and boil for rather more than ten minutes. Skim, test the consistency by the saccharometer (it should register 220 degrees). Strain the syrup into a basin, add the juice of the lemons (strained), and set aside to cool. The mixture is then ready for freezing, and will make rather more than a pint of ice. Glace a I’Orange {Orange-Water Ice). Peel thinly four lemons and four oranges, pour one and a half pint of hot syrup over the rind, add the juice of both lemons and oranges. Strain, and freeze when cold. A tablespoonful of liqueur, such as cura^oa or benedictine, added to the above will greatly improve the flavour. Freeze and mould as required. Glace au Marasquin {Maraschino Ice). I pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, ] pint cream, 2 glasses mara- schino, ice, and freezing salt. Boil the milk and add the sugar. Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, mix thoroughly, and stir in the hot milk. Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and let it cool. Beat the cream to a froth, and mix with the above, together with the maraschino liqueur. Freeze the preparation in the usual manner. Fill up a mould, cover hermetically, and bury in crushed ice and coarse salt for about two hours. Immerse in cold water, wipe the mould, turn out quickly, and serve on a folded napkin.830 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Glace a la Grappe de Muscat [Muscat Grape Ice). 6 oz. muscatel grapes, pint cream, the juice of a lemon, i white of egg, I liqueur-glass chartreuse, i glass sherry (if liked), i gill syrup. Mash the grapes with being previously removed, this ice.) a wooden spoon, add the syrup, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Strain the lemon-juice into the pulp, put all in a freezer, freeze partially, and mix in the cream, slightly whipped, the white of egg whisked to a stiff froth, and the liqueur, and wine, if liked. Finish freezing, mould or serve roughly dressed. - A few drops of spinach greening may be added to give the ice a delicate tint of green. If this ice is moulded, the bottom of the mould may be decorated with a few grapes and angelica leaves, the pips of the grapes (An asparagus mould is also suitable for Glace Plombiere'a la Japonaise [Japanese Almond Ice). Prepare a custard with one pint and a half of milk, eight yolks of eggs, and one ounce of sugar, stir the custard over the fire to bind the yolks, pass through a hair sieve, add three ounces of apricot marmalade, six ounces of ground almonds, one glass of kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt. When cold, mix with half a pint of whipped cream and four ounces of powdered macaroons. Freeze in the usual manner, in moulding put a small quan- tity of apricot marmalade in the centre. Serve with small ratafia biscuits round the dish. Glace aux Praises [Strawberry-Water Ice). Ip lb. small ripe strawberries, i lb. loaf sugar, p pint cream, i pint of water, 2 lemons, 14 lb. ice, 4 lb. freezing salt. Pass the fruit through a fine hair sieve, and add the lemon-jnice, which should be strained. Boil up the sugar and water, skim, mix with the fruit pulp, add the cream, and let cool. Freeze the mixture in the ordinary way. Fill one or more suitable moulds, seal hermetically, and bury in a pail of broken ice mixed with salt for about two hours. Glace a la Creme de Praises [Strawberry Cream Ice). I pint vanilla cream (p 828), i lb. ripe strawberries, 4 oz. castor sugar, the juice of 1 a lemon, a few drops of liquid carmine. Pass the fruit through a tammy or hair sieve, add the sugar, strained lemon-juice, and sufficient carmine to give it a pink tint. Mix with the vanilla cream or custard, and freeze. Mould and pack away in the ice till required.«3i GL ACES—ICES. MELON MOULD. sugar, stir this on to 4 yolks of eggs, and i whole egg previously Glace ail Melon {Melon Water Ice). I ripe musk melon, i lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, i tablcspoouful orange- flower water, i tcaspoonful vanilla essence. Cut the melon in two, remove seeds, rind, and green portion of the fruit, and cut it into small slices. Boil the sugar in a pint of water to a syru}), remove the scum. Boil the nrelon for about live minutes in the syrup, and strain and ])ass it through a hue sieve. To the pulp add an equal quantity of syrup, the strained juice of two lemons, and the flavouring essence. Freeze in the usual maimer, and serve up in glasses or mould it into shape. If cream is desired, mix about one gill with the above in- gredients just before freezing it. Glace a la Creme de Bananes {Banana Cream Ice). 6 to 8 ripe bananas, 3 lemons, i pint custard (.same as for vanilla ice), -1- pint cream, i small .glasscura9oa or cognac brandy, ice, and freezin.g salt. Peel the bananas, pass them through a sieve into a basiu, add the juice of two lemons and the liqueur, and stir the custard into this. Whip the cream and add at the last. Put the mixture in a freezer and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in a pile or in cups, or mould it, if preferred. Glace au Caramel {Burnt S^igar or Caramel Ice). 4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 oz. castor sugar, i quart milk, i-|- pint cream, i tca- spoonfnl of vanilla essence or i tablespoonfnl of vanilla sugar, ice, and freezing salt. Put the loaf sugar in a copper sugar-boiler with a few drops of water, and cook until it turns dark brown. Boil the milk, stir into the burnt sugar, boil up again, strain, and add the castor sugar. When cool, stir in a pint of cream, and flavour with vanilla. Whip the remainder of cream, and mi.x with the above. Freeze in the usual way. Work the mi.xture well to get it perfectly smooth. Wdien set, pack into one or two moulds, wrap up the moulds in paper, and repack in crushed ice and salt for two hours. Glace Spaghetti en Surprise {Imitation Macaroni Ice). Roll out enough nouille or plain short crust paste to line a dish (buttered), deckle the edges, let dry, then bake in a moderately heated oven to a light brown colour. Remove the crust carefullv fronr the dish, and allow the shape to get cold. Make a custard with I pint of milk boiled up with a vanilla pod, and i oz. of loaf beaten up. Return to the stew-pan, stir over the fire long enough to bind the eggs, then remove the vanilla, and strain into a basin. When sufliciently cold, add half a pint of whipped cream. Freeze this in the usual manner. When ready for seiu'ing, place the jfrepared832 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. paste cnist on a dish lined with a folded napkin or dish paper. Pnt in the ice previously worked thoroughly with the spatula, and flavoured with noyeau or maraschino. Have ready some whipped' sweet cream, put into a forcing-bag provided with a plain tube, and force it out in rings on top of the ice till the dish is filled with macaroni-like shaped pipes. Besj)rinkle the top with finely grated cliocolate and pounded almond rock. Send to table immediately. Glace au Moka [Coffee Cream Ice). I quart strong clear coffee, 6 oz. castor sugar, i inch vanilla pod, \ pint milk, -1- pint cream, ice, ami freezing salt. Heat the milk, sugar, and vanilla in a stew-pan, but do not let it boil, add the coffee, let it cool, and stir in the cream. Take out the vanilla and pour into an ice-freezer, previously placed in a tub containing broken ice mixed with coarse freezing salt. Freeze until it resembles a creamy substance, fill up into little glasses, and serve. Coffee thus prepared should be in a semi-liquid state when served. A bowl of castor sugar should be handed round at the same time. If retpiired to be moulded freeze the mixture a little longer and fill into a pewter mould. Glace Rochet Volcano. A specially constructed socle, consisting of a metal tube fixed on a round plate, is required for this dish. Cover the bottom part with a sheet of Genoese pastry, and the tube portion with duchesse• S33 GLACES—ICES. or nouille paste, dry the shape in a cool oven and set to cool. Pre- pare a custard with i pint of milk, 6 yolks of eggs, i oz. of chocolate, and \ gill of strong Mocha coffee. When strained add if gill of syrup and i gill of whipped cream, and allow to cool. Freeze this in the usual manner. To dress the ice : Scoop out large table- spoonfuls and arrange them in pyramidal form round the column of the plaque, ])reviously placed on a suitable dish. Sprinkle the ice here and there with finely chopped pistachios, pour a small quan- tity of rum, kirsch or brandy into the top portion of the tube, in it also place some very finely-cut strips of angelica. Ignite the alcohol, and serve at once. Note.—If liked, the base of the dish can be garnished with mushrooms made from small round meringues and almond paste. Glace Dame Blanche {White Lady Ice). Line a freezing mould with white paper, and stand it in a charged freezer. Whisk separately one pint of cream and four whites of eggs, add four ounces of castor sugar, flavour with vanilla essence and some kirsch liqueur, amalgamate both eggs and cream, add a handful of finely-shredded blanched almonds, and pour into the prepared mould. Replace the mould in the charged freezer, and let it remain for five or six hours. To serve, unmould, remove the paper, and cut the ice into squares or oblongs. Dish up, and serve with ice wafers. Glace a la Florentine. Line a bomb-shaped monld with filbert-cream ice, and fill the centre with strawberry-water ice. Wrap up the mould, and freeze. Glace a la Georgette. Make a pineapple ice (p. 829). Mix it when partially frozen with pounded French almond rock. Mould in small fancy shaped pewter ice moulds, wrap them up in paper and bury in crushed ice and salt from one to two hours. Unmould, and serve as dessert ices. Glace a la Havanne. Line an ice mould with coffee-cream ice, mixed wifh pounded burnt sugar almonds (pralines), and fill up centre with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze in the usual way. Glace a la Madeleine. line a pewter ice mould with vanilla ice, fill the centre with minced pineapple, moistened with syrnp and kirsch flavouring. All up with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze. Glace a la Mexicaine. Line a bomb mould with vanilla-cream ice, and All the centre with grated chocolate or a rich chocolate custard, cover with vanilla ice. Wrap up mould, and freeze. Glace a la Sarah Bernhardt. Prepare a light souffle mixture as directed on p. 843, flavour it with rose water, freeze it a little, and with it line a bom'be-mould. 3G834 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Fill the centre with a light custard containing crushed crystallised violets, complete filling with souffle mixture, pack in a charged ice cave or freezing-pot for three hours, then unmould, and decorate with glace violets. Glace panachee en Surprise. Freeze fairly firm three varieties of ice, viz. vanilla cream, pistachio, and strawberry cream. Pack them into three plain moulds. About five minutes before serving unmould them on a deep silver dish, cover them quickly and completely with a stiff meringue mixture, decorate the surface a little, dredge with fine sugar, and put the dish quickly in a very sharp oven just long enough to set the egg meringue. Send to table immediately. Glace Tutti-Frutti [Italian Ice Pudding). 5 yolks of eggs, i pint milk, 6 oz. sugar, vanilla flavouring (pod or essence), 2 whites of eggs, 1- gill maraschino, ^ pint double cream, i oz. pistachios, I oz. glace cherries, i oz. candied fruit (mixed), i oz. glace apricots. Prepare a custard by boiling the milk and sugar, add the vanilla flavouring, pour over the yolks of eggs previously beaten, return to the stew-pan, stir over the fire till it thickens, and strain into a basin, and let cool. Whisk separately the whites of eggs and cream till stiff, and amalga- mate both. Cut the pistachios, previously peeled, into thin shreds, cut the other fruit into small dice. Put the custard in a freezer and commence to freeze, when partly done stir in the fruit, and lastly the whipped whites of eggs and cream. When nearly frozen, add the mara- schino. Mix well, and continue to freeze till set. Mould in the usual way, or serve piled up rough on a dish. Dredge the shape with powdered chocolate, and serve. Glaces Fantaises [Fancy and Dessert Ices). These ices are made in almost endless varieties. Fashion demands novelties in ices, therefore each season introduces a number INDIVIDUAL MOULDS FOR DESSERT ICES. of new compositions and shapes. The talented confectioner and cuisinier exercise considerable ingenuity in devising original prepara- tions, and in this direction they are helped by the new shapes and835 GLACES—lCES. designs of ice moulds which are being constantly introduced for the production of fancy ices. Many of the designs are the outcome of certain events, social and gastronomic celebrations, as well as the rule of fashion. The principles of ice-making, however, never change—they are the same to-day as they were fifty years ago, and almost every kind and variety of ices can be made up as dessert or fancy ices. Ananas glace a la Reine Alexandra {Iced Pineapple, Qnccn Alexandra Style). Procure a good-sized ripe hothouse pine, cut off the top portion, and carefully scoop out the whole of the interior. Pound this in a mortar and pass through a fine sieve. Boil up a pint of syrup, and add to it the strained juice of two lemons and the fruit pidp, and put it when quite cold into the freezing-pot surrounded with crushed ice and coarse salt. Freeze in the usual manner, but w'hen it begins to get firm, work in a meringue mi.xture made with the wdiite of an egg and half a gill of syrup whisked over the fire till the liaison is formed, and llavoured with a little kirschwasser. Continue the freezing operation until the right consis- tency is obtained. When ready for serving, fill the pineapple shell with the ice, replace the top. Dish up on a Genoese border decorated with halves of apricots or small peaches filled with vanilla ice. The dish may be improved by decorating the fruit with spun sugar. Biscuit glace aux Praises. l\lake a strawberry custard with a gill of milk, two egg-yolks, half an ounce of sugar, and a gill of pulped strawberries to colour and flavour ; when cold, freeze till nearly stiff. Prepare one pint of thick syrup with about twelve ounces of loaf sugar, water, and vanilla-pod for flavouring, while the syrup is warm pour it into a basin containing eight well-beaten yolks of eggs, stir cpiickly over the fire with a wire whisk until the mixture thickens, stir until it becomes cold. Next mix a pint and a half of whipped cream with one ounce of powdered sponge cake, put it on the ice, and freezeTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 836 when wanted. Line the bottom of an oblong ice-mould with the prepared strawberry ice, let it set firmly, fill up with the cream last prepared when this is nearly frozen, cover the mould well, bury in ice and salt, and freeze for two hours. Unmould carefully, cut the ice quickly into slices, dish up and serve. Biscuits glaces a la Turque. I oz. freshly roasted and coarsely ground coliee, -1 gill syrup, 2 sheets gelatine, i gill double cream, i oz. French almond rock, 12 wafer biscuits (oblong shape). Pour the boiling syrup over the coffee, cover, and let stand for a few minutes to infuse, add the gelatine and when dissolved strain into a small basin. Whip the cream till stiff and incorporate with the coffee and almond rock (crushed up). Pour on to a tin and let it set on the ice. Cut it into slices, the same size as the biscuits, 'and sandwich them together. Place in an ice-cave for two hours, and serve on a dish with fancy lace-paper or folded napkin. Bombe glacee a la Venitienne. Line a bombe-mould with st-rawberry-cream ice, and fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar. Cover the mould previously wrapped in paper, and set in crushed ice and salt, freeze for three hours, and serve in the usual manner. Garnish with very small macaroons. Bombe glacee au Chocolat. Line a bombe-mould with chocolate-cream ice and All the centre with vanilla-water ice. Cover the mould tightly and wrap up. Bury it in a pail of broken ice and salt, and freeze for three hours. Dish up and garnish with Swiss ice wafers or chocolate biscuits. Bombe glacee a la Sicilienne. Mix a pint of vanilla custard with a handful of finely-crushed macaroons, freeze in the usual way, and line a bombe-mould with it. Fill the centre with pineapple or strawberry-watei' ice. Cover the mould, and proceed as directed in the foregoing recipes, garnish the dish with small chocolate macaroons. Bombe Venitienne or Venetia. Bombe of pistachio-cream ice, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with orange-flower water, and thus frozen. Ponding souffle a la Marquise. Prepare a souffle as directed for Milanese souffle (p. 798), but omitting the jelly, partially freeze the mixture and fill in a souffle dish with a rich strawberry cream in the centre. Place the dish in a charged ice-cave for two hours, and serve. Ponding glace a la Reine-Claude {Iced Greengage Pudding). Pass the fruit of eighteen stewed greengages through a sieve, add BOMBE-MOULD.837 GLACES—ICES. a little syrup and a few drops of spinach greening, usual consistency for moulding, l^eel the kernels of twenty-four young green walnuts, and pound them in a mortar with eight ounces of castor sugar, add half a pint of cream, and pass the pnree through a sieve. Mix with a gill of rich custard, Ha\'our with noyeau liqueur, and freeze in the usual manner. Line a plain ice-pudding mould with the greengage ice, till the centre with the walnut ice, fix on the lid, wrap up in paper, and place the mould in crushed ice and salt. Keep it thus for three or four hours. Unmould, garnish the ice shape with small cornets or gau- frettes filled with whipped sweetened cream, and a preserved strawberry on top of each. Serve immediately. Coupes frappees a la Capucine. lb. Genoese cake, 4 oz. baked split almonds, pint of vanilla Uistard, id gill ci-eam, ]- gill coffee (strong), i glass maraschino, 2 table- spoonfuls of benedictine or cura9oa. Remove the brown crust, cut the white part of the cake into very small dice, put these in a small basin, ponr over the two kinds of liqueur and the tepid coffee, cover, and let it stand for about an hour. Whip up the cream and mix it with one-third of the and freeze to the ICE PUDDING MOULD. vanilla custard. Add this to the soaked cake, chop finely a few of the almonds and incorporate them with the abo^'e. Keep the preparation well covered on the ice for about two hours. To serve, nearly fill eight to ten goblets or other suitable stem glasses with the prepared iced custard, then completely fill each glass with custard and whipped (slightly sweetened) cream. Cover the top of each with halves of baked almonds, which must be neatly arranged.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 838 Dish up, insert a cigarette wafer in the centre of each, and send to table. Coupes de Peches a la Reine. 6 small preserved peaches, J gill syrup, it gill milk, 2 inches vanilla pod, il gill cream, kirsch, 1 white of egg, fresh strawberries or cherries and angelica for garnish. Rill) the peaches through a hue sieve. Boil up the milk with the vanilla, pour this on to the peach puree, add the syrup, and let cool. Remove the vanilla (this may be used again and again if kept clean and put in sugar). Freeze the mixture partially, and add the cream and the white of egg whisked stiffly, flavour with a little kirsch, and continue to freeze a little longer. Fill up a number of fancy stem-glasses or punch cups, decorate each with a fine strawberry or cherry and leaves of angelica. Place the glasses in a charged ice-cave till required for table. Coupes St. Jacques. This is lemon-water ice (p. 829) mixed with compote of fresh fruit, flavoured with very little kirsch. Served in stem glasses or goblets. Coupes a la Mikado {Mikado Cups). Mix I gill chestnut puree with a pint of milk, add to it 4 oz. castor sugar and half a vanilla pod, boil up, and pour on to 3 beaten egg-yolks, remove the vanilla and re-heat, then strain, and let cool. Add the strained juice of 2 oranges, half a lemon, and the stiffly whisked whites of 2 eggs and i gill whipped sweetened cream. Freeze the mixture and fill into glasses, place half a hollo wed-out chestnut on top of the ice of each glass, and pour in about a tea- spoonful of hot rum, kirsch or brandy, and ignite at the time of sending it to table. Coupes St. Martin. Prepare equal parts of lemon-water ice and raspberry ice, with the former half-fill the required number of glasses, then put in eachGLACES—ICES. «39 a macedoine of fruit, composed of dice-shaped pieces of jiineapple, almonds, and strawberries, tlavoured with a few drops of mara- schino, cover with ras])berry ice, force a tiny ring of lemon ice on top, place a ripe strawberry in the centre of each, then dish up and serve quickly. Hand round some thin wafer biscuits or petits fours of Genoise with the ice cups. Note.—Moisten the edge or rim of each glass with a cut orange, and rinse it in castor sugar before Idling the glasses. Coupes glacees a la Royale, This is a delightful novelty, suitable both as a second sweet and as dessert ice. Prepare two kinds of ice, lemon-water flavoured with kirschwasser, and an apricot-cream ice. When sufficiently frozen for moulding, pour into as many champagne glasses as needed a liqueur glass of champagne, then fill up with alternate layers of the two kinds of ice. Sprinkle some finely-crushed maca- roons between the layers of ice, place a small ratafia biscuit on top of each, and send to table at once. The glasses should be rather small. Praises glacees en Coupes {Iced Strawberries in Cups). 2 lb. ripe strawberries, i pint syrup, -J- pint cream. Pick the strawberries and rub half of them through a hair sieve, add the pulp to the syrup, then pour into the freezer and freeze in the usual manner, but not too firmly. Stir the remainder of the fruit into the frozen mixture and mix carefully with the cream, previously whipped. This ice is generally served up in little souffle cups or glasses, with a whole strawberry placed on top. Oranges SoufTlees a la Javanaise. Take six or eight small Jaffa or Navel oranges, cut off a portion of each, and scoop out the pulp. Rub this through a sieve, and mix with one pint of rich vanilla ice, adding also about half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, a little finely-chopped preserved ginger and syrup, also one tablespoonful of orange curacoa. Con- tinue to freeze to the usual consistency of ice-cream. M'hisk up to a stiff froth two whites of eggs, incorporate a good pinch of ground ginger, and half an ounce of icing sugar. Fill the oranges with the prepared ice, and cover them quickly with the prepared meringue mixture, giving each a dome-shaped appearance, place a small piece of preserved ginger and some neatly cut angelica leaves on top of each, and dredge with castor sugar. Put the oranges quickly on a pastry sheet, stand each orange in a pastry hoop, and bake in a sharp oven just long enough to brown the surface. Dish up promptly on a suitable socle or a dish with a neat border, and, if liked, a bed of shaved ice. Send to table at once. Oranges glacees a la Portugaise, Prepare eight oranges as directed in the foregoing recipe. Steep them in cold water when hollowed out. Drain them and wipeTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 840 carefully, so as not to injure the rind. Cut some glace fruit into fine shreds or dice, and steep in maraschino liqueur. Mix these with orange ice (p. 829), hll the oranges with it. Put on the covers, and place the oranges in a freezer (sorbetiere) ; surround the latter with ice and salt for two hours. Take them out and dish up on vine-leaves or on a folded napkin. Fruits glaces {Iced Fruits), Any suitable fruit may be iced by dipping, hrst, in the beaten white of an egg, then in coarse or granulated sugar. Do this until the sugar coating is sufficiently thick. Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, and sweet juicy pears are treated in the same way. Cherries, strawberries, and other small fruits are iced with the stems on, only the largest being chosen. Pineapples should be cut into thin slices, and these again divided into quarters. Oranges and lemons should be carefully pared and all the white pith removed. Lemons are cut into horizontal slices, and oranges are divided into quarters. Compote de Poires en Surprise. Line an oval-shaped jelly or pudding mould with halves of preserved red pears, hll the centre with a good vanilla cream ice and turn out quickly on to a dish. Pour some red fruit syrup round the dish, and serve, MOUSSES, SOUFFLES, AND PARFAITS. Mousses, souffles, and parfaits are light ice cream preparations made from custard, cream, fruit or syrups, whipped whites of eggs, and flavouring according to names given. They are served in souffle cases or souffle dishes, in which they are frozen. Other compositions for mousses and souffles will be found among the compound ices. Mousse de Framboise frappee [Iced Raspberry Mousse). I lb. ripe raspberries, pint double cream, il pint port-wine jelly, angelica and pistachio nuts for garnish, i small glass of kirsch. Pass three parts of the raspberries through a hue sieve, and mix the pnree with half a pint of port-wine jelly. When partly cold add half the cream, previously whisked, and about half an ounce of castor sugar. Three-parts freeze this mixture and fill with it a bomb-mould, leaving a cavity in the centre for half the remainder of raspberries, which should be cut up small, sweetened, and flavoured with kirsch. Cover the surface with more of the frozen mixture, place the lid on the mould and keep it buried in ice till wanted for table. Fill up with alternate layers of raspberries, angelica, and jelly, a number of little dariole-moulds. Whip the cream and sweeten it with vanilla sugar. Turn out the large mould on a round dish, decorate it with whipped cream, pistachios, etc., and set round it the little moulds.84' GLACES—ICES. Mousse aux Poires {Pear Mousse). 4 large or 6 small stewing pears, lO oz. castor sugar, lO drops vanilla essence, 1- pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Pare, core, and slice the pears, put them and the sugar in a copper pan or casserole with water to cover, and cook until tender. Pass through a fine hair sieve while hot, add the vanilla essence, and stir t)ii the ice until cold. This should produce about a pint ol pulp. Line a charlotte mould with white paper, whip the cream until stiff, mix with the pulp, fill into the mould, cover with a round piece of paper and a lid fitting the mould, so as to hermetically seal it. Bury the mould in crushed ice and freezing salt for at least two hours. Mousse au Curasao. 3 gills cream, -1- gill cura90a, 2 oz. castor sugar. Put the cream into a china bowl, set in a tub surrounded with crushed ice, beat it with a whisk, at first slowly, until it becomes a stiff froth, adding the castor sugar and liqueur last of all. Fill some little souffle cases, place them carefully in an ice-box charged with crushed ice and freezing salt, or transfer the bowl with con- tents to a charged ice-box. After one and a half or two hours it will be set and ready for serving. In this case dress the mousse by means of a sjfoon in a pyramidal form on a glass dish and serve quickly. Note.—Various lla3'Ours, maraschino, kirsch, or rum liqueurs, may be introduced in place of curagoa. Mousse frappee. Prince Puckler. 1 lb. castor sugar, -i- pint whipped cream, 3 eggs, i gill apricot puree (pre- pared from fresh apricots), 2 \ lemons, i oz. gelatine, i liqueur glass cura5oa, 2 macaroons. Grate the rinds of the lemons as thinly as possible, strain the juice into a bowl, add the yolks of eggs, lemon-rind, and sugar, and whisk over a stew-pan of boiling water until thick and creamy. Allow the mixture to cool a little. Melt the gelatine (previously soaked in water and drained) with the apricot puree, strain, let cool, then add to the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, beat up the cream, stir both carefully into the above, and add curagoa. Turn it into a silver souffle case lining, with an inch-deep paper band fastened round it. Sprinkle some finely- crushed or powdered macaroons on top, keep it on the ice until wanted, and serve with a boat of cold chocolate sauce. Mousse au Cafe {Iced Coffee Mousse). With I oz. of ground coffee prepare a small cup of very strong coffee. Cream 3 yolks of eggs with 2 oz. of castor sugar, and add \ pint double cream. Stir in the cold coffee gradually, and flavour it, if desired, with a little vanilla. The whites of two eggs, well whisked, may also be added. Fill up some mousse cups or small silver-plated casseroles, place a star-shaped slice of angelica on top of each. Put them in a charged ice cabinet for about two hours. If found more convenient, freeze the mixture in the usual way, and fill up glasses the same as for sorbet.842 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Mousse de Praises a I’Americaine, Strawberry pulp, mixed with gelatine, sugar, and cream, lilled in dome-shaped moulds, and frozen. Garnished with fresh ripe straw- berries and whipped cream. Mousse a la Madrid. Vanilla cream mixed with hnrnt sugar hlberts (noisettes pra- linees), centre filled with whipped cream, flavoured with maraschino or other white liqueur. Mousse a la Nansen. Vanilla-cream ice, flavoured with noyeau liqueur, suitably shaped and decorated with spun sugar. Mousse a la Sultane. Xhis consists of vanilla cream, mixed with powdered French almond rock, chocolate caramel in centre, and decorated with whipped cream. Parfait au Marasquin {Maraschino Parfait). 4 yolks of eggs, i lb. loaf sugar, i pint water, gill maraschino, J gill kirsch- wasser, about i- pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Boil up the sugar and water, skim and boil until it becomes a syrup registering 36 degrees by the saccharometer. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir in the hot syrup, add the two liqueurs, whisk over a stew-pan of boiling water for about six minutes, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Place the basin in a cool place, stirring the contents while cooling. Have ready a plain charlotte mould lined with white paper, add the cream, well whipped, to the mixture when cool, and fill the mould. Cover with a piece of paper, close up with a lid so as to hermetically seal the mould, bury it in a pail of crushed ice and freezing salt. Let it remain for at least two hours. Parfait au Cafe {Coffee Parfait). 4 oz. freshly-roasted coffee, pint vanilla syrup, 4 yolks of eggs, pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Boil up the syrup and pour over the freshly-roasted (not ground) coffee, so as to make an infusion. Allow it to stand a few minutes, then strain into a basin, whisk the yolks of eggs in a clean stew-pan, stir in the syrup, set it on the fire and whisk until the yolks begin to bind, strain into a basin, add a few drops of caramel if needed, and let cool on the ice. Freeze in a sorbetiere surrounded with crushed ice and salt, when half-frozen, add the cream, previously whipped to a froth. Put the mixture into a cylindrical-shaped mould, well covered, place in a pail of ice and salt for two hours, turn out and serve. If more convenient, the parfait maybe served in goblets. Parfait a la Neluski. Pistachio cream ice, flavoured with chocolate, centre filled with caramel cream, and decorated with small chocolate macaroons. Parfait a la printaniere. Bomb of vanilla and chocolate cream ice, interior filled with whipped cream, mixed with fresh strawberries, etc.GL.ICES-ICES. 843 Souffle frappe aux Framboises {Iced Raspberry Souffle). \ sjill raspberry pulp, 6 oz. castor sugar, ttie juice and liiid ot 2 lemons, ] oz. leaf gelatine, 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, 4 pint whipped cream, J gill wine jelly, i tables))Oonful red-currant jelly. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former in a copper egg-bowl, add to it the sugar and the strained juice of lemon, also the grated rind of one lemon. Stir this with a whisk over a saucepan of boiling water until it becomes a thick, creamy substance. Melt the gelatine, and add it to the raspberry pulp, previously heated (not boiled), and strain this into the above. When sufficiently cooled, add carefully the whisked whites of two eggs and the whipped cream. Pour the mi.vture into a silver-plated souffle dish, pro- vided with lining, and a paper band (fastened round). 1 lace in an ice cave for about two hours. iVbout half an hour before serving dissolve the red- currant jelly, add to it the wine jelly, and when almost cold pour this over the top of the souflle, and allow it to set. To serve, remove the paper band from the dish lining, place the souffle carefully on to the dish, and serve immediately. Souffle frappe a la Reine Isabelle [Iced Souffle). I oz. cornflour, i inch vanilla pod, i gill cream, 2 oz. butter, i oz. gelatine, red-currant jelly, a few drops carmine or cochineal, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2-4 gills milk, 8 oz. strawberries, 4 eggs, i small glass maraschino. ICE C.WE OR FREEZING CABINET. Mix the cornflour with the sugar in a stew-pan, stir in the milk, add an ounce of butter and the vanilla pod. Stir this over a slow fire until it comes to a boil, and continue until the mixture detaches easily from the stew-pan. Let it cool, and remove the vanilla pod. Pass the straw- berries through a hair sieve. Stir the pulp into the above before it is quite cold, and add the remainder of the butter. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the cream, and whisk over the fire until the eggs begin to bind. Dis- solve the gelatine in a little water, add to it a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal, and844 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. the maraschino. Strain this into the mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add also. Fill a silver-plated or china souffle dish with this preparation. Keep it in a case well charged with ice. Dissolve about two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and when nearly cold pour it over the top of the souffle to form a layer, sprinkle the centre with desiccated cocoanut, and place a quarter of glace orange or tangerine on top. It is well to fasten a paper band round the souffle case so that it conies about an inch above the rim. This should be removed before sending it to table. Souffle glace a la Joinville. Beat up four whole eggs and three yolk^f eggs in an egg-bowl, add one pint of syrup and stir over the fire till hot and frothy, then whisk over the ice till quite cold. Whip up a pint of double cream and amalgamate with the contents in the egg-bowl. Add a few drops of lemon essence, half a glass of maraschino liqueur, and a handful of mixed glace fruit. Fill up some paper or silver-plated souffle cases, sprinkle the top with finely-grated chocolate and chopped pistachio kernels, and place in a charged ice-cabinet. Freeze thus for two hours. Send to table immediately it leaves the ice-cabinet. Petits Souffles a la Tosca. Prepare a coffee ice (Glace an Moka) as directed on page 832, flavour it with cream (whipped) and kirsch, and fill into small paper cases, freeze them in a charged ice-cave for two hours, and serve. Petits Souffles a la Fedora. Prepare a souffle as directed for Joinville Souffle, flavour it with vanilla in place of lemon, also with curagoa liqueur, and fill into small souffle cases with a mixture of glace cherries in centre. Freeze them in a charged ice-cabinet. When serving, place a glace cherry and some angelica leaves on top of each as garnish. Charlotte glacee a la Princesse. Prepare one and a half pint of rich ice-cream custard (p. 828), flavour it with a small glass of liqueur brandy, add half a gill of whipped cream, and freeze to the usual consistency for moulding. Line one or two plain charlotte moulds with white paper, previously rubbed over with good olive oil. Trim some finger or Savoy biscuits, and arrange them neatly round the inside of the moulds. Mix an ounce of finely- cut glace cherries with the ice mixture, and fill the moulds. Place the mould or moulds in a charged ice cave for two hours. When required for table unmould, carefully remove the paper, and ornament the top of the charlotte with CHARLOTTE ICE MOULD, whipped Cream coloured a pale pink, using a forcmg-bag with a rose tube for this purpose. This must be done very quickly, as it needs to be served immediately.845 GLACES—ICES. Charlotte glacee Florentine {Iced Charlotte, Florentine Style). Line a charlotte mould bottom and sides neatly with finger biscuits, hll with orange-water ice (p. 829) mixed with a sufficient quantity of whipped cream to make it very light, and freeze for two hours in a charged souffie case. Serve it on folded napkin. Charlotte glacee a la Creole. Line a plain charlotte mould with iced biscuits, finger biscuits, or Genoese slices, covered with different-coloured royal icing. See that the icing has got quite hard on the biscuits before they are used for lining the mould. Arrange the biscuits just the same as for “ Charlotte Russe.” Mix a pint of vanilla custard ice with a gill of sweetened chestmit puree and a handful of fruit (pineapple, peaches, etc.) cut into dice, previously soaked in a little mara- schino liqueur. Freeze this mixture, and fill up the prepared mould ; this must be done with special care. Keep it in a charged ice cave or souffle ice case. When wanted for table, unmould the charlotte carefully on a dish covered with lace-paper or a folded napkin, garnish to taste, and serve immediately. Charlotte glacee de Poires a l lmperiale. 10-12 small pears cooked in syrup, pint vanilla syrup, made with 6 oz. sugar, 5 yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, i lemon, i gill maraschino jelly, I glass cognac brandy, 18-20 ice wafers, -I- gill whipped cream, angelica. Peel the pears neatly, and cook them in the usual manner in a syrup flavoured with lemon-rind and juice. When done, select the best six-eight for garnishing purposes, glaze them with the syrup well reduced, and keep on the ice. Pound the remainder in a mortar, add the brandy, and pass through a fine sieve. Mffirk up the egg-yolks, pour on the hot syrup cooked to the small thread degree, stir over hot water till the eggs bind, then add the jelly, t he pear puree, and finally the 1} gill of c r e a m whipped. Freeze the mixture . Line the in- terior of a plain charlotte mould with closely fitting ice wafers, fill each wafer with ice by means of a cornet, then quickly fill the centre part of the mould with the prepared ice. Place the mould in a charged ice cabinet for an hour or two. To serve, un- mould the charlotte on a dish with folded napkin, halve and846 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. arrange the iced pears, each having an angelica stalk inserted round the base of the charlotte. Force a little heap of whipped cream on top of each wafer, and decorate the surface a little with whipped cream. Send to table at once. CEufs glaces a la Florida. I pint cream, 4 oz. marzipan or almond paste, 4 whites of eggs, i pint of milk, vaiiilla, 8 oz. castor sugar, 4 egg-yolks, 2 oz. almond paste, 6 oz. Genoise cake, i gill custard, i glass maraschino. Rub 4 oz. almond paste with a pestle in the mortar, and add gradually two whites of eggs. Boil the milk with the sugar, and a vanilla pod to flavour, strain and let cool, then add the cream. Gradually stir some of the above on to the almond paste, and then amalgamate both with the cream, etc. When cold, freeze the mixture, work in the remaining whites of eggs whisked to a stiff froth last of all. Break up and soak the cake, free from rind, in half the custard, flavour with maraschino, and then make into a paste-like consistency with the 2 oz. almond paste. Make up into rounds the size of egg-yolks. Now take the recjuired number of egg ice moulds (8-10), fill each half with the white ice, hollow out the centre portion of each, and place the egg-yolk shape in the centre of each, then close up the moulds, and wrap them in paper, and bury in broken ice and salt for one and a half hours. Serve them on vine leaves, placing each egg in a swan-shaped souffle case. Range these round a column of ice made from coloured847 GLACES—ICES. M^ater placed in the centre of a silver salver, and insert a few sprays of fern and a rose on top of the ice colninn, and ser\'e quickly. Bombe rustique a la Moderne. Make a nougat as follows : Boil a pound of loaf sugar with a little water to a pale coffee colour, put iu d lb. almond shreds, pre- viously baked, pour on to an oiled slab, and shape from it a small plate and a nest. The plate is used as the base of the root of a tree, which is pre- pared from Genoese pastry, and masked over with a chocolate icing. Insert fanci- fully - cut leaves of angelica, and put a bird made of gum paste or marzipan on the branches of the tree. Fill the nougat nest or basket with glace cherries or glace strawberries. Have ready a bombe-shaped mould filled with vanilla cream ice. Dish up as shown in the illustration, un- mould the ice and place in the centre of the dish, decorate the base of the bombe with glace cherries and angelica, and serve at once. Nids d’Oiseau glaces [Birds’-Ncsts with Ice). Prepare some nougat, roll it out on a marble slab, and shape into a birds’-nest, using a nest- t mould for this purpose. , The inside of the mould is oiled and the nougat is pressed in so as to take the shape, which is then turned out on a round dish. Have ready some vanilla or caramel ice cream, and hll a BIRDS’ NEST AND EGG MOULD. nuiuber of siuall egg-moulds with this. Mdien moulded and set sufficiently, turn them out and place the eggs in the centre of the nougat nest. Cover the whole with some freshly-made spun sugar and serve at once. This is an e.xceedingly pretty sweet, but it requires a certain amount of skill and patience to prepare it to perfection. Fruits a la Princiere {Iced Fruit). Prepare a pint and a half of preserved fruit, peaches, pineapple, and apricots, cut them into small dice, and cover them with syrup.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 848 Cook till tender half a pint of green gooseberries in syrup and put them with the other fruit. Pour off some of the syrup into a stew- pan. Add half a wineglassful of brandy and a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, boil up, and add to the fruit. Aad the strained juice of three lemons and let cool. Then freeze in the usual manner, and serve in a glass dish or in cups, and hand round with ice biscuits, wafers or sponge hngers. Imitation Glass Dishes ( Used for serving all kinds of Ices). Special kinds of moulds are required for this, which are generally made'inCtwo, parts. Fill the sides with ,plain or coloured w'ater allowing sufficient room for the ice (crushed ice) and salt to surround it or them. Allow about three hours for freezing. Great care must be taken to prevent any salt water penetrating into the moulds, or the ice which is to be served in them will be spoilt. When ready, unmould them carefully. Sorbets, Granites, Roman Punch, and similar preparations, are ices in a semi-liquid state, they are never moulded, but are served in cups, goblets, stem, or punch glasses, immediately before the roast, their object being to refresh the palate and to prepare the guest for the more perfect enjoyment of the succeeding dishes, viz. the roast and the entremets. Although served separately, the punch or sorbet should not be given an extra heading on the menu, but be simply placed on a line distinct from the other courses. Italian Meringue {Used for Sorbets, Punch, etc.). Dissolve half-a-pound of loaf sugar in about a gill of water, and boil in a copper sugar boiler till it reaches 240 degrees Fahr. on Senn’s saccharometer. Stir in by degrees the whites of three eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Whisk this for about three minutes over the hre, and use as required. Sorbet d’Ananas {Pineapple Sorbet). I ripe fresh or preserved pineapple, P lb. castor sugar, 2 lemons, 2 eggs (whites), I liqueur-glassful of kirsch, i liqueur-glassful rum. Peel the pineapple thinly (if fresh fruit is used), take out the eyes, and cut into slices. Core out the centre of each slice, and FROZEN ICE SH.^PED DISHES. (red, yellow, or green tinted). When the shapes are to be opaque, add a little milk to the water. Place the moulds in a charged souffle ice cave, or failing this, pack them carefully into a tin large enough to hold the mould or moulds, and PUNCHES AND SORBETS.GLACES—ICES. 840 chop the slices very finely. Put it into a basin, add the castor sugar and t pint of water, and let it remain for an hour or longer. Put if- pint of water in a copper stew-pan, when boiling, add the contents of the basin, boil up, take off the scum which rises to the top, let cool, strain in the juice of two lemons, and freeze in the usual manner. When about half-frozen stir in the beaten whites of eggs, rum, and liqueur. Freeze a liffle longer. \Mien it has a creamy appearance it is ready for serving. Fill up in sorbet cups or in glasses with handles, and serve. Sorbet au Citron [Lemon Sorbet). This is made in the same way as orange sorbet, using two oranges and eight lemons instead of the above quantity of oranges and lemons. In other respects the ingredients and method are the same as in the previous recipe. Sorbet a la Creme [Cream Sorbet). The juice of 2 lemons, i lb. castor sugar, the whites of 3 eggs, \ pint cream, I oz. vanilla sugar, t maraschino. Boil up ifr pint of water, add the sugar and lemon-juice, reduce a little, and skim. Strain this and let cool, then freeze partially ; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the vanilla sugar, whip the cream, and incorporate both whites of eggs and cream into the ice, flavour with the liqueur, and finish freezing to the desired consistency. Serve in the usual manner. Sorbet aux Fraises [Strawberry Sorbet). To a quart of strawberry-water ice (half frozen) add half a gill of sauterne wine and a small glass of cura(joa, colour it with a few drops of carmine, mix thoroughly, and serve when sufficiently frozen. Sorbet de Groseilles au Marasquin [Gooseberry Sorbet). Stir one pint of picked green gooseberries in pint of water, to which add lb. of loaf sugar and the juice of two lemons. Rub through a hair sieve, colour with a little spinach greening, to give it a pretty light green colour. When cold, add ^ gill of mara- schino. Freeze partially, and serve in small glasses. Garnish with a few stoned cherries, previously tossed in a little syrup flavoured with maraschino. Sorbet d’Orange [Orange Sorbet). 8 oranges, 2 lemons, 2 glasses marsala wine, 10 oz. loaf sugar, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar. Put the loaf sugar in a stew-pan with three pints of water, heat up slowly until the sugar is dissolved, then boil and reduce a little, and remove the scum. Add to it the finely-grated rind of two oranges, the juice of the eight oranges and two lemons, boil up, strain, and let cool. Partially freeze this mixture, whisk up the eggs to a stiff froth, add it to the castor sugar, and stir this with the wine into the ice mixture, freeze to the desired consistency, and serve in glasses or cups. .3 H850 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sorbet au Mocha. f lb. loaf sugar, 6 lemons, 3 whites of eggs, i gill strong coffee, i glass kirschwasser, ^ gill cream. Rub the loaf sugar on the lemons so as to extract some of the zest, then put the sugar into a copper pan with one pint of water, and boil to a syrup. Remove the scum, and add the strained juice of the lemons and the coffee. Freeze this in the usual manner, stir in the stiffly whisked whites of eggs, the kirschwasser, and the cream. Serve the mixture when three-parts frozen in small glasses. Remember that a sorbet must be semi - liquid, and not frozen hard. Sorbet de Raisin {Grape Sorbet). Rub twenty to twenty-four white ripe grapes through a hair sieve, mix this with a pint of partially-frozen lemon-water ice, and add a wineglassful of elder-flower water, also a wineglassful of marsala or sherry wine. Mix well, and continue to freeze. Fill up the glasses or cups, and garnish each with a few grapes carefully peeled and seeded, and previously dipped or tossed in a little maraschino syrup. Punch a la Romaine {Roman Punch). 6 oz. loaf sugar, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 small lemons, i white of egg, i glass of Jamaica rum. Rub the loaf sugar on two lemons, so as to extract the oil from the yellow part of the rind, put the sugar in a copper pan, moisten with one gill of water, cut the lemons in halves, and strain the juice into the pan. When the sugar is dissolved add another pint of water, boil up, skim, and cook to a light syrup. When cool, strain the syrup into a freezer surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt, proceed to freeze a little. Beat up the white of egg to aGLACES—ICES. 8S stiff froth, put the castor sugar on the fire with a tablespoonful of water, when dissolved pour into it the stiff white and mix well. A TRAY OF ROMAN PUNCH. add the rum and mingle with the half-frozen ice mixture. Work well with a spatula, and serve in little cups, custard or punch glasses. This quantity will fill seven or eight glasses. Punch a la Cardinal. As preceding recipe, but flavoured with raspberry pulp, also a little ground cinnamon, and a glass of port wine. Punch au Kirsch. The same as “ Punch Romaine ” (p. 850), but flavoured with kirschwasser only, served in goblets or custard glasses. Punch au Lait {Milk Pttnch). This is semi-frozen sweetened milk, flavoured with vanilla ; served in small china cups. Punch a la Nansen, Semi-frozen vanilla syrup, mixed with Italian meringue mixture (p. 848), and flavoured with maraschino ; serve in stem glasses. Punch a la Ni?oise. Like “ Punch Romaine ” (p. 850), flavoured with rum and champagne, and served in frozen imitation goblet or cup shapes. Punch a la Royale. The same as “Punch Romaine” (p. 850), but flavoured with cura9oa or maraschino and champagne. GRANITES. These are similar to sorbets—that is, partially frozen frnit- water ices, flavoured with liqueur and mixed with crushed ice, and at times with dice-cut pieces of fruit. Note.—A large number of delicious sorbets and granites (or852 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. “ granites,” as they are sometimes called) may be prepared without being either elaborate or expensive by using various kinds of fruit in season. Granite d’Ananas {Pineapple Granite). I ripe pineapple (peeled), fresh or preserved, 6 oz. castor sugar, 2 lemons, I gill cura9oa liqueur, i tablespoonful brandy. Cut about two slices of the pineapple, mince rather coarsely, and keep this on the ice. Pound the remainder of the fruit in a mortar, add to it about half a pint of water, and rub the whole througli a sieve or tammy cloth. Boil up with the sugar, skim, and let cool in a china basin or pan. Proceed to freeze in the usual way. When partially frozen, add the minced pineapple, previously steeped in a little brandy, and sprinkled over with castor sugar. Now add the liqueur, and about a gill of finely-crushed ice. Mix well, and serve. Granite au Champagne. Freeze three pints of lemon water (see p. 829), then add half a bottle or less of champagne. Mix thoroughly, and incorporate carefully about half a pound of soft fruit, such as strawberries, apricots, or peaches, all cut into dice. Lastly, stir in a small quan- tity of crushed ice. It is then ready for serving. Granite de Citron [Lemon Granite). To one quart of partially frozen lemon-water ice add one small glass of maraschino liqueur and half a pint of finely crushed ice. Mix thoroughly, and serve in the usual manner. Granite de Framboise [Raspberry Granite). Mix f lb. of castor sugar with i pint of raspberry pulp, add the juice of 5 lemons, i quart of boiling water, and boil together to the consistency of a syrup, strain into a freezer, and freeze to the consistency of snow, incorporate 2 whites of eggs, whisk stiffly, and pack in rough ice. Serve in glasses or cups. Granite a ia Voltaire. Boil and clarify 6 oz. ol loaf sugar with i gill of water. Extract and strain the juice of 5 lemons and 2 large oranges, pour this on to the syrup and let cool, then freeze partially as is customary for water ices. Whisk 2 whites of eggs to- a stiff froth, and stir in ^ gill of syrup and i small glass of kirsch. Add this gradually to the water ice, and stir up well. Continue to freeze for a little longer, and work to a smooth, semi-frozen cream-like consistency. Peel two ripe peaches, cut them into thin slices. Rinse 6-8 goblets or granite glasses with maraschino, put a few of the slices of peaches in each glass, reserving one for the top, then fill each glass with the semi-frozen mixture. Put a slice of peach and a ripe strawberry on top, dish up, and serve. Cafe glace a la Neige [Iced Coffee). i-} lb. icing sugar, 12 yolks of eggs, i quart cream, i quart coffee. Whisk the yolks of eggs and stir in the sugar, pour in the coffee hot, and let cool. Whip the cream and add it to the coffee when quite cold. Freeze in the usual way, and serve in glasses.853 GLACES—ICES. Cafe frappe a la Viennoise {Iced Coffee, Vienna Style). I quart freshly-made Mocha coffee, 3 pint milk, h pint syrup, i pint cream, 1 glass of old cognac or kirsch, ice, and freezing salt. Mix the coffee, syrup, and milk (previously boiled) together, pour into the freezer, and freeze until of the consistency of batter, whip the cream, mix three parts thereof with the iced coffee, stir in the kirsch or cognac, and freeze a little longer. Fill some very small cups with this, put a teaspoonful of whipped cream on top of each, and serve quickly. Finger biscuits or small vanilla wafers should be handed round at the same time. The glace {Iced Tea). 2 heaped-up lablespoonfuls good Ceylon tea, i quart boiling water, pint cream, 4 oz. castor sugar, i lemon. Put the tea in a teapot, previously heated, pour over the water (boiling), allow it to infuse, then pour off into an ice-freezer, pre- viously placed in a tub charged with broken ice and coarse salt, mix tire tea with the sugar and cream. Freeze until of a creamy appearance, then put into a jug, and serve in cups or glasses. Cut the lemon into thin slices, put them on a glass dish, and hand round with the iced tea. Tea thus prepared should be in a liquid state when served ; vanilla flavouring is sometimes added, but is not recommended. Omelette Glacee a la Waldorf, Prepare a rich cream or fruit ice, fix a thin border of Genoise cake on a dish, have ready a meringue mixture, composed of three stiffly whisked whites of egg and three oz. of castor sugar. Dress the ice in the form of a dome on the dish, and cover quickly with the meringue mixture, smooth it over wflth a pallet knife, and decorate the top and sides by means of a forcing bag with meringue as shown in the illustration. Dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a sharp oven for about flve minutes, then serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 854 CHAPTER XXXVI. AFTER-DINNER SAVOURIES. ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX—BONNES BOUCHES. Savoury dishes belong to the so-called Entremets course, which includes Dressed Vegetables, Sweet Dishes, as well as After-dinner Savouries or “ Bonnes bouches,” under which names savouries are often inserted in menus. A well-chosen savoury or “ bonne bouche ” adds much to the success of a dinner, which epicures and others who know how to dine would not consider complete without. Some kind of savoury dish makes the most suitable hnish to a dinner, for it adds considerably to the enjoyment, being the final stimulus or piquancy of a meal. Most savouries are served hot, but many dishes are served cold, especially in the summer ; their number affords a boundless choice of variety, and provides an immense amount of scope in design and arrangement in their preparation, so that there should be no diffi- culty to have an ample choice for selection, no matter what season of tile year. Savoury dishes have always been popular, but their popularity has considerably increased during recent years, and a large number of new dishes have in consequence been introduced. The most popular and favourite savouries are those made from oysters, caviare, lobster, smoked fish, and cheese. Savoury vege- tables are sometimes included, but this depends as to the number of vegetables which are served with preceding courses. Strictly speaking, the gastronomic rule does not admit eggs, omelettes, and other egg preparations to be served as after-dinner savouries, though many persons prefer an " omelette aux fines herbes ” or some kind of dressed eggs as a savoury. Omelettes and other egg dishes have therefore been classified in a separate chapter. This, as well as the chapter devoted to ‘‘ Breakfast and Supper Dishes,” contain many recipes suitable for the savoury course. As a general rule, all savouries should be made and served in very small portions ; they ought to be ‘‘ bonnes bouches,” just a mouthful. A substantial dish served as savoury is never a success, and should therefore be avoided. The most successful savouries are small, dainty, well-seasoned, and pretty in appearance. Huitres gratinees en Coquilles [Baked Oysters in Shells). 18 oysters, i oz. butter, 4 lemon, 3 table.spoonfuls bechamel, white bread- crumbs, cayenne or krona pepper, parsley for garnish. Open the oysters and remove the beards ; preserve a little of the liquor and eighteen round shells. Wash the shells and wipe dry, butter the inside. Put a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce inAFTER-DINNER SA VU DRIES. «S5 each of the shells, also a few drops of oyster liquor and lemon-juice ; lay the bearded oysters on this, season with a dust of krona or cayenne, put a little more sauce on top of each ; sprinkle with bread- crumbs, and lay a tiny piece of butter on top of each. Place them on a baking-sheet in a quick oven for ten minutes or less, just long enough to slightly colour the top ; arrange on a hot dish on a folded napkin ; garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Huitres a la Tsarine {Oysteys, Kitssian Style). 12 oysters, 12 rounds of sliced cooked o.x-tongue, i oz. anchovy paste, 3 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 1 lemon. 3 oz. llonr, i-t oz. butter, i yolk of egg, salt, and cayenne. Sift the flour, mix it with two ounces of grated cheese, and rub in the butter ; add a pinch of salt and a dust of ca^^enne, and work into a stiff paste with egg-yolk. Roll out, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake a golden colour. Put the oysters, after having removed the beards, with some of the liquor in a saute-pan ; sprinkle with lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne ; toss over the lire till hot, but do not let them boil. Mix the anchovy paste with the remaining cheese, spread on one side of the baked biscuits. Heat up the rounds of tongue in a little butter and place one on top of the paste, or place the tongue on the biscuit and spread a layer of the paste on the tongue. Put an oyster in the centre of each ; bake a few minutes ; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Huitres en Caisses a la Diable [Devilled Oysters in Cases). Prepare a ragoiit of oysters, using the oysters whole (bearded), and add a well-flavoured white wine or veloutee sauce, incorporate cayenne, lobster butter, and parmesan cheese to taste, fill a number of small souffle cases, cover each with panurette or fresh bread- crumbs, cheese, and oiled butter, and bake for a few minutes in a very hot oven. Coquilles d’Huitres a la Suedoise [Cold). Open eight to ten large oysters, ancl beard them. Clean the deep shell of each oyster and place them on the ice to get quite colcl. Meanwhile mix two ounces of best Russian caviare with a small finely-chopped shallot and a few drops of lemon-juice. Put a teaspoonful of this into each oyster-shell and place an oyster upon it. Garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley, dish up, and keep on the ice till wanted for table. Hand a plate of thinly-cut brown bread and butter along with this dish when serving it. Croquettes d’Huitres au Jambon [Oyster and Ham Croquettes). 12 oysters, J lb. lean ham, | lb. chicken farce (p. 178), a few pistachio kernels, I egg, I lemon, breadcrumbs a round croiite of fried bread, tomato mayon- naise, clarified butter for frying and parsley for garnish. Beard the oysters, cut the ham into thin slices, mix the chicken forcemeat with a little cream and add a few chopped pistachios, then spread this over the oysters. Roll each oyster in a slice of8s6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ham, egg and crumb carefully, and fry in hot butter or lard to a golden colour. Drain them, and fix with silver skewers round the CROQUETTES D'hUITRES AU JAMBON. bread croute. Place a cut lemon in the centre of the dish, as shown in the illustration. Garnish with parsley and serve hot, with a boat of sharp tomato mayonnaise. Croquettes aux Huitres {Oyster Croquettes). Make a salpicon of minced oysters, bechamel sauce, mushrooms, and cooked white fish, well seasoned and mixed with egg-yolks. Shape into very small croquettes, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Drain them, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve, Petites Tartelettes a la Cracovienne {Oyster Tartlets). lb. puff-paste, i dozen oysters, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 oz. cooked whiting or other white fish, 4 gill cream, oyster liquor, hard-boiled egg, seasoning, i dessertspoonful meat glaze. Roll out the puff-paste about a quarter of an inch thick, cut out some rounds and line with it six or eight flat tartlet moulds. Fill these with raw rice, bake a nice colour, and take out the rice and put the crusts on a sieve. Chop the white of the hard-boiled egg and the flesh of the whiting finely. Warm up the oysters in their liquor, beard them, put si.x or eight of the nicest on one side and cut the remaining ones into small slices. Melt the butter in a stew-pan ; stir in the flour and cook without browning ; then add the oyster liquor and cream, stir well, put in the minced fish, white of egg, and oysters, and season with pepper and salt. Fill the tartlets with this mixture. Glaze the oysters, and put one on top of each tartlet. Rub the yolk of egg through a sieve and decorate round the oysters. Bake for ten minutes, dish up, and serve.AFTER-DINNER SAVOURIES. 857 Bonnes Bouches aux Huitres {Oystcy TH-hiis\. Wrap each oyster in a thin slice of streaky bacon, fasten on skewers, and broil them. Place each on a small round of fried bread (crouton). Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Huitres au Gratin {Baked Oysters, Gratin Style). Blanch 18 to 24 oysters of medium size, drain them (preserving; the liquor), and remove the beards. Have ready half a pint of bechamel sauce, reduce it well, and work in a tablespoonful of double cream, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of krona pepper, and a tablespoonful of grated parmesan cheese. Put the oysters into this and re-heat, without bringing it actually to the boil. Season with salt, and incorporate a little of the oyster liquor. Pour the prepared mixture on a buttered gratin dish or into several buttered shells (oyster-shells may, of course, be used, if liked). Sprinkle some fine breadcrumbs over the top, also some grated parmesan cheese, and a little oiled butter. Bake in a very hot oven just long enough to brown the surface, and serve at once. Friture d’Huitres {Fried Oysters). Poach the required number of oysters, previousl}^ bearded and drained, then dip them in frying batter, and fry in hot lard or lard-butter, drain, dish up, and serve with fried parsley. Huitres farcies {Stuffed Oysters). Mix finely four yolks of hard-boiled eggs with half the quantity of minced bacon ; add a little pepper or chopped parsley and a yolk of raw egg. Split open one dozen oysters, stuff with this mixture, put them in large oyster-shells, coat them over with bread- crumbs, put a little warmed butter on top, and bake in a hot oven for eight minutes. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Huitres sur Canapes {Oysters on Toast). Toast some slices of white or brown bread, cut some thin sliceb of cooked ham, stamp out some rounds of toasted bread and ham, about il to 2 inches in diameter ; cover each round of toast with ham, and place upon them the same number of oysters as there are rounds of toast ; the oysters should be drained from the liquor and bearded ; put a tiny piece of fresh butter on top of each oyster, season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne, then bake in a hot oven for about three minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Huitres a la Wellington. Open the required number of oysters, remove the beards, and put a teaspoonful of seasoned caviare on the lower shell, place the oysters npon these, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and dish up. Ornament the dish with slices of lemon. Oyster Rarebit. Chop finely the soft part of six oysters, mix this together with half the liquor of the oysters with an ordinary Welsh rabbit prepara- tion. Cook in the same way as directed for the latter dish, and serve on buttered toast.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 8s8 Batons de Caviar {Caviare Slices). This dish consists of baked puff-paste fingers split open, filled with seasoned caviare, and decorated with savoury butter and anchovy cream, or cut toasted and buttered bread into neat slices and spread with a layer of caviare, then decorate with creamed savoury butter, as shown in the illustration. Bouchees au Caviar {Caviare patties). Prepare six or eight very small puff-paste patty-cases {bouchees). Remove the lid, scoop out carefully the centre portion, and keep hot. Peel and chop a shallot very finely and put it in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, stir over the fire long enough to slightly warm the shallot, put in the contents of a small pot of “ hygienic ” caviare, stir gently with a wooden spoon, add two tablespoon fuls of tomato sauce (well reduced), and a few drops of lemon-juice ; let it get thoroughly hot. Fill up the pastry cases with this, place them on a dish, put on the little lids, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Caviar a I’Andalouse. Select eight small, even-sized onions, peel them, and cook lor ten minutes in salted water, drain them, and when cool cut. or scoop out the centre portion of each. Fill the openings with a mixture of “hygienic” or astrachan caviare mixed with a yolk of egg, a tablespoonful of soft breadcriimbs, a small piece of butter, and a pinch of black pepper. Put the stuffed onions on a buttered baking tin or pan, and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes in the oven. Have handy eight rounds of fried croutons, spread with anchovy butter, and put a baked onion on each. Range them neatly on a dish, and garnish with fancifully-cut slices of lemon and parsley. Caviar sur Croutes {Caviare on Toast). Bread for toast, 3 oz. of Russian or “hygienic” caviare, \ a lemon. of a teaspoonful of shallots, a pinch of cayenne, parsley for garnishing. Toast some slices of bread and cut out eight rounds about two inches in diameter and spread over with butter. Mix the caviare carefully with a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, a squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of cayenne, then spread them with the prepared caviare. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve.AFTER-DINNER SA ]'OURIFS. 859 Petits Bateaux a I’Epicurienne {Small Caviare Boats). line six to eight small boat-shaped moulds with thinly rolled-ont noihlle paste, which has been made with a quarter-pound of Hour, half an egg, a tablespoonfnl of grated cheese, and a pinch of cayenne. Prick the paste with a fork to prevent blistering whilst baking and lill with rice. Bake to a golden colour, remove the rice, and let the cases of pastry cool. Prepare a mixture composed of four ounces of astrachan caviare, lemon-juice, a hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve, and a good pinch of paprika pepper. Mix with a wooden skewer. Fill the little boat crusts with the caviare mixture. Ornament the edg^s with savoury butter or cream, insert in centre of each a sail and mast made with a thin strip of baked nouille paste hxed on to a triangular-shaped piece of rice paper. Heat up in a sharp oven for about three minutes, then dish up and serve. This dish is equally nice served cold. Caviar a la Diable {Devilled Caviare). 3 oz. Russian caviare, i oz. sweet almonds, blanched and peeled, i lemon, bread for croutes, cayenne or Nepaul pepper, -1- oz. butter. Cut the bread into slices about half-inch thick, stamp out some rounds three-quarter inch in diameter, scoop out the centre, and fry in clarified butter or lard a golden colour. Shred the almonds, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake a fawny colour. Mix the caviare with the juice of half a lemon (using a wooden fork or spoon), add the almonds and a pinch of cayenne. Mix the butter with a little red pepper to give it a bright colour, spread on a plate and put on the ice. Fill the croutes with the prepared caviare, stamp out some little butter stars, and place one in each croiite. When required for table put in a hot oven for six minutes to get hot through ; dish up, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Crepes au Caviar {Caviare Pancakes). Prepare some caviare as in the foregoing recipe, spread over some freshly-fried thin pancakes (savoury) with a thin lay^er of anchovy butter and a layer of caviare. Roll up, and cut into neat86o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. pieces, bake in a quick oven for a few seconds. Dish up, and serve hot with quarters of lemon. Palmettes de Caviar. Procure a small jar of best Russian caviare, mix it with a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice and two finely-chopped shallots. Stir with a wooden fork or wooden skewer. Prepare a few slices of plain or toasted brown bread, cut them into heart shapes of even size. Spread over one side of each with caviare. Cream some fresh butter and mix with a little lobster coral ; put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet, and decorate the border of each with this butter. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a silver dish (pointed ends of the croutes inwards, so as to form a rosette shape), garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and quartered lemon. Serve cold. Croutes de Laitance de Cabillaud a la Madras {Cod’s Roe Cronies). -J II3. cod roe smoked, onion, a clove of garlic, 2 tablespoonfuls tamarind pulp, I tablespoonful chutney, i teaspoonful curry powder, ij oz. butter, I hard-boiled egg, i French gherkin, 8 oval-shaped pieces of fried bread. Cut the cod roe into eight slices, chop the onion and garlic very finely, then fry in the butter; stir in the curry powder, fry a little, and add the tamarind pulp, chutney, and lemon-juice ; stir until it boils, then lay in the slices of cod roe and let them get hot through. Chop the gherkin, cut a few fanciful slices of the white of egg, chop the remainder, also the yolk. Dress each slice of cod roe with a sufficient quantity of pulp on the fried pieces of bread ; decorate with the gherkins, white of egg, and yolk of egg, so as to produce a neat design ; dish up, re-heat for a few minutes, and serve. Laitance de Harengs a la Broche [Herring Roes on Skewers). Toss some herring roes in butter and finely chopped shallots (well blended), fasten each with a small silver skewer, and place each on a piece of toasted bread cut to the required size and spread over with anchovy paste. Dish up, and garnish with parsley and lemon quarters. Laitances a la Diable. Soft roes of herring poached, drained, seasoned with cayenne, and served on suitably cut slices of toasted and buttered bread. Laitances a la Janette. Small boat-shaped paste crusts, filled with cheese custard, and surmounted by soft roes of herring. Laitances a I’Ecossaise. The same as Janette (see above), the paste crusts being filled with scrambled egg mixture in place of cheese custard, with a soft roe of herring on top of each. Laitances a la Tzarina. Soft herring roes, poached in white wine, chablis or sauterne, fine herb flavour, served in small cocotte pans, with a layer of caviare on each. A COCOTTE PAN.861 J FTER-DINNER SA VO URIES. Talmouses de Merluche fumee [Haddock Tahnouscs). 3 oz. Hour (sifted), 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of egg, I teaspoonful lemou-juicc, paprika and cayenne pepper, smoked haddock, a tablespoonful white sauce. Prepare a short-crust paste with the Hour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of cayenne, one ounce of cheese, one yolk of egg, lemon-juice, and a little water. Cook half a small haddock in a baking tin with a little butter in the oven for ten minutes, remove the skin and bones, and chop the hsh finely. Mix with the remainder of butter and cheese, season with paprika, and moisten with the sauce and half a yolk of egg. Roll out the paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds with a two-inch cutter, put a tablespoonful of the mixture in the centre of each round, wet the edges, and take up the edges in such a manner as to form a triangular shape similar to a Pope’s cap (talmouse), brush over with egg, sprinkle a tiny pinch of paprika on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot, Croutes a la Badminton. Toast some slices of bread and stamp out into rounds about two inches in diameter, spread with anchovy butter, upon these put a slice of tomato. Twist an anchovy fillet and place on top of each croute, fill the centre with finely chopped hard-boiled egg, yolk or white. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve cold. Croutes a la Baron. Rounds of fried bread (croutons), size of small cup mushrooms, spread with anchovy paste, each surmounted with a grilled mush- room and a soft roe of herring, seasoned and baked in sharp oven for a few minutes. Croutes a la Bedford [Bedford Toast). Cut three or four slices of stale bread of uniform size, toast them nicely, trim them neatly, and butter one side. Cut enough very thin slices of cooked ham to cover the slices of toast. Spread over rather freely with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, butter, and grated cheese. Place the toast in a hot oven for about five minutes to brown the surface. Dish up, and serve quickly. Croutes de Foie-gras a la Dumas. I small tin or tureen foie-gras pate, stale bread for croutes, 2 oz. butter, I dessertspoonful Madras chutney, i teaspoonful horseradish mustard, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, i tablespoonful sherry, i teaspoonful mild mulligatawny paste ; watercress for garnish. Remove the fat from the foie-gras, cut the foie-gras into oblong slices, stamp out or cut J-inch thick slices of bread and shape into oblong pieces a little larger than the foie-gras. Fry these a golden colour in the butter, drain, and let cool. Put the trimmings of the foie-gras in a mortar with the chutne5g mustard, and the rest of the ingredients named above ; pound till smooth and rub through a sieve. Cover one side of the fried bread croutes with a layer ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 862 the prepared puree, place the foie-gras upon this. Dish up and garnish with a few sprigs of freshly-gathered watercress. This dish may be served hot or cold. Croutes de Foie de Volaille {Chicken Liver Cronies). Cliicken livers, 6 to 8 thin slices of bacon, i oz. butter, cayenne, 6 to 8 oval- shaped croutes of fried or toasted bread, i saltspoonful mustard, meat glaze. Clean the livers, cut them in halves, sprinkle with pepper, roll each piece in a thin slice of bacon, broil over a brisk coal fire. Mix the butter with the mustard and a pinch of cayenne, spread the croCites with this, dish up, and place the broiled liver and bacon on the croutes, brush over with liquid meat glaze, garnish with fried parsley, and serve quickly. Croutes au Jambon {Ham Croutes). 8 or 9 fried bread croutes, 6 to 8 oz. cooked ham, | oz. butter, i shallot, 2 yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, pepper, gill cream. Cut some slices of stale bread, stamp out round or oval shapes by means of a paste-cutter, and fry them a light brown in hot fat. Fry a finely chopped shallot in half an ounce of butter, put in the ham, finely chopped, and stir over the fire till quite hot, then add the yolks of eggs and the cream, season with pepper, and stir until it thickens. Pour about a tablespoonful of the mixture on to the croutes, sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, dish up, and serve. Croutes a la Jubilee. Oval croutes of fried bread, spread over with puree of lobster, with a bearded oyster on top of each, and glazed in a sharp oven. Croutes a la Prince de Galles. These are small croustade shapes of fried bread, hollowed out and filled with hot cheese cream flavoured with curry. Croutes a la St. Georges. t dried haddock, \ pint milk, 2 eggs, i shallot, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. butter, brown bread, seasoning. Scald the fish, remove the skin and bones, break up the flesh into very small pieces, and put it in a saute-pan with the milk. Cook till tender, take up the fish, drain, and shred it as finely as possible. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the shallot (peeled and finely chopped) and the parsley ; blend a little, but do not let it get brown, then add the fish and stir over a gentle fire. Beat up the eggs, add about a couple of tablespoonfuls of the milk the fish was cooked in, season with a pinch of pepper and a pinch of nutmeg ; stir this into the pan containing the fish ; when it commences to set, remove it from the fire. Have ready some neatly-shaped croutes of fried brown bread, dress the mixture upon these ; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as after-dinner savoury or breakfast dish. Croutes de Merluche fume {Smoked Haddock on Toast). Smoked haddock minced, mixed with bechamel sauce, cheese, and egg-yolk, and heated ; spread on buttered toast and baked.J FTER-DINNER SA I 'O VRIES. 863 Petites Croiites a la Colmar {Small Savoury Croutcs with Ham). 10 to 12 small croutes of bread, fried in clarified butter or lard, 3 large Gorgona anchovies (boned), 2 hard-boiled eggs, 3 oz. fresh butter, a dust of Nepaul or paprika pepper, a few sprigs of parsley, tarragon and chervil, 2 or 3 thin slices of cooked ham. Pound the anchovies in a mortar, add to it the yolks of the hard- boiled eggs and the butter, mix well, season with a dust of pepper, chop the parsley and other herbs finely (a teaspoonful in all), and add to the mixture, rub this through a fine sieve and put it in a forcing-bag with a rose pipe. Stamp out the slices of ham to the size of the croutes, allowing one for each, place these on the croutes, force the prepared mixture tastefiflly on top of the ham, garnish each croute with hard-boiled white of egg (rubbed through a coarse wire sieve). Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. If the savoupv puree is desired a deeper pink, a few drops of liquid carmine should be mixed with it before it is passed through the sieve. Diables a Cheval {Devils on Horseback). Flatten out 8 to lo thinly cut rashers of bacon, and trim each neatly. Stone the same number of best French plums, insert in place a peeled Jordan almond, previously tossed in butter or olive oil, and highly seasoned with paprika, salt, and cayenne. Next roll each plum in a slice of bacon, skewer them, and grill over a bright fire for about six minutes, turning them frequently. Serve the rolls on silver skewers, on neatly cut slices of toasted bread or fried croutons, ranged on a rouncl or oval flat dish. Sardines au Parmesan, 12 sardines, lb. flour, 2 oz. parmesan cheese grated, i egg, i oz. butter, salt, cayenne or krona pepper, frying-fat. Sift the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre of the flour, put in a pinch of salt, a little grated cheese, the yolk of the egg, and a few drops of water. Work this to a stiff but smooth paste, which must be well kneaded for at least ten minutes. Place in the cool for half an hour. Cut the tails off six or eight sardines, wipe them gently with a damp cloth. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible and cut into oblong pieces. Oil the butter, dip each sardine in butter and roll in grated cheese, place on a piece of paste and wrap up neatly, seal the ends with white of egg. Drop into hot fat, fry gently a golden brown, take up, drain well. Sprinkle over with grated cheese mixed with a pinch of cayenne or krona pepper, and dish up. Eclairs de Sardines. Carefully remove the skins of eight to ten sardines and wrap each neatly in a piece of puff-paste, previously spread over with a little anchovy paste. Brush over with egg-yolk, sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese, and place on a baking-sheet. Mark the surface of the paste crossways with the point of a knife, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Serve hot or cold.864 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sardines a la Maire. 8 or 9 sardines, 3 yolks of eggs, oz. butter, i dessertspoonful cream, tr teaspoonful lemon-juice, a few tarragon leaves (finely chopped), a pinch of salt, a pinch of mustard, a pinch of cayenne, 9 fingers of toasted bread. Put the sardines on a board and remove the skin carefully with a cloth. (Use boneless sardines, “ sardines sans aretes,” in preference to the ordinary kind.) Place them on a buttered tin and heat up in the oven, to be ready by the time the coating mixture is finished. They must not be heated tod soon, otherwise they will get dry. Beat up the egg-yolks in a small stew-pan, add the butter, cream, and the seasoning, including the mustard and tarragon. Stir over the fire till the mixture begins to thicken, then add the lemon-juice. Keep hot, but do not allow it to boil. Have the fingers of toasted bread ready, place a sardine on each of them, dish up, and pour about a dessertspoonful of the above mixture over each, so as to completely cover the sardines. Serve hot. Canapes a la Jamaique {Turile Savoury). 1 small glass jar or tin of turtle fat, 6 prawns, 2 oz. butter, i teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 tablespoonfuls panurette (red breadcrumbs), parsley, 2 to 3 slices toasted bread, seasoning. Pick the prawns, pound them in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the anchovy paste and about an ounce of the butter, season with salt and cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut the toasted bread into convenient shapes, oblong, square or round. Spread one side of each with the prepared butter, cut the green turtle fat into slices the same size as the toasted bread slices. Melt the remainder of the butter, add to it about a teaspoonful of hnely chopped parsley, dip each piece of turtle fat in this, and roll in the red breadcrumbs (panurette), then place them on the toast and put in a sharp oven for eight minutes to get thoroughly hot. Sprinkle over a pinch or two of cayenne as they leave the oven. Dish up quickly, and send to table at once. Canapes a la Madras. 3 anchovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked ciiicken, i dessertspoonful Madras chutney (Empress brand), 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks, 2 oz. butter, .seasoning, pistachios, and toasted bread. Pound anchovies and chicken in a mortar till fine, add the chutney and egg-yolks, pound again and mix thoroughly with one ounce of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and rub through a sieve. Cut the toasted bread into oval shapes (by means of a paste-cutter), butter each with a thin layer of butter, and spread over thickly with the prepared farce. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Canapes aux Olives farcies {Stuped Olive Canapes). Stone twelve large Spanish olives, fill the cavity of each with foie-gras puree, lobster puree, anchovy or sardine paste. Stamp out twelve rounds of brown bread one-sixth of an inch thick, fry them in clarified butter and drain, and spread over with lobsterAFTER DINNER SA VOURIES. 865 or anchovy butter ; fix a stuffed olive in the centre of each, and twist an anchovy fillet round the olive. Heat up and serve hot, or, if CANAPES AUX OLIVES E'ARCIES. served cold, decorate with chopped aspic or whipped cream, and garnish with sprigs of chervil or tarragon leaves. Canapes a la Romanofl [Tminv Fish Savoury). Pound 6 oz. preserved tunny fish (thon marine), add to it when quite smooth three tablespoonfuls of clotted cream. Season with salt, paprika, and cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix about h 8'ill of aspic jelly (p. 132) with the above, and spread on a clean baking-sheet, and let it set on the ice. Prepare 8-10 neatly cut (oblong, oval or finger shapes) fried bread croutons, drain well ancl let cool, then spread them on one side with anchovy butter. Cut out the prepared tunny-fish mixture to the same shape as the croutons, and place one on each. Cut some thin strips of pimiento and gherkins, and range these in lattice pattern on top of the canapfe. Dish them up neatly and serve. Canapes de Sardines a la Soubise. Prepare a soubise puree (onion puree) ; incorporate a little grated cheese and bechamel sauce, and reduce to a thick sauce ; spread some toasted bread with this and place some skinned and boned sardines upon it. Cut into fingers, cover each with more sauce, and sprinkle over grated cheese and breadcrumbs. Bake in a sharp oven for five minutes, dish up, and serve. Bonnes-Bouches a la President {Cold). About r lb. ]iuff-]iaste, 4 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. cooked ham (lean), | gill aspic, a few drops of chilli vinegar, seasoning, gill bechamel sauce, t- giU tomato sauce, 4 oz. cooked chicken, i dessertspoonful capers, ’ leaves of gelatine, a handful of small cress radishes. Roll out the paste, and line a number of small plain bouche moulds ; prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, and fill each with dry peas, barley or rice. Bake them in a quick oven a pale brown. Turn out the moulds, removing at the same time the peas or rice, and set the crusts to cool. iMeantime heat up the sauce, add to 3 ITHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. S66 this the aspic and the gelatine, previously soaked ; when dissolved, strain and put back on the fire in a small stew-pan. Then add the egg-yolks, stir over the fire till the liaison is formed ; then add the chicken meat and ham, both chopped finely, also the capers (these may be left whole). Season to taste with a few drops of chilli vinegar, aromatic spice, and cayenne pepper. As the mixture begins to set, fill the bouche cases ; set them on the ice to cool, dish up, and garnish with small salad. Bonnes-Bouches a la Riviera. Prepare a choux-paste in the usual way with i gill of water, \ oz. of butter, 2 oz. of Vienna lioiu', i whole and i yolk of egg, and I oz. grated cheese. When finished, put the paste into a forcing- bag with a plain tube and force out small heaps of even size on to a greased baking-tin. Bake them in a fairly hot oven, cut a small piece off the top of each, and remove the inside soft part. Next prepare a mixture composed of one whole and one yolk of egg, beaten with a quarter gill of cream and six bearded oysters cut rather small. Mix this well ; season with salt and cayenne, and fill the choux-paste crust with it ; on top of each place a round of thinly cut gruy^re cheese. Bake in a slow oven from six to eight minutes, then dish up, and serve hot. Eclairs d’Anchois {Anchovy Eclairs). Bone eight to ten gorgona anchovies and wrap each in puff or rough puff-paste, or coat with choux-paste. Brush over with egg- yolk, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven. Petites Condoles a I’Anchois {Anchovy Gomloles). Line a nxnnber of little boat moulds with cassolette paste, fill them with anchovy custard. Sprinkle the top of the gondoles with brown breadcrumbs or pannrette, and bake in a very hot oven for fifteen minutes ; nnmould, dish up, and serve. Anchois a la Vatel (Baked Anchovy Savoury). 10 or 12 gorgona anchovies, lb. chicken forcemeat, a teaspoonful of finely chopped fine herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil—of the latter two only a very small quantity), about -V teaspoonful chopped shallot, | oz. of butter, 6 small preserved mushrooms, a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of brown breadcrumbs, 12 fingers of toasted bread, 1-oz. of grated cheese. Wipe the anchovies carefully with a cloth, open the middle of each without dividing them entirely in halves ; trim off the head and tail portions, remove the backbone. Mi.x the forcemeat with the chopped herbs and shallot, and fill the inside of the anchovies with this ; press the fish together and put into shape. Butter a round silver or fireproof china dish, put each fish on a finger of toasted bread, and arrange them neatly on the dish so as to form a pleasing pattern. Chop the mushrooms very finely, sprinkle over the fish ; put the grated cheese and breadcrumbs in a similar way over the surface, place the remaining butter in little bits here and there ; wipe the edges of the dish, bake in a moderately-heated oven from ten to fifteen minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve at once.867 A FTER-DINNER SA VO URIES. Cassolettes d’Ecrevisses Richelieu {Praw>n Cassolettesj. Make a batter with two ounces of Hour (sifted) diluted with half a gill of tepid water, quarter of an ounce of melted butter, two yolks of eggs, and the white of one whisked to a froth. Have ready some hot fat in a deep pan, dip a greased fritter mould into the prepared butter so as to completely coat the outside ; plunge it into hot fat for a few minutes, remove the paste crust, and con- tinue thus until eight to ten cassolette cases are produced. For the filling of these use twelve prawns, three tablespoonfnls bechamel sauce, half ounce lobster butter, one egg, half ounce grated parmesan cheese, one tablespoonfnl cream, one tablespoonfnl anchovy essence, and cayenne or paprika to season. Remove the tails from the prawns and chop them rather finely, incorporate the sauce, heat up, and add the cream, lobster butter, anchovy essence, grated cheese, and lastly the yolks of eggs. Season with pepper, and mix the whisked white of egg in lighthu Fill the cassolettes with this, and bake them in a moderate oven for five minutes. Surmount each with a prawn head. Dish np, and serve. Cassolettes d’Issigny {Butter Cassolettes). Shape a pound of best fresh or salt butter into small timbales or other suitable cassolette shapes. Put them on the ice for half an hour, then egg and crumb them twice. Fry them in very hot deep fat to a golden colour, take up and drain them. Cut out a small round of the crust of each and drain off the liquid butter contained inside. Fill the cassolettes thus formed with a delicate mixture—i.e. fine salpicon of chicken or sweetbread, prawns or lobster, blended with suitable sauce. Dish up, replace the little lid on each, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Petits Pates de Crevettes {Small Praivn Patties). I- lb. short-crust paste or puff-paste trinimiugs, i doz. prawns, i gill Hollandaisc sauce, it oz. butter. Roll out the paste, line six to eight small dariole-moulds, fill up with rice, and bake a nice colour. Take out the rice and place on a sieve. Pick the prawns; cut the tails in neat pieces. Prepare a little prawn butter with the shells and the half-ounce of butter. \\"arm up the hollandaise, add the prawn butter and the prawns, fill the cases, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Petits SouiTles au Thon {Tunny Fish Soufflh). 4 oz. preserved tunny-fish, 6 boned anchovies, i hard-boiled egg, 3 boned sardines, 2 i- oz. grated cheese, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, i oz. butter, 4 table- spoonfuls reduced bechamel, oz. panurette or breadcrumbs, pepper and cayenne, i white of egg, 8 china or paper souffle cases. Pouncl in a mortar the tunny fish, anchovies, and sardines, add an ounce of grated cheese, one tablespoonful of cream, two table- spoonfuls of 3vell-reduced bechamel sauce, hard-boiled egg, and the butter ; work tvell till smooth, season with a little pepper and pinch of cayenne. Rub through a wire sieve, and fill the souffle cases, previously buttered, three-parts full. Put them on a baking- tin, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. In the meantimeTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 868 put one and a half ounce grated cheese, the remainder of the cream and bechamel sauce, pauurette or breadcrumbs, and white of egg, well beaten, in a small stew-pan ; add a pinch of cayenne, and stir over the lire for a few minutes, so as to get it thoroughly hot ; put a tablespbonful of this into each of the partly-baked souffles, return to the oven for another five minutes to brown the surface. Dish up, and serve very hot. Tartines a la Florentine. Roll out an oblong piece of puff-paste, using grated cheese in place of Hour for dredging. Spread half with anchovy and lobster butter, cover with the other half, trim the edges, and cut into six to eight even-sized portions. Put them on a baking-sheet and bake for ten minutes. Melt one ounce of butter, stir in one ounce of grated cheese, three egg-yolks, and half a gill of cream ; whisk over the fire till it becomes thick, then spread over the baked pastry. Dish up, put a few thin slices of truffle and pistachios on the top of each, sprinkle with krona pepper, return to the oven for a few moments, then send to table. Tartines de Homard, St. Martin {Lobster Fingers). I oz. lobster puree or lobster butter, li- oz. fresh butter, 3 yolks of eggs, glass of old port, salt, cayenne, slices of toasted bread. Melt the butter in a small stew-pan, add the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire for a few seconds ; leave long enough to heat through without boiling. Remove and add the lobster puree or butter, also the port wine ; stir well, season with salt and cavenne. Cut some fingers of freshly-toasted bread, put a thick layer of the preparation on each, put the fingers on a baking-sheet, bake for two minutes in a hot oven. Dish up, and serve very hot. Batons feuilletes a THomard {Lobster Puffs). lb. puff-paste, + small lobster, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful anchovy paste, grated parmesan cheese, i dessertspoonful double cream, i tea spoonful lemon-juice, salt, pepper, cayenne, i yolk of egg. Roll out the paste and cut it into slices a cpiarter of an inch thick, an inch wide, and three inches long. Place them on a baking- sheet, allowing about half an inch of space between each slice of paste. Dust over with egg-yolk, sprinkle with grated parmesanA FTEli-DlNNER SA VO URIES. 869 cheese, bake a nice colour in a moderate oven. Put the meat of the lobster in a mortar and pound well, add the remainder of the above-named ingredients. When smooth, season to taste, and put through a fine sieve. Split open the baked slice of paste, sj)read each half with the prepared puree, place them together and re-heat. Dish up on a dish with a folded napkin or lace-paper. Garnish with crisp parsley, and serve hot or cold. Croutes de Homard {Fried Lobster Crofdes). Cut some freshly-toasted slices of bread into even-sized pieces, fry them very slightly in a little butter, and drain them. Have ready a mixture composed of lobster puree moistened with bechamel or other good white sauce, egg-yolk, cream, and the needful seasoning. Put a dessertspoonful of this on each bread croute, spread it neatly with the blade of a knife, egg and crumb them carefully, and plunge into very hot fat for a few minutes. Take up, drain, and dish neatly on a hot dish. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Ballons de Saumon fume [Smoked Salmon Rolls). I tin preserved lax or 6 oz. smoked salmon. 6 to 8 small round rolls, 2 lianl- boiled eggs, a teaspoonful chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives, j table- spoonfuls sweet oil, i ditto of French vinegar, a few capers, pepper and salt, parsley. Rasp the rolls all over, cut them into halves, scoop out the crumb, and put the crusts to dry in a cool oven. Cut some neat strips of the lax or smoked salmon, chop the remainder rather coarsely, chop up the eggs, and put both in a basin ; add the chopped herbs, season with the oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Mix w'ell, and fill the rolls with this; arrange the strips of salmon over the filling of the rolls in the form of lattice-work, put a caper in each cavity. Dish up on a ’ folded napkin or dish-paper in a pyramidal form, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Croustades de Saumon a la Diable [Devilled Salmon). \ 11). of smoked salmon or 1 tin lax, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i tea- spoonful chopped shallot, V oz. butter, curry powder and cayenne, } lb. short-crust paste or puff-paste. Roll out the paste and line with it ten small tartlet-moulds, prick the bottom wdth a fork to prevent blisters in baking, fill up with some rice or dry peas, bake a golden colour, take out the870 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. rice or peas, and the crusts on a baking-tin. Cut the salmon into tine shreds. Melt the butter in a small saute-pan, put in the shallot, and fry a light brown, then add the salmon or slices of lax, toss over the fire, taking care not to mash up the fish. Season with a good pinch of curry powder and a pinch of cayenne. Shake well and mix in the parsley. Fill up the crusts with this, bake for a few minutes, and serve. Duchesses de Lax a la Haakon. Prepare an unsweetened choux-paste, put it in a forcing-bag with plain tube and force out on to a greased baking-sheet 10-12 little bee-hive shaped heaps. Bake them in a fairly hot oven. Scoop out the soft part from the bottom, whilst hot, and let cool. Cut into"fine shreds the contents of i tin of lax or lb. of smoked salmon. Mix'"with finely shredded cucumber and a little mayonnaise sauce, and fill the little choux with this. Keep them on the ice, and mask over with semi-liquid aspic. Dish up, garnish with finely shredded celery and endive, and serve. Filets de Lax a la Diable {Devilled Lax). I tin of lax, i oz. butter, i saltspoonful of curry powder, a pinch of cayenne, file yolk of a hard-boiled egg, brown bread, parsley, watercress, and lobster coral. Cut about six slices of stale brown bread about half an inch thick, toast them nicely, and trim. Mix the butter and yolk of egg into a puree, add curry and cayenne, and spread the toast with this mixture. Open a tin of lax, lay as many of the fillets as are required in a cloth to drain. Range the fillets on the pieces of toast so as to completely cover them, put them on a buttered tin, cover with a piece of buttered paper, place them in a hot oven for five minutes. Cut them into fingers, sprinkle each alternately with chopped parsley and lobster coral, and dish up. Garnish with sprigs of watercress, seasoned with a little oil and vinegar, and serve. Losanges a la Baltimore. r lb. flour (sifted), 5 oz. buffer, 2 oz. parmesaii or gruyere cheese, i egg, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, a teaspooiiful cream, a little milk, i oz. anchovy paste, I tin preserved lax.APter-dInner sa f’u urIes. 871 Rub the butter into the flour, mix in the grated cheese, moisten with the yolk of one egg, and work into a smooth paste by adding a little milk. Roll out the paste, about jV of inch thick, and make it into two strips of about three inches wide. Mix the anchovy paste with a hard-boiled egg-yolk and a teaspoonfnl of cream, spread this evenly over one piece of the paste, arrange a layer of preserved lax on this, and put the other piece of paste upon it. Trim the edges. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, mix it with cayenne or paprika pepper and a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence ; spread this thinly and evenly over the paste, and cut into even-sized fingers. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes ; arrange the fingers neatly on a hot dish, covered with a lace-paper or folded napkin, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. Allumettes d’Anchois {Anchovy Matches). Roll out thinly some short-paste crust, and spread it with a thin layer of anchovy paste, and cut into thin strips, place on a baking- sheet, and bake in a quick oven. Allumettes de Crabes aux Pistaches. Prepare a puree of finely-pounded crab meat, anchovy paste, a little white sauce, egg-yolk, cream, and the needful seasoning. Roll out two pieces of puff-paste of oblong shape, spread over the prepared puree, place them together and trim the edges. Then cut the paste into thin strips, place them on a greased baking-sheet and bake in a fairly hot oven. Just before they are finished brush them over with beaten egg and besprinkle with chopped pistachios. Return to the oven for another five minutes. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. TroMQons a la Tosca. lb. puff-paste or trimming, 6 oz. tunny fish (thou marine), 2 taltlespoon- fuls chutney, i tablespoonful bechamel sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, i table- spoonful cream, i teaspoonful curry paste, parmesan or gruyere cheese, seasoning, 8 crayfish or prawns, and 8 pimiento rings. Roll out the paste, besprinkle it with a little grated parmesan cheese and paprika or Nepanl pepper, fold it in three, and after ten minutes roll out to about i inch in thickness, and three inches wide. Trim the sides, and place the paste on a baking-sheet, and bake for five minutes. Pound the tunny fish, add one tablespoonful of chutney, curry paste, sauce, egg-yolks, and cream, and rub all through a fine sieve. Season to taste, and spread this over the partially baked paste crust, which must be trimmed neatly and spread over with the remainder of chutney finely chopped. Cut into even sized slices about one inch wide. Sprinkle over some grated gruyere cheese. Bake for about ten minutes in a sharp oven, dish up, place a prawn or crayfish tail on each, in a ring of pimiento, and serve hot. Beignets a la Madras {Madras Fritters). 4 slices of brown bread, 3 tablespoonfuls cliufney, i oz. butter, 4 slices of cooked ham, frying batter, frying fat, parsley.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Stamp out some rounds by means of a plain paste-cutter one and a half inch in diameter, spread each round with butter, and cover the buttered sides with a layer of chutney, place on this a round of ham the same size as the bread, and press together lightly. Dip each slice into frying batter and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Beignets a la Residence. Prepare and fry 6 thin unsweetened pancakes ; par-boil, drain, and cut into small dice 2 oz. of beef marrow ; chop finely 6 mush- rooms and 3 truffles, and mix together with sufficient Madere sauce to bind the mixture into a puree. Cut the pancakes into i-V inch wide strips, and spread over one side with this preparation, then roll up each strip and skewer, and let it get cold. Dip the rolls into a light frying or pancake batter, and fry in clarified butter to a golden colour. Drain carefully, remove the skewers, dish up, and serve. Beignets, Strasbourgeoise [Ham and Foie-gras Fritters). 6 to 8 slices of raw ham, i tcrriue or tin of foie-gras pate, parsley, frying batter (p. 135), frying fat. Stamp out some rounds of ham with an inch or i-|--inch cutter. Remove the lard from the foie-gras, cut it into convenient slices, stamp out each slice about the size of the ham. Spread a little of the frying batter with a knife over each slice of ham, place a slice of foie-gras between each two, and make up like sandwiches, the batter being, as it were, used as butter and the ham as bread. Coat each sandwich well with batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with quarters of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve with a small boat of tomato sauce. Beignets a la Venitienne {Savoury''Fritters). Prepare a choux-paste and incorporate one slice of ox-tongue, one slice of ham, four mushrooms (champignons), and one ounce of cooked chicken meat, all cut into small dice. Season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready a sufficient quantity of hot fat. Spread the mixture on a dish, and cut out some even-sized rounds by means of a paste- cutter or spoon, drop them into the fat and fry, slowty at first, till a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot with a boat of suitable sauce, such as piquante, tomato or poivrade sauce. Petites Croustades a la Medicis (Croustades, Medicis Style). ^ loaf stale bread, i raw egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i tin of lax, 2 French gherkins, i oz. butter, small cress, 4 fdletcd anchovies, i teaspoonful French mustard, Nepaul or paprika pepper. Pare the crust off the bread and cut it into .slices rather more than half an inch thick. Stamp out eight to ten ovals, about 2;f inches by 1 inch. Put the bread-trimmings through a wire sieve, and use for crumbing. Scoop out as much as possible of the centre of the ovals, immerse these in a little milk for about ten minutes.S73 AFTER-DINNER SA VO DRIES. then drain, dip in beaten egg, and crnmb all over, fry them a golden colour in hot fat and drain. Pound the anchovy fillets, the yolks of eggs (hard-boiled), and a small handfnl of cleaned small cress when line ; add the butter and mustard, season with a pinch of pepper, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the cavities of the croustades with this puree, place one or two slices of preserved lax on top of each, garnish with hard-boiled white of egg and gherkins in a tasty style, heat up quickly, and serve. Brioches a la Rochefort. For Savarin Paste.— i lb. Hour, oz. yeast, 2 egg-yolks, 2 gills milk, i oz. parmesan cheese grated, i pinch cayenne, salt ; | lb. rice, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, 4 oz. lioquefort cheese, 1 small terrine toie-gras, i gill beef stock, I gill tomato puree, salt, mustard, and paprika. Prepare a savoury savarin paste with the first-named ingredients, when this has sufficiently risen, fill up six to ten small buttered bouche moulds, and let tliem prove for ten minutes, then bake in a fairly hot oven for ab 0 u t t w e n t y m i n u te s. U nm o u 1 d the £ ;hapes as soon as baked, 1e t t h em cool a 1 i 111 e, then scoop out the cen t re of each, and keep hot. Clean the rice, toss it in a stew-pan in the butter ; add the stock and tomato puree, and season with salt, paprika, and mustard to taste. Chop the truffles coarsely, and the cheese finely; add both to the rice, and stir well, let it cook in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. Free the foie-gras from fat,' and cut into eight to ten rounds about if- inches in diameter. Chop up the trimmings, and mix with the rice mixture. Heat up the foie-gras, place a slice on top of each brioche croustade, sur- mounted with a slice of truffle. Glaze over with liquefied meat glaze. Dish up in a circle, and put the remainder of the savoury mixtirre in centre of dish. Serve hot. Zephires a la Parmentier. it lb. potato puree, 4 eggs, it oz. butter, i oz. potato flour, i oz. panurette or breadcrumbs, i oz. gruyere or parmesan (grated), 2 oz. lean cooked ham, I oz. cooked game or poultry, 2 preserved mushrooms, t tcaspoouful mi.\ed mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls E^pagnole or brown sauce, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Put the mashed potatoes with an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, stir until hot, season with a little pepper and salt, bind with two874 the new century COOKERY BOOK. yolks of eggs, and put on a dish to cool. Chop up the ham, game or poultry, and mushrooms, and pound in a mortar till smooth ; add two yolks of eggs, the mustard, the sauce, and the grated cheese, season with pepper and a pinch of nutmeg, and mix well. Butter some oval-shaped plain or fancy dariole-moulds, sprinkle well with panurette or breadcriimbs, fill up with the prepared potato puree, and bake in the oven a nice golden colour. Scoop out the interiors, and fill up with the pounded preparation. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt, cover the surface of each roughly with a little of the stiff whites of eggs, and return again into a qiiick oven, so as to colour the surface. Unmould carefully, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, and serve very hot. Tartelettes a la Polenta. lb. short-crust paste, 2 oz. polenta or cross-grained florador, ^ gill milk, 2 oz. grated parmesan, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. butter, 2 oz. cooked phea.'ant or chicken meat, 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 3 preserved mushrooms, i table- spoonful bechamel sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Roll out the paste very thin, stamp out some rounds with a fluted cutter, large enough to line eight to nine tartlet-moulds. Prick the paste with a fork when lined. Put the milk and half a gill of water in a stew-pan, add the butter and a pinch of salt: when boiling, stir in the polenta or florador. Cook over the fire ; while stirring for ten minutes, add the parmesan, remove from the fire, and work in the yolks of eggs. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, and let cool. Chop the chicken, tongue, and mushrooms finely, mix with the sauce, and season with pepper. This forms a salpicon. Half fill the lined tartlet-moulds with polenta mixture, put a dessertspoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each, and fill up with polenta mixture. Smooth over with a knife, brush over with oiled butter, sprinkle the surface well with grated cheese. Bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, unmould, and dish np on a hot dish. Flans de Crepes aux Epinards {French Spinach Pancakes). 4 lb. cooked spinach, 2 yolks' of eggs, i tablespoonful cream, i white of egg, breadcrumbs, |- pint pancake batter, 2 oz. butter, 10 small rashers nacon, salt, pepper, nutmeg, pinch of sugar. Put the spinach through a sieve. Heat up in a stew-pan with the cream and a little stock or gravy ; when hot, stir in the yolks of eggs, season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Take off the fire and let cool. Prepare a number of thin pancakes (fried in butter). Spread some of the prepared spinach on one side of each pancake, placing them together in twos ; stamp out some rounds by means of a plain two-inch cutter, dip in beaten white of egg, and crumb. Fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up in a row, place the rashers of bacon, nicely fried crisp, on each side, garnish with a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato or piquante sauce.AFTER-DINNER SA VO DRIES. «75 Pannequets Moscovite {Riissia)i Pancakes). \"ery thinly fried small pancakes (unsweetened), cut into squares, spread over with caviare, seasoned with cayenne, and rolled iq). Dish nj), and serve with quarters of lemon. Rissolettes a la Solferino {Austrian Pancake Fritters). 1 pint pancake batter, i oz. butter, 4 oz. foie-gras (potted), 4 mushrooms preserved), 2 oz. cooked sweetbread, i gill veloutee (p. 161) or bechamel auce, I egg, seasoning, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, and about 2 oz. chicken orcemeat. Fry some very thin pancakes, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Prepare a salpicon as follows : Cut the foie-gras (with truffles), mushrooms, and sweetbread into very small dice, put this in a saute-pan with the sauce ; when thoroughly hot add the yolk of an egg ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put it on a plate and let cool. Then shape into little balls, place these in the centre of the rounds of pancake. Put a little raw chicken forcemeat round the edge of each, and fold over the same as rissoles. Brush over with egg, dip in breadcrumbs, and fry a golden colour. Dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. Friandines a la Westphalienne. About f lb. puff-paste, i oz. anchovy paste, 6 thin slices of raw Westphalian ham, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, -J gill bechamel sauce, gill cream, -J- oz. butter, the breast of a cooked pheasant or fowl, 2 small gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, 3 slices pickled beetroot. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, cut into strips about two inches wide, spread half the strips with anchovy paste, and cover with the other half. Stamp out eight rounds two inches in diameter, also the same number of rings, but somewhat smaller than the rounds. Place these on a baking-sheet, bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, and let cool. Pound the cooked veal or rabbit in a mortar till smooth, add the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, the cream, sauce, and butter, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper, work well so as to mix the ingredients thoroughly, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread the large rounds with this puree, place the rings on top, put some of the puree in a cornet, cut the point, and shape a circle on top of the rings with the puree. Cut the slices of ham conveniently so as to form each into a roll, place on the puree (upright), hll the centre with ragout of pheasant or chicken, beetroot and gherkins, all cut into small dice and seasoned with mayonnaise sauce. Ornament the top and sides with the remainder of the puree, by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a fancy tube, dish up, and serve. Petits Souffles a la Mirabeau. Make salpicon of foie-gras, sweetbread, cocks’ combs, and trntile. Moisten this with a well-flavoured Madeira sauce, and half fill with it a number of china or plated souffle cases (buttered). Put a dessertspoonful of cheese-flavoured choux-paste on top of each case, spread it over smoothly, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, and serve hot.6y6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Petits Souffles a la Gramont. Prepare a number of cassolette cases, made by lining very small moulds with nouille paste. When baked and cold, till them with the following : a layer of chicken souffle, then a layer of duxelle puree, on this a slice of royal custard, sprinkle with a little meat glaze, and put a thin slice of truffle on top of each. Cover with buttered paper, and bake for ten minutes in a sharp oven. Serve hot. Petits Souffles a I’Agrasienne. Line some small bouche or deep tartlet moulds with thinly rolled-out nouille paste, prick the bottom and fill with dried peas ; bake them a nice colour and let cool. Prepare a mixture of cooked sweetbread, truffle, and mushroom, all cut into small dice. Moisten this with a rich curry sauce. Three-parts fill the pastry cases with this, then fill up with a choux-paste mixture, well flavoured with cheese. Bake the cases thus prepared in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. Petits Choux en Surprise. For choux-paste ; i gill water, i oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, i egg aird i yolk, oz. grated cheese. For cream mi.xture : 6 oz. smoked haddock, i oz. butter, gill whipped cream, seasoning, meat glaze, and chopped pistachios. Boil up the water, adding a pinch of salt, and the butter, sift the flour, and stir it into the water when boiling. Work it vigorously over the fire till quite smooth, next add the grated cheese, and let cool a little, work in the eggs, the whites of which may be whisked if liked. Put the paste in a forcing-bag with a plain pipe and press out little heaps on a greased baking- sheet about an inch or so apart from each other. Bake in a moderate oven to golden colour. Heat up the had- dock, finely chopped, with the butter, pound it in a mortar and rub through a sieve, add the cream and seasoning, salt and pepper, and cayenne or paprika. Slit the baked souffles and fill them with this mixture, brush them over with a little dissolved meat glaze, and besprinkle with chopped pistachios. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. Petits Choux a la Suedoise. Make a choux paste with a gill of w'ater, i oz. of butter, a pinch of salt, 2 oz. of sifted flour, i oz. of grated cheese, and 2 eggs. Put the paste into a savoy bag and force out small even-sized heaps on to a buttered baking-sheet, then bake in a moderate oven and let cool. Make an incision on the side of each choux, and remove .some of the interior. Fill them with a puree made of 8 anchovy877 AFTER-DINNER SAVOURIES. fillets, I oz. of butter, 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and 1-2 tabic- spoonfuls of cream. When the choux are hlled brush over with liquid aspic and besprinkle with chopped lobster coral and chopped truffle. Dish up and serve. Biscotins au Fromage [Cheese Biscotines). 2 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, gill of milk, J- gill cream, 2 oz. grated gruj^ere cheese, i oz. grated parmesan cheese, oz. butter, seasoning, \ lb. choux-paste. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the milk and cream and half an ounce of gratecl cheese, and season with very little salt, white pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Fill ten to ttvelve small tartlet- moulds (previously buttered) with this mixture, put them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Mix the choux-paste with one ounce of grated cheese. Meanwhile roll out the choux-paste and stamp out as many rounds as there are tartlets, and of similar size ; put them on a buttered baking-tin and bake a golden colour. Place them on a hot dish, dress the cooked custards on these croutes, sprinkle them freely with grated cheese, hold the dish under a red-hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve at once. Niokis a la Nantua. Mix or blend J lb. cooked rice with a little cream, crayfish butter, prawns, and truffles, cut up into very small dice. Prepare eight egg-shaped niokis, and poach them in seasoned milk. Arrange the rice on a gratin-dish, place the niokis on top, sprinkle over bread- crumbs, cheese, and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and serve. Niokis au Gratin [Gnocchi, Gnokis, or Noques). 2 oz. butter, -h pint water, 3 oz. flour or 2 oz. florador, 2 eggs, 3 oz. grated cheese, 3 oz. chopped ham, li gill bechamel sauce, salt, and paprika pepper. Put the water and butter in the stew-pan, add a pinch of salt, stir in when boiling the flour or florador, and work over the fire until it becomes perfectly smooth, like a pate a choux. Remove the pan from the fire, let the paste cool a little, then add the eggs one at a time, and work in at the same time a handful of grated878 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cheese and the ham roughly chopped. Divide the paste, shape it into little (pienelle shapes on a floured board, put these into boiling water, and cook for a few minutes. Drain the quenelles on a sieve, let cool, and arrange them neatly on a buttered gratin-dish. Cover with well-reduced bechamel sauce, sprinkle well with grated cheese, season with a good pinch of paprika, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Stand the dish on a folded napkin, and serve very hot. Macaroni a la Calabraise. Boil h lb. of large macaroni, drain and range in a gratin-dish with alternate layers of tomato puree, grated parmesan cheese, and white sauce, besprinkle the top with grated cheese’ and butter, then brown in a sharp oven or under the salamander. Tartelettes de Macaroni. This dish consists of cooked macaroni tossed in butter and moistened with bechamel sauce, filled into baked tartlet crusts covered with grated cheese, and baked in a sharp oven to brown the surface. Bouchees a la Caroline. These are small cup or bouche shapes of savoury rice, fried in deep fat, scooped out in centre and filled with scrambled eggs. Gnokis a la Suisse. These consist of cheese-flavoured choux-paste made into small quenelles poached in stock, drained, after which they are dipped in egg and fried in butter. Noisettes au Parmesan. These are small ball shapes made of unsweetened choux-paste, mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in deep fat. Beignets a la Gruyere {Cheese Fritters). About 1- lb. choux-paste, 6 oz. gruyere cheese, i egg, soft breadcrumbs, salt, Nepaul pepper, fat for frying. Cut the cheese into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out some ovals with a pastry-cutter, wipe each piece with a dry cloth, coat one side of each piece of cheese with choux-paste, smooth over with a palette-knife, beat up the eggs. Have ready a plateful of breadcrumbs, mix with them two saltspoonfuls of salt and a good pinch of Nepaul pepper. Dip the slices of cheese in the egg-ernmb, let the coating get dry, then egg and crumb again. Let them stand for a few minutes, then plunge them into hot fat, and fry until a golden colour. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve quickly. Petites Croutes au Fromage {Cheese Croiites). stale white or brown bread, clarified fat or butter for frying, i oz. fresh butter, I yolk of egg, i dessertspoonful cream or milk, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, i oz. breadcrumbs, pepper, .salt, and cayenne. Cut some slices of bread about half an inch thick, stamp out some rounds one and a quarter inch in diameter, mark the centre with a smaller cutter, and scoop out the centre to receive the filling. Prepare a mixture with the cream, egg-yolk, butter, cheese, and breadcrumbs ; season to taste. Fry the hollowed croutes in hot fat879 AFTER-DINNER SA VOURIES. a golden colour, drain, and fill with the cheese mixture ; heaj) nji, and smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, put it itr the oven for a few minutes, or hold under a hot salamander long enough to brown the top, and serve on a folded napkin. Diablotines a la Gruyere. Line a dozen small dariole moidds with very thin ordinary paste ; boil up a gill of milk in a stew-pan, add one ounce of butter, mix with half an ounce of cornflour, also three ounces of grated gruyere cheese ; stir well over the fire, and mix with two beaten eggs, season with a little salt and highly with cayenne. Half fill the moulds with this'preparation, put a small quantity of anchovy or bloater paste in the centre of each, cover with the remaining mixture, sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven a light brown, turn out, and serve quickly on a folded napkin. Petites Marquises a la Suisse. l lb. puff-paste trimmings, pint milk, i oz, flour, i oz. butter, i bay-leaf, 1 small onion, i clove, salt, mignonette pepper, parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. grated gruyere cheese, 6 oz. choux-paste. Peel the onion, stick in the clove ; put this, the milk, bay-leaf, and a sprig of parsley in a small stew-pan and boil for a few minutes ; melt the butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, and cook for some minutes without letting the flour take colour ; moisten with the boiled milk ; stir until it boils. Add half an ounce of cheese, season to taste, and let simmer gently for ten minutes ; then strain through a pointed strainer, and add the yolks of eggs, mix well, and let cool. Roll out the paste, stamp out some rounds, and line six or eight bouche, cup or small tartlet moulds ; prick the bottoms with a fork, put a tablespoonful of the prepared sauce into each, sprinkle with grated cheese ; upon this put a layer of choux-paste forced through a cornet or forcing-bag ; dredge the surface with grated cheese, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Lhr- mould, dish up on a foldecl napkin or lace-paper covered dish, and serve hot. Marquises au Parmesan. About I lb. of brioche or choux-paste, 4 eggs, i J- oz, grated parmesan cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls of meat glaze, i tablespooiiful of chopped parsley, I oz, of butter, i tablespoonful oi cream, pepper and salt. Blitter eight oval boat-shaped moulds, fill three-parts full with brioche paste, let stand in a warm place for about an hour, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour. Turn out of the moulds ; cut carefully round the edge of the surface, and remove the top. Scoop out tile soft part of the inside ; melt the meat glaze, mask the interior of cases and lids with the glaze, and place them, hollow parts downwards, on a sieve to drain. Put the butter, eggs, cream, and grated cheese in the stew-pan, beat up well and stir over the fire until it thickens ; then add the parsley and seasoning. When suffi- ciently set, fill up the cases, replace the lids, put in the mouth of the oven for a few seconds, dish up on a hot dish, brush over the surface with meat glaze, and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 880 Batons a la Gruyere {Swiss Cheese Batons). 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i pint milk, 3 eggs, i oz. grated pannesan cheese, 1 oz. gruyere cheese. Sift the flour. Put about half an ounce of butter and the milk into a stew-pan, add salt, pepper, cayenne, and grated nutmeg to taste. When it boils, stir in the flour and work vigorously over the fire until the paste is smooth and leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Let cool a little, then work in one by one the yolks of three eggs and the grated cheese. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and incorporate also, together with the remainder of the butter, previously oiled. Pour the mixture into a well buttered baking- ‘sheet or saute-pan, and sprinkle over with a layer of finely shredded gruyere cheese. Bake in a moderately‘heated oven, cut it into convenient oblong slices (baton shapes), and serve as hot as possible. Biscuits de Fromage a la Creme {Cheese Biscuits with Cream). 3 oz. Vienna flour, i oz. Paisley flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. pannesan cheese (grated), h lemon, 2 yolks of eggs, gill cream, salt, and cayenne pepper. Put the flour into a basin, mix it with about a quarter of a tea- spoonful of salt and a pinch of cayenne, rub in the butter until quite smooth, then add three ounces of grated parmesan cheese, the juice of half a lemon, the two yolks of eggs, and work into a stiff paste. If too short for rolling, add a few drops of milk, but the less the better. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some round shapes, place them on a baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake for ten minutes in a hot oven. Whip the cream, add the remaining ounce of cheese and a pinch of cayenne, put a little pyramid in the centre of each biscuit by means of a forcing-bag or cornet, and serve cold on a folded napkin or dish-paper. Boules au Parmesan {Parmesan Balls). 6 oz. fine breadcrumbs, 6 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 eggs, cayenne, panurette (red breadcrumbs), frying-fat. Mix the fresh breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and butter well together. Add a pinch of cayenne, beat up the eggs and add enough to form a paste. Shape this into balls about the size of walnuts, brush over with beaten egg, roll in red breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat a nice colour. Drain, dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, and serve hot. Kish au Parmesan a la Pouard. Beat up eight yolks of eggs, add a gill and a half of milk or cream, an ounce and a half of grated parmesan cheese, a good pinch of cayenne pepper, and a tiny pinch of salt. Pour the mixture into small silver or china soifffle cases, bake in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. Quenelles au Parmesan {Cheese Quenelles). 4 oz. breadcrumbs, 6 oz. butter, a pint good stock, 8 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 4 eggs, bechamel sauce, grated nutmeg. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, put in the breadcrumbs, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of stock, and work over the fire until the88 I AFTER-DIXNER SA VOURIES. mixture leaves the bottom and sides of the pan perfectly clean. Add two pinches of grated nutmeg and a ])inch of salt. Allow the mix- ture to cool a little, then stir in nearly all the cheese, tw(^ whole and the yolks of two eggs. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and add also. Put the remainder of stock in a stew-pan with half as much water, season to taste, and when boiling drop in by means of a tablespoon neat shapes of the mixture, boil for several minutes, then drain and dish up. Pour over some hot bechamel sauce, and serve. Failles au Parmesan [Cheese Straws). About 6 oz. putt-paste, 2 oz. freshly grated pariuesaii cheese, cayenne pepper. Roll out the paste, sprinkle well with grated cheese, fold in three, and give it one turn. Allow it to stand for ten minutes, and repeat the operation until the cheese is used up. Do not use any flour for flouring the board, use grated cheese in place. When rolling out for the last time sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper. Cut the paste into very narrow strips about three inches long, twist each strip in screw-like fashion, and place in rows on a wetted baking-sheet. Shape also four or five rings about an inch and a ejuarter in diameter. Bake the strips and rings in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Make up into bundles by means of the rings, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. Failles a la Yarmouth {Yarmouth Cheese Straws). Make some cheese straw’s, as directed in the foregoing recipe, and cut some thin strips of smoked herrings (kippers) the same size as the paste ; place one of each together and twist them like a screw. Fix them on a baking-sheet ancl bake in a sharp o^’en for a few minutes. Dish up neat, and serve hot. Faillettes au Farmesan. These are cheese straws made of ])nff-paste and grated cheese, as directed for “Failles au Parmesan,’’ but the paste must be cut into somewhat thinner strips, and then baked, Fetites Condoles au Farmesan [Cheese Gondolas). Line eight to ten small boat-shaped or oval moulds w’ith ordinary paste-crust, fill with peas or rice, bake in the oven a nice colour, and take out the rice or dried peas. Put in a stew-pan three table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, w'arm up, and add about a gill of savoury aspic, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Allow it to reduce a little. Incorporate with one tablespoonful of grated parmesan cheese and tw’o of grated grnyere cheese. W’hen perfectly cool add half a gill of w’hipped double cream. Fill a forcing-bag wdth the mixture and proceed to fill up the baked crusts, sprinkle the tops with grated parmesan, and serve. Aigrettes de Fromage [Cheese Aigrettes). 4 oz. flour dried and sifted, i oz. butter, 1 pint water, 2 eggs, 3 oz. grated parmesan and gruyere cheese, paprika or cayenne pepper, frying fat. Put the w'ater and butter in a stew-pan and bring to the boil. 3 KTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 882 Stir in the flour, and work the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until it leaves the sides of the pan clean. Allow to cool a little, and add one by one the eggs. Stir or beat up well, incorporate the grated cheese (keeping a little back for sprinkling over the aigrettes), and season with a little pepper and, if liked, salt. Drop the mixture by means of a dessertspoon into fairly hot fat, which must not be quite boiling at first. Fry gradually until they attain a golden colour. Drain the aigrettes on a paper or a cloth. Dish up, sprinkle over with grated cheese, and serve hot. Attereaux a rimperiale [Cheese Cubes on Skewers). 3 oz. semolina or coarse-grained florador, J pint milk, i egg, 2 yolks of eggs, lb. gruyere cheese, seasoning, oz. butter, breadcrumbs, frying-fat. Put the milk in a stew-pan, add a small blade of mace, one small bay-leaf, and the bittter ; when it boils, stir in the semolina or florador. Let it cook while stirring for about ten minutes, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg ; remove the mace and bay-leaf, add the two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of grated cheese. Stir over the fire until the liaison of egg is formed ; then turn out on a plate or dish and let cool. The cheese should be cut into quarter-inch thick slices and into rounds about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. When the mixture is cold stamp out some rounds the same size as the cheese ; fasten four rounds of the latter with alternate rounds of cheese (three) on to a skewer, and proceed thus until all the mixture and cheese are used up. Beat up the eggs, dip each skewer sepa- rately in egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. As soon as the frying is completed, remove the shapes from the skewers, and fasten them on to silver-plated skewers, fix these on a ronnd of toasted bread placed ready on a dish, and serve at once. Copeaux Favorits. 6 thin slices of streaky bacon, lb. of gorgonzola cheese, t lb. puff-paste, grated parmesan cheese, krona or paprika pepper, i egg. Cut each slice of bacon in two lengthways, and flatten each with a cutlet-bat as thinly as possible. Roll a small piece of gorgonzola cheese in each slice of bacon (the cheese must be of same length as the bacon, but cut in the shape of a strip so that it will roll up well). Season the cheese with krona or paprika. Roll out the puff-paste.883 AFTER-DINNER SA VOURIES. using grated cheese in j)lace of Hour for rolling, cut it into oblong pieces, and wrap the paste round the shapes of bacon and cheese in the form of rolls. Idace them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg-yolk, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. Gaufres au Parmesan {Cheese Wafers). Make a stiff but smooth paste with 6 oz. of flour, i yolk of egg, ^ oz. butter, a little milk, oz. of grated cheese, salt and pepper. Knead it well, and roll out, sprinkle over some grated parmesan cheese, fold in three, and let it rest for half an hour, then roll out again as thinly as possible. Stamp out as many rounds as possible, let them dry on pastry trays, then fry them in clarihed butter to a golden colour. Dish up, besprinkle with cheese, and serve hot. Condes au Fromage. Roll out thinly some puff-paste, using grated parmesan in place of Hour, cut into oblong pieces, and spread over with a thin layer of reduced bechamel sauce enriched with egg-yolks. Season with cayenne, sprinkle with shredded gruyere cheese, cut into finger shapes, and bake in a sharp oven. Dish up, and serve hot. Ballons de Fromage {Cheese Balls). Grate two ounces Cheddar cheese, put it into a basin, and mix with a teaspoonful of finely grated horse-radish, a pinch of cayenne, the whisked white of an egg, and enough fine breadcrumbs to bind the mixture. Make it up into small balls, egg and crumb them, and fry them in deep, very hot fat to a golden colour. Take up, drain, and dish up, and serve hot. Golden Buck. I lb. Cheddar cheese, i oz. butter, a wineglassful of ale, celery .salt, Nepavl pepper, 2 eggs, i tablespoonful cream, -V teaspoonful lemon-juice, } tea- spoonful Worcester sauce, a slice of buttered toasted bread. Mince the cheese and put it in a small stew-pan with the butter, ale, a saltspoonful of celery salt, and half a saltspoonful of Nepaul pepper. Beat up the eggs with the cream and stir into the stew-pan. Mix thoroughly and whisk the mixture over the fire till creamy and partly set, flavour with lemon-juice and M’orcester sauce. Pour this upon hot buttered toast, cut into four. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and send to table. Souffles Hongroise en Surprise. 6 medium-sized potatoes of even shape, i oz. butter, i small lobster, gill of tomato sauce, and gill of bechamel sauce well reduced, 1 pint savourv choux-paste, -1- oz. grated cheese. Wash the potatoes and cut each in half. Place them in a baking tin, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour, then scoop out the interior soft part of each potato. Rub half the potato pulp through a fine sieve, mix it with the butter and the choux- paste ; season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and a little grated cheese, and line each half potato with this. Cut the meat of the lobster into small dice, season, and mix with the tomato sauce. PutTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 884 about a tablespoonful of this into each prepared potato, then mix the remainder of paste with well reduced bechamel sauce, and fill the potatoes with it. Put the rest of the paste into a forcing-bag with a star tube, and force out a neat border on the edge of each potato. Place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve hot. Note.—Oysters or mussels can be prepared in the same way in place of lobster. Souffles au Fromage {Baked Cheese Souffles). 6 yolks of eggs, 2 whites of eggs, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. grated parmesan or gniyere cheese, i gill cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Put the yolks of eggs and the butter in a stew-pan and stir over the fire long enough to bind the former without curdling. Then add the cream mixed with the Hour. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir carefully with the above ; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg. Pour into buttered souffle-cases and bake for twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Petits Souffles a la Helene. I oz. flour, 11 gill milk, 1 gill cream, i oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 oz. cooked lean ham, 2 truffles, seasoning, nouifle cassolette cases. Dilute the flour with the milk and the cream, put this in a stew- pan with the butter, and stir over the fire until it boils, taking care not to get the mixture lumpy. Now add the egg-yolks and the cheese and work vigorously for a few minutes, and season to taste. Shred finely the ham and truffle, whisk up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix these carefully into the above preparation ; three- parts fill the cassolette cases with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, and serve hot.JPTEn-DlNNER SA VOURlES. 885 Souffles au Paprika. Make a choux-paste, incorporate two ounces grated cheese and a sufficiency of paprika pepper to taste, add also the wliites of two eggs whisked very stiff. Three-parts fill some buttered china or paper souffle cases with this mixture, and bake in a sharp oven for about hfteen minutes. Perles a la Gruyere {Swiss Cheese Pearls). Grate hnely 2 oz. of dry gruyere cheese, incorporate half of it with about 6 oz. of unsweetened choux-paste, season with a good pinch of krona pepper and hll a forcing-bag with a plain tube with the preparation. Have ready in a deep pan some very hot clarified butter and lard mixed in equal proportions. Force out very small pearl-shaped pieces into the hot fat, and fry to a golden colour. Take up, drain on a cloth or paper, and dish up in thin nouille paste cases, sprinkle over liberally with grated gruyere cheese, and serve hot. Fondue souffle au Fromage. 2 oz. cornflour, pint milk, 4 oz. gruyere and 2 oz. of parmesan cheese (grated), 2 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, i oz. butter, seasoning. Mix the cornflour with a little milk, then add into it the re- mainder of milk, boiling. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until it thickens, then add one or two yolks of eggs, the grated cheese, and seasoning (salt, pepper, nutmeg, or cayenne). Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully with the above when it has cooled a little. Put the mixture in a well-buttered silver-plated vegetable dish, and bake for about ten minutes in a brisk oven. Serve immediately. Fondue a la Brillat-Savarin. This consists of stirred or scrambled egg mixed with grated cheese, butter, a little white wine, and seasoning, and is served m little china casseroles.886 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Fondue a l ltalienne. This is composed of half-pint of cream thickened with I oz. of flour and cooked, then mixed with grated parmesan cheese, two to three egg-yolks, and a little butter ; then bake in a buttered gratin-dish. Cremes au Fromage {Cold Cheese Creams). Grate 2 oz. gruyere and 2 oz. parmesan cheese, and stir into half-pint whip- ped cream. Mix one teaspoonful of mustard with a little white wine and add to it one gill aspic, whisk till frothy, season with a little salt, pepper, and paprika. Amal- gamate with the cream mixture and hll into little souffle-cases, provided with paper bands. Place on the ice to set. Decorate the top of each with slices of pistachio and chervil. Remove the bands carefully. Dish up and serve. Timbales de Creme de Fromage {Cheese Cream Timbales). Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, and fill the cheese cream mixture into p r e V i o u sly aspic - coated and d e c 0- rated small t i m b ale moulds. Put these on the ice to set. Turn out on to a dish, gar- n i s h with chopped sa- voury aspic, and serve. Creme frites au Fromage {Fried Cheese Creams). This consists of a fairly consistent cheese-flavoured choux-paste, made with rice-flour and ordinary flour ; when cooked, spread on to a buttered baking-sheet and let cool; cut into square or diamond shapes, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Dish up, and serve.887 AFTER-DINNER SA WURIES. Camembert frit {Fried Camembert). Carefully pare off the crust from a camembert cheese, and divide the cheese into triangular sections. Season with paprika or cayenne, egg and crumb them with panurette or white breadcrumbs, and fry in deep clarified butter or beef-fat. Drain, dish up, and serve hot. Roulettes de Camembert [Cheese Roulettes). Mix four ounces of camembert cheese with three ounces of fine soft breadcrumbs into a smooth paste, add the yolks of two eggs and a pinch of cayenne and stir over the fire for a few minutes, long enough to heat the mixture. Turn on a buttered plate and cool. Make up into small roulette shapes of equal size. Dip each in beaten egg and breadcrumbs or thin frying batter, and fry in hot fat to a delicate brown. Take up, drain, dish up, and garnish with sprigs of fried parsley. Swiss Rarebit. Beat up in a cup a fresh egg, season it with salt and pepper, and add to it an ounce of fresh breadcrumbs and three tablespoonfuls of cream. Melt one ounce of butter in a saucepan, when hot put in three ounces of grated gruyere cheese, the breadcrumbs, eggs and cream, and stir till quite hot and of a creamdike consistency. Add a grate of nutmeg and put the mixture on small slices, square or oblong, of toasted and buttered bread. Dish up, and serve hot. Cheese Cones. Pound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with half an ounce of butter and two ounces of grated Cheddar cheese. Season with pepper and mustard, mix well, and spread the mixture thickly on to toasted triangle-shapes of plain milk scones ; these must be un- sweetened and made very small. Brown them in a hot oven, dish up, and send to table quickly. Welsh Rarebit. Cut into slices 2 oz. Cheddar cheese, put it in a stew-pan with 1 oz. butter, I tablespoonful of milk or beer. Stir over the fire till melted, and pour .over hot buttered toast, range on a hot dish ; sprinkle over with a little cayenne pepper and serve quickly. Croustades aux Champignons [Mushroom Croustadcs). Cassolettes or timbale-shaped crusts of bread or rice, filled with minced mushrooms, supreme sauce, cream, and chopped parsley, thus baked in sharp oven. Laitues a la Genoise [Cold). This consists of lettuce-leaves cut out round and spread with anchovy butter, placed on rounds of toast covered with mayonnaise and chopped hard-boiled egg ; garnished with capers. Bananes sur Croutes [Bananas on Toast). Peel six bananas (not too ripe), ent them in halves lengthways, sprinkle with a little salt and cayenne or paprika pepper, and fry them a pale brown colour in butter. Turn the bananas frequently whilst frying. Prepare thin slices of toasted bread, cut to shape ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 888 the bananas ; dip the bread in milk before toasting, as this will im])rove the flavour considerably. W'hen toasted, spread each slice with a thin layer of whipped cream ; sprinkle each with a pinch of grated nutmeg, and place the fried bananas upon them. Dish up, and serve hot. Tomates farcies au Gratin [Baked Tomatoes). Select some small firm, ripe, and even-sized tomatoes, remove the stems, cut off the top of each, and scoop out the centre without breaking them. Fry two or three chopped shallots in a little butter, add minced ham, mushrooms, and herbs, and moisten with some brown sauce ; incorporate a few breadcnimbs, and season with salt and pepper ; fill the tomatoes with this. Sprinkle some bread- crumbs and grated cheese over the top of each, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Buches de Tomates a la Rossini (Cold). Line the required number of leaf-shaped tin moulds with thiuly- rolled out nouille paste, line also a similar number of small bouche moulds. Bake both “ blind ” to a golden colour. Select small even-sized ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves and trim to fit the bouche moulds (pastry cases). Scoop out the centre part of each halved tomato, rub the tomato pulp through a fine sieve, to this add a light foie-gras puree (say gill of tomato pulp to lb. of foie-gras), incorporate a little semi-liquid aspic, flavour with a few drops of brandy or sherry, and season with aromatics, salt and pepper. Fix each ciq^ or bouche shape of pastry into the centre of the leaf-shaped pastry by means of a little batter, and bake to set. ^^’hen cold, place half a prepared tomato in each, fill up by means of a forcing-bag with the prepared puree. Decorate tastefully with fancifully-cut slices of truffle and red pimiento, previously dipped in semi-liquid aspic. Dish iqy garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley or endive, and serve.889 AFTER-DINNER SA TO DRIES. Biscuits Glaces a la Tomate {Iced Tomato Biscuits). Wipe and slice 6 ripe tomatoes, toss them in one ounce of butter in a saute-pan over a quick fire, add one tablespoonful of Italian tomato puree, and cook slowly till tender. Pour off the fat, and rub the tomatoes through a fine hair sieve or tammy cloth ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and paprika. When cold incorporate half a gill of whipped cream, and freeze in the usual manner. Work the mixture thoroughly with a wooden spatula, and pack into a brick- shaped ice mould. Wrap it in paper, and bury it in crushed ice and salt for about two hours. Roll out some paste, made of flour and milk slightly salted, ancient it into oblong strips, about 3^ by i inch in size. Place these on a baking-sheet, judek them with a fork, and bake in a slack oven. When baked ])ut them on a wire tray to cool. Unmould the tomato ice, cut it into slices the same as the biscuits, and place a slice of ice on each. Dish up, decorate the tops with small rosettes of whipped cream, garnish with parsley, and serve immediately. Cremes de Celeri glacees {Iced Celery Creams). 1 stick white celery, stock, 1- pint milk, -V bay-leaf, i gill bechamel sauce, 2 oz. grated parmesaii cheese, i gill asjiic, pint whipped cream, salt and pepper, chervil, and stars of pimientos for garnish. Wash and pare the celery, cut it into short lengths, and cook in stock and milk with the bay-leaf till quite tender. When done, drain and rub the celery through a fine sieve. Mix the puree thus obtained with the bechamel, heat it up, add the cheese, and season with salt and pepper. Incorporate the aspic and let cool, then work in the cream. W’hisk lightly on the ice till the mixture commences to set, then fill up some paper souffle cases. Decorate the top with sprigs of chervil and a star-shaped slice of red pimiento, run a thin layer of aspic over the surface of each, and place the cases in a charged ice- cave, in order to get them thoroughly iced without being actually frozen. Dish up, and serve when required for table. Betterave a I’Orientale {Beetroot Savoury). I small beetroot, i hard-boiled egg, 8 to 10 aiichovv fillets, i dessertspoonful of capers, i dcs.sertspoouful of gherkins, 2 chives, i dessertspoonful of anchovy paste, a little Orleans or chilli vinegar, brown bread for croutes. Cut the beetroot and brown bread into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick ; stamp out some small rounds with an inch cutter and put a layer of anchovy fillets on each. Prepare the following mixture : One dessertspoonful of capers, one of gherkins, two of chives, all chopped finely and mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy paste and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Spread this mixture over tlie rounds carefully, cut the eggs in thin slices, put one slice on each round, mix a little cayenne with salt and sprinkle over the surface. Dish up, and garnish with parsley. Champignons sous Cloche {Mushrooms under Glass Shade). Select the required number of cup mushrooms (even-sized), peel them, remove the stems, season with salt and pepper, fill each with, a little maitre d’hotel butter and double cream, and j)lace onTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 890 rounds of fried or toasted and buttered bread, similar in size to mush- rooms. Range them on a round gratin-dish, and cover with a glass ball or shade. Allow to cook for about thirty minutes at the mouth of the oven or near the lire, then serve. (Eufs garnis a la Volga [Cold Egg Savoury). Boil six small eggs till hard ; when cooled cut them in halves and carefully remove the yolks. Rub the latter through a sieve, and mix with a gill of remoulade sauce. Prepare a salpicon of a quarter jar of Russian caviare, three to four anchovy fillets cut into small dice, twelve prawn-tails cut into small dice. Add sufficient remou- lade sauce to bind this mixture, and fill the cavities of eggs with this. Place each on oval-shaped croutons of bread fried in butter. Sauce over each carefully with remoulade sauce, dish up, and garnish neatly with prawns and cress or parsley. Serve as hors-d’oeuvre or side dish. When a large quantity of eggs dressed in this style is needed, it is advisable to incorporate a sheet of dissolved gelatine into each gill of remoulade sauce. Woodcock Toast. h lb. of chicken or duck livers, 2 small gorgona anchovies, i teaspoonful castor sugar, i oz. butter. ;j teaspoonful spiced pepper (paprika or krona), a pinch of salt, 3 yolks of eggs, about i- a gill of cream. Wash and clean the livers, removing carefully any gall that may be left on. drain them in a cloth, and pound till quite fine in a mortar. Bone and skin the anchovies and pound them to a paste. Mix all thoroughly, and add the butter, sugar, and seasoning.' Put through a fine sieve and incorporate the egg-yolks and half the above-men- tioned quantity of cream. Stir this in a saucepan over the fire until it is sufficiently cooked. Have ready a small dish with a piece of buttered toast ; just before serving, add a little more cream and seasoning if needed, pour the mixture over the toast, and send to table hot. Yorkshire Rarebit. Prepare a Welsh rabbit mixture, spread it on portions of but- tered toast cut into scpiares, upon each piece of toast place a small rasher of fried bacon, with a poached egg laid on top. Biscuits au Parmesan {Cheese Biscuits). 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful of lemcn-juice, a pinch of cayenne and salt ; whipped cream for garnish. Sift the flour and cayenne on to a board, rub in the butter, and mix with the grated cheese. Make a well in the centre, put in the yolks, lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of water, and work to a smooth stiff paste. Roll out the pastry very thinly, stamp out some small rounds, place on a floured baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake in a cool oven for a few minutes. Before serving, place a small quantity of whipped cream mixed with parmesan and a pinch of cayenne, in the shape of a pyramid, in the centre of each biscuit.891 AFTER-DINNER SA I'OURlES. Amandes a la Diable ( Devilled Almonds). ! 11). almonds, i cz. butter, t gill sweet oil, salt, cayenne pc])per. Scald and peel the almonds, place them on a baking-tin, tind dry in a cool oven. Clarify the bntter, add the oil, when hot, jiiit in the almonds, and keep stirring gently nntil they are equally sliglitly browned. Put them in a frying-basket, drain and shake well, then ]rut them on a cloth, sprinkle liberally with hue salt and cayenne pepper, fold the cloth, and shake them a few seconds. Dish np and serve hot. Amandes salees {Salted Almonds). Blanch and peel some whole almonds, spread them on a paper- covered board or baking-sheet, and bake to a golden colour. Dis- solve a little gum arable in very little water, just enough to obtain a syrup consistency. Sprinkle the almonds while hot with this, shake well, and dust over with hue salt by means of a salt-dredger. Shake np the almonds from time to time until they are cool ; they will then be ready for serving. Salted almonds, the same as pista- chios, hlberts or bazel nuts, which can be done in the same way, are dished irp in fancy paper cases, and are handed round with the dessert. They should remain on the table during the whole of the dinner. Salted Peanuts, Procure some large shelled peanuts, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake slowly till the skin of the nuts begin to loosen. Take them out of the oven, and remove the skins as soon as the nuts are sufficiently cool. Cover them with a damp cloth, and allow to stand thus for about half an hour, sprinkle with a mixture of hue salt and krona pepper seasoning, and allow to dry in the oven Serve in small paper cases. Marrons a la Diable ( Devilled Chestnuts). Boil some peeled chestnuts till tender, remove the inner skin, drain and fry them in sweet oil, take nj), drain, and shake well with fine salt and cayenne or paprika pepper. Place each chestnut in a paper case. Dish up neatly, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES FOR OTHER SAVOURIES. Allumettes (Matches).—This name is applied to thinly-cut strips or ■'t’match shapes of baked puff or rough puff-paste, usually flavoured ’^with cheese, in addition to which some kind of savoury fish or , game puree is frequently introduced, by being spread thinly over the paste before baking. Beignets Malakoff (Cheese Fritters).—These are oblong slices of gruyere cheese, seasoned with paprika or cayenne, coated with frying batter, and fried in deep fat to a golden colour. — Souffles. - In the preparation of savoury beignets souffles, the choux- paste is flavoured with grated cheese, and dropped in very small portions into hot fat and fried to a golden colour.THE CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Beurrecks a la Turque {Cheese Cigars).—;\Iix a quantity of chopped gruyere cheese with well reduced bechamel sauce, and cook till melted, then let cool, shape into cigar shapes, roll in thin nouille paste, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Bouch6es Monseigneur.—Small puff-paste or brioche paste cases filled with a puree of soft roe of herring or cod, and mixed with chopped truffle. — a la Perigord.—Paste cases as directed above, but tilled with a puree of foie-gras, in place of fish, and chopped truffle. — Victoria.—Very small puff-paste cases filled with a hot salpicon of lobster and truffle and cardinal sauce, with a mushroom-head to serve as cover. Brochettes de Foie de Volaille.—Chicken livers rolled in slices of bacon dipped in butter, and fastened on little skewers, then crumbed and broiled ; served with bearnaise sauce. Canapds a I’Arlesienne.—Slices of buttered toast, decorated with strips of chopped tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins, truffles, and hard- boiled white of egg, arranged in lattice-work fashion. — a la Cocqueri.—A puree of chicken and ham and butter, spread on slices of toasted or fried bread, covered with grated cheese, browned under the salamander or in a sharp oven, dished up, and garnished with gherkins, capers, and beetroot. — Hollandaise.—Spread some oblong pieces of freshly-made toasted and buttered bread with a mixture of scrambled eggs, and finely chopped cooked smoked haddock ; dish up, and serve hot.. — Ivanhoe.—Spread some round fried bread croutons with a puree of smoked haddock (blended with cream and seasoned), surmount each with a small grilled cup mushroom. Dish up, and serve hot. — Julie.—Prepare some oval-shaped fried bread croutons, spread one side with a well-seasoned cream cheese, surmount each with a small skinned and boned sardine. Dish up, and serve. — a la Creme de Laitances.—Blanch some cod’s roe (fresh), pound in mortar and add whipped cream and seasoning, dress on little canapes of fried bread, Imger, oval or oblong shapes, sprinkle over with lobster coral and krona pepper, heat in sharp oven, and dish up. — Nantua.—Rounds of toasted bread spread with green herb butter, stoned olives stuffed with anchovy placed in the centre of each, with a prawn or crayfish-tail. — a la Norfolk.—Roll the required number of herring or bloater roes into thinly cut slices of bacon and grill them, place them on neatly cut slices of toasted and buttered bread, with a fillet of bloater on top, brush over with oiled butter, and heat in the oven for a few minutes, dish up, and serve quickly, a la Reforme.—Squares or oblongs of toasted bread spread with herb butter ; garnished the same as for “ Arlesienne,” but arranged in different design. Jambon a la Casino.—Slices of cooked ham spread with chutney and mustard, sandwiched together and thus grilled. — aux Tomates.—Grilled slices of raw ham, dressed with alternate slices of tomatoes tossed in butter ; served with piquante sauce.AI'TER-niXXF.R S.-n'OrRIRS. S<):, Huitres en Brochettes [Grilled Oysters on Skeu’ers).—Beard tlic required number of oysters, dip them in oiled and seasoned lintter, and cover with fresh Irreadcrnmhs, then fasten on skewers, and grill them over the lire. Dish them up with skewers stuck in fried bread croCitons, and garnish with lemon slices and fresh jiarsley. — en Cassolettes (Oyster Cassolettes).—Beard the oysters and range them in threes or fours, in small buttered china cassolette or ramakin cases, season with salt and pepper, and add two or three prawn tails ; moisten each with piquante or demi-glace sauce, and cook thus in the oven. Dish up, and serve hot. — a la Colbert.—These are marinaded oysters, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried in sweet oil, and served with Sauce Colbert. — a I’Horly,—^Marinaded oysters dipped in frying batter and fried in dee}) fat ; garnished with slices of lemon and parsley ; served with tomato sauce. — a ITtalienne.—Soused or marinaded oysters, drained and dipped in flour, and then in beaten seasoned eggs, fried in an omelette- pan with clarified butter ; serve with nut-lirown butter. — a la Normande [Stewed Oysters, Normandy Style).—This dish consists of a ragofit of oysters, crayfish tails, and sliced truffles, mi.xed with Sauce Normande. Heat up thoroughly and serve in small china casseroles. — a la Villeroi.—Poach the bearded oysters in fish stock ; drain them and coat each with reduced bechamel sauce, then egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in sweet oil. Drain, dish up, and garnish with lemon quarters and parsley. Petits Flans au Camembert.—Line a number of very small pastry (flan) rings with thinly rolled-out nouflle paste (p. 131.) and bake them (blind) to a light golden colour. Place them on a sieve to cool. Cut the rind from a fairly firm Camembert and cut up the cheese ; put it in a stew-pan with r oz. of butter, 3-4 tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir till all is well blended and of a cream-hke consistency. Next stir in three egg-yolks, and season with salt and cayenne pepper. Whisk the whites of two eggs lightly and stir in also. Fill the prepared cases with this, sprinkle over some grated Parmesan cheese, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes, then dish up and serve hot.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ■ 894 CHAPTER XXXVIL BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. Knowing how important it is to provide suitable dishes for breakfast and supper, but especially the former, and the great difficulty one often meets in hnding a change from the fried eggs and bacon, grilled haddock, and poached eggs, I have thought it desirable to devote a special chapter to this often-neglected branch of cookery. Many of the recipes given in a previous chapter devoted to Omelets and other varieties of egg-preparations form suitable Break- fast and Supper Dishes. Eggs in every form enable the cook to vary the daily breakfast and supper menus, for they provide a valuable aid in cookery generally. Supper dishes may be broadly divided into two classes, the hrst comprising something fairly substantial for those who dine early. The second class includes preparations of a more tempting cha- racter, peculiarly suited to those who dine in the evening and desire a light supper at a late hour. The following recipes provide for many dishes suitable for both occasions. Fish Cakes, lb. cold fish, freed from skin and bones, | lb. cooked potatoes, i oz. bnttcr or dripping, 2 tablespoonfnls milk, salt and pepper, i egg, breadcrnnibs, frying-fat. Chop the fish finely. Mash the potatoes, mix them with the fish, and season with salt and pepper. Melt the butter or dripping in a stew-pan, add the fish, etc., to it, mix all well together with the milk, and heat up. Shape the mixture into small flat cakes of even size. Beat up the egg on a plate, then egg and breadcrumb the cakes and again shape. Ery them a golden colour in deep hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Fish Pie. 1 lb. cold boiled fish, such as cod, haddock, whiting or turbot, i oz. butter, cupful breadcrumbs (previously soaked in milk), i teaspoonful anchovy essence or paste, i egg, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, a little cream or milk. Free the fish from skin and bones, and shred or chop it finely. Put it into a small stew-pan with the butter, when hot, add the bread- crumbs, anchovy essence or paste, and the egg (beaten). Mix tho- roughly, and add the seasoning. Cook whilst stirring for five minutes, then add the cream. Put it into a buttered pie-dish, sprinkle over a few fried breadcrumbs, bake in the oven till the surface is nicely browned, and serve. Baked Cod a la Menagere. Procure three thin slices of cod, wipe the fish with a damp cloth, and lay the slices on a greased baking-tin. Mix one gill of895 BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. breadcrumbs with a teaspoonful of savoury herbs and parsley, and a beaten egg. Season with pepper and salt. Spread the mixture over the slices of fish and place on toj) of each a rasher of lean bacon. Cook in a moderately heated oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes, and serve with anchovy sauce poured round the base of the dish. Kedgeree au Paprika. 4 oz. rice, 24 picked prawns or an equal quantity of shrimps, .some rich stock, i-l- oz. butter, i hard-boiled egg, salt, paprika pepper, J oz. grated cheese. Pick, wash, and blanch the rice, drain well, put it in a stew-]tan with the butter, stir over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with stock and cook till tender, adding more stock as recpiired by degrees, and, as the rice swells while cooking, stir frequently to prevent it from sticking. Add sufficient salt to taste, a pinch of grated nut- meg, and enough paprika pepper to give the rice a soft pinkish tint. Chop finely the prawns or shrimps, keeping aside a few for garnish, chop the white of the hard-boiled egg, add both, together with the cheese, to the rice, and stir gently until thoroughly hot. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg (rubbed through a coarse sieve or chopped finely), some prawns or shrimps, and a few sprigs of freshly-picked watercress. Serve hot. Kedgeree of Haddock. 1 small smoked haddock, 4 oz, rice, 2 eggs (hard-boiled), 2 oz. butter, krona pepper, salt, and nutmeg. W'ash and boil the rice, drain and dry. Remot^e the bones and skin from the fish, break into pieces, break the shells of the eggs, and cut the whites into small square pieces. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, put in the rice, add the fish, white of egg, krona pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and salt. Mix them well together, and serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle the yolks of eggs over it. Fish Fritters. Prepare a batter with 4 oz. of sifted flour, 2 yolks and i whole egg, 2 tablespoonfnls of olive oil, and a gill of tepid water, and beat up well. The batter should be like thick cream. Stir in about J lb. of cold white fish, such as whiting, fresh haddock, cod or plaice, free from skin and bones. Drop the mixture from a tablespoon into very hot fat, and fry to a golden colour, then drain, dish up, garnisli with half slices of lemon and parsley, and serve hot. Smoked Fish Fritters. Fillet some smoked fish, such as bloater, haddock, saJmon or kippered herring, cut them into small pieces, season with white pepper mixed with a little curry powder. Dip each piece into some prepared frying batter, fry in hot fat until crisp and of nice colour, drain well on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Bloater Fritters {Beignets de Hareng fume). 2 bloatere, frying batter, oz. grated cheese, frj’ing-fat. Split the bloaters and take out the bones, remove the skins andTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 896 cut off the heads. Divide each fillet into three or four neat pieces. Mix the frying batter with an ounce of finely grated cheese, dip each piece of bloater into the batter, so as to completely cover it, drop into very hot fat, fry a golden colour, take up, drain well, and dish up. Sprinkle over some grated cheese, and serve very hot. Rolled Herring Fillets {Paupiettes dc Harengs). 4 to 5 salt herrings (Dutch herrings), 2 hard-lroiled eggs, i lemon, 3 filleted anchovies, 11- oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne; parsley, beetroot, and gherkin for garnish. Steep the herrings in cold water for a few hours. Fillet them, removing the white skin and all bones, cut each lengthways in two and pare neatly. Put the trimmings of the fillets into a mortar together with the anchovies and pound till smooth, add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and tlie butter, season to taste (no salt), and mix thoroughly. Put this through a line sieve, spread the inside of the herring fillets with a layer of this puree, and roll up neatly. Dip the ends into finely chopped hard-boiled white of eggs. Dish up, sprinkle over some lemon-juice, garnish with thinly-cut slices of lemon, gherkin, beetroot, and parsley ; serve cold. Curried Prawns. Skin about fifty prawns, fry a small minced onion in two ounces of butter, stir in t an ounce of flour, and one dessertspoonful of curry powder, and fry a little, then moisten with half a pint of milk, and let it boil for ten minutes, season to taste, and strain. Add the prawns, and the juice of half a lemon, and boil gently for another ten minutes. Dish up in the centre of a border of boiled rice. Fish Pudding with Rice. Take h lb. of any cold fish, and mix with it 4 oz. of boiled rice, one hard-boiled egg, chopped, and season with salt and pepper. Moisten with a little white sauce and milk, mixed with a well- beaten egg. Put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish or pudding mould, and bake or steam lor about thirty-five minutes. Unmould, and serve with anchovy sauce. Fish Salad im Aspic. Mask the inside of a charlotte mould with well-flavoured aspic jelly, decorate it with small sprigs of fennel, then line with slices of tunny fish (this can be obtained in glass from most grocers). Fill the mould with a salad composed of cold fish (shredded) and cold boiled vegetables, such as carrot, cucumber, peas, and beans (the former should be cut into small shapes). Season with a mayonnaise sauce, and mix with sufficient aspic to set the salad. Place the mould, when filled, on the ice till set, then turn out on a dish and serve. Scalloped Oysters. Thoroughly wash and drain some small scallop shells, and butter them when dry. Allow three-four oysters for each shell, remove the beards, and place them in the shells with alternate layers of bechamel sauce or other white sauce and cream, season with salt and pepper,897 BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. spread a tablespoonful of sauce over the top of each, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and place a few tiny bits of butter here aud there on the surface. Bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Dish up, garnish to taste, and serve hot. Curried Sardines. Open a tin of boneless sardines, pour from it all the oil into a frying-pan, cut up a shallot finely, and fry to a pale yellow, pour off the oil and add a dessertspoonful of “ Empress ” curry powder and a teaspoonful of Hour, and fry a little. Moisten with one gill of stock or water, and boil for a few minutes. Skin the sardines and place them on a buttered gratin dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and oiled butter, place them in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve with a small dish of plain boiled rice. Baked Whiting. Skin and fillet three whiting, butter a baking-dish, spread over it two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, place in the whiting fillets, sprinkle some minced mushrooms on top, a little oiled butter, some chopped parsley, and a few breadcrumbs. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes and serve hot. Savoury Macaroni with Ham. P lb. macaroni or spaghetti, 4 to 6 oz. lean cooked ham, i oz. batter, i oz. grated parmesan or gniyere cheese, 1 gill cream, salt anti pepper, fried breadcrumbs. Break the macaroni into short pieces, drop them into fast boiling, slightly salted water, cook till tender, drain, and cool. Chop the ham rather finely. Put the butter in a stew-pan, add the macaroni, when hot, stir over the fire for a few minutes, tlien add the grated cheese, a little stock (if handy), and the cream. Spread a layer of this on a well-buttered gratin or ordinary fireproof dish, sprinkle over chopped ham, and proceed thus until the macaroni and ham are used up. Season with pepper. Cover the surface with a few fried breadcrumbs, and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven and serve hot. Bacon and Macaroni. 4 oz. Italian macaroni, 8 oz. streaky bacon, 1- pint stock, i oz. butter. Break the macaroni into small pieces, and put into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, cook for five minutes, then drain and cool. Boil up the stock, skim, and add the macaroni, cook till quite tender, but not pulpy. Slice the bacon rather thinly, cut it into small dice, and fry a little in a saute-pan. Now add the cooked macaroni and the butter, season with pepper, a little salt, and a grate of nutmeg, stir carefully over the fire and cook lor another ten minutes. Let it get a nice brown, then turn on to a hot dish and serve. Baked Bacon and Eggs {Scotch Breakfast Dish). 6 oz. of Hour, 2 oz. of butter, I a teaspoonful of baking-powder, d lb, of bacon, 1- gill cream, ^ eggs, pepper and a pinch of salt. Put the Hour and baking-powder into a basin, rub in the butter, 3 LTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 898 mix with abotit one gill of cold water, knead lightly, and roll out thinly. Line a flat dish with it, and lay the bacon slices in the centre of the dish, and season with pepper. Break the eggs care- fully in the basin, and add the cream, season to taste, beat slightly, pour over the bacon, cover with the remainder of the paste, orna- ment the top, and brush over with egg. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour, and serve hot or cold. Bacon Toast. Cut some streaky bacon into rather thin slices, put them in a saute-pan with just enough water to cover, and boil for a few seconds. Then drain the slices of bacon carefully, and place them in a frying-pan, and fry until crisp over a quick fii'e to a delicate brown. Have ready some oblong slices of toasted brown bread, butter them well, and trim the slices to the size of the bacon. Place a slice of bacon on a slice of toast, and dish up ; surmount each with a small round slice of fried tomato (these can be fried in the bacon fat), and serve hot. Ham and Rice Croquettes. I lb. cooked ham, 1- lb. cooked rice, i oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, i shallot, I gill cream, gill veloutee sauce, i whole egg, breadcrumbs, clarified fat or lard, parsley, pepper, and a pinch of powdered sage. /'Chop flnely the ham and rice separately. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallot, finely chopped, and fry a little, add the ham and rice, season with pepper and powdered sage, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, then add the sauce and cream. When on the point of boiling, stir in the egg-yolks, stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then remove from the fire and spread on a dish to cool. Shape into even-sized balls, corks or cutlets, dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, fry in hot fat or lard, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. Mashed potatoes may be substituted for the rice, but less ham and more potatoes should be used than the above quantities. Jombalayah {an American Breakfast Dish). 4 oz. Patna rice, 4 oz. cooked ham, .salt, cayenne pepper, : lettuce. Boil the rice in slightly salted water (the same as for curry or kedgeree), so that each grain is intact when the rice is tender. Drain and cool the rice when done. Mince the ham as finely as possible, and mix both ham and rice carefully in a basin, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, wash the lettuce, place a layer of leaves on a cold dish, dress rice and ham upon this, and garnish neatly with the heart of the lettuce. Serve cold. Grilled Ham with Cucumber Puree. Prepare a tasty jniree of cucumbers—which must first be peeled, sauted in butter, and cooked in a small quantity of rich stock. Arrange the puree of cucumber on a hot dish, and dress some nicely grilled slices of ham on top, garnish the dish with a few very small stuffed and braised lettuces, sauce round with demi-glace sauce, and serve.BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. 899 Ham a la Minute. Cut some raw ham into slices, fry them nicely with butter in a saute-pan over a quick lire, pour off the fat, and add a small glass of marsala or slrerry wine, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of finely chopped mushrooms. Let this cook quickly for a few minutes, add a tablespoonful or more of brown sauce and a few drops of liquid meat glaze. Re-heat, dish up, garnish with small mushroom heads, and serve. Frosted Ham {Jambon a la Neige). 5 oz. of lean ham, 4 eggs, | gill milk or cream, teaspoonful powdered sweet herbs, I- oz. butter, a pinch of aromatic spice, and a pinch of Colman’s mustard. Chop the ham very tine, mix it with the savoury herbs, spice, and mustard, beat up two whole eggs and two }a:)lks of eggs. When well beaten, add the milk or cream and all but a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, melt the butter, grease a deep round plated dish with same, and put the remainder with the mixture. Sjtrinkle the buttered part of the dish with a few brown breadcrumbs, put the mixture in the disli, and place in a moderate oven for ten minutes (leave long enough to set). Beat up the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, pile it on the dish, cover it over, and bake for another five minutes. Brain Fritters (Beignds de Cervelles). Thoroughly wash one or more calf’s or pig’s brains, removing the blood ancl skin. Put them in a stew-pan with sufficient water to cover, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, a few peppercorns, half an onion, and a bouquet-garni. Boil for five minutes, then take out the brains, place in cold water, and drain. Cut them iuto neat pieces, season with jieifper, salt, one tablespoonful of oil, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Sprinkle over a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready some frying batter, dip each piece into this, and drop into hot fat ; fry a golden colour, drain, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with pifluante sauce. Beef Fritters [Beignets deBceuf). 10 oz. of cold beef, 3 oz. of flour, gill of milk, 2 oz. of butter, i egg, pepper and salt, frying-fat, parsley. Prepare a nice light batter as follows : sift the flour into a basin, stir in the milk, the yolk of egg, and the butter (previously warmed). Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, add a pinch of salt and mix with the batter, which must be well worked before the beaten white is added. Chop the beef very fine, season it a little with pepper and salt, and mix with the batter. Have the fat for frying very hot, drop in the mixture in small quantities with a tablespoon, and fry a nice light brown. Drain the fritters on a. cloth, dish them up in a pile and garnish with parsley which has been picked, washed, drained, and fried, and serve quickly, as the fritters become heavy if left standing.900 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Sweetbread Fritters {Beigncts de Rls dc Vcau). Cut the remains of cooked sweetbread into neat slices, season with salt, pepper, and leinon-jnice, pour over some sweet oil, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Drain the slices and dip each into frying batter. Fry a golden brown in hot fat. Drain, dish np, and sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese and a dust of cayenne or krona pepper. Veal Fritters (Beigncts de Vcau). Proceed the same as for beef fritters (see page 899), using cooked lean veal in place of beef. Green Corn Fritters. I till green corn, 2 eggs, 3 tablcspoonfnls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning, oil or frying fat. Drain the green corn, put the flour into a basin, and mix well together, beat the eggs, add them and the green corn to the flour, and mix well, then add the cream, season with salt and pepper, and shape into fritters. Fry in boiling oil or deep frying fat to a light brown colour. Dish up and serve hot. Curry Croquettes. 4 oz. of rice, 1 lb. of cold meat, i teaspoonful of curry powder, i teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 2 eggs, breadcrumbs, frying-fat, -J- oz. of flour, i gill of stock, I oz. of butter, i teaspoonful of choppetl onion. The remains of any cold meat will do for this dish. Free the meat from skin, gristle, and excess of fat, and chop it very fine. Wash, blanch, and boil the rice, drain, and dry it in front of the Are. Put the butter and onion into the saucepan, fry it, but do not let it get brown, then stir in the curry powder and flour. When this is cooked, but not browned, add the meat and lemon-juice, let this cook a little longer over the fire. Mix in the boiled rice. Beat up one egg and add it to the mixture, stir just long enough to bind the egg, add a pinch of salt if required, and spread the mixture on a dish. When cold, shape into balls of even size. Beat np the other egg for the purpose of egging the halls, then dip them in breadcrumbs and fry in hot fat to a nice light brown colour. Drain on to a paper or cloth, dish up in a })ile, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Pheasant Croquettes. i pouiul of cold pheasant, 4 oz. of cooked chopped ham or tongue, i des- sertspoonful chopped parsley, oz. butter, 6 preserved chopped mushrooms (if liked), i chopped shallot, salt and pepper, i oz. of fat for frying, yolks of 2 eggs, breadcrumbs. Fry the shallot in the butter to a pale brown, mix this with the sauce, heat up and add the chopped pheasant (free from skin or bones), the ham, mushrooms, and parsley. Add the yolks of eggs and heat up the mixture. Spread it on a plate or dish to cool. Divide into even portions, and shape into corks or cutlets. Beat up the whole egg, brush the croquettes over with it, cover with crumbs, shaj^e again and fry in plenty of hot fat. Take them upBREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. yui and drain on paper or cloth. Dish np the croquettes on a hot disli with a lace paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Any other game or poultry can be used up in this way, and tlie addition of either chopped truffles or truffle-peelings is an improvement. Chicken Rissoles [Rissoles ii la Rcinc). Prepare a salpicon of hnely chopped cooked chicken, ham or tongue, mushrooms and truffles, moistened with white sauce and seasoned to taste, spread on a plate and let cool. Roll out some puff or rough puff-paste, stamp out some rounds, place a teaspoonful of the mixture on each, wet the edge and fold over, so as to give them the shapes of half-moons. Press down the edges of the paste well. Egg and crumb them and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Venison Rissoles [Rissoles de Chevretiil). Roll out some puff-paste or short crust paste, stamp out circles of desired size, put a teaspoonful of prepared venison salpicon in the centre, brush the edges with beaten egg or water, fold over to form a half-circle, press the edges together, and trim with a sharp cutter. Brush over with egg, dip them in breadcrumbs or crushed vermicelli, and fry in hot fat to a light brown colour. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Note.—Any kind of cold poultry or meat may be made up as rissoles. Scrambled Brains, W'ash and cleanse either a pair of calf, pig or sheep's brains. Par-boil them in salted water, containing the juice of half a lemon, a slice of onion, a bay-leaf, and a few peppercorns. Take up, drain, and chop into small pieces. Beat up four or six eggs in a stew-j)an, add about an ounce of fresh butter, a dash of cliilli vinegar, and seasoning. Mix in the chopped brains, and stir over a quick hre till the mixture commences to set. Serve on buttered toast. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Indienne [Curried Kidneys). Fry in a stew-pan a hnely minced shallot in ^ oz. of butter to a g(dden brown, then add a gill of brown sauce, stir over the hre till it boils, now add a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, the same cpiantity of chilli vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of chopped chutney, reduce a little and strain. Skin six sheep’s kidneys, split them in the usual way, remove the cores, dip them into warm butter, and dredge them with hour seasoned with a little curry ])owder. Melt 2 oz. of butter in an omelet-pan, fry the kidneys cpii('kly, remove them directly they are done and drain them. Dish up on rounds of hot buttered toast, and lill the centre of the kidneys with the prepared sauce, put a little hnely chopped gherkin on the top of each. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 902 Kedgeree of Cold Meat. 6 oz. of cold meat (any kind will do), 4 oz. rice, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i oz, butter, 2 slices finely chopped onion, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Remove the skin, gristle, and superlluous fat from the meat, and chop it not too finely. Boil the rice in the usual manner, so that when tender each grain will separate and is intact. Drain the rice when done. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the onion, and fry a golden colour, then add the meat, ancl fry for a few minutes, stir in the rice, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Shell the eggs, chop the whites, and mix with the above. Heat up the whole thoroughly, and dish up in a pyramidal form. Rub the yolks of eggs through a wire sieve, and sprinkle over the kedgeree. Sprinkle over likewise some hnely-chopped parsley, and arrange the dish as neatly as possible. Place it in the oyen for a few minutes, and send to table. Note.—Cold fish, poultry or game can be prepared in exactly the same manner. Macaroni and Minced Beef. Mince finely by chopping or passing through a mincing machine if lb. of cold beef. Cook 4 oz. of macaroni in boiling water until tender, drain, and let cool. Heat up -f pint of tomato sauce in a large stew-pan, put in the minced beef and the macaroni. Season carefully with salt and pepper. When thoroughly heated, turn on to a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. Meat or Fish Patties. Line a number of patty-pans with puff-paste rolled out fairly thin, wet the edges, and fill with meat salpicon or finely chopped and seasoned raw meat (beef, mutton or pork), or chopped ancl seasoned white fish (whiting, cod or haddock). When raw meat is used add a dessertspoonful of stock or water, whilst for fish add the same quantity of white sauce for each patty. Roll out some more paste and stamp out the covers, place them over the filled patties, press the edges, trim and fiake the border. Brush over with egg and milk, and bake in a fairly hot oven. Meat patties recpnre about thirty-five to forty minutes, salpicon and fish patties from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Cold Meat Gateau. 1 lb. cold meat (minced), i thick slice stale bread, a little milk, i raw egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley. Cut the bread into small pieces and soak it in the milk, beat up well, and add to the minced meat, parsley, and seasoning, and bind with the egg. Sprinkle a greased pie-dish with breadcrumbs, and line it with slices of hard-boiled egg. Put in the meat mixture, and bake about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Turn out on to a hot dish, and pour some hot brown sauce round it. Toad-in-the-Hole. 6 oz. flour, 2 eggs, i lb. cooked lean meat or i lb. sausages (blanched and skinned), i pint milk, seasoning. Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, and break inBREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES. 9^3 the eggs and some milk, mixing all smoothly to a batter, adding gradu- ally the remainder of milk. Cut the meat very small or the sausages into pieces, season, and lay in either a greased tin or pie-dish. Pour over the batter, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Shepherd’s Pie. Mince up any kind of cold meat, season with salt and pepper, add a little butter, also two tablespoonfuls of gravy. Put it in a pie-dish, cover with a thick layer of mashed potatoes mixed with half a gill of milk. Bake in a hot oven to brown for about half an hour. Savoury Cold Meat Toast. Chop hnely the remains of cold beef, mutton or veal, to each half-pound add an ounce of chopped ham or tongue, put this into a stew-pan with sufficient white sauce to moisten, season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne, and allow it to get thoroughly hot. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, and add. Stir until it begins to set, but do not let it boil. Have ready one or two slices of buttered toast, well trimmed of crust, put the mince on it in a heap, smooth it over with a knife. Beat up the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and spread the top of each, sprinkle over with a few fried breadcrumbs and a pinch of cayenne pepper or paprika. Place it in a very hot oven for five minutes to colour the top, and serve quickly. Pepper Pot (H West Indian Dish). Cut half a loin of pork, with the rind left on, into chops, trim off part of the chine bones and fry the chops to a nice brown in saute- pan with a little butter. Cut into neat joints a partially roasted fowl, ])ut same with the pork chops into an earthenware pot, with a large onion, peeled and sliced, six small peeled shallots, and a few dried chillies. To make the sauce, put two tablespoonfuls of moist cane sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper into a saucepan, mix well with a little stock or water. Add a table- spoonful soy or cassareep, and three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, boil up, and strain over the meat in the pot so as to well cover its contents. Cover the pan and cook gently for about one and a half hours. Remove the scum, and set away till next day. Heat it again on the following day and boil gently for another half an hour, then serve. Braised Lambs’ Tongues. Wipe three-four pairs of lambs’ tongues and cook them slowly in salted water flavoured with vegetables until nearly tender. Drain them, trim off the roots and remove the skins. Arrange the tongues, cut in halves, in an earthenware pan, moisten with equal parts of a good brown sauce and a tomato sauce, season to taste, add a few sliced mushrooms or sliced tomatoes, cover closely, and braise in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Send to table in the same pan, placed on a dish with folded napkin.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 904 Curried Mince (Cold Meat). Chop finely one pound of cooked cold meat free from gristle and fat. Fry a minced onion in two ounces of butter or dripping to a light brown. Stir in half an ounce of flour and a dessertspoonful of curry powder, then moisten with half-pint of stock. Season with salt and pepper, and add the meat. Cook gently for about thirty minutes. Have ready some boiled, well-drained rice, range this as a border on a hot dish, put the mince in the centre, and serve. Frizzled Beef on Toast. Cut some hung beef (Hamburg or dried beef) into very thin slices of uniform size ; blanch and drain. Melt enough butter in a frying or saute-pan, and in it toss the slices over a quick fire. Serve on toasted and buttered bread. Scotch Collops [Luncheon or Supper Dish). I lb. lean beef (steak), 1} oz. butter, -J- small onion (finely minced), i table- spoonful flour, salt and pepper, gill stock. Mince or shred finely the meat, free from fat or skin. Melt the butter, fry the onion a nice colour, stir in the flour and cook a little longer, then add the minced meat, and lastly the stock. Season lightly with pepper and salt, simmer gently for about forty minutes. Dish up, surround the dish with toasted bread sippets or bread croutons, and serve hot. Mirliton or Cold Meat Pie (Pate a la Mirliton). I lb. cold meat free from bone and gristle, -J lb. mashed potatoes, medium- sized onion, -J- gill stock, i oz. butter or dripping, 1 tablespoonful currants, I egg, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Mince the meat rather finely, peel and mince finely the onion, fry it in the butter or dripping, put in the meat, season to taste with salt, pepper it, fry for a few minutes, then add about half the stock, and the currante previously cleaned. Beat up the egg, and mix three parts of it with the mashed potatoes, season, and line a greased pie-dish with it, reserving some of the puree to cover the pie. Fill up with the prepared mince, add the remainder of the stock, and cover with about an inch layer of potato puree. Smooth over the surface neatly. Brush over with egg kept for this purpose, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Roman Pie. Line a large pie-dish, previously buttered, with boiled macaroni, have ready some cooked cold meat, such as veal, rabbit, chicken, tongue, ham or cold game, cut it up rather small, and place in layers in the pie-dish, pour a little white or brown sauce over each layer, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. When the dish is fnll, sauce over with a good layer of rich bechamel. Sprinkle over some grated parmesan cheese, and cover neatly with boiled macaroni. Pour a little melted butter over the macaroni, and strew over some more grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour, see that the surface is nicely browned, and serve at once.BREAKFAST AND SUFFER DISHES. 905 Cornish Cutlets {Lwichcoii or Supper Dish). About ;; lb. of cold meal, i lb. of potatoes, i tablcspooiiful of ketchup. I teaspooiiful of chopped parsley, i teaspoonful breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, chopped lemon-rind, fat for frying, salt and pe])j)er. Cut the meat into slices a quarter-inch thick, trim them into heart-shapes, put the slices on a dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and parsley, and pour over the ketchu}). \\'ash, peel, and boil the potatoes, dry them and rub through a sieve, beat up one egg and mix with the mash, season with pepper, salt, and add the lemon-juice or a little grated nutmeg. Cover well each slice of meat with mashed potatoes, shape and smooth with a knife. Beat up the other egg, dip each cutlet in the egg, and crumb well, when set, egg and crumb again. Fry the cutlets in hot fat a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, and garnish with crisp ])arslcy. Devilled Chicken {Poulct ii la Diablc). Take the remains of a cold fowl, divide it into neat joints, trim off the bones and remove the skin. Mix together a teaspoonful of mustard with a little anchovy essence, a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, a tablespoonful of salad oil, and a little cayenne pepper. When quite smooth cover the pieces of chicken with this mixture. Grill them for about ten minutes over a moderate lire, turning them frequently till they are thoroughly hot and brown. Dish up, and serve at once. Note.—Cold turkey or goose may be treated in the same way. Devilled Game. Any kind of cooked game can be used for this dish. Cut it into neat slices, free from skin and bone. Season the slices with cayenne, salt, and paprika, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Dip them into oiled butter and cover with brown breadcrumbs. Place the slices neatly on a well-buttered baking-tin, and put them in a sharp oven for a few minutes to get browned. Care must be taken that the meat does not get dried up. Dress them in a circle on a dish with a lace-paper, and hll the centre with crisp, fresh watercress, previously seasoned with salt and lemon-juice. Serve very hot. Cold poultry can be served in the same way. Chicken Spatchcock {Poulct Crapaudinc). I young chicken, chopped parsley and i shallot, 2 oz. butter, breadcrumbs salt and pepper. Split the chicken through the backbone, flatten it out, and wipe the inside with a damp cloth. Season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley and shallots. Insert two skewers. Brush it with oiled butter, and grill till half cooked. Then sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, finish cooking it over or in front of a brisk fire. It will take about twenty minutes. Remove the skewers. Dish up, and serve with some piquante sauce. Pigeons and game birds may be cooked this way.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 9o6 Breakfast Brawn. '2 pickled pig’s head, 4 oz. cooked bacon, i hard-boiled egg, i carrot, I onion, 2 cloves, a small bouquet-garni (No. 2), salt and peppercorns. Wash the head in several waters, remove the brain, veins, and splinters of bone. Cook the head in a stew-pan containing enough water to well cover it, add a little salt, the scraped carrot and onion, peeled and stuck with cloves, the bouquet-garni and peppercorns. Cook for about two hours. Skim from time to time. Remove the meat from the bones, and reduce the liquor with the bones. Cut the meat into small squares or dice. Cut the bacon likewise. Slice the egg and garnish with it the bottom of a small charlotte or cake tin. Fill the mould with the pieces of pig’s head and bacon. Press down the meat lightly. Take about a pint of the reduced liquor and pour it into the mould. Place on the ice or in a cool larder for twelve hours. Unmould by dipping the mould into warm water for a few seconds. Dish up. Garnish with fresh parsley or water- cress, and serve. Potato Coquilles with Eggs. 3 large kidney potatoes, 6 small fresh eggs, | lb. spinach puree, gill of cream, pepper and salt, grated cheese, breadcrumbs. Wash and dry the potatoes, bake them in their skin in a hot oven, when done, cut each in half lengthways. Scoop out the mealy portion and rub it through a sieve. Mix with the cream and season with jteppcr and salt. Prepare the spinach and llavonr nicely. Line the inside of each half of potato with spinach. Poach the eggs separately, trim, and place one in each potato shell, lill up with the prepared potato puree, smooth over with a knife. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, put a tiny piece of butter here and there on top of each. Finish in a very brisk oven or under the salamander to brown the surface. Dish up, garnish witli parsley, and serve hot. Scotch Eggs. 4 hard-boiled eggs, i lb. sausage meat, i gill tomato sauce, i raw egg, frying-fat, breadcrumbs, and parsley. Remove the shells from the eggs, dip them in flour, cover completely with a layer of sausage meat, brush all over with beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry them a nice light brown colour in hot fat. Take up as soon as done, drain them on a cloth or paper, cut in halves crossways, and place them, cut side up, on a dish (a little mashed potato or mashed peas under each egg will make them stand more firmly). Garnish with fried parsley, pour the tomato sauce (hot) round the eggs, and serve. Egg and Tomato Ramakins. 6 eggs, 3 tomatoes, 6 slices of bacon, 4 pieces of buttered toast, i dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, i tablespoonful finely chopped ham, i oz. of butter. Well Imtter six small china ramakin cases, sprinkle bottom of each with chopped ham and parsley. Break an egg into each ramakin case. Place them in a saute-pan half filled with boilingBREAKFAST AKD SUPPER DISHES. 907 water, cover with buttered paper and steam in the oven lor about live minutes, or till the eggs are set. Cut the tomatoes in halves, season, and put them in a saute-pan in a hot oven, jnit a very little piece of butter on each, and cook till they are tender. Toast the bread and cut into rounds, fry the bacon, and lay half of a tomato on each round of toast. Unmould the egg ramakins on to the tomato. Arrange these neatly on a hot dish with the fried bacon around the tomatoes, and serve. Mayonnaise of Eggs. 4 hard-boiled eggs, 4 ripe but linn tomatoes, salt and pepper, i pint stilt mayonnaise sance, a truffle, pickled beetroot or pimientos (Spanish pepper ])lant), aspic for garnish. Shell the eggs and cut them in halves lengthways. Peel and cut the tomatoes in halves, put them on a baking-tin and bake them in the oven till they are just tender, then let them get cold. Arrange them in a row on a dish, season with salt and pepper. Place half an egg, cut side downwards, on each tomato. Have the mayonnaise sauce well flavoured with tarragon vinegar, and coat the eggs and tomatoes smoothly with it. Decorate the dish with truffle, beetroot or pimientos, cut in small fancy slices, and garnish the base of the dish with chopped aspic. Tomato and Sausage Croutes. 8 large even-sized tomatoes (ripe, but (juite lirm), 1 lb. sausages, bread- crumbs, chopped parsley, a little stock, i egg-yolk, 8 fried bread croutes. W’ipe the tomatoes, remove the stems, cut off the top portion of each and scoop out some of the pulp portion, without breaking the skin. Skin the sausages, put them in a basin with the tomato pnlp, a handful of breadcrumbs, and a little chopped parsley, mix with the egg-yolk and a little stock. Fill the tomatoes with this, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up on croutes of fried bread, garnish with parsle}y and serve. Rice au Gratin. WAsh, blanch, and boil in veal stock six ounces of rice. Drain and moisten the rice with bechamel sance, add a handful of grated cheese, season with a tiny pinch of cayenne and krona pepper. Dress on a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, grated cheese and oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven to brown the top. Serve in the same dish. Savoury Lentils. Soak half-pint of lentils for two hours in tepid water, put them into a stew-pan with id pints stock or water, an ounce of butter, and a little salt, and boil them for about two hours. Drain the lentils, return them to the stew-pan with a small peeled and clujpped onion, previously fried iiUan ounce of butter ; cook gentl}^ and moisten with a little bechamel sauce and two tablespoonfnls of cream.9o8 THE NEW CENTUkY COOKERY BOOK. Season with salt and pepper, re-heat, and stir in the yolks of two eggs to bind the mixUire. Dish np, garnish with thinly cut slices of fried bacon, and serve. Baked Cheese Pie. Place a layer of thinly cut slices of buttered bread in a pie-dish, sprinkle over thickly with any grated cheese, and a seasoning of made mustard, salt, and cayenne. Repeat till the dish is full, and pour over a custard made with two eggs beaten up in a pint of milk. Bake in a very slow oven until cpiite set. Serve with an accompani- ment of grated cheese on a separate small dish. Hot Breakfast Cakes. Take a pound of Coombs’ “ Eureka,” or other good self-raising flour, add to it a pinch of salt, and rub in by degrees 4 oz. of butter, work this till it resembles oatmeal, then moisten with about f pint of milk to a smooth dough, which must not be too stiff. Roll out about ^ inch thick, and stamp out with a two-inch paste cutter into rounds. Place on a buttered baking-sheet and bake in a moderately heated oven. Split the cakes whilst hot, butter them lightly, and serve at once. PLANKING FOOD. Planking food is a form of cooking of American origin, effected by means of baking or cooking food on a plank in the oven or in front of a hre. Planks are made for the purpose about two inches thick and of various sizes, and may be oak, ash, cedar or cherry- wood. Oak planks ai'e considered best. These planks must be specially seasoned before using by brushing them repeatedly with olive oil, then placing in a very hot oven until the oiled surface is slightly charred. Some jilanks have wire loops fastened on them by means of which the food is secured to the board ; when this is not the case tacks may be used. The lower part of a gas oven answers the purpose admirably for cooking planked food. It is said that nearly every kind of hsh or meat is improved in the })rocess of planking. Chicken is delicious planked, and as far as fish is concerned no other method of cooking can equal it. Make sure that the plank used will lit the oven. The plank should never be washed with soap and water ; sandpaper it, then rub it clean with brown paper and salt, and put it away in a clean bag until again required. Planked Fish. W'ash and dry a fresh hsh weighing about three pounds. Remove the head, then split the fish from head to tail, so that it can be flattened oiit on the plank. Heat the plank and brush it with oiled butter, place on the fish, skin side down, and tack it on hrmly. Put it into a hot oven. Mi.\ together half a cup of butter, one cup of boiling water, half a teaspoonful of pej)j)er, and one teaspoonful of salt. Baste the hsh with this mi.xture every ten minutes for about thirty minutes. Remove from the oven, place the plank on a dish, and garnish with lemon slices and parsley.AMERICAN PLANKED DISHES. goc) Planked Sirloin Steak with Oysters. Take a double sirloin steak and trim it neatly ; pnt it on the broiler ; grill for live minutes on one side, turn and grill for live minutes on the other side. Make the planking board very hot while the steak is cooking. Put the steak on, garnish the board quickly with mashed potatoes and put it under the broiler. Turn the steak once. Season with salt and pepper and rub it with butter. Cover the top with broiled oysters, then grill again for a lew minutes. Serve hot. Planked Salisbury Steak [American). Chop finely f lb. lean beef steak ; season with salt, pepper, and onion juice, and shape it into three even-sized cakes. Put these on to a hot plank and place under the broiler or griller. Turn the steaks twice whilst cooking. WTen done, garnish the plank with mashed potatoes, and allow to brown. Have ready a baked banana for each cake. Make a cream sauce, and llavour it with an ample quantity of grated horse-radish ; fill this around the board ; place the baked bananas on top, and serve. Planked Lobster. Split a large lobster, heat the plank board thoroughly. Lay the lobster on the plank shell side down ; put it under the gas for twenty minutes ; baste with b\itter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for ten minutes longer. Garnish with small fried potato balls, grated cucumber, and lettuce leaves. Planked Chicken. Split a plump spring chicken, flatten it a little and dip in oil. Stew six mushrooms in a little stock. Heat the plank, put the chicken on it, boned side down, season with salt and pepper, and broil on the board under the gas or in a sharp oven for about forty minutes. Garnish with rice cooked in stock, the mushrooms, and guava jelly. At each side of the dish place two baked bananas, and serve. Turkish Fish Pilaw. Fry for a few minutes 4 oz. of rice in -f a gill of olive oil, drain off the oil, moisten the rice with water and milk, and cook till nearly tender, season with salt, pepper, and very little grated nutmeg. Cut three slices of cod, free from skin and bone, into small pieces, and fry them in a saute-pan containing 4 oz. of hot butter over a quick fire, pour off some of the butter, season as above, and add the cooked rice, also two small cooked artichoke bottoms, a Spanish pepper-pod (Pimiento), both cut into dice shape. Mix carefully and re-heat, then dish up and serve hot. Note.—Turbot or fillets of sole may be used in place of cod, if the former be preferred.910 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XXXVm. DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. There is no other branch in cookery which reqnires more thonght, care, and attention than that intended for the sick-room ; and whilst one is aware that at certain stages in cases of acute illness very little actual cooking is needed, it cannot be denied that the diet of a sick person is quite as important as is the medicine. It is therefore evident that food for the sick must be prepared with the same care as medicine is mixed, and as such it should be adminis- tered with equal care and punctuality as medicine. Nourishing stimulants are prescribed at the acute stage of a disease always, but when this is passed, the right kind of food becomes highly necessary for the restoration of health and strength. Those who have the care of invalids will do well to remember that a judiciously- chosen diet, avoiding all dishes of an indigestible nature, will, as a rule, do far more towards building up the strength than any course of long treatment is likely to accomplish. Beef Tea {Peptonized). lb. lean beef, i tablespoonful liquor pancreaticus, -t pint water (cold), 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda, a pinch of salt. Free the meat from fat and skin. Shred it finely, put it in a well-tinned or enamelled saucepan with the water, and carbonate of soda, and salt, stir with a spoon or fork over a moderate fire for half an hour without allowing it to boil. It must reach 140 deg. Fahr. Strain and let ccol a little, then add the liquor pancreaticus. Re-heat, and serve with slices of toasted bread. Beef Tea {Slow Method). Shred finely ilb. of lean beef, put it in an earthenware stew- jar with I pint of water and salt, stand the jar in a saucejEan of simmering water, or in a very moderate oven for two or three hours. Strain, and carefully remove any fat that may be on the surface. Serve hot with toasted bread. Beef Tea with Gruel. Mix a tablespoonful of groats with very little cold water, add to this half a pint of beef tea ; boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time, and strain. Serve with fingers of nicely toasted bread. Raw Beef Tea {or Beef Juice). I oz. finely shredded lean beef, i tablespoonful water. Put the meat and water into a jar, and stand the jar in a warm place for one hour ; strain, and serve in a red- or green-coloured wine-glass.911 DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVA LESCENTS. Veal Broth with Barley or Sago. I 11). lean veal (leg or knuckle), 1 gill of milk, i oz. of barley or sago, i yolk of egg, seasoning. Put the barley or sago into a basin, pour over some tejhd water, and let soak for a few minutes ; meantime free the veal from skin and cut up into small pieces, put it into a stew-pan or earthenware pot with if- to 2 pints of cold water and a pinch of salt. Let it come slowly to the boil, skim, and simmer gently from two to three hours. Add the soaked barley or sago half an hour before taking up the broth, strain, put back into a clean saucepan, mix the milk and yolk of egg and stir into the broth, heat long enough to bind ; season, and serve. Chicken Broth. I small chicken or fowl, i quart of cold water, 6 peppercorns, 2 cloves, I onion, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. blanched barley or tapioca, pepper and salt to taste. Cut the chicken, after being singed and drawn, into small pieces or joints ; put it into a stew-pan with the water, boil up, skim, add peppercorns, onion, and cloves ; simmer gently from two to three hours ; then strain, and cook in it the blanched barley or tapioca, season to taste, add the chopped parsley, and serve. xA. little chopped chicken meat and chopped onion added would also make the broth more savoury. Giblets may be used for this broth instead of a whole chicken, bnt it is not so nourishing as when made from the latter. Ahte.—The remainder of chicken can be made up as mince, fricassee, or for rissoles, croquettes, etc. ; or, if preferred, use the inferior parts of a fowl, such as the legs and carcase, in which case only one pint of water is.needed and a smaller quantity of tlavonring ingredients to produce the broth. Egg Bouillon. Put the yolk of an egg into a small basin, beat up a little, add a tiny grate of nutmeg, and pour in slowly half-pint of boiling seasoned beef stock or broth. Serve in a enp with a few fingers of freshly- toasted bread. Veal or Mutton Essence. Shred linely one pound of lean veal or mutton, and place in a jar with a gill of water. Cover and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water. Simmer gently for two hours, then strain and press all the liquid from the meat, and add a little salt. A very small quantity of this is given at a time, as it is strong and savoury. Oyster Broth. Cut into small pieces a dozen oysters ; put them in a pint of cold water and let simmer gently for ten minutes ; skim, strain, season to taste, and serve with toasted bread or toasted triscuits cut into fingers. Brown Celery Soup. I small head of celeiy, pint of good stock, I small onion, i oz. of ham or bacon, i oz. ol Initlor, j oz. of Hour, salt and pepper.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 912 Trim and wash the celery, cut it small, and cook in the stock till tender with the onion peeled and sliced and the ham, then rub all through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the hour, ancl fry it carefully a nice brown. Next add the puree and stir it over the lire till it boils, skim, and season to taste. Simmer for hfteen minutes longer. Serve with small crofitons of fried bread. Chicken Cup with Egg. 1- pint chicken broth (p. 911), 2 yolks of eggs, i tablespoonful of sherry. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin and pour over the chicken broth, boiling. Return it to the stew-pan and re-heat whilst whisk- ing, but do not allow it to boil. Add the sherry at the last, season lightly, and serve hot in a cup, with a slice of toasted bread. Barley Cream Soup. Put I oz. of butter into a stew-pan with a small piece of finely chopped onion, add a tablespoonful of “ Patent ” Barley mixed into a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add about one pint of chicken or veal white stock. Stir until it boils, and let it simmer for about half an hour. Then beat up a yolk of egg with half gill of cream, stir this into the boiling soup. Stir it until it thickens, but do not let it boil or it will curdle. Strain and serve with a little finely chopped parsley, if the latter is allowed. Milk Soup. Soak a small cupful of soft breadcrumbs in a pint of milk, and boil it for fifteen minutes with a little finely chopped cooked celery, then strain, beat up an egg in a basin, and add it to the soup ; re-heat it, but do not allow the soup to boil again after the egg is added, or it will curdle. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg if allowed. Rice Soup. Take a pint of chicken stock without cereal thickening, add two tablespoonfuls of rice previously washed and blanched. Simmer slowly for about an hour ; strain, and add half a gill of cream, season to taste. Re-heat, and serve hot. The cream may be omitted. Stewed Oysters. 12 oyster.s, i oz. of butter, | oz. of flour, i gill of oyster liquor or milk, I gill of cream, i yolk of egg, i teaspoouful of lemon-juice, a small blade of mace. Blanch the oysters and remove the beards, and cut each oyster in two. Make a sauce with the brttter, flour, milk, and oyster liquor. Bring to the boil, add the mace and cream. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Add the oysters and yolk of egg to the sauce. Re-heat without boiling ; remove the mace, add the lemon-juice, and serve. Oysters a la Poulette. Blanch one dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain and reserve half the liquid. Beard the oysters. Take half a gill of bechamel sauce and the saved liquor in which the oysters were blanched, add a little salt, a little pepper, and let boil. Stir in the yolks of tw'O eggs and some chopped parsley. Add the oysters, re-heat, and serve.DISHES FOR lA'VALlDS AND CONl'ALESCENTS. 9'3 Fried Sole, I sole, I tablcspoonful of ilour, i egg, breailcruinbs, fr^’iug fat. Wash, skin, and trim the sole. Dip lightly into ilnnr, and season with very little pepper and salt. Egg and cruml) the sole. Fry in hot fat. Drain well and dish np ; garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon. Grilled Sole, Procure a nice fresh sole about three-quarters of a pcnind in weight, skin it, trim off the hns and wipe the fish with a clean cloth. Season with a little pepper and salt, then butter it all over ; place it on a grill and cook over or in front of a nice clear hre. Dish up temptingly, and serve either plain or with parsley butter or witli ordinary white fish sauce. Steamed Sole, Skin a fresh sole, remove the head portion, cut off the hns ; season with a little salt and a few drops of lemon-juice. Have a steamer or a saucepan of boiling water, put the hsh in the steamer on a strainer or on a plate placed on a colander into the saucepan, and steam until the flesh will come easily from the bone (it will take about ten minutes). Put the flsh on a hot dish, pour over it some light white sauce, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. Fried Whiting. Procure a skinned whiting, wipe it with a damp cloth, dip lightly in flour and egg, and crumb it. Fry in hot fat, drain, dish up, and garnish with quarters of lemon and fried or fresh parsley. Fish Cutlets. i lb. cooked fish (free from skin and bones), 2 oz. mashed potatoes, i oz. butter, I yolk of egg, pepper and salt, i whole egg, breadcrumbs, frying fat. Chop the fish flnely, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flsh and potatoes, bind with a yolk of egg, and season to taste. Form into cutlet shapes, egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish, and serve. Baked Fish Pudding. i lb. cooked hsh (free from skin and bones), | lb. cooked potatoes, i oz. butter, I egg, i tablcspoonful milk, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Remove the skin and bones from the flsh, and break the flsh into small flakes, rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, mix it with the flsh, add pepper and salt to taste, melt the butter in a saucepan, add to it the flsh mixture, mix well, and stir in the egg (well beaten), the milk, and parsley, and pour the mixtui'e into a buttered mould or pie-dish, or gallipot, cover with crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes, turn out on to a dksh- paper, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve. Light Fish Pudding. 6 oz. raw or cooked hsh (free from skin and bones), i oz. breadcrumbs, 1 gill milk or stock, i egg, mace, nutmeg, salt and pepper. 3.M914 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Chop the hsh and heat it up in the butter, add the breadcrumbs, previously soaked in halt a gill of milk or veal stock. Season with salt, ])epper, a pinch of ground mace and a grate of nutmeg, and add the egg beaten up. Steam in a buttered mould for about forty-five minutes. Serve with a little white light sauce. Fish Souffle. I whiting, 4 oz. of butter. | oz. of flour, | gill of milk, i egg, gill of cream. Skin and bone the whiting, melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and cook till it leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. (This forms the panada.) Pound the fish well in a mortar, then add the egg panada. Season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Add the cream, whipped. Steam in buttered small dariole moulds for twenty minutes. Turn out, and serve with white sauce. Any other kind of white hsh may be used in this way. Fricassee of Fish. l lb. of white fish {turbot, sole, whiting, cod or haddock), i pint of water, a blade of mace, a few sprigs of parsley, grate of nutmeg ; sauce—1- oz. of butter, I oz. of flour, pint fish stock, gill of milk, i teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Skin and hllet the hsh, cook it for a few minutes in the water with the mace and parsley. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and a gill of the fish stock. Season with lemon-juice, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Add the milk and hllets of hsh, and cook for ten minutes. A border of boiled rice may be served with this dish. Stewed Eel. Wash an eel in cold water and salt, drain it, cut off the head and tail, trim off the hns, and cut up into small pieces. Put it into a stew-pan with enough cold water to cover, and blanch it to extract some of the fat. While the eel is blanching, make the sauce. Eel is particularly suitable for a convalescent who is ordered fat. It is an oily hsh. It can be made into either a brown or white stew : Brown by cooking in brown sauce, adding half a glass of port wine ; White by stewing it in bechamel or parsley sauce. Strain off the liquor from the eel, and put the hsh into the prepared sauce. Season with pepper and salt, and cook for about an hour, or until the eel is tender ; stir occasionally, and keep covered with a lid. Dish up the hsh neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. Fish Eggs [Scrambled). 3 eggs, 2 to 3 oz. cooked white tish (liaked), pepper and salt, i tablespoonlul cream or milk, 2 oz. butter, buttered toast. Beat up the eggs, add the cream or milk, season to taste. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flaked fish, fry for a few seconds, stir in the eggs, etc. ; and continue stirring over the Are until the mixture begins to thicken. Have the buttered toast placed on a hot dish or plate, })ile the mixture on to it, and serve, Chicken Croquettes. 3 oz. of cooked chicken, l oz. of cooked ham, oz. of butter, | oz. of Hour, I yolk of egg, ] gill of stock or milk, i egg, breadcrumbs, frying fat.915 DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. Clioj) the chicken and ham linely, make a sauce with tlie batter, hour, and stock, add the egg-yolk. Season to taste. Put in the minced chicken, parsley, and ham. IMix well, spread on a plate to cool. Form into ball, cutlet or cork shapes. Egg and crnmb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain well, dish np on lace paper, and garnish with parsley. Chicken Fillets with Oysters. Remove the breast from a raw chicken, take off the skin, and flatten the meat with a cntlet-bat. Trim each fillet thus obtained, cnt it in two, and place a raw bearded oyster in the centre of each hllet. Season lightly with pepper, salt, and lemon-inice, roll each hllet in a piece of battered paper. Place them in a battered sante- pan with a little stock. Cook in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Take np, remove the paper, dish np and ponr over a nicely-made white sauce. Sweetbread with White Sauce. Blanch a small heart sweetbread, trim it, and cook it in a stew- pan with sufficient well-seasoned stock and a slice of ham or lean bacon. Allow about forty-five minutes to cook it gently ; skim occasionally. Have ready a gill of white sauce, heat it np, and add to it the yolk of an egg and a few drops of lemon-jnicc. Take np the sweetbread and place it into the sauce to get thoroughly liot, but not boiling. Dish up the sweetbread, pour over sauce, garnish with a few sippets of toasted or fried bread, and serve. Fried Sweetbread. Blanch a small heart sweetbread, trim it, then place it between tw'o plates to press ; when cold put it with about two ounces of butter in a clean stew-pan or saute-pan, add the juice of half a lemon, season to taste, cover with a buttered paper and cook in the oven for about half an hour. Keep it well basted whilst cooking. When cooked, let cool, cut it into slices, egg and breadcrumb each slice carefully, and fry for eight or ten minutes in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish wdth fried parsley, and serve very hot. Raw Beef Sandwiches. Shred finely four ounces raw lean beef (fillet or steak), season it with salt and pepper, spread it between thinly-cut slices of buttered bread. Press the sandwiches thus obtained, trim off the crust and cut into squares, oblongs, crescents or rounds. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Grilled Mutton Chop. To prepare a chop for grilling, trim off some of the fat, and wipe it with a clean damp cloth. Always have a clear fire for grilling, heat the grill before placing the chop on it, put it close to the fire, allowing about two minutes for each side, then cook it less quickly until done, turning it frequently. Put it on a hot plate or small dish, with a little parsley or maitre d’hotel butter on the top, and serve with fried potatoes, potato straws or mashed potatoes.916 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Grilled Lamb Chop. Lamb chop is treated in the same way as mutton chop (see P- 915)- Steamed Chop. Procure a loin chop, trim oh the fat, and roll round and skewer the end. Place it on a small plate and put it in a stew-pan contain- ing a little seasoned stock or water. If the latter is used, add a little Oxo or Lemco to flavour it, also a sprig of thyme and parsley. Cover the pan and cook for half an hour or until the meat is well done. Serve it on a small bed of mashed potatoes, garnished with parsley, and a thin slice of lemon. Grilled Fillet of Beef. Trim, flatten, and shape a fillet of beef, and proceed to grill it as directed for mutton chop on page 915. Minced Mutton. Remove the bone and fat from a chump or loin chop, and mince it very finely by hand, not machine. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan, when hot, put in the meat and cook very gently for ten minutes. Season very lightly with salt and pepper, and serve with small lingers of toasted bread. Puree of Fish, Chicken or Meat. For this either raw fish, poultry, game or meat, according to choice and the doctor’s orders, may be used, the proportion being -1- lb. of puree meat, i gill of cream, 3 yolks of eggs, pinch of corn- flour, Ir pint stock. Stir the puree in an earthenware vessel placed in a bain-marie (hot-water bath) until it reaches 190 deg. Fahr. ; the dish is then ready to serve. Poached Eggs in Milk. Poaching an egg practically means boiling it in water or milk without the shell. To poach eggs in milk, three-parts fill a small saute-pan with milk, add a pinch of salt, break two eggs sepa- rately into a saucer, taking care not to break the yolks, and slip them into the milk when boiling. Boil gently for five minutes. Take up with a slice, trim off the rough edge of each egg, place them on two rounds of buttered toast, pour a little milk on the plate or dish, and serve. Steamed Eggs. This is considered one of the most digestible ways of cooking eggs. Place two new-laid eggs in a warm basin, large enough to hold the eggs and water to well cover them. Pour over boiling water (the usual proportion being one gill to each egg). Allow the basin to stand on the side of the stove or in the oven for six or eight minntes. They are then ready to serve. Invalid jToast. To make a very nourishing toast shred \’ery finely two to three ounces of lean beef, put it in a saucepan with half an ounce of melted butter, and brown over a cjuick fire. Season with very9'7 DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. little salt. Toast two thin slices of bread, butter one side of each slightly, and spread the I>eef over them. Place them on a dish or plate, garnish with crisp parsley, and .serve hot. Nourishing Custard [Savoury). 3 yolks of eggs, i gill milk, | gill water, i teaspoonfiil Lemco. Beat up the egg-yolks, mi.\ the Lemco with the water previously heated, and stir into the heaten eggs. Boil up the milk and add it to the above, season to taste, and pour into a well-buttered mould or basin. Place the mould in a stew-pan containing some hot water, cover with buttered paper, and cook .slowly in the oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out, and serve hot or cold. In cooking this custard, quick baking or steaming should be avoided, so as to prevent any e.xcess of coagulation of the albumen contained in the eggs and the meat extract. Barley Custard Pudding. I oz. patent barley, i teaspoonful castor sugar, J oz. butter, i pint milk, a tiny pinch of .salt, i large egg, nutmeg. Boil the milk, mix the barley with the sugar and a little cold milk. Pour on the hot milk, return to the fire, add the butter and a small pinch of salt, stir till it boils, add the yolk of the egg, • whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture when it has cooled a little. Butter a small pie-dish, pour in the prepared custard, grate a little nutmeg on top, and bake for fifteen minutes. Custard Pudding. f pint milk, 2 eggs, 1- oz. castor sugar, llavouring. Beat up the eggs, add to them the milk and sugar and flavouring, pour the custard into a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes ; sprinkle over the sugar, and serve either hot or cold. The same ingredients can be put in a greased basin and steamed, or they can be put in a double saucepan or jar and boiled. Savoury Custard. A savoury custard can be made by substituting herbs, chopped meat, and pepper and salt for the sugar and fla\’ouring, proceeding the same as directed for custard pudding. Suet Pudding. 4 oz. flour. 2 oz. beef suet, oz. castor sugar, i egg, J- teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, a pinch of salt. Remove the skin from the suet and chop it very finely. Put it in a basin with the flour, sugar, baking-powder, and salt. Beat up the egg and stir in. Work into a smooth paste and fill into small well-greased timbale or dariole moulds. Cover each with buttered paper and steam for forty-five to sixty minutes. Turn out, and serve with honey or jam. Tapioca Pudding. f pint milk, i tablespoonful tapioca, i small dessertspoonful castor sugar, I egg, flavouring essence (vanilla or lemon). Put the tapioca to soak in the milk for a few minutes, and cook over the fire until the tapioca is <[uite tender. Wdien cooked letTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 9i8 it cool slightly, then add the sugar, the beaten egg, and a few drops of flavouring essence. Butter a pie-dish, pour the pudding into it, and bake for about twenty minutes. Hominy Pudding. 2 oz. cooked hominy, |- pint milk, i egg, i oz. castor sugar, and flavouring essence (vanilla or lemon). Boil up the milk and pour it over the hominy, stir, cover, and let it stand to soak for a few hours. Beat in the egg, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of flavouring essence or leave plain witli- out sugar or flavottring. Pour tlie mixture into a buttered pie-chslr and bake for twenty minutes. Invalid Fruit Pie. 3 sponge cakes, 3 apples or pears, stewed and rubbed through a sieve, 11 gill milk, I egg, a little sugar. Cut the sponge cakes into thin slices, line a buttered pie-dish with some of the slices, fill up with alternate layers of fruit-pulp and sponge cake. Boil up the milk, remove from the fire, stir in the egg and beat well, pour this into a buttered pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Dredge with castor sugar, and serve. Apple Jelly. Peel two large sour cooking apples, cut them into slices, and conk with a gill of water, one ounce and a half of loaf sugar, and a little lemon-rind, till tender. Add the juice of half a lemon and pass through sieve, dissolve three sheets or quarter of an ounce of gelatine in a little water, strain into the pulp, and mould. Prune Jelly. Stew six ounces of prunes in sufficient water to cover them well, add a small piece of cinnamon and about half an ounce of loaf sugar. When sufficiently cooked add a quarter of, an ounce of gelatine previously soaked and dissolved in a little water, and rub the fruit and juice through a sieve. Pour this into small moulds and let set. Serve with cream or custard. Egg Jelly. i ]iint liquid (juice of i lemon made up to -} pint with water), the rind of I lemon, 3 oz. loaf sugar, : egg, | oz. gelatine. Put the gelatine in a saucejian, add to it the sugar and lemon- rind, strain the juice, and make it up to half a pint with water. Add this to the other ingredients, beat the egg and add ; stir tlie jelly over a moderate fire until the gelatine is melted ; strain into small monlcls, and when set turn out on to a dish and serve. Arrowroot Gruel. Mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, stir it slowly into half a pint of boiling milk, and let simmer for five minutes. It must be stirred all the time. Add a tea- .spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, one of cinnamon (nr in jdace of cinnamon use a little brandy or a dozen large raisins). Cornflour or rice-flour grifel is made in the same way.OTO DISHES FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS. Gruel. Mix gradiuilly one heaped-up tablcspoonfnl of “ Patent ” (iiaxits with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, when snKxjth pour into a stew-pan containing f ])int of boiling water or milk, stir the gruel over the hre i:ntil it boils, and allow to cook for ten minutes ; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter or, if more agreeable and allowed, sweeten with a little castor sugar. Baked Milk. Baked milk is sometimes recommended as a drink for invalids. Put the milk in a stone jar, cover it closely, and let it bake very slowly several hours in a fairly hot oven, when it should be thic'k and of a creamy consistency. The flavour is unique, and reminds one somewhat of Devonshire cream. It may be served with fruit or as custard. Milk Porridge. I pint milk, ]- teaspooulul salt, i tablespooiiful Hour. Heat the milk in a clean saucepan, saving enough cold milk to moisten the flour. Mix the flour to a thin smooth paste. Add this gradually to the hot milk and cook for half an hour or until the raw taste has disappeared. Stir until it thickens, then cover and cook over hot water (in a “ bain-marie ”). Strain and serve with fresh milk or cream. If nutmeg is liked, grate a little over the toju Bread and Milk. Rub some breadcrumbs through a fine sieve, let soak with boiling water in a cup, place saucer on top, allowing the crumbs to steep fifteen minutes, drain off the water, and pour on instead some warm milk. Beat well up, and then put the bread and milk into an enamelled saucepan, then boil gently for a minute or two, stand it aside to cool a little, and, before giving to the patient, stir it and see that it is nice and smooth, adding a little sugar and more milk, if liked. (This can always be warmed again if wanted later on.) Egg Coffee. Beat up the yolk of an egg in a cup and pour in slowly two parts of boiling milk and one part of freshly-made coffee. Sweeten to taste or serve without sugar as desired. Egg Tea. Cream the yolk of an egg with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar and add to it the stithy wliisked white of an egg ; pour on half a l)reakfastcupful of boiling milk and a little freshly-made tea, just enough to flavour. Strain into a smaller (Uip, juit a suspicion of grated nutmeg on top, and serve. Egg Nog. Whisk up the white of a new-laid egg, when stiff add a dessert- spoonful of castor sugar. Mix the yolk with a tablespoonful of iced water and three of milk, flavour witli a small glass of sherry or marsala. Pour this into a tumbler or cup, tlieu add tlie whisked wliite of egg. Stir gently and serve.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Q20 Egg Wine. 1 egg, I glass of sherry, sugar to taste, jiiiit of boiling water. Beat the egg up well, add the sugar and sherry. Pour the boiling water on to the egg. Return to the saucepan, and stir till it thickens. Do not boil or it will curdle. Serve hot. If liked, it can be served when the boiling water is poured on, and need not be cooked in the saucepan. Egg and Soda-Water. Beat up the yolk of an egg with one teaspoonful of castor sugar till frothy. Add two tablespoonfuls of milk and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour this into a tumbler and fill np with soda-water. Lemonade. I lemon, \ oz. loaf sugar, pint boiling water. Peel the lemon very thinly. Put the rind, the juice of the lemon, and sugar, into a clean jug, and ponr on it the boiling water. Cover and let cool, then strain and serve. A little more sugar may be added if needed. Great care must be taken to peel the lemon very thinly and to remove white skin afterwards, otherwise the lemonade will be bitter. Lemon Whey. Boil half a pint of milk in a fireproof china saucepan, add the jnice and the rind of half a lemon. Let it simmer for two minutes, then strain through muslin, flavonr with a tablespoonful of marsala or sherry, and sweeten to taste. Junket. Warm a pint of milk, pour it into the basin, add i oz. castor sugar and i teaspoonful of rennet, and allow the junket to set, grate over a little nutmeg, and pnt a small quantity of whipped cream on top. Iced Drink. Add the juice of a lemon to a pint of water in which an ounce of loaf sugar has been dissolved, mix with the white of an egg, and beat well up. This is delicious iced. Apple Water. Pour a pint of boiling water, sweetened, over two roasted apples. Allow to stand covered for three hours, and strain. Raisin Tea. This is usually made by infusing lb. raisins (stoned) with I pint of boiling water in the same way as tea is made ; or put the raisins and boiling water into a saucepan and cook them slowly for about two hours. Strain it, and serve. Raisin tea is a good, mild laxative, and is often used after abdominal operations, five ounces being given every four hours, alternating with milk.921 C H A P T 1^ R XXXIX . SANDWICHES. Sandwich-making, in tlic ordinary sense, is simple enough, for almost anything edible can be made into a sandwich, but ]>lacing slices of cooked meat, hard-boiled egg or salad between slices of buttered bread by no means completes this culinary branch, which has of late years been carried to a fine art by thoughtful chefs and maitres d’hotel. In addition to the simple sandwiches, I have included a number of more or less unknown “ fancy sandwiches,” useful for cold collations, supper and lunch parties, receptions, etc., where they figure prominently as a rule. On special occasions, where a variety of sandwiches are served, it is advisable to place a neatly-written label on each dish, which indicates the name of the sandwich. Fancy sandwiches are usually richer than so-called plain sand- wiches ; the former, as a rule, are made up in smaller portions than the latter. Dainty-looking and daintily-prepared sandwiches do not cost much more than the coarsely-prepared, dry-looking sandwiches which one frequently meets with. What is wanted (more than additional outlay in materials) is a little more care and attention in the preparation. It matters little as to the shape of the sandwiches ; they may be cut into square, oblong, round or crescent shapes. They should be dished up on lace-paper or a folded napkin, arranged in a row or circle, so that each piece of sandwich overlaps the other. The best way to keep sandwiches fresh and moist is to place a damp napkin over them until they are required for table. Simple or Plain Sandwiches. Cut some slices of bread (one day old tin loaf) about an eighth of an inch in thickness, knead some fresh butter with a little made mnstard (mustard mi.xed with water to a paste), spread one side of each slice of bread with a thin layer of butter. Cut the meat to be used into thin slices (freed from skin and gristle), cover the buttered side of half the number of slices of bread with one or more slices of meat, season to taste, and put the buttered side of the other slices of bread on top of those co\'ered witli meat. Press them together firmly, trim the edges, cut off the crust, cut each sandwich into even-sized portions any shape desired, dish up neatly, and garnish with a few sprigs of cnrly parsley. Sardine Sandwiches. Use boneless sardines (sardines sans aretes), and carefully wipe off the skins from tlie sardines with a damp cloth. Divide each sardine in halves longways, lay out on tliinly-cnt slices of breadTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 922 (buttered), season with a pinch of pepper, strew over a small quan- tity of finely shredded lettuce or small cress, or some thin slices of ripe tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper, cover each with a plainly-buttered slice of bread, press lightly, trim neatly, and cut into conveniently-shaped portions. Dress on a dish and garnish tastefully. Salmon and Lobster Sandwiches. 12 thinlv-cut slices of bread and butter, 3 oz. of cold salmon, 2 oz. lobster (free from bone), 2 tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise (p. 152), 2 French gherkins, I teaspoonfnl of anchovy paste, i tablespoonfnl double cream, salt and pepper. Pound the salmon and lobster in a mortar, add the mayonnaise and anchovy paste, chop finely the gherkins and add also, mix well and work in the cream. Season with salt and pepper. Spread the buttered sides of all the slices of bread rather thickly with this preparation, and place in twos one on top of the other (spread sides together, of course). Take a cutlet cutter, plain or fluted, stamp out carefully as many cutlet shapes as possible, dress them in a circle on a dish with folded napkin or lace paper, pointed end up. Fill up the centre with a plain salad. Thinly-sliced tomatoes or shredded celery makes a nice change, dressed in the centre. Anchovy Sandwiches. Wipe and bone six to twelve gorgona anchovies, pound them, mix with three to four hard-boiled yolks of eggs and an ounce of bntter. Season with paprika pepper and chopped parsley. Spread between thin slices of bread and butter, or between water biscuits or triscuits. Caviare Sandwiches. Prepare some thinly-cut slices of brown or white bread, mix a little butter with a few drops of lemon-juice and a pinch of cayenne pepper, and butter the bread with this. Spread each slice with hygienic caviare or else fresh Russian caviare, strew over with very little finely chopped washed shallots, place together in the usual manner, press lightly, cut into triangles or crescent shapes, decorate with creamed butter tinted with paprika or krona pepper or left plain, dish up in rows or in a circle, garnish with sprigs of parsley and thin slices of lemon, and serve. Game Sandwiches. Prepare several slices of toasted bread, slit each slice in two, have ready some stiffly-prepared tartare or remoulade sance, put a thin layer on the cut sides of the toast, lay between finely shredded celery thin slices of cooked game (pheasant, partridge, or other bird). Press together, trim the edges, and cut into fingers. Dish up, and garnish with a few sprigs of watercress and quarters of lemon. Chicken Sandwiches. Remove the breast of a chicken (cooked, roast or boiled), and cut into thin slices. Have ready some thinly-cut slices of bread slightly buttered, spread with stiff mayonnaise ; place the chicken betweenSANDWICHES. 023 each two slices of bread ; trim, and press gently one on top of the other. Cnt into squares, triangles, or fingers ; if cnt in squares, pare off the corners. Dish np neatly and garnish tastefully. Foie-gras Sandwiches. Pound in a mortar some foie-gras pate free from lard and truffle, add a little butter (say one and a half ounce to a small terrine or tin of foie-gras), season with half a teaspoonful of aromatic spice and a pinch of cayenne or krona pepper ; mix well and spread this over a number of slices of buttered bread. Cut the truffle found iu the foie-gras into thin slices, and place one or more slices on toj) of the puree. Place each two together and press well. Cut out some crescent, oblong, round, or oval shapes ; dish up neatly and garnish to taste. Denises de Fromage a la Creme [Cheese Cream Sandwiches). 3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese, 2 large tablespoonfuls double cream, a little cri.sp celery or a few shelled and peeled walnuts, bread and butter, cayenne. Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them slightly, shred either celery or walnuts very finely, and mix this wifh the cheese and cream. Spread the buttered side of the bread slices with this, place them together like sandwiches, cut them into pretty shajies, squares, oblongs, crescents, or stars. Dish up, garnish with S]U'igs f)f parsley, and serve. Cheese Sandwiches. Rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg through a sieve or strainer, put it in a basin and mix till smooth with two tablespoonfuls of oiled butter, then add one tablespoonful of vinegar (white wine vinegar is best), add also a small teaspoonful of mixecl Colman’s mustard and a cupful of grated cheese. Stir well and season with a little salt, some white pepper and cayenne. Spread this mixture be- tween thinly-cnt and buttered slices of brown bread. Press together lightly, trim the edges, and cut into desired shapes. Egg Sandwiches. I’repare a paste with the following ingredients : 3 yolks of hard-boiled eggs, oz. of fresh butter, salt and pepper, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, 2 teaspoonfuls of ancliovy or .shrim]i essence. Mix all the ingredients well together and rub tlirough a sieve to make the paste perfectly smooth. C^se ou brown or wliite buttered bread, and proceed as directed in other recipes. Roquefort Cheese Sandwiches. Fresh roquefort cheese, with thick cream, mixed into a paste, and spread on thin slices of buttered bread pressed and cut into neat shapes. Gruyere Cheese Sandwiches. Cut thin slices of brown bread, and butter them. Spread thin slices of gruvere cheese with a little French mustard. Dust with salt and }ie))iipr. Make into sandwiches, with a little tlunly-sli('ed cucumber laid ou the cheese.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 924 Tartines a la Creole {Creole Egg Sandwiches). I gill mayonnaise, ] gi" aspic, i sheet gelatine, 2 hard-boiled eggs, thin slices of bread, watercress or parsley for garnish. Melt the aspic jelly, dissolve in it the gelatine, and strain. Stir this whilst still liqnid gradually into the mayonnaise, which should be nicely seasoned. Chop finely the white of the hard-boiled eggs and rub the yolks through a wire sieve. Stamp out some rounds of bread about ^ of an inch thick. Mask one side of each round with the prepared mayonnaise just before it sets. Season the whites of egg with a little vinegar or lemon-juice. Arrange these smartly in a ring on the masked rounds of bread, leaving the centre spaces to be filled with the yolks. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of cress or parsley, and serve. Tartines roulees {Rolled Sandwiches). 6 oz. cooked chicken (free from skin and bone), 2 oz. ham or tongue, 2 oz. butter, cayenne or krona pepper, i loaf of brown bread at least one day old, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, i oz. of fresh butter, parsley. Pound the chicken and ham or tongue in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the butter (2 oz.), mix thoroughly and season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut some very thin slices of brown bread (slightly buttered) and trim off the crust. Mix the puree above prepared with one or two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce and spread the buttered side of the bread with this. Roll up firmly each slice and press lightly for twenty minutes ; then roll up tightly in a clean cloth and place them on the ice for one or two hours. To serve, untie the rolls and dish them up neatly on small silver dishes, covered with a lace paper, and garnish with parsley. The rolls may be cut in halves if liked. Any other kind of meat may be used in place of chicken. Potted game or foie-gras makes a nice change. Sandwiches a la Bernhardt. \ lb. cold meat, lean veal, beef or mutton, 2 oz. fresh butter, i teaspoonful mustard, i tablespoonful American tomato chutney, i teaspoonful mango chutney, 2 small shallots, pepper and .salt, mustard and cress, white or brown bread and butter, parsley. Remove all skin and fat from the meat, cut it into small pieces, pound in a mortar with an ounce of butter till quite smooth, then add the mustard (mixed), tomato, and mango chutney. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a very pale colour in the remainder of butter, and mix with the above. Season to taste, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Cut the bread into thin slices, butter them lightly and spread the buttered side with the prepared puree, sprinkle some mustard and cress over half the slices, place them together in the usual manner, press them a little, and cut into round, square or half-moon shapes. Arrange them neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, on a plate or dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Sandwiches a la Chesterfield. Cut some thin slices of white stale bread, spread these over one side with a thin layer of mustard butter, lay upon this some thin slices of })reserved mango or other chutney ; on top of fhis spread925 SANDWICHES. a layer of foie-gras and chicken puree, made as follows : Pound ecpial quantities of cold chicken breast and foie-gras, season and rub through a hue sieve and mix with mayonnaise. Cover the bread thus prepared with a second slice of buttered bread, pare them neatly and cut into neat shapes pressed chjsely together, and dress them on a glass or silver dish on a folded napkin. Sweetbread Sandwiches, Cut some cold sweetbread, boiled or braised, into thin slices, and lay them between thinly-cut buttered bread, or use smaller pieces of sweetbread, chop or pound to a paste and mix with a fourth its quantity of green pea puree, season with pepper and salt, and add a little mayonnaise dressing and lemon-jihce. Spread on thin slices of lightly buttered bread, sandwich together and cut into desired shapes. Dish up, and garnish tastefully. Asparagus Sandwiches. pint asparagus points (cooked), I gill mayonnaise sauce, h gill aspic, t gill whipped cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, bread and butter. In the first instance, make sure that the asparagus points, i.c. green part of the stalk, are thoroughly cooked in salted water, con- taining a small piece of loaf sugar. Drain and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the puree in a basin to cool, then stir in gradually the mayonnaise sauce and the aspic jelly—the latter must be liquid, but on no account warm ; add the cream as the mixture begins to set. Season to taste, cut some thin slices of bread, butter them lightly and spread some of the prepared puree on each slice, tlien place them together as for ordinary sandwiches and cut into rounds, oblongs, or squares. Arrange them on a dish or plate, fill up the centre with crisp salad, and, if liked, some slices of hard-boiled eggs. Olivette Sandwiches. 4 chicken livers, i small shallot, I oz. butter, 6 large stoned Sjianish olives, salt, pepper, mayonnai.se sauce, thin slices of liread and butter. Clean the livers, peel and chop the shallot, fry in tlie butter a golden colour, then add the liver previously cut into slices, season with salt and jiepper and cook over a quick fire for about five minutes, pound in a mortar with the olives, and nd) through a sieve. Moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce and put between thin slices of buttered bread, cut into convenienth^-sized fancy shapes, dish up on small glass dishes, and serve, Denises a I'Epicurienne {Epicurean Sandwiches). il oz. fresh butter, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, 4 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, I teaspoonful Colman’s mustard, 3 boned anchovies, i table- spoonful piccalilli, a sprig of tarragon, thin shoes of bread. Cream the butter in the mortar, add the egg-yolks and anchovies, pound till smooth, moisten with the mayonnaise, chop the piccalilli and tarragon very finely, and add to the above. Mix thoroughlv, adding the mustard and a little more seasoning if needed. Spread one side of the slices of bread with this, press them together in the usual way. Cut into crescents, fingers, or other fanciful shapes, dish, and garnish to taste.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 926 Lettuce Sandwiches. Cut the required number of very thin slices of bread, butter them lightly on one side, and spread with a thin layer of tartare sauce, which is made by mixing a little mayonnaise sauce with hnely chopped parsley and gherkins, flavoured with mustard. Wash, trim, drain and shred some crisp lettuce-leaves, place them on the slices of bread, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and sandwich them together. Cnt into conveniently-sized sandwiches, dish up, and garnish with sprigs of crisp parsley. Cucumber and Lettuce Sandwiches. Cut some thin slices of bread, free from crust. Mix a little made mustard with butter, and butter the slices. Peel thinly a cucumber, shred hnely the heart of a lettuce, lay out on half the slices of but- tered bread, sprinkle over some chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, and spread with a thin layer of seasoned mayonnaise, and place the remainder of slices of bread on top of these. Press, trim, and cut into convenient sizes, and dish uj). Empress Sandwiches. IMix a gill of fairly stiff mayonnaise with two tablespoon- fuls of whipped cream, and a teaspoonful of hnely grated horse- radish. Peel and split a cucumber, remove the seedy parts, and chop the cucumber hnely. Spread thin slices of lightly buttered bread with this mixture ; sprinkle with finely chopjjed tongue ; cover witli more of the mixture and a slice of bread. Press the sand- wiches lightly, trim and cut into neat portions, dish up, and garnish. Chasseur Sandwiches. Mince some cold game and ham, beef, or mutton, fairly free from fat and skin ; to each lb. allow two yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and make into a paste. Mix well, and season with salt and pepper, and a little whipped cream. S})read between thinly-cut slices of but- tered bread. Press them lightly, trim and cut into desired portions ; dish np neatly, and garnish with cress or parsley. Danish Sandwiches. Procure a tin of lax (smoked scdmon preserved in oil). Place the slices of lax on a cloth to be well drained from its oil. Cut length- ways two thin slices of bread from a tin loaf (sandwich loaf), butter them lightly ; lay on one of the slices of bread enough lax to well cover the buttered side. Place the other pieces of bread upon this, and press together lightly. Have ready a mixture of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, rubbed through a sieve and mixed with half its quan- tity of fresh bntter, season with a little mustard, pepper and salt. Spread the surface of the sandwich with this. Stamp out some crescent or oval shapes by means of a sharp cutter, and continue to prepare as many sandwiches as are required in this way. Mix the remainder of egg-yolk biitter with a little lobster coral, place it in a forcing-bag and force out a roll shape in the centre of each sand- wich. Dish up, and garnish with small sprigs of parsley,SANDWICHES. Tartines a la Sicilienne (Sicily Sandwiches). Drain six to eight sardines, remove the skin and bones, pnt them in a mortar with six hard-boiled yolks of eggs, i \ oz. of fresh bnttcr, and pound till smooth ; season with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, y teaspoonful paprika pepper, and a dash of grated nutmeg. i\Iix well and mb through a line sieve. Spread the paste between slices of buttered brown or white bread, cut out some half-moon, crescent, or huger shapes ; dish up, garnish with mustard and cress, and thin slices of lemon. Fruit Sandwiches. For these sandwiches jdain cake, such as Genoese or Madeira, or milk bread, should be used. It should be at least twenty-four hours old and cut into slices. Cut thin slices of fruit, such as pine- apple, apricot, or peaches, fresh or preserved. Whip some cream and sweeten with vanilla or plain castor sugar. Spread one side of the cake or bread slices with it, place the fruit neatly between each two slices. Trirn off the crust and cut into convenient slices, plain or fancy, as desired. Dish up, and garnish with glace fruit, such as cherries and angelica. Nut Sandwiches. Chop finely some peeled walnuts or other nuts, not too dry. Cut the required number of slices of buttered bread (white or brown) and spread over with mayonnaise, season with krona or paprika ]>epper and salt, then sprinkle thickly with chopped nuts. Sandwich the slices together, press them slightly, trim off the crust, and cut into desired slices or portions. Dish up, and garnish tastefully. Turenne Sandwiches (Chicken Liver). Pound in a mortar some sauteed chicken liver, moisten with a little Madere sauce, season and rub through a hue sieve ; then mix with finely chopped pimientos, and use as a sandwich hlling. Tzarina Sandwiches (Horse-radish). Cut some thin slices of white bread, and butter one side of each with horse-radish butter (page 176), then line each with thin slices of cucumber and make up into sandwiches of desired size and shape. Petit-Due Sandwiches (Mushroom). Sjiread a puree of mushrooms, made from finely chojiped pre- served champignons, between slices of brown bread, previously buttered with horse-radish butter (page 176). Press and make up into fancifully-cut sandwiches. Russian Sandwiches. These are made with fresh Russian caviare, blended with mayon- naise sauce and seasoned with pajirika, and then spread between slices of buttered brown bread. i\Iake up into small sandwiches in the usual way.928 THE NEW CENTURY CUOKERYWOOK. CHAPTER'XL. PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Continental Gateaux, Cakes, 'rARTLEXS, Dessert Biscuits, Bon-bons, etc. Nougat Basket {Corbeille de Nougat). IJ lb. cane sugar, 12 oz. almonds, } teaspoonful cream of tartar. Put the sugar in a clean copper boiling-pan, add to it about } gill of water and let dissolve. Blanch, peel, and chop the almonds, not too finely. Dry them near the oven. Have ready a clean marble slab, grease it, grease likewise the copper mould used for making the basket. Place the sugar on the fire, boil up and skim, then add the cream of tartar. As soon as the sugar acquires a pale amber colour, add the almonds. Mix well, and put the mix- ture on the slab, let it cool a little, then roll out quickly with a greased rolling-pin, cut out the desired shaped pieces and press them into the monld. Unmould as soon as set and Use the basket for serving ices, bon-bons, petits fours, etc. cool. Log Cake or Yule Cake. Prepare a Genoese or Swiss roll mixture, and spread on a buttered and paper-lined baking-sheet. Bake in a fairly hot oven, turn out on a clean board, spread with a layer of warm jam or apricot marmalade, and roll np whilst hot. Trim the edges slant- wise and coat, when cold, with chocolate or coffee icing. Decorate with the same icing to imitate a log of a tree. Cut some small leaves of angelica and use these with halves of glace cherries for the same purpose. (For Gcnoise Cake Mixture, see pp. 80C or 93O.) Wedding Cake {Gateau de Noccs). 2 11). butter, 2 11). castor sugar, iS eggs, 2 lb. (lour, 2 lb. currants, 2 lb. sultanas, 1 11). raisins (stoned), I lb. mixed peel, } oz. ground ginger, ;J- oz. allspice, -J- oz. ground mace, I oz. ground cinnamon, ;J- lb. almonds peeled and chopped coarsely, 6 lemons, 6 oranges, i gill rum or brandy, a little liijuid caramel. Cream the butter and sugar, and beat it well in a large earthen-92y PASTRY AND CONPECL lONERY. wart' pan. Work in the eggs one by one, and continue to beat the mixture for at least half an lionr. Add the fruit pre- viously cleaned, the rnm or brandy, the spices, and the ll(.)iir. When thor o n g h 1 y mixed and worked i.c. beaten up—fill into one or two well-greased and paper- lined cake-tins, bake in not too hot an oven from two to three hours, according to the size of tins used. When baked, cover witli almond jxiste, next coat all over with a layer of royal icing (see p. 139), let this set well, and lastly mask with a layer of transparent icing (see p. 138). Decorate and ornament tastefully with glace royal. Madeira Cake. 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 5 eggs, 10 oz. Hour, grated lenioii-riiid, candied orange-peel, i small glass ^Iadeira wine. Cream together the butter and sugar, add the grated rind of lialf a lemon, and work in the eggs one by one. Beat the mixture for fifteen minutes, then add the wine, and by degrees the Hour (sifted). Put the mixture into a buttered cake-tin, place one or two slices of orange-peel on top, and bake for about thirty-live minutes in a fairly hot oven. Genoa Cake. 8 oz. butter. 8 oz. castor sugar, 12 oz. flour (sifted), 6 eggs, i teaspoonful baking-powder, i lemon, 6 oz. sultanas (cleaned), 2 oz. peeled almonds. Cream the butter and sugar together, grate the rind of the lemon and add. Work in one by one the eggs and beat well, lastly add the fruit and almonds, cut into shreds, and the baking- powder. Bake in a well-greased cake-tin from thirty-five to forty minutes. Dundee Cake. I lb. best butter, i lb. castor sugar, i 11). flour (dried and sifted), it lb. sultanas (cleaned), 12 eggs, a few almonds and caraway comfits. Cream butter and sugar together, add the eggs gradually, then the fruit and Hour. Beat for at least twenty mjnutes, and bake in well-bnttered and lined moulds, garnish the top with peeled almonds and caraway comfits. Brioches parisiennes. Prepare a brioche paste (see p. 137), when well risen, beat in two more eggs. Divide two-thircls of it into eight parts and place 8 N SUGGESTED DESIGN FOR A CAKE XOF WITH GLACE ROYAL.930 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. in well-buttered brioche tins. Make a hollow in the centre of the paste and wet it. Divide the remainder into eight ]iarts again and shajie like pears ; put each small end downwards into the centre of the tins ; egg the surface of each, cut a few incisions with the point of a knife, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for about forty minutes. Note.—A little more sugar may be added in making the paste if the brioches are desired sweeter. Walnut Cake, 4 oz. butter, 5 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, 2 oz. chopped walnuts, 6 oz. flour (sifted), -J tcaspoonful vanilla essence, i teaspoonful baking-powder, fondant chocolate or moka icing, walnuts and glac: fruit for decoration. Work the butter and sugar to a cream ; stir in gradually the eggs, add the chopped walnuts, vanilla essence, baking-powder, and the tlour, which should be sifted and warmed. Bake in a well-buttered Hat cake-tin in a fairly hot oven. When cold, ice over with moka, chocolate, or fondant icing. Decorate the top tastefully with halves of peeled walnuts and glace fruit. Cocoanut Cake. 3 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 4 oz. butter (dissolved), tea- spoonful vanilla essence, 2 oz. desiccated cocoanut. Beat up the eggs and sugar till light and creamlike, add by degrees the flour and the butter, which must be nearly cold, mix in the vanilla essence and cocoanut. Bake in a border or flat cake- mould (well-buttered) in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Serena Cake. Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, adding also two ounces of glace fruit cut up into shreds. Mask, when baked and cooled, with rum-flavonred fondant icing, and decorate with glace fruit. Rock Cakes {Gateaux Roehers). lb. flour (sifted), 5 oz. castor sugar, i teaspoonful baking-powder, 6 oz. butter, I oz. lemon and orange peel (finely cut), i oz. currants (cleaned), I whole egg and 1 yolk, i tablespoonful of milk, -f teaspoonful grated nutmeg. Put the flour in a basin, rub in the butter till c}uite fine. Add the baking-powder, sugar, candied peel, currants, and nutmeg. ]\Ioisten with the eggs and milk, previously beaten, and work into a moderately consistent dough. Drop in little heaps on to a greased baking-tin by means of fwo forks, so that they are rocky in appearance. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Rice Cakes or Rice Buns {Gateaux de Riz). 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. oi ground rice (fecule de riz), 2 dz. flour (sifted), i teaspoonful baking-powder, 4 eggs. Cream the butter and sugar till very light. Work in the eggs, then add the ground rice, flour, and baking-jtowder. A little grated lemon-rind or essence of vanilla may be added if liked. Beat the mixture for ten minutes. Drop the dough by means of a spoon or a Savoy bag into buttered patty-pans or tartlet-moulds, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for twenty minutes.PASTRY AND CONFECTIONEin-. 93 Soupirs {Mcrini^Hcd Cakes). Prepare a Savov or Genoese cake inixlnre. Fill uj) little bouclie moulds, buttered, bake them, and let eool. Dress the to]> ol each with a layer of apricot jam, and meringue mixture shaped to a pyramid. Set in the oven, then dij) in white or ])ink fondant icing (see p. 138). Savoy Cake {Gateau dc Savoie). 7 large or 8 small eggs, I lb. Vienna Hour (sifted and dried), t lb. loaf sugar, I lemon. Break the eggs into a basin and beat up with a whisk till creamy. Add the Irnely chojrped rind of lemon. Boil the sugar with lemon- juice and a little water to a thick syrup, and stir hot into the whisked eggs. Beat the mixture for at least ten minutes longer. Lastly work in the Hour by degrees. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered and sugar-dredged Savoy mould, and bake in a moderate o\'en for about thirty-five minutes. Chess Cakes {Gateaux Damier). Prepare a Genoese cake mixture (see p. 93b), and bake it in several sciuare-shaped moulds. When baked, put them on a sieve and let cool. Cut them tlirough crossways and spread with chocolate or custard cream. Place together again, mask the sides with apricot marmalade, and cover with ('hips or shreds of roasted almonds. Decorate the top with royal icing forced out in lines to make scpuires in lattice-work style, h'ill the scpiares alternateh' with white and chocolate fondant icing, so that the surface resembles a chessboard. Serve with a boat of vanilla custard.932 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Orange Cake {Gdtcaii a 1'Orange). Separate eight eggs, beat up the whites and yolks separately. Stir half a pound of castor sugar into the yolks. Mi.\ fonr ounces Vienna flour and four ounces cornflour, with one half-pound butter. Beat up the egg-whites as stiff as possible, and gradually add to the sugar and the egg-yolks. When all is beaten, stir in the flour, and when only half mixed pour in the butter (melted) hot. Beat till quite smooth, then pour into two well buttered flat cake-tins, and bake in a fairly hot oven. When cold, cut in half through the centre, spread the cut sides with orange-flavoured custard. Place together and mask with orange-flavoured icing (see p. 138). Decorate tastefully with slices of candied tangerines and royal icing. Seed Cake [Gdteau Carvi). I lb. l)utter, 1 11). castor sugar, 6 eggs, i to 2 oz. caraway seeds (cleaned), lb. flour (sifted). Warm the butter in a basin, add the sugar, and work up to a ligld cream, and stir in the eggs one by one. Mix in the caraway seeds, and lastly the flour. Bake in an oblong, well-buttered and banded cake tin for thirty-five to forty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Soda Cake. I lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, 4 oz. currants or sultanas, 2 oz. almonds, :J lb. castor or Demarara sugar, i teaspoonful carbonate of soda, I teaspoonful cream of tartar, 4 eggs, about 3 pint milk, a pinch of salt, nutmeg. Rub the butter into the flour and blend well, then add the salt, a ])inch of grated nutmeg, the sugar, and currants or sultanas, previously cleaned. Mix well, beat up the eggs ; dissolve the cream of tartar and carbonate of soda in a little milk. Mix the eggs with the milk and stir into the flour, etc. Beat well for ten minutes, put the mixture in one or two well-buttered cake-tins, bake in a moderately-heated oven from thirty to forty minutes or longer, according to size and shape of tins. Turn out on a sieve, cool, and dust over with sugar. Gateau Victoria. Prepare a Genoese cake mixture (see p. 936) flavoured with vanilla, and bake in a well-buttered and floured flat round cake - tin. When baked, let it cool on a sieve, then cut it into four or live sec- tions. Spread each section with a light almond cream mixed with a little grated chocolate. Place the layers together, mask the top with a fondant or transparent icing (see p. 138), and sprinkle over with desiccated cocoannt or strips of almond.PASTRY AND CONFECTrONEPY Biscuits roules a la Suisse (Small Swiss Rolls). Sift four ounces of Hour and warm it. Cream four ounces of butter with four ounces of sugar, adding four eggs, and beat for tweuty minutes ; ifavour with vanilla essence, stir in liglitl}^ the hour, and spread on to a buttered baking-sheet. Bake in a mode- rate oven for about fifteen minutes. Divide the pastry into eight or ten even portions, spread over each with dissolved raspberry or apricot jam, and roll np quickly. Dredge with sugar, let cool, and dish up. Galettes a la Lorraine. Sift one pound of Hour on to a board, make a well in the centre, and put in one ounce of castor sugar, a good jhnch of salt, two eggs, and eight ounces of warmed butter. Mi.x carefully and work into a smooth dough, kneading it thoroughl}^ then make it up into a ball, hatten it with your hand, cut it across in lozenge shapes, pinching up the edges, bru.sh over with beaten egg, and bake for about half an hour. Gateau au Moka (Mocha or Coffee Cake). 4 eggs, I lb. castor sugar, 2 oz. \’ienna flour. 2 oz. potato flour, i tcaspoonful Royal baking-powder, coffee butter icing (see p. 139). Beat the yolks of the eggs with the castor sugar, adding the hour and baking-powder gradually, beat till a smooth cream, then stir in lightly the four whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Butter a plain mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for thirty m i n u t e s . When done, turn it out, a n d w h e n quite cold cut it through the centre and spread with coffee-havour- e d custard. Place together again and coat it completely with coffee or chocolate icing, then decorate to taste with coffee butter icing forced through a Savoy bag with a fancy icing tube, as shown in the illustration. Note.—Instead of coating the cake with butter icing, use choco- late or coffee fondant icing (see p. 138), and decorate with butter icing ; this will be found a great improvement.9M THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Gateau des Dames {Lady Cake). 12 oz. castor sugar, lo oz. butter. 6 oz. ground almonds, 8 whites of eggs, 12 oz. flour, I small glass of rum, fondant icing (see p. 138) or royal icing. Cream the sugar with the butter, add the almonds and the rum. Wliisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and sift the flour, add both gradually to the above. Fill into one or two buttered flat cake-tins, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When cold, mask the top and sides with fondant icing and decorate with royal icing—i.c. glace royale—according to taste. Note.—During the process of baking the oven should be opened as little as possible. Imperiales. Split a flat Genoese cake in two crossways, spread over the cut side with pineapple jam, previously warmed. Sandwich together, and mask over the surface with white or coloured fondant icing. Cut the pastry into diamond or crescent-shaped pieces ; put them on a baking-sheet and allow the icing to set at the front of the oven. Decorate according to taste and fancy with royal icing and glace cherries and angelica. French Tea Biscuits. 12 oz. flour (sifted), 3 yolks of eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. butter, orange- flower water, granulated sugar, shredded almonds or pistachios, royal icing. Put the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre, put in the yolks of eggs, sugar and butter, and work into a smooth paste by means of a few drops of milk and orange-flower water. The paste when finished should be in appearance and consistency the same as short-crust paste. Roll out about a quarter of an inch thick and stamp out some rounds or ovals according to taste and fancy. Place these on a greased baking-tin. Spread each with a thin layer of icing to which a little orange-flower water has been added, strew over with chopped pistachio nut or almonds, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. As they come out of the oven, brush over with liquid icing, which will set as the biscuits get cool. Afternoon Tea Cakes. i lb. flour, I oz. Brown & Poison’s patent cornflour, 3 oz. castor sugar, I egg, |- gill milk, ] teaspoonful lemon essence, J teaspoonful Royal baking- powder, 2 oz. sultanas, i oz. finely-cut orange peel, 4 oz. butter. Sift the cornflour and baking-powder and mix with the flour. Cream the butter, sugar, and eggs, clean the sultanas, add them with the peel to the mixture. Stir in the milk and beat up for several minutes, then add the lemon essence. The mixture should be similar in texture to an ordinary cake dough. A little more milk may be added if found necessary. Three-parts fill some buttered madeleine or tartlet tins with the mixture, brush the tops with milk, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty-five minutes.935 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Milk Scones. 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. Initter, i oz. castor sugar, i teaspoonful cream of tartar, teaspoonful carbonate of soda or i oz. of Paisley flour, i oz. sultanas or currants, -5- pint milk. Sift the flour into a basin and rub in the butter till thoroughly mixed ; add the sugar, also the cream of tartar and carbonate of soda, or in their place the Paisley Hour. Pour in the milk and mix (juickly into a smooth dough. Ilivide it into four portions, sha] e each into a round Hat cake ; place them on a greased or Houred baking-sheet, cut into quarters, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Brush them o\’er quickly with sweetened milk and return to the oven for anotlier ten minutes. Scotch Scones. T2 OZ. best flour, 2 oz. fine oatmeal, i oz. ground rice (creme de riz), -h tea- spoonful carbonate soda, i teaspoonful cream of tartar, J gill milk, i egg, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, a saltspoonful salt. Dry the flour, sift it into a basin, add the salt and rub in the butter with the oatmeal and ground rice ; now add the sugar, soda, and cream of tartar. Mix with the egg and milk, and work quickly into a stiff dough. Make up into three-cornered shapes. Place them on a greased baking-tin and bake in a quick oven for half an hour ; when half done, brush over with yolk of egg diluted with a little milk ; return to the oven and bake a nice golden ('olour. Small Cream Scones. 10 oz. flour (sifted), 3 oz. butter, 2 teaspoonfuls Royal baking-powder, i-J- gill milk, r gill cream. Put the Hour into a basin and rub in the butter, then add the baking-powder and a pinch of salt (if liked sweet, add a little castor sugar). Stir in gradually the milk and mix with a fork ; lastly add the cream, and work—i.e. knead—into a smooth paste. Roll cut on a floured board, about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out with a round (2-inch) cutter. Place the rounds on a greased baking- tin, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. When nearly done, brush over with sweetened milk, return to the oven, and finish baking. Bath Buns. Prepare a brioche paste as directed on p. 137, work in two more eggs, also two ounces of finely shredded orange and citron peel. Shape into even-sized buns and place them on a floured baking-tin. Allow them to rise in a warm place ; when sufficiently risen, wash o\’er with egg-yolk and milk. Sprinkle over some granulated sugar and caraway comfits. Bake in a hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Meringues {Shells). J lb. sifted castor sugar, 6 whites of eggs, a pinch of salt. Whisk the whites of eggs (adding a pinch of salt) in a copper egg-bowl until they represent a very stiff froth ; mix lightly with the sugar ; be careful not to stir the mi.xture too much, otherwise it will become too soft for shaping. The preparation is then readvTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. for moulding the desired shapes of meringues ; this may be effected with a dessert or tablespoon, or with a cornet or piping-bag. Place some foolscap paper on a baking-sheet or on a baking-board, shape the meringues on it in rows, keep them about an inch apart from each other, dust them .with sifted sugar, place them in a very moderate or cool oven for about two hours. When done, take up each meringue, break in the bottom carefully with the thumb, put back on the baking-sheet, and allow them to dry overnight in a warm place. Meringues au Citron {Lemon Meringues). Proceed as before, add the rind of half a lemon finely chopped and mixed with the sugar ; when baked, cool, fill with whipped cream slightly sweetened. Meringues aux Amandes {Almond Meringues). Proceed as before, adding a quarter of a pound of peeled, dried, and pounded almonds to the sugar, and proceed as previously described. Meringues aux Pistaches {l^istachio Meringues). A quarter of a pound of pistachio kernels, peeled, dried, and pounded with two whites of eggs ; make a stiff froth of five whites of eggs, and mix with a quarter of a pound of sugar ; whisk all over the fire until it becomes cold, then add the pistachios, and mix carefully. Shape the meringues, and bake. If liked, two ounces of ground almonds and two ounces of pistachios may be used in ])lace of the four ounces of pistachios. Genoese Cake {Gateau Genoise). 6 eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. Hour, the thin rind of a lemon finely chopped or grated. Break the eggs into a basin or into a copper egg-bowl ; beat up with a whisk and add the sugar ; whisk these together over a stew- pan of boiling water for about fifteen minutes till it appears like a thick cream, then stir in by degrees the flour (sifted) and the butter (melted) ; lastly add the lemon-rind ; pour this mixture into a well-buttered saute-pan or fiat cake-tin, and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-five to thirty minntes.- Turn out, let cool, and use as required. Genoise au Chocolat {Chocolate Genoese). Prepare the same mixture as given for plain Genoese, but incor- porate with the yolks and sugar two ounces of ground almonds and one ounce of grated chocolate. Genoise au Cafe {Coffee Genoese). Add a dessertspoonful of best coffee extract with the yolks of eggs and sugar, and prepare the same mixture with the given ingredients as for Genoese. Genoise decoree {Fancy Genoese Cakes). Prepare the Genoese mixtirre (adding any desired flavour), and pnt it into a square buttered baking-sheet, with the sides turnedPASTRY AND CONFECTTONERV. 037 up all round. Bake it in a quick oven to a nice pale br(uvn colour : when cold, cut it into fancy or plain shapt's, then ice them with different-coloured fondant or royal icinp (glace royale) ; when the icing is set, ornament with apple and red-currant jelly. Biscuits d’Epernay, t lb. castor sugar, 7 eggs, 4 oz, sifted Hour, the grated rind of i a lemon, I oz, of ground almonds, 2 oz, butter. Put the sugar into a basin, stir in the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, and beat ttntil it resembles a thick cream ; stir in half the flonr, the lemon-rind, and almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, melt the bntter, work in gently the whites of eggs, the remainder of the flour, and the melted butter. The mixing inust be done very carefully, so as to retain as much as possible the frothy consistency of the wdiites of eggs. Three-parts till some well- buttered and floured biscuit tins. Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Sponge Cakes. 6 oz, flour, 6 oz, castor sugar, 6 yolks and 5 whites of eggs, ] to gill milk. Sift the flour and dry it ; cream the sugar and egg-yolks, and beat or whisk for at least twenty minutes ; now add the milk and the flour, stir in previously the whites of eggs whisked to a stiff froth ; work in the latter very lightly and by degrees. Three-parts All some well-buttered and sugared or floured sponge-cake tins. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about thirtv minutes. Sponge Fingers. Prepare a mixture as for sponge cakes, as directed in the fore- going recipe, put it into a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and force out even-sized and even-shaped fingers on to a greased baking- sheet (or fill the mixture into slightly buttered and floured finger biscuit tins). Dredge them with castor sugar and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Pain d’Epice {French Gingerbread). lb. flour, t lb. ground rice, oz. baking-powder, i oz. ginger (ground). 8 oz. honey or treacle, i gill milk, i egg, 4 oz. ground almonds, 6 oz. bntter, I lemon, i saltspoonful grated nutmeg, i saltspoonful ground clove. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and ground rice, and mix together. Pnt the honey or treacle and butter in a warm jar, and put in a warm place until the butter is dissolved. Peel the lemou thinly, and chop the rind finely. Stir the liquids with the beaten egg inbt the flour, add the chopped lemon-rind, ground almonds, ginger, nntmeg, and cloves. Beat for fully twenty minutes. Form into balls or put the mixture into a well-greased baking- tin, bake in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes, let cool, cut into convenient shapes or slices, and serve. If desired, the cake can be glazed with transparent icing before it is cut up. Tranches a la Neige {Snow Cakes) \ lb. butter, lb. castor sugar, t lb. flour, 2 oz. icing sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds. lemon rind. 4 yoiks of eggs. 5 whites of eggs. Work the butter with the egg-yolks and castor sngar ; add theTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK. 038 flour, beat up three whites of eggs, and mix gently with the mixture. Bake in a flat, oblong buttered tin, whisk the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix with them sugar, ground almonds, and lemon-peel. Spread over the surface thickly, cut into small oblong slices. Shape neatly, and bake quickly a light yellow. Dust with sugar before baking. Fruit jam can be spread thinly over the cake before the meringue (snow) is added. Langues de Chat {Cats’ Tongues). 4 lb. fresh butter, t H’- icing sugar, 5 whites of eggs, 4 oz. flour, vanilla flavouring. Cream the butter and add the sugar, work well for about ten minutes, and incorporate one by one the five whites of eggs. Lastly add the vanilla flavour (about half a teaspoonful) and the flour (sifted). Dress in the form of little tongues (cats’ tongues) on a buttered and floured baking-sheet, and bake in a slack oven. This forms one of the most popular dessert biscuits both here and on the Continent. Champignons {Mushrooms). 4 whites of eggs, a piuch cream of tartar, 6 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz, clrocolate powder, 12 oz. icing sugar, a small quantity of almond paste. Put the whites of eggs into a clean copper bowl or basin, add the cream of tartar, and whisk to a very stiff froth or foam. When firm, gently work in the castor sugar. Put this mixture in a forcing or Savoy bag with a plain tube, force out meringue shapes to the size and form of macaroons {i.e. mushrooms) on to a baking-sheet lined with paper, dredge with chocolate powder, and bake in a very cool oven. For each meringue shape a small stalk {i.e. mushroom stalk) out of almond paste, and dry them in a cool oven. When the meringues are firm, damp the paper, remove the shapes, and glaze the bottom part of each with chocolate icing, made by heating the remainder of chocolate powder with the icing sugar till dissolved ; insert the stalks before the icing has quite set. W’hen cool, dish up, and serve. Pommes de terre {Imitation Potatoes). Prepare a Genoese mixture (see p. 806) and fill up sixteen to twenty rather small oval bouche moulds (buttered). Bake them in a moderate oven, unmould, and let cool on a sieve. Scoop out the centre portion of each (flat side), and fill the cavities with frangipane or confectioner’s custard. Place each two together by fixing a little icing on the edges. Roll out some almond paste and wrap up each shape with it. Give them as near as possible the shape of potatoes, brush lightly with white of egg, and roll in grated chocolate. With a skewer mark in the eyes here and there, and let set on a pastry tray. Gaufres a la Suisse {Swiss Wafers). For wafers : t lb. gromul almonds, J oz. flour, r lb. castor sugar, i whole egg and 2 yolks, 10 drops vanilla essence. For cream filling : 2 whites of eggs, 2 oz. ground almonds, -} teaspoonful ground cinnamon, i tablespoonful cream, a lb, icing sugar. Cream the sugar and eggs together ; when perfectly smoothPASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 030 and creamy, mix with a quarter of a pound of ground almonds, hour, and the vanilla essence. Grease a baking-sheet, and place upon it dessertspoonfuls of the mixture about one and a half inch apart from each other, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. W’hen nearly done, take it out of the oven and wrap each gaufre (luickly round a well-greased cornet or cornucopia tin ; put back into the oven and bake a few seconds longer, then remove from the tins, and place on a sieve to cool. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in gradually the ground almonds, cinnamon, icing sugar, and about a tablespoonful of whipped cream, put this mixture in a forcing-bag, and hll the cornets or the gaufres with it. Lay them on a baking-tin and put in a cool oven long enough to set the hlling. Serve hot or cold. Note.—If preferred, the gaufres can be filled with whipped cream, slightly sweetened with vanilla sugar. In this case they should be served cold. Gaufres a la Vanille {Vanilla Wajers). i- lb. flour (sifted). 3 oz. castor sugar, V teasjroonful vanilla essence, 3 eggs, 3 oz. butter, vanilla sugar. Put the flour and sugar into a basin, mix well, and stir in the eggs one by one. Melt the butter in half a gill of water, and add this to the mixture. Beat up to a light batter and fiavour with the vanilla essence ; a little milk may be added if found necessary ; the batter should be slightly thicker than ordinary pancake batter. Heat the wafer irons or wafer tongs, butter the inside sur- faces; put in a tablespoonful of the batter, close up the tongs. Put the iron imme- diately on a bright fire, coal, coke or char- coal, and bake, turning the iron or tongs frequently to ensure the wafer being of even colour, which should be golden. W'hen done, scrape the outside of the tongs, remove the wafer, and roll quickly on an oiled stick or leave flat, as desired. Continue thus till the batter is used up. Dredge the wafers with vanilla sugar, and g.wfre iron or \v.\fkr serve hot or cold. tongs. Cornets Genevoise [Geneva Cornets). tJ oz. fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, i oz. flour (sifted), 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar, 6 drops of vanilla essence, gill milk, 3 tablespoonfnls rasp- beny or strawberry jam, J gill cream. Cream the butter with the sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs and the vanilla essence. When well beaten, add the milk and the flour. Have ready a well-buttered baking sheet ; drop the mixture iu dessertspoonfuls about two inches apart, and bake in040 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. a moderately heated oven. When of a pale brown colour, take out and twist quickly, cut carefully into cornet shapes, or roll them on greased cornucopia tins, so as to shape them more evenly. Put about a teaspoonful of jam in each, and fill up with whipped and sweetened cream. Queen Cakes. ;J- lb. butter, lb. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. currants (cleaned), 2 oz. glace cherries (cut in dice), a grate of nutmeg, the thin rind of ^ a lemon (chopped finely), the juice of i lemon, J tablespoonful brandy, lb. Vienna liour, I oz. Paisley flour. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and work with a wooden spoon to a cream, add the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture thoroughly until it resembles a light sponge. Mix in a separate basin the fruit, lemon-rind, and the Vienna and Paisley flour. Stir this into the beaten eggs, etc., then add the nutmeg, lemon- juice (strained), and the brandy. Stir the mixture for several minutes longer. Have ready some buttered and floured queen- cake tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Unmould the cakes and place them on a sieve to cool. These cakes may be coated with chocolate icing, water icing or royal icing, or served plain, according to taste. Gateau a la Portugaise {PoHuguese Cake). ;j- lb. almonds (peeled), orange, ^ lb. castor sugar, 3 whole eggs, i oz. fecule, glace royale, crystallised cherries, and angelica. Cream the sugar and yolks of eggs in a basin, pound the almonds in a mortar, incorporate the juice of oranges and peelings finely chopped. Work well in the mortar for a few minutes ; work this mixture in with the sugar and yolks of eggs, and add the fecule. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gently with the mixture, and fill into an oblong mould well buttered ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Turn out on a sieve to cool, glaze neatly with a coating of glace royale, ornament with crystallised cherries and angelica. Serve whole or cut into slices. Gateau de Paques [French Easter Cake). For crust : lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, 2 yolks of eggs; a pinch of salt. For filling : 3 oz. rice cooked in milk, 6 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds (browned in the oven), 4 gill cream, fondant icing, vanilla flavouring. Sift the flour, rub in the butter till quite fine, then add the salt and work into a smooth but fairly stiff paste with the two egg-yolks and a little water. Roll out the paste and line two con- venient-sized flan-rings, and prick the bottoms of the paste with a fork. Cream the six egg-yolks with the sugar, add the vanilla flavouring, and stir in the cooked rice and the almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs and the cream separately, incorporate both into the mixture. Fill up the lined flan or pastry rings with this, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Allow to cool, then remove the rings and cover the surface of the gateau with fondant icing.PASTRY AND CUNFRCTIONER\ . 941 Denises aiix Amandes (Pruslcd Aluioiui Sand-wichcs). Kull out sonic puff-paste about a cpuirter of an inch thick. Cut it into two long strips about three inches wide. Place one of them on a w'ctted baking-tin ; prick the paste with a fork and spread with a thin layer of raspberry or apricot jam ; upon this spread a layer of cheese-cake mixture. Place the other half of pastry carefully u})on this, close up the edges with a paste-pincher ; brush over with milk, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Meanwhile beat up to a stiff froth one white of egg, add a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, and spread it over the pastry as soon as it has cooled a little. Sprinkle over with blanched and shredded almonds, divide into portions of about one and a half inch wide ; return to the oven and bake for another ten minutes. Talmouses a I’Abricot. Pate d’office (see p. 134), apricot jam, -} lb. choux-paste (see p. 135), i egg. Roll out thinly some “pate d’oftrce ” or “ pate a seche,” and cut out some rounds with a paste-cutter about four inches wide. Place a teas])oonful of apricot jam in the centre of each round, dilute a quarter of a pound of choux-paste with a little rich custard (creme pithivier), spread this thickly over the round pieces, leaving a little space free at the edges ; wet the edges with beaten egg ; fold the paste over on three sides to give it the shape of a three- cornered hat, place on a baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven. When nearly done, brush over with boiled sugar (same as for trans- parent icing, see p. 138), place half a glace cherry on each, and finish baking. Serve cold. Petits Gateaux Pithivier. ]- lb. almonds (peeled), lb. castor sugar, a few sprigs crystallised orange- flowers, I tablespoonful of cream, | lb. fresh butter, i teaspoonful chopped lemon-peel, i whole and 2 whites of eggs, about lb. puff-paste. Pound the almonds in a mortar together with the orange-llowers ; when quite fine, add the cream, lemon-peel, and two whites of eggs. Put the sugar into a basin, cream the butter with the sugar, add the whole egg, and work until thoroughly incorporated ; now add the pounded almonds and work until smooth. Roll out the puff-paste, stamp out some rounds about three and a half inches in diameter, stamp out rings of paste three-quarters of an inch wide and fix on the rounds to form the border ; fill with the mixture ; place a few strips of paste crosswise, bake in a moderate oven, when nearly done dust with sugar, and finish baking. Dartois aux Abricots meringues. Roll out some puff-paste (see p. 133) about three inches wide, trim off the edges, place it on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minntes. Spread with warm apricot marmalade ; have ready a meringue mixture, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, force out in the shape of ribbons across the layer of marmalade, so as to form a lattice-work pattern. Dredge with sugar, place halves of glace cherries and small pieces of angelica alternately in the centre942 THE NEW CENTURY CUOKERY BOOK. of the patterns. Bake in a cool oven for ten niinntes, jnst long enough to dry, cut into convenient linger shapes, and serve cold. Gateau St. Honore {St. Honore Cake). I’uft-paste or pate d’officc, pate a choux, creme St. Honore, glace fruits for decoration. Roll out some puff-paste or pate d’office about a quarter of an inch thick; cut out a round piece about eight to ten inches wide and place on a baking sheet ; wet the edge, put in a forcing-bag some previously prepared pate a choux, and press it out round the wet edge to form a border about an inch and a quarter wide and an inch high. Put also a little choux-paste in the centre and spread out, prick the centre, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Make some small balls with the remainder of the choux- paste, put them on a baking-sheet and bake also. Have ready some sugar boiled to the crack, dip the cake balls and the same number of large glace cherries in the ready-prepared sugar ; place them alternately one against the other on the border, and fill up the centre with creme a gateau (see p. 137). Quillets [Small Dessert Tartlets). Line some very small tartlet-monlds with rough puff-paste, lill them with madeleine mixture, dredge with sugar, and bake in a slack oven. Turn them out of the moulds, scoop out the centre partially, and hll the cavities with almond cream. Decorate with whipped cream, and serve. Tartelettes aux Framboises [Raspberry Tartlets). Roll out half a pound rough puff-paste, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet-moulds ; hll with rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Boil up one gill of syrup, put in hall a pound of large picked raspberries, and cook for a few seconds. Flavour with brandy, and let cool. Drain off the syrup and hll the tartlet-cases with the raspberries. Redirce the fruit-.syrup to about half its quantity. Ponr aboift a tablespoonful over each tartlet, and serve when cold. A little desiccated cocoanut or chopped almonds over the tartlets will be found an improvement. Gateau a la Russe [Russian Cake). Prepare a Genoese cake mixture (see p. 93b), divide it into three eqnal parts ; mix one part with one ounce of chocolate, previously melted or grated, and one ])art with a few drops of cochineal or melted liquid carmine, leaving the third part plain. Bake each lot separately in a well-buttered and honred flat cake-tin. When baked, turn on to a wire sieve and let cool. Carefully line a square or oblong bisenit-tin with almond paste (see p. 136). Melt some apricot marmalade, and rnb it through a sieve. Cut the prepared Genoise into even-sized long strips about half an inch thick. Arrange these in alternate colonrs, and place them in layers neatly into the almond- l^aste lined tin. Spread each layer with apricot marmalade, and proceed thus until the tin is filled. Spread a little more marmaladePASTRY AND CON T EC I ION ERY. 943 over the top, and cover with almond jxiste. Let the tin stand in a cool place for about one hour. Unmonld carefully, and cut the shape crosswise into neat slices, according to the thickness desired. Disir nj) tastefully, and serve as a cold dinner sweet or for after- noon tea. As a guide to those who try this recipe, 1 may say that the cake, when cut into slices, should look like parts of a draught-board. Eclairs au Cafe {Coffee Eclairs). 4 pint milk, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. cornflour, 2 oz. Vienna flour, 3 eggs, J tea- spoonful vanilla essence, i oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, coffee or inoka custard for filling, coffee-icing for covering (see p. 138). Put the water, butter, sugar, and salt into a stew-jtan ; when boiling stir in the cornflour and Vienna flour (previously mixed) ; work it with a wooden spoon over the fire long enough to produce a soft paste which will leave the bottom and sides of the pan clean. Draw' the stew-pan from the fii'e, add the flavouring essence, and gradually work in the eggs (leaving out one white). Beat the paste w'dl for some minutes, then put it in a large forcing or Sac'oy bag w'ith a plain tube, and force out even-sized shapes similar to finger biscuits on to a lightly-buttered baking-tin, about an inch aj)art from each other. Bake to a nice fawm colour in a moderate oven. When done and cool, split the sides with a sharp knife, and fill each W'ith a teaspoonful of moka custard. Have some coffee-icing ready, and dipeach eclair into it, so as to cover the sides w’ell and smoothly. Place the eclair on a wire tray to set, and dish up when required. Eclairs au Chocolat {Chocolate Eclairs). Proceed the same as for coffee eclairs, use whipped cream lor hlling, and mask with chocolate icing (see p. 139). Moka or Coffee Custard for filling Eclairs. I gill milk. I oz. loaf sugar, 4 oz. cornlfour, 4 pat ol fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, I teas])oouful coffee essence, a few drops of vanilla essence. Put the milk and sugar in a stew-pan and boil uji. Mix the cornflour w'ith a little cold milk, pour the boiling milk on this, mix thoroughly, return to the stew-pan, and let boil a few' minutes ; add the flavouring essences and the butter, stir in the egg-yolks, continue to stir until it binds, then pour it into a basin and let cool. Gateau Mousseline. 6 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. fecule (potato or rice flour), the juice and rind of 4 lemon, | teaspoonful vanilla essence, i oz. shredded almonds. Separate the yolks of four eggs from the w'hites, put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bow'l, place it on the ice ; add the sugar to the yolks and w'ork to a cream ; beat in the two remaining eggs (w'hole, one at a time), grate the lemon-rind, strain the juice, and add both to the mixture, also the vanilla flavouring. Vdiisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle this and the fecide very carefully w'ith the mixture. Have ready a buttered and floured Genoise mould or flat cake tin. Fill w'ith the mixture, sprinkle the top with the shredded almonds, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to forty minutes.944 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. oven for about twenty minntes. Tea Bretzels. Prepare a paste with three-quarters of a })ound of flour, six ounces of butter, four ounces of castor sugar, two eggs, a little mixed spice, and a pinch of salt ; knead the paste well and set in a cool [dace for an hour. Make it into bretzels by rolling and twisting the paste as shown in the illustration. Put them on to a buttered baking- sheet, brush over with egg and milk, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate Tourte a la Frangipane. lb. short-crust (see p. 133) or puff-paste trimmiugs, 3 oz. flour, 4 yolks of eggs, 4 pint cream or milk, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, i inch cinnamon, I inch of vanilla pod (split), 2 oz. ground almonds, a pinch of salt. Roll out the .paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Place a flan or pastry ring, about six inches in diameter, on a baking-tin, bntter slightly, and line with paste. Notch the edges with the back of a knife, prick the bottom with a fork, and hll with frangipane cream (see p. 137). Bake a golden colour in a moderately heated oven. Dust with castor or icing sugar, and glaze. Serve hot or cold. Canadian Curlers. Cream four ounces of bntter with four ounces of castor sugar ; then add one egg and half a gill of milk, flavoured with half a tea- spoonful of cinnamon ; stir in half a pound of Coombs’ self-raising flour and work into a smooth dough. Roll out about half an inch thick, stamp out with a round cutter ; then cut out a small hole in the centre ; fry in hot clarified butter or lard to a golden colour, drain well, and dredge with sugar. American Sand Cake. Beat half a pound of butter with half a pound of castor sugar ; then add by degrees three eggs, then stir in very gently half a pound of cornflour and one ounce of rice, flour. Have a tin mould well buttered and sprinkled all over with finely-powdered Savoy cake or linger biscuits ; put in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Prussiens or Palmiers. Roll out some puff-paste, dredge it well with castor sugar, and fold as usual. Repeat this twice, then roll up and cut into half-inch thick slices ; place these cut side downwards on to a baking-sheet, and bake a delicate brown. Semelles. Proceed in the same way as above described, but, instead of rolling up the paste at the last stage, roll it out flat, and stamp out some rounds with a fluted two-inch cutter^ then roll them to oblong shapes, place on a baking-tin, brush over with water, dust with castor sugar, and bake to a golden colour. BRETZEL.PASTRY AND CONPECTIONERY. flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, i tablespoonful of orange-flower water, 94 S Tartelettes au Chocolat [Chocolate Tartlets). ■l lb. tartlet paste (see p. 133). i4oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, rasp- berry jam, i l- oz. grated chocolate, 4 teaspoonful cinnamon, i tablcspoonful cornflour. Roll out the paste, and line with it some tartlet-moulds, put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in each. Make the hlling mixture as follows : Cream the sugar with the butter ; when cream}^ add one yolk of egg, the chocolate and cinnamon, beat up the two whites of eggs, and mix together With the cornllour. Fill up the tartlets, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Ice over the top with chocolate icing, and decorate with royal icing (see p. 139). Angel Cake [Gateau d'Anges). 12 whites of eggs, lb. flour, lb. cornllour, i lb. castor sugar, i level teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonfnl vanilla essence. Add a pinch of salt to the whites (jf egg and whisk them to a stiff froth, and work in one-third of the sugar; whisk well for another ten minutes, then add by degrees the remainder of sugar ; also the two kinds of flour, which must be previously sifted and mixed, with the cream of tartar. Lastly add the vanilla essence. Bake in a clean but not buttered angel cake tin in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Turn the mould upside down on to a sugar dredged paper, and allow' it to stand till the cake comes out easil}'. It should not be turned out of the tin till quite cold. Dames d’Honneur [Maids of Honour). 2 oz. of Jordan almonds, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, oz. Paisley puff-paste for lining (see p. 133). Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound W'ith the castor sugar until fine, add the yolks of eggs one by one, stir in the cream, the orange-flower water, and the Paisley flour. Line some tartlet-moulds with the puff-paste, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Tartelettes a la St. Cloud. J lb. short-crust (see p. 133), | lb. puff-paste, 4 lb. greengage jam, -J- gill cream, glace cherries and angelica, vanilla sugar (see p. 139), castor sugar. Roll out the short-crust ; line six to eight tartlet-pans, brush over W’ith beaten egg, dust wdth sugar, fill the centre with greengage jam, previously rubbed through a coarse sieve, and bake in a mode- rate oven for about fifteen minutes. Roll out the puff-paste about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stamp out some rings fully half an inch smaller in diameter than the tartlets, brush these over with milk, turn the w'et side on to castor sugar, and place on to a baking- sheet, sugared sides upwards. Bake in a quick oven, and place a ring on each of the baked tartlets. When cold fill the centre ANGEL CAKE TIN.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 946 with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla sugar. Place a glace cherry in the centre of each, finish with a few strips of cut angelica. Dish up and serve. Tuilles {Dessert Macaroons). Pound three-quarters of a pound of peeled almonds with four ounces of sugar, add the whites of six eggs, and work into a light paste. Flavour w’ith vanilla, and incorporate two or three stiffly- whisked w'hites of eggs. Dress on a buttered baking-sheet like macaroons, with shreds of almonds on top of each. Dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a slack oven. When done place each macaroon on oiled rolling-jflns and let cool. Tartelettes aux Oranges. 2 Jafta or St. Michael or 4 tangerine oranges, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. butter, 3 yolks and i white of eggs, ^ tea.spoonful vanilla essence, about 4 lb. puff-paste (see p. 133). Peel the oranges very thinly, without cutting any of the white })art ; chop the rind finely. Cream the butter and sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs, stir in the vanilla essence, chopped orange- rind, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-juice. Add a pinch of salt to the white of egg, whisk to a stiff froth, and fold into the mixture. Roll out the jiaste, line from eight to ten tartlet-moulds, prick the paste wdth a fork, and three-parts fill them with the mixture. Put them on a baking-tin, bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, then dust with sugar, and finish baking. Turn out, cool, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, Tartelettes a la Parisienne. t lb. of sborf-crusf for bniug (see p. 133), 2 small eggs, i oz. ground almonds, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. fresb butter, i oz. patent cornflour, 2 oz. crusbed cake-crumbs, Geuoi.se or sponge cakes, i dessert.spoonful lemon-juice, t teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Roll out the paste, stamp out into rounds the size of the tartlet- moulds, line these with the paste, and prick with a fork. Cream the butter together with the sugar, work in the eggs gradually, and beat w'ell for some minutes, then add the ground almonds. Moisten the cornflour with the cream, then mix with the above. Now ^Id the cake-crumbs (previously rubbed through a sieve), the lemon-juice, cinnamon, and the ground almonds. Fill the lined tartlet-moulds with this preparation, dredge the top with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Tartelettes aux Amandes {Almond Tartlets). 41b. sbort-crust (see p. 133), ] lb. almonds (ground), lb. castor sugar, oz. cornflour, i oz. butter, a grate of nutmeg, i whole egg and i yolk, 2 table- spoonfuls raspberry or strawberry jam. Roll out the paste about one-fifth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet-moulds or patty- pans. Prick the bottom of each mould with a fork to prevent blisters in baking. Mix the cornflour with one whole and a yolk of egg. Add the sugar and work in the ground almonds, add the nutmeg and butter (| oz. melted), put about half a teaspoonful of947 PA S TR \ ■ A i\D CON FECI ION RR \'. strawberry or raspberry jam in each lined mould, lill np with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven to a golden colour. Tartelettes a la Balmoral. PuH-pastc (see j). 133) for lining lartlet-nioiilds, 2 eggs, 2 oz. glacc cherries, 4 oz. blitter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. fecula or i oz. cornflour, 2 oz, crushed sponge-cakes, 2 oz. lemon peel. Beat the butter and the sugar to a cream, add the egg-yolks one at a time ; chop the cherries and peel very small, then acid to the mixture, and beat together with the powdered sponge-cakes. Line the tartlet-moulds with puff-paste. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this with the cornilonr carefully into the mixture ; hll np the lined tartlet-moulds (not (juite full), dust with sugar, place them on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven from twenty to twenty-hve minutes. Granville Tartlets. 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. currants, i oz. ground rice, 2 whites of eggs, i oz. candied peel, 3 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sponge-cake crumbs, |- lb. puff-paste, a little water icing, 5 drops oi lemon essence, i tablespoonful cream, i oz. dessert cocoanut. Cream the butter and sugar until perfectly smooth, add the ground rice and cake-crumbs, chop the peel finely, and add, together with the currants, cream, and flavouring essence. Beat up the whites and amalgamate. Roll out the paste, cut out some rounds, and line eight to ten small oval tartlet-moulds ; put each in a table- spoonful of the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. ]\Iask the top of each with water icing or fonckint icing, besprinkle with desiccated cocoanut, and serve. Clarence Tartlets. 2 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar 6 oz. fresh butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, orange flavouring, crystallised cherries, puff-pa.ste. Line a dozen tartlet-moulds with puff-paste trimmings. Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream, add a pinch of grated nutmeg and a few drops of orange flavouring essence. Dissolve the butter and stir into the mixture ; three-parts hll the tartlets. Place them on a baking-sheet and bake to a delicate brown in a moderate oven. When done, put a crystallised cherry in the centre of each, and ornament round with a few fancifully-cnt pieces of angelica. Tartelettes a la St. Denis. 6 oz. Vienna flour, 4 oz. butter, 3 eggs, i tablespoonful milk, 4 oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, raspberry jam, 2 oz. ground almonds, i tablespoonful cornflour, vanilla essence. Prepare a short-crust paste with the flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of castor sugar, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Roll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out into rounds and line ten or twelve tartlet-monlds, and put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in the centre of each. Put two ounces of butter in a basin, cream it with two ounces of castor sugar ; when well worked, add the ground almonds, cornflour, and two yolks of eggs ; beat the white of one egg to a froth, and mix with the butter, sugar, etc. ; flavour the mixture, and hll the lined tartlet-moulds. Place two thin948 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. strips of paste crosswise on each tartlet, dredge with castor sugar and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cheese Cakes. 4 eggs, 2 lemons, i lb. sugar, 4 oz. butter, rough puff-paste. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and work to a cream ; then add the grated rind of one lemon, the juice of two lemons, and the butter previously melted. Place the basin in a stew-pan containing boiling water, add the whisked whites of twi) eggs to it, and stir the mixture until it thickens, and allow it to cool. Line some tartlet-tins with a good rough puff-paste made with eight ounces of butter and three-quarters of a pound of flour, etc. Three-parts fill them with the prepared mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Brush them over with beaten whites of egg, dredge with castor sugar, and return to the oven for another five minutes to acquire a fawn colour. An ounce of ground almonds added to the mixture will be found a great improvement. Shortbread. 1 lb. Vienna flour, lb. ground rice, I- lb. cornflour, lb. butter, 2 eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, lemon peel, and caraway comfits. Mix the flour, ground rice, and cornflour in a basin, rub in the butter, beat up the eggs with the sugar, and work it gradually into the flour, etc. ; knead well into a smooth but compact paste. Divide into desired portions and shape into round flat cakes. Place on a baking-sheet and pinch the edges of the cakes with the thumb and forefinger or with a pastry pincher. Garnish the tops of each with fancifully-cut thin slices of lemon peel and caraway comfits. Bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Dominoes. Genoese pastry, -} lb. icing sugar, i white of egg, apricot marmalade, desiccated cocoanut or almonds, brown vegetable colouring. Cut the pastry into shapes of dominoes, coat the sides with a thin layer of marmalade, and dip into finely chopped desiccated cocoanut or almonds. Prepare some royal icing with the white of egg and sugar, and coat the top of each domino with this. Put them aside to set. Add sufficient ground chocolate to the remainder of the icing, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet. Mark out a thin dividing line across the centre of each, and force out little dots to make them resemble dominoes. Madeleines d’Espagne. , Prepare a mixture as for “ Biscuits d’Epernay ” (see p. 937), to which finely grated lemon-rind has been added. Fill up the re- (juired number of buttered and floured madeleine-moulds, and bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Unmould, let cool on a tray or sieve, dip the surface in transparent icing previously flavoured with a tablespoonful of rum or maraschino, and decorate with glace cherries and angelica.949 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Milanais [Milanese Dessert Biscuits). 1 lb. butter, \ lb. castor suf'ar, lb. Hour (sifted), 5 yolks of eggs, J lemou- riiid (grated), glace cherries and angelica, and strips of almonds for decoration. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, stir in the egg-yolks and work with a spatula t>r spoon for ten minutes ; add the lemou-riud and work in the flour. Put the paste on the ice for an hour, then roll out a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp out into fancy shapes, ronnds, crescents, stars, etc., with a biscuit-cutter. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg-yolk, ornament with glace fruit and almonds, and bake for hfteen minutes. Biscuits de Bordeaux (IVi/ie Biscuits). 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar, 8 oz. Hour, i egg, i teaspoonful orange- juice. I small glass old jiort wine, a pinch of salt, ground cinnamon. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the egg and Hour and the other ingredients, knead into a firm paste, roll out, on a Ihmred board, about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut out some oblong pieces two inches long by three-cpiarters of an inch wide, jdace them on a llonred baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake for about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Ginger Cake. i lb. butler, j- lb. castor sugar, yolks of 6 eggs, -J lb. Hour, i oz. ground ginger, ;j- teaspoonful lemon essence, j gill of milk (more or less), a tea- spoonful Royal baking-powder. Cream the butter, sugar, yolks, ginger, and essence together, then add the milk ; mi.x it in, then add the flonr with the baking- powder, and finish mi.xing, adding the milk as needed. Bake in buttered and paper-lined tins in a hot oven. Before baking, brush over the top with water and dredge with castor sugar. Gingerbread Cake. I oz. Paisley flour, 8 oz, onlinary flour, 2 oz. butter or lard, i oz. treacle. 3 oz. brown sugar, 2 eggs, i gill milk, i teaspoonful each of ground ginger, cinnamon, and mixed spice, i oz. candied peel, i oz. almonds, a ])inch of salt. Butter a one-pound cake-tin or two half-pound cake-tins. Blanch the almonds, and cut the peel into small pieces. Melt the treacle, sugar, and lard together. l\Ii.x the flour, spices, almonds, peel, and salt well together in a bowl, make a hole in the centre, pour in the melted treacle, etc., and stir well, add the beaten eggs, sufficient milk to make a soft batter, and beat well. Mix in the Paisley flour lightly, and pour at once into a buttered cake-tin. Bake in a moderately hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour. When baked, take out of the tin and allow to cool on a wire tray. Scotch Gingerbread. lb. flour, :j- lb. oatmeal, 8 oz. butter, i oz. ground ginger, 4 oz. shredded lemon peel. 12 oz. treacle. ?, gill cream. Ifeat the butter to a cream, mix with it the flour, oatmeal, and cream. Stir in the treacle, ginger, and the lemon peel cut into very fine shreds. Wmrk the whole into a light dough. Put it iu a well-greased tin and bake for forty-five minutes.950 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Lemon Cake. 4 oz. Brown & Poison’s cornllonr, 1 oz. Paisley flour, 4 oz. castor sugar 4 eggs, grated rind of a lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes, or till thick and creamy. Sift in the cornflour very lightly and gradually. Add the lemon-rind and Paisley flour. Pour into the prepared cake-tin, buttered and lioured, and bake in a hot oven for about an hour. Cool on a wire tray. Paisley Rolls. i:J OZ. Paisley flour, 8 oz. ordinary flour, i yolk of egg, I- teaspoonfnl castor sugar, 2 oz, butter. J- teaspoonfnl sail, i gill sweet milk. Rub the butter into the flour. Add the salt, sugar, and Paisley flour. Mix thoroughly. Beat up the yolk of egg, add it to the milk, and mix in liglitly to the dry ingreclients, making a moderately soft dough. Turn this on to a floured board, roll out till about one- eighth of an inch thick, cut into pieces about four inches square, roll these up into rolls, brush over with milk, and bake in a very quick oven for about twenty minutes. Croissants [Crescents). 8 oz. ground rice, 8 oz. castor sugar, 8 eggs, flavouring essence. Mix the flour and sugar together and sift. Beat the whites and yolks separately, then beat again to a cream, using np the sugar and flour. Flavour with vanilla or almond essence. Mix well and spread thinly on a paper-lined baking-sheet ; bake for twenty minutes. Cut with a crescent-cutter iuto cakes, ice each with fondant or royal icing. Decorate with glace fruit according to taste and fancy, and set in the oven for a few minutes to dry. The icing may be of different colours and flavonrs. Lemon Jumbles. Cream ^ lb. castor sugar with lb. fresh butter ; add four eggs beaten to a froth, the hnely grated rind of half a lemon, and a little rose-water. Work in about f lb. flour to make a stiff dough, and roll out about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut in strips half an inch wide and four inches long. Roll each, and form into an S or ring by joining the ends. Lay on flat buttered tins and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Ginger Nuts. 4 oz. butter, .4 oz. moist stigar, 4 oz. flour, i tablespoonful ground ginger, I teaspoonful ground cloves, i teaspoonfnl ground cinnamon, the grated rind of -J a lemon, 11- gill of treacle or golden syrup. Cream the butter and sugar, rub in the flour, spices, and lemon- rind, then the treacle or golden syrup. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon, and make into a fairly stiff dough ; roll into a sheet half an inch thick. Cut into rounds one inch in diameter or shape into round balls and flatten each a little, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Rice Biscuits. i II). best Hour, 4 oz. ground rice, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, } lemon,- I egg, a little mdk.951 PASTRY ANT) CONFECTIONERY. Sift the Hour and ground rice into a basin ; rub in the butter. Now add the sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon and mi.\ thoroughly. Mix the egg with about half a gill of milk ; stir this gradually into the above, and work to a smooth dough or paste. Roll out on a floured board about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut out into fingers, rings or rounds by means of a paste-cutter ; place them on a slightly-greased baking-tin, brush over carefully with sweetened milk, and bake in a hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Shrewsbury Biscuits. I 11). butter, I lb. castor sugar, i whole egg ami i yolk, J ih, ground rice, I lb. \’ienna flour, the rind of i lemon finely grated. Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs one by one, and beat together until light. \\k>rk in the grated lemon-rind, stir in the ground rice and Hour, previously sifted. Roll out very thinly, stamp out into rounds it- to 2 inches in diameter. Place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a moderately heated oven to a golden colour. Almond Macaroons. I lb. almonds (peeled and dried), 2 11). castor sugar, 2 oz. ground rice, 8 whites of eggs. Pound the almonds in a mortar, add gradually the whites of eggs. When finely pounded and smooth add the sugar ; continue to work the mixture till it is cream}" and light. Then lay out the mixture in little heaps on wafer or rice paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Cocoanut Macaroons. Beat up four eggs with half a jtound of fine castor sugar. When stiff enough, add four ounces of finely desiccated cocoanut and a few drops of vanilla essence. Sift in lialf a pound best flour, work well, and put the mixture into a Savoy bag with a plain tube. Force out little even-sized rounds on to sheets of rice or wafer paper placed on a baking-sheet. The rounds should be in little heaps about an inch and a half in diameter, or the size of half-a-crown. Dredge with fine sugar and bake in a fairly hot oven for twenty minutes. Chocolate Macaroons. Prepare an almond macaroon mixture and add to it two ounces of grated chocolate and two more whites of eggs. IMake up into even-sized macaroon shapes on to a wafer-lined baking-sheet. Sprinkle the top with chopjied almonds, and bake in a fairly slack oven. Biscuits au Citron [Lemon Biscuits). 3 eggs, I lb. castor sugar, h lemon rind (grated). \ lb. flour (sifted). Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, cream the egg-yolks with the sugar, and add the lemon-rind. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this together with the flour into the above. Roll out and cut into fancy shapes with a biscuit-cutter. Dress on a waxed or greased baking-tin, brush over with milk, dredge with castor sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about a*quarter of aiPhour.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 952 Lemon Rings. 2 eggs, double their weight in flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 lemon. 1 oz. ground almonds. Sift the flour into a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and rub in the butter. Beat one whole and one yolk of egg and the sugar to a cream and mix with the flour, etc. Add the almonds and the grated rind of the lemon, add also half the strained iuice of the lemon. Roll out, on a floured board, about a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp out some rings the desired size (this is best done by means of a couple of paste-cutters of different sizes), place the rings on a gi'eased baking-tin, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Duchesses [Dessert Biscuits). 12 oz. butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, i oz. ground almonds, i teaspoonful ground cinnamon, \ orange-rind (grated), i lb. flour (sifted), royal icing. Warm the butter in a basin, add the sugar, beat up to a cream, work the eggs one by one in the almonds, cinnamon, and orange- rind. Beat well for ten minutes, then add the flour. Put the mix- ture in a Savoy bag with a fancy tube, and force out three to four rows, close together, the whole length of a greased baking-tin ; continue thus till the tin is full. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about thirty minutes. Mix the royal icing with the juice of half an orange and ice the pastry whilst hot. Return to a cool oven for ten minutes. When cold enough, cut into desired sized pieces. Almond Rings. Prepare a paste similar to that used for almond biscuits (see p. 951), roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut out into rings by means of two paste-cutters. Range the rings on a buttered baking- tin, lined with wafer or rice paper, brush over with egg and milk, and besprinkle with chopped almonds. Bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Palets de Dames (Dessert Biscuits). t lb. flour (sifted), -J- pint cream, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, \ tea- spoonful vanilla essence. Whip the cream, stir in the flour, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and incorporate with the sugar. Mix both together very carefully, and add the vanilla flavouring. Put the mixture in a Savoy bag and force out round shapes, the size of half-a-crown, on to a waxed or greased tin. Dust with icing sugar. Bake in a slow oven at first, and finish in a quicker heat. Princesses [Dessert Biscuits). 2 eggs, lemon-rind (grated), 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, } lb. flour (sifted), transparent icing (see p. 138). Beat up the eggs, cream the butter with the sugar, and mix the eggs with the latter. Add the lemon-rind, and work in the flour. Fill into a Savoy bag with a star tube, and force out oblong strips of even size on to a waxed baking-tin. Bake in moderate heat, and mask or glaze with transparent icing.953 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Brandy Biscuits [Biscuits dc Cognac). I lb. flour, 2 whites ot eggs, gill cream, i small glass brandy, 11, oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt, i tablespoonful milk. Sift the tlour on to a board, make a well, add the salt and sugar ; mix a tablespoonfnl of milk with the whites of eggs, and work into the flonr, together with the brandy and cream, to a smooth paste. Roll orit very thinly on a floured board. Stamp out into rounds with a paste-cutter, prick them over with a fork, and bake on a floured baking-sheet in a quick oven. Opera Biscuits. 8 oz. Vienna flour, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. grouml almonds, 4 oz. glace cherries, i oz. pistachio kernels, 4 eggs, 8 drops vanilla essence. Put the sugar into a basin, add the eggs one at a time, and work to a light cream. Sift the flour, and work in lightly. Blanch the pistachios, peel, and chop small ; cut the cherries into small pieces, and add both to the mixture, together with the almonds and vanilla essence. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag with a large plain tube. Squeeze out some drops on to a greased tin about the size of a halfpenny piece ; dust over with fine sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven. \\'hen done, remove from the tin on to a sieve, and serve when cold. Water Biscuits. 12 oz. flour (sifted), 2 oz. Paisley flour, oz. butter, a saltspoonful of .salt. Mix the^two kinds of flonr in a basin, rub in the butter until the latter becomes thoroughly amalgamated with the flour. Add the salt and mix well, moisten with enough water to form a soft paste or dough. Roll it out, on a floured board, about one-eighth of an inch thick ; prick the paste with the prongs of a fork. Stamp out into round or square biscuit shapes, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, prick them and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. If liked, a little grated cheese can be mixed with the flonr. Cocoanut Biscuits. 6 oz. cocoanut (desiccated or freshly grated), the whites of 3 eggs, il oz. potato flour or cornflour, 4 oz. castor sugar, wafer paper or rice jiaper. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, thoroughly mix the sugar, cocoanut, and flonr, stir into the whites, mix carefully with a wooden spoon. Drop the mixture in little heaps, about f inch apart, on wafer or rice paper laid on to a baking-sheet. Bake in a very slow oven. This mixture may now be laid out for baking by means of a biscuit or forcing-bag, but where only a small quantity is required this mode of dressing is not ad^•isable. Biscuits a I’Africaine. 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. cornflour, 3 eggs, 3 oz. desiccated cocoanut, a little milk. Rub the flour and butter together until very fine, add the corn- flour, sugar, and two ounces of the cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, make a well in the centre, beat up the eggs and add them, work into a smooth dough ; roll out about an eighth of an inch thick, cut or stamp out into oblong biscuit shapes or lingers, place them on a9S4 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. buttered baking-sheet, brush over with a little sweetened milk and egg, sprinkle some cocoannt over the top of each. Bake in a mode- rately heated oven for about twenty minutes. If the paste is found too stiff, a little milk or cream should be added. Bonne-Bouche Biscuits. 3 oz. Vienna flour, i oz. Paisley flour, i egg, i tablespoonful cream, lemon oz. castor sugar, i j- oz. butter, salt, oz. almonds. Cream the sugar and butter in a basin, add the egg and the lemon-rind finely grated. Beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Mix the Vienna Hour and Paisley Hour, add a pinch of salt, and rub through a sieve. Stir the Hour into the above mixture, moisten with a little cream at first, work it thoroughly and add the remainder of the cream. Blanch the almonds, cut them into shreds, and dry in the oven. Mix about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and the shredded almonds with the dough. Drop the mixture in layers in wcll-bnttered fancy biscuit tins, dust over with a little castor sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Biscuits a Cuillere {Spoon or Sponge Fingers). 8 eggs, } lb. castor sugar, 6 oz, flour, sifted (or 4 oz. fecule), J teaspoonful vanilla essence. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the yolks in a basin with the sugar, and stir with a wooden spoon or spatula until qnite smooth ancl creamy. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth (add a pinch of salt before beginning to whisk). Work the flour and whites of eggs in small quantities into the creamed yolks, add the vanilla flavouring (if the eggs are small it will not require more than five ounces of Hour). Fill a forcing-bag three-parts full with the mixture, and with a plain pipe (:j-inch) press out the paste on to a baking-sheet, covered with white paper, in the shape of fingers about three inches long ; keep them about an inch apart. Proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Dust over with castor sugar. Bake in a moderately heated oven a golden colour. Let them cool on the paper, and remove carefully with a palette knife. Pack the biscuits into an air-tight tin, and use as required. Matrons glaces {Glazed Chestnuts). Select some fine sound chestnuts (Spanish chestnuts are best), slit the skins with a fine-pointed knife. Roast them in a frying- pan over a moderate fire or blanch them in boiling water, till the outer and inner skins can be removed. When they are all peeled, drain them and put theuf into a clean stew-pan (copper) with enough syrup to cover ; add a vanilla pod, and simmer very gently till the chestnuts are tender. Put them in a basin and allow them to stand covered till the following day. Reboil them in the syrup the next day. Take them up and drain on a sieve. Meanwhile boil a syrup (one pound of sugar to a gill of water) to the “ crack ” ; work it with a spoon against the sides of the pan till it is nearly cold, and dip the chestnuts into this separately, with a fork or skewer ; place them on trays and let them dry.955 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Marrons au Chocolat {Chocolate Chestnuts). Prepare some marrons glacfe as directed in the preceding recipe, coat each carefully with chocolate h)udant icing (see ]x 138). Dry them in a cool oven for a few minutes, and brush over with gum as soon as removed. Almond Kisses. i lb. .sweet almonds, 3 whites of eggs, 6 oz. castor sugar, i tcaspoonfiil remon-juicc, t teaspoonful vanilla essence, a pinch of .salt. Blanch, peel, and chop the almonds, put them on a jiaper at the mouth of the oven and let them get thoroughly dry. Put the whites of eggs in a clean egg-bowl, add the pinch of salt and whisk to a very stiff froth, stir in gradually the sugar, then add the lemon- juice and llavonring essence. Mix all gently, and fill into a forcing- Itag with a plain pipe. Force (tut some even-sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin. Dredge with sugar, and bake in a slow oven until a pale brown colour. Shavings (Hohelspane). Pound in a mortar four ounces of ground almonds with five ounces of castor sugar and the white of an egg. Mix this with half an ounce of cornflour and enough cream to make it into a thick batter. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag with a plain pipe, and force out long or short strips on to a waxed baking-tin. Bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and roll each strip whilst hot round a buttered roller (small round wood or iron stick). They must be so twisted as to give each strip a spiral-like shape. Remove quickly but carefully from the roller, and dish up. Petits Souvarofis {Dessert Biscuits). Cream half a pound of fresh butter with three ounces icing sugar, then add two yolks of eggs and half a pound sifted flour, and flavour with vanilla (W lemon essence. Roll out thinly and stam}) out into small oval shapes. Bake them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven. Sandwich each two together with apricot mar- malade, and dip them in fondant icing flavoured with rum or kirsch. Decorate each with half a glace cherry and two small angelica leaves. Sablets {Sandy Biscuits). l lb. butter, t lb. castor sugar, 2 egg.s, i lemon (rind grated), J lb. corn- flour or potato flour, ;} lb. N'ienna flour. W'arm the butter in a basin, add the sugar, and beat up to a cream, put in the lemon-rind, and lastly stir in the cornflour or potato flour and the Vienna flour. Roll out on a floured board and stamp out into fancy shapes, ovals, crescents or rounds. Place them on a baking-tin, dredge with icing sugar and chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Precieuses de Groseilles {Dessert or Tea Tartlets). Butter ten to twelve little boat-shaped patty-pans with Genoese mixture (see p. 036) and bake them in a fairly hot oven. Turn them out when done and scoop out the centre portion of each. Fill9S6 the new century COOKERY BOOK. the cavities with red-currant marmalade (groseilles de bar). Have ready a meringue mixtui'e, one white of egg whisked stiffly with one ounce of sugar. Coat the tops of the tartlets with this or ornament in lattice-work fashion ; dredge with icing sugar, and bake in a slow oven long enough to set the egg-white. Note.—Any other kind of small whole fruit jam can be used in place of red-currant marmalade. Biscuits aux Amandes [Almond Biscuits). 4 oz. ground almonds, 14 oz. castor sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls orange-flower water, 10 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 8 eggs. Mix the almonds, sugar, and orange-flower water in a mortar ; break in two eggs and work up. M’hisk up the other eggs and stir them gradually into the almond paste. Melt the butter and incor- porate it with the dour (sifted). Fill into very small plain or fancy bisenit-tins (buttered), and bake in a moderate oven. Gateau d’Amandes [Almond Cake). Proceed as above directed, but add four more eggs, the whites whisked to a stiff froth, and six ounces of butter instead of four. Bake in buttered cake-tins. Petits Fours. There are many varieties of petits fours made. A good Genoese usually forms the basis of at least three parts of fhe varieties. The following recipe will be found most serviceable for this purpose : Beat up to a cream four eggs with a quarter of a pound of fine castor sugar. Flavour it with vanilla essence or rose-water, and stir in alternately ten ounces of sifted dour and dve ounces of melted blitter (lukewarm). Have ready a buttered dat baking-sheet, about three-quarters of an inch deep. Spread the mixture on this and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-dve to thirty minutes*; or, if preferred, bake the mixture in little petits fours tins. The cake should be at least a day old before it is used for petits fours. Cut out small squares, diamonds, ovals or rounds, measuring about an inch or less. Split open and spread with some kind of preserve, almond paste or other delicate filling, and ice them over with fondant icing. Decorate with glace fruit, glace royale or butter icing according to taste and fancy. Place them in little paper cases or dish up in the ordinary way. Meringue, chopped almonds, and desiccated cocoanut are also used at times for decorating petits fours, but the success of these depends very much upon the indi- vidual taste and artistic talent disjilayed in decorating them. Petits Fours d’Amandes. Pound in a mortar half a pound of sweet almonds (peeled and dried) ; when smooth, add the whites of two eggs and quarter of a pound of vanilla sugar, mix well, and put into a basin. Whisk stiffly the whites of three eggs, incorporate one ounce of ground rice, and stir this carefully with the almond paste. Shape the mixture into small balls and place them on a baking-sheet. Sprinkle overPASJNY AND CONh'ECl lONERY. 957 Some shredded almonds and bake in a very cool oven. l\Ielt some apricot marmalade, ilavour it with a few drops of maraschino or other licpienr. Spread the flat side of each petit four with this and place each two together ; dip in fondant icing, and when set place them into little paper cases. Icing for Petits Fours and other Dessert Biscuits. Pnt half a pound of icing sugar into a copper saucejxm, add the strained juice of a lemon, and stir over the hre till hot ; flavonr with a few drops of kirsch or nun and stir till nearly cold. Dip the articles to be iced in this, and place them on a pastry tray to set. For other directions for making fondant icing, see p. 138. Dough Nuts [Berlinois). t lb. flour, I teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. blitter, I egg, a tablespoonful milk, apricot or raspberry jam, vanilla sugar. Sift the flour with the baking-powder into a basin, add a pinch of salt, and rub in the butter ; then add the sugar, beat up the egg with the milk, and work into a smooth but fairly firm dough. Divide it into eight or nine portions, shape each into a ball ; make an incision and put a teaspoonful of jam in the centre of each, close np and shape into balls again. Fry in very hot fat at hrst, and flnish frying in cooler fat. Take np, drain, and dredge with vanilla sugar. Brandy Snaps or Wafers. 3 oz. golden syrup, 3-I oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, 3!- oz. castor sugar, 1 tea- spoonful brandy, i teaspoonful ground ginger, i teaspoonful grated lemon-rind. Melt syrup, butter, and sugar together, mix in gradually the flour and other ingredients, and stir well. Drop the mixture in even- sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin, place them about two inches apart so as to give plenty of room to run. Bake in a quick o\-en ; watch them carefully until they are done, as they are liable to burn cjuickly. Roll up on an oiled wooden spoon handle or pastry roller ; this must be done cjuickly, else they will break. Bale Leckerlis (Sir'iss Honey Cakes). t lb. Swiss honey, 4 oz. Jordan almonds, i oz. orange and citron peel, I oz. ground cinnamon, a saltspoonful ground cloves, 3 oz. castor sugar, 10 oz. flour, I teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, i tablespoonful kirsch- wasser. Bring the honey to the boil in a clean stew-pan, skim it, add the almonds previously blanched, peeled, and chopped coarseljq peel, cinnamon, cloves, and the sugar. Let this stand for live to six hours. Then stir in the flour, baking-powder, ;ind the kirschwasser. Roll out the paste about a cpiartcr of an inch thick and cut it into even-sized pieces, oblong or square. Lay them on a floured baking- sheet, and bake in ti moderate oven till firm and lightly browned. IMix some icing sugar smoothly with a little hot water ; brush over the top of the little cakes whilst they are still hot. Return to the958 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. mouth of the^oven tor a few moments, and place on a sieve or ]:>astry tray^to jcool. Note.—The icing used must be liquid enough to enable one to brush the cakes lightly. A little grated nutmeg and one teaspoon- fnl of hnely chopped lemon-rind added to the above is considered an improvement by many. Schenkelein {Swiss Tea Cakes). f. lb. flour (sifted), lb. castor sugar, 2 whole eggs, and i yolk of egg, 2 oz. butter, the grated rind of 1 lemon, clarified butter for frying. Break the eggs into a basin containing the sugar and lemon-rind, work this to a cream, stir in by degrees the butter (melted) and the flour. Let the dough thus produced stand for a few hours. Make it up into small cork shapes on a floured board. Drop them, a few at a time, into hot clarified butter, and fry them to a golden colour. Drain them, sprinkle with fine sugar, and serve hot or cold. Fruit Marzipan ( Dessert). Roll out a pound of almond paste (see p. 136) in sheets about a quarter of an inch thick, cut out small rounds with a crinkled cutter. In centre of each place a small piece of glace cherry, apricot, or a round of glace green fig; fold over the paste in half- like rissoles, pinch edges together ; shape as desired ; brush them over with pink or other coloured water or fondant icing. Marzipan Aimond Paste. Pound in a mortar one pound of ground almonds with one and a quarter pounds of castor or icing sugar ; add one tablespoonful orange-flower water and sufficient plain syrnp to make it into a stiff paste. Marzipan Biscuits. Proceed as above directed, but roll out the paste rather thinner ; use apricot marmalade to be spread between the almond or marzipan paste. Ice over with vanilla-tlavoured icing. Cut into oblong, round or crescent-shaped biscuits, and decorate the tops with thin leaves of angelica and peeled pistachio nuts. Hazel Nut Macaroons. Blanch and peel 3 oz. of hazel nuts and i oz. Jordan almonds, dry them, chop up and pound in a mortar with the whites of 3 eggs ; when smooth add l~ lb. castor sugar and h oz. of rice flour, work well. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag with plain tube, and force out small heaps on to wafer paper, placed on a baking-sheet. Bake in a moderate oven. Raspberry Fingers. Roll out some almond j)aste a quarter of an inch m thick- ness ; cut in half, and spread one half with raspberry jam. Place the other on top ; trim the edges. Ice over with fondant or water icing and cut into strips, then into fingers. Place half a cherry and one or two angelica leaves on each. The icing should be set before cutting up the paste.j’ASTRY AND CONFECIIONERY. 059 BON-BONS AND OTHER SWEETMEATS. Syrup for Sweetmeats, &c. Dissoh'e i 11). loaf sugar in 1 pint water, then boil np quickly, remove the scum and continue to boil to 220 deg. on Senn’s saccharometer, and skim. When cool store in bottles. Fondant. 3 lbs. loaf sugar, \ pint water, { lb. glucose. Put the ingredients in a perfectly clean copper or brass pan. Dissolve very slowly, then boil to 245 deg. or soft ball. Skim carefully while boiling. When ready, pour on to a marble slab lightly sprinkled with cold water. As soon as the edges begin to set work the fondant uj) and down with a spatula until cool enough to handle. In this condition it can be put away in a covered jar for twelve or twenty-four hours, when it becomes soft again, or, if required for immediate use, continue kneading until it becomes soft. Fondant Covering. Put some fondant, as above directed, in a doulile pan, and heat up very gently. Flavour with vanilla and add a little plain syrup. Heat up gently, and add more syrup if necessary. Dip the centres into this cream with a dij)ping fork, and place them on grease-proof paper to dry. A nice finish can be put on these by ])utting some fondant into a cornet and forcing a small curl on top of each. Vanilla Fondants, Take some fondant, as above directed, knead it thoroughly, flavour to taste with vanilla, and form into small rounds or ovals. Allow these centres to dry for some hours, then dip them in a fondant cream covering. Rose Fondants. These are made exactly the same way as Vanilla Fondants, using some carmine and rose essence liavouring instead of vanilla. Fruit Fondants. The most suitable fresh fruits for fondants are strawberries, cherries, and grapes. The fruit should be perfectly fresh, ripe, and dry. Fresh fruit fondant should be ])repared only a short time liefore serving. Pre- pare some fondant cream as before described, flav'our with some nice liqueur. Leave a short' stem on the fruit. Dip the fruit into liqueur. Let it stand a little, then dip into the fondant cream. Place on grease- proof paper until firm. Serve in fancy paper cases. Moulded Fondants. Fondants are generally moulded in fancy moulds ; for this purpose a starch tray or rubber moulds must be used. Pre})are some fondant icing the same as for coating cakes (see page 138), heat up, then put into a paper cornet, and fill up the moulds. When cold pick out. These fondants require to be crystallized. For crystallizing it will be necessarv to have a saccharometer or “ pese sirop ” (see ])age 65) and a crystal- lizing tray. Crystallizing Syrup. Dissolve carefully 6 llis. best loaf sugar in a cjuart ol water, then boil till the syru]) registers 36 deg. by the syrup gauge (see p. 65). Let it96o THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. stand till quite cold—two or three hours. Remove the scum. Arrange the sweets in the crystallizing wire tray. Pour over the syrup, and let them stand twelve hours, then drain off the syrup. Leave the sweets for twelve hours longer, then place them on a sieve, and allow them to dry. Chocolate Fondants. Shape some fondant into small rounds or ovals, and allow it to stand for twelve hours. Shred J lb. Kohler’s covering chocolate, jdace in a “ Bain Marie ” and melt it slowly without letting it get too hot. Next dip the fondant shapes by means of a dij)ping fork into the dissolved chocolate, and place on grease-proof paper. Opera Creams. I lb. fondant, i gill double cream, i lb. icing sugar, colouring and flavouring to taste. The fondant for oj)era creams should not be boiled higher than 240 deg. Put the fondant and cream into a saucepan, and melt very slowly, being careful not to make the mixture too hot, just barely warm. Add colouring and flavouring to taste, then sufficient icing sugar to make into a stiff paste. Beat the mixture well. Line a tin with grease-proof paj)er, pour in the mixture to about one inch in thickness. When cold cut into squares. Neapolitan Creams. I white of egg, same quantity of water, about i lb. icing sugar, flavour- ing and colouring, i oz. vanilla-flavoured chocolate, some covering chocolate, 2 ozs. desiccated cocoanut. Beat up the egg lightly, mix it with the water, and work in enough sifted icing sugar to form a stiff })aste. Divide into three pieces. Into one piece work the grated vanilla chocolate ; another colour pink and flavour with raspberry. Leave one white and flavour with vanilla, roll each piece out about \ in., brush very lightly over with white of egg, place on top of each other, brush both sides over with covering chocolate, sprinkle with cocoanut. When dry cut into fancy shapes. Marzipan Paste. I lb. ground almonds, ^ gill orange-flower water, h 11). castor sugar, ^ lb. icing sugar, colouring and flavouring to taste. Mix together the almonds, castor sugar, and orange-flower water, then cook over a gentle heat till it does not stick to the hand. Place on a board or slab and work in the icing sugar, colouring, and flavouring. Marzipan Dates. Remove the stones trom the dates, then fill them with marzij)an paste (kernel shapes slightly larger than the date stones). Dip each in caramel, let cool, and place in oval paper cases. French plums can be treated in the same way. Marzipan Almonds. Roll out some green-coloured marzipan, cut into rounds and j)ress each into almond moulds. Then put a blanched almond on the lower half, close the mould, and press both sides together, then oi)en and allow the marzipan almond to drop out. Caramel. Boil I lb. loaf sugar, i gill water, tiny pinch cream of tartar, and one dro]) acetic acid to caramel, 310 deg., use as directed.961 PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. Cream Caramels. I lb. fondant, i gill cream (al)out), i|- 11 >. icing sugar, colouring and flavouring. These sweets should be made from fondant that has not l)een ^ boiled too high, about 240 deg. Melt the fondant very slowly with the cream. Add some colouring and flavouring, and sufficient icing sugar to form a stiff paste. Beat the mixture well. Pour it into a long flat tin box which you have lined with grease-proof paj)er. When set cut into squares with a caramel cutter. Chocolate Caramels. 1 lb. loaf sugar, i gill water, i gill cream, 2 oz. Kohler's covering choco- late, I teaspoonful of cream of tartar, some essence of vanilla. Boil the sugar and water to 245 deg. Take it off the fire, then add the cream, and mix thoroughly. Grate the chocolate, stir it into the sugar, adding the cream of tartar and vanilla at the same time, and then cook to 250 deg. (hard ball). Great care must be taken to get the exact degree. Pour the mixture on to an oiled slab between oiled bars. When cool mark with a caramel cutter and when cold break into squares. Orange Creams. 8 oz. icing sugar, a small pinch tartaric acid, orange-juice, white of egg, yellow colouring. Sieve the sugar and add tartaric acid, mix to a stiff paste with the strained orange-juice and about half of a lightly beaten white of egg, add a little yellow colouring. Mix thoroughly and knead lightly. Form into marbles or ovals, place them on grease-proof paper and allow to dry for two or three hours. Serve in fancy paper cases. Peppermint Creams. Proceed the same as directed for Orange Creams, use cold water in place of orange-juice, and omit the colouring, add sufficient peppermint essence to flavour. Knead the cream thoroughly, roll out about I in. thick, cut into rounds, make a small dent in the centre. Lay out on grease-proof paper from three to four hours. Cocoanut Ice. I lb. loaf sugar, i gill cold water, 3 oz. tine desiccated cocoanut, a little carmine to colour. Boil sugar and water to 235 deg. Remove the pan from the fire, add the cocoanut and stir with a wooden spoon, rubbing the mixture against the sides of the pan till it begins to turn. Pour two- thirds on to a greased dish. Colour the remainder a pretty soft pink with carmine, and spread it over the white. When nearly cold cut into squares or fingers. Popcorn Candy. I lb. sugar, I gill water, \ gill molasses, i oz. butter, tiny pinch cream of tartar, i pint popcorn. Boil the sugar, cream of tartar, water, and molasses to 240 deg. Then let the bubbling cease and add the butter. When it is dissolved, add the popcorn. Stir gently till the corn is coated all over, pour on to oiled tins or dishes, or it can be poured on to an oiled slab, and when cool enough to handle rolled into balls. When quite set, wrap in wax paper. Note.—If wished this candy can be coloured and flavoured. A harder candy can be made by boiling the sugar to a higher degree, being careful it does not burn. It can be boiled safely to 280 deg. 3 P962 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. To Prepare Popcorn. To make popcorn sweets of any kind the corn is prepared in the following manner. Procure the best Indian corn, ])ut a thin layer of corn into a wire frying-basket, shake it over a very slow fire or low gas till all the corn has “ popped,” when it appears white and floury. If the corn is sprinkled with castor sugar before popping it will improve the flavour and appearance. Americans use a proper “ corn pepper ” for this. Butter-Scotch. I lb. best cane sugar, i gill milk or cream, i gill water, pinch of c eam of tartar, 3 oz. butter, flavouring. Allow the sugar to dissolve very slowly in the milk and water, add the cream of tartar, and when suffl- ciently warm add the butter, a little bit at a time. Then boil it carefully to 280 deg. Add the flavouring and pour on to an oiled tin. When half set mark into squares, and when quite cold separate ; wrap each piece in wax paper, then in tin foil. Caramel Walnuts. Shape some marzipan paste into balls, ])iess half a shelled and peeled walnut on each side, put a small wooden skewer into each and dip in caramel, place them on a lightly greased slab or dish and remove the skewers. When set put each into a round jmper case. Marzipan Rolls. Take some white, junk, and green marzipan j)aste, roll out the white and pink |-in. in thickness. Brush the white lightly over with white of egg, and roll in it the junk till comjfletely covered. Trim neatly. In a similar manner, roll j)ink marzijran into green almond j^aste. Coat over with Kohler’s chocolate which should be grated and dissolved over boiling water. Then roll in desiccated cocoanut. When set cut into neat rolls. Turkish Delight. I lb. loaf sugar, i gill rose water, i gill water, i teaspoonful lemon- juice, 2 oz. wheat starch or confectioners’ starch, colouring, icing sugar. Boil the sugar, water, and rose water, and a small pinch of cream of tartar to 229 degrees, blend the starcl) in a little cold water, strain into the syruj), and let it boil till thick. Then add some colouring and strong rose flavouring, if liked, jrour on to an oiled tin to set a little, then turn on to a })late well dusted with starch and icing sugar, cut into blocks, toss them in icing sugar, and jiack in a tin, with wax jiajier between the layers. Chocolate Pralines. 4 oz. icing sugar, 4 oz. almonds, 4 oz. Kohler’s un.sweetened chocolate. Blanch the almonds, dry them in the oven, then shred them. Put the almonds into a copper bowl, sift the icing sugar, add it gradually to the almonds, and cook carefully to caramel degree (about 310°). Do not keeji stirring, but move the mixture about gently to ju'event it burning. Turn on to an oiled slab, and when cool enough jwund in a mortar till oily. Make into small balls or squares, and coat at once in chocolate coating. Dipped Bon-bons. Simple and delicious sweets may be made by dijnping various centres into fondant cream as follows : Prepare i lb. fondant for d pping by heating it over hot water, then with a wire fork dij:) in half walnuts, .squares of pineapjfle, stoned cherries, any glace fruit and all kinds of nuts. The nuts are nicer if chopped and mixed with some fondant cream, formed into cen res and allowed to stand some hours to set.PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 963 Marsh Mallows. 4 oz. white gum arabic, i ])int water, 4 oz. crab-apple ji'Hy, i gill syrup, 2 whites of eggs, some orange-ltower water. Dissolve the gum in the water and strain it. Add to it the syrup and jelly and boil carefully till quite thick. Then wmrk in the stiffly whisked whites of eggs, and flavour to taste. Pour on to a slab, well sprinkled with a mixture of icing sugar and confectioners’ starch. Make it smooth on top, and dredge with sugar and starch. When cold cut into rounds, diamonds or squares. Toss in starch and sugar and pack between wax paper layers. Fruit Candy, Fresh cocoanut, citron, glace cherries, laisins, figs, 2 lb. loaf sugar, i pint water, small pinch cream of tartar. Take about i lb. (mixed) of cocoa- nut, cherries, raisins, figs, and citron, and shred them rather coarsely. Mix thoroughly, and spread on a greased tin. Boil the sugar, water, and cream of tartar to 310 degrees, or until it is a light brown colour, then pour it over the fruit. When half cold, mark into st^uares. When cold, divide the sections, and wrap each in wax paper. (Keep in a tin.) Sugar Candies, I lb. loaf sugar, half a level teaspoonful of cream of tartar, i gill water, a tew drops tartaric acid, colouring, and flavouring. Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar to 310 degrees. Then pour it on to an oiled slab, sprinkle with tartaric acid, colouring and flavouring to taste. Fold over and over till cool enough to handle. Then pull into strips and cut into pieces about i in. square, wrap in wax paper and keep in air-tight tins. Note.—These candies should be pulled as hot as possible. Walnut Molasses Candy. 1 lb. Demerara sugar, i oz. fresh butter, 4 oz. golden syruj) or treacle, I gill water, 8 oz. walnuts, 3 droj)S acetic acid, small pinch cream of tartar. Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar until clear, then add the golden syrup and butter, and boil to 3/0 degrees. Pour on to an oiled slab, add the acetic acid and the walnuts finely chopped, fold over and over until cool enough to handle, then pull into strips. Cut into about i-in. square pieces, and wrap in wax paper. Chocolate Toffee. 2 oz. Kohler’s unsweetened chocolate, 4 oz. almonds, 4 oz. icing sugar, I oz. fresh butter, a little more than i- gill of cream, vanilla flavouring. Blanch the almonds, cut them into quarters, and brown them lightly in the oven. Grate the chocolate, melt it over a slow fire, add the cream and let it boil. Remove the jian from the fire, add the butter by degrees, then the sugar, last of all the almonds and flavouring. iMix well and when the mixture begins to thicken, turn it on to a slightly oiled dish or slab ; it should be about -J-inch in thickness ; when set, di^ude it into sections, and wrap in wax paper when cold. Everton Toffee, I 11). best loaf sugar, i gill water, 4 oz. fresh butter, small pinch of cream of tartar. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a sauce- ])an, let it dissolve, then boil carefully to 300 degrees. Remove the ])an from the fire, add the butter by degrees, allow ng it to melt without stirring the toffee. When all the butter is added in this way, boil the toffee up again to 300 degrees, then pour into slightly oiled small square or oblong tins. When cold wraji each j)iece in wax pa])er, then in tin-foil.964 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. CHAPTER XU. AUXILIARY RECIPES. How to Make Coffee. Coffee-making, somehow, is looked upon by many as one of those easy things which everybody, it is supposed, can do. Perhaps that is one of the reasons why so little attention is paid to it, and that good coffee is, in many households, the exception instead of the rule. Very often stale or adulterated coffee is used, and care is not taken that the water is freshly boiled. To make a good, clear liquor, the bean should be freshly roasted, ground while hot, and kept well covered till required. It is therefore best to buy coffee roasted or ground in small quantities and from a well-reputed firm. The kind of coffee to be used is a matter of taste. Java and Mocha make a nice blend, whilst Mocha, Mysore, and Jamaica are well- known and deservedly popular varieties of coffee, b it the source of any coffee does not guarantee its quality, for so much depends upon roasting and brewing. The flavour, latent in the raw beans, can only be fully developed when coffee is roasted in a properly constructed and well-ventilated cylinder. It is a mistake to suppose that all coffee beans lose much of their flavour after being roasted. At the end of three months no material deterioration will have taken place, pro- vided the coffee beans have been properly roasted and kept in an air- tight vessel ; on the other hand, to preserve the full aroma of coffee, grinding should be done immediately before infusion. In order to extract the full strength of the coffee it should be ground rather fine, and the infusion should be well stirred, the stirring being, in effect, a continuation of the grinding process. There is a great difference in regard to the quantity of coffee used in fhis and other countries, so that no hard and fast line can be drawn, but undue economy is responsible for our reputation for poor coffee. In certain parts on the Continent two tablespoonfuls of coffee and a teaspoon ful of chicory is used for every breakfast-cup of coffee, while the Austrians, who are famed for their coffee, rise about four ounces of pure coffee to every litre of coffee produced. The three principles of preparation are : Infusion, filtration, and boiling ; of these the first-named is most generally applied.0^5 AUXILIARY RECIPES. Coffee should be freshly roasted and ground not too finely. The correct quantity of coffee for breakfast coffee is i] ounce or two heaped-up tablespoonfuls to each pint of water. Half-j)int of boiling milk should be allowed to each half-])int of coffee. For family use the best pot to make coffee iu is the earthenware fireproof pot (cafetiere). Pour in some boiling water to get it well heated, then put the gnxund coffee into the perforated receptacle (percolator). Pour in by degrees the boiling water, put the lid on and let the liquid run through. Pour it back and let it pass through a second time. Keep the pot on the stove to ensure its being kept hot. Coffee with Chicory. For reason of economy or otherwise, some people prefer the addition of chicory with coffee. Some say that coffee is more wholesome if mi.xed with chicory. Add one tablespoon ful of ground chicory (using a well-known French or German brand) to every six tablespoonfuls of ground coffee, and proceed as above directed. Water for Coffee Making. Now as to the water: this apparently small item is one of vital importance in the making of coffee. The water must be fresh, and boiled up fully. Water that has been standing should never be used. It must not be allowed to boil long, and should be poured over or on the coffee as soon as it boils. Tong boiling destroys or deadens certain alkaline salts contained in the water, whereby the coffee often loses a great deal of its aroma. On the other hand, it is essential that the water must boil fast before it is used, because the caffeone and caffeine in coffee are only soluble in actually boiling water. Boiled Milk for Coffee. Bring the milk slowly to the boil in a well-lined steel, copper or enamelled pan. Stir the milk with' a clean wooden spoon from time to time to prevent a skin forming on top, which is frcquentlv the case with rich milk, and is objected to bv many. The milk will then be all the nicer. Viennese Coffee {Cafe a la Vieinwise). Prepare some strong coffee, allowing one heaped-up table- spoonful for each breakfast cup of coffee required, ^\’hen strained swTeteu to taste, serve iu small cups with a dessert-spoonful of whipped cream on top. Cafe noir [Black Coffee). Make some coffee as directed on the preceding page ; use rather more ground coffee, to ensure its being strong. Serve in small cups with sugar. Cream and milk are sometimes handed round, but this is not essential, Cafe au Lait [Coffee with Milk). This is strong clear coffee mixed with eciual proportions of boiling milk, as directed on the preceding page,066 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. STEVENSON S PERCOLATOR. Filtered or Percolated Coffee. Of the numerous coffee-making machines on the market, the Viennese type is undoubtedly the simplest of all. The process of making coffee by one of these apparatus, as ilhistrated, is ex- ceedingly simple. After removing the upper part, which is in the form of a funnel, put into the globe the required amount of hot water, and light the spirit lamp. When the water boils, replace the funnel, and into it put the coffee, allowing about 3 oz. to one pint of water. Wait until the water ascends and mixes with the coffee, then stir well, extinguish the lamp, and use the coffee as soon as it passes into the lower vessel. When ready, the funnel should be removed, and the coffee poured direct from the globe into the cups, to avoid loss of heat. Cafe a la turque [Turkish Coffee). Turkish coffee differs from ordinary coffee by being very much stronger, and is made in small quantities only. To make it correctly a special apparatus known as a Turkish cafe- tiere should be used. For six cups of coffee take six heaped-up tea- spoonfuls of ground Mocha and Java^ coffee. Measure seven cups of boiling water into the pot, bring it to the boil, and stir in the coffee ; add a dessertspoonful of cold water and boil up again. Ex- tinguish the flame (if a spirit lamp is used) and let the coffee settle. Serve in hot cups and hand round with crystallised sugar and thin slices of lemon. How to Make Cocoa. I heapecl-up teaspoonfnl of cocoa to a cup of milk or water per person. Put the cocoa into a cup or jug, boil up the milk or water and pour over the cocoa, stir, return to the pan in which the liquid967 AUXILIARY RECIPES. was boiled, stir until it boils, then serve, adding sugar to taste. iMost cocoas may be prepared without boiling, but it is a great improvement to allow it to boil for just a couple of minutes to extract the full strength and to develop the flavour. The above method is especially suitable for Van Houten’s or other best brands of cocoa. How to Make Chocolate. I pint of milk to i- oz. of chocolate per person. Put the chocolate into a stew-pan or enamelled saucepan, add a little water, and stir over the hre with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste. Boil the milk and pour it over the chocolate, stir with a wooden spoon till it boils, and allow it to boil for two minutes. Sweeten to taste and serve. How to Make Tea. I lieaped-up teaspoonful of tea to each of freshly boiled water per person : cream or milk and sugar to taste. Heat the teapot, put in the tea and pour the water on to the tea as soon as it hoils. Put the lid on the pot and allow ordinary tea to stand for three minutes. Some high-class teas require a longer lime to extract their flavour. The tea should then be served immediately. An extra heaped-up teaspoonful of tea is generally allowed over the above quantity. Note.—Always use fresh water, and pour on to the tea immediately it boils. Rules on Jam-making. r. Observe the strictest cleanliness. 2. Use fresh, ripe, and dry fruit, and avoid damp, over-ripe or under-ripe fruit. 3. Use best pure cane sugar only. 4. Allow from three-quarters to one pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Acid fruits require full weight. 5. Have a steady but bright lire. 6. Boil continuously, stir and skim frequently. 7. Do not All the preserving-pan too fuil. 8. Boil the fruit till it jellies or sets when cold. g. Have the jars or pots perfectly clean and dry before filling. 10. Either cover the jars immediately or leave until the jam is quite cold, and cover with parchment paper, ii. Label the jars or pots with name of jam and date when made. 12. Store them in a cool but dry place, free from damp or draught. Fruit Preserving. To every pound of fruit jiicked and ready for the preserving- pan allow three-quarters of a pound of the best cane sugar. Loaf sugar, of course, should be used, as that is less easily adulterated than castor or powdered sugar. To any quantity of fruit over three pounds put half a pint of water in the preserving-pan. This water prevents the sugar at the bottom of the pan from burning, and keeps the jam from getting stiff and hard. All kinds of fruit jam should be cooked fast, because quick boiling produces a better colour and better flavour than slow befiling or simmering. Most jams require about forty minutes to968 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. cook. Juicy fruits, such as strawberries, raspberries, and cherries require about ten minutes longer. The times specified are reckoned from when the jam actually boils. In wet seasons or with very ripe fruit, less or no water can be used, and under the same conditions full amounts of sugar are required. The best way to test the consistency of jams is to put a little on a clean plate or saucer, and if it sets when cold it is done ; if the syrup remains liquid, boil it a little longer and then test again. Many fruits may be kept whole by straining them from the syrup when sufficiently cooked. When the syrup has been boiled rapidly until it jellies when tested, the fruit should be replaced for a final gentle boil. Directly the jam is cooked, have ready some clean dry jars ; fill them, and tie them down. Vegetable parchment damped in cold water, wiped with a clean cloth, stretched over the jar and tied dowm, keeps the jam very air-tight. If the parchment is not procm'able, dip some thin paper in milk and press it over the top of the jar until the heat from the jam causes the milk to evaporate, and the paper sticks firmly to the jar. TABLE FOR JAM MAKING. Kind of Fruit. Season. Amount of Sugar. Amount of \Vater. Apple Sept, to Nov. lb. to I lb. fruit peeled & cored One gill to i lb. Apricot Aug. to Sept. Equal weight after stoning One gill to i lb. Blackberry Aug. to Sept. Equal weight None Cherry June to July -|- lb. to I lb. fruit I gill of red-currant juice to each lb. Currant, Red June to July Equal weight None Currant, Black June to July Equal weight -J-gill to each lb. Damson Sept, to Oct. Equal weight None Greengage Aug. to Sept. |- lb. to each lb. before stoning None Gooseberry June to Aug. Equal weight 1-2 gills to each lb. Plum Aug. to Oct. f lb. to each pound None, or very little Raspberry June to Aug. Equal weight None Rhubarb Mar. to May Equal weight J-gill to each lb. Strawberry June to July Equal weight None N.B.—Rhubarb or raspberry juice may, with great advantage, be used in the place of water. Orange Marmalade, 12 Seville oranges and their weight in cane sugar, i lemon (or i lb. frnit, lb. sugar, and i quart water). Take the w^eight of the oranges in loaf sugar. Cut the orange and lemon into quarters ; put them into a preserving-pan with enough cold w'ater to cover, and let them boil until tender. Divide the fruit into sections, remove all the pulp, and put the skins and pips into a quart of cold wmter. Preserve the w'ater in w'hich the fruit w^as boiled. Cut the rind into thin shreds about an inch long. Allow a pint of w'ater for every dozen oranges, using the strained liquid from the pips and skins and that in wiiich the oranges w'ereAUXILIARY RECIPES. 969 boiled. Put the pulp and the shreds into this, let them infuse for six: hours, then boil them gently with the sugar until the marmalade jellies. Remove the scum. Put it into jars, and when cold cover in the usual way. Lemon Marmalade. 6 leinon.s or more to make up the weight of 2 It)., 3 lb. loaf sugar. The lemons used must be clear and smooth. Put them into a copper stew-pan and cover well with water ; boil them for about two hours, changing the water two or three times during the pretcess. Drain them ; keep the water the lemons were last boiled in. Cut the lemons into halves longways and slice them as finely as possible, removing all the pips. Take three pints of the lemon water and put it with the sirgar into a copper sugar boiler to boil. Remove the scum and let boil for fifteen minutes. x\dd the fruit and boil again until it becomes clear. Strain off the fruit when cold, boil up the syrup again, add the fruit, give it another boil, then put into jars. Let it cool and cover over in the usual manner. Red-Currant Jelly. Select fruit that is full and large, freshly gathered, and not over- ripe. Remove all dry leaves and poor fruit, but do not remove the stems. W’ash, drain well, and mash the fruit. Bring slowly to a boil, add only a very little water, and boil until the currants are soft. Drain off the juice, and to each pint allow one pound of l(3af or preserving sugar. Measure three pints of juice into the preserving kettle, boil about ten minutes, add the sugar, stir until it is thoroughly dissolved, and boil till it thickens on the spoon. It usually requires from five to ten minutes’ boiling. Pour into pot and cover when cold. Apple J«lly. All sour or tart apples make excellent jelly. Wash the apples and remove all unsouncl parts. Cut them into pieces without pariiif; or removing the core. Place in an earthenware preserving-pan, add enough water to cover, and cook till tender. Drain the juice, and allow J lb. of loaf sugar to each pint. IMeasure three pints of jfficc into the preserving-pan, boil about fifteen minutes, then add the sugar and cook till it forms a jelly when cold. Cranberry Jelly {Gelec aux Airellces). \ lb. cranberries, 6 oz. sugar, a pinch soda, a tcaspoonful lemon-juice, l i- gill water. Pick over and wash the cranberries, put them in a stew-pan with the water and soda. Remove the scum as soon as it begins to boil, then add the sugar, and boil gently for about twenty minutes, and keep covered whilst boiling. Remove the lid and add the lemon-juice, reduce briskly for a few minutes until the liquid stiffens ; strain into a wetted moidcl or any earthen vessel, allow it to set in a cool place, and turn out when required. This is not exactly a sauce, although the Americans describe it as such. -It forms an excellent and most ajqiropriate accompaniment with roast turkey.970 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Quince Jelly. Select the fruit ripe and of hire flavour. The orange quince is considered the best. Wash well and rub the fruit with a cloth. The best part of the quince can be used for bottling and preserving. Make the jelly from the rind and hard knotty parts, with the addition of some of the whole fruit. Remove the seeds or core portion. Cover the fruit with water, stew geutly until tender, and then drain ; f- lb. of cane sugar to each pint of juice is sufficient. Measure three pints of juice into the preserving-pan, boil fifteen minutes, add sugar, and proceed as previously directed. Devonshire Junket. I pint new milk, i gill cream, i tablespoonful brandy or rum, i teaspoonful prepared rennet, 2 oz. castor sugar, grated nutmeg. Mix the rennet with a little cold milk. Warm up the rest of the milk, but do not let it get hot ; add the rennet, sugar, and brandy or rum. When cold and set, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve. Cocoanut Junket. I quart milk, i to i i oz. desiccated cocoanut, i saltspoonful rennet or curd producer, 2 oz. sugar, i small glass rum. Use new milk. Add the cocoanut and place in a warm oven for about half an hour. Add sugar, strain, and add the rennet or curd powder while warm. Stir in the rum and let it set. If liked, sprinkle over with a handful of baked cocoanut chips. Pulled Bread. Procure a few French rolls, cut off the crust, pull the crumby part into rough pieces, sprinkle over with a little warm milk, place the pieces on a baking-tin, and bake in a very slow oven until crisp and of a pretty golden colour. Yorkshire Pudding {served with roast beef). 1 lb. flour, 2 eggs, i piut milk, a pinch of salt, i oz. dripping or butter. Sift the flour into a basin. Beat up the eggs with the milk. Stir this gradually into the flour and beat for at least ten minutes. Add the salt and pour into a Yorkshire pudding-tin containing the dripping or butter melted. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Turn out and cut into portions. Plain Suet Pudding. I lb. flour, 6 to 8 oz. beef or mutton suet (the former preferred), i level teaspoonful of .salt, i teaspoonful Royal baking-powder, cold water. Free the suet from skin and chop it finely, place it into a basin and mix with the flour, salt, and baking-powder ; mix the ingredients well together, and add enough cold water to form a fairly stiff paste. Make it up into the shape of a roll. Dip a large pudding- cloth into boiling water, wring it out, and dredge one side with flour. Place the suet paste roll iu the centre of the cloth (floured side), roll it up tightly, and tie the ends loosely with string. Put the pudding into a large saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about two and a quarter hours or steam it for three hours. M’hen done.971 A U XI LI A R \' RECIPES. take it ^^p, untie the ends, and remove the cloth carefully. Place it on a hot dish and serve, either with a boat of hot gravy or with some treacle or golden syrup. Note.—This crust is also used for meat and fruit puddings, Suet Dumplings. Prepare a suet paste as directed in the foregoing recipe. II required savoury add a heaped-up teaspoonful of savoury herbs and the same quantity of linely-chopped parsley. Make iqr into even-sized balls and place them into a steamer. Cook for two to two and a quarter hours, and serve either with gravy or else with stewed, boiled or braised meat. Suet dumplings served with boiled beef are usually plain—that is, without the addition of savoury herbs, etc. Exeter Dumplings. These are made as above described, containing powdered sweet or savoury herbs, chopped parsley, and a little pepper. The dump- lings should be shaped rather small and placed on top of the meat stew (knowm as Exeter stew). They require about two hours to cook. Norfolk Dumplings. Make an ordinary bread dough with one quartern of flour, one ounce of yeast, a good pinch of salt, and about one and a half pint of water. After the dough has risen a second time, pnt it on a floured board, and make up into round balls, each weighing about three ounces. Drop them into fast-boiling slightly salted water, and let boil for about thirty minutes. When done, take up, drain them, and dish up. Serve with a boat of rich gravy or other suitable sauce. Peas Pudding {served with boiled pork or beef). I pint split peas, 2 oz. butter or drijDping, i egg, salt and pepper. Soak the peas overnight, put them into a saucepan with a quart of cold water, and boil till tender (about an hour), rub them through a sieve or colander, add the butter or dripping, pepper and salt to taste, and mix well with the egg. Flour a wetted cloth, put the pudding into it, tie it up tightly, and boil in stock or water for another hour. Pickled Herrings. Put six fresh herrings (cleaned) into a pie-dish with a blade of mace, a peeled shallot, a bay-leaf, ten peppercorns, a little salt, and enough vinegar and water (half-and-half) to barely cover. Place the dish with cover in a slow oven, and bake until the fish are tender. Let them get cold in the liquor. Veal Stuffing {suitable for veal, chicken, turkey or rabbit). Mix carefully the following: 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. finely chopped cooked ham, 4 oz. breadcrumbs, i tablespoonful chopped parsley, i teaspoonful of mixed herbs, thyme, and marjoram. Add salt and pepper to taste and mix with two well-beaten eggs.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 972 Forcemeat Balls. Prepare a mixture as above, shape it into balls of desired size, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Drain, and use for garnishing calf’s head, roast hare or rabbit, etc. Plain Stuffing {for veal, nmlton or rabbit). Mix the following ingredients ; 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 8 oz. of breadcrumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, i teaspoonful mixed herbs, and a piece of chopped lemon-rind. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and mix with one egg and one tablespoonfnl of milk, Sage and Onion Stuffing [for roast pork, duck or goose). Chop finely 2 oz. beef siiet, add to it 2 to 3 oz. breadcrumbs, I teaspoonful of mixed herbs, i teaspoonfiil of sage (powdered). Peel and par-boil a large-sized onion, chop it up finely, and add to the above. Mix well and moisten with sufficient cold milk to bind the mixture. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and use as required. Note.—If liked, the quantity of onion used may be increased. Oyster Forcemeat or Stuffing. Beard twelve large sauce oysters, save the liquor, and bring this and the beards with a gill of stock to the boil, allow to simmer till the flavour is extracted from the beards, then strain. Mix together four ounces freshly-made white breadcrumbs, a little grated lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of salt, a good dust of ground mace, and il- oz. of butter ; work into this the chopped oysters, an egg, and as much of the oyster stock as will bring the mixture to the proper consistency. Use for stuffing fish or poultry. Chestnut Stuffing {puree). Slit and blanch twenty-four Spanish chestnuts, peel them and cook till tender in well-seasoned rich stock, drain them, chop finely, and mix with three ounces of finely chopped fried fat bacon or ham and pound till smooth, adding one ounce of butter, a little rich stock or brown sauce to make it into the desired consistency of stuffing. Season to taste and use as required. Chestnut Stuffing. Slit, bake, peel, and coarsely chop twenty-four to thirty sound chestnuts, add to it four ounces of finely chopped veal suet, two ounces of breadcrumbs. Mix thoroughly, add a little rich stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Used for stuffing fowls, turkeys or other birds. Chestnut and Truffle Stuffing. For directions to prepare this stuffing see Roast Turkey stuffed with chestnuts (p. 610). Tomato Stuffing. A ripe tomato with a slight llavouring of garlic, and one chilli973 AUXILIARY RECIPES. or half a Spanish })imicnto, chopped together, constitute a delicions stuffing for quails or pigeons to be braised or roasted. If roasted, place a slice of toast under the bird when half cooked, and serve this with the bird. Sauerkraut {Chou-crontc). Select the required number of hrin, white, autumn cabbages, trim off the withered leaves, cut each head in half, and remove the stalks. Wash and drain the cabbages, then shred them finely (this is usually effected by means of a large vegetable sheer). Put the shredded cabbage in a large earthenware or oak tub, season each layer liberally with common salt, when the vessel is thus filled place the lid on the cabbage, and press it down with heavy weights. At the end of six weeks, when the fermentation is complete, it should be ready for use. It is generally cooked in its own liquor, with bacon, smoked sausages or pork. Chowder. Cut 2 lb. of fat salt jiork (belly-piece) into slices, and }iut them in a stew-pan with two peeled and sliced onions and a dessertspoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Bone a fresh haddock, or a slice of cod, and cut it into thin slices, and place thenr on the pork ; then put a layer of crushed biscuits (captains) on top ; season with salt and pepper. Add i-J- pint of water, lay a round of suet crust ])aste over the whole, cover the stew-pan, and let the contents cook slowly for about three hours. Skim well, and put it in a dish, pour over a glass of hot Madeira, also a little Jamaica pepper, garnish with stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters ; brown the paste slightly, and lay it over the whole, then serve. Potted Meat {made from cooked meat). Free the meat intended for potting from skin, bone and gristle, and fat, mince it finel}^ and pound in a mortar ; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, add butter and pound to a smooth paste. Rub through a hue sieve, and pot into jars. The proportion of butter to be used varies from four to six ounces to the pound of meat. Ham or salmon would require less butter than beef, veal, game or chicken, and so on. Potted Meat {made from raw mcai). The best kind of potted meat, such as beef, chicken or veal, is made by using the raw materials. After bones, skin, fat, and gristle are removed, pass the meat through a mincing machine, and put it into an earthenware hreproof jar, add the seasoning, mace, nutmeg, pepper, paprika or cayenne, and salt. x\llow about live ounces of clarified butter to the pound of meat, cover the jar with it, and place it into a moderate oven from two to three hours, according to quantity. Stir contents from time to time, and if found too dry add a little rich stock or white or brown sauce. When done, pound it whilst hot in a mortar and rub through a fine sieve. Press it next into potted meat jars. When quite cold pour974 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. over a layer of clarified butter, just enough to exclude the air. Keep it in a cool but dry place. For brown meats a little allspice and ground clove, in addition to other seasoning, should be used, as it improves the flavour. - Fleurons {Puff-paste crescents). These are used for garnishing entrees, etc.—Roll out some puff- paste (see p. 133) about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and stamp out as many crescent or half-moon shapes as may be required ; use a plain or crinkled pastry-cutter for this. Place the paste on a wetted baking-sheet, brush over with beaten egg-yolk, and bake in a sharp oven for about fifteen minutes. To Boil Ox-tongue. Wash a pickled or salted tongue, put into a pan containing enough water to well cover it, boil it for about three hours. Take out, skin while hot, and form into a nice shape. If to be served cold, brush over with clissolved meat glaze and decorate to taste with creamed butter or lard and garnish with chopped aspicxjelly. To Make Vanilla Essence. Home-made vanilla extract may be made by putting in a bottle six vanilla pods, cut finely ; then cover them with half a pint of alcohol and a gill of filtered water. In abont two weeks’ time the essence will be ready for use. An Ideal Vegetable and Fruit Slicer. An exceedingly handy slicer has recently been introduced, by the help of which vegetables, such as potatoes, cucumber, beetroot, carrots, turnips, radishes, etc., can be cut into very effective perforated slices. Each slice, by means of a gentle turn, is made into SOME OF THE SLICES PRODUCED BV THE IDEAL SLICER. IlOVV TO USE THE SLICER. a fluted surface. Every slice is of uniform thickness, light and pretty in appearance. When cooked, as in fried potatoes, the result is a perfect revelation.975 A U XI LI A R \ ■ RRCIPES. Trellice Potatoes, so much admired by all who have si-en and tasted them, are produced by the helj) of this sheer (see illustration on p. 974). Fruits, such as apples, pears, and bananas, if cut with this sheer have a much nicer appearance. Fruit salads or fruit trifles can be made most artistic when so prepared. This sheer can be obtained from best ironmongers ; if any diffi- culty is experienced, write to the Manager of the Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W. Toasted Bread {for dishing up and garnishing). For poached eggs, etc., cut the slices from a stale loaf of bread about hve-eighths of an inch thick; toast it and cut into rounds with a plain pastry-cutter a little larger than the eggs. For small birds or seakale and asparagus remove the crusts and cut into oblong pieces. For garnishing minces, fricassees, etc., cut the toasted bread into small scpiares or diamonds, or cut into inch and a half squares, and then into halves diagonally, making triangles. Lemon Curd for Lemon Cheese Cakes. ^ lemons, lO oz. of loaf su^ar, 2 oz. butter. 4 eKt^s. Grate two lemons hnely with a grater, strain the juice of the three lemons. Separate the whites of tw'o eggs, beat up two whole eggs with four yolks, put these ingredients into a clean dry saucepan, add the sugar and the butter, and stir the whole over a slow lire until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture resembles a thick cream-like syruj). It may be hot, but must not boil. Pour whilst warm into a dean and dry jar, tie it over with parchment paper or with a bladder, and keep it in a cool dry place till required. Note.—It is recommended to dissolve the lemon-juice with the sugar before adding the remainder of the ingredients. Tomato Conserve. 6 lb. tomatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger, -] oz. garlic, i ])int vinegar, I teaspoonful allspice, i talilespoonful .salt, i tablespoonful castor sugar. Procure the tomatoes quite ripe and bake them in the oven until tender ; remove the skin and place the tomatoes in a stone jar with the above ingredients. Mix together thoroughly and keep in a cool place for a few days. Rub the pulj), etc., through a sieve (silk or cotton), boil up in a copper or earthenware pan with a little more vinegar than sugar. Let cool, put it into bottles ; cork and seal well, and store away in a cool but dry place. Capsicums (green and red), shallots, and lemon-juice are sometimes used in the jire- paration of tomato conserve, but by using these it becomes more of a table condiment than a pure and simple tomato conserve with its natural llavour such as the above should }n'oducc. Bottled Mushrooms. Take one to two pounds \'ery small e\'en-sized button mushrooms, rub them with a dry cloth, trim ^ the stalks, peel or turn them if liked, then put them in a basi id sjirinkle over with jilenty of fine salt. Large button or cup mushrooms are treated in a similar976 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. manner, bnt the red portion and the stalks shonld be removed. Those mushrooms which are black round the stalk are unsuitable for preserving in bottles. Pour sufficient white wine vinegar, well diluted, over the mushrooms, and bring them slowly to the boil. Shake them while in the pan, pour off the liquid, and drain the mushrooms on sieves or cloth. Boil them a second time with a fresh lot of diluted vinegar. As soon as the boiling point is reached remove the pan from the hre and bottle when cool with enough ^unegar to keep the mushrooms well covered. Cork and seal. xA.nother way to bottle button mushrooms is to use water, salt, and lemon-juice, proceeding as above. The bottles as soon as corked must then be wrapped round with straw and steamed or boiled from two to three hours, according to size of bottles. The latter is a more tedious process than the former, but the mush- rooms will be found all the nicer. Puree of Peas {foy garnishing, etc.). Rub half a pint of well-drained, cooked green peas through a hue wire sieve, put it in a basin, work in one tablespoonful of whipped cream, and season with salt and pepper. Take a forcing-bag with a fancy pipe, hll it with the puree, and use. Boiled Rice {for Curry, etc.). Pick and wash four ounces Patna or Carolina rice. Put it in a stew-pan containing three pints boiling water slightly salted and flavoured with lemon-juice. Allow to cook fast from fifteen to twenty minutes. Pour off the water and drain the rice ; put it in a pan of cold water, and pour into a colander or sieve to drain. Place it in front of the fire or in the mouth of the oven to get dry and hot through, stirring it frequently to loosen or separate the grains. It is then ready for use. Dinner Rolls. 2 lb. Vienna flour, 2 oz. best lard, |- oz. German yeast, a teaspoonful salt, 1 pint water or milk and water. Sift the flour into a pan, add the salt and rub in the lard ; make a well in the centre, in it mix the yeast with a little tepid water and with very little flour, make into a sponge, cover, and let it sponge for forty-five minutes. Mix in gradually the water or milk and water, and work to a dough, smooth, but not too firm. Let it rise for an hour in a warm place. Make up into little bun shapes weigh- ing about an ounce each. Place them on a floured baking-sheet and set to prove for ten minutes. Bake in a well heated oven for about half an hour. Note.—The lard, instead of being rubbed into the flour, can be melted and added to the dough. German Rusks {Zwieback). 2 lb. Vienna flour, 3 oz. butter, oz. German yeast, I- pint milk, pint water, 3 oz. castor sugar, a pinch of salt. Proceed to make a sponge and dough as directed in the fore- going recipe. Melt the butter and work it into the dough. Divide977 AUXILIARY RECIPES. the dough into half-pounds and shape into large rolls, place them close together on a floured baking-sheet when proved, bake them from forty to forty-five minutes, and glaze with sweetened milk. This is called milk bread,” and when it is one or two days old it is cut uj) into even-sized slices, placed on wire trays, and dried in the oven till cpiite cris}). They are then called rusks or zwiebach. Piccalilli. Mixed pickles, with the addition of a strongly-spiced condi- ment sauce made with English mustard, are known as piccalilli. After having prepared the vegetables, such as buds of cauliflowers, French beans, small button onions, small gherkins, etc., sprinkle them freely with salt, put them into a large earthenware pan with a cover. Boiling vinegar is then poured over sufficient to cover the vegetables. The vinegar is reboiled on the second day and poured over once again, and on the third day the vegetables are put into bottles. The vinegar is then mixed with English mustard and curry, a little ginger, and a sprinkling of cayenne, and this mixture is poured into the bottles, which are then tightly corked. SOME USEFUL KITCHEN HINTS. To Keep Meat Glaze.—Pour the meat glaze into earthenware pots and cover with a layer of clarified butter. This will exclude the air, and wall keep the glaze good for some weeks. Dried Mushrooms.—Dried mushrooms are most useful for flavouring. They should be soaked in tepid w'ater for at least twelve hours. Stew' them in the same w'ater, and use for stew's or sauces, otherwise much of the flavour will be lost. Remnants of Cheese.—Stale cheese or scraps of Cheddar or Gruyere cheese must never be w'asted ; they should be grated linelv and be put aw'ay in a corked bottle. Grated cheese in a kitchen can be used for numerous purposes : for lla.vouring certain soups and sauces, for various “ gratin ” dishes, cauliflower, macaroni, omelets, savouries, sandwiches, etc. Tinned Goods.—Canned or tinned fish, fruit or vegetables should be removed from the tins or cans as soon as they are opened. It is unwise to keep preserves in tins when once opened. Bread for Thickening Sauces, etc.—Stale breadcrumbs free from crust cooked in certain sauces or stew's wall prove most helpful as a thickening ingredient in place of additional flour. The sauce must, of course, be passed through a sieve before serving. Grated Cheese in Onion Sauce.—Soubise or onion sauce will be greatly improved by the addition of one or two tablespoonfuls of grated parmesan cheese stirred in a few' minutes before serving. Preserving Eggs.—Eggs may be kept good for several weeks if packed in layers of fine salt and kept in a cool place. Another way of preserving eggs is to dissolve a teaspoonful of salicylic acid w'ith 3 QTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 978 a ])int of boiling water. When cold dip each egg into this solution, let them dry, and store them on egg-racks in a dry and airy place. They will thus keep fresh for six to eight weeks. How to Keep Yolks of Eggs.—\^'hen whites of eggs are used for clearing jellies, consommes or other pnrposes, and the yolks are not wanted till the next day, beat them up with a little cold water, and put them away in a cool place ; they will thus keep good. To Keep Truffles.—The contents of a bottle or tin of truffles once opened, should be put in a gallipot with enough sherry or marsala to well cover them, and may thus be kept for some days. To Keep Mushrooms.—Preserved mushrooms, tinned or bottled, once opened, should be kept covered with salted water or vinegar. They will thus keep good for several days. Dishing up.—In dishing up hot preparations, always use warm dishes. Where there is no hot closet or plate-rack, steep the dishes in hot water and wipe them. It is not wise to use the oven for heating dishes. Make it a practice to always wipe a dish before using it. Baking Hint.—Avoid slamming the oven door whilst a cake or delicate pastry is being baked. Remember that opening the door too often during the baking process has the tendency of pre- venting pastry or cake from rising. Hint on Boiling Fish.—Large or bulky hsh should be put on in tepid water, and smaller hsh, such as haddock, sole, trout, whiting, etc., in warm water, and so brought gradually to the boil ; one tablespoonfnl of salt should be added to every two quarts of water. Wasting Fuel.—Economy in fuel for cooking is not always prac- tised by cooks. It is a great mistake to hll up a grate to the top with coal and heat the stove so as to make the top red-hot. Keep the hre well burning, and add only a shovelful at a time. If this is done at the proper time, the oven will be in prime condition for baking, and the top will be hot enough for other cooking processes. Boiling Milk.—If milk is boiled before being used it is to render it free from germs and the possibility of causing infection. Too much attention to this cannot be paid. Milk is very apt to take up any poisonous germs that may be in the air, and boiling has provecl a sure preventative. Keeping Butter.—Butter can be kept perfectly sweet and cool by being wrapped in a damp muslin cloth and placed in a shallow dish containing a little cold water. The cold is produced by evapora- tion, the cloth absorbing the water. Egg-shells.—Where a stock-pot is kept a few egg-shells should be saved, washed, crushed, and allowed to simmer in the stock, as this will help to clarify the broth or liquor of the stock-pot. Stale Bread for Crumbing.—Scraps of unsoiled bread should be saved up and dried or baked to a very pale brown colour in anAUXILIARY RECIPES. 979 open, cool oven, then ponndcd in the mortar or crnshcd as finely as possible by means of a rolling-pin. When sifted these crumbs are always handy for crumbing and breading ])nri)oses. There are also other uses for which dried breadernmbs may be put to. Lemon and Orange Rinds.—Both these should be peeled thinly and dried in the oven, then pounded and sifted. A small cpiantity of lemon-rind added to chicken, veal, and mutton_ stews or force- meat mixtures will improve the llavour. Orange-rind can be used to season brown sauces and in puddings, but only small quantities must be used in either case. POPULAR CUPS, AMERICAN DRINKS, ETC. Hock Cup.—Rub 2 oz. sugar on to the thinly pared rind of two lemons, pound it, and jilace it in a l)owl with the strained juice, a liqueur-glassful each of cura9ao and chartreuse, and a quart of iced hock. Stir well, add two bottles of iced soda water, and serve. Moselle Cup.—Put a bottle of iced moselle into a bowl, add two liqueur- glassfuls of Curasao, the thinly pared rind of half a lemon, three slices of pineapple, a bottle of iced seltzer water, and sugar to taste, then serve. Pineapple Cup.—Peel a pineapple, and put the rind into a pan with 4 oz. sugar and half a pint of water, bring to the boil and skim. Slice the pineapple thinly, sift it with 2 oz. coated sugar, j)lace it in a bowl, strain the pineapple syrup over it, and let it stand on ice for five or six liours, then add a quart of iced hock or moselle, and a bottle of iced soda water, and serve. Chablis Cup.—To two bottles of chablis add half pound of loaf sugar dissolved in one pint water, the thinly cut rind of a lemon, mi.x and add three bottles of iced seltzer water and thin slices of lemon. Claret Cup.—To two bottles of claret add half pound loaf sugar dis- solved in one pint of water, half ounce of cinnamon, half ounce of coriander seeds, three bottles soda water, and thin slices of lemon. Claret Punch.—Put to a bottle of claret two glasses of sherry, one liqueur glass of Curasao, castor sugar to taste, a few leaves of verbena, some cucumber-rind, and very thinly sliced lemon-rind, a few borage and balm leaves, and add two bottles of soda water. Badminton Cup.—Mix a bottle of claret with a bottle of soda water, two glasses of sherry, a tablespoonful of castor sugar, and add a spray or two of borage. Maitrank or Moselle Cup.—This is the name of a favourite German drink. It is best made in a punch-bowl with a large piece of ice in it. Pour a bottle of hock or moselle wine over the ice, add two l:)ottles of seltzer or soda water, sugar to taste, and a small bottle of Maitrank, which is a delicious flavouring made from the blossoms of the sweet woodruff (Waldmeister), which flowers in the woods during the montli of May ; hence the drink is known as iMaitrank, Cider Cup.—One quart of cider in a jug, a pinch of balm or borage, three slices of lemon, an orange sliced, a small glass of sherry, one ofTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 980 brandy and a little maraschino, mix with two bottles of soda water, and add some broken ice. Cider Cup (No. 2).—Put a quart of iced cider into a large jug, add a s])rig of green mint, six lumps of sugar previously rubbed on to the rind of a lemon and then poundecl, a wineglassful of sherry and one of Curasao, and lastly two bottles of iced soda water. Bacchus Cup.—Pour into a clean jug one bottle of champagne, half pint of sherry, quarter pint of brandy, one wineglassful of noyeau, a few slices of cucumber with rind left on, 4 oz. of castor sugar, and some crushed ice. Before serving, add two bottles of seltzer or potash water. Fruit Punch.—Boil a quart of water with | lb. of loaf sugar and half a chopped pineapple for twenty minutes, add one cupful of orange-juice and half a cupful of lemon-juice. Strain when cold, and serve with crushed ice. Port Wine Sherbet.—To half a pint of syrup add a handful of stoned Malaga raisins and a small piece of cinnamon, also the juice of two oranges and that of a lemon. Boil up, and add a pint of port wine. Strain and let cool, then freeze in the usual manner. Just before serving stir in an ounce of chopped and peeled almonds slightly browned in the oven. Mulled Wine.—Port or claret is usually selected for this j)urpose. To a bottle of either allow half-pint of water, two cloves, an inch of whole cinnamon and a good grate of nutmeg, and two strips of lemon-rind and sugar to taste. Boil the water and spices in a clean saucepan, add the sugar (2 oz. of loaf sugar being the average proportion). Add the wine, and after allowing it to boil up it will be ready to serve. Thin wafer biscuits or shavings of toasted or baked bread should be served with it. Milk Punch.—Boil a quart of milk with J lb. of loaf sugar. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and add a little cold milk and nutmeg. Stir this into the boiling milk and stir over the fire till the mixture thickens. Add a glass of brandy and a tablespoonful of noyeau. Pour it into a basin or jug and let cool, and add some crushed or pounded ice. Christmas Punch.—To one pint of hot tea (use green tea for preference) add half a pint of lemon-juice, one pint of rum or half brandy and rum, one quart of syrup, three cloves, one orange (cut into slices), and one pint of water. Bring the whole to the boil and serve in a punch bowl. Brandy Punch.—Put a gill of water into a large glass, add two teaspoon- fuls of castor sugar, a tablespoonful of raspberry syrup, the strained juice of half a lemon and orange, and thin slices of pineapple and a gill of brandy. Fill up the glass with shaved ice, and serve. Banana Liqueur.—Three-parts fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles with sliced ripe sound bananas. Fill up with good brandy, cork the bottles tightly, and infuse for a month, shaking occasionally, then strain. Boil half pint of water and i lb. of pure cane sugar together for five minutes, skim, and let it get cold. Sweeten the brandy to taste with the syrup, then store in air-tight bottles. Banana Ratafia.—Put three pints of peeled and thinly sliced bananas into a jar, add i oz. of blanched and pounded bitter almonds, half an inch of bruised cinnamon, two quarts of pure rectified spirits of wine, and I lb. of crushed sugar candy. Cover the jar closely and infuse for three months, then filter and bottle.981 A i\ I Eli ICA N DRINKS. Banana Shrub. -Put a cjuart ot peeled and thinly sliced hananas into a jar, add the thinly pared rind and strained jnice of a lemon, three j)ints ol good old Jamaica rum, and 10 oz. of pure cane sugar. Cover the jar closely and infuse for two months, shaking it daily, then filter, and store in air-tight bottles. Banana Water.—Rub 2 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of a lemon and jmt it into a jug with the strained juice, three peeled and thinly sliced bananas, and a pint of boiling water. Cover over and leave for six hours, then strain and serve. A little rum may be added to the water, and, if liked, it may be iced. Barberry Brandy.—Put j lb. of crushed barberries and 3 lb. of jmre cane sugar into a large jar, add two quarts of good brandy, cover closely, and infuse for ten days, then strain through filtering jiaper, and store in air-tight bottles. American Lemonade.—Put a tablesi)oonful of castor sugar and the strained juice of a lemon into a large tumbler with a wineglassful ot water and half fill it with shaved ice. Add a large tablespoonful of strawberry syrup, and hll up with soda water. Put a slice of lemon or orange on the top, and serve with a straw. American Tea Punch.—Put one pint of hot tea into a bowl, add 2 oz. castor sugar, the strained juice of a small lemon, and a gill each of good brandy and Jamaica rum. Place in an ice-cave until cold, then serve in wine glasses, with thinly cut slices of lemon. Martini Cocktail.—Half-fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add half a wine- glassful each of Italian vermouth and unsweetened gin, a dash of orange bitters, and castor sugar to taste. Serve with a strip of lemon-rind on the top. Mint Julep.—Put six sprigs of fresh mint into a tumbler, add a liqueur- glassful each ol brandy and peach brandy, and sugar to taste, and fill up with chipped ice. Nectar.—Mix together a large teaspoonful of honey, a few droj)s of lemon-juice, a wineglassful of cognac and half a pint of hot cider, and j)lace the glass in ice till required. Pineapple Julep.—Put a gill each of gin and raspberry syrup into a jug, add the strained juice of a large orange, | gill of maraschino, f lb. crushed ice, a sliced pineapple cut into small pieces, and lastly a bottle of sparkling moselle, and serve in small glasses. Saratoga.—Half-fill a large tumber with shaved ice, add a wineglassful of brandy, two teaspoonfuls of maraschino, one of Angostura bitters, two of pineapple juice, and castor sugar to taste. Shake well, strain into another tumbler, add half a glass of champagne, and serve with one or two ripe strawberries and a strip of lemon-rind on the to]). Sensation.—Put the strained juice of an orange and half a lemon, two slices of pineajqile, a tablespoonful of rasjrberry syrup or vinegar, a gill of brandy, and sugar to taste into a large tumbler and fill up with well- iced soda water. Sherry Cobbler.— Half-fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add two teaspoon- luls of strained orange-juice, one of sugar, and a gill of .sherry, shake well, and serve with a straw.gS2 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Silver Dream.—Mix together a wineglassful of good unsweetened gin, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, the beaten white of an egg, a dessertspoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a tablespoonful of shaved ice. Fill up the tumbler with iced seltzer water. Silver Fizz.—Well beat the white of an egg, add a wineglassful of gin, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Pour on to half a tumblerful of shaved ice, shake well, strain into a glass containing a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a good pinch of carbonate of soda, and serve quickly. Sloe-gin Cocktail.—Half-fill a glass with shaved ice, add a wineglassful of sloe gin, and a dash of orange bitters, and serve. Strawberry Fizz.—Crush four large ripe strawberries, and put them into a glass with a few drops of lemon-juice, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a wineglassful of gin, then fill up with iced soda water. Sunrise.—Half-fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add a teaspoonful of Angostura bitters, a large tablespoonful of brandy, two of sherry, and sugar and vanilla essence to taste. Shake well and serve with a strip of lemon-rind on the top. Whisky Sour.—Mix together equal quantities of good whisky and lemon-juice, and ice well before serving. Whisky Cocktail.—Put two large tablespoonfuls of whisky and a tea- spoonful of Angostura bitters into a glass, add sugar to taste, and two drops of cinnamon essence, and 6 oz. shaved ice. Brandy Cocktail.—Half-fill a large tumbler with shaved ice, add half a gill of brandy, half a gill of curayao and ginger syrup mixed, and two teaspoonfuls of orange bitters. Brandy Mint Julep.—Put two small lumps of sugar into a tumbler with a wineglassful of brandy, and when dissolved add two sprigs of fresh mint and a little shaved ice. Place a thin slice of pineapple and orange on the top, and serve. Ching-Ching.—Put a gill of Jamaica rum into a large glass, add a slice of orange, two drops of essence of cloves, one drop of essence of pepper- mint, and fill up with iced soda water or shaved ice. Jamaica Toddy.—Soak the thinly peeled rind of a large lemon in a gill of water for six hours, then strain, add a thin slice of pineapple, five ripe strawberries, 2 oz. shaved ice, and a gill of Jamaica rum. Lemon Squash.—Half-fill a glass with shaved ice, add the strained juice of a large lemon, and castor sugar to taste, fill up with iced soda water, and serve. Manhattan.—Put half a winegiassful each of whisky and vermouth into a glass, add a dash of Curasao and Angostura bitters, and sugar to taste. Fill up with shaved ice shake and serve with a thin slice of lemon on the top.9^3 CHAPTER XLII. THE ART OF CARVING. Let’s carve him as a dish lit for the Rods, Not hew him as a carcase tit for hounds.—Shakespeare. Carving is an art, and one which anyliody, with a knowledge of a few general directions that are necessary, can easily acquire. To become an e.xpert carver, one must practise, and the beginner cannot commence too soon. As a rule, the art of carving at table is better understood in England and English homes than on the Continent, where carving is generally left to the cook or the waiter. The expert carver must possess what may be termed a graceful combination of science with art, skill, and economy. That meat tastes, as well as looks, differentlv and better if it is cut the right way is admitted by everyone. No matter how well the cook has done his or her part, if a joint be hacked or mutilated to pieces, it can neither be enjoyed at the time, nor can it well be served up cold ; thus a good joint may be actually wasted for want of knowing the general directions and rules that govern the cutting up of joints and birds. It is of great importance that all managers, superintendents, stewards, and housekeepers should be prohcient in the art of carving. The principles are simple enough and quickly acquired by the ordinary housekeeper as well as the busy head of kitchen or dining- room. The two fundamental principles to be learnt and invariably observed before success in carving may be expected are— 1. To have a knowledge of the natural construction of the various pieces to be cut up. 2. To know how to properly handle the carving tools, and kceji them in the right positipn while carving. The last includes both the position of the carver as well as that of the particular piece (joint or bird) to be carved. Meat, etc., to be carved must be laid on a dish containing but very little or no gravy or sauce, nor garnishing, to enable the can’er to turn it to the most convenient position required for the purpose. A proper set of carving tools is almost indispensable, and should comprise ; (a) A solid two or three-pronged fork. (b) A good thin, sharp-bladed knife. (c) A pair of carving scissors. A bird or a joint of meat badly carved will prove wasteful, because fewer ])ersons will be served than would be when well and properly carved. Anything which needs to be carved at table should be placed on a dish sufficiently large to allow the joint to be turned.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 984 if needed, without moving the dish from its position. The dish should be placed close in front of the carver. The knife used for carving must be light and sharp, and of a convenient size. Such joints as ham, veal, and beef should be cut very thin ; while pork, lamb, and mutton should be cut a trifle thicker. The carver ought also to be acquainted with the choice cuts of each kind of joint. To Carve Fish.—A silver sheer or trowel should be used for this pur- pose; a steel knife applied to flsh often spoils the delicacy of its flavour. Great care must be taken in serving out flsh to prevent breaking the flakes, which ought to be kept as entire as possible. Short-grained flsh, such as salmon, etc., should be cut lengthwise, not crosswise. To Carve Sirloin of Beef.—A sirloin should be cut into thin slices, with a sharp, Arm cut from end to end of the joint. At the upper portion the cut should be clean and even ; then use the point of the knife to loosen the slices from the bones. In carving the under- cut remove the superfluous fat, and cut the slices from end to end in the same manner as the upper portion. Be careful always to cut down straight to the bone of a sirloin or rib of beef ; by so doing you will not spoil the appearance of fhe joint, and what remains will look tidy. To Carve a Neck of Veal or Mutton.—See that the neck is properly jointed before it is cooked. Cut the joint diagonally from the left- hand side into slices of moderate thickness. To Carve Loin of Veal.—Cut out the kidney, turn the joint over, and carve into slices of moderate thickness. Serve a slice of kidney and fat with each slice of meat, having first inquired of the guest if the former are desired. To Carve a Leg or Loin of Pork.—In carving either of these the knife must follow in the lines marked out or scored by the cook before fhe meat is roasted o n the skin which forms the crack- ling, the skin when roasted being usually . .... .. ..K.. too crisp to The lines indicate the way in which cutlets oj chops be COllveni- shoiild he divided, e n 11 y C U t through with the knife. It frequently happens that the lines scored on a leg of pork are too far apart for single cuts ; when this is the case the crackling must be raised to enable one to cut thinner slices. Always cut the meat across the grain, not lengthways. A little seasoning should be placed on the side of the plate, also apple sauce, if such is served, which is usually fhe case, but it is better to hand both round in separate bowls.THE AlU OF CAUVINO. 9«5 To Carve a Rabbit or Hare. -In eitlier ease fust scpaiatn tlie lags and shoulders, then ent the back jxnt across, into two ])ar(s. This is best accomplished by inserting the knife into the joint, and raising np the back by means of the fork. Tlic back or lillet part is considered the best portion of a hare or rabbit. To Carve a Ham. -Ham shonld be cut through to the l)onc hrst from the centre or near the tliin end. The slices must be ent thin. Always commence entting from the upper side. The fairest way HOW TO CARVE by far, so as to serve fat and lean evenly, is to begin entting from the centre of the thickest part, and to ent thin circular slices ; by this means the tfavonr of the ham is far better, and it will prove to be the more economical mode of serving. To Carve a Shoulder of Mutton.—This joint is nsnally sent to table lying on the dish the reverse side to that which is shown in the illustration. It should then be turned over. Commence carving into slices, more in the shape of a wedge at the end. Serve a small slice cut from the bladebone end to each guest. All slices should be cut through to the bone, as shown in the illustration. The under parts of a shoulder are considered the most delicate, but it is for the carver, when possible, to ascertain as to which jxrrt of the joint i^ preferred. HOW TO CARVE A SHOULDER OF Ml'TTOX.986 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. To Carve a Haunch of Venison.—First cut it across lengthways down to the bone ; then turn the dish with knuckles furthest from you and commence cutting slices from the centre of either side of the cut first made ; cut down as deep as possible. The knife should be held m a sloping position when making the first cut. Venison should never be cut in very thick slices, and plenty of good gravy should be served with each portion. See that both meat and gravy are very hot, and that some red-currant jelly is handed round at the same time. To Carve a Leg of Mutton.—The simplest way to carve a leg of mutton is to take hold of the bone end with the left hand, to cut the portion marked A with a firm stroke of the knife ; next to make a sharp incision down to the bone at B. Cut slender slices from A to C, then loosen the slices from the bone, turn the leg and cut the under portion in the same manner. Another way is to reverse the leg, commencing to cut at D, cutting the slices 1-3, and then proceeding in a similar way as above described. To Carve a Saddle of Mutton, Lamb or Venison.- In many estab- lishments a saddle of mutton or larnb is cut into slices lengthwise A SADDLE OF MUTTON. —i.e. from neck to tail, A to B. This is considered the correctrilE ART OP CARVING. <J«7 way, but it is by no means an economical way. After having carved the underneath, hllet part of a saddle, it should be turned as shown in the illustration, cut with a sharp knife across fhe top line, A to B, close to the bone, then cut into slices, commencing at the left hand, from A to C, kee})ing the knife close to the bone so as to avoid waste in carving ; the slices should be about half an inch tliick. The chump and slices near B need not be cut quite so thick. good gravy and red-cnrrant jelly should always be served with this roast. To Carve an Ox-Tongue.—Commence cutting from the middle of the tongue ; cut the slices not too thin and take them from each side, being careful not to cut the slices through to the bottom part of the tongue. The extreme end of the tip and the lower part of the tongue are generally used up for chopping in salpicons, etc. A little of the fat shoidd also be put on each plate. When rolled tongue is served it must be cut horizontally into rather thin slices. To Carve a Steak.—This is a very simple matter ; rump steak, porterhouse steak or sirloin steak is cut into fairly thick pieces, right across the steak. A little fat, gravy, and scraped horse-radish should accompany each portion. To Carve a Calf’s Head.—Begin by making long slices from end to end of the cheek, cutting cpiite through to the bone, as shown by the dotted lines from A to B. With each of these slices serve a cut of a little of what is called the throat-sweetbread, which lies at the fleshy part of the neck end. Cut also slices from C to D— these are gela- tinous and most delicate — a n d serve small pieces with the meat. A little of the tongue and a spoonful of the brains are usually placed on each plate. The tongue is best “ 1 C.\r,F S HEAD. served on a sepa- rate plate, surrounded by the brains, and is cut across in rather thin slices. Some iiersons prefer the eyes part, which is removed by a circular cut marked by dotted lines at E. First put the knife in slanting at F, inserting the point at the part of the dotted line, and driving it into the centre988 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. under the eye ; then turn the hand around, keeping the circle of the dotted line with the blade of the knife. This portion should be cone-shaped at the under part, when the circle is completed by the knife. The lower jaw must next be removed, beginning at G ; and to do this correctly the dish must be turned. The palate is also considered a dainty, and a little of it might always be offered to each guest. To Carve a Turkey.—A turkey is usually large enough for a small company, so that the breast and wings, which are con- sidered the best parts, generally suffice. The slices should be cut from each side of the breast alternately, beginning close to the wing. A little stuffing or a small piece of liver ought to be served to each guest. The manner of cutting the slices is shown in the illustra- tion. When it The lines indicate how the bird should be carv^ed. jg necessary for the legs to be carved, they should be severed from the body and then cut into slices. A —HOW TO CARVE THE I.EG PORTION OF A DUCK. Insert the fork firmly into the leg of the bird, and cut the skin through between the leg and brca.st, then turn the duck on its side and cut through, tlius removing the leg as shown in the illustration. To Carve a Duck.—A young duck or duckling is carved very much the same as a fowl. First cut off the wing portions. The989 THE ART OF CARVING. first slices of the breast should be cut close to the wing, proceeding upwards to the centre of the breast (breast-bone). The legs are next removed and cut in two at the joints. If stuffed, an open- ing should be made at the end portion of the cluck, and the stuffing scooped out with a spoon, allowing a small portion to each guest. A large duck is carved in the same way as a goose. B.—HOW TO CARVE THE WING PORTION OF A DUCK. After cutting through the tlesh of the wing, as indicated by the white line, press back the wing and separate it by the help of a knife and fork from the socket where the wing joins the body of the duck. To Carve a Goose.—Stick the fork into the centre of the breast, hold firmly, and commence to carve slices from the neck down the breast, as shown in the illustration. Remove the wings and leg-bones, and commence carving the re- mainder of the goose, leaving nothing but the carcase. Note.—See also illustrations on carving a duck. To Carve Partridges, Woodcocks, etc.—Put the fork into the breast, cut a slice from the outside of the breast, then cut close A GOOSE (lines indicate manner of carving).990 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. along the l:)reast-bonc, severing the wings and legs from the carcase. The favonrite ])arts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and the so-called merrythonght. To Carve a Chicken, Capon or Poularde.—Stick the carving-fork firmly into the leg, hold firmly down on the dish, lift it np and loosen with the knife, cutting through the joint at the back. Divide it in two at the second joint. Then cut off the wings, and lastly the breast, each being cut in half cross- wise. In carving a fowl, roasted or braised whole, one should make eight or ten portions—that is, two wings, two pieces of the breast, two of the back, and each leg divided into two pieces, which makes ten in all. Note.—See also illustrations on carving a fowl. Some people prefer to lay the bird on its side, and then proceed to carve in the same manner as above described. In helping roast pheasant or fowl, add some of the cress with which it is garnished ; always serve bread sauce and gravy with roast poultry. Carving a Fowl.—The following two illustrations show an easy method of carving these birds. The principle is equally applicable to a pheasant or any bird large enough to be dismembered. A POULET OR CHICKEN. A.—Illustrating the correct way of carving the “ leg portion ” of a fowl, which is effected by inserting the fork firmly into lower part of the leg, then cntling through the section connecting the leg anil breast, thns detaching the leg from the body.THE ART OF CARVING. 90r B.—Illustrating the correct way of carving the “wing portion’’ of a fowl: The knife being tightly fixed into the body as far as the socket. The “ lireast,” as well as the “leg” portions, after being cut, are often divided in twos, espcciallv so when the bird is large. To Carve a Grouse, Partridge, Plover or Woodcock.—These birds are cut up similar to a fowl, and unless too small, as would be the case with snipe and quails, they may be cut into quarters, otherwise in THE CORRECT WAY OF JOINTING A SMALL BIRD. HOW TO DIVIDE OK CUT UP A PIGEON INTO FOUR PORTIONS. halves. Some birds are cut so as to make three portions. The backbone of a woodcock is considered by some epicures a tit-bit, whilst others consider the thigh to be the most delicate morsel. InTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. other respects the breast and wing portions are accepted as the best bits of almost any kind of bird, tame or wild. The following cuts illustrate the various parts of pheasant, woodcock, and snipe as they should look when properly carved or Leg (Jamhc) iointed. Small generally birds are served on toasted bread, which should be seasoned with some of the dripping obtained whilst roasting. A small piece of toast should accompany each plate, also some brown (fried) breadcrumbs, bread sauce, and gravy, CHALET RUSTiQUE A LA CHANTILLY (for directions see p. 821).993 CHAPTER XLIII. TABLE SERVICE (SERVICE DE TABLE). However able a chef de cuisine may be, his best efforts will not receive-the full meed of praise which is their due if the dining-room service is not perfect. As that prince of gastronomic penmen, Monsieur Clratilon Plessis, has justly said, the dining-room is the gourmet’s theatre, the table his stage. Now" if the “ play ” is to be enjoyed the “ theatre ” must be comfortable, the stage of adequate dimensions, the “ scenic ” accessories as complete and beautiful as circumstances will allow. The success of the dinner, as that of the play, depends largely upon the skilful “ staging.” This means that a dining-room should be not only a comfortable but a cheerful room, furnished appropriately, while the tables should be laid or “ set ” with a view not only to supply the needs of diners as each dish is brought on, but with the direct design of pleasing the eye. All artistic productions require suitable framing. Snowy drapery, sparkling glass, bright silver and steel, with graceful flowers and foliage, are as necessary to the proper appreciation of a well- cooked meal as is an apjn'opriate mounting to the setting off of a precious gem. The artistic folding of serviettes is another important item ; indeed, it is an art in itself, and should be thoroughly understood by the maitre d’hotel as well as the waiter. Let it not be supposed that this is a mere triviality. The “ maitre d’hotel ” fully knows how these “ trifles ” tell in the general impression received by guests. Although rich materials make it easier to obtain good effects, the artistic soul may produce excellent results, even with humble articles, if properly utilised. The first principles in table- laying are absolute cleanliness and systematic orderliness. Let us see how these two cardinal virtues apply to the subject in hand. First, then, the table must be carefullv chosen : be it square, oblong or round, it should be firm, of the proper height, and, whenever possible, adapted to the occasion ; that is to say, having due regard to the style of the repast and the number of guests. It should be so placed that adequate light is afforded to every member of the party ; but this consideration presents no difficulties when artificial illuminants are to be used. We must now take into consideration the dressing of the table. The tablecloth should be of good damask, with artistic but not too obtrusive a pattern. It is essential that it should be of a pure white, and, moreover, that it should be carefully ironed and neatly folded. A badly 3 R994 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. folded cloth invariably looks untidy ; but if the creases are long and the cross folds far apart greater smoothness is obtained. The elaborate cohmred and embroidered centre-cloths have gone out of fashion, and it is well that it should be so ; but a judicious use of tinted satins, silks, and ribbons deserves to be encouraged. Such centre-pieces, however, should be strictly proportionate to the size of the table and the style of the floral decorations. Neither in texture nor in colour should they be too prominent. Another happy innovation of the last decade or two is that table decorations are kept low. On grand banquet occasions massive silver centre-pieces, with flowers and fruit, great candelabra, and so on, are admissible ; but, as a rule, flowers and foliage are laid on the cloth, and single blossoms or small groups placed in miniature specimen glasses. Plants, except on big tables, are diminutive, the pots hidden in tiny silver or porcelain vases. The aim is that guests should always enjoy an unobstructed view. In the best houses flowers and fruit are placed on the table from the first. This certainly adds to the elegance of the general effect. Much ingenuity—and money—can be spent in working out a “ scheme of colour,” a certain tint playing a dominant note, not only in the floral decorations, but even in the garnishing of dishes. But this is a matter for exceptional adoption. Menu cards may be plain or elaborate. If plain cards are used, they are generally placed in silver frames or small holders, which sometimes take the form of china shells or mounds with slits in which the bottom of the card is placed. At informal meals a menu may be placed between two people, and this plan largely prevails in restaurants ; but at formal dinner-parties individual cards are necessary. The name cards may be placed either on the napkin or in separate holders. At the better-class hotels and restaurants plain cards with monograms or armorial bearings are usual, elaborate cards Ijeing reserved for special occasions. Individual salt cellars, preferably in cut glass, are provided in the best houses, with miniature cruets—pepper and mustard or pepper, mustard, and vinegar—placed between every two guests. Oil and vinegar cruets and sauce cruets are only brought forward when necessary. It used to be the fashion to surround a guest’s place with a formidable battle-array of forks, spoons, knives, and squads of glasses. This lavishness still prevails in some quarters, and, no doubt, when heavy dinners and quick service are demanded this practice may be excused. It is, however, now considered better style not to embarrass diners with too many articles ; so on carefully laid tables we generally find soup spoon, fish eaters, large and small forks and knives, and dessert spoon. If more forks and knives are required they are brought on with the clean plates. In the same way we now only see three glasses—sherry, champagne, and claret or tumbler—other glasses being added if required. Coloured glasses are no longer considered in good taste, White glass, plain orTABLE SERVICE {SERVICE DE TABLE). 005 beautifully cut aucl engraved, is fashionable. The water carafe is now much in evidence. As regards bread, small rolls are usual. They arc j)laced in the napkin, and others handed when asked for. i\fany peoj)le, liowever, only take wholemeal bread or dry toast ; these are cut in thin slices and placed on small plates on the left hand of the guests. Even when a room is lit by electricity or gas, dwarf candlesticks or lamps are often used on the table, the lights being .shaded by .silk shapes of red or some other harmonising tint. As regards the menu, over-elaboration is generally avoided. On ordinary occasions oysters or hors-d'oeuvres, soup, tisli, two meat dishes, vegetables and potatoes, game or poultry ; and perhaps a salad, a pudding, cheese, savoury, and coffee will suffice. The carte du jour in a good house will, of course, comprise a score or more dishes. HOW TO WAIT AT TABLE. Everyone knows how much careful waiting at table adds to the success of any meal, so that I need not here dwell upon its import- ance, but shall at once deal with the practical part and give tlie needed instructions and rules. The style of waiting, whetlier for a private or public dinner or other meal, is practically the same, although the method of execution in the service may differ somewhat. To begin with, the waiter must be well acquainted with the menu and its contents, for this will guide him as to the quantity of table service, etc., needed. An intelligent waiter can well manage to serve six guests properly. He must see that each person is served with bread, butter, beverages as often as these are needed, and they must be kept at hand. Waiters must pay strict attention to the following elementary blit essential rules :— See that every plate, knife, fork, spoon, glass, cuj), saucer, and dish placed before guests is properly clean. Afake it a practice to wipe the bottom of every dish before jilacing it on the table, and when found necessary the edges of dishes should be wiped with a towel or napkin before presenting same at table. Plates and dishes must be cleared with as little noise as possible. Soiled plates, glasses, etc., should never be allowed to aci'umulate in a dining-room. Never place a spoon in a guest's soup-plate, coffee or tea cup, or indeed into any liquid food, because it is the custom that the guest, and not the waiter, should have that privilege. When serving tea, coffee, milk or any other kind of drink, special care must be taken not to spill the contents, so that the under jdate or saucer is clean and dry when placed on the table. In filling glasses with water or wine, do not fill them right up.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 996 A waiter, when speaking to guests or when handing anything to them, should avoid bringing his face into close contact with that of the guest, this being considered very objectionable. The following is the order of serving the various courses of a dinner :— Hors-d’oeuvre.—These, with the exception of oysters, are usually dished up on little china or glass dishes and placed on the table before the commencement of the meal. As soon as the guests are seated the hors-d’ceuvre is handed from the left-hand side of the guest. When oysters are served the same rule applies : these are accompanied with a plate of thinly-cut brown bread and butter, and quarters of lemon, which must be handed round at the same time. The Removal of Plates must be effected from the left, and must be done as noiselessly as possible. Special stress must be laid upon this ; the rule should be strictly observed throughout the meal when the changing of plates takes place. Note.—On the Continent it is customary to effect the removal and replacing of plates from the right. The Soup. —As soon as the hors-d’ceuvre plates are removed the soup should be brought in, and unless served from the side- board or serving table the tureen containing the soup must be placed at the head of the table, with a ladle. The soiip plates, unless a frappe or iced consomme is served, must be hot. The waiter handing the soup should take care to place it in front of the guest from a position on the right, though it must be remembered that all other dishes are presented to the guests from the left. Wine is generally served immediately after the soup. The removal of the soup plates should not be effected till every one has finished, when the changing of plates takes place. The Fish is next served, with or without sauce, according to the style of dish described on the menu. Dressed fish or fish entrees are handed round in the dish, whilst whole fish or large pieces of boiled fish, etc., are frequently carved from the head of the table or from the sideboard ; when such is the case the plates are served to the guests in the same way as the soup. It is usual to hand a dish of plain boiled potatoes with all boiled fish, and lemon with fried fish. The Entrees.—As the fish plates are removed they must be replaced by hot or cold plates, as the case may be. Chaud-froid entrees, cold mousses, etc., require cold plates, whilst for all other entrees the plates must be hot. The entrees, in the order given on the menu, are now served. The Joint and Vegetables.—The joint of roast meat is invariably carved in the dining-room, and the slices are placed on hot plates with a little gravy, and handed to the guests in the same order as997 TABLE SERVICE (SERVICE UE TABLE). before mentioned. Vegetables, usually two kinds, are served in their dishes and presented to the guests from the left side. The Roast.—When a joint of meat is served the roast usually consists of a bird, poultry or game, accompanied by fried potatoes and salad. These are served and handed round in the same way as the joint. A separate plate (salad plate) is generally provided and placed at the side of the large plate on which the salad is served. The Sweets.—The plates from the roast, knives, and forks having been removed, small plates, so-called pudding plates, are pur in front of the guests. For hot puddings or other hot sweets the plates must of course be hot. When two sweets are served the second dish is always cold. If the pudding is large it may be con- venient to have it carved at the sideboard, but it is more usual to have them handed round the same as the entree. The Savoury.—As soon as the guests have hnished eating the sweets, the plates must be changed for small hot plates upon which tlie savoury is served. Savouries are, as a rule, prepared hot, and in very small portions, bonnes-bouches or mouthfuls. In addition to the plate a small fork should be placed at the side of each guest. The dish is handed round like the entree. Cheese.—The sweet plates are next changed for cheese plates, with a small knife placed on each. The cheese should be accom- panied by dry biscuits and pulled bread and small pats of fresh butter. At this stage the table should be cleared of all glasses, S])oons, etc. ; the crumbs must be carefully removed with a silver scoop t)r napkin, after which the dessert plates are put on the table. Dessert is next served. In addition to the dessert plate^, a dessert knife and fork and a finger glass with perfumed water are placed before each guest. Clean wine-glasses are also served at this stage with the dessert wine. After this come the coffee and liqueurs, which form_the end of the x'ei)ast. THE SERVICE OF WINES. Tlie main thing, and one which needs special consideration in serving wines at a meal, is that they are at the right tcmjxcrature when served out into the glasses. At many houses only one or, at the nu)st, two kinds of wine are now served throughout the meal, and these are either claret, or Burgundy and champagne, or champagne 011130 The ancient custom, which is still in vogue among ejiicures and gourmets of the old school, is that a different kind of wine should accompany each distinct course. iModern diners, however, have jiractically dispensed with the old custom, the present fashion for a recherche dinner being that a glass of good old pale sherry is served with the soup, after which998 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. champagne takes the lead, and continues to be served nntil the dessert, when port and old claret are placed npon the table. The following is the correct classihcation of wines as served with the various courses Chablis or Sauterne with Hors-d'oeuvre. Sherry or Marsala with Soup. Hock or Sauterne with Fish. Claret or Burgundy with Entrees and Removes. Champagne with Roast and Entremets. Port, Claret or Madeira with the Dessert. The custom of serving at least six kinds of wine at dinner—that is, a different kind with each course—was, until a few years ago, observed at the royal tables ; in fact. His Majesty King Edward VH. used at one time to be very much in favour of a coiu'se of various wines at dinner, but of late years the number and kind of wines have been reduced to two or three at the most. It is very probable that ere long a general custom will become a generally accepted rule, that only two kinds of wine are served at the recherche dinner-table. THE TEMPERATURE OF WINE, Respecting the proper temperature of the wines served, the following table, compiled by a wine expert, gives the exact degrees of Fahr. various kinds of wine should be when being poured out to the guests :— Sherry and Marsala, 40° Fahr. ; Sauterne or other White Claret, 50° Fahr. ; Claret, 65° Fahr. ; Burgundy, 70° Fahr. ; Chablis and other White Burgundy, 45° Fahr. ; Champagne, 35° Fahr. ; Port, 55° Fahr. ; Madeira, 65° Fahr. It is not considered correct ever to })ut ice in any kind of wine. Champagne and similar wines should, of course, be served cold, but the temperature must be lowered in bottle, not in glass. To cool champagne properly, lay the bottle down in a basin, break up a handful of ice, put it on the bottle, and cover with a wet piece of flannel. This should be done an hour before the wine is served. To moderately cool Sauterne and Rhine wines brings out their bouquet and gives them an agreeable fresh flavour. Claret and Burgundy, on the contrary, should be drunk milk warm. This condition is secured by carefully setting the bottle in hot water, and allowing it to remain long enough to gently heat the wine, or near a fire. This brings out its body and diminishes any tendency to astringency. Port, sherry, and Madeira, being fortified vunes, containing certain proportions of unfermented sugar, are usually termed hot wines, because the brandy heats the palate and produces a similar bodily sensation after drinking. These wines lose in body and flavour by being chilled. Port through exposure to coldTABLE SERVICE (SERVICE DE TABLE). 999 acquires a harsh, thin, acid taste, often akin to bitterness, and it is temporarily deprived of all its characteristic qualities. Old wines that have been bottled for any length of time should be carefully decanted by an ex]:>erienced person, so as to avoid any unnecessary agitation of the bottle. On the Continent and in the best houses in this country a decanting basket is used. This is highly recommended, for it greatly simplifies the troublesome process of decanting. A GA S T R 0 N OMIC E PI T DM E. B.ased on Brill.-vt S.\v.\ri.n’s Maxims. The fate of nations on their food depends. Say what you eat—I’ll know your tastes and friends. Were there no life, the universe were naught ; Life to sustain apt food must still be sought. Beasts feed, man eats : the man of cultured sense Alone gives eating its due eminence. Nature compels us all to take a bite, But softens with the bait of appetite Her iron rule ; obedience she rewards With pleasures only known at dainty boards Good livers show their judgment in their food. \Miy not prefer that which our taste finds good ? All ages, ranks, and climes enjoy good cheer— A recompense for other goods not here. The first long hour is doubly drear, except At tables where a knowing chef is kept. W’ho finds a planet out his race may wish To serve. He serves them who finds out a dish. A drunkard knows not how to drink ; ’tis meet To say a glutton knows not liow to eat. First solid foods, then the more delicate. IMild wines the first ; the heady should come late.rmi ■►•MM'!) HER MAJESTY’S DINNER CTfui'ISifv KjOO. Doiagts. Consommi.' de tortue. Potagc dcs R<'is Ipoissong. Saumon sauce roche.' EpiTlaiis frits sauce mvigotte. Criiirfcs. ]\is de ^■eau a !a Senii,. Chaud-froid do voimile a ia Keiiic. iulcbfs. I!(ruf braise a la Ilielu lieu. . Selle d’agneau sauce menthe. I’etits ]"us a i'Aiigluise. L\ot. Cailles aux pommes de terre a I’liidienue. Entrrmr’.a. Asperges sauce Ib'llandjaise. Baba.s au earajau. M< laii-' ,aiix fraisos. CiHiites de Chautilly.. aia/tft. Creme au choeolat. Eau do citron, tiiiffct. Hot aud Cold Fowls. Tui.gue. Cold Roast Heel' • * ■ w • I I I Menu of the last State Banquet given by Her Majesty the late Queen 'Victoria.CHAPTIiR XLIV. THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS. To compose menus, or bills of fare, is not an easy task. Indeed, to be Skeleton of a Full-course Dinner. /AELIsIU HORS-D'OiUVKE (.4l’PETISERi) POTAGES (Soups) POISSONS (Fish) ENTREES (Made Dishes) RELEVE (Remove) ROT I (Ro.vst) able to write out a well- balanced and seasonable menu is considered as evidence that the writer has reached the highest stage of the culinary art. It is much easier to cook a dinner than to plan it. A menu is in effect the architect’s plan, and the cook is the builder ; but a cook, to be a perfect master of his art, must act both as architect and builder. It is said that there are some lady housekeepers and hosts who prefer to select the dishes which are to form the menu for their dinner parties, and in doing so they seem to study their own tastes rather than those of their guests. Nothing could be more unsatisfactory; and, as a matter of fact, such i)lans often result in a more or less decided hasco. Whether it be the cook, the housekeeper, or the hostess who com- poses the menu of a dinner, etc., it must be borne in mind that the meal should be so arranged as to please the tastes of the guests. A wise host or hostess should hrst consider the characters of the diners and their tastes, if the latter be known to him or her. Bacon, ,dealing with this subject, says : “ TheTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1002 dinner is for eating, and my wish is that the guests, not the cook, should like the dishes.” Unless a cook be a thorough master or mistress of the art in all its details, the arranging of the menus should not be entrusted to his or her care. This, of course, applies to first-class menus. A little dinner, consisting merely of soup, fish, and joint, presents little or no difficulty to the cook or housekeeper. It is, however, quite a different matter when hors-d’oeuvre, entrees, releves, rotis, entremets, and savouries are required for a recherche and important dinner. The art of gastronomy has certain rules and regulations which, though they may be unwritten laws, are strictly observed by the epicure—and justly so. Beyond the hard-and-fast rules laid down for the proper serving of a clinner or other set meal, dictating, as it were, the manner in which the greater number of courses sliould follow, other things have to be considered by the chef or hostess, who must show some discernment in choosing the different dishes. Menu is a French word which means “ tiny or minute details.” As a culinary term it means a list of dishes intended for a meal, which is written or printed on cards to be placed before the guests : these cards are commonly called “ bills of fare.” Every repast, however simple, has its bill of fare, plain or complicated, written or unwritten ; that is to say, a plan must be made deciding what food is to be pre- l)arcd and cooked for each meal; and this plan is the guide for the cook, orders being given in accordance with the directions and decisions arrived at. Speaking in the broadest sense, to compile a menu is nothing more than to select the dishes for a repast. Unfortunately, the selection of food, more especially among the middle and lower classes, does not receive that attention which it should have ; and little is done to help the ordinary housewife to solve this important question. If it were a question of feeding animals, ample information could be gained from innnmerable publications ; and yet if one wishes to know how to select the right ingredients and proportions of food for the nutrition of men, the anxious inquirer can only be referred to some scientific treatise. Such works are, as a rule, not very clear to anyone un- acquainted with the scientific principles of the chemistry of food. To return to our subject. It should be mentioned that, so far as menu cards are concerned, they are essentially the outcome of modern civilisation. The ancients knew nothing of them ; they contented themselves with judging the nature and character of dishes as they were brought on the table. No mention of bills of fare or menus is to be found in early classic writings. Our forefathers had probably no need for such things, for the dishes in those days were com- paratively small in number. But at the present time, when articles of food have become almost innumerable, and the selection is so great, menus are a necessity as well as a convenience. The use of menus was first heard of in 1541, when at a banquet1003 iHE CONSTRUCTION OR MENUS. given by the Duke of Brunswick it was observed that he had a long piece of paper by the side of his plate, to which he occasionally referred. One of the guests asked the Duke what the paper was for ; upon this his grace explained that it was a jirogramme of what was being served for the banquet, and by consulting it he could preserve his appetite for the dishes he liked best. The idea was so much admired that it became very pojmlar, and the plan was soon adopted, and has since developed into the present state of perfection. Whatever may be said for and against menu or bill of fare com- pilation, to compose a menu is an art, and the style in which this is done adds considerably to the popularity and success of a repast. The dinner is unquestionably the most important as well as the most substantial meal of the three or four ser\^ed daily. Brillat Savarin’s verdict in the matter of menus is very curt, but nevertheless to the point. It is : Menu nial fait, diner perdu, meaning that if the menu is badly composed the dinner is sure to be a failure. A menu gives one, as it were, a foretaste of the cook’s ability, and if the bill of fare be well and carefully compiled, and, needless to say, the cooking all that could be desired—perfect in every way—the confidence of the diner is at once inspired. To order a dinner is to be able to put together a list of dishes, which rec^uires thought, invention, and combination. This is the essence of the art of menu compilation, for it involves four important things : novelt}^ simplicity, originality, and taste. A well-balanced menu must be original, seasonaWe, and characteristic in every sense ; the old-fashioned and dull routine must as much as possible be avoided. The first consideration in making up a menu must be paid to the occasion, season, and the magnitude of the repast to be given. There are menus for quiet-living families, w'ho require but simple and jdain meals : the principal object in this case is to escape monotony, to vary the composition of dinners from da}^ to day, while avoiding too much diversity in the same meal. Dinners to be given to a party of friends are not as a rule quite so simple as those served in the ordinary way ; but even here there should be moderation in the selection of dishes, for most people will enjoy a meal with few courses, plain but good, far better than an elaborate spread with a lot of un- necessary, over-decorated, and richly prepared dishes. This, how'cver, is a rule which must be regulated, as it were, on the slidingTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1004 scale, for a great deal depends upon the diners and the host’s position and means. The best plan in every case is to hit the happy medium which will satisfy the guests and harmonise with the host’s position. An elaborate ball supper, a State banquet, or a society dinner requires a very different menu from that pro- vided for a little dinner to entertain a few friends. RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN COMPILING MENUS. The chief considerations for all menus, whether of a frugal or more important character, may be sum- marised as follows ; I. The kind and style of a meal and the number of guests expected. 2. To hx the number of courses of which the meal is to consist. 3. The selection of dishes, special attention being paid to the choice thereof, observing that they must bear suitable relation to each other, as explained in Rule 6. 4. Observe the season of the year, and be guided accordingly. iMenus vary according to the seasons. Certain products are at their best at different periods ; therefore it is more or less essential that these be considered. In January and February ox-tail or giblet soup and all kinds of game, such as wild duck, woodcocks, and snipe, are served. These latter are not procurable in April or May. In April and May spring soup, crimped sal- mon, lamb, etc., would be considered most seasonable dishes. 5. In introducing so-called sea- sonable viands into a menu see that the remainder of dishes or courses harmonise with them. In the spring, for instance, young poultry and the meat of young animals and young vegetables are in perfec- tion. If a special feature of these be made in a menu, it would be considered bad taste to introduce a mock-turtle or ox-tail soup, for it would need a lighter and more delicate soup with which to com- mence a dinner with a plat printanier, viz. a spring dish.1005 THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS. 6. See that the combination of every dish selected is well assorted, the colour well blended, and linally see that the flavours of the materials are judiciously applied. 7. See that everything needed for carrying out the programme is procured in good time, so that it may be handy when required. 8. In carrying out a menu, from the beginning to the time of serving the dishes thereon, observe punctirality in the strictest sense. Never serve anything half-flnished, and see that hot dishes are served hot, and cold dishes cold. 9. Make sure that every dislr on the menn is correctlv and concisely described. It matters little in what language the menu is set up, so long as the correct rules above specified are properly observed. French being the recog- nised language of the kitchen all over the civilised world, it has become the fashion, rightly or wrongly, to make out every menu of importance in that language. It is quite true that there are a number of typical French and other foreign dishes which cannot be trans- lated into English in any form of nicely sounding words ; but I maintain that in most cases, should it be so desired, ^the English vocabulary is suffici- ently rich to provide a name for every dish. The langiie de cuisine, or kitchen Erench, is practically a language of itself, and unless one is well acquainted with the many terms and phrases thereof it becomes no easy task to remember the correct names of the various dishes which constitute a recherche dejeuner, dinner, luncheon or supper. MENUS FOR FAROE DINNERS. In preparing a bill of fare for a large dinner it is advisable not to include dishes which are difficult to dress when done in a great number, for such will cause needless complication in the kitchen, and often lead to a confusion in the service. It is also most unwise to use new names of dishes which are not known, or which may be OF THE KING AND QUEEN OF SWEDEN.ico6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who may know the technical names of old dishes. Avoid also the nse of pompons names of dishes, especially when fire cost for their preparation is not known, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high-standing personalities, towns, countries, etc., are applied in connection with many dishes; the French cuisine especially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers, artists, or who have distinguished themselves by their gastronomic or epicurean merits. Hence, we have such names in connection with certain dishes as Lucullus, Savarin, Louis XV., Soubise, Richelieu, Cai'eme, Maintenon, Conde, Colbert, Villeroy, Tal- leyrand, Nesselrode, Demidoff, Marie-Louise, Montglas, Victoria, etc. These names, as well as many others which have been incor- porated in this work, are associated with various culinary prepara- tions, and are recognised by cooks of all nations. There are, unfortunately, some narrow-minded cuisimers who are in the habit of altering the genuine names of dishes, to which they adapt some other high-sounding names, in order to make them- selves famous, but who will only succeed in making themselves look ridiculous and small in the eyes of a real gourmet, who is unlikely to be thus deceived. If, however, the composition of a certain dish is due to the talent and initiative of the cook, then the case is different, and he will have a perfect right to name such a dish according to his fancy. The importance of a well-composed menu is so great that it adds to the success of a dinner in a great measure, whilst a defectively composed menu may compromise the reputation of a good chef. Although the menu may be of little use to some people, it is indis- pensable to connoisseurs who understand the language of fhe kitchen, for they will then, by analysing the menu, be able to judge the dinner as well as the capacity of the chef according to the arrangement of the dishes and the combination of the viands. On looking at the various compilations of dinner menus, one will find that there are three kinds of dinners : the solitary dinner, social dinners, and set dinners. All need and merit an equal amount of consideration by the menu compiler and the cook, who should be one person. The last two dinners may be termed society dinners. The success of a dinner does not depend in the least on two soups, two hsh, two entrees, etc., but on having it well cooked, well served, sufficient on the table, and, above all, everything of the best possible quality. It is far better to have one of each and good, well dressed, fhan a large number of dishes badly done. The way to success, in fact, is to have the dishes choice but limited in number. The wines as well as the dishes should be more remarkable for their excellence than their variety. As an illustration of this, take the words of fhe late Earl of Dudley, who used to say, “ A good soup, a small turbot, and a neck of venison, duckling with green peas, or chicken with asparagus, and an apricot tart, is a dinner for an emperor.”1007 THE CONSTEUCTION OF MENUS. A WEEK’S FAMILY MENUS AT A GLANCE. Breakfast, Luncheon, Sinner, Tea, and Supper Menus. Breakfast. Buttered shredded wlie.it. Potato omelet. Grilled bacon. Tea and cocoa. Bread and butter. Jam. Breakfast. Porridge. Tea and chocolate. Rissoles. Cold gammon. Buttered toast. Marmahide. Breakfast. Cereal with cream. Eggs and bacon. Coffee and cocoa. Bread and butter. Preserves. MONDAY. Luncheo.v. Roast loin of mutton. Vegetables. B.iked apples. Rice shape. Celery. Tea. Madeleine cakes. Buttered scones. Potted shrimps. Bread and butter. Toast. TUESDAY. Luncheon. Austrian duck pie. Baked tomatoes. Swiss bread fritters. Stewed figs. Tea. Sally Lunns. Balmoral tartlets. Tomato sandwiches. Bread and butter. Rusks. WEDNESDAY Luncheon. Veal broth. Leg of mutton la Bretonne. Fried potatoes. Prune border, with cream. Walnut cake. Buttered toast Toast. Dinner. Haricot bean soup. Croquettes of beef. Piquante sauce. Roast duck. Spinach, Orange salad. Caramel pudding. Dinner. Fried soles. Lemon sauce. Ham mousse. Veal cutlets. French beans and potatoes. Cheese fondues. Dinner. Boiled turbot. Cardinal sauce. Roast turkey. Cranberry jelly. Braised turnips. Banana chartreuse. THURSDAY Breakfast. Cereal with cream. Tea and coffee. Kedgeree of fish. Bananas. Bread and butter. Toast. Luncheon. Fried smelts. Irish stew. Apple and cran- berry tart. Cheese and salad. Tea Milk scones. Egg sandwiches. Mondainin cake. Bread and butter. Rusks. FRIDAY Dinner. Tomato soup. -\avariu of pork. Roast chicken. Lettuce salad. Saute potatoes. Dipiomate pudding. Breakfast. Hominy croquettes. Tea and cocoa. Potted shrimps. Buttered toast. Grilled ham. Bread and butter. Luncheon. Barley soup. Halibut steak. Anchovy butter. French pancakes. Celery. Tea. Cream buns. Watercress sand- wiches. Ginger cake. Biscuits. Dinner. Croute-au-pot. Fried cod. Tomato sauce. Rabbit a la Soiibisc. Scotch kale. Noisette potatoes. Meringued apples. SATURDAY. Breakfast. Plasmon porridge. Sardines on toas!. Curried eggs. Grilled cullets. Coffee—Chocolate. Bread and butter. Honey. Breakfast. Cereal with cream. Coffee and tea. Minced mutton. Poached eggs. Bread and butler. Toasted triscuits. Honey. Luncheon or Supper. Saute of kidneys. Mashed potatoes. Rolled ox-tongne, Macaroni an gratiii. Tea. Hot potato scones. Cocoaiuit rocks. Madeira cake. Bread and butter. Toast. SUNDAY. Dinner, Chicken soup. Boiled salmor. Shrimp sauce. Roast beef. Seakaie. Baked potatoes. Chocolate pudding. Cheese and nuts. Tea. Yorkshire tea. cakes. Lemon jumbles. Galettes. Ham sandwiches. Strawbenues. Bread and butter. Dinner. / Oyster patties. Sirloin steak. « Braised celery. Roast goose. Potato scallops. i Vanilla souffle.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1008 Suggestions for a Week’s Dinner Menus in French.THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS. 1009 SPECIMEN MENU FOR A DINNER, With some Useful Hints. MENU DU DINER {BII.L OF FARE). (I) HORS-D’(3iUVRE. Les HuiiRES (Natives), Les Canapes ,'v la Turbigo (Canapes, Turbigo style). I'OT.AGES (Soups). CoNSOM.ML, Japonaise (Clear Sol'p with Pearl Barley and Quenelles). Puree .i la Palestine (Puree of Jerusale.m .Artichokes). (2) POISSONS (Fisli). Turbot de Douvres (Dover Turbot, boiled). Sauce Hollandaise (Dutch Sauce). Blanchailles .a la Diable (Devilled Whitebait). (3) ENTREES. Cotelettes ue Cailles (Quail Cutlets). Sauce To,mate (Tomato Sauce). Filets de Bieuf .i la Mirabeau (Broiled Fillets of Beef, Mirabeau style). RELEVE (Remove). Carre de Mouton braise .i. la Jardiniere (Braised Neck of Mutton garnished with mixed Vegetables). Po.MMES DE Terre .1 la Duchesse (Duchess Potatoes). (4) ROTI (Roast). CiiAPON iRUFFii (Truffled Capon). Salade de Laitues (Lettuce Salad). PoMjiES DE Terre souffles (Puff Potatoes). (5) ENTREMETS (Sweets). Pouding a l’Ananas (Pineapple Pudding). Glace .v l’Orange (Orange-Water Ice). D.'vmes d'Honneur (Maids of Honour). BONNE-BOUCHE (Savoury). Failles .i. la Yarmouth (Yarmouth Cheese Straws). * DESSERT. Fruits et Biscuits assortis (Fruits and Dessert Biscuits). Cafe a la Turoue (Turkish Coffee). HINTS ON THE ABOVE COURSES. (i) Thinly cut slices of brown bread and butter and quarters of lemons should be served with the oysters. The canap.'s should be served in small glass or china, dislies. One or more small dishes of French or small Spanish olives should be placed 011 the table. {2) A dish of plain boiled potatoes should be handed round with the boiled turliot. (Quartered lemons and thin slices of brown bread and butter must be served with whitebait. (3) The quail cutlets, being fried, should be dished upon a folded napkin or dish-paper, and the .sauce handed round in a sauce-boat. (4) Garnish the capon with sprigs of watercress, and serve bread sauce or fried breadcrumbs with this dish. Be sure not to have your ponimes souffUes ready until the last moment, else they are likely to be a failure. (5) The maids of honour may be served separately or with the ice ; if so served, a dish of ice wafers or thin biscuits should be handed round with the ice.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. JOIO LUNCHEON MENUS, (DEJEUNERS A LA FOURCHETTE.) The word “ lunch ” is said to be derived Irom the Welsh “ llwnc,” which is a variation of “ lump.” In bygone days lunch or luncheon meant simply a lump of bread and cheese partaken between meals—a frugal bit—but now the lunch, more especially among the upper classes, has become a fashionable meal, and one quite as important as the dinner of former times. To an intelligently minded chef or cook-housekeeper few meals offer better opportunities for composing smart little dishes at comparatively little expense than the lunch or luncheon. There are many dainty dishes, which can be prepared with little trouble, suitable for luncheon. The following specimen Menus will give ample information as to the kind of dishes best suited for luncheon or a French ‘‘ dejeuner.” It will also be noticed that no hard-and-fast rule exists in the composition of these menus ; although the gastronomic rule which is strictly observed for dinners is jiractically ignored in the case of a luncheon bill of fare, it recpiires some judgment to introduce the right kind of dishes, SPECIMEN DEJEUNER OR LUNCHEON MENUS. French. CEufs pochfe aux epinards. Coquilles de turbot i la creme. Rognons sautes en caisses. Champignons 4 la Reine. Pommes de terre Anna., Creme en tapioca. Dessert. Thou marine, celeri-rave. Saucisses au riz. Chateaubriand a la moelle. Puree de pommes. Chaud-froid de perdreau. Souflle a I’arrowroot. Omelette au jambon. Blanquette de veau. Croquettes de pommes de terre. Cdtelettes de pre-sale. Haricots verts. Compote de fruit. English. Poached eggs with spinach. Shells of lobster, cream sauce. Sauteed kidneys in cases. Mtishrooms, Queen style. Anna potatoes. Tapioca mould. Dessert. Tunny fish and celeriac. Grilled sausages with rice. Double fillet of beef with marrow fat. Mashed potatoes. Chaud-froid of partridge. Baked arrowroot souffle. Ham omelet. Stewed veal in white sauce. - Potato croquets. Grilled mutton cutlets. French beans. Fruit compote. Croquettes d'huilres. Foie de veau saute. ^, Pommes chateau. Terrine de lievre a la gelee. Souffles a la vanille. Oyster croquets. Calf’s liver saute. Castle potatoes. Hare pie in jelly. Vanilla soufflfis.L UNCHEON MEN US. lOI I1012 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. FRENCH LUNCHEON MENUS. CEufs brouilles au jamban. Foie de Veau a la Fran?aise. Tournedos k la maitre d’hotel. Pommes duchesse. Omelette soufflfe. Dessert. Crfeme d’asperges. Timbales de vohille. Sauce supreme. Cotelettes d’agneau au gros sel. Legumes. Dartois au.\ abricots. Cafe noir. DEJEUNER DE CHASSE. Filets de sole a la mayonnaise. Mousse de homard frappee. Boetif braise a la gelee. Langue a I'ecarlate. Filets de caneton a la Lorraine. t Filets de sole au Parmesan. Vol-au-vent a la Reine. QJufs brouillfe aux pointes d’asperges. Salade de homard. Poires au riz meringuees. Merlans au gratia. Timbale de macaroni, Milanaise. Cote de veau farcie. Pommes saut&s. Choux de Bruxelles au beurre. Gateau de Savarin. Compote de fruit. Dessert. SHOOTING LUNCHEON. Fillets of sole in Mayonnaise. Iced lobster souffle. Braised beef with savoury jelly. Dressed ox-tongue.. Fillets of duckling with goose-liver. Cailles poelees, Parisienne. Faisan en robe de chambre. Salade ^ la J aponalse. Braised stuffed quails. Roast pheasant. J apanese salad. Bordure de riz aux prunes. Gateaux a I’Afiicaine. T Border of rice with prunes. African cakes. Batons gougfere. Cheese savoury. Fromage. DEJEUNER DE NOCE. Cantaloupe au marasquin. Omelette aux rognons. Escalopes de langoustes a la Cardinal. Timbale Turinoise. Faisan en aspic. Terrine de bceuf a la Daube. Becasse rotie. Gelee de groseille. Compote de melon. Savarin au kirsch. Champignons a la Diable. Marrons glaces au chocolat. Dessert. Cheese. ts, WEDDING LUNCHEON. Iced melon with maraschino. Kidney omelet. ..j, ■ Crawfish scallops with cardina Y sauce. Macaroni timbale, Turin style. I Pheasant in savoury jelly. 5^5 Potted beef, daube style. I Roast snipe, j Red-currant j3lly. *5 Melon compote. 1 Savarin cake with kirsch syrup. Devilled mushrooms. Candied chestnuts with chocolate. Dessert. TWO ROYAL DEJEUNERS. ENGLAND AND NORWAY. Menu of a Dejeuner composed in honour of THE King and Queen or Norway’s visit ^ TO THIS Country in November, 1908. |' E Escalopes de Turbot a la Nansen n I N Navarin de Poulet a la Marengo o V G Goulash Viennoise a la Xavier R | L Langouste en Salade, Stroganov v | A Allumettes de Celeri a la Grecque e •jp N Neige au Champagne a la Dantzig g ' D Darioles de Peches a la Royale e C. H. S. ENGLAND AND AUSTRIA. .Menu of a Dejeuner composed in honour of Archduke Frederick of Austria, who paid a visit to His Majesty King Fdw'ard Vll. IN June, 1906. E Ecrevisses a la Victoria a N Niokis de Semoule Ambigu u G Galantine de Pigeons s L Langue de veau a la Colbert t A -Aperges a la Xavier R N Nouillettes a la Napoli 1 D Dartois a la Reine Alexandra a C. H. S.1013 Dessert. Dessert. DINNER MENUS. DINNER MENUS. The word “ dinner ” is supposed to Ire derived from a corruption of dix heurts (10 o’clock), indicating the hour at which in the time of the Normans this meal was taken. In a book published in 1512, entitled the “ Household Book,” it is stated that the family rose at 6 o’clock, breakfasted at 7 o’clock, dined at 10 o’clock, supped at 4 o’clock, and closed the gates at 9 p.m. Dinner with all classes forms the principal meal of the day, the most important meal. The working and middle classes take this meal at midday, whilst the better classes and fashionable society partake of it between the hours of 6 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. The aristocracy have always dined later in the day than the other classes. The number of courses eaten at a dinner depends on the circumstances of the host and hostess ; but the courses have increased with time and fashion, whilst the number of dishes served with each course has decreased, for in comparing old Irills of fare we see that they are now being gradually reduced. To be able to plan successfully a correctly arranged dinner, or indeed any other meal, is regarded as an accomplishment which every manager’s f/ui/should acquire and be proud of. The arrangement of an elaborate dinner is an art in itself, and one that cannot be attained in a day. It is the arrangement of the various parts in connection with each other, as well as a whole (ensemble), which chiefly characterises a really good dinner. The composition of the dishes should be excellent in themselves, well cooked, neatly dressed, but bearing no harmony or relation to each other. Each dislr must be distinct from the other. A perfect dinner includes only a judicious selection from the food that is in season. DINNER MENUS IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH. POTAGE. Sour. Consomme aux champignons. Clear soup with mushrooms. POISSO.NS. Fish. Filets de sole a I’lndiennc. Fillets of sole, Indian style. Entree. Entree. Cronstades de ris de veaii. P.asiry crusts, with sweetbread. Releve. Joint. Rpanle de mouton braise. Braised shoulder of mutton. Choiix-fleur, sauce a la crfeme. Caulitlower, and cream sauce. Ron. Roast. Oie farcie rdtie i I’.Americaii e. Roast goose, stuffed. Cranberry sauce. Entremets Sucres. Sweets. Charlotte de pommes. Apple charlotte. Gelee a la Russe. 1- Russian jelly. Entremets Savoureux. ■ Savoi rv. Crcutes de Laitarce. Herring roes on toast. Creme de chiccree. Cream of chicory. Filet de sole Bruxelloise. Fillets of sole, Brussels style. Cronstades i la Castillaine. Small cronstades with chestnut puree. Poulet frit a la Villeroi. Fried chicken, Villeroi style. Canard sauvage roti. Roast wild duck. Salade d'oranges. Orange salad. Cardons braises a I’Espagncle. t Braised cardoons with brown sauce. Crfeme glacee aux baiianes. Iced banana cream. Quenelles au Parmesan. Parmesan cheese quenelles.1014 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK SPECIMEN DINNER MENUS. Consoniiue A la Talma. Saumon bouilli, sauce coiicombre. Timbale tie turbot A la Russe. Filets de btEuf a la Chateaubriand. | Chaud-froid de cailles A la Victoria. $ Quartier d’agneau, sauce a la mentlie. Petits pois. Pommes notivclles. j Mousse frappee a la Genevoise. Denises an Parmesan. Salade. Fromage. Dessert. Potage printanier. j Bar bouilli, sauce crevettes. j Cervelle de veau a I’Orly. Gigot de pre-saM roti. Pommes saut^es. Gateaux d’amandes. Clear soup, Talma style. Boiled salmon, cucumber sauce. Timbale of turbot, Russian style. Fillets of beef, Chateaubriand style. Chaud-froid of quails, Victoria style. Fore-quarter of lamb, mint sauce. Green peas. New potatoes. Iced cream custard, Geneva style. Plot cheese sandwiches. Salad. Cheese. Dessert. Spring soup. Boiled bass, shrimp sauce. Veal brain a I’Orly. Roast leg of Southdown mutton. Tossed potatoes. Almond cakes. Purde aux petits pois. Pat^ chaud de saumon. Cbtelettes de mouton jardiniAre. Jambon glacA. Salade de lAgumes. Beignets de pommes. Green pea soup. Hot salmon pie. Mutton cutlets A la jardiniAre. Glazed ham. Vegetable salad. Apple fritters. Potage a I’oseille. Sole farcie aux fines herbes. Rissoles a la finan?iAre. Filet de bceuf roti. ClucorAe au jus. SoufflA glacA aux fraises. Sorrel soup. Sole stuffed with mixed herbs. Rissoles of cockscombs and truffles. Roast fillet of beef. Stewed chicory. Iced strawberry souffle. Consomme aux nouilles. F.perlans A la Celestine. Gullasch A la Hongroise. Ris de veau frit aux epinards. Perdrix blanche rotie. Salade de laitue. Pommes crapaudine. Melon en surprise. Froinage. Fruits et dessert. Clear soup with nouilles. Smelts, Celestine style. Minced beef, Hungarian style. Fried sweetbread with spinach. Roast ptarmigan. Lettuce salad. Crapaudine potatoes. Melon-shaped cake. Cheese. Fruit and dessert. Hors-d’CEuvre. Barquettes Stiedoises. Potage. ConsommA J udic. Hors-d’CEuvre. Le melon a ITmperiale. Potage. Le consomme A la Tivoli. Poisson. Mousselines de saumon A la Reine. Pommes de terre poisson. Entrees. Pate de cailles ct ris de veau Moscovite. Noisettes d’agneau. Pompadour. Legumes. Asperges, sauce mousseline. Coupes A la Voltaire. R6ti. Poularde rdtie A la broche, Salade Eugenie. Entremet. Chalet rustique A la Chantilly. Bonne-Bouche. Troiifons A la Tosca. Poisson. Les filets de sole A la Savoie. Entree. Les poussins a I’Andalouse. Les pommes de terre A la Creole. Releve. La selle de veau r6ti, Prince Orloff. Les tomates farcies A I’Argenteuille. La salade Monseigiieur. Entremets. Le souffle A la Grand Marnier. La bombe glacee Madeleine. Les Karolys d’Astrachan. Les diables A cheval.SPECIMEN DINNER MENUS. 1015ioi6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK.lOI LENTEN DINNER MENUS. LENTEN DINNER (DINERS MAIGRES) AND MEATLESS FARE MENUS. A “ diner niaigre ” literally means a Lenten dinner, the early days of Lent ; and as so many persons are, for conscience or inclination’s sake, interested in Lenten fare, a few menus with dishes of strictly orthodox type are herewith given. The dishes suitable for such meals must, as a matter of course, not include any flesh or fowl. The materials to be used in the preparation must therefore consist only of fish, vegetable, and farinaceous products. The modern cook and housekeeper has learnt that it is possible by scientific methods to cook both fish and vegetables in a more varied and tasty fashion than the cook of bygone days used to do. Vegetables, in particular, have of late played a very important part in our menus. There is a special chapter devoted to Meatless Dishes, with an abundance of choice recipes, from which it will be seen that meat substitutes are really wonderful in variety and value. LENTEN DINNER MENUS (FRENCH AND ENGLISH). I. I. Puree a I’oseille. Cotelettes de saumoii a I’lndicnnc. Bordure de riz aux luutres. Pomines croquettes, ponds d'artichauts aux epinards. Croutes aux aiichois. Crepes au chocolat. Glace a I’ananas. Dames d’honneur. Potage cr^;me de riz. Filets de soles 4 I’Orly. Turbot bouilli, sauce anchois. Crevettes au gratin. Carottes a la B&hamel. Pommes pailles. Pointes d'asperges a la Sicilienne. Bavarois a la vanille. Gelee a I’orange. in. Potage Jackson. Cabillaud rdli aux eperlans. Pomines Parisiennes. Boucliees de liomard a la Cardinal. Tomates au gratin. Mayonnaise de saunion. Glace Napolitaine. Cigarettes de fromage. IV. J ulienne au maigre. Beignets d’huitres. Truite saumonee, sauce Hollandaise. Pommes poissons. CEufs frits a la Colbert. Cotelettes de riz. .4spic d’ecrevisses. Salade a la Frainjaise. Charlotte glacee a la Florentine. Cassolettes savonreux. Sorrel soup. Salmon cutlets. Indian style. Rice border with stewed oysters. Potato croquets. .■\rtichokes stuffed with spinach. Anchovy crusts. Pancakes with chocolate. Pineapple ice. Maids of honour. II. Rice cream soup. Fillets of soles, Orly style. Boiled turbot, anchovy sauce. Baked prawns, gratin style. Young carrots, B&hamel style. Straw potatoes. .■Cspar.agus points. Sicilian stylo. Vanilla cream. Orange jelly. 111. Potato cream soup. Baked cod with smelts. Potatoes. Parisian style. Small lobster patties, Cardinal style. Baked tomatoes. Salmon mayonnaise. Neapolitan ice. Cheese cigarettes. IV. Julienne in fish broth. Oyster fritters. Salmon trout. Hollandaise sauce. Fish potatoes. Baked eggs. Colbert style. Rice cutlets. Savoury jelly of crayfish. French sahid. Iced charlotte, Florentine style. Savoury cassolettes.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ioi8 Dessert. Potage aux luiilres. Ombre a la maitre d'hotei. Vol-au-vent aux oeufs, sauce crSme. Haricots verts au beurre. Grenadins de saumon 4 la Venitienne. Salade de harengs fumes. Croquettes de macaroni. .Abricots au riz, sauce framboise. V. Oyster soup. Broiled grayling with parsley butter. Vol-au-vent with eggs, cream sauce. French beans with butter. Salmon fillets, Venetian style. Smoked herring salad. Macaroni croquettes. Apricots with rice, raspberry sauce. VEGETARIAN DINNER MENUS. Soupe maigre aux choux. Potage au lait. Fricassee d’oeiifs. Omelette gratinee au Parmesan. Macaroni Milanaise. Flageolets a la poulette. Fritot de celeri. Savarin aux fruits. Bavarois i la vanille. Failles en Parmesan. Rosettes aux concombres. Crfeme de Betterave. Gourges grilles a la maitre d'hotei. Coquilles d’ceufs aux epinards. Pains de semoule a la tomate. Petits pois i la pouletle. Souffle i I'orange. Crfeme au chocolat. Brioches Rochford. Olives d'Espagne. Radis et beurre frais. Consomme de tomate. Creme de concombres. Cotelettes de riz, sauce piquante. Coquilles de petitS pois a la Suedoise. Artichauts a la Lyonnaise. Omelette a la Charentifere. Macaroni au gratin. Champignons frits. Salade melangee. Grisette de pommes. CrSme a I’ananas. Biscuits glaces a la Turque. Cuiiapfe Andalouse. Fruits et dessert. Cafe noir. Lentil soup. Poached eggs with spinach. Butter bean cutlets and tomato sauce. Curried aubergines with rice. Stewed marrow. Macaroni au gratia-. Apple and tapioca pie. Canary pudding. Lemon blancmange. Madeleines. Shredded celery a la Mayonnaise. Sliced tomatoes a I’huile. Olives. Radishes. Vegetable consomme. Carrot soup a la Crecy. Egg-plant, stuffed and baked. Tomato sauce. Cauliflower a la erfeme. Salsify fritters. Mixed salad. Potato croquettes. Cranberry sauce. Ginger pudding. Strawberry meringues. Egg cassolettes. Cheese. Salad. Dessert. Potage erfeme d'orge lie. Gourgeon a la blanchaille. CEufs a la fermifere. Chartreuse de legumes. Tomates i la Napolitaine. Nouilles h la Salamar.dre. Asperges 4 la Vert-pre. Salade de haricots verts. Rissoles de cerises. Gelee aux fruits. Patisserie Suisse. Glaces de fantaisies. Croutes aux amandes. Fruits et dessert. Cafe noir. DINER MI-CAREME. CEufs de pluvier. Potage julienne maigre._ Cabillaud A la Mornay. Eperlans en brochettes. Vol-au-vent de gnochis. Epinards a la erfeme. Darne de saumon braise. Tomates sautees. Timbale de semoule. Salade Russe. Berdure a la Princesse de Galles. Compote de Peches. Huitres 4 la Diable.MENUS SUITABLE EOR SUMMER. 1019THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. MENU V. POTAGE. Consomme de volaille anx quenelles. Poissons. Filets de soles 4 la Normande. Entree. Tournedos a la Daiiphine. Releve. Selle d’agneau a la bouquetijre. Sorbet a bananas. Rdxi. Cailles de vigne aux canapes. Asperges au beurre fondii. Entremets. Ponding a la Dresde. Bordure de poires. Souffles de fromage glaccs. MENU VII. Potage St. Germain. Sauir.on 4 la Rosebery. Ablettcs frites. Supreme de veau a I’aspic. Hanche de venaison rdti. Aubergines a la Provenpale. Gelee aux fraises. Nougat 4 la Chantilly. Olives 4 I’Alsacienne. MENU VIII. Consomme 4 la Brisse. Rougets 4 la Venilienne. Caneton a la Portugaise. Cdtelettes d'agneau 4 la Pompadour. Homard a I’Americaine. Poulet rot i an cresson. Pommes de terre farcies. Ponding a la St. Clond. Tartelettes anx cerises. MENU VI. Consomme 4 I’Algerienne. Filets de sanmon 4 la Verdi. Pelites quenelles de vean a la Villeroi. Cdtelettes d’agneau 4 la Crtele. Poulet rdti 4 la Franpaise. Pommes de terre soufflees. Salade Capucine. Asperges glacees 4 la Vert-pre. Peches glaces 4 la Reine. Petits bateaux a I'epicurienne. MENU IX. Consomme chiffonnade. Cendrillons de filets de sole. Vol-au-vent 4 la Victoria. Aloyau de boeuf 4 la Godard. Granite au citron. Pigeon de Bordeaux rdti. Petits pois au lard. Suedoise d’abricot. Diablotines 4 la Gruydre. MENUS SUITABLE FOR AUTUMN. MENU I. Hors-d’CEuvre. Huitres d’Ostende. Potage. Consomme Deslignac. Poissons. Supreme de turbot 4 la royale. Filets de merlans 4 la Tyrolienne. Entries. Sonflie de perdreaux 4 I'Anglaise. Omelettes de ris de veau. Releve. Carre de mouton braise anx navets. Sorbet 4 Fimperiale. Ron. Dindon rdti au cresson. Salade de celeri. Epinards au gratin. Entremets. Savarin au rhum. Grisette de pommes. Fromage de Brie. Dessert. MENU II. Potage Puree au potiron 4 la Franfaise. Poisson. Escalopes de turbot 4 la Barigonle. Entrees. Manviettes farcies en papilottes. Sauce tomate. Ris de veau pique 4 la supreme. ReleviI'. Aloyau de boeuf rdti 4 I’Anglaise. Pommes etouffees. Souffles de carottes. Rdn. Dindon au cresson. Salade de saison. Entremets. Ponding 4 I’Orientale. Bombe glacee 4 la diplomate. Patisserie Parisienne. Petits pains de crevettes.MENUS SU IT ABLE FOR AUTU MN. MENU III. POTAGE. ^ Hors-d'oeuvre varies periale. Poisson. -f 1 urbotin a I’amiral. ^ Entree. j Filets mignons de bocuf a I’cstragou I Ruti. Diiide flanque de cailles. Pornmes Anna. Salade panache. Entremets. Bombe Nesselrode. Petits fours, Dessert. ! MENU IV. HORS-D’aluVRE. Huitres au citron. Sardines a I'huile. POTAGES. j Coiisoinine Sevigne. Creme Crecy au ru. I Poissons. j Soles au viti blanc. I Blaiichailles au naturel. Entrees. j Bouch&s de faisan a la modirae Filets de veau a la Talleyrand. | Releves. Jainboii braise, sauce Madire. i Condoles d'Epinards, Rons. Grouse et perdreau.x bardes a la broche. I Pornmes de terre .Anna. Salade a la Rachel. I Entremets. j Ponding souffle au.\ framboises. Cri^me de peches en surprise. ^ Petits fours. j Dessert. ! Cafe noil. | MENU VI. Consomme Saint-Hubert. Petites bouchees aux huitres. Sole au Parmesan. Poulet frit a la Tyrolienne. Sauce Maximilian. Gigot d’iigneau roti. Celeri a la Bechamel. Cr^ine a la Romaine. Tartines a la Baroda. MENU VII. Caviar aux ecrevisses. Petites marmites a la Parisienne. Filets des soles a la Marguery. Noisettes de mouton aux epinards Pornmes de terre farcies. Pigeons de Bordeaux rotis. Salade a la Lyoimaise, I’ouding de peches a la Richelieu. MENU vm. ■Aiichois a la Norvegienne, Potage bonne femme. Filets de soles a la Chasseur Royale. Ris de veau a la financiere. Petits pois a la Fraiifaise, Piiitade bardfe rutie. Salade, pornmes pailles. Pouding glace a la Nesselrode. Petits souffles au thon. MENU IX. Canapes a la Madras. Consomme a la Carbine. Darnes de sauinou a la moderiie. Atriots de volaille a la Vaudoise. Perdrix braises aux choux. Rond de veau r6ti. Salade a la Dumas. Bordurc de marrons a la Chantilly. Tomates au gratin. MENU V. Hors-d'ceuvre varies. Consomme de volaille. Crfeme Nivernaise. Rougets a la Venitienne. Noisettes de Pre-Sale a la Lion d’Or. Salmi de perdreaux chasseur. Poulet rciti au cresson. Salade de chicore. Aubergines farcies au gratin. Bombe glacee a la Sicilienne MENU X. Puree de chou-fleur. Eperlans a la Celestine. Sarcelles aux olives. CHufs a la Gambetfa. Levraut a la Bordelaise. Pornmes de terre julienne. Selle de mouton rutie. Beignets de groseilles. Niokes au gratin.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1022 MENUS SUITABLE FOR WINTER. MENU I. IN FRENCH AND ENGLISH. HORS-D’OiUVRE. Api'RTISIiRS. Olives farcies. Salami de Milano. Stuffed olives. Milan sausage. POTAGE. Consomme a la chiffonade. Sour. Clear soup with chiffonade garnish. Poissons. Fish. Filets de turbot Florentine. Rougets a la Venitienne. Pommes de terre Hollandaise. Baked fillets of turbot. Red mullets, Venetian style. Dutch potatoes. r r Entrees. Zephyres a la Montglas. Pigeons a la Polonaise. Releve. Jambon d’York braise au Madere. Laitues a la demi-glace. Rons. I’erdreaux bardfe au cresson. Salade Beige. Pommes frites. Entremets. Ponding a la duchesse. Souffle glace a la Joinville. Entrees. Savoury zephyrs, Montglas style. Fried stuffed pigeons, Polish fashion. Removes. Braised York ham, Madeira sauce. Lettuce with brown sauce. Roast. Barded partridges with cresses. Belgian salad. Fried potatoes. Sweets. Duchesse pudding. Iced souffle, Joinville style. Bonne-Bouche. Canapes it la Madras. Savour V. Madras canapfe. MENU II. HoRS-n'OiuvRE. Frivolit^s Boh^mienne. Potage. Crecy au riz. Poisson. Turbot aux fines herbes. Entrees. Noisettes de veau a la Milanaise. Ballotine de faisan a la Cardinale. Ffaricots panaches. Ron. Gigot de mouton. Pommes etouffees. Salade de tomates. Entremets. Poires it la Reine. Charlotte de Gaufrettes. Bouchees au fromage fondu. Fruits et dessert. I MENU III. Hors-d’oeuvre. Dominos a la Rochelais. Potage. Consomm6 Villars. Poisson. Filets de sole a la St. Georges. Entries. Quenelles de volaille de Moelle. Sauce Maximilian. Brochettes de Pre-Sale Turbigo. Epinards h la crfeme. Roti. Canard sauvage rdti. Salade Rejane. Bonne-Bouche. Crfepes Moscovite.MENUS SUITABLE FOR \VINTER. lO MENU IV. Hors-d’Uiuvre. I Appetissaiits Siiodoises. POTAGE. I Potage a la DemiduR. Poisson. Filets de turbot a la Careme. ' Entrees. Cotelettes de pore a la Robert. Lapin frit a la Tartare. Roti. Ole farcie rdtie. Pomines de terre a la Lyonnaise. Entremets. Chartreuse de poires il la Princesse. Ainandes a la Diable. MENU V. Hors-d’CEuvre. Caviar a la Russe. Potage. Queux de bceuf litv Poisson. Sauinou grille, sauce Geuoise. Entrees. Kroineskis de perdreaux atix triiffes. , otelettes de mouton a la puree de chicoree. , Releve. Baron de boeuf a I'Anglaise. ' Legumes. Run. Dinde farcie aux marrons. Salade d’hiver. i Entremets. ■ Pouding de bananes. Parfait au cafe. Patisserie assortie. | Huitres a la Dubarry. ; MENU VI. 1 Potage. i Consomme Brunoise. Poisson. Filets de sole au gratin. Entries. Salmis de perdreaux. Artichauts a la Barigoulo. Canard aux olives. Ron Filet de bceuf roti. Salade jardiniere. Pommes de terre duchesse. Entremet. Mousses a la plombitire. Bonne-Bouche. Huitres en caisses a la Diable. MENU VII. 1 Hors-d'oeuvre varies. Consomme petite marmite. Fausse tortue. i Filets de sole frits, sauce tomate. | I’oularde sautee Carnot. ! Gigot de mouton. | H.iricots verts. Choux de Bruxelles. i Pommes chateau. Perdreau sur canape. Salade de saison. I Pouding Danoise. s'-. Gelee au champagne. 'I Harengs fumes sur croiite. Dessert. MENU VIII. Brisolettes de caviar. Potage. Consomme ^[ulligatawlly Poisson. Halibut a la Proveiifale. Entrees. Fricassee de poulet aux llcuroiis. Releve. Selle de venaison roti. Legumes. Carottes aux epinards. Roti. Oie farcie rdtie. Pomines fondantes. Entremets. Souffle aux prunes. Huitres en surprises. Bonne-Bouche. Petits sabots Hollandaise. MENU I.X. HoRS-D’QiuvRE. Foie-gras aux truSes glace. Potage. Consomme a la Dubarry. Poisson. Limandes au Souchet. Entree. Souffle au jambon. Ron. Perdreaux bardes. Celeri a la inoelle. Entremets. Pommes a la neige. Creme Celestine. Bonne-Bouche. Batons a la Parme. IHNER DE NOEL. [Christmas Dinner.) Hors-d’CEuvre. Huitres d’Ostende. Potage. Consomme a la tortue. Crfeme de eeleri. Poisson. Trongon de saumoii. Sauce mousseline. Releve. Baron de boeuf. .Artichauts a la Macedoine. Ron. Faisan pique Dinde farcie. Salade Franfaise. Pommes Julienne. Entre.mets. Pouding de Noel. Poires a la Hiro.Tdelle. Biscuits glaces aux violettes. Petits fours assortis. Perles a la Gruydre. Fruits et dessert.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1024 BALL SUPPER MENUS. To compose a well-balanced menu for a ball supper is not always an easy matter. Indeed, the arranging of a correct menu for any recherche function is regarded as the highest attainment of culinary art. There are quite a number of fashionable hosts who select the dishes for the menus of their ball supper parties without giving consideration to the character and taste of their guests ; they seem to rather please themselves in the matter of selection before giving any special thought to the gastro- nomic regulations. This is a mistake, for such menus generally result more or less in a fiasco. The following menus will offer some practical help and suggestions as to what really should constitute a supper menu. SOUPER DU BAL (BALL SUP Consomme eu tasses. Saumon a la Suedoise. Trauchettes de homard. Filets de sole en aspic. Pate de foie-gras en croiite. Chartreuse de faisan. Langue de boeuf a I’ecarlate. Chaud-froid de volatile. Petites bouchees de mauviettes. Galantine de chapon. J ambon braise a la gelee. Salades. Sandwiches. Compotes de fruit. Gelee au marasquin. Babas au kirsch. Dames d’honneur. Glaces varies de fantaisie. SOUPER DE BAL. Mayonnaise de saumon. Cotelettes de homard. Chaud-froid de poulet. Langue a I’&arlate. J ambon a la gelee. Boeuf a la Presse- Galantine de volaille. Sandwiches varies. Salade de Romaine. Foie-gras aux truffes. .Asperges a la vinaigrette. Charlotte Russe. Patisserie Suisse. Gelee aux bananes. Salade de fruits. Au depart. Consomme de volaille. 50UPER DE THEATRE (THEATRE SUPPER). Bouillon d’asperges. Cassoulets de homard. Filets de volaille, Chevalifere. Cotelettes d’agneau, Miracourt. Salade Mikado. Gateau de piches, Rcjane. Dessert.1025 BALL SUPPER MENUS.1026 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. SUPPER MENUS. MENU DU 50UPER. SOURER DU BAL. Mayonnaise de homard. Supremes de sole froides, Cardiaale. Aspic de foie-gras a I’ancienne. Chaud-froid de poulet a la Perigueux. Langue de bceiif a la gelfe. Jambon d’York. Boeuf roti, sauce Raifort. Salade verte. Salade de toinate. Bavarois panache. Gelfe au marasquin. Gateau meringue. Chartreuse de fruits. Petits fours. Glaces fantasies. Dessert. Consomme de volatile en tasse. MENU DU SOURER. Cotelettes de saumon. Filets de soles. .Aspic de crevettes a I’lndienne. Cotelettes d’agneau a la Strasbourg. Poulet au cresson. Petits pains a la Parisienne. Langue de boeuf en aspic. J ambon d’York. Chaud-froid de volaille Portugaise. Mauviettes farcies a la Perigord. Ballotines a la Renaissance. Mayonnaise de homard. Chaud-froid de cailhs en Belle-Vue. Asperges a la Normande. Sandwich varies. Gelees. Bavaroise. Patisserie. MacMoi le de fruits. Savarin au curagao. Pouding glace. SOURER DU BAL. Consomme croute au pot. 1. Mayonnaise de hom.-ird. 2. Zephires de foie-gras. 3. Dindonneaux farcie a la modenie. 4. Pate de gibier a la Frangaise. 5. Hiire de sanglier a la Royale. 6. Chapon roti au cresson. 1. Langue de boeuf a I’epicurienue. 8. J ambon d’York a la gelee. 9. Faisan rotis froid. lo. Salade a la Franfaise. n. Gelee a la Russe. b. Crime Nesselrode. c. Charlreuse d’abricot. d. Crime aux fraises. c. Gateau a rimperiale. Dessert. Plat Chaud (12.30). Poulet en casserole. Poissons. Pates des huitres. Mayonnaise de saumon. Eperlans a la Celestine. Crabe a la Paris. Salade de homard. Salade de langouste a la Chambord. Filets de rougets en aspic garnis aux icrevisses. VlANDES. Rosbif a I’Anglaise. Diude braise. Filets de volaille a la neige. Filets de canard a la Sultan. Dindon a la Chatsworth. Pigeon a la Seftoil. Pates de gibier. Mauviettes a la Parisienne. Salade de gelinotte. Sandwiches. Crime de marasquin. Gelee a I’orange. Gelees. Gateaux. Fruits. Vins, &c. BALL SURRER. Fish. Oyster patties. Mayonnaise of salmon. Smelts, Celestine style. Dressed Crab, I’arisian style. Lobster salad. Crawfish salad, Chambord style. Fillets of red mullet in aspic, decorated with crayfish. Meats. Roast beef. Braised turkey. Fillets of fowl in snow. Fillets of ducks, Sultan fashion. Turkey in the Chatsworth style. Pigeons in the Sefton fashion. Game pies. Larks in the Parisian style. Grouse salad. Sandwiches. Maraschino cream. Orange jelly. Jellies. Cakes. Fruits. Wines, &c.1027 BUFFET REFRESHMENFS. BUFFET REFRESHMENTS, Menus for Receptions, Cinderellas, Dances. Conversaziones, At Homes, Weddinjfs, High Teas, Etc. Sandwiches. Ham, beef, lobster, salmon, anchovy, watercress. Cold roast beef. Salad. Various pastries. * Strawberry ice. Lemon water ice. White and brown bre.id and butter. Biscuits. Mineral waters. Tea and coffee. Mineral waters. Tea and coffee. Brown and white bread and butter. M.ideirat sultana, and other cakes. Dessert biscuits. Macaroons. Continental pastry. Cold ham and beef. Sandwiches. Lobster. Salmon. Ham. Tongue. Beef. Foie-gras. Neapolitan ices. Roast and boiled chicken. \'ork ham. 0.x tongue. Raised veal and ham and pigeon pies. Tomato salad. Vanilla cream. Lemon sponge. Fruit pies. Various pastries. Dinner rolls. White and brown bread and butter. Noyau jelly. Lemon jelly. Chartreuse of strawberries. Strawberry ice cream. Orange water ice. Biscuits. Tea and coffee. Fruits. Fort. Sherry. Claret. Brandy. Irish and Scotch whiskies. Champagne and claret cups. Lemonade and soda water. Tea and coffee served with cream. Thin white and brown bread and butter. Pound cake. Madeira cake. Sultana cake. Rout biscuits. Wine biscuits. Dessert biscuits. French pastry. Macaroons. Meringues. Carlsbad plums. Crystallised fruit. Assorted sweets. Chocolate almonds. Champagne jelly. Macedoine fruit jelly. Sandwiches. Smoked salmon. Victoria. Ham. Beef. Tongue. Foie-gras. Biscuit ices. Petits fours. Desseri. WEDDING RECEPTIONS. Bridal cake. Champagne. Tea. Coffee. Brown and white bread and butter. Sandwiches, Salmon. Foie-gras. Lobster. Chicken. Gateau.x Assortis. .Angel cakes. Madeira. Tennis. Sultana. Petits fours. Bon-bons. Moka and chocolat eclairs. Vanilla and Neapolitan ices. Strawberries and cream. Fruit salad. Claret cup. Lemonade. Iced coffee. Fruit as in season. Bridal cake. Champagne. Mayonnaise of salmon. Filets de soles a la creme d’ancliois. Oyster and lobster patties. Roast fowls. Ox tongues. Galantine of veal. A'ork ham. Raised pigeon pies. Salads. Compote of apricots. Pineapple cream. Chocolate cream. Maraschino jelly. Lemon j?lly. V'arious fancy pastries. Gateaux. Meringues. Brown and white bread and butter. Dinner rolls. Tea and coffee. Biscuits. Strawberry cream ice. Pineapple cream ice. Orange water ice. Vanilla wafers. Fruits.1028 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Y HIGH TEA MENUS. ^ I. VI. White and brown bread and butter. White and brown bread and butter. Sultana cake. Angel cake. Buttered scones. Brioches. St. Cloud tartlets. r Cocoanut buns. Jam, marmalade. ^ Tea scones. Scrambled eggs. Marmalade and jam. Lamb cutlets with grilled tomatoes. Potted salmon. Egg sandwiches. — White and brown bread and butter. VII. Tea cakes. White and brown bread and butter. Sublets. Watercress. Honey. Damson jam. Sardine eclairs. Honey. Stewed steak. Apricot talmouses. Potato croquets. ' Dundee cake. III. Lemon marmalade. Buttered toast. White and brown bread and butter. Canadian curlers. Buttered toast. Cold chicken and ham. Maids of honour. Radishes. Blackberry jam. Preserved ginger. VIII. Ovster patties. ,, , White and brown bread and butter. Veal cutlets. " Honey cakes. Ginger nuts. Fried potatoes. Sally Lunn. IV. White and brown bread and butter. Anchovy toast. Sardine sandwiches. Preserves. Pigeon en casserole. Gingerbread. Cream buns. Preserves. Hot potato scones. Chipped potatoes. Egg sandwiches. IX. Clarence tartlets. White and brown bread and butter. Veal cake. Buttered toast. Strawberries and cream. Savoy cake. Meringues. Sponge fingers. V. White and brown bread and butter. Preserves. Foie-gras rissoles. Potted beef. Madeira cake. X. Cream puffs. Honey. White and brown bread and butter. Peach dartois. Paisley scones. Sardines. 1 j' Cornflour cake. Shortbread. Tomato sandwiches. Scotch marmalade. Pigeon pie. Grilled ham and peas. Celery. Chicken patties. Lettuces. LUNCH AND PICNIC BASKET MENUS. I. IV. Cold lobster cutlets. Tranchettes of turbot. Pressed beef a la gelec. III. Veal cutlets Fran9aise. Chicken with mayonnaise. Salmon darioles. Chicory salad. Tomato salad. Sardine sandwiches. Larks in cases. Fruit jellies. Rolled sandwiches. Banana and strawberry salad. Scotch eggs. If. Strasbourg pates. V. Salmon in aspic. Chicken croquets. Cold consomme in cups. Shrimp friandines. Cucumber. Lettuces. Lobster patties. Chaud-froid of cutlets. Fruit jellies. Chicken galantine. Green peas salad. Swiss pastry. French bean salad. Compote of fruit. ' Cheese. Fruit tartlets. Sardine fclairs. Cheese fingers. ^ ^Facsimiles of Menus of His Majesty King Edward VII.’s Court. r ..MENU.. Consomme Printauier a I’lmperiale. Consomme froid a I’lndienne. Blanchailles au Nature! et a la Diahle. Fileis de Truites a la Russe. Coteleties de Cailles a la Claraart. Foulardes h la Norvegienne. Selles de Presale a la Nujoise. JamI)on d’Espagne a la Basque. Ortolans rotis sur Canapes Salade des quatre Saisons. Asperges froides a la Vinaigrette. Gateau Punch granit au Champagne. Gradins de Patisseries Canapes d’.Aiicnois a la Provenqdle Petits SoulBcs Glaces Prmcesse Gaufrettes (INGHAM PALACE, (^ryvac^ryt/rril cfi/5{ a. ^ 9tcA,riJi Ucl^il^liaiTL pSafao., ^UiXi dt oJ.Wt&fc a. Ia. ^bsunifk^ti dfc •^erynajtJ^ fL. fc»^ V^fe>^J.A. ^^Keertti <u \^oe^ «. ^ei^f fiFuiA*|Ai»^/C cU (?oJd^ *l Co.^ *fcu*L£fuJ »3l<3^fct,tt3 cLt^U-So^ ix. ta.^1^8^ , 3vit.ei o-co 0w^v»«. qR<-etivAM^ <x Co. (^cAVtx£> V^u?«s cl-t. ^^'l.«tA.t.t5 t^StA-T Vi c^viAOo/' l9oJL MaitreChef: M. JUSTE MENAGER, G.C.A.1030 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. ft petitf3 dlfoi^au di (>>fuf C>iav3e dttic(ia»t} a f'Jfoffcm3av5i! 3oi»(al3e5 ■ Sdfa3f @facf : 0!«mf a ta oVo4tuijai3f - o'’dto5ftw Dessert Dinner of H.M. the King of Italy. ( li /a (i/tcc- de-^'oYcuY/e ri ^ SotuTe^ ^<iynY'&r7.s a To. SBoAeynT&nne' Se//e.s d Ct^ne^ZM- de> SoYY&s Cxit/YeJ' -rx>^zes v^z'iAS Sottj^K^ d, ^ 0 GzY^izft3 Gr-»uYe.s jC^AorU&nzies Dinner Party of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, K.G. Hrmts el Desscii Gala Dinner of II. M. King Alphonso of Spain. Dejeuner given in honour of the late King Carlos of Portugal.FACSIMILES OF ROYAL MENUS. 1031 Race Luncheon to H.M. King Edward VII. at Dinner of T.M. the King and Queen of Nom’ay. Leoparastovvn.1032 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. FACSIMILE OF A MENU FROM THE TRANSLATION OF THE SPANISH ROYAL COURT OF SPAIN. MENU. f6 </€ Qy/^oco <7^ /90S. a ^^/ramo-n^fia ^ta/c a /a (^Cnn (2^7!^ (7^/^Q/Mma ad<u/<>:> Banquet du i6 Mars, 1908. Consommi de Tortue. Potage i la Maiiitenon. Petits pat^s de riz a la Pi^montaise. Quenelles de Canetons piqu^es 4 la Senn. Cotelettes d’agneau froides 4 la Princesse. Piice de Boeuf brais^e a I’Espagnole. Petits pois au beurre. Haricots verts sautes. Poulardes du Mans roties. Salade a I’Ambassadrice. Asperges, Sauce Hollandaise. Gateaux Mousseline a la Cddard. Glacd a la Pedro. Tartelettes a la Gisors. Maitre Chef, M. L. Chevriot, M.C.A. This Banquet, given by H.M. the King of Spain, was served at the Royal Palace, Madrid, in honour of Prince Kumi of Japan. DINER ROYALE. Consomme aux perles. Turbot a la B&hamel. Noisettes de mouton. Haricots verts a I’.Anglaise. Sarcelles roties Salade de celeri. Gateau mousseline. Crfeme au chocolat. Dessert. Caf4 turc. ENGLAND AND DENMARK. c£^dx^:€‘C'4€> d 7c GT^^c^ f/e cit-ma yy^u/a:) "^C't'TcT^i^yA' d. Menu of a Dejeuner composed in honour of their Majesties the King and Queen of Denmark’s visit to England, June, 1907;— 1) Denises a la Danoise E E Entrecotes de Saumon, Copenhagen N N Navarin d’agneau. Brandimbourg G IVl Mousses de Cailles a la Several L A Asperges glac^es a la Hilda A R Ravioles de Praises a la Carmen N K Karoly Eclairs a la Maryland D C. H. S.1033 MENUS FROM ROYAL COURTS. W s “1 GALA uInER given BY THE KING OF BAVARIA. Consomme a la Pcrsigny. Jakobslachse, sauce ravigote. Rein de che\ reuil a la Russc. Bombe i la Rohan. Langouste en belle-vue. Chaponneau.x rotis, salade laifue. Fonds d’artichauts a la Lyonnaise. Peches a la Portugaise. Gi-ace. Vanille et groseilles. Munich, July 30, 1908 GALA DINER GIVEN BY H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES. Consomme a la Pi incesse Alice. Filets de soles frits. Supremes de volatile a la Gonrieff. Jambons a la Boh^miennc. Selles d’agneau de Galles. Cailles ruties. .Asperges vertes. Souffles h la d’Orleans. Croiites Laponiennes. Marlborough House, 10//; March. 1908. Ma'itre Che/: Mons. H. Cedarii, G.C.A. GALA DINER GIVEN BY H.A.M. EMPEROR JOSEPH IN HONOUR OF T.M. THE EMPEROR AND EMPRESS OF GERMANY. Potage iTaacillon. SoufUfe St. Hubert. Truites saumonfes a la gelee. Piece de bceuf et noix de jambon. Mousse d’raevisses a la Meuse. Sorbet. Poularde du Mans. Salade — Compote. .Asperges d’Argenteuil. Charlotte de peches a la Raoul. Fromage-Glaces variees-Dessert. STATE BALL SUPPER MENU GIVEN BY H.M. THE KING OF NORWAY. Chaud. Cutelettes de PrGSale 4 la Maraichere. Froid. Saumon k la Regina. Barquettes A la Lucullus. Supremes de Gelinottes a la Brillat- I Savarin. Filets de veau k la Portugaise. Langues et jambon decoupes a la gelee. Cotes de bceuf i la Fran^aise. Sandwiches assortis. Salade de laitues A la mayonnaise. Salade Russe en petites caisses. Entremets. Glaces variees. Bavarois aux fraises des Bois. Gelee de framboises en tasses. Petits Babas A la Richelieu, f Patisserie. Fruits. Dessert. Roval Palace, Christiania. I nofif, 1908. Chef de Cuisine : Mons. .A. Moser. M.C.A. Vienne, Ic 14 i, 1909.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1034 CORONATION MENU. MENU OF THE DEJEUNER Served on the Coronation Day of His Majesty King Edward VII. and Queen Alexandra, at Euckingham Palace, on August 9, 1902. CEufs k rimptotrice. Cotelettes pariees grillees, sauce mayonnaise. Canetons a la Rouennaise. Poulardes roties au cresson. Homards au naturel, sauce Remoulade. Les viandes froides a la gelee. Salade des quatre saisons. Courges au gratiii. Pommes de terre i la serviette. Rood Grdod. Compote de pcches 4 la Cardinal. Patisserie Parisieime. Mai/re Chef; J. MI-naghr, G.C.A. Menu of a Private Dinner of H.M. Victor Emmanuel III., King of Italy. PoTAGE : Creme de volaille 4 la reiiie. Escalopes de soles 4 la Colbert. Filet de boeuf 4 I’Anglaise. Asperges, sauce Hollandaise et vinaigrette. Poulardes roties. Salade. Glace ; Groseille farcie. Patisserie. Dessert. Dhier du 30 nvril, 1901. Menu of a Gala Diner given by H.M. King Humbert of Italy. Huitres. Potage consomme 4 la princesse. Pat(£ de foie-gras de Strassbourg en Belle-Vue. Truite du lac de Garde, sauce Venitienne. Filet de boeuf a la Comtesse. Dindonneau souffle 4 la diplomate. Escalopes de homard 4 la Colombo. Punch a la Romaine. Truffes blanches a la Piemontaise. Roti pintades et ortolans. Salade 4 la Parisienne. Peches 4 la Suedoise. Gateau Malaga. Dessert. Glace Cassata 4 la Sicilienne. Genova, 10 septembre, 1898. Private Dinner of H.I.M. The Czar of Russia. Potage tortue 4 I’Anglaise. Petites pates. Turbot, sauce mousseline. Selle de Pre-Sale renaissance. Canetons de Nantes. Cailles rotis. Salade. Fonds d’artichauts. Petits pois. Ananas et fraises 4 la Parisienne. Dessert. Le 28 mni, 1903.FACSIMILES OF ROYAL MENLfS. 1035 Facsimile 01 the Menu ot Their Royal Highnesses The Prince and Princess of Wales's Wedding Breakfast. THE ROYSL V/EDI)!NG BREAKFAST, Thursday, 6th July 1898 ‘ POTACES. Herrioise a 1 Irnperatrice. Oerne d,. Ri, i . entrees ’CHAUDES). Cotelettes d Agneuu a I Italiennc. Aigiillettes de Canetoris aux Pok RELEVES. Filet, d^ Kmuf a la Napolitame Poulet.s gras au C,THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1036 THE Royal Wedding Breakfast. Wednesday. 22nd July, 1896. 15^., POTACES' A la Pniicesse. Vermicelle a la Windsor. ENTREES (CHAUDES) CotelcUes d’Agneau a ITtalienne. Ai"uilettes clc Canetons aux pois. RELEVES. Filets de Buiuf a la Napolitaiiie. Poulets gras aux Cressons. ENTREES (FROIDES). Chaudfroids de Volaillc sur Croutes. Salades dTImnard. Jambons decoupes a I’Aspic. Langues decoujxies a I'Aspic. Mayonaises de Volaille. Koulades de Veau a la Gelee. Haricots verts. Epiiiards. (ielces et Cieines. Patisserie assortie. Facsimile of the Menu of T.R.H. Prince and Princess Charles of Denmark’ Wedding Breakfast.1037 FACSIMILRS OF ROYAL MENUS. \ tj .111:''^ 'r S AT ur^DAY 2^July 1 S 59 pOTaqes Aux Qiicneltes nu Consomm^* la rreme de Ri ENTREES Les Cotelettes d'Agneau Sauce Italienne. Les LiJels de Volaillc bigar^es aux Trufl’es. Lcs Aigiulleties de Canetons aux Pois.* nSLEVES Lf.s Pouinrdes k la Jardiniere. Les Truites k la Norvegc Le Filer de B<ruf braise a l.i Gelee ENTREES FROIOES Les Aspics de Gibier en Helle Vue. Les Chauds Froides de Poulets aux I/gumes. Les Salades de I lomard- Les Mayonaises de Volailie. ROTS X Cressons. Les Orlolans. Les Poulets Gi Epinardsau Velonte. i. Les Cremes a la d’Orleans. Les Puddings Diplomate. la Moderne. Les Gateaux au thocylai et Moka. Les Fo'S k la F.ranqaise et 1 Les Gelees de Fruits et Champagne. Kiiite .Schaale Von Fruchlen. Les Meringncs a 1 Les Babas au Kirsch Facsimile of the Menu of the Wedding Breakfast served on the occasion of the Marriage of H.R.H. Princess Louise to the Duke of Fife.038 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. GRAND DINER. UANS LES SALONS UU PRINCE CHARLES.DE HOHENLOHE=KlRCHBERQ iLE i8 MARS, 1771. POT.iGES. a la Russel, au.\ marrons, aux vermicelles, a la puree de racines. Croutes au pot gratings. POISSONS. [ Sauinoii sauce Genoise. Carpe du Rhin a la Chanibord. RELEVES Pieces de boeuf en surprise. Selle de chevreuil, sauce poivrade. ENTREES. Poulardes en petit deuil. Blanquette aux truffes. Saute de perdreaux fumes. Pate chaud a la finauciere. Vol-au-vent de turbot a la crfeme. Ris de veau pique, glace, sauce tomate. Filets de lapereau en gibelote. Cromesqui a la Russe. Filets d’agneau piqufe, glaces, sauce Espaguole. Petits pates au salpicon. Ailerons de dindon au soleil. Chartreuse de tendrons de veau. Pieds d’agneau a la poulette. Pigeons a la Voltaire, sauce Hollandaise. Sorbets au rhum. Sorbets au kirsch. GROSSES PIECES D’ENTREMETS. Gateau monte. Kocher. Carpe au bleu. Buissoii d’ecrevisscs. ROTS. Quartier de Pre-Sale. Loiige de veau de Poiitoise. Becasses aux croutons. Faisans de Bohenie. Salade de laitues. Salade de chicoree. LEGUMES. Petits pois au beurre. .^sperges, sauce a la Portugaise. Choux-fleurs, sauce bruue. Petites feves liees. Concombres a la maitre d’hotel. CEufs poches aux truffes a I’aspic. ENTREMETS. Petits pots au cafe vierge. Gelee de marasquio. Gelee de citron renversee. Petits pains a la duchesse. GL.iCES. a I’ananas, aux framboises. Dessert.ROYAL MENUS. 1030 AN AUTHENTIC MENU OF NAPOLEON III. Facsimile of the original Menu served to the Emperor Napoleon 111. of France at the Tuileries Palace, Paris, on April 30, 1860.A LEAF OUT OF KING GEORGE IV.’s GOLDEN BOOK. Above is a facsimile of the Menu served at Buckingham Palace to King George IV. on October 9, 1824. N^tc.—The names in the left-hand margin are those of the cooks who prepared the dishes.104 I AMERICAN “DINERS DE LUXE.” Menu at per head, without , WINE. Hiutrcs. Sauce Mignonette. Con.somnie Duches.se. Amontillado. Mousseline a la Moleski. Radis. Olives de Luegeu. Celeri en branche. Bass Rayee au Dauphin. Tomates farcies a la Trevise. Selle d’Agneau de lait, Chartreuse. Salmi de Faisan Anglais Lorenzo. Pointes d'Asperges. Ris de veau Fleur-de-Lys. Pois nouveaux Fleurette, Sorbets Montmorency. Canards Canvas Back. Gelec de Groville. Salade. Charlotte Parisienne. Glaces. Petits Fours. Fruits. Bonbons. Cafe. Served nl Dehnonico’s Restaurant, New York. - Menu at £}, per head, without wine. Caviare. Potage Renaissance. Clear green turtle. Agneau de Printemps. Haricots verts. Pommes nouvelies. Jambon de Virginie aux Epinards. Filet of Capon a la Genin, Pousin rdti. Mignardise de Foie-gras. Salade. Glace mousse au fraises. Fromage. Cafe. I Served at the Hotel St. Regis, Neto York. \ ^l:r== —- -L- , . I. Menu of the famous Dinner ■" given by Mr. Kessler at the j Savoy Hotel. London, which cost I ;^3,ooo (24 Guests were present). Melon Cantaloup a la Savoy. Tortue Claire cn tasse. , Souffle de Homard a I’Americaine. Filets de Sole en Caisse a la Venitienne. I Cherubine de Chapon a la Gon- \ doliere. ' Agneau de Pauillac a la broche. i Petits pois Bonne-Maman. Coupe d’Or au Moet. ' Supreme de Caneton de Rouen au Sang. Salade cceurs de Laitues. I Asperges froides Vinaigrette, j Bombe St. Marc. Buisson de peches de Montreuil au Dauphin. I Chateau Mille-feuilles a la Vierge. Friaudises. Diablotins a la Nana. Corbeille de fruits. I Savoy Hotel, Junc^oth, 1905. I General Manager : '|y Mr. Henri Prucer. 3 UTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1042 A TYPICAL AMERICAN DINNER MENU. Oysters. SOUPS. Consomme a la Dubarry. Green Turtle. SIDE DISHES. Radishes. Anchovy canapes. Caviare. Olives. Salted Almonds. Celery. FISH. Striped Bass aiguillettes with oyster crabs. Cucumbers. Potatoes Lorette. REMOVES. Saddle of venison a la Francatelli. Cauliflower a la Villeroi. ENTREES. Chicken fillets a la Primatice. Asparagus tops h la Maintenon. Terrapin, Trenton style. Sherbet cordon rouge. Fine champagne. R0.4ST. Wild turkey a la Delagrange, cranberry sauce. SWEETS. Plum pudding. Mince pies. Ice cream mokabelle. Fruits. Fancy cakes. Coffee. AMERICAN BREAKFAST MENU. Apples. Strawberries. Oranges. Radishes. Clam bouillon. Oatmeal with cream. Eggs to order. Omelets with maraschino. Broiled shad with roe. Tenderloin steak. Lamb kidneys, with bacon. English snipe on toast. Fried oysters. Potatoes. Baked. French fried. Stewed in cream. Buckwheat cakes. Waffles. Orange marmalade. Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. MENU OF THE GOLDEN BANQUET TO PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT. Given June, 1903, at the Palace Hotel, San Francisco, U.S.A. Pamplemousse aux cocktails d’huitres frappes. Tortile verte claire a son Excellence Hors-d’oeuvres varies. Canapes Alaska. Bass rayee Pacifique k I'amiral. Pommes nouvelles gastronome. Concombres aux piments. Coeurs de filets de boeuf bienvenu. Croustades de terrapine a I’ancienne. Sorbet att champagne, Columbia. Poulet de grains truffles. Petits pois au beurre. Fonds d’artichauts farcis, Marquise. Asperges nouvelles froides aux fines herbes. Biscuits glaces dores k la Californie. Fraises sur socles en glace au marasquin. Mignardises. Paillettes au Parmesan. Pieces montees. ' Fantaisies en nougat. Dessert. Cafe noir. A ROYAL BALL SUPPER. Service Chaud. Consomme en tasse. Champignons frais sur croutes. Petites mousses de jambon, sauce Champagne. Aspic de crevettes. Pigeonneaux truffes. Becassines au cresson. Coquilles d’huitres. Service Froid. (Buffet). Pate de foie-gras ea croiite. Galantine de faisans sur socle. Cliaud-froid de mauviettes en Belle-Vue. Saumon ii la tartare. Mayonnaise de homards. Sandwiches assortis. Entremets. Gelee au Madfere. Bavarois riib.ines. Glaces de fantaisie. Biscuits glaces. Petits fours. Fruits. Cafe.ANCIENT AND HISTORICAL MENUS. indicated on the original Me 111 as a sign of his approval. 1043 Bncient anC> Ibtstovical /Ibeiius auD Bills of jfare. Copy of Bill of Fare of a Four= course Dinner as served in the year 1349. FIRST COURSE. Browet farsed and charlet for pottage. Baked mallard. Small birds. Almond milk served with them. Capon roasted with the syrup. Roasted veal. Pig roasted “ endored.” Herons. A “ leche." A tart of flesh. SECOND COURSE. Brevvet of almayne and viand vial for pottage. Mallard. Roast rabbit. Pheasant. Jelly. .A “ leche.” Hedgehogs. Venison. Pomes de Orynge. A DINNER IN 1720. The following is the Bill of Fare provided in 1720 by an Englishman who gave a dinner to his neighbours. The following was the Menu :— ■A Westphalia ham with chicken. Carps and escalloped oysters. Soup with teal. .A dish of sucking rabbits. Salads and pickles. A venison pasty. Roasted geese. A dish of gurnets. Umble pie. Roasted hen turkey with oysters. For the second course: A chine of salmon and smelts. Wild fowls of sorts. A tansy. Collared pig. A pear tart creamed. Sweetmeats and fruits. Jellies of sorts. A dish of fried soles. Copy of one of the late King of Hanover’s Menus as printed. DINER DU 27 SEPTEMBRE, 1845. Girot .. . . Un potage de perdreaux au chasseur. Girot .. .. Un potage clair a la printanito. Huitres au naturel. Kortling .. .. .. S.andets bouillis, sauce anchois. Girot .. .. .. Une culotte de bo?uf A la Flamande. Girot .. . . Filets de poulets a la Marengo. Kortling .. .. Haricots verts garnis d'escalopes de mouton grille. Ebding .. .. .. Levrauts rbtis a la gelee de groseilles. Kortling .. .. .. Une compote de pommes a la Streilitz. Kortling .. .. .. Une fanchonette aux amandes. Rohby .. .. .. Glaces de peches. [This practice of appending the chefs’ names to the dishes, as prepared by them, was very popular at this period, and remained so for several years.] DINNER MENU OF FREDERICK THE GREAT, KING OF PRUSSIA, AUGUST 5, 1786 (beinff 12 Soupe aux choux a la Foiique.* Du banif au panais et carottes.* Des poulets cn cannelons aux concombre ^ farcis au blanc a I’Anglaise. , Petits pates a la Romaiue. Cebratene jungc Couleussen. I Note.—The dishes marked with asterisks were before his death). Du saumon a la Dessau.* Des fillets de volaille a la Pompadour. Des langues de bceuf. Dos croquettes. Gateaux Portugaise. Petits pois.* Harengs frais.* Cornichons au vinaigre. tliose partaken of by the King, and were thusTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. MARECHAL DE RICHELIEU, Paris le s f^vrier. DEJEUNER. Une tete de veau en tortue. QUAERE GROSSES PIECES FROIDES. Buisson de truffes au vin de Champagne. Hiire de sanglier. Pate de Pithiviers. Des hiiitres fraiches. HUIT HORS D'CEUVRE D’OFFICE. Quatre de figues vertes. Deux de beurre d’anchois. Un de caviar Russe. Un de radis. SIX HORS-D’CEUVRE DE CUISINE. Pieds de pore a la Sainte-M6nehould. Cdtelettes de inouton en crepinettes. Ailerons de dindons k la marechal. Attereaux de filets de merlans. Paupiettes de palais de boeuf. Boudins de faisan. Carre de mouton en fricandeau. Filets de perdreaux a la Zingara. Grives au genijvre. Vol-au-vent de legumes. Saute de filets de volaille supreme. Aspic de liomards au beurre de Montpellier. Ris de veau glace, garni de choux de Bruxelles. DESSERT. Quatre corbeilles garnies de chasselas, poires et grenades. Douze tambours garnis de petits fours assortis. BILLS OF FARE OF A DINNER AND SUPPER MENU, 1788. HOTEL DE VILLE DE PARIS. DIX ENTREES. Saute de filets mignons de boeuf aux tomates. DEUX COMPOTES. Deux de poires. Deux de verjus. Une de marrons. Une d’epine-vinette. Quatre assiettes de fruit confits. Douze assiettes de fruits glacfe au caramel. Served in 1522 to the Emperor Charles V. and his suite when quartered in the City of London. DYNER. SOPER. The first course, soper. The first course for dyner. Pottage. Potage. Chykyns boyled. Jegges [gigot] of motton. Capons. Kyde I. lambe. Dowcettes [custards]. Boyled capon. Gr. sh. Young vele. Grene gese. Kyde 1. lambe. Custurdes. Fruttour[s]. The second course. Jussel [broth]. The second course. Jelly, Iprocas [half white wine, half claret]. Chykyns. Pejons. Rabettes. Tarte[s], Pejons. Chykyns. Rabettes. Tarttes.1045 ANCIENT AND HISTORICAL MENUS. MENU DU DINER OF THEIR MAJESTIES EMPEROR WILLIAM I. AND \ EMPRESS OF GERMANY. | Potage d’orge a la priiicesse. Consomme printanier a la Royale. | Saumou du Rhiii, sauce Gciievoise. Turbot, sauce aux huitrcs. Piece de bceuf a la Flamande. Jamboii glace au Madere. Poulardes a la Toulouse. Timbale a la Talleyrand. Homards a la Bagration. Pain de foie.gras a la gelce. Faisans de Bohenie rijtis. Petits pois a la Frangaise. ,\sperges a la Hollandaisc. Piiches aux riz a la Mainteiion. | Ponding souille a la vauille. I Gelee sultane a I'ananas. Charlotte I’arisienne aux pistaches. | Dessert. | Berlin, Oct. i8, i86r. ‘ BANQUET OF THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF ENGLAND. hoiidon, November g, 1822. MENU. i POTAGES. Priutailier aux quenelles. Bisque d’^revisses. Hors-d’CEuvre. Bouquet de crevettes. Aiichois. Olives. Releves. Truite sauinonee, sauce Genevoise et Hollaudaise. Filets de bceuf piques a la Richelieu. Entrees. Petits pates a la Montglas. Cotelettes d’agneau aux points d'aspcrges. Sorbets au rhum. Sorbets au kirsch. Ruts. Cailles bardees. Buisson de homards. Salade Romaine Entremets. Asperges en branches. Petits pois nouveaux a I’Anglaise. Bavaroise aux fraises. Bombes glacees a I’oraiige. Dessert. Corbeilles de fruits. Ainandes. Biscuits. Corbeilles de fieurs. ViNS, Sherry superieur. Chateau Yquem. Chateau Margaux. . Champagne Clicquot frappe. Oporto superieur. DEJEUNER DE NOCE, Lundi, 2 Janvier, 1812. H.A.NOVER SQUARE, LONDON. Captain Embleton. .MENU. POTAGES. a la reiiie, clear turtle printanier. Entrees. Cotelettes de mouton a la jardiniere. Petites bouchtes a la reine. Galantine decoree. Jambon decoree. Langue de bceuf a la gelee. Pates de faisans. Pates de pigeons. Poulets rotis. Mayonnaise de homards. .\spic de filets de soles. Salade de saison. Entremets. Charlottes a la Parisienne. Gelee Macedoine. Gelee au marasquin. Blanc-manger. Gateau de Chantilly monte. Gateau de Breton monte. Gateau Napolitain. Gateau de Savoie. Crferae Bavaroise au chocolat. Creme religieuse au cafe. Croquembouches d’oranges. Nougat monte. Glaces. Two quarts vanilla cream. Two quarts strawberry cream. Two cjuarts orange water. Four dozen wafers. Six dozen rolls. MENU OF A CHRISTMAS DAY LUNCHEON IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. Ye royal sir loyu of beef. Ye boar’s heade. Ye raised game pyc. Ye gal.antyne of veel. Ye roasted chykens. Ye boyled ham. Ye roasted fesant. Ye round of beef in gelee. Ye ox tongue. Ye saddle of ye mutton. Ye olde plumb pudding. Y'e minced pyes.1046 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. A BILL OF FARE IN THE PLAIN OLD ENGLISH STYLE. Ye aimuale Whytebaite Diaiier of hyr Majestye's Miaistcrs on Wednesdaie, ye lath August, 1858, atte ye Hostelrie yclept ye " Shippe,” atte Greenwiche. This Bille of ye Fare is drawn iu playne Englysh, without any cloake of Frenche or other foreygae tongue, for the sadde and sobere comforte of frendes, and that ye maye know what ye are asked to accept. YE BILLE OF YE FARE. ^'E SOUPE.—Soupe made from ye Turtle, and alsoe Soupe made from ye Greene Fatte of ye same. YE FUSHE.—Ye Flounders curyously cooked, and Salmoime servyd inne lyke mannere. Ryssoles of ye Lobstere. Ye lyttel Soles, fryed. Ye Pudynges of ye Whyting. Ye Eles skynned and stewed inne ye riche wyne of Oporto. Ye Omelette of Crabbe inne ye style as servyd to ye Guardes of ye Blue Scale. Ye Troute from ye River Spey, grylled with ye sauce of Tartar. Salmonne inne collopes with ye sauce inne ye Cyprus fashonne. Ye Whytebaite, befrizzled, and alsoe be-devylled. FLESHE AND FOWLE.—Sweetbreades, with ye Mushroomes added thereunto. Y’e Haunche of ye Royale Bucke, with Haricotte Beanes servyd therewith. Ye Antient Hamme, from ye Citye of York, grylled inne wyne of Champagne. Ye Grouse from ye Northe Countree. Hogge Bacon and younge Beanes. YE SWEETES, &c.—Apprycottes flavoured with Noyau. Pudynges iced, after ye Nesselrode mannere. Lyttle Cakes made with ye Cheese from Parma, inne Italie. Ye Ices flavoured with Oranges and Strauberres. Divers Fruytes which are your Desertes, and ye Wynes of Champagne and manie outlaiidysh countrees. Ye Dinner will be servyd after ye mannere of ye Russian people. Ye guestes are bydden to eate after ye Hungarie mannere. W. T. Ball, Mastere. A UNIVERSITY DINNER. HONOUR SCHOOL OF NUTRITIVE SCIENCE. Final E.xamination. Gastronomy. Notice to Candidates. “ Permission for the abuse of Cooks by the Candidates in any part of the Examination shall be ai the discretion of the Chairman." Viva Voce Work. For one of the capers printed syllabuses will be supplied at the Examination Schools. Practical Work. The abuse of Cooks will be permitted before the First Course, but not after that or any other. The word ‘‘ Cooks ” shall be taken to imply Head-Cooks, Under-Cooks, and Waiters, but not the Committee, President, or Members of any Scientific Society, nor any Serious-Panjandrum. [Strictly T. T., 1898.] Final Examination. General Gastronomy. 1. The liquid obtained by adding various substances to water has been called at different times —(a) a mess of potage, (6) tortue claire, (c) puree de pois verts. Discuss one of these and determine how far it is adapted to satisfy the requirements of science. 2. Decide the relative advantages and disadvantages of selecting saumon or blanchailles as the unit to which the term Poisson is to be referred. 3. The substance known as cotelettes d’ligneau used to be served with Tomato Sauce ; indicate the advantages of the present mode of serving it aux concombres. 4. What certainty exists in your mind as to the nature and composition of pates des crevettes ? Devote special attention to the Crustaceans as the Piazin. 5. Give an account of the Oxindoles, Eucarvon, and the naturally occurring Potatose. 6. In a certain (hoffentlich) non-reversible alimentary process equilibrium is established when canetons rotis = zero, wherein Canetons Rotis are the articles absorbed. Show that this condition is fulfilled in the presence of petits pois verts. 7. When assorted constituents are heated together ponding Chandler is evolved ; yet when cherries are baked with piecrust they are entirely converted into tartes des cerises. 8. Devise a practical method for arriving at the melting-point of iso’ vanillin. Randolph Hotel, Oxford. Manageress : Miss M. I. Crewe.ANCIENT AND HISTORICAL MENUS. 1047 MENU OF A ROYAL CITY BANQUET Served to H.M. KING GEORGE III. London, November 9, 1761. BILL OF FARF. King and Queen. Each four services and removes. First Service. Consisting of turrenes, fish, venison, &c. Nine dishes. Second Service, A line roast ; ortolans, quails, knotts, ruffs, pea chicks, &c. Nine dishes. Third Service. Consisting of vegetable and made dishes, green pease, green morrells, green Iruliles, cardoons, &c. Eleve.i dishes. Fourth Service. Curious ernaments in pastry, jellies, blomonges, cakes, &c. Nine dishes. Eight of the Royal Family. Four on the right hand of the King and four on the left. Each four services before them as follow :— First Service. Consisting of venison, turtle, soups, fish of every sort, viz. dorys, mullets, turbots, bets, tench, seals, &c. Seven dishes. Second Service. Ortolans, teals, quails, ruffs, snipes, partridges, pheasants, &c. Seven dishes. Third Service. Vegetable and made dishes, green pease, artichoaks, ducks’ tongues, fat livers, S;c. Nine dishes. Fourth Service. Curious ornaments in cakes, both savoury and sweet, jellies and blomonges in variety of shapes, figures, and colours. Nine dishes. MENU OF A SUPPER. Prepared and served at the .Abbaye den Dirkiigen, Bavaria. January 20, 1743. POT.iGES. Quenelles an coulis de gelinottes. Massepain an lait d’ainandes QU.iTRE RELEvks. Marcassin en daube. Esturgeons de la Baltique (sauce an fe.iouil). Jambons d'ours fumes. Rale d’elan an feu d’enfer. ENTREES. Sterlets du Volga au caviar. Salmis de coq de Bruyfire au via de Malaga. Vol-au-vent de rouges-gorges. Filet de sanglier, sauce aux prunes. Capilotade de faisaiis gras a I’estagon. Daiutiers de cerf au beurre d’ecrevisses. Langues de veau a la Wallenstein. Puree de becasses en turban. QU.iTRE ROT IS. Daim entier. Brochettes de grives de Gui. Brocard de chevrette couche. Oies sauvages aux oranges ameres. ENTREMETS. •Asperges au beurre fondu. Choux-fleurs dorcs. Croquettes de Nouilles. Gateau Vieniiois. Croute aux fruits. Pudding de I'.Abbaye. PIECES MONTEES. Cornets de gaufres garnis de creme. Napolitain glace a bananas. Froraages—Desserts les plus varies ; Frui s, fondants, &c. Vins des caves de I’Abbaye—Liqueurs asserties.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK [048 5. —Countersign, “ We won’t go home till morning.” By Order, A. Muncher. MENU OF A DINNER GIVEN BY PRINCE LOUIS DE BOURBON CONDE IN PARIS 9 Aoiit, 1652. 14 POTAGES MaiGRES dont uu aux ecrevisses du Rhiii et vin d’Espagne, et un aux hiiitres d'Angouleine et oeufs de perdrix rouges servis aux deux c6t& de son Altesse. 14 Plats de Poissons. Un sauinon de 20 ecus. Brochet de 19 livres. Carpe aux cEufs de Charnplastreux. Truite de Suisse, 24 livres. Turbot de Havre de Grace. Matelote de lamperoyes d’Angers. Hoche-pot de gibier de riviere. Gibelotte de poissons meles. Anguille a la broche, 9 livres 16 sous. Pate de barbottes de Rhone. Fricassee de lottes aux asperges. Morue fraiche aux groseilles vertes. D’aloses du Rouen grillees. D’esperlands farinnfe au cedrat. 14 Plats de Rot. 5 de poissons cui'.s au bleu. 4 de poissons cuits a la poisle. 4 de gibier de riviere a la broche. 14 Salades. 3 de legumes cuits. 3 d’herbes vertes. 6 d’oeufs accoinmodes diversement. 2 de citrons niusques, 10 ecus. 14 Assiettes Gaufrees. 7 de patisseries a fonds de creme. 7 de patisseries a fonds de fruit. 28 Jattes de Fruits et Autres, Desquels. 6 agaanats touts cntiers. 12 parquettes de fleurs de jonquilles a coiifire. A CONFIDENTIAL MILITANT DINNER. SPECIAL IDEA FOR NIGHT .A.TTACK. For 2ND May, 1903. I.—At 8.30 p.M. the forces will rendezvous at Lodge “ Victoria.” The enemy’s position will first be carefully reconnoitred by a detachment under Lieutenant Caviare. Mounted on toast, closely supported by Clear Soup and Salmon Mayonnaise. The front will then be rapidly cleared, and the first line, consisting of Chicken and Tongue in Aspic Ham, will advance and endeavour to effect a lodgment in front of the enemy’s position, where it will await the advance of the main attack under General Sir Loin of Beef, supported by Colonel Curry. Every attempt should be made to drive this main attack well heme. The third line will consist of Gooseberry Tart. The pursuit of the enemy will be carried out by the rst Light Prancing Gorgonzola. 2. —During the engagement every opportunity should be taken to preserve connection between the various units by means of drafts of Glenlivet and Bass. 3. —On the command “ Open Fire ” pouches will be opened, and the whole line will open fire indepen- dently with cheroots, cigarettes, and pipes. This ammunition will not be carried on mules. 4. —All casualties will remain under the table until picked up. Ambulances at ii p.m.ANCIENT AND HISTORICAL MENUS. ANCIENT ENGLISH BILL OF FARE. Ciftc of pe Cakes. Comfptcs. Patics jlnd ofber nourirhitients, goode for furtaininge or tbore u)Do daunce, ^ eke tDofe luDo doe not- Some Clear Soupe—warme, ’tis tor one & alle. Small Quail Birds trom Egypt, therefore with Sauce Lelleps Larks—they have no bones Argal. Eat them learletflie. Y® Pigeons—cooked taftilie as in Cattille. Small Pieces of Lobfter, made toothfome in Jelly. Small Chickenettes in blankets—very goode. Teal—this is how theye doe theme in Strafbourg. Y“ Goose Liver Pastry, ferved in tasty Savorie Jelly. Y® Pheasants—ye bird with y® taile. Y® Partridges—plump. Difh Pies with all fortes of Game in them. Chickens cooked in temjhing fafehion. Hams from Yorkfhire, with Jelly ryghte fuftaininge. Chickens again, roafted and tender. Y® Turkeys or Bubleyjocks, with Truffles. Try them. Y® kindlie Ox—hys Tongue. Pheafants once more—cunninglie cooked. More Chickens—made toothfome by Galantine. And then fome Lobfter Salade. Likewyfe fome French Salades And then come y® Sweetes, goode for all Men & Maydens. Some Wine Jelly. Some Jelly flavoured with Curagoa. Apricots—made ryghte delectable. Y® Cake of Brittany. Y® Creams of Venice. And eke y® Strawberrie Creams. Y® Oueene Puddings—moft goode. Ruffian Creame & Jell}^ & eke Italian Creame. Sweet Savorie Cakes, mayde colde with ice. Y® Smalle Baskets of Nougate, made toothfome.THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1050 A MENU IN WELSH. (Piped in QlacejRoyal.) Translation of the above Menu. Subalterns’ Dinner. 3RD AND 4TH Battalions Royal Welsh Fusiliers, Training, June, 1907. Menu. Consomme Duchesse a la Reine. Salmon, Parsley Sauce. Whitebait a la Diable. Sweetbreads a la Josephine. Sirloin of Beef. Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce. Asparagus. Souffle a la,Vanille. Macedoine de fruits. Kclairs a la Chantilly. Bombe Nesselrode. Angels on horseback. Dessert. Coffee. St. George’s Hotel, Llandudno Chef: Mr. F. Russell, M.C.A. A COUNTY BALL. Menu du 5ouper. ' Cotelettes de saumon. Filets de soles. Aspic de crevettes a I’lndienne. Cotelettes d’agneau a la Strasbourg. Poulet au cresson. Petits pains a la Parisienne. Langue de boeuf en aspic. Jambon d’York. Chaud-froid de volaille Portugaise. Mauviettes farcies a la Perigord. Ballotines a la Renaissance. Mayonnaise de homard. Chaud-froid de cailles en Belle-V ue. Asperges ii la Normande. Sandwiches varies. Geldes. Bavaroise. Patisserie. Macddoine de fruits. Savarin au curapao. Pouding glace. Consomme au depart. BACHELORS’ SUPPER. Bouillon d’Asperges en tasse. Saumon d’Ecosse grille, sauce tartare. Poularde de Presse a la gelee. Langue de boeuf. Quartier d’agneau, sauce men the. Salade de saison. Bavaroise rubauee. Gelee au champagne. Dessert. AN ENGLISH FAMILY DINNER. Clear soup with barley. Boiled turbot, shrimp sauce. Braised mutton chops. French beans. Roast widgeon. Celery salad. Mousseline cake. Chocolate cream. DINER D’AMIS. Natives. Consomme royal en tasse. Filets de soles Cleopatre. Cote d’agneau aux petits pois. Pommes Parisienne. Poulet cocotte. Salade de saison. Bombe pralinee. Petits fours. Champignons it la moelle. Dessert.THE CONSTIWCriON OF MENUS. AUTOGRAPH MENU OF M. URBAIN DUBOIS. I 5^ ^ , S^AAj-> ^ wvi/oa.5 , e,vt cAiyi,^ 0'^^^ 1 'f-tS^c>i<,.^ "3 «. ■‘^JUUtx^ T (Minute e.' '-A/Liv -^^cTj~ P The above manuscript is a facsimile of the Menu arranged by the famous Chef, the late Urbain Dubois, for a dinner prepared by him for M. Alexandre Dumas, who gave a dinner to his friends —15 in number—at the Maison Doree, Paris, in 1855, on the eve of his selling the famous Chateau de Monte-Christo, near St. Germain.1052 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Hors-d’ceuvre Varies. “Dishes alike delightful and appetising."—Leigh Hunt. POTAGE. Tortue verte. Bisque d'ecrevisses. Consomme de volaille a la printanifere. “Soup of the evening, beautiful soup.”—Alice in Wonderland. Poissons. Darues de saumon bouilli, sauce mousseliue. Pommes de terre nouvelles. Concombres. Filets de sole a la Guive. “ There’s no meal like theth; I could wish my best friend at such a feast."—Timon of Athens, i. 2. Releve. Filet de Boeut piqud a la Renaissance. What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?”—Taming of the Shrew, iv. 5. Entrees Chauds. Supreme de volaille a la Victoria. Ris de veau a la Perigueux. “ The daintiest that they taste."—2 Henry IV. Entrees Froides. Foie-gras ea belle-vue. Aspic de homard. “ To please all hinds of appetites."—Massinger. Ponche a la Romaiue, et cigarettes. “ You cannot judge the liquor from the lees."—Tennyson. Rons. AloyaU de boeuf a I’Anglaise. Quartier d’agiieau, sauce lueiithe. ‘ ‘ Look to the baked meats, good .-1 ngelica ; Spare not for cost."—Romeo and Juliet. Volaille. Cailles de vigiie sur canapes. Cane tons a la Rouennaise. Pommes pailles. Petits pois iiouveaux. “ .1 table richly spread in regal modes. With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort and savour."—Milton. Asperges en branches, sauce Hollandaise. Entremets. Pouding souffle a la Duchesse. Gel^e aux fruits. Vacherin a la Chantilly. “.-1 surfeit of the sweetest things."—Midsummer Night’s Dream. Glace en surprise. “ .4 piece of ice.”—Taming of the Shrew. Savoukeu.x. Petits souffles au fromage. Eclairs de sardines. “To make the matter savoury.”—Hamlet. Dessert. “Partook a choice repast.”—Massinger. Cafe double. “Coffee, which makes the politician wise, .And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.”—Pope.1053 GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. CHAPTER XL\\ GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. Abricote, /. Candied apricot, c. Masked with apricot marmalade. Ail (une gonsse d’ail), /. Garlic ; a clove of garlic, e. A la, /. X la mode de, after the style or fashion of ; a la franfaise, French style ; a la Reine, Queen style ; a rimperatrice. Empress style ; a la , Russe, Russian style, &c. A la broche, /. Roasted in front of the lire on spit or skewer. Albumine, /. Albumen (white of egg). Allemande (a 1’), /. German style. A surname to dishes where the prepara- tions are peculiar to Germany. Amalgamer,/. Amalgamate, e. To mix several substances. Anglaise (a 1’), /. English style. Affixed to a dish usually implies that it con- sists of something plain roasted or plain boiled, or that the dish is pre- pared in a style typical of this country ; it does not necessarily follow that it must be plain. Aromates, /. Vegetable herbs as used for flavouring. Aromatic herbs, such as thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, cher- vil, &c. Aspic, /. Savoury jelly; a I’aspic, set in aspic, or garnished with aspic. Assaisonner, /. To season, to flavour, to mix. Astrachan, /. Astrachan, e Name of a caviare, the best of its kind. Aubergine, /. An annual plant, a native of the West Indies ; also called egg-plant. Au gratin, /. A term applied to certain dishes covered with sauce, bread- crumbs, and browned in the oven or under a salamander ; served in the dish on which baked. Au maigre, /. A French expression used for dishes prepared without meat. Lenten dishes. Au naturel, /. Food cooked plainly and simply. Baba (from the Polish word babka"). A very light yeast cake. Substitute for tipsy-cake. Ballotine, /. Small balls or rolls of meat or fowl. Bain-Marie, /. The culinary water-bath, with a distinct set of small saucejians where sauces, &c., are kept so that they are nearly at the boiling point without burning or reducing. Barbecue, /. Form applied to the mode of cooking (roasting) an animal whole ; generally out of doors, hence a social entertainment iu the open air. Bearnaise, /. A word much used in cookery for a rich white herb sauce. Derived from the word Bearn, birth- place of King Heniy IV., who was a great gourmand. Bechamel, /. A rich white sauce. Re- cognised as one of the four foundation sauces. The name of this sauce is .supposed to come from the Marquis de Bechamel, an excellent chef, who acted as steward in the seiwice of King Louis XIV. Behague, /. Sometimes applied to prime mutton or lamb, and so listed in menus. Beurre noisette, /. Nut-brown butter, c. Butter melted over the fire until it begins to brown. Bisque, /. Name given to certain soups usually made with shellfish. Blanchir, /. To blanch, e. To put anything on the tire in cold water until it boils ; it is then drained and plunged into cold water ; to scald or par-boil. Blanc-mange, /. A white sweet food. A sweet cream set in a mould. Origi- nally a maigre soup, made of milk of almonds. It is wrong to add colour- ing matter to a blanc-mange ; hence chocolate blanc-mange is incorrect. Blonde de Veau, /. A very rich veal broth, used for flavouring and enrich- ing white soups and sauces. Bon-bons,/. Sugar confectionery; sweet- meats, cV'C. Bouchees, /. Small puff-paste patties (petits pates), small enough to be a traditional mouthful only.1054 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Boudin, /. A delicately prepared entree, usually ill the form of sausages made from quenelle meat or line mince. Bouillon, /. A plain clear soup. Un- clarilied beef broth. Bouquet garni, /. Bouquet of herbs, or Fagot, e. A small bunch of savoury herbs, parslejq thyme, and bay-leaves. It is tied up, in order to facilitate its removal after use. Used in stews, stocks, broths, braises, sauces, &c., to impart a rich flavour. Bourgeoise (a la), /. Surname given to dishes prepared in a simple, homely style. Braisd, /.. or Braised, e. A slow cooking process. Meat cooked in a closely- covered stewpan (braising-pan or braisiere) to prevent evaporation, so that the meat thus cooked retains not only its own juices, but also those of the articles added for flavouring. Brillat Savarin. Noted writer on culin- ary matters ; 1755-1826. Canape, /. Slices of bread or pastry cut into various sizes ; much used for hors-d’oeuvre and savoury dishes. Cannelons, /., or Canelons. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat, &c. Caramel, /. Burnt sugar. A substance made by boiling sugar to a light or dark brown, used for coating moulds, and as a liquid for colouring. Carbonade, /. Stewed or braised meat. Carmine. Crimson colouring used in confectionery, &c. Caviar, /. Caviare, e. The salted roe of sturgeon or sterlet (hsh eggs). Cervelle, /. Brain ; veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Charlotte, /. Name of a hot or cold sweet dish. A corruption of the Old English word Charlyt, which means a dish of custard. Chartreuse, /. A mixed preparation of vegetables, of meat, or of fruit, served as entree or entremets. Chaud-froid, /. Chicken, game, cutlets, &c., masked with cold sauce, and served cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly. Chef de Cuisine, /. Chief of the kitchen, head cook. Compote, /. Usually applied to a deli- cately prepared dish of stewed fruit, or fruits and jelly. The word is also used for certain poultry or game entrees. Condiments. Highly flavoured seasoning, spices, &c. Consomme, /. Clear rich gravy soup, e. The clarified liquor in which meat or poultry has been boiled, or the liquor from the stockpot clarified. Cordon Rouge. A gastronomic distinc- tion, granted by an English society to cooks. Cotelettes, /. Cutlets, e. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Also applied to thin slices of meat from other parts. Court-Bouillon, /. Name given to a rich fish-broth ; a highly seasoned fish-stock in which fish is boiled. Crecy, /. Dishes named “ a la Crecy ” generally contain carrots in the form of a puree. Crepes, /. French pancakes, e. Cretes, /. Giblets of poultry or game. Croissant, /. Half-moon-shaped fancy bread. Croquettes, Friandines, and Rissoles, /. Names of small light entrees (prepared with minced meat, &c.). The words usually signify something crisply fried. Croustades, /. Shapes of bread fried, or baked paste crusts, used for serving poultry or game, meat or minced fish in or upon. Croftte, /. Crust, e. A thick slice or block of bread, neatly shaped, and fried or baked a delicate brown, upon which entrees or birds are dished. Croutons, /. Thin slices of bread cut into small dice shapes and fried, used for garnishing soups. &c. Cuisine, /. Kitchen, cookery. Faire la cuisine, to cook or to dress victuals. Cuisse, /. Leg, e. Cuisse de volaille, leg of chicken or fowl. Culinaire, /. This is applied to anything in connection with the kitchen or the art of cooking. A good cook is called " un artiste culinaire.” Curry, from the Hindu word khura (palatable, eatable). Kari, /. An Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish or fowl ; a sharp spiced sauce. Dariole, /. Origin unknown. A kind of small pate, composed of forcemeat 01- mince baked or steamed in small moulds. Dejeuner, /. Breakfast ; the first meal of the day. Demi-deuil (en), /. White meats larded with truffles ; literally, “ half-mourn- ing.” Dessert, /. The remains of a meal. Now indicating fruits and sweetmeats served after dinner. The ancient105 5 GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. Greeks au{i Romans already knew 1 this course, as being the custom of prolonging banquets. | Dlable, /. Is applied to dishes with [ sharp and hot seasoning ; a la diable, [ devilled. \ Dinde, Dindon,/. Turkey, e. The word | “ dinde ” is abbreviated from “ poule d’lnde.” Durcelles, /., or Duxelles, /., is the name ! given to a mixture of chopped mush- rooms, shallots, parsley, tS:c., used for flavouring sauces, purees, &c, l^clair, /. . A French pastry filled with cream. Ecossaise (d 1’), /. Scotch style. ^mince, /. Finely sliced or shredded. Endive, /. and e. A species of the genus succory ; used as salads and some- times as vegetable. .\ native of China and Japan, but grown in Europe since the beginning of the sixteenth century. Entree, /. A course of dishes, or corner dish for the first course ; the conven- tional term for hot or cold side dishes. Also defined as dishes generally served with a sauce. Entremets, /. Dainty dishes of dressed vegetables, hot and cold sweets, and after-dinner savouries served as second course. Escalope, /. Thin round or oval-shaped fillets of veal called ‘‘collops.” Obso- lete, eascalope. Meaning thin slices of any kind of meat, usually egged, crumbed, and fried. Espagnole, /. A rich brown sauce ; the foundation of nearly all brown sauces, classified as the main grande sauce, or sauce mire. Fagot. small bunch of parsley and savoury herbs. .\ combination of culinary herbs. Fecule, /. very fine flour of rice or potato used for binding soups and sauces. Faire Revenir, /. A term often used in French cookery books ; its meaning is to partly fry, meat or vegetables being slightly browned without actu- ally cooking them. Filet, /. Fillet, e. The under cut of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, and pork. Also the boned breasts of poidtry, or game birds; the boned sides of fish are also called fillets. ; Flan, /. French custard tart ; open fruit tarts. Flavouring, e. Seasoning. Certain in- gredients, CD.nsisting principally of spices, herbs, and essences, used in cookery to impart taste and flavour to food in order to render it more ])ala table. Foie-gras, /. Fat goose liver. Fond, /. Strong gravy, meat stock, bottom, as in fonds d'aytichaut. Fondant, /. Melting, e. A kind of icing ; French dessert bon-bons. Fondue, /. A preparation of melted cheese, originally made in Switzer- land. A savoury. Forcemeat, e. From the French Farce, i.e. meat for stuffing. Frangaise (a la), /. French style, e. Applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as well as for those of the most elaborate finish. Frangipane. Confectioner’s cirstard. Frapp6, /. Iced (used when cooling champagne, sauces, and creams). Fricassee, /. Fricasseed, e. The w'ord is supposed to be a derivation from the English “ freak,” ” brisk,” “ dainty.” It is applied to a white stew of chicken or veal. Fritter, e. Beignets, /. Anything dipped in batter, or crumbed, egged, and fried. Fumet, /. Flavour or essence of game, fish, &c., used to impart a rich flavour to certain dishes Garnishing, e. Garniture, /. As a culin- ary term, it means to ilecorate a dish with edibles of ornamental appearance. Gateau, /. A round, flat cake, generally decorated. Essentially a rich cake : also frequently applied to open fruit tarts, cS:c. Gelatine. A manufactured article, used for giving solidity to liquids. (See also Isinglass.) Girofle, /. Clove, e. A very pungent, aromatic spice, vulgarly called ‘‘ clou de girofle,” because it has the form of a nail ; native of the island of Ternate. Glace, /. Frozen, iced, or masked. Glaze, e. Glace de viande, /. Stock or grav3' reduced to the thickness of jelly ; used for glazing meats, &c., to improve their appearance. Well- made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengthening soups and sauces. Gnocchi. A light, savoury dough, boiled and served with grated Parmesan cheese. Guava. A tropical fruit ; native of the East and West Indies. The preserves1056 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK. of this fruit are highly esteemed in this country. Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra, the young capsules of the okra plant, gumbo being the name by which okra is mostly known in South America. Chicken gumbo is a puree made from okra and chicken. Hache, /. Minced meat, finely sliced meat heated up in brown or white sauce. Hatelet, /. Small silver skewers, used for ornamenting fish and remove dishes. Hors-d’oeuvre, /. Appetisers. Small side dishes, dainty relishes, served cold, generally before the soup, in order to create appetite. Icing, e. Glasnre, /., or glace. A covering for cakes or pastry, made with fine sugar and white of egg, or sugar and water, flavoured and coloured to taste. Irlandaise (a 1’). /. Irish style ; applied to dishes containing potatoes in some form. Isinglass. Gelatine. The former is pre- pared from the sound, or swimming bladder, of the sturgeon and other similar fishes. Both isinglass and gelatine are used for giving firmness' to liquids, but cannot be regarded as an article of nourishment. Italienne (a 1’), /. Applied to dishes containing macaroni or similar paste, together with cheese and tomato. Joint, e. Releve, /. The grosse piece or piece de resistance of a dinner. On the Continent the joint is usually served after the fish, whilst in this country it is served after the entrees. Jugged. A brown stew, of hare or some kind of game. Kromeskis. Polish word ; same meaning as croquette in French. Krona pepper. A mild red pepper sea- soning of delicate aroma and coral-red colour, used for all kinds of savoury preparation. Lait, /. Milk, e. Au lait, prepared with milk, or in milk. Laitance, /. Soft roe of a fish. Larder or Piquer, /. To lard, e. A culinary term which means to insert with a larding pin (lardoire, /.) small strips of bacon (lardoon, /.) into a piece of meat, fish, poultry or game. “ Lemco.” The registered name of Liebig Co.’s Extract of Meat—a per- fectly prepared Beef Essence used to enrich soups, gravies, and sauces. Liaison, /. The mixture of yolk of eggs, cream, &c., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Lit, /. Thin slices of meat spread in layers for culinary purposes. Lunch, e. Dejeuner a la fourchette, /. A repast between breakfast and dmner. The word is derived from the Welsh llwne, lunching or hurrying. Robert Burns, in his Holy Fair, says, “ An’ cheese an’ bread, frae women’s laps, was dealt about in lunches.” Macedoine, /. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in various-shaped dice, &c. The name is also applied to a collection of ripe fruit set in jelly in a mould, or a fruit salad flavoured with liqueurs and syrup. Marinade, /. The brine in which fish or meat is soused or pickled, before cooking. Maitre d’Hotel (a la), /. Hotel steward’s fashion. Also the name of a flavour- ing butter, mixed with chopped par- sley and seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Served on grilled meats or fish. Maitre d’Hotel sauce is a white sauce with chopped parsley. Dishes thus generally signify quickly and plainly prepared food in which parsley is used as the principal flavouring. Marmite, /. The stock-pot. Matelote, /. A marine dish, usually prepared from fresh-water fish. Mayonnaise, /. A cold salad, sauce, or dressing. It is said to have been in- vented by the chef to the Due de Richelieu, after the victory of Mahon (Mahonnaise). Menu, /. The bill of fare. Literally the word means minute detail of courses. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Pronounce ‘‘menu ” “ mehneu,’’ so that the second syllable is sounded as something be- tween ‘‘ new ” and ‘‘ noo.” Meringue, /. Light baked froth shell shapes, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Meringue, /. Anything frosted or coated with meringue mixture baked long enough to set and colour. Mirepoix, /. Foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats. Mousse, /. A light ice-cream.1057 GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. Nougat, /. Almond rock or cand5^ A sweetmeat made with sugar, honey, almonds, pistachios, &c. Panade, /. or Panada. A culinary paste of flour and water, or soaked bread, used in the preparation of forcemeat and stufling. Panure, /., or Paner, to crumb. Signifies anything that is bread-crumbed. Panurette. Finely grated rusks, pre- pared a delicate red, used for crumb- ing and decorative purposes. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. A kind of sweet capsicum of a brilliant scarlet colour ; it is less pungent than Nepaul or Spanish pepper. Parmesan. Name of an Italian cheese, largely used for culinary purposes. Parson’s Nose. This name is given to the extreme end portion of the carcase of a fowl. Pate, /. A pie ; pastry ; a savoury meat pasty, or a raised pie. Pate de Foie-gras, /. A well-known delicacy prepared from the livers of fat geese. Alsace is the most celebrated country where the so-called terrines de foie-gras are made. This delicacy was first introduced by a cook named Close. Paupiettes, /. Slices of meat or fish rolled with forcemeat. Pimiento. Red Spanish pepper-pod. Piping, e. The process of decoration by means of icing for ornamenting cakes, pastry, and small goods. Piquante, /. Sharp of flavour, stimu- lating, pungent or sour. Pistaches, /. Pistachios, e. Kernels of the nut of a tree of the genus pistacia, used for flavouring and garnishing gelatines, sweets, &c. Potage, /. Soup, e. A nourishing broth or liquor, forming the first course of a dinner. Pot-au-feu, /., is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock. Potpourri. A stew of various kinds of meats and spices : a favourite dish in Spain. Potted. Fish or meat puree preserved in a pot. Poussin, /. Chic-chicken, or a baby chicken. Praiine, /. Flavoured with\burnt al- monds. Pre-Sale, /. Prime mutton (Scotch or Southdown mutton). Profitrolles, /. Very small fried choux- paste balls, generally used for garnish- ing soups, &c. Puree, / A smooth pulp ; mashed vege- tables ; thick soups. The name is also given to meat or fish which is cooked, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a sieve. Quenelles, /. Forcemeat or farce, com- posed of either fish, poultry or meat, eggs, &c., shaped in various forms—balls, ovals, &c. They are used as garnishing for soups or entrees, or are served separately as entrees. Ragout, /. A rich stew of meat, highly seasoned. Ramequin, /. Ramakin, e. A kind of cheese tartlet or ramakin. Rechauffe, /. To re-heat cold meat, &c. ; re-warmed. Releve, /. The remove, e. A course of a dinner, consisting of large joints of meat, four-footed game, and some- times joints of fish. Relish, e. Gout picj^uant, /. A pleasing taste ; to give an excellent flavour. Remouillage, /. Second stock. Remoulade, /. A cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs and mustard, used as salad dressing, &c. Renaissance, /. A word used for dishes of modern invention. Rissoles, /. A mixture of minced fish or meat enclosed in paste, half-moon shapes, and fried crisp in fat or butter. Roquefort, /. Rochefort, a highly es- teemed rich Fi'ench cheese. Roti, /. The roast, e., indicating the course of a meal which is served before the entremets. Roast meat, poultry, and game. Roux, /. A preparation of butter and flour, used for thickening soups ami sauces. There are three kinds of roux : white, fawn, and brown. Royal. Name of an egg custard used for garnishing clear soups. Also the name applied to an icing (glace royale) made with whites of eggs and icing sugar, and used for coating and decorative purposes. Sabayon, /. Sweet or pudding sauce, composed of cream or milk, sugar, white wine, and eggs. Saccharometer. An instrument to test degrees of sugar. Salmi, or Salmis. A compote of game set to finish cooking when half roasted. 3XTHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1058 Salpicon. A mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms ; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, &c. Salsify, c. Salsifit, /. Oyster plant, belonging to the same class as the chicory. Sauter (ee), /. To toss over the tire, in a saute- or frying-pan, in little butter or fat ; anything that requires a sharp fire and quick cooking. Sherbet. A cooling drink consisting of | water, lemon-juice, and sugar. The word ‘‘ Sorbet” is derived from sherbet. ! Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into 1 different forms, fried or toasted, served I as garnishes with meat entrees, or ! savoury dishes. j Socle, /. Base pedestal made of rice, bread, fat, sugar, &c., and used in cookery and confectionery. Sorbet, /. An iced Turkish drink ; also the name of a partly set water-ice, with fruit or liqueur flavour ; usually served in goblets. Soubise, /. A smooth onion pulp, served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787), who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field marshal during the reign of I.ouis XIV. of France. As a surname to dishes, a la soubise is generally applied when onions enter largely into the composition of the dish ; the term implies a strong onion flavour, or a garnish of onion puree. Souchet. Often used with jareli.x ‘‘ water,” as, water-souchet. Fish, cut in slices, boiled in salted water, and served with finely-shredded roots and herbs. Souffle, /. Literally, “ puffed up.” \ very light baked or steamed pudding, an omelette. Also applied to light, sweet or savoury creams. Souffle Glace, /. A very light, sweet cream mixture, iced and served in cases. Table d’Hote, /. The table at which the principal meals at an hotel or restaurant are served to guests ; com- mon table for guests ; an ordinary. Tailler la Soupe, /. A culinary expres- sion. Thin slices or crusts of bread placed in a soup-tureen are called tailler. ‘‘ Tremper la soupe ” is the French term applied when the broth is poured over the slices. Tamis, /. Tammy, e. Silk or woollen canvas cloth which is used for straining soups and sauces. Tartare, /. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, &c., served with fried fish or cold meats ; also a salad dressing. Tartine, /. Slice of bread. French name for sandwich. Timbale, /. Literally, " kettle-drum” ; a kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. Tomber a glace, /. To reduce a liquid until it has the appearance of a thick syrup. Tournedos, /. Small thin fillets of beef served as entrees. Trifles. A second-course sweet dish of sponge cakes, biscuits, jams, &c., flavoured with cream, custard, and liqueur. Tutti-Frutti. An Italian expression for various kinds of fruits or fruit ice. Vanille, /. Vanilla, e. A most delicate flavouring derived from the capsules of an orchidaceous plant, native of tropical America. Veloutee, /. Velvet-like, e. Name of a rich white sauce. Foundation sauce. Vol-au-vent, /. A light, round, puff- paste crust, filled with delicately flavoured ragouts of chicken, sweet- bread, &c. Zeste (Zest). Outer skin of the orange or lemon cut thinly or grated. Zwieback, g. Literally, twice-baked. Toasted bread or cake.lOSO c;enkral index. In order to make the Index as easy as possible for finding the required recipe of any dish quickly, all the recipes haveheen indexed under their French as well as their English designations. All other information in English. A BRICOTS (Ajiricots) a la Conde a la Creole . . a la reine beignets d’ . . dartois aux meringues pains d’, an marasejuin an riz meringue Suedoise d’ . . Talmouses a 1’ Adjuncts served with principal dishes, table of Admiral sauce Agneau (Lamb) ballotine d’ blanquette d’, a la Romaine brochettes d’, a la Turbigo carre d’, froid a la Bohemienne chartreuse d’, a la gastronome cotelettes {see Cot. d’agneau) epaule d’, a la Chevet a la Montmorency a la paysanne . . a la Polonaise . . epigrammes d’, a la Bearnaise a la Chartreuse a la Dauphine . . a la Macedoine a la Perigord . . a la Soubise filets d’, a la Spadacini a la venaison . . a la Villeroi langues d’, a la Duxelle musettes d’, a la Fraii9aise navarin d’, en casserole noisettes d’, a I’Union au chon a la pompadour oreilles d’ (see Or. d’agneau). poitrine d’, a la Turque . . farcie a la Soubise a la Very . . quartier d’, a la Flamande. . queues d', a la Russe ris d’(see Ris d’agneau) selle d’, a la Bretonne a la Duchesse . . a la Hollandaise -Aigrettes de fromage Airclles, gelee aux Aiguillettes de boeuf a la Brazza .Ailerons de volaille a la Creole de dinde braises au.x navets .Alcohol as fuel I'AGIS 749 749 749 766 941 792 749 749 749 941 40-3 164 599 396 396 396 397 397 397 397 397 7-25 397 397 397 394 394 397 397 397 601 394 394 395 539 39S 397 601 397 601 395 540 601 600 600 881 969 434 490 503 56 PACF Alkaline and acid salts, in stocks 95 Allspice (Piment) 114 ■Allumettes 891 d’anchois 871 de crabes aux pistaches 871 Almond (amande) cream, for filling 136 biscuits 956 cake . . 956 kisses 955 macaroons . . 951 paste 136-7 marzipan 9S« pudding, burnt 741 rings 952 souffle, burnt 744 sandwiches, frosted 941 tartlets 946 -Almonds, devilled 891 salted 891 to peel and pound . . 131 -Alouettes, petits pates aux 352 Aloyau de boeuf (see Sirloin of beef) 984 Amandes (almonds) biscuits aux 956 creme d’ 136 dattes aux . . 802 denises aux. . 941 a la diable . . 891 gateau d’ 956 meringues aux 936 pate ci’ 136 petits-fours d’ 956 sales (salted) 891 tartelettes au.x 9+6 -Amber, apple 752 banana 753 chestnut 753 -American drinks, &c. 979 sand cake . . 94 + sauce 164 tea punch 981 Ananas (Pineapple), beignets d’ 766 flan d , a la neige . . 755 glace a r 829 a I’.Alexandra 835 granite d’ . . a la Mascotte 755 meringue 790 parfait cl’, a la Tostini 755 salade d’, a I’lndienne 235 savarin a 1’ . . 7S6 sorbet d’ 848 Anchois (Anchovies) 238 a la Norvegienne 238 a la Am tel . . 866THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. io6o Anchois (Anchovies) allumettes d’ eclairs d’ oeufs brouilles aux pate brisee a 1’ petites goiidoles a 1’ et queues d’ecrevisse rosettes aux . Anchovy (Anchois) butte buttered eggs eclairs gondoles matches omelet paste crust rosettes savoury, baked sandwiches . . sauce . . Andouillettes a la Romaine de gibier en caisses Anna potatoes Angel cake Angelica (Angelique) Anguilles (Eels) a la Be a la Broche .. a la Durand . . a I’Espagnole a la Florimond a ritalienne . . a la Maconnaise a la Menagere a la Meuniere a I’Orly a la Pompadour a la Poulette a la Romaine a la Rouennaise a la Tartare . . a la Venitienne en aspic en caisses fritot d’, sauce remou glacee en matelote potage d’, a I'Allemande Appetissants, Maconnaise a la Suedoise ancaire ade PACE 871 866 683 136 866 238 239 174 683 866 866 871 679 136 239 866 922 141 354 354 530 649 945 120 298 298 298 297 298 298 298 298 298 298 298 298 298 298 298 298 332 298 297 298 297 221 229 229 7- Apricots (Abricots) Creole style . . frosted with rice sauce .. Aromatic herbs and plants spice (epice cnlinaire) Arrowroot gruel . . liaison Art of carving, the of cookery Artichauts (Artichokes) a I’Alice a la Barigonle a la Bordelaise a la Bruxelloise a la Chambery a la Florentine a ritalienne . . a la Lyonnaise a la Macedoine a la Moelle a la poivrade a la reine a la vinaigrette beignets d’ beignets d’, a la Viennoise creme d’ coeurs d’, Maraichere de Jerusalem a la Becham en surprise entiers a la chasseur fonds cl’ (artichoke bottom a I’Americaine a la Creole a la Monaco a la Mornay a la president a la proveu9ale a la reine en cocotte remoulade d’ rissolette d’ .. sautes.. souffles d’ a la Lyonnaise . . Artichokes (Artichauts) ..38,4 bottoms cold farced amber . . 752 fritters .. .. 381,619 French . . 751 globe, with fried onions 619 braised, buttered 749 hearts, braised 380 baked, Polish 751 Jerusalem (topinambours)Creole 622 charlotte 752 with Risotto 384 Conde style . . 751 rissolettes of .. 621 Duchess style 751 salad .. 700 fritters 765 sauce for 148 fried . . 750 souffles 380 jelly 918,969 Asparagus (Asperges) .. 37, 38, 41.43 Portuguese style 751 cooking of, how to prepare for 623 sauce .. 169 croquettes 625 snow . . 750 with melted butter . . 623 stew, moulded 750 Milanaise style 624 tart 822 moulded, cold 624 PAGE 37-8 749 749 749 171 117 114 918 106 983 13-6 622 619 622 622 618 622 622 619 253 619 619 622 253 381 619 207 380 622 726 618 253 622 379 620 620 621 622 621 620 622 380 623 42, 43 253 621 379io6i GENERAL INDEX. Asparagus (Asperges) Neva style omelet patties points, stewed rolls .. salad . . sandwiches sauce for soutfles, iced, with vinaigrette Asperges (Asparagus) a I’AUemande a la Bernoise a la Flamande a la Fribourg a la Flollandaise a I’huile a rindienne . . aritalienne .. a la Melba a la Milanaise a la Ni9oise .. a la Polonaise a la Vert-Pre a la vinaigrette an beurre fondn bouchees d’, a la princesse . . bouillon d’, en tasses en branches, a la Bechamel . . a la Colbert a la Piemontaise creme d’, printaniere croquettes d’ aux petits pois petits pains aux pointes d’, a rArgenteuil . . a la Royale a la Sevillienne. . consomme aux . . cents brouilles aux ragout aux salade d’, Americaine aux crevettes a la Neva sautees au beurre au veloutee . . Aspic, anguille en . . cream . . savouy jelly (gelee a I’aspic) 132 mayonnaise . . filets de sole en a la tomate . . Attereaux a I’imperiale . . Attriotes de volatile a la vaudoise Aubergines (Egg-plants and Vege- table Marrows) a ritalienne . . a la Lyonnaise a la proveii9ale a la i'urque anglaises (gourgeons) au gratin farcies frites .. aux ceufs poches sautees Aurora sauce PAGE 696 676 624 62s 62s 696 92 s 148 624 626 625 626 625 623 623 624 626 625 624 625 626 624 624 623 624 726 626 626 626 207 62 s 626 625 626 625 626 203 683 62s 23s 23s 696 626 626 332 142 , 537 142 327 142 882 496 42 628 628 628 628 627 627 628 626 628 141 PAGE Austrian pudding.. .. 728 Avoine, creme d’, x^otage.. 221 gABA a rOrieutale 821 au rhnm 757 Bacon (petit-lard) •• 34-5 salad .. 715 toast . . 898 and macaroni 897 Baignes de (raises. . 764 Baked Bacon and Eggs . . 897 cod a la Menagere .. 894 whiting 897 Baking hints 978 meat and birds, time-table 127-28 ovens . . 8s process 84-5 Bale Leckerlis 957 Ballons de fromage ■■ 883 de saumon fume 869 Ballotine d’agneau aux petits pois 599 de dinde 503 de x^erdreau, souvaroff •• 585 de pigeons a la tinan9iere 475 de volatile a la cardinal 491 Banana (Banane) amber 753 baked.. • • 770 bavarois de . . 772 beignets de . . 766 chartreuse de 776 cream.. ... 772 cream ice 831 farcies aux fraises 791 fritters 766 glace a la creme de . . 831 liqueur 980 pudding .. .. 728-9,823 ratafia 980 salad . . 714 salade de 714 shrub . . 981 sur croiites . . 887 stuffed, with strawberries 791 and walnut salad water . . 981 Barbel, in season . . 38 Barberries, in season 38 Barberry brandy . . 981 Barbue (brill) a la Madeleine 271 a la Russe 271 braisee a I’amiral 271 filets de, a la grand due 270 Barley, custard pudding. . 917 cream soup .. 912 digestion of . . 43 soiq), digestion of 43 Barquettes de concombre 232 Suedoise 243 Baroness Chartreuse 776 Basil 118 Bass, in season 38 Bath buns.. 935 Bateaux, petits, a repicurienne 859 Batons de caviar . . 858THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. io62 Batons a la Gruycre a la Riissc feuilletes a I’liomard Batter, pancake . . frying yeast .. Bavarois a la Nesselrode a la vanille . . an caramel . . an chocolat . . anx peches . . de bananes . . Bay-leaves (Laurier) Beans, baked broad . . butter., flageolet French, tossed in butter haricot scarlet runners soup . . Bear (Ours) Bearnaisc sauce .. Becasse (snipe), a la Careme braisees aux chonx . . capissantes de, anx trnffes farcies a la Stockholm rotie (roast) lilets de, a la Talleyrand anx huitres . . pate de, a I’anglaise aux trnffes, rissoles de Bechamel sauce .. ..107 239 868 13s 135 135 772 772 771 771 772 772 118 643 38.42 643 641 642 642 39 43 536 H3 517 517 517 .S18 613 316 614 518 36s 109, 142 27. 41.43 Beef (Been!) tea .. time for baking Beefsteak a I’anglaise a la Bardonx. . a la brisse a la Godard . . a la Soyer a la Snedoise .. a la turinoise. . en casserole .. sauce . . Beetroot (Betterave) cassolettes puree. . a rOrientale . . saute an beurre Bordelaise Beignets (Fritters) d’artichauts d’abricot d’ananas d’artichauts a la Viennoise de bananes . . de boeuf a la minute . . . de cerises Parisienne. . de cervelle de vean . . a la Gastronome a la gruyere . . a la Madras .. alaMilanaise. . a la Residence a la polonaise. . a la Torrijos . . a la Turque (de cervelle) a la Tyrolienne a la Venitienne boiled.. 596 choux-flenr .. 638 braised a la mode 596 de concombres 638 rump of .. 596 de crepes 768 croquettes 451 de crosnes 639 cutting up .. 26-8 de Raises 764 digestion of steak 43 de groseilles vertes . . 76s fillets of, with bananas 438 de gruyere a la Krona 668 braised .. 593 de hareng fume 895 chaud-froid 542 d’huitres 303 cold 541 Malakoff 891 grilled 916 an moka 766 larded 437 pied de vean . . 349 Henri IV. style . . 594 de pommes . . 765 Javanaise 542 de Reines-Claude 765 Louis XV. 594 de ris de vean en caisse 349 Metropole 595 de salsifis 661 Ravigote 542 souffles 891 Xeres 595 a la vanille 767 fritters 899 Strasbonrgeoise 872 frizzled on toast 904 de tomates .. 662 galantine of 543 de volaille 349 hash, bourgeoise style 449 Belgian salad 696 minced, and macaroni 902 Berlin pudding . . 730 marrow sauce 168 Berlinois (dough-nuts) 957 olives' . . 420, 445 Betteraves (beetroot) bordelaise 628 pickle for 130 cassolettes de.. 230 pressed 543 a rOrientale . . 889 sandwiches, raw 915 puree de 207 sirloin of, Godard style 592 sautees an beurre 628 stew, Hungarian 444 Beurre (Butter) a la Diable 175 PAGE 218, 9T0 127 449 449 450 450 450 450 450 448 164 230 207 889 628 381 766 766 619 766 450 76s 349 375 878 871 767 872 767 766 404 7671063 GENERAL INDEX. Beurre (Butter) a la Madras d aiichois d’ccrevisses . . Espaguol fondu, salsifis au de liomard (lobster) . . au jambon (ham) maitre d’hotel Montpellier . . de raifort (horse-radish) ravigote de ruisseau (watercress) au cafe (moka) au tomate au trufie Beurrecks a la Turquc .. Birds, how to pick or pluck time-table for roasting 12 Birds’ nests with ice Biscotins au fromage aux peches Biscuits a I’Africaine aux amandes. . bonne-bouche de Bordeaux . . brandy (Cognac) au citron (lemon) cocoanut a la cuillere . . d’epernay de fromage a la. creme glace aux fraiscs glaces a la Turque . . a la tomate Marzipan Milanese, dessert opera . . parfaits de, en gelee. . au parmesan . . rice routes a la Suisse Shrewsbury .. French tea . . water . . Bisque de crevettes, potage d’ecrevisse de homard mariniere Parisienne aux huitres .. de petoncles soups, preparation of Blackberries, in season . . Blackcock, in season Black butter sauce coffee .. Blancmange, cornflour . . Blanchailles (whitebait) . . Blanch rice, to sweetbread, to vegetal)les, to Blanquette d'agneau a la Komaine de dinde aux morilles de veau de volaille en demi-deuil Ble vert (green corn), timbales de 377 Blinis, caviar au . . 239 Bloater fritters 895 Boar’s head (hure de Sanglier) . . 544 sauce . . 167 Boeuf (Beef) .. .. 25-6, 434-55 a la bernoise . . 597 a la bourgeoise 449 a la Celestine.. 597 a rindienne . . 448 a la jardiniere 597 a la Lorraine. . 597 a la Palermo . . 597 a la Piemontaisc 597 aiguillettes de, a la Brazza . . 434 aloyau de, a la Flamande . . 596 a la Godard 592 a la Nivernaise .. 596 braise 596 beignets de, a la minute 450 bouilli a I’anglaise . . 596 a la fraii9aise. . 597 a la Russe 597 braise, a la mode 596 cervelle de frite 450 au gratin 450 cervelle de, on matelote 450 cote de braisee 597 a la Normande . . 597 a la St. Hubert . . 597 croquettes do. . 451 culottes de, Maintenon entrecotes de (see Entrecotes 451 de) 451 filets de, a I’ancienne 597 a I’Andalouse . . 45t a I’Athenienne . . 434 a la bearnaise . . 451 a la bordelaise . . 451 a la braban9onne 597 a la Brillat-Savarin 593 a la Chateaubriand 436 a la Clairemont. . 597 a la Claremont . . 452 a la Colbert 436 a la Conflans 452 a la Cj-rano 593 a la dauphine . . 452 a la financiere . . 452 a la Garfield 452 a la Garibaldi . . 437 a la Henri IV. . . 594 a la Javanaise . . 542 a la Louis XV. . . 594 a la Madrid 541 a la maitre d’hdtel 452 a la Malaga 452 a la marinade . . 452 a la metropole . . . . 595 a la Mirabeau . . 452 a la Moscovite . . 452 a la palermitaine 452 a la Palestine . . 597 a la Parisienne . . 597 AGE 175 174 175 175 061 17s 17s 175 175 176 176 176 13d 176 177 892 126 7-28 847 877 801 953 956 954 949 953 951 953 954 937 880 «3 5 836 889 958 949 953 81S 890 9 SO 933 951 934 953 22s 205 205 205 206 206 lOI 3^ 38 142 96 s 823 302 129 423 129 39b 504 410 502XHE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1064 PAGE Boeuf (Beef) a la Paysanne 597 a la polonaise . . 452 a la provengale. . 452 a la Quirinal 440 a la Ravigote . . 542 a la Richelieu . . 597 a la Royale 452 a la Sicilienne . . 453 a la Sigurd 453 a la Strasbourgeoise . . 598 a la Therapia . . 453 a la toreador . . 453 a la toscane 598 a la Viennoise . . 438 a la Wellington . . 453 a la Xeres . . 595 au beurre d’a'nchois 451 aux bananes 438 aux champignons 452 aux fines herbes 452 aux olives farcies 452 aux truffes 453 coeurs de, a la Careme . . 436 a la Rossini 441 en chevreuil 597 piques a la Reyniere . . 437 galantine de .. 543 gullasch de . . 444 hachis de, a la bourgeoise . . *449 mignons de(seeMignons de Bmuf) 439 moelle de, consomme 203 noix de, a la bourgeoise 453 olives de 445 jralais de (ox-palate), a I’Orly 453 grille 453 paupiettes de, a la Richelieu 454 piece de, braisee a la vert-pre 596 potage de, cxueues de 221 presse (pressed) queues de (ox-tail), a I’Alsa- 543 cienne. . 446 braisees a la Polonaise. . 446 saute de, a la Flamande 450 a la Zeppelin tournedos de, a I’Aixoise 449 442 a ITmperatrice .. 442 a la Madeleine .. 442 a la Seymour . . 442 a la Gabrielle 454 a la Moscovienne 443 a la Napoleon . . 443 (See also Tournedos).. 454-56 Bohemian sauce . . 164 Boiling fish, hint on 978 meat, art of . . '25 Boiled beef or mutton . . 596 milk for coffee 965 rice 976 milk .. 978 process 76-79 vegetables, hints on . . 128 versus simmering 78 Bologna sausage . . 228 Bombe glacee a la Sicilienne 836 Bombe (glacee) a la Venitienne . au chocolat Bombes (petites) a I’Alsacieime . a la Milanaise . . a la Victoria rustique a la modsrne Venitienne or venetia cle fraises a la Macaire de volaille a la Trianon a la Victoria Bon-bons, dipped. . and sweetmeats Bones, use of, in stocks . . Boiling poultry or game . . Bonnes-bouches (Savouries) a la President a la Riviera . . a la Washington aux huitres . . de ci'evettes a I’Avondale . de ris d'agneau de sardines . . Bordeaux pigeons . . Bordelaise sauce . . Border (Bordure), chestnut fig, with cream hare, hot cold lobster, cold . . pears . . pheasant potato, fried . . prune, with cream . . rice, with prunes strawberry walnut and celery . . Bordure Priucesse de Galles de faisan a la chasseur de figues a la creme . . de turbot a la Mont-Blauc . aux fraises a la Madrid de fruits a la nationale de homard, froid a ITndienne japonaise a la gelee . . de lievre rautrichienne a la Bergere de marrons a la Chantilly . de noix et celeri a la Monaco Pierre le Grand de poires a la reine . . de pommes de terre . . de prunes a la creme. . de riz aux prunes Savarin Saxonnaise a la Kohler de turbot a la careme Bortsch polonaise Bottled mushrooms Bouchees a I’Astrachan .. a la Caroline . . a la moderne . . a la Montglas.. a la Perigord , . I'AGE 836 836 574 349 569 847 836 790 568 569 962 959 95 127 854 863 866 759 857 230 540 230 39 143 774 773 532-3 587 316 748 507 638 775 774 804 389 773 507 77.3 329 804 756 316 315 775 532 587 774 389 776 748 658 775 774 756 756 265 219 975 350 878 351 350 8921065 GENERAL INDEX. I'AGE Bouchees a la Priiicesse .. .. 351 a la Suecloise . . . . . . 351 a la Toulouse. . .. .. 3 51 au caviar .. .. .. 858 d'asperges a la Princesse . . 624 Monseigneur . . . . . . 892 Victoria . . . . . . 892 petites (see Petites bouchees) 3 50 aux luuti'es . . . . . . 306 de volaille a I’Andalouse . . 567 Boudins de foie-gras a la Parisienne 472 de gibier a la Perigueux .. 351 de lievre a la Richelieu . . 352 de sanglier . . . . . . 352 de veau .. . . .. 352 de volaille blanc .. .. 351 a la reine . . . . 351 a la Richelieu .. .. 352 Boules au parmesan . . . . 880 Bouillabaisse .. .. .. 255 Bouillon (Broth) Alsacienne . . 200 ancienne . . . . . . 200 bonne femme . . . . 200 court . . . . . . . . 255 Ecossaise . . . . . . 200 egg 911 Henri IV. . . . . . . 200 Hotcliepot . . . . . . 200 IVIarinite . . . . . . 200 Parisienne . . . . . . 200 d’asperges cn tasses. . . . 726 de bceuf . . . . . . 200 aux oeufs . . . . 180, 200 en tasses .. .. .. 179 de volaille a I’orge .. .. 187 Bouquetgarni .. .. 117, 122 Brains (cervelles) calf’s .. .. 413 in rice croiite . . . . 413 fritters . . . . . . 899 omelet . . . . . . 679 scrambled . . . . .. 901 sheep’s . . . . . . 404 (5ec rt/so Cervelles) .. .. 413 Braising process . . . . . . 86-7 Braised artichoke hearts .. . . 380 beef a la mode .. . . 596 fillet of . . . . . . 593 rump of . . . . . . 596 duck, with olives . . . . 464 with turnips .. .. 611 with vegetables .. 465 rolled 466 wild 527 duckling . . . . . . 467-8 goose, with celery sauce . . 471 hai'e, fillets of. . . . . . 532 stuffed . . . . . . 616 ham, with champagne .. 605 lambs’ tongues . . . . 903 shoulder.. .. .. 599 lettuces . . . . . . 644 mutton, neck of . . . . 598 . leg of 598 onions, Spanish . . . . 648 Braised ox-tongue partridge pheasant cpiails.. snipe . . spinach tripe, stuffed veal, breast of cushion of Brandy biscuits . . cocktail mint julep sauce .. snaps or wafers Brawn (breakfast) Breadcrumbs, fried for roast birds ^ Bread and flour as food and milk digestion of . . pulled.. panade (for farces) for thickening sauces pudding, brown sauce . . toasted Brandade de morue au.x olives Breakfast and supper dishes Bretzels (tea) Brill (Barbue) braised fillets of Brillat-Savarin fondu Brine for beef or pork Brioches Parisiennes paste . . a la Rochefort Brisotins de veau a la boiupietiere Brissolettes de caviar Broad beans (Feves de Marais) Broccoli, in season Brocket (Pike) a I’ancienne a la Castelaine a la Cavour . . a la Remoulade pique, filet de, a la Colbert filets de, a la Lyonnaise Brochettes d’agneau a la Turbigo eperlans en .. de foie de volaille huitres en Broiling or grilling process Broths, Consommes, or clear soups Broth, beef, with eggs chicken in cups with barley- clear, chicken mutton oyster. . preparation of Scotch veal Brown fish sauce , . Brunoise . . 447 524 507-8 518 D7 3S1 449 602 601 9.13 982 982 170 957 906 615 615 20 919 43 970 177 977 737 >43 975 273 894-909 944 271 271 130 929 137 873 410 242 379 38 271 271 272 272 272 272 392 299 892 893 88-9 99 180 911 179 187 185 220 911 99 201 144 144 325THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. io66 Brunswick sausage Brussels sprouts . . Bruyere, coq de, rotic Biiche de Noel en surprise de tomates a la Rossini Buisson de truffes a la Royale Bullaces, in season Burgundy sauce . . Burnet Butter (Beurre) cassolettes compound or flavouring anchovy crayfish or shrimp . . chutney coffee . . devilled digestion of . . green herb ham . . horse-radish . . lobster Montpellier- . . paprika parsley pimiento sauces Spanish tomato truffle watercress and cream liaison .. to clarify for hors-d’oeuvre keeping of kneaded Scotch Buying for large establishments Byron sauce r ABB AGE (Chou) digestion of .. how to buy . . rolls, braised . . au gratin stuffed red, with bacon salad Cabillaud (Cod) a la Dieppoise a la Maltaise .. a la Portugaise a la proven9ale darne de, a la Sefton frit a rindienne grille a la Colbert . . laitance de croutes de mousseline de recrepi bouilli Cabinet pudding . . Cafe (Coffee) beurre au . . a la Turque . . au lait frappe a la Viennoise Genoise au . . glace a la Neige I'AGK 228 ^37 613 820 888 667 38 164 I 17 867 174-77 174 175 175 139 175 43 176 17s 176 175 175 176 175 176 12, 164 17s 176 177 176 los T29 227 978 227 962 23-4 164 37.43 43 37 371 379 79.636 63s 714 273 ! 272 273 273 333 272 273 860 272 273 729 139 966 963 853 936 852 Cafe (Coffee) noir Cailles (Quails) a la Diane a la Georges Sand a rindienne . . a la jardiniere a la mirepoix a la Moliere . . a la Piemontaise a la regence . . a la Tosca en caisses a I’aspic .. en casserole . . chaud-froid de, a la Victoria chartreuse de, en surprise a la Reine Eugenie . . en chemise en compote .. escalopes de, a la Princesse. croustades de, Champenoise darioles de, a la Rossini Demidoff farcies en caisses aux petits pois 580 aux nouillettes . . 521 en feuilletage 521 au nid 523 en papillotes . . 522 petits pates aux 352 pains de 361 poelees a la Parisienne 521 ponding de, a I’Anglaise 523 ris de veau, pate de, Moscov ;c 522 roties a la St. Antoine 613 965 523 523 518 523 523 518 523 523 519 522 580 523 579 582 582 523 523 520 523 722 523 615 520 523 SI9 S8i en robe de chambre souffles de, a la Marechale sous la cendre supreme de, a la Lucullus timbale de, en gelee Ca sses d’ecrevisses a la mayonnaise 243 caisses (Petites) (cases, silver, china or paper) a la Cazanova .. a la marquise de champignons farcis de foie-gras aux truffes de Moelle de ris de veau Cakes (Gateaux) afternoon tea American sand angel . . Bavarian apjile cheese chess . . chocolate cocoanut Dundee French, Easte fried hominy Genoa Genoise ginger gingerbread hot breakfast lemon 352 251 244 352 352 352 352 934 944 945 810 948 931 813 930 929 940 673 929 936 949 949 908 950GENERAL INDEX. JUO7 Cakes (Gateaux) log Madeira orange Portuguese . . Queen rice raspberry Regent Russian ... rock . . Savoy.. seed . . serena snow . . soda .. sponge strawberry, iced walnut wedding Cake-cream filling Calender of food in season Calf’s brains (cervelles de veau) feet (pieds de veau), fried head, turtle style salad . . liver {see Foie de veau) tongues Camembert frit . . petits flans au roulettes de . . Canadian curlers .. Canapes a I’arlequin a I’Arlesienne caviar sur de caviare a la Capuciue a la Coquelin a la Cocqueri a la creme de laitances a la Darvelle . . a la Diana a la Genevoise alajamaique a la Madras . . a la Norfolk . . a la Reform . . a la Romanoff a la Selon a la Turbigo . . a la Turque . . a la Windsor . . de foie-gras a la Russe de harengs a la Russe Hambourgeoise Hollandaise . . huitres sur Ivanhoe Julie . . Nantua aux CEufs farcis aux olives farcies de sardines a la Soubise ' a la frangaise . . Canard (Duck) a I’Americaine a la bourgeoise 928 929 932 940 940 930 807 810 942 930 808, 931 932 930 937 932 937 808 930 928 137 38-9 413 421 431 706 418 003 887 893 887 944 24s 892 240 241 245 892 892 245 245 864 892 892 86s 246 246 246 246 245 24s 245 892 857 892 892 892 248 864 865 245 470 470 Canard (Duck) a I’lrlandaise a I’ltalienne . . a la Nivelle . . a la Nivernaise a la presse a la Portugaise a la provengale a la reforme . . a la Rouennaise a la Sainte-Mande .. a la Valencienne a la verj us braise a la frangaise . . aux navets a la paysanne . . en chemise croustade de, a la Chartraine darioles de, a la St. Germain filets de, a la Castillane grille a la frangaise .. aux olives farcis potage puree de roti a I’orange quenelles de, au.x petits pois salad de salmi de a la Mpntreuil . . saute au pecheur supreme a la Marquise sauvage (wild duck). . a I’Americaine . . a la chasseur . a la Nemrode .. filets de, au.x truffes . . zephires de, a la metro- pole Canary cream Candy, fruit popcorn sugar . . walnut molasses Canetons (Ducklings) a la bigarade a la bohemienne a la Cambaceres a la crapaudine a la duclair a la Javanaise a la Lambert a la Rouennaise . . . . a la Sainte-Mande . . a la Vitellus .. braise a la Bourgogne filets de, a la Baloise a la Lorraine . . a la Madrid farcis a la Legumiere . . mousselines de, a la Moresco mousse de, a la Tivollier . . roti salmis de, a la Vincent Cannelons . . aux champignons a la puree de gibier . . h'Aor 471 471 471 471 471 465 471 471 471 470 470 470 471 465 465 466 471 470 463 466 464 471 222 61 I 469 696 464 465 471 467 36 528 529 527 529 528 824 963 961 963 963 469 466 468 468 470 .S78 578 61 I 471 468 467 577 578 463 576 578 611 471 352 352 352THE\ NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. io68 PAGE Cannelons aux truffes 352 de volaille 352 petits, au Florador .. 671 aux Saucisses 352 Canolettes a la Montglas 353 Cantaloupe au marasquin 234 Capercalzie or capercailzie 615 Capissantes de becassines aux truffes 517 1 Capon (Chapon) accompaniments for 42 ( to carve 990 fillets, chaud-froid of 557 roast . . 612 time for baking 127 Caper sauce 164 Capsicums 118 Caramel (liquid) . . 129, 960 bavarois au^. . 771 glace au 831 sauce .. 172 Caramels, chocolate cream 961 walnut 962 Carbohydrates, composition of 18 Carbonade a la Flamande 450 de mouton a la chartreuse 406 a la Nantaise 398 de pore a la fraii9aise 459 Cardinal punch Cardons (cardoons) 851 42 a I’Espagnole 628 a la Moelle 628 au jus 628 en croutons a la veloutee 628 salad de 697 sauce a la creme 628 Garottes (Carrots).. a I’Andalouse 119 630 a la Bechamel 630 a la Berlinoise 629 a la Bourgeoise 630 a la Bruxelloise 629 a la creme 630 a I’Espagnole. . 630 a la favorite . . 376 a la Lilloise . . 630 a la niaitre d’hotel . . 631 a la poulette . . 631 a la Vichy 631 compote de .. 631 farcies 630 aux epinards 629 nouvelles a la Flamande 630 au saumon fume 631 souffles aux . . 630 Carp, in season 38 Carre d’agneau bohemienne 600 de mouton braise aux nouilles 598 de pore a I’lndienne a la Nivernaise . . 459 459 braise 607 sauce piquante 459 de sanglier a la Russe 536 de veau garni 602 Carrelet frit, sauce persil 314 Careme, jambon de 816 Carrots (Garottes), Berlin style Brussels style new, Flemish style .. pudding souffles stuffed, with spinach young, favourite style Carvfng, the art of To carve, beef, sirloin of calf’s head chicken, capon or poulard' duck fish fowl goose grouse,partridge,plove ham mutton, leg of .. saddle of .. shoulder of ox-tongue pork, leg or loin rabbit or hare . . steak veal, loin of neck of venison, haunch of Casserole de mouton a I’anglaise Cassolettes a I’epicurienne a la Medicis .. a la Parmentier a la Perigourdine a la Princesse Alice . a la Richelieu de betterave de celeri, a la Napolitaine d’ecrevisses Richelieu de gibier huitres en paste . . d’Issigny de venaison de volaille a la perigueux Cats’ tongues (dessert biscuits) Cauliflower (choux-fleur) fritte an gratin hors d’cEuvres Caviar (Caviare) a I’Allemande a I’Andalouse a la Creole a la Dauphine a la diable a la Russe batons de en Belle-vue . . de Biluga glace au blinis bouchees au . . brissolettes de ... canapes de, a la Capucine sur canapes . . sur croutes . . crepes au Duchesses au. . 629 629 630 731 630 629 376 983 984 987 e 990 988 984 990 989 &c. 991 985 986 986 98 s 987 984 985 987 984 984 986 406 244 355 6S1 356 355 356 230 377 867 355 893 136 867 356 356 938 638 637 236 240 858 242 240 859 239 858 241 240 239 858 242 241 240 858 859 240GENERAL INDEX. 1069 Caviar (Caviare) aux ecrevisses as hors d’ceuvres palmettes de.. petites croiites de en salade salade de tartelettes aux huitres et tartines de, en chaud-froid tranches de, a la remoulade Caviare (Caviar) boats, small devilled in ice-shape . . pancakes patties with prawns . . reinonlade style rolls . . salad .. sandwiches . . slices . . on toast Cayenne pepper .. Cazanova salad Celeri (Celery) a I’anglaise a la Bechamel a la demi-glace a I’Espagnole. . a la fermiere . . a la Genevoise a la Grecque . . a I’ltalienne . . a la Paysanne a la Rivaz a la veloutee. . a la Villeroi . . a la Waldorf . . cassolettes de, Napolitaine. creme de .. .. 147 cremes de, glacees . . frit a la tomate puree de, anx croutons an jus. . puree de, aux croutons raves a la Tyrolienue souffles de et noix, bordure de, a la Monaco mayonnaise de . . Celeriac, in season a la Bechamel a la creme a I’Espagnole a la Joinville a la Norge Celery (Celeri) .. . . 37-8, creams, iced . . and macaroni and cucumber salad . . souffles stewed in brown sauce . . Celestines de perdreaux . . Cendrillons de sole, Parisienne Cepes a la bordelaise farcis au jus . . Cepes marines PAGE 2,34 Cerf (deer), Jllet de, picpie a la diable S3S cimier de, sauce picjuante 608 Cerises (Cherries) l)eignets Parisienne 763 Charlotte de . , yC-.O croc|uettes dc 7l’3 potage aux . . 222 ponding aux .. 730 rissoles de 763 salade de 717 Cervelles (Brains) a la Dreiix 404 , a la maitre d’hotel . . 404 a la Rosita . . 404 au beurre noir 404 beignets de, a la Turque 404 en coquilles .. 404 frites .. 404, 450 au gratin 450 de boeuf, en matelote 450 en matelote .. 404 omelette, a la . . 679 de pore, a la demi-glace 459 a ritalienne 459 de veau, a la Milanaise 413 a la poulette . . 413 au beurre noir 413 beignets de . . 349 coquilles de . . 354 Chafing-dish cookery 93 Chalet rustique a la Chantilly 821 Champagne, granite 852 jelly 783 sauce . . 145 Champignons (Mushrooms)— a la Bechamel 632 a la bordelaise 634 a la diable 633 a la gourmet. . 634 a la Montglas. . 633 a la Piemontaise 634 a la proven9ale 375 a la Richemont 634 1 au beurre 634 casse-tout 634 cannelons aux 352 coquilles de .. 354 croutes aux (sweet dish) 938 farcis . . 633 a la Napolitaine 635 petites caisses de 352 aux fines herbes 634 1 frais sautes . . 633 1 au gratin 634 1 ragoiitMe 375 sous cloche . . 889 toniates aux . . 662 Chantrelles en salade * . 237 Chapon (Capon) a la Bourgeoise.. 479 a la Cavour . . 479 ■ a la Chanceliere 479 a la Perigueux 480 ' a la Piemontaise 480 j braise a I’estragon . . 479 1 a la Garfield 479 PAGE 241 239 860 '239 242 698 228 249 241 859 859 240 839 858 24T 241 718 698 922 8S8 858 116 714 631 632 631 632 632 632 235 632 632 235 632 632 236 377 , 208 889 632 032 632 632 376 631 389 '38 632 235 632 632 235 42-3 889 377 698 631 631 631 524 278 634 634THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. joyo PAGE PAGE Chapon (Capon) braise a la St. Chateaubriand a la Marseillaise .. 451 Cloud .. 480 a la Rosny . . 451 en Belle-Vue.. SS7 a la Veron . . 451 au gros sel 479 Chaud-froid dishes 538 (In mans a la Marechale 480 de cailles a la Victoria 579 mousselines de, en caisses 562 de cotelettes d’agneau 539 mousse de, a la Belle Helene 565 filets mignons en 542 saute a la fraii9aise .. 479 filets de poularde ambassadrice 558 en su])reme . . 480 de sole a la Capucine . . 327 quenelles de, a la Vatel 480 de foie-gras en caisses 571 timbales de, a la princesse 480 de homard a la diplomate .. 317 Charcoal as fuel . . 54 d’huitres 232 Charlotte, apple .. 752 a la Montpellier 332 cherry 760 CEufs en 68 s Dutch.. 793 de perdreaux. . 58s gooseberry 792 .sauce (sweet) .. )73 grape . . ' .. 777 tartines de caviar en 249 pistachio 793 truite saumonee en . . 323 jiineapple. 794 de volaille a la Cedard 557 Russian 794 a la Norvegienne 563 strawberry 792 Cheese (Fromage) aigrettes 881 Swiss . . 795 balls 883 wafer . . 793 batons, Swiss.. 880 a la Fougere . . 792 biscotins 877 a rimperiale 760 biscuits 890 a la St. Jose . . 794 with cream 880 a la Suisse 795 cakes . . . . . . ,. 948 de cerises 760 ' to choose 37 aux fraises . . 792 cigars . . S92 de gaufrettes. . 793 cones .. 887 glacee a la Creole 84s cream sandwiches 923 Florentine 845 creams, cold . . 886 de poires a I’lmperiale 845 fried 886 a la princesse 844 timbales.. 886 de groseilles vertes . . 792 ] croutes 878 Hollandaise . . 793 cubes on skewers 882 de pommes . . 752 fritters .. .. 668,878,891 Russe aux pistaches 793 gondolas 881 a la plombieres. . 794 gooseberry 823 Chartreuse de bananes . . 776 grated in onion sauce 977 a la baronne . . 776 i omelet 680 de cailles a la Reine pearls, Swiss . . 88s Eugenie 582 1 pie, baked 908 en surprise 582 quenelles 880 d’Eperlans a la St. Mande 300 remnants of . . 977 de faisan a la Balmoral 581 roulettes 887 de filets de sole 279 1 sandwiches .. 923 filets de veau a la Crecy 546 souffles, baked 884 aux fraises 777 1 straws. . 881 legumes a la Quirinal 374 Yarmouth 881 moderne a I’Edouard VIE 590 wafers. . 883 de perdreaux. . 527 Cherry charlotte .. 760 de pigeons a la Rouennaise 475 croquettes 763 de pommes a la princesse 777 pudding 730 de raisins 777 rissoles 763 Chasseur, salade .. 714 salad . . 717 sandwiches . . 926 1 soup . . 222 Chateaubriand a la Bearnaise 450 tapioca 823 a la chipolata 450 [ Cherries (cerises) . . 37-8 a la cordon rouge 450 1 Chervil (cerfeuil) . . 117 a la Grecque .. 450 Chess cakes 931 a la hoteliere.. 450 , Chestnut (Marron) amber 753 a la Lombarde 450 chocolate 955 a la marquise. . 450 cream . . 772GENERAL INDEX. Chestnut (Marron) pudding 733, 734 puree . . . . . . 21 r, 426 garnish . . . . . . 426 glazed. . . . . . . . 954 souffle.. .. .. .. 745 stewed . . . . . . 644 stuffing . . . . . . 972 and truffle stuffing . . . . 972 Chevreuil (Venison), Saint Hubert 535 cotelettes de, a la Turque . . 535 cuissot de, sauce Groseilles . . 607 escalopes de, a la chasseur . . 535 fricandeau de, a la broche . . 608 gigot de, a la creme aigre . . fioX longe de, a la puree de toinate 5 3 5 .salmi de, a la sultane .. 535 selle de, aux tomates . . 608 tournedos de, a la Milanaise 535 Chicken (sec also Volaille, Poulet) 42-3 ballotine of . . . . . . 491 breasts and wings . . . . 490 bombs, Victoria style . . 569 bouchees . . .. .. 567 broth . . .. . . . . 91 [ clear (consomme) to carve cassolettes of. . casserole chaud-froid of cream, with asparagus tongue tomatoes tomato-shaped croquettes liver croutes cup, with egg. . curried cutlets (cold). . in aspic . . devilled Duchess style essence farce , . fillets, Cecil style Helder style fried turban of with oysters forcemeat ’ . . fricassee of . , fried . , fritters galantine grilled. . Hungarian style kromeskis legs . . and liver souffles mayonnaise of medallions patties pillau .. (pienelles ri.ssoles 990 .156 480-1 59. 563 96, '^69 58. ^65 562 564 914 862 912 493 569 561 905 481 140 178 493 491 483 490 915 178 482 483-4 349 S.i6 488 482 357 493 492 564 561 350 497 484 001 Chicken, roast, Frendi style salad . . . . . . 712, sandwiches . . sonflle.. in cases . . light with cooked chicken soup, brown . . spatchcock . . and lamb’s bread stew supreme and veal timbale how to truss . . Chic-chickens (poussins) fried . . Hamburg style roast . . Chicoree (Endive), creme de, veloute au gratin salacte de au lard . . Ching-Ching Chip potatoes Chocolat (Chocolate), Bavarois au bombe glacee au (ice) Eclairs gateau au . . . . . . how to make . . icing . . macaroons marrons (chestnuts). . mould. . omelette, soufflee au ponding au . . meringue sauce . . souffle, praline au . . tartelettes au. . Chop, grilled mutton lamb . . steamed Chopped mushrooms onions. . parsley Chou - de - mer (sea - kale) a la creme a la Florentine a la Hollandaise glace a la creme Chou-rouge (red cabbage) au lard salade Choux (cabbage) au gratin farcis a I’Espagnole. . a la Lilloise . . a la Lorraine . . Choux de Bruxelles, puree de sautees au beurre farcis au beurre consomme aux . . paste .. Chou-fleur (cauliflower)— a la creme de moutarde a la polonaise, . 609 9- 495 495 495 495 214 905 494 494 560 126 489 489 610 20S 63 s 69s C98 982 649 771 836 943 813 813 936 967 L39 951 955 824 762 730 731 171 797 945 915 916 916 63 s 636 636 636 635 714 379 379 636 371 208 637 636 236 63 81072 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Choii-fleur (cauliflower) beignets de PAGE 638 Cod (Cabillaud) grilled, Colbert PAGE au gratiii 637 style 273 puree de 209 roe croutes (see laitauce) 860 Choiix-raves (kohl-rabis) a la creme 635 1 Coeurs d’artichauts Maraichere . . 380 a la menagere . . 635 de filets de boeuf a la careme 436 Chowder . . 973 a la Rossini 441 Christmas pudding 736 Coffee (Cafe) 37 Chutney butter ‘75 [ boiled milk for 965 Cimier de cerf, sauce piquante 608 butter 139 Cinnamon (cannelle) 115 custard for eclairs 943 pudding 729 filtered or percolated 966 Civet de lievre a la bordelaise 531 fritters 766 a la Finnoise . . 535 how to choose 37 Clarence tartlets . . 947 how to make 964 Claret jelly 783 icing 138 sauce .. 172 sauce ,. 172 Clarification of stock 100 180 Turkish 966 Clarifying, ingredients for 100 Viennese 965 Clarify, how to, butter . . 129 water for coffee-making 965 fat 129 with chicory .. 965 stock . . 180 Coke as fuel 54 Cleaning meat for cooking 125 Colcannon .. 637 Clear soups (consommes) 99 Cold Entrees S37 Clear Soup (Consomme), Bavarian 200 Cold meat, how to warm up 125 Careme style. . 184 kedgeree of . . 902 with custard cubes . . 185 Cold sauces I lO-II chicken quenelles 187 Collard head 34 choux-paste fritters 186 Collops, Scotch 904 prunes . . 185 Compote, apple 795 chicken 187 fruit . . 795 iced 187 peach 795 game .. 189 de carottes 631 maigre 202 de fruits a la Chantilly 795 ox-tail 203 de peches 795 turtle.. 198 en surprise de pigeons a I’Americaine . . 840 mock 204 475 Cloves (girofles) . . 114 a la bourgeoise .. 476 Coal as fuel 54 aux pointes d’asperges. . 476 ranges. . 5-61 a la rentiere 476 Coating of moulds.. 132 en supreme . . 476 Cobnuts, in season 38 de pluviers a la Monaco 516 Cobourg trifle 824 de poires au Porto . . 796 Cochon a la broche 607 de pommes a la creme Concombre (Cucumber) .. 795 de lait roti 607 228 pieds de, a la Perigcrd 459 a la creme 638 a la St. Menehoulde .. 4di a I’Espagnole 639 Cockie leekie 218 a ritalienne . . 639 Cocks’ combs a la Demidoff 372 a la Napolitaine 639 Cocktail, brandy .. 982 a la Tartare .. 232 Martini 981 barquettes de 232 sloe gin 982 beignets de . . 638 whisky 982 braise a la Moelle 385 Cocoa, how to make 966 coupes de, a I’Algerienne . . 385 Cocoanut biscuits. . 953 creme de, a la Reinel 209 cake .. 930 .darioles de, a la Mena 639 ice 961 en surprise 232 junket 970 farci . . 639 macaroons 951 puree de 639 Cod (Cabillaud) .. ..2^, 38, 40, 43 salades de 698-9 baked, a la menagere 894 Condes au fromage Confectioner’s custard 883 braised 273 137 crimped 273 Conserve, tomato .. 975 fried, Dieppe style . . 273 Consomme (Clear Soup) a I’Africaine 200 fried, Indian style . . 272 1 Algenenue 1831073 GENERAL INDEX. PAGE 1 Consomme (ClearSoup)a rAlexaiulra 200 Consomme(Clear Soupjanx macaroni p.\Gi-; 202 a I’Ambassadrice 200 a la Madrid . . 192 a I’Ancienne . . 200 a la Magenta 202 a I’Andalouse 183 maigre 202 a I’Aurore 200 Maintenon 202 a la bagration 200 a la Mancelle 192 a la baviere . . 200 Mancelle 202 a la Belle Fermiere . . 200 Mercedes 202 a, la Benjamin Legois 200 Messaline 202 a la Bohemienne 200 Metternich . . 192. 202 a la bouquetiere 201 Mikado 192 bouqiietiere . . 184 Milanaise 203 a la Bourbon 201 Mirenmare 202 a la Brisse 184 1 moelle de Iioeuf 203 Brunoise 184 Monaco 203 Bril noise an riz 184 mulligatawny 193 Careme 184 a la Nantaise 193 a la Carlsbad i8s a la Napoleon '93 Carmen 185 Napolitaine . . 203 a la Caroline . . 201 a la Nemours '93 Celestine 185 a la Nesselrode 193 a la chasseur . . 201 aux nouilles . . 194 a la chateleine 201 nouveau regne 203 aux choux farcis 2or aux auifs files 203 Christophe Colomb . . 185 Olga 203 a la Claremont 201 d’Orleans 203 clarification of t8o au pain de foie 203 Colbert 186 aux pates d’ltalie 194 a la Conde 186 paysanne '94 a la Dante 201 aux petits choux farcis 186 a la Daumont 201 navets . . 203 a la Desligiiac 187 Pierre le Grand 203 anx diablotines 201 aux pointes d’asperges 203 a la diplomate t88 1 Portugaise 194 a la Dubarry 188 a la princesse 19.^ a la Dubelloy 201 printaniere 203 Dubourg t88 printanier aux quenelles 19.3 a la Duchesse 201 aux profiteroles 203 a la Duclair . . 201 aux quenelles de volaille '87 a I'ecossaise . . 201 aux quenelles frites . . '9.S Espagnole 188 aux queues de bneuf 203 a I’estragon . . 201 Rachel 203 a la fiamande . . 188 Ramboule 193 fermiere 201 ravioli 195 fleuri . . 189 renaissance . . 196, 20^ florador 189 a la Richelieu 19ft Florentine 201 au riz . . 204 fro id a la Vivian 204 lies Rois ig6 general stock for 179 Rossini 204 de gibier 202 Rothschild 204 d’abatis . . 202 royale 197 St.-Hnbert 189 Russe 204 grand veneur 199 au sagoii 197 a la Grimaldi 202 a la Santos-Dumont. . 204 grisonne 189 Sarah Bernhardt 204 a la Homburg 202 au semoule 204 a la Hongroise 202 Sevigne 197 a I’imperiale . . a rindienne . . IQO, 202 Solferino 197 202 a la St. Galle. . 189 jardiniere 190 St. Saens 204 julienne 190 a la Talma 198 a la Juliette . . 202 a la tomate . . 198 Jurasienne 191 a la tortne 198 I.ilienne 191 tortue-fausse 204 3 Y1074 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK PAGE \ _ PAGE Consomme (ClearSoup) ala Toscane 199 Cotelettes (Cutlets) a la Danzig 538 to strain 131 a la duchesse 396 aux vermicelles 204 a la jardiniere . . 396 vietrich 204 a la lion d’or 392 vitellns 204 a la Longuet 396 de volaille 187 a la Malmaison . . 392 a la cliifEonn.de . . 186 a la Maltaise 396 frappe 187 a la Mange 393 Xavier 199 a la St. Menehould 396 Cookery, art of 13-6 a la moscovienne 538 origin of 22 a la princesse 396 objects of 21 a la Renaissance 539 philosophy of 21 a la Richelieu . . 393 science of . . . 17-21 a la Robert 396 Cooking fuels ■;4-6 a la Royale 396 meats, hints on 125 a la Singarat 396 loss in . . 93 j a la Villeroi 393 processes 76-93 grillees . . 391 stoves 56-64 Marienbad 391 in stoneware .. 92-3 chaud-froid de 539 temperatures 65-6 de chevreuil a la Turque 535 thermometers 66 aux concombres 396 twice .. 91-2 aux epinards .. 396 utensils 67-75 aux oeufs 690 Copper utensils, to clean. . 49 aux trufiEes 396 Coq de bruyere (grouse) roti 613 de faisan a la Richelieu 510 salmi de Sii de gibier a I’etoile 586 spatchcock de 511 de homard . . 308 Coque, cretes de, a la DemidoflE .. 372 a I’aspic .. 314 Coquilles (shells or shell shapes) 354 Chaud-froid a la diplomate 317 de cervelle de veau .. 354 de lapereau . . 506 de champignons 354 de lievre a I’aHemande 535 de filets de soles a la favorite 326 mignonnes a la tomates 569 de homard a la Gauloise 309 de mouton a I’avignonnaise 406 d’huitres a la Suedoise 855 a la Bardoux 406 gratinees. . 854 a la Bretonne .. 398 de perdreau . . 354 a la Byron 398 de poisson 303 a la Choiseul 406 de pois verts a la Suedoise . . 381 a la Clamart 407 potato, with eggs 906 a la Dreux 407 de poulet a la cardinal 354 a la Druard 399 de ris de veau 354 a la linan9iere . . 407 de truffes 354 a la fraii9aise 407 de volaille truffee 354 a la gelee 536 Corbeille de nougat 928 a rindienne 407 Coriander (coriandre) IIS a I’ltalienne 407 Cornets genevoise 939 a la Madras 407 aux petits pois 388 , a la Maintenon . . 407 de nougat a la creme 806 a la Milanaise . . 407 de York a la gelee 718 a la minute 407 Cornflour blanc-mange . . 823 a la Nelson 407 custard pudding 731 a la Nivernaise .. 407 liaison. . 106 a la Pompadour 400, 541 souffle 744 a la Prince de Galles 400 sauce .. 172 a la princesse 400 Cornish cutlets 90s a la proven9ale . . 401 Cosmopolitan soups 102 a la puree de pommes 407 Cotelettes (Cutlets), Vatel en surprise 817 a la reforme 401 d’agneau (Lamb) 396 a la riche 401 a la Bonaparte . . 390 a la St. Cloud . . 407 a la Cahors 390 a la St. Germain 407 a la Constance .. 396 a la Salvanty 408 a la Creole 391 a la Soubise 399 a la Cussy 396 a la Soyer 408'075 GENERAL INDEX. a la Talleyrand 402 de pore a la diplomate 460 a la Vallorbes . . 541 Cotes or Cotelettes de veau 411 a la vatel 408 ! de veau a I’aUemande 412 a la venaisoii 408 Coupes (cups) frappees a la Capucine 837 a la vicomtesse . . 408 glacces a la royale . . . 839 aux haricots verts 407 ii la Mikado . . . 838 ail naturel 399 : de concombres a rAlgerienne 385 aux petits pois . . 399 j St. Jacques . . ■ . 838 aux tomates 408 1 St. Martin .. . 838 aux truffes 39'5 de peches a la reine . . . 838 risiennes a I’ecarlate 444 Courge (vegetable marrow)— perdreaux a la finan^iere 524 crepinettes de 377 pigeons a la Nicoise 476 1 Court bouillon 255 a la proveiKjale 476 I Crabs (crabes), zephires of 321 pluviers en caisses 529 ; salad . . 700 pois a la St. Germain 373 1 and lettuce salad 707 a ITndienne 459 zephires de, a la royale 321 a la Navarraise . . 460 Cranberries, in season 38 a la Robert 456 Cranberry jelly 969 a la Soubise 457 Crawfish, in season 38 aux lines herbes 459 Crayfish or shrimp butter 175 aux haricots blanc 460 in season 38 aux lentilles 460 mayonnaise of 243 marinees 460 ' Creams and filtered soups 101 aux pommes 460 Cream (Creme), almond . . 136 poulet a la Chinoise 501 asparagus 207 saumon a la Danoisc 257 banana 772 a ITndienne 256 caramel • 778 veau a 1’Anglaise . . 412 lemon 771 a la bordelaise . . 412 canary . 824 a la Cracovie 412 cauliflower 209 a la dauphine . . 412 celery 208 a la demi-glace . . 4T2 chicken 216 a la Dreux 412 French chicken ■ . 215 a I’Ecarlate 412 with asparagus .. 490, 569 a la fran9aise 4II with tomatoes . . 562 a ITtalienne 412 small chicken . . 358. 565 a la lorgnette 412 tomato-shaped . . 564 a la maitre d’hotel 412 chocolate 771 a la marechale . . 412 chestnut 772 a la Marguerite 547 chicory 208 a la Milanaise . . 412 cucumber 209 a la Parjarski . . 412 duckling, small 576 a la Parma 412 Empress 779 a la Prusse 412 fish, small 719 a la Reine 412 fruit, mixed . . 782 a la Saint-Cloud 413 Genoese 778 a la Singarat 413 ginger 778 a la Soubise 413 gooseberry 779 a la Zingari 413 ham and peas 720 en Belle-Vue 412 Mosaic 780 en chaud-froid . . 547 Neapolitan . . 960 en crepinettes . . 412 opera .. 960 froides .. 545 orange 781,961 en papillotes 412 peach . . 772,781 ; venaison aux marrons 534 peppermint . . 961 ; volaille a la gelee 561 pineapple . 778 a la Melba 566 Roman 782 a la Montpensier 502 sauce . . 165 a la Richelieu .. 491 sorbet.. 849 ignonnes a la tomate 569 sugar, burnt . . 781 de boeuf braise 597 Swiss . . 782 la Normande 597 tomato 664THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1076 PAGE ! PAGE Cream (Creme) vanilla 772 Crevettes, ■ oeufs farcies aux 684 to whip 130 petits pains de 320 Creme (Cream) {see also Bavarois) — pates de 867 a gateau fourre 137 Croissants . . 930 de Pithivier 137 Cromesquis, or kromeskis 357 a I'aspic 147 a la Jackson .. 654 a la Bayonne 216 a la Russe 357 a la Genoise . . 778 aux huitres . . . . . . ' 304 a I’imperatrice 779 an jambon 357 a la Monaco . . 779 aux oeufs 685 a 1’Orange 781 de volaille 357 a la Romaine 782 Croqnants, nougat et 819 d’amandes 136 Croquettes .. 358 d’ananas a la Villenenve 778 d’asperges 625 d’artichauts . . 207 de boeuf a I’anglaise . . 451 d’asperges, printaniere 207 a ritalienne 451 d’avoine, potage 221 de cerises 763 de ble vert, potage a la de bananes, glace a la 222 chicken 358 83' de crosnes 639 bridee. . 76S curry . . 900 caramel 778 de foie-gras . . 358 de celeri 147, 208 fish .; 311 glacees . . 889 de gibier aux truffes. . 358 de chicoree an velonte 208 aux huitres . . 856 de concombre a la reine 209 d’huitres an jambon. . 855 de jambon et pois 720 ham and rice. . 898 cuite a la Suisse 782 de lapereau a la Maintenon. . 506 de fraise, glace a la . . 830 lobster 308 frangipane 137 aux oeufs 68 s frappee anx mille fruits 780 macaroni 669 frites . . 770 parmentier 428 ail fromage .. 886 de perdreau . . 358 frites an fromage 886 pheasant 900 an gingembre 778 pointes d’asperges '625 de groseille verte 779 de poisson 311 de mirabelles en surprise 780 de pommes de terre . . 428 mosaique 780 de riz . . 763 patissiere (confect, cn.stard) 137 au salpicon 358 anx peches . . 781 de rognons de veau .. 358 de raifort, froide 158 de saumon 261 renversee 781 de semoule 671 Sevigne (potage) 222 savoury rice . . 673 sorbet a la 849 de veau 358 an tapioca aux frits . . 782 de volaille 358 tutti-frutti . . 782 Crosnes (stachys) a la creme 639 de volaille a rArgentenil 496 a ritalienne . . 639 a I’ecarlate 565 beignets de . . 639 a la Franfaise .. 21 croquettes de. . 639 en tomates 562 puree de 640 zabajone (Mexican custard) 769 Croustades or cassolettes.. 354 Creole egg sandwiches 924 Cronstades a la Montreux 356 Crepes (pancakes) 76S de cailles a la champenoise. . 523 beignets de . . 768 de canard a la chartraine . . 471 an caviar 859 aux champignons 887 flan de, anx epinards 874 de gibier a la Gambetta 530 Crepinettes 353 a la vatel 356 de foie-gras anx asperges 372 aux huitres . . 356 de gibier 353 de macaroni . . 356 de courge 377 de saumon a la diable ' 869 de ris de vean en caisses 353 Croute-au-pot 183 de volaille trutfees . . 354 Croutes a la Badminton . . 861 Cretes de coqne a la Demidoff 372 a la Baron 861 Crevettes (shrimp, prawn)— a la Bedford . . 861 bonnes-bouches de, Avondale 230 a la Darvelle .. 861GENERAL INDEX. 1077 Croutes a la Jubilee PAGE 862 Cups, Moselle 979 a la Normande 769 pineapple 979 a la St. Georges 862 Cura90a, mousse au 841 bananes sur . . 887 Canadian curlers . . 9-14 caviare sur . . 858 Currants . . 3f< de foie-gras a la Dumas 861 Curried Beef 448 aux ecrevisses a la tartare . . ^43 broad beans and tomatoes 379 de foie de volaille, or foies de chicken 493 volaille aux canapes 862 eggs .. 689 aux fraises 802 kidneys 901 de homard 869 mince .. 904 au jamboii 862 mutton or lamb 462 de laitance de cabillaud a la 239 pork . . . ' 461 Madras 860 prawns 896 au Madere 769 rice 672 de merluche fumee . . 862 sardines 897 petites {see Petites croiites). tripe . . 462 a la Prince de Galles 862 Curry (kari) 115 Croutons, cardons en, a la veloutee 628 crocpiettes 900 a I'Espagnole 242 Indian dry . . 462 parmesan 180 omelet 979 semolina 466 sauce . . 147 Crumbed potatoes 649 Custard, confectioner's .. 137 Crumbing and egging 131 moka or coffee custard 943 stale bread for 9/8 nourishing 917 Crust, anchovy paste 136 pudding 917 hot-water 136 barley . . 917 paste, short . . 133 cornflour 731 Cucumber (Concombre) .. 38,42- -3,228 f Mexican 769 with cream sauce 638 royal, for clear soups 180 darioles 639 savoury 917 digestion of . . 43 Cutlets (Cotelettes), Cornish 905 fritters 638 chicken in aspic 561 and green-pea gondolas 236 or game . . 569 and lettuce sandwiches 926 egg 690 omelet 679 fish 913 salad . . 698 game, cold . . 586 with cream 699 green pea 373 and lettuce 704 imitation (sweet dish) . 817 sauces . . 147 lamb, breaded 393 in season 38 cold • 53S-9 stuffed 639 grilled . . 391 Cuisses de dinde farcies Garibaldi 504 lobster 308 de poulet a la Clementine . . 501 in aspic . . 314 de volaille aux epinards 492 cold 333 a la Florentine . . 493 mutton, cold . . 541 a la Wellington .. S02 with green peas. . 399 Cuissot de chevreuil 607 plain 399 d’ours a la Cussy 536 Reform style 401 de sanglier aux cerises 536 Strasbourg style 401 de venaison a la Richemond 536 partridge 524 Culinary pastes 133 plovers’, in cases 529 requisites 67-75 pork, with onion sauce 457 terms, glossary of 1053 Robert sauce 456 Culottes de boeuf, Maintenon 451 quail . . 518 Cups, popular 979 rabbit, wild . . 506 Bacchus 980 salmon 256 Badminton . . 979 with Danish sauce 257 Chablis 979 sweetbread . . . 428 cider . . ’ . . . . 979-80 veal 411 claret . . 979 chaud-froid 547 hock . . 979 cold 545 Maitrank 979 French style 411 Mikado 838 Hungarian style 416THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. [078 PAGE ‘ Cutlets,venison, with chestnut puree c;34 Dinde (Turkey) a la Yorkshire . . I'AGE 503 Polish fashion . . 534 ailerons de, braises aux navets 503 Cygnets (Norfolk) in season 38 : ballotines de . . 503 J)AmES d’honneur (maids of blanquette de, aux morilles. . bouilli a I’ecarlate 504 608 honour) 945 i bouillie au celeri 503 Damsons, in season 38 cuisses de, farcies, Garibaldi 504 Danish salad 714 dominos de . . 572 sandwiches 926 en blanquette 503 sauce .. 147 en brioche S03 Darioles de cailles a la Rossini 722 farcie aux marrons . . 610 de canard a la St. Germain 470 filets de, a la cardinal 504 de concombres a la Mena 639 frite a la tomate 503 de foie-gras a la vatel 572 1 grillee a la diable 503 en Belle-Vue 571 pates de 556 de lapin a la reine 505 rotie aux truffes 610 de sanmon a la Moscovienne 318 Dindonneau (young turkey) braise 504 rle volatile a la Chartrense 567 saute aux champignons 504 a la diplomate .. 559 Dinner rolls 976 Dariolettes a la Chantilly 81S Dishes for invalids .. ..910-20 Darne de cabilland a la Sefton 333 how to wash . . 40 d’estnrgeon a la Milanaise 314 popular accompaniments with 40-3 de sanmon a I’amiral 262 Dishing up. . . . . . . . 978 a la Danoise 257 Dormes a la Viennoise . . 359 a la Duchesse . . 257 fenilletes de ris de veau 358 a la national 256 Dormettes de volaille a la Janette 570 a la ravigote 319 Dominoes . . 948 Darnes de truites en Belle-Vue 326 ! a la Rochelais 230 Dartois aux abricots meringues Q41 de Dinde 572 de peches 754 Dough nuts 957 Dattes (dates) aux amandes 802 Dry pickling 130 farcies frites . . 769 Dresden pu&ing . . . . ’ . . 732 Deer (see cerf) 53S. 6o8 Duchess paste 134 Demi-feuilletage . . 134 Duchesses .. 952 Denises a I’epicurienne 925 au caviare 240 de fromage a la creme 923 de lax a la Haakon . . 870 a la jalousie .. 8t5 Duchess pudding .. 732 a la princesse. . 247 Duck (Canard), to carve . . 988-9 Suedoise 248 braised, with olives . . 464 a la Turque . . 247 with turnips 611 aux amandes.. 941 with vegetables. . 465 Des de foie-gras a la Strasbourgeoise 572 darioles of . . 470 Dessert biscuits .. .. 049, 952, ^ 955 fillets of 463 ices 834 grilled. . 466 macaroons 946 and ham mousse (cold) 724 tartlets, small 955 quenelles 469 Devilled almonds . . 891 roast . . 611 butter. . 175 rolled .. 466 caviare 859 salad .. 696 chicken 905 salmi of 464 game .. 905 supreme of . . 467 lax 870 how to truss . . 126 salmon 869 , Duckling (Caneton) Bohemian style 466 Devonshire junket 970 braised 467-8 Diables a cheval . . 863 Crapaudine style 468 Diablotines a la gruyere .. 879 creams, small 576 Diet, Ranke’s 20 fdlets of, Baloise style 577 Dinde (Turkey) a la Chipolata 503 grilled. . 469 a la Florentine 502 roast . . 611 a la Godard . . 503 Rouenese style 611 a la Provengalc 503 Dumplings, Exeter 977 a la Reyniere. . 503 Norfolk 97: a la St. James 503 1 suet 971 a la Toulouse.. 503 1 Dutch Charlotte . . 7931079 GENERAL INDEX. Dutch .sauce, green 167 Duxelle jiiiree 140 g.VSTER cake, French . . Eclairs d’anchois 040 866 au cafe 943 au chocolat 943 de sardines . . 863 a la Sevigne 233 Ecrevisses (prawns) bisque d' caisses d’, a la Mayonnaise 205 243 cassolettes d’, Richelieu 867 caviar au 241 crofites aux, a la Tartare 243 jialmiers d’ . . 244 Eels (anguilles), fried . . 297-8 in savoury jelly 332 matelote of . . 297 stewed 298, 914 Egg dishes (plats d’ooul's). . 681 Egg ((Euf) bouillon 91! coffee . . 919 croc^uettes 685 cutlets 690 tlarioles 386, 681 jelly 918 kromeskies 683 liaison. . 105 nog 919 plant (see .'Cubergine) 42 salad . . ■ • 707 sandwiches . . 923 sauce .. 148, 168 shells . . 978 and soda water 920 tea 919 and tomato ramakins 906 timbales 721 wine . . 920 Eggs (OEufs), anchovy, buttered 683 how to choose 37 curried 68q fish 682 fricasseed 682 fried, in brown butter 686 mayonnaise of 907 poached in milk 916 wine 681 tomato sauce . . 687 with tongue 686 penguin’s 590 plover’s 39 in savoury jelly. . 589 potato coquilles with 906 preserving 977 in puff pastry . . 689 seaman's way 687 Scotch 906 scrambled 683 with truffles 683 steamed 916 stuffed, with jirawns 684 whites of. to whisk . . 130 yolks of. to keej) . . 078 Egging ami crumbing Electricity.. Elementary metliocE Empress cream sandwiches Endive a I’Ardennaise a la creme ■an JUS., a la Mornay . . salad . . with bacon and celery salad Entrecotes (Steaks) a la Bearnaise a la Bordelaise grilles Edouard VII a la maitre d’hotel a la moelle a la Montague a la Nicolas . . a la Parisienne a la Rockaway an beurre d’ancliois anx pommes souftlees Entrees, classification of cold dishes cold service aspic for light . . of game of meat of poultry vegetable and farmag socle of rice for Entremets, savoury . . . . 854 cold sweet . . . . . . 771 , hot sweet Epaule (shoulder) d’agneau . . 598 d’agneau a la Chevet . . 397 a la Montmorency . . 397 a la Paysanne . . . . 397 a la Polonaise . . . . 397 de niouton farcie . . . . 598 a la Sainte-Menehouid . . 408 Eperlans (smelts) a la Celestine . . 299 eii brochettes . . . . 299 au citron . . . . . . 298 chartreuse d’, a la St. Mandi- 300 farcis a la Pouraine . . . . 299 , soultie d’ . . . . . . 301 Epernay, biscuits . . . . . . 937 Epicurean sandwiches . . . . 925 , sauce .. .. . . ^ . . 165 Epigranimes d’agneau (see Agneau) 397 de faisan a la jardiniere .. 509 de poulets anx truffes . . 501 de saumon a la diplomate .. 319 de volaille a la Villeroi . . 502 Epinards (Spinach) a la Bechamel 640 a la creme . . . . .. 640 a la Eorestiere . . . . 640 a ritalienne . . . . . . 640 en branches .. .. .. 641 a la Colbert . . . . . . 640 farcis a la Moelle .. .. 381 131 58 121-40 779 026 640 640 640 640 698 698 705 451 451 445 451 451 451 451 451 451 451 451 346-8 348 537-91 132 349-73 ■ 507-36 390-462 463-506 374-89 132THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. io8o Epinards (Spinach) flan de crepes aux friandines aux gondoles aux aux o?ufs a la vert-pre petits souffles aux . . puree aux et oeufs, salade aux . . Epitome, a gastronomic .. Equivalents of weights and , measures . . Escalopes de cailles a la Princesse de chevreuil a la chasseur . de foie-gras a la bagration . de foie-gras Lucullus de langouste a la cardina de lievre marinees de mouton a la Chipolata . de poulet a I'Anglaise de ris de veau a la Parmentiei de saumon a la Nantaise de soles a la Vernon de turbot a la dauphine de veau (ser Veau, escalopes) de venaison a la Polonaise Essence de volaille Essences of meat for sauces veal or mutton Esturgeon (sturgeon) a I'anchois a la cardinal . . darne d’, a la Milanaise , papillotes d’ .. Etuver cooking process . . Extractives 874 388 382 640 641 209 700 999 520 535 572 373 310 535 408 SOI 428 262 292 26s 414 534 140 107 911 3T4 314 314 314 Farce (Forcemeat) de poisson a quenelle de poisson . . 177 quenelles, chicken or veal . . 181 de veau .. .. .. 177 de volaille . . . . . . 178 ravioli . . . . . . 196 Fat for buttering moulds . . 128 frying in . . . . . . 129 to clarify .. .. .. 129 Fausse tortue (mock turtle) consomme potage Feuilles de laitue a I’Americaine 237 aux crevettes . . . . 233 Feuilletage (puff-paste) .. .. 133 oeufs en . . . . . . 689 Fennel sauce .. .. .. 166 Feves de Marais (broad beans) et tomates a I’lndienne . . 379 Fieldfare (grives) in season . . 38 Figues (figs), bordure de, a la creme 773 Filtered soups . . . . . . loi Fines herbcs, omelette aux . . 675 pommes de terre, farcies aux 653 lobster . . . . . . 868 sauce Colbert aux . . . . 146 tomates aux . . . . . . 665 Fingers, raspberry . . . . 958 sponge 937 spoon or sponge . . . . 954 Fish (Poisson) cakes .. . . 894 hints on choosing . . . . 24-5 croquettes .. .. .. 311 AISAN (Pheasant) bonne femme 510 cutlets eggs 913 914 a la Cavour . . 510 essences for sauces . . 107 a la Livournaise 510 fricassee of . . 914 a la Richemont 510 fritters '895 a la Rossini . . 510 smoked . . 895 en aspic S8i quenelle forcemeat . . 177 barde au cresson 612 pates . . 311 bordure de, a la chasseur . . 507 patties .902 braisSaux choux 507 pie 894 chartreuse de, a la Balmoral 581 American 311 en casserole .. 510 raised 311 en cocotte =;o8 pilaw, Turkish 909 en coquette . , '510 planked 908 cotelettes de, a la Richelieu 510 pudding, baked 913 epigrammes de, a la jardiniere 509 light . . 913 farce de 178 with rice 896 filets de, a la Talleyrand 511 salad in aspic 896 aux epinards '510 sauce for 163 gradins de, a la Mancelle . . 584 souffl A . 29b 914 petites cremes de 583 soups .. lOI potage de, a la Diana 217 stock for maigre soups 97 en robe de chambre . . 508 timbales 312 salmis de, a la bohemienne . . 511 vol-au-vent of 313 terrine de, a la Cossart 508 Flageolets a la poulette .. Flan d’ananas a la neige. . 6\2 timbales de, a la Rothschild 583 755 mtaisies, glaces .. 834 petits flans au Camembert 893 tree (Forcemeat) de champignons 457 de crepes aux epinards 874 de faisan 178 de fraises a la Parisienne 805 de foie de veau 178 a la Suisse 804 de gibier 178 aux fruits 805GENERAL INDEX. io8i PAGIi PAGE Flavouring or compound butters i ■4-77 Food, tinned 977 Flemish salad 7i5 Forcemeat (Farce) balls .. 972 sauce . . 166 chicken 178 Fleurettes de foie-gras . . 573 fish quenelle . . 177 de turbot a la Hollandaise . . 31 s game . . 178,519 Fleurons 974 liver . . 178 Florador, petits cannelons au . . 671 mushroom 457 Florentines de lievre 535 oyster 972 Flounders, in season 38 panade for 123 Janin style 269 pheasant 178 souchet of 270 pounding for . . 139 Foie de veau (calf’s liver) — ravioli 196 a la Clermont 418 veal 177 a I'echalote . . 418 whiting 177 braise 418 Fowl (volaille) •• 35.42 farce de 178 boiled 608 petits souffles de 37^ in piiikin 482 Foie de volaille, brochettes de . . 892 (Sac also Wildfowl, Waterfowl) croutes de 862 Fraises (Strawberries) a la Celest ine 803 Foie-gras (Goose liver), canapes a la Maud 803 de . . 245 a la Melba 824 boudins de. Parisienne 472 baignes de . . 764 chaud-froid de, en caisses . . 571 bananes farcies aux . . 791 crepinettes de, aux asperges 372 beignets de . . 764 croquettes de 358 biscuits glace aux 835 darioles de, en Belle-Vue 571 bombes de, a la Macaire 790 a la Vatel 572 bordure aux, a la Madrid . 804 des de, a la Strasbourgeoise. . 572 charlotte aux 792 escalopes de, Lucullus 372 chartreuse aux 777 a la bagration . . 572 croutes aux . . 802 Ileurettes de . . 573 Han de a la Suisse 804 friandines de 3 59 meringue a la Parisienne 805 glace a la Flongroise 574 gelee aux 784 mosaic de, a la diplomate . . 570 gateau de, en surprise 808 pains de, a la Georges Sand . . 574 glacees en coupes 835 parfait de 571 en gelee 784 mousses de, a I'Ancienne 575 gondoles de . . 803 a la Reine 576 glace aux 830 jietites caisses de, aux trulfes 352 glace a la creme de . . 830 petits pains de 361 mousse de, a I’Americaine . 842 quenelles de, Perigueux 472 i a la neige 799 rissoles de 365 i omelette aux 761 rissolettes de, a la Pompadour 364 i petits pains de 791 sandwiches 923 precieuses de 764 zephires de (cold) 576 pouding souffle aux . . 742 sauce supreme (hot) 371 sorbet aux 849 Fondant 959 timbale rustique aux, glacees 811 cake .. 138 Tivoli aux 791 chocolat 960 tranches de, a la neige 803 covering 959 i Framboises (see Raspberry) en gelee 784 fruit 959 ' mousse de, a la neige 799 moulded 959 frappe . . . . 840 rose 959 ! pouding souffle aux . . 742 vanilla 959 souffle frappe aux 843 F'onds d’artichauts (sf e Artichauts) 253 supreme de . . 807 Fondu a la Brillat-Savariu 88^ tartelettes aux 942 a ritalieniie .. 88 3 Frappe, cafe, en tasses, a la Vieiinoise 853 souffle au fromage .. 88^ mousse, Prince Piickler 841 F'ood, calendar of, in season 38-9 .souffle a la Reine Isabelle . 843 chemical constituents and souffle aux framboises 843 combinations of .. . . i [7-21 French apple amber 751 hints on buying 23-4 beau souffle . . 381 oil choosing 23-5 beans (see Haricots Verts) . . 3 8,42 digestion of . . 43 preserved, to heat up . 667io82 THE HEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. French chicken cream 215 Fritters (Beignets) corn, green .. 900 Easter cake . . 940 cream. . 770 family, soup .. 181 cucumber 638 lish stew 255 lish 895 fruit tart 801; smoketl . . 895 gingerbread . . 937 gooseberry 765 lamb stew 394 greengage 765 lentil soup 211 ham and foie-gras 872 pancakes 768 leek 649 pineapple tart 755 macaroni 670 pumpkin soup 213 Madras 871 rabbit stew . . 504 maize. . 375 salad dressing 713 Milanese 767 spinach pancakes 874 oyster. . 303 tea biscuits . . 934 pancake 768 Freezing operation, the . . 827 pineapple 766 Friandines (patties) 359 Polish. . 767 a la Westphalienne . . 875 savoury 872 aux epinards. . 388 strawberry . . . . 764 de foie-gras . . 359 sweetbread . . 900 de gibier 359 in cases .. 349 a la Perigueux . . 531 tomato 662 de ris d’agneau 359 vanilla 767 de veau .. 359 veal . . 900 de volaille 359 yeast, batter for 135 Fricandean de chevreuil jroche 608 Frivolites, Bohemienne . . 233 pique aux epinards . . 601 Fromage (Cheese), aigrettes de .. 881 de veau a la regence. . 415 ballons de 883 Fricandelles a I’AHemande 360 biscotins au . . 877 de veau au gratin 415 biscuits de, a la creme 880 sauce tomate. . 415 condes au 883 Fricassee of fish :. 914 creme frites au 886 d’huitres 305 cremes au 886 irreufs 682 denises de 923 petoncles en . . 301 petites croutes au 878 de poulet {see Poulet, fricassee) 482 souffles au 884 de veau (see Veau, fricassee de) 415 fondue au 88^ Fncot d’ours a la chasseur 536 timbale de creme de . . 886 Fried hominy cakes 673 Fruit (Fruit), hints in choosing .. 36 breadcrumbs.. 615 macedoine de, a la gelee 787 eels .. 297-8 marzipan 958 parsley 122 pie, invalid 918 sole . . . . ' 913 preserving 967 sprats .. 302 salad . . 717 sweetbread . . 915 sandwiches . . 927 whiting 913 Fruits, bordure de, a la nationale 756 Fritot d’anguilles a la Kemouiade 297 compote de, a la Chantilly . . 795 anx huitres . . 857 creme de, a la Montfleuri 825 de poireaux . . 649 au tapioca aux . . 782 Fritters (Beignets), apple 765 flan aux 805 apricot 766 glaces . . 840 artichoke '381 [, 619 mille, creme frappee aux 780 banana 766 a la princiere . . 847 beef . . 899 salade de 826 bloater 895 sultane aux, glaces . . 821 brain . . 899 timbales aux, a la metropole 758 bread, French 769 de, a la Louis Napoleon 733 calf’s brain . . 349 vol-au-vent de, a la Versailles 819 foot 349 Frying, average degrees of heat for 66, 90 cauliflower . . 638 batter. . 135 celeriac 376 in fat or oil . . 129 cheese 668, 878 process 89-91 chicken 349 Fuel, wasting 978 coffee . . 766 Fuels, gaseous 54GENERAL INDEX. I'AGE Fuels, liijuid . . . . . . 55 solid . . . . . . . . 54 Fumet . . . . . . . . 107 of game (fumet de gibier) . . 140 QALANTINE de beeuf . . . . 543 de perdreaux . . . . 584 de volaiUe .. .. .. 556 Galettes a la Lorraine . . . . 933 Game (scff aLo Gibier) .. .. 35,43 cassolettes of. . . . . . 355 amd celery salad . . . . 703 crepinettes . . . . . . 353 croustade .. .. .. 356 devilled . . . . . . 905 essences for sauces . . . . 107 forcemeat .. .. 178, 519 for cailles, a la Tosca . . 519 fumet of .. .. .. 140 hints in choosing . . . . 35-6 how to bone .. .. .. 127 purees, ponltr3^ meat, etc. . . 214 salad . . . . . . . . 70T sauces. . . . . . 149, 159, 166 terrine of . . . . . . 587 time for baking .. .. 128 Garbure fanchonette .. .. 214 Garlic (ail). . . . . . . . 119 Garniture (Garnish) a I’Allemande 335 a rAlexandra .. . . 335 a I’AHiance . . . . . . 335 a I’Alsacienne . . . . 335 a I’Amiral . . . . . . 335 a I’Ancienne . . . . . . 335 a I’Andalouse . . . . 335 a I’Anglaise . . . . . . 335 a I’Arlesienne . . . . 336 a I’Athenienne . . . . 336 a la Bayard . . . . . . 336 a la Bayonnaise . . . . 336 a la Beaufort. . .. .. 336 en Belle-Vue . . .. .. 336 a la Bigarade . . . . 336 a la Bignon . . . . . . 336 a la Bohemienne . . . . 336 alaBontoux.. .. .. 336 a la Bordeaux .. .. 336 a la Bordelaise . . . . 336 a la Boulangere . . . . 336 a la Bouquetiere . . . . 336 a la Bourgeoise .. .. 336 a la Bourgogne .. .. 336 a la Bourguignotte . . . . 337 a la Bonrguinonne .. .. 337 a laBretonne. . . . . . 337 a la Brillat-Savarin . . . . 337 alaBrisse .. .. .. 337 a la Bristol .. .. .. 337 a la Bruxelloise .. .. 337 a la Cambaceres .. .. 337 a la Camerani . . . . 337 a la Cancale .. .. .. 337 a la Canova .. .. .. 337 a la Cardinal .. . . . . 337 Garniture (Cfarnish) a la Cavour . . la Castelainu 3.17 337 aux cepes a la Chambortl a la Charti-e . . a la Chartreuse a la Chasseur. . a la Chateaubriand a la Chesterfield a la Chevaliere a la Chipolata a la Chivry . . a la Clamart . . a la Clermont. . a la Conti a la Crapaudine a la Cressy or Crecy a la Cumberland a la Dartois . . a la Dauphine a la Dieppoisc a la Don Juan a la Doria a la Dubarry. . a la Dubouzet alaDuchesse. . a la Duclair . . a la Dufferin. . a la Durance. . a I’Ecarlate . . a I’Ecossaise . . a I'Espagnole. . a la Favorite . . a la Fermiere. . a la Finaii9iere a la Flamande a la Florentine a la Fraii9aise a la Gastronome a la Gauloise . . a la Genoise . . a la Georgienne a la Gitana . . a la Glengarr}' a la Godard . . a la Gouffe . . a la Gourmet. . a la Grecque . . a la Gudewife a la Henri IV. a la Hongroise a rimperiale. . 337 337 337 337 337 338 338 338 338 338 338 338 3.38 338 338 338 338 338 338 338 338-9 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 339 340 340 340 340 340 340 340 340 340 340 340 340 341 341 341 a rirlaudaise. . .. .. 341 a ritalienue . . . . . . 341 a rivoire . . . . . . 341 a la Japonaise . . . . 341 a la Jardiniere . . . . 341 a la Joinville. . .. .. 341 a la Judic . . . . . . 341 a la Jules V’erne .. .. 341 a la Jussieu .. . . . . 341 a la Lavaliere . . . . 341 a la Lorraine. . .. .. 3411084 the new century COOKERY BOOK. Garniture (Garnish) a la Louis XV. PAGE 341 Garniture (Garnish) a la Windsor PAGE 345 a la Lucullus. . 341 Garnishings (see Garniture) 98 a la Lyonnaise 342 for clear soups . . 11 So, 194 a la Macedoine 342 Gas as fuel S4-S a la Maitre d’Hotel . . 342 stoves.. 62-3 a la Marechale 342 Gateaux (Cakes) a I’orange 932 a la Marengo. . 342 a la Portugaise 940 a la Marie Louise 342 a la Regence .. 810 a la Marigny . . 342 a la Reine 807 a la Mariniere 342 a la Russe 942 a la Marseillaise 342 d’amandes 956 a la Mascotte. . 342 d’anges 945 a la Medicis . . 342 carvi .. 932 a la Mentonnaise 342 an chocolat . . 813 a la Mignon . . 342 icing for . . i 38, 813 a la Milanaise 342 Czarina 809 a la Mirelle . . 342 damier 931 a la Mirabeau 342 des dames 934 a la Moderne. . 342 fouree, creme a 137 a la Montebello 342 de fraises en surprise 808 a la Montpensier 342 Genoise 806 a la Nantua .. 342 mille-fenilles . . 813 a la Napolitaine 343 au moka 933 a la Nemours. . 343 moka icing for 809 a la Ni9oise . . 343 mousseline 943 a la Nivernaise 343 de noces 928 a la Normande 343 de paques 940 a rOrientale . . 343 petits, Pithivier 941 a la Palmeritaine 343 de peches a la Rejane 825 a la Parisienne 343 de Pithivier, creme a 137 a la Paysanne 343 de pommes a la Bavaroise .. 810 a la Piemontaise 343 de riz . . 930 a la Polonaise 343 rochers 930 a la Portugaise 343 rustique aux fraises glacces '821 a la Princesse 343 St. Emilion .. 809 a la Printaniere 343 St. Georges au marron 811 a la Proven^ale 343 St. Honore 942 a la Providence 343 Savigny 807 a la Rachel .. 343 de Savoie 931 a la Radziwyl 344 a la Chantilly . . 808 a la Reforme. . 344 trois freres 811 a la Regence . . 344 Victoria 932 a la Renaissance 344 Gaufres aux Parmesan . . 883 a la Riche 344 a la Carnival .. 770 a la Richelieu 344 a la Suisse 938 a la Robson . . 344 a la vanille .. 939 a la Romanoff 344 Gaufrettes, Charlotte de.. 793 a la Rouennaise 344 Gelatine 20, 95 a la Sai'de 344 Gelee (Jelly) a I’aspic 537 a la Savoisieiine 344 a la Polonaise 78s a la Saxonne.. 344 aux airelles . . 969 a la Semillante 344 au citron 784 a la Sorel 344 aux fraises 784 a la St. Cloud 338 fraises en . . . . ' . . 784 a la St. Georges 340 framboises en 784 a la St. Germain 340 Isabelle 784 a la St. Hubert 341 au kirsch a la Nansen 785 alaSouhise .. 344 au marasquin 78s a la Strasbourgeoise 345 Napolitaine, mousseline de . . 787 a la Talleyrand 345 panachee a la Russe.. 786 a la Tortue . . 345 parfait de biscuits en 815 a la Trianon . . 345 au punch 786 a la Trouvillaise 345 au vin 786 a la Valenciennes 345 de Bordeaux 783GENERAL . INDEX. 1085 PAGE i PAGE Gelee (Jelly) de champagne 783 Glace (Ice) an caramel . . 831 d’Oporto 785 charlotte (see Charlotte, glacee) 844 General stock for consommes 99 i au citron 829 Genoa cake 929 ' Dame Blanche 833 Genoese cake 936 fantaises 834 cream 778 fondante au cafe 138 Genoise an cafe 936 aux fraises 830 an chocolat . . 936 au marasquin 829 Genoise cake 806 au melon 831 dccoree 936 au moka 832 German eel soup . . 221 Napolitaine . . S28 quenelles 335 panachee en surprise 834 rusks .. 976 1 aux peches S29 Gherkins (cornichons) 227 1 plombiere, a la Japonaise 830 sauce . . _ . . 165 Rochet Volcp.no 832 Gibelotte de lapin (rabbit) 504 royale 139 a la bourguignonne . . 505 spaghetti en surprise 831 Gibier (Game) andouillettes de .. 530 tutti-frutti . . 834 boudins de, a la Perigueux . . 351 Glaces, biscuits a la Turque 836 cannelons a la, puree de . . 352 aux fraises 835 cassolettes de 3SS fruits . . 840 consomme 202 aids d’oiseau . . 847 cotelettes de, a I'etoile 586 Glaze (glace de viande) . . 140 crepinettes de 353 Glossary of culinary terms 1053 croquettes de, aux truffes . . 358 Gnocchi a la Russe 668 croustades de, a la Gambetta 530 Gnokis a la Suisse 878 a la Vatel 356 Godiveau quenelles 177 farce de 178 Golden buck 883 friandines de 359 plover. . 39 a la Perigueux . . 531 Gondoles a la Clanet 236 fumet de 140 aux epinards 382 mousses de, a la Lion d’Or. . 531 de fraises 803 pate de 589 Goose (oie) 35. 42-3 petites timbales de, a la Galmi ier 369 braised 471 petits pains de, a la Chevalier 586 to carve 989 rissoles de 365 roast, stuffed 612 salade de 701 how to truss . . 126 imperiale 703 time for baking 127 sauces de .. .. 149.159,166 Gooseberries (groseilles) . . 37-8 terrine de, a la Suisse 587 Gooseberry charlotte 792 Gigot de chevreuil a la creme aigre 608 cheese. . 823 gigot demouton {see Mouton) 51 39, 601 cream 779 de pore {see Pore, gigot de). . 607-8 fool 824 de Sanglier a la Bourgogne . . 608 fritters 765 Gingembre, creme an 778 sorbet 849 Ginger (gingembre) 120 Gosling (oison), in season. . 38 cake . . 949 time required for cooking 127 nuts . . 950 Goulache de boeuf 444 Gingerbread cake. . 949 de veau a la Viennoise 419 French 937 Gradins de faisan a la mancelle 584 Scotch 949 Granville sauce 166 Glace (Ice) a I’ananas 829 tartlets 947 a la creme de bananes 831 Grapes (raisins), in season 38-9 de fraises 830 sorbet.. 850 ja la Florentine 8^ Granite d’ananas .. 832 a la Georgette 833 au champagne 832 a la grappe de muscat 8^0 de citron 852 a la Havanne 833 de framboise . . 832 a la Madeleine 833 lemon 832 a la Mexicaine 833 pineapple 832 a rOrange 829 raspberry 832 a la Sarah Bernhardt 833 a la Voltaire . . 852 a la vanille Grappe de muscat, glace a la 830 bombe {see Bombe, glacee). . 866 Grated cheese in onion sauce 977THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. io86 PAGE PAGE Gratin dishes, see pages 275, 301 308, Gumbos a I’Americaine .. 237 427, 450, 623, 627, 634, 63s, 637, Gurnet (grondin), baked, stuffed 293 648, 656, 669, 670, 857, 877, 888 Gravy (jus) 151 JJACHIS de boeuf bourgeoise 449 meaning of . . T04 de mouton a I’ecossaise 408 Green corn timbales 377 a la Portugaise . . 408 fritters . . 900 Haddock, digestion of 43 Greengages (reines-claude) 39 • kedgeree of . . 89s fritters 765 smoked timbale of . . 313 in season 39 Half-puff paste 134 Greens, how to buy 37 Halibut, in season 39 Grenadins de lievre 535 Ham (Jambon) with aspic jelly 554 a la Hanoverienne 532 baked 604 de saumon a la Venitienne 263 Basque style. . 604 de veau a la jardiniere 419 braised, with champagne 605 a la marchand de vin 419 Marguerite style 604 Green Peas (Petits Pois verts) 645 en surprise 605 Basque style . . 646 butter 899 with butter . . 646 Chartreuse, small 457 Flemish style 646 croutes 862 with ham 647 and foie-gras fritters 872 with lettuce . . 647 frosted 899 Nantaise style 647 grilled 898 preserved for table . . 646 how to carve . . 98s puree 647 to cook .. 603-4 and bean salad 708 imitation 816 souffle 648 kromeskies . . ■ 357 Grey hares in season 39 a la minute . . 899 Grey mullet, in season 39 mousse (cold) 553 Grilling process . . 88-9 in savoury jelly 555 Grilled duck 466 omelet 678 duckling 469 and peas creams 720 fillet of beef .. 916 and rice croquettes . . 898 ham with cucumber puree 898 sauce . . . . ... 167 lamb chop 916 sausage 228 mutton chop 915 savoury, macaroni with 897 sole 913 souffle 458 Grisette de pommes. 751 in casserole 555 Grive (fieldfare) . . 511 Spanish . . 555 Grives bardees a la chasseur 511 soup . . 216 Grondin (gurnet) . . 293 Spanish, how to cook 603 a la Talleyrand 293 Westphalia, how to cook 604 farci etouffe . . 293 York, how to cook .. 603 Groseilles (gooseberries), charlotte 792 Hanche de venaison a la dominique 606 precieuses de 955 Hare (Lievre), border of .. 532-3 verte, creme de 779 cold, border of . . 587 vertes, beignets de . . 765 braised, fillets of 532 sorbet de, au marasquin 849 stuffed . . 616 Grouse (coq de bruyere) .. 35. 39, 42 to carve 985 roast . . 613 jugged 531. 534 salmi of 511 mousse 532 Spatchcock of i I r pie 588 time required for baking 128 raised 533 Gruel 919 French, raised .. 588 arrowroot 918 roast .. 615 Gruyere, batons a la 880 time for baking 127 beignets a la . . 878 Hareng (Herring) 39 diablotines a la 879 canapes de, a la Russe 245 sandwiches . . 923 filets de, a la Nignon 247 Guide for ordering food . . 34-7 beignets de, fume 895 Guinea fowl (see also Pintade) 42 laitance de, a la broche 860 roast, with cress 612 a la Lucullus 726' timbale of 586 paupiettes de 896 Gullasch (see also Goulache) 444 Haricot bean sauce 1641087 GENERAL INDEX. PAGE i-Aci; Haricot de lievre . . 535 Hominy cakes, fried 673 de mouton 405 pudding 918 Haricots flageolets a la poulette.. 641 Ilop-shoots (houblon) 644 ])anaches a la poulette 642 Hors-d’auivre (side dishes) 226-54 puree . . 210 ' adjuncts served with 40 i)lancs. . 642 a la Russe 231 a I’Amcricaine 643 a la Suedoise . . 231 a la Bechamel 643 Horse-radish butter 176 a la Bretonne 643 sauces. . 157-8 a la Lyonnaise 643 Hot Breakfast Cakes 908 potage puree aux 210 Hot sauces, varieties of . . IlO-II Haricots verts a I’Albion 642 Hot-water crust .. 136 a la Franjaise . . 643 Houblon (hop-shoots), salade de 702 a la Lyonnaise . . 643 How to make pastry roses 133 aux lines herbes 643 tammy purees and sauces 129 pois et. salade de 708 wait at table . . 995-7 sautes 642 Huitres (Oysters) a la Colbert 893 souffle de, a la Duchesse 381 a la Dubany. . 304 Hasty pudding 735 a I’Horly 893 souffles 365 a ritalienne . . 893 Hatelets (skewers) 334 a la Normande 893 for entrees 348 a la Richelieu 229 de sole a la Villeroi . . 292 a la salamandre 305 Hazelnut macaroons 958 a la Tsarine . . 855 Haunch of venison, to carve 986 a la Villeroi . . 893 Herb, green butter 176 a la Wllington 857 Herbs, aromatic 117 beignets d’ . . 303 Herring {see also Hareng) lillets rolled 896 bisque aux 206 ' pickled 971 bonnes-bouches aux. . 857 sauce for 153 bouchees aux 306 Hints on boiling vegetables 128 en brochettes 893 Hints on choosing fish, meat, en caisses a la diable 855 poultry, game, & vegetables 24-5 sur canapes . . 857 on cooking meats 125 en cassolettes 893 Hodge-podge, partridge . . 525 chaud-froid d' 232 Homard (Lobster) a I'Americaine 307 a la Montpellier 332 a la Bechamel 309 coquilles d’, a la Suedoise 855 a la gelee 317 cromeskies aux . 304 a la Gloucester 309 croquettes 855-56 a la Newbury 308 croustades aux 356 a la Suedoise. . 310 farcies 857 batons, feuilletes a 1’ 868 fricassee d’ . . 305 bisque de, Mariniere . . 205 friture d’ 857 Parisienne 20s en gelee 228 bordure de, froid 316 au gratin 857 a rindienne 315 gratinees en coquilles 854 chaud-froid de, a la diplomate 317 macaroni aux 389 coquilles de, a la Gauloise . . 309 paupiettes de saumon aux 265 cotelettes de . . 308 petites pates aux 352 croutes de 869 pm-ee aux 206 farci au gratin 30S quenelles aux 305 mayonnaise de 315 frites aux 306 mousse de 309 rissoles aux . . 365 frappee de 317 salade a la Colchester 698 pate de saumon a 1’ . . 261 a la Meuniere . . 70s pctites dormes de, a la creme 315 saumon aux . . 262 rissoles de 365 souffle aux 304 salade de 702 tartlettes aux, et caviar 228 en coquilles 702 en surprise . . 816 saute a la Dumas 309 Hure de sanglier .. 344 soufflg de, a I’aurora. . 309 saumon, a la moderne 258 a la Bourgeoise. . 307 a la proven^ale. . 263 tartines de, St. Martin 868 zephyrs de, a la Russe 234THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. io88 JCE (Glace), almond, Japanese. PAGE 1 830 1 Jambon (Ham)a la chou-croute.. PAGE 460 banana cream 831 ! a la Clemart . . 460 birds’ nests with 847 a la Francaise 460 burnt sugar . . 831 ; a la gelee 554 coffee cream . . 8321 a la Lyonnaise 460 fancy and dessert 0341 a la Marguerite 604 grape, Muscat 830 a la minute . . 899 lemon water . . 829 a la neige 899 macaroni imitations. . 831 a la polonaise 460 maraschino .. 829 a la Russe 460 melon water 831 braise au champagne 460, 605 Neapolitan 828 au Madere 608 orange water. . 829 aux nouilles 460 ]ieach water . . 829 aux tomates 892 pineapple 829 en surprise 605 strawberry cream 830 en casserole .. 604 water 830 bouilli, sauce Madere 460 vanilla cream 828 Chartreuses petites au 457 white lady 833 cromesquis au 357 Iced (glace) coffee 852 1 croquettes de, au riz 898 Vienna 853 j croutes au 862 mousse 841 i en gelee 555 Charlotte 84s 1 grille aux petits pois. . 460 fruit . . 847 mousse de 553 greengage pudding . . 836 1 CEufs brouille au 690 pears . . 814 j d’ours braise au vin de malaga 536 pineapple 835 petites bouchees de, a la raspberry mousse 840 creme 238 souffle.. 843 souffle au 458 strawberries in cups. . 839 de, a I’Espagnole 555 strawberry cake 808 souffles de, en casseroles 555 trifle • . . 803 a la gastronome 461 tea 853 a la Milanaise . . 461 Icing, chocolate .. . . 39. 813 timbales de, a la Bayonne 553 coffee .. 138 Japonais bordure a la gelee 775 for gateaux, petits fours, etc 138 a I’orientale . . 783 for gateaux au chocolat 813 Japanese almond ice 830 moka . . 809 salad . . 703 royal . . 139 Jardiniere de legumes 643 water or transparent 138 salade a la 703 Imitation glass dishes 848 Jarrets de pore a I’aHemande 460 Imperiales . . 934 Jelly (gelee), apple . 969 Indian calf’s tail souji 224 aspic or savoury 132,537 corn, in season 39 champagne .. 783 curry sauce . . 150 claret .. 783 dry curry 462 cranberry 969 pineapple salad 23s egg .. 918 Invalid dishes 910-22 fruit, mixed . . 787 fruit pie 918 kirsch, Nansen 785 toast . . 916 lemon. . 784 Irish stew . . 404 maraschino . . 785 Italian meringue . . 848 - Neapolitan . . 787 salad 703 Polish 785 port wine 785 JAMAICA toddy 982 prune . . 918 Jam-making, rules for 967 punch.. 786 sauce, for pudding Jambon (Ham) a I’.Msacienne . 730 quince 970 460 red-currant . . 969 a r.Anglaise . . 459 ribbon, Russian 786 a la Basquaise 604 strawberry . . 784 a la Bayonnaise 459 to strain 131 a la Beaucaire 608 wine .. 786 de Careme 816 Jerusalem artichokes (sec Artichauts a la Casino . . 892 and Topinambours) . . 6221089 GENERAL INDEX. PAGE ' I’Acr Jets (le Houblon (hop-shoots) 644 Lamb (Agneau) chop, grilled 916 John Dories, in season 39 cutlets (cold). . .. 538-9 Jolin Dory {see also St. Pierre), lillets . . 539 Genoese st\ le 310 neck'of (cold). . 600 Joinbalayah 898 saddle of, Duchess style 600 J ngged hare 534 Dutch style 600 Juice meat 139 shoulder of .. 599 Jumbles, lemon 950 time for baking 127 Junket, cocoanut . . 970 I.ambs’ tails a la Ru.sse . . 395 Devonshire 970 breads [see Ris d’agneau) . . 395 invalid 920 eai's (see Oreilles d’agneau) . . 398 Jus (gravy) 151 Langonste, escalopes, cardinal . . 310 d’Orange, sauce au . . 156 potage de 223 Langues (Tongues) 598 IT ALE, in season . . Kari de volaille a la Mad 39 d'agnean a la Duxelle 397 ras 493 de boeuf braisee 598 Karloys d’Astrachan 718 a la llamande . . 453 Kedgeree au paprika 89 c; a la gelee 544 of cold meat . . . 1 902 aux epinards 447 smoked haddock 895 au gratin 453 Kidney (Rognon), curried 901 au parmesan 453 grilled. . 406 a la romaine 453 with mushrooms 406 Langues de chat (biscuits) 938 omelet 680 I>angues de mouton a la Dren.x . . 409 (pienelles 362 en Chevreuil 409 sheep's, in cases 405 i)raisees a la Fran^aise.. 409 and tomatoes. . fi/5 grillees a la Suisse 409 Kir.sch, gelee an, a la Nansen 78s aux olives 409 punch au 851 panees . . 409 sauce au 171 en papillotes 409 Kish au Parmesan a la Pouard 880 petites, a I’Espagnole . . 545 Kitchen, the, construction and de pore, a ritalienne 460 management of . . 44-8 a la Lyonnaise . . 460 economics 51-3 Lapereau (wild rabbit) . . 506 floors and walls 46 cotelettes de .. 506 furniture 46 cro([uettes de, a la Maintenon 506 order and forethought in 48 frits a la Tartare 506 ventilation of 48 Lapin (Rabbit) a la Catalane 505 scullery work of 49 darioles de, a la reine 50s Kniokis a la lt.omaine 384 frit a la Tartare 504 Kohl-rabis (choux-raves) <■>35 gibelotte de . . 504 Kromeskis (see Cromeskis). a la Bourguignonne 505 Krona pepper 116 petits souffles de 505 Lait, cafe au 965 potage de, a I’Oseille 216 punch an 851 Lard, how to choose 37 sonpe au 219 Lard-petit (bacon) salade au 715 vermicelli au, potage de 225 Larder, the 50, Laitances (roe) a la diable 860 Larks (Mauviettes) in savoury jelly S84 a I’Ecossaise . . 860 pie, raised 512 a la Janette . . 860 Pompadour style 512 a la Tzarina . . 860 roast . . 615 de cabillaud, croutes de, Madras 860 stuffed 512 de harengs a la broche 860 timbales, small 513 de hareng a la Lucullus 726 (See a’so Mauviettes) Laitue aux oeufs et anchois 237 Lax, Duchesses de, a la Haakon. . 870 Laitues (lettuces) a la Genoise 887 filets de, a la diable . . 870 braisees au jus 644 fume aux concombres 252 feuilles de, au.x crevettes 233 Leg of mutton, to carve . . 986 feuilles de, a I’Americaine 237 or loin of pork, to carve 984 pains de 644 Legumes (Vegetables) . ..617-67 salade de 704 chartreuse de, a la Quirinal 374 Lamb (Agneau) .. .. 30. 39- 41. 43 jardiniere de .. 643 boned and braised . . 396-7 macedoine de 411 braised 395 salade de, a laJLyonnaise . . '7151090 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. PAGE PAGE Leghorn sauce • 167 Lievre (Hare) en gite 535 Leeks (poireaux), devilled 648 greuadius de . . 535 fritters 649 a la Hanoverienne 532 gratin style . . 648 haricot de 535 omelet 677 longe de, a la Soubise 535 Lemon biscuits 951 mousse de 532 cake .. 950 pate (see Pate de lievre) 533 caramel cream 771 rable de, a la mode . . 534 curd for lemon cheese cakes 975 a la Saint-Denis 536 granite 852 rotie . . 615 jelly 784 terrine de, a la Stephanie 536 jumbles 950 turban de, a la bohemienne 533 marmalade .. 969 Limande (flounder) a la Janin . 269 meringues, English . . 936 en souchet 270 and orange rinds 979 Liquid caramel 129 pudding 731 Little surprise nests 252 rings 952 Liver (Foie), calf’s, braised 418 sauce .. 172 fried 418 sorbet.. 849 stewed . . 418 souffle 744 chicken, souffles 372 squash 982 digestion of . . 43 water ice 829 goose, scallops 572 whey .. 920 Lobster (Homard). . .. 25,39,43 (See also Citron) 120 American style 307 I.emonade .. 920 in aspic 317 American 981 baked. Bechamel 309 Lentils (Lentilles), omelet 680 border of 316 savoury 907 butter . . . . 171 soup .. 210 creamed 308 French . . 21 I croutes, fried 869 Lentiles (Lentils) en fricassee 643 croquettes 308 omelette aux 680. cutlets 308 potage de, a la brunoise 223 in aspic . . 314 puree de 210, 643 (cold) 333 Lettuce (Laitue) .. 37,39 fingers 868 braised 644 Gloucester style 309 and cucumber sandwiches 926 mayonnaise of 315 with eggs and anchovies 237 mousse 309 leaves with lobster . . 237 iced 317 salad .. 704 omelet 679 Contoise.. 699 puffs . . 868 sandwiches .. 926 puree for fillets of soles 28'; timbales 644 salad . . 702 Leverets, in season 39 in shells . . 702 time for baking 127 and salmon sandwiches 922 I.evraut (leveret) frit a I'Orly 534 stuffed, au gratiu 308 Liaisons in general 104. 123 in shells 309 arrowroot 106 souffle 309 blood . . 106 Swedish fashion 310 butter and cream 105 I.og cake or Yule cake 928 kneaded.. 106 Loin of veal, to carve 984 egg los f.ong pepper 116 roux .. 105 Longe de chevreuil a la tomate. 535 Lievre (Hare) a I’autrichienne 532 de lievre a la Soubise 535 bordure de, a la bergere 587 de mouton en chevreuil 409 boudins de, a la Richelieu 352 de pore farcie 608 civet de, a la bordelaise 531 de veau a la Frau9aise 602 a la finnoise 535 a la Genevoise . . 602 cotelettes de, a I’AHemande. . 535 Losanges a la Baltimore . . 870 escalopes de, marinees 535 Lyons sauce ... 167 farci a la fermiere 535 sausage 228 etouffe .. 616 MACARONI a la Calabfaise . 878 filets de, a la Sicilienn 535 a la Dieppoise 669 florentines de 535 a ritalienne . , 669GENERAL INDEX. roQi Macaroni ;i la Milanaise .. 66g a la Rivoli 383 a la Rossini . . 668 a la Sicilienne 669 bacon and 897 beignets de . . 670 croquettes 669 croustades de 356 an gratin 669 aux luutres . . 389 minced beef and 902 savoury, with ham ■ . . 897 shape, with sweetbread 367 tartelettes de 878 Macaroon paste 136 almond 951 chocolate 951 cocoanut 951 hazel nut 958 Mace IIS Macedoine a la bechamel 643 a la printaniere 643 de fruit a la gelee 787 de legumes 411 of v^egetables 411 Mackerel (see fl'su Maquereaux; . . 274 devilled fillets of 274 Bonlognese style 274 fillets of, Indian style 275 Madeira cake .. 24, 39, 40, 43, 929 Madere, croutes an 769 sauce .. 151 Madeleine, glace (ice) 833 paste . . 137 Madeleines d’Espagne 948 Madras fritters 871 Madrid mousse 842 Maids of honour . . 945 Maigre soups . . . . 200, 202-3 Maize fritters 375 in season 39 Maltese sauce 167 Mandarin salad 712 Manhattan (drink) 982 Maquereau (Mackerel) boulonnaise 274 Idets de, a la diable . . 274 a la Bonnefoy . . 274 a rindienne 275 a la maitre d’hotel 274 au gratin 275 an persil 275 an vin blanc 275 en papillote 275 Marasquin (maraschino), gelee au 785 glace an 829 pains d’abricot au . . 792 sorbet de groseilles au 849 parfait au 842 Marble or Parisian potatoes 655 Marcassin (ymung wild boar)— farci anx truffes 608 Marinade . . 130 cuite . . ^ 54 pickle 130 Mai'joram . . Marketing . . Marmalade, lemon orange sauce . . Marmite stock, how to make Marmites, petites, Parisienne Marquises, an Parmesan . . petites, a la Snisse . . Matrons (Chestnuts)— Irordure de, a la Chantillv chasseur, puree de an chocolat . . a la diable glaces an jus an moka ponding aux . . de, a la Creole soufite de timbale de, a I’imperatrice Marrow, digestion of pudding, baked Marsh mallows Martini cocktail . . Marzipan almond paste almonds biscuits dates . . fruit . . paste . . rolls . . Mashed potatoes . . Masking of moulds Matelote de cervelle de vean sauces Mauviettes (Larks) a I'aspic a la bonne femme a la Lucullus . . a la Marianne a la Minute . . a la Normande a la Parmentier a la Pompadour a la rentiere . . bardees roties farcies a la Madrid . aux truffes pate de, a I’Anglaise. chaud de petit timbales de St. Hubert, potage de Ma.ximilian sauce Mayonnaise aspic de celeri et noi.x of crayfish of eggs de homard salad dressing or sauce Suedoise de tomates . . de turbot a la moderne de volaille a la Keine .\lexaiidra 564 Meat, choice of, etc. .. 20, 24-5 ^3-37 969 968 173 96-7 182 879 879 774 955 891 954 644 804 733 734 745 805 43 735 963 981 958 960 958 960 958 960 962 649 132 413 52, 167 584 514 14. 584 513 513 513 512 512 514 615 514 514 588 512 513 223 167 142 712 243 907 315 152 237 153 3241092 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. PAGE 125 107 902 140 977 43 125 25- 35 139 93 26- 33 973 139 214-18 127 902 a Sirdar 816 de ponlarde a la Reine Alexandra 477 ites 39 Meat, cold, liow to warm up essences, for sauces gateau, cold . . glaze, to to keep . . hashed, digestion of hints on cooking choosing. . juice . . loss in cooking methods of cutting n potted pounding &c., purees time-table for baking or fish patties Medaillons de peches Gauloise de volatile a la careme chevaliere a I’imperiale Medlars, in season Melon (melon) a I’lmperiale . cantaloup glace au salade de Melettes (sprats) fr Menus (Bills of Fare)— Alexandra’s, Queen, dinner Alexandre Dumas’ . . American breakfast . . dinner luxe . . ancient and historical Ancient English April . . Austrian court dinner autograph autumn specimen bachelors’ supper ball suppers . . Bavarian court dinner breakfast, simple buffet and supper buffet, refreshments. . Christmas dinner luncheon (17th century) for large dinners cold collation and ball construction of coronation. King Edward Vlf county ball . . . . 1049, 1053 Dejeuner, royal . . . . 1012 dinner in French and English 1013 dinner specimen . . 1014-23 Edward Vlf., court . . .. 1029 Emperor Charles V.’s . . 1044 English family, for a week.. 1007 February .. .. .. 1003 gala dinner given in honour of the King and Queen of Sweden . .-■ . . . . 1005 723 478 S6i S6i 39 234 40, 234 831 234 302 1031 1051 1042 1042 1041 1043-49 1043 1004 1031 1051 1020 1050 1024, 1026 1033 1007 1025 1027 1023 1045 1005 1026 1001 1034 (040 1028 1009 1034 1030 1043 fOi7 1028 1010 1030 1017 1004 1043 1017 1018 1048 1039 1031 1024 1043 1028 Menus (Bills of Fare)— George IV., a, dinner (1824) high tea hints on courses Italian King’s court (linner King of Hanover’s Lenten dinner lunch and picnic basket luncheon, specimen . . luncheon to the late King Carlos, of Portugal maigre, specimen March, a Marechal de Richelieu meatless, specimen . . Mi-care me militant dinner Napoleon III., authentic Norwegian court dinner opera supper. . old-fashioned and historical picnic basket. . Prince of Wales’dinners 1030, 1033 Prince Charles of Hohenlohe, grand dinner (1771) .. 1038 Prince Louis de Bourbon Conde .. .. .. 1048 quaint and humorous . . 1045 Queen Victoria’s last state banquet, June 28, 1900 .. 1000 race luncheon to King Edward 71031 Royal dejeuners,England and 1 Norway, England and .\ustria . . . . . . 1012 Royal wedding-breakfast 1035-36 Russian court dinner . . 1034 Skeleton of a dinner menu . . 1001 Spanish court dinner 1030, 1032 specimens of .. .. .. 1015 specimen, with quotations . . 1052 spring dinner ^ .. 1015-16 State ball, Norwegian court 1033 summer .specimen dinner . . 1019 supper party. . .. .. 1025 theatre supper . . . . 1024 University dinner, a. . .. 1045 vegetarian dinners . . . . 1018 wedding breakfast of the Prince and Princess of Wales . . . . . . 1035 wedding reception . . . . 1027 week’s menus at a glance .. 1007 week’s, a, dinner, in French 1008 Welsh, with translation . . 1050 winter specimen dinner . . 1022 Meringnage, Sicilienne .. . . 759 Meringued cakes . . . . . . 931 Meringues .. .. .. .. 935 a la Chantilly .. .. 816 auxamandes.. .. .. 936 au citron .. . . . . 936 aux pistaches .. .. 936 pommes, a la creme. . .. 790GENERAL INDEX. 109.1 Merlan (Whiting) a i’Aiigiaise . . a ritalienne . . hicts cie, a ia comtesse a i'Oriy .. frits a ia Tyroiienne an gratin a la juive a la maitre d’hotel frit a la Fraii9aise a la Richelieu . . quenelles de, Joiuville souffle de Merluche fume (smoked haddock), croutes de talmouses de. . timbale de, Milanaise Mexicaine glace . . Mexican custard . . Mignonette pepper Mignonnes cotelettes, a la tomate Mignons, filets, a la Beaufremont de filet de boeuf aux bananes a la Castelaine . . a la Dauphine . . a la Genoise a la Rothschild. . en chaud-froid . . de vean a la Princesse . . Miianais, dessert biscuits Milanese souffle Milk (Lait) baked boiling boiled, for coffee bread and scones. . porridge . . puddings Mille-feuilles, gateau Mincemeat. . pudding Mince pies . . Minced beef, macaroni and mutton Mint (menthe) sauce . . . . . . 154, julep . . Mirabelles en surprise, creme de. . Mirepoix .. . . . . 87, 106, Mirette, salade Miroton de ris de veau en cocotte Mixed soups Mock turtle soup, thick . . (clear) consomme . . Moelle de boeuf (beef marrow), • rissoles a la petites caisses de Moka (coffee), beignets au custard for filling eclairs gateau au glace au icing for gateaux marrons au . . Montpellier butter Morilles, potage de 223 Morue (salt cod), brandade de . . 273 Mosaic de foie-gras a la diplomate 570 Mosaique, creme . . 780 Moscovitc aux mandarines 817 Mould, chocolate . . 824 fat for buttering 128 how to clean . . 49 how to mask or coat. . 132 how to unmould 128 Moulds, imitation glass (ice) 848 Monies (mussels), a la Californie. . 302 a la Roulette . . 302 Mousse a rAlsacieune 746 au cafe 841 au cura9ao 841 de caneton a la Tivollier 578 etjambon 724 de chapon a la Belle Helene. . 565 de foie-gras a I’Ancienne 575 a la Reine (petites) 576 de fraises a la neige . . 799 a I’Americaine . . 842 aux framboises 746 a la Georgette . . 799 a la neige 799 frappee. Prince Piickler 841 de gibier a la lion d’or 531 de homard 309 frappee . . 317 de jambon 553 en gelce . . 555 de lievre 532 a la Madrid . . 842 au Marasquin 842 of chestnut, iced . . ... 799 of pear 841 of raspberry . . 799 iced 840 of strawberry 799 a la Nansen . . 842 aux poires 841 de saumou a la cardinal 260 a la sultane . . 842 Mousseline de cabillaud . . 272 de chapon en caisses 562 de gelee Napolitaine. . 787 gateau 943 pudding , 735 sauce . . 172 Mousselines de caneton a la Moresco . . 576 de ris de veau a la Harlequin 549 Mouton [see also Mutton)— carbonades de, a la Chartreuse 406 a la Nantaise . . 398 carre de, braise aux nouilles 598 casserole de, a I’Anglaise 406 cotelettes de (sec Cotelettes de) 398 epaule de, farcie 598 a la Saint Menehould . . 408 escalopes de, a la Chipolata. . filets (le, braises, a r.\ngalise 408 408 a la Byron 408 294 ^94 29s 29i 294 293 294 295 294 29s 294 294 862 861 313 833 769 116 569 438 439 439 439 440 441 542 417 949 798 19 919 978 965 919 935 919 734 813 822 735 822 902 916 118 168 981 780 124 706 360 102 217 204 365 352 766 943 933 832 809 S04 175THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1094 Mouton, Filets de, a la Gascogne PAGE 408 a la Tyrolienne . . 403 Pre-Sale au, Primeurs 402 gigot (leg) de, bouilli a I’An- glaise 601 braise a la Bretonne 598 a la Soubise 601 a la Turque 601 a la Nesselrode. . 601 roti 599 en chevreuil 601 hachis de, a I’Ecossaise 408 a la Portugaise 408 langues (tongues) 409 longe de, en chevreuil 409 noisettes de Maintenon 409 de Pre-Sale a la Chatelaine. . 409 ])ieds de, a I’fmlienne 409 a la Poulette 409 a la Roueiinaise 409 a la Villeroi 410 farcis et braises. . 409 frits a I’Orly 409 a la tartare 409 queues de, a la Fraii9aise 410 ragout de 405 rognons de, a la Chinoise 405 a I’epicurienne . . 410 ,a la Turbigo 410 aux fines herbes 410 panes 410 sautes a la Frau9aise . . 410 selle de, a la Castillane 601 a la jardiniere . . 601 a la Milanaise . . 601 Pre-Sale, belle-alliance. . 601 Mulberries, in season 39 Mullet (rouget) in season 39 Muscatel grape ice 830 Muscovite aux Mandarins 817 Musettes d’agneau a la Fran9aise 601 Mushrooms (Champignons) 37, 39, 43 bottled 975 to chop 123 croustades 887 devilled 633 dried . . 977 forcemeat 457 under glass shade 889 ' to keep 978 Montglas style 633 omelet 679 I'rovence style 375 in white sauce 632 stew . . 375 stewed, fresh 633 ■ sweet dish 938 stuffings 457 Mussels, California style . . 302 poulette style 302 sauce . . 168 Mustard (moutarde) 115 Mutton (Mouton) .. .. 28,29,41,43 boiled 596 I'ACE Mutton (Mouton) braised leg of 598 neck of .. . . . . 598 broth . . . . .. . . 220 to carve . . , . .. 984-6 chop, grilled .. .. 915 cutlets . . . . , . 541 essence .. .. 911 mode of cutting up . . . . 29-30 fillets . . . . . . . . 402 haricot . . . . . . 405 minced . . . . . . 916 pie . . . . . . . . 408 roast leg of . . . . . . 599 shoulder . . .. .. 408 stuffed shoulder . . . . 598 JANSEN, mousse punch Napolitaines, a la Suisse .. Navarin d’agneau en casserole .. Navets (turnips) a la bourgeoise a la veloutee . . braises puree de, au gratin . . Neapolitan ice jelly . . raviolis sauce . . Neck of veal or mutton, to carve Nectar Nectarines (nectarines) . . Nifoise punch Nids a la chartres . . d’oiseau glaces petits en surprise Niokis a la nantua au gratin {See also Gnokis) Noel, ponding de . . Noisettes d'agneau a Tunion a la Pompadour au chou de mouton Maintenon au parmesan . . de pre-sale chatelaine de veau a la princesse Noix de boeuf a la bourgeoise et celeri, mayonnaise de bordure de, a la Monaco Normandy pudding Norwegian galantine sauce . . Nougat basket cornets de, a la creme et croquants . . Nouille or ravioli paste . . paste .. Nouilles au gratin oeufs au, a la Carola . . ’’ pouding aux . . » * roses de, pour garniture Nourishing custard Nut and tomato timbales sandwiches 842 851 818 394 645 64 s 645 645 828 787 363 168 984 981 37. 39 851 250 847 252 877 877 736 394 S39 395 409 878 409 420 453 712 389 736 S49 168 928 806 819 194 134 670 681 736 133 917 387 927GENERAL INDEX. i09S PAGE PACE megs (uoix de muscat) II4 CEufs (Eggs) a la Mireille 693 s, ginger 950 a la mode de Caen . . 690 a la Monaco . . 693 JFS (Eggs) a rAniericaine 691 a la Mornay . . 693 a I’Ancienne . . 691 a la Mosaique 693 a^rAndalouse 691 a la Nantua . . 694 a I’Arlequin . . 691 a la Nigoise . . 694 aJl’Aumale 691 a rOrleans 694 a’l’Aurore 691 a la Pache 691 a la Bearnaise 691 a la Palestine 694 a la Bedford . . 691 a la Parmentier 686 a la Belle-IIelene 691 a la Pasqual . . 691 a la Benedictine 692 a la Perigueux 694 a la Bercy 6q2 a la Portugaise 694 a la Boliemienne 692 a la Poulette . . 694 a la Boston , . 682 a la Princesse 681 a la Boucliere 692 a la Princiere 694 a la Bourguignonne . . 692 a la Ih intaniere . 386 a la Brebant . . 692 a la Kachel . . 694 a la Bresilienne 692 a la Reine Margot 694 a la Bretonne 692 a la Roniaine 694 a la Bruxelloise C92 a la Rossini . . 694 a la Careme . . 692 a la Sevigne . . 694 a la Cardinal . . 692 a la Soubise . . 694 a la Carigen . . 688 a la Suedoise . . 252 a la Carmelite 690 a la Suzette . . 681 a la Carnot . . 685 a la Tripe 689 a la Chantilly 692 a la Turbigo . . 694 a la Chasseur. . 692 a la Vatel 694 a la Chipolata 690 a la Verdi 694 a la Colbert . . 686 a la Victoria . . 694 a la Chivry 692 a la Waldimir 690 a la Clamart . . 692 a la Yvette . . 694 a la Cluny 692 a la Zingara . . 694 a la Colombine 692 d’abricots en surprise 802 a la Comtesse 691 au beurre noisette 689 a la Conde 692 bouillon aux , . 180 a la coque en surprise 691 brouilles 683 a la Courbet . . 687 a ITtalienne 690 a la Cre9y 692 alaTurque 684 a la creme de volaille 691 au jambon 690 a la Creole 690 aux anchois 683 a la Czarina . . 693 aux pointes d’asperges 683 a la Diable 693 aux truffes 683 a la Dreux 682 en chaud-froid 68s a la Duchesse 693 en cocottes 690 a I’Ecarlate . . 686 a la creme de volaille 691 a I’Elisabeth . . 693 a la coque en surprise 691 a I’Espagnole 693 cotelettes aux 690 a la Florentine 695 cromesquis aux 685 a la Forestiere 693 crot|uettes aux 685 a la Gagnor . . 688 darioles d’, a la Creyy . 386 a la Gambetta 693 epinards aux, a la vei t-pie 640 a la Garlield . . 687 epinards et, salade au.x 700 a la Hongroise 693 farcis, canapes aux .. . 248 a la Hussarde 693 aux crevettes 684 a rindienne . . 689 en feuilletage 689 a la Khedive . . 693 matelote 687 a la Lorette . . 693 fricassee d’ 682 a la Lucullus .. 693 frits au beurre noir . . 686 en Matelote . . <^87 frites a la fermiere . . 687 a la Medicis . . 689 garnis a la coquette . . 684 a la Messina . . 688 a la Volga 890 a la Milanaise 682 glaces a la Florida . . 8461096 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. PAGE lAGE (Eufs (Eggs) miroire a la princesse 684 Omelet (Omelette) fish puff 680 inollets a la bechamel 689 1 ham . . 678 aux noiiilles a la Carola 681 1 lentil . . 680 de penguin a la Carola 590 leek 677 de pluvier (plover’s eggs) ^84 j lobster 679 en aspic . . 589 ' mushroom 679 poches aubergines aux 626 , onion . . 679 a I’imperiale 691 oyster 678 a la reine 688 Parinesan 677 a la tomate 687 plain . . 675 au vin blaiic 681 puffed 761 jiyramide d’, a la reforme . . 687 rum 761 ragout d’, a la Francaise 690 sardine 679 remoulade d’ . . 252 savoury 67 s St. Jacques . . 688 puff 680 salade aux 707 spinach 679 d’, en supreme . . 707 stuffed, small 678 en surprise 802 sweet . . 760 timbales d’, a I’anclioiS 721 sweetbread . . 371 a la cardinal 722 tomato 680 vanilles a la neige . . 709 truffle 680 Oie (Goose) a I’Aiiglaise . . 472 i Omelette (Omelet) a I’Anglaise 675 a la Chipolata 472 a la Bayonne 679 a I’etouffade . . 472 1 a la Beamaise 679 a la Mont Vernon 472 a la Bernoise . . 676 a rOrange 472 a la bonne-femme 676 braisee a la daupliinoise 472 a la Celestine 761 a la polonaise .. 472 a la cervelle . . 679 sauce au celeri . . 471 a la Charentierc 676 aux chataignes 472 a la Charlotte 761 l otie larcie 612 a la Gordon . . 978 sautce a la bourgeoise 472 al’Indienne .. 679 timbales d’, aux truties 472 a la meringue 789 {See also Goose) a la Rajihael . . 677 Oignons (onions) a la demi-glace 648 a la Stephanie 762 d’espagne bouihis 648 aux anchois . . 679 braises . . 648 aux asperges . . 676 omelette aux 679 aux champignons 679 Oiseau glaces, nids d’ 843 aux concombres 679 Oil, frying in 129 aux epinards 679 stoves 63 aux fines herbes 67 s Okra aux tomates 663 aux fraises 761 Olives (Olives) 227 aux huitres . . 678 stuffed 250 aux lentilles . . 680 in aspic jelly 250 aux oignons . . 679 a la Madras . . 251 aux poireaux. . 677 a la tartare .. 251 aux rognons . . 680 de boeuf 445 aux sardines . . 679 farcies 250 aux tomates . . 680 a la gelee 250 aux truffes 680 canapes aux .. 864 au fromage . . 680 sauce aux 168 au homard 679 de veau 420 i au jambon 678 Olivette sandwiches 923 i au rhum 761 Omelet (Omelette) rules for making 674-s de ris de veau a I’Allemande 371 shaping an . . 67 s duchesse a I’ecarlate 678 turning out an 675 glacee a la Waldorf . . 853 anchovy 679 gratinees au ])armesan 677 asparagus 676 naturelle 675 brain . . 679 petites, a la marechale 677 cheese 680 savoyarde 678 cucumber 679 sucree 760 curr)' . . 679 soufflee (see Souffle, omelette) 761 Engiish 675 soufflee au poisson . . 680GENERAL INDEX-. Onions (Oignous) .. braised. Spaiiisli omelet . . to choji sauce, gratetl cheese in sauces stuffed, a la Moscovicniie Orange cake cre-am glace a 1’ (ice) giacees a la Napohtaiiio a la Portugaise . . marmalade pudding salade d’ sauce . . sorbet d’ souffles d’, a la Gilbert surprises d tartelettes aux water ice Oranges (oranges) Oreilles (Ears) d’Agueau .. a riudieuue . . a ritalieuue . . farcies frites, sauce tomate . . gratiuees de pore {see Pore, oreilles d Orge, creme d’, potage . . Orieiitale, peches . . Ortolans (ortolans) aux cerises en chaud-froid poches a la Delinonico Oseilie (sorrel), potage a 1’ puree d’ Osmazome . . Oven, roasting Ovens, various Ox-brain, fried Ox-palate {see Palais de Bceut) Ox-tail {see Queues de Boeuf Ox-tongue (Langue de boeuf), to to carve braised, with spinach with jell}^ (cold) shapes (cold) souffles (cold) Ours (Bear) cuissot a la Cussy tricot d’, a la chasseur jambon d’, braise, an niala^ Oysters {see also Huitres) baked, gratin in shells. . breaded broth .. ca.ssolettes ; . chaud-froid . . cocktail croquettes and ham croquettes devilled in cases forcemeat I18-10 648 679 123 977 S6, 168 443 932 781 829 S06 839 968 742 717 849 745 763 946 829 39. 43 398 398 398 398 398 398 460 212 802 36, 39 515 584 515 212 645 95 83 85 450 453 446 boil 974 987 447 544 545 545 536 536 536 , 226 854 305 911 893 856 855 855 972 Oysters, fried fritters grilled jellied., kromeskis omelet patties a la poulette . . quenelles fried larebit Russian salad, Colchester sauce . . and celery salad scalloped souffle. . stew, white . . stewed Normandy stuffed tartlets with caviare tit-bits on toast pAILLES a la Yarmouth au Parmesan . . pommes (straw potatoes) Paillettes au Parmesan .. Pains d’abricots au Marasquiii d’epice de foie-gras . . a la Georges Sand de foie, consomme au de fraises de laitues noir (brown bread), ponding perdu . . de irerdreaux a la dauphine a la menager de semoule a la tomate de volatile a I’Argenteuil a la creme a la Creole Pains or Darioles (Petits) a la Uu aux asperges . . de cailles de crevettes . . de foie-gras . . de fraises de gibier a la Chevalier de volatile a la creme Paisley rolls Palais de Bceaf (O.x-palate), grille a rOrly . . jjorc gratine Palestine or artichoke soup Palets de dames . . Palinettes a la Gambetta . . de caviar ' de volatile a la Valeska Palmiers d’ecrevisses Panachee glace en surprise 857 303 893 228 304 678 306 yi2 305 306 857 855 698 150 705 896 304 305 912 893 857 856 228 857 857 881 881 652 S81 792 937 361 574 203 791 644 737 769 527 527 671 569 361 492 361 62; 36i 320 361 791 ^86 361 950 453 453 461 214 952 361 850 563 244 834THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. [098 Pancakes (Crepes), to fry French spinach . . batter. . fritters Russian Panade, for forcemeat, &c. bread Paniers, petits, a la jardiniere Pannequets a la mancelle an confiture . . Moscovite Papillots d’esturgeon rougets en de .=;aumon . . de veau a la Maintenon Paprika butter kedgeree an . . souffles au Parfait d’ananas a la Tostini de biscuit en gelee . . au cafe de foie-gras . . a la Neluski . . au Marasquin a la printaniere Parisienne potatoes Parmentier croquettes Parmesan, biscuits au boules au croutons fonclu souffle au gaufres au kish au, a la Pouard Marquises au . . noisettes au . . omelettes gratinees au pailles au a la Yarmouth . . paillettes petites gondoles au . . quenelles au . . sardines au . . soles au Parsley (Persil) butter., chopped fried . . sauce . . Parsnips, in season Partridge (Perdreau), braised to carve chaud-froid of crapaudine st}de cutlets' galantine hodge-podge . . with mushrooms pie roast, English style . . Spanish style. . souffle.. time for baking Paste (Pate), almond 768 768 874 135 768 875 123 177 64 s 753 768 875 314 296 260 421 176 89s 885 755 815 842 571 842 842 842 652 428 890 880 180 88s 883 880 879 878 677 881 881 880 863 276 117 175 123 122 151 39 524 989 585 614 524 584 525 523 525 615 614 526 128 '36-7 I'AGE 136 137 '36 135 133 134 134 958 136 134 194 133 134 133 928-63 133 904 578 Paste (Pate) anchovy brioche cassolette choux.. culinary duchess lor lining tartlets marzipan almond macaroon nouille nouille or ravioli puff rough puff or half-puff short crust . . Pastry and confectionery Pastry roses, how to make Pate (Pie) a la Mirliton . . a la Strasbourgeoise. . de mauviettes a I'Anglaise . . 588 de becassines a I’Anglaise .. 518 de cailles et ris de veau . . 522 chaud de mauviettes . . 512 de dinde en volaille . . .. 556 de gibier . . . . . . 589 de lievre a I’Anglaise . . 588 a la Cumberland . . 533 a la Fraii9aise .. . . 588 de perdreaux. . .. .. 525 de pigeon a I'Anglaise . . 476 Pates (petits) a la Joinville .. 352 aux alouettes . . .. 352 aux cailles . . . . 352 de crevettes . . . . . . 867 de huitres .. .. .. 352 a rAgrasienue . . . . 876 de poisson a I’Americaine .. 311 a la mariniere . . . . 311 de saumon a I’liomard . . 261 Pate (Paste) d’amandes .. .. 136 a brioche .. .. .. 137 brisee a I’anchois .. .. 136 a choux . . .. . . 135 afoncer .. .. •• '33 a frire '35 duchesse , . . . . • • '34 Madeleine . . . . • ■ '37 nouilles . . . • ■ • ' 34 d’office . . . . • • 133 a pate . . • • ■ • 136 Patties (Petits pates), asparagus.. 624 chicken .. .. 35^ fish, Swedish.. .. . . 306 ,, or meat . . . . • • 902 oyster. . . . . . • • 306 prawn, small. . .. •. 867 turkey or chicken .. . . 556 Paupiettes de boeuf a la Richelieu 454 de filets de soles a la Richelieu 277 de harengs . . .. •• 896 de saumon a la Regence . . 263 a la Reine . . • • 261 aux huitres . . • • 263 de soles a la Ni9oise . . .. 278 I’empereur . . ■ . 2781099 GENERAL INDEX. I’AGK Paupiettes de Soles Alexandra 292 de veau 421 Pauvre homme salad 716 Peaches (peches), iu season 39 Pea nuts, salted . . 891 Pears (poires), in season . . 39 border of 748 iced .. 814 Marquise style 748 mousse 841 Peas (pois) (see also green peas, petits pois). . . . 37, 39, 42-3 preserved, to heat up 667 pudding 971 puree of 224 Peches (Peaches) a la cardinal 800 a la Melba 801 a la Montreuil 801 a la Montrose 800 a la Ninette . . 802 a la Piemontaise 754 a la Pompadour 802 bavarois aux. . 772 biscotins aux. . 801 creme aux 781 compote de . . 795 coupes de, a la Keine 838 dartois de 754 gateau de, a la Rejane 825 glace aux 829 medallions de, a la Sirdar 816 orientale 802 au riz meringue 753 salade de 800 timbales de, Marie-Louise 759 turban de, a la raoderne 80J Penguin, oeufs de, a la Carola 590 Pepper (Poivre) .. 116 Cayenne 116 Krona 116 long 116 mignonette . . 116 pot 903 sauce . . 157 Perch, in season . . 39 Perdreaux (Partridge) a la Bateliere 326 a la Beauharnais 526 a la Bernoise. . 526 a la Cedard . . 526 a la Chantilly. . 326 a la chasseur. . 326 a la crapaudine 614 a la Danoise . . 526 a la Gambetta 526 a la Pompadour 527 ballotine de, souvaroff 585 blancs aux olives 327 braisees aux choux .. 524 Celestines de. . 524 en casserole . . 326 aux champignons 523 chartreuse de 527 chaud-froid de 585 coquilles de . . 354 Perdreaux cotelettes de,a la l'man9ier croquettes de rotis a I’Anglaise . . * . . a I’Espaguole . . diets de, a la marechale a la princesse . . galantine de . . jeunes, rotis sur socle pains de, a la daupliine a la meiiager pate de potage de salade de, a la carpentras . . salmi de, a la cliasseur aux truffes aux olives souffle de, a I’Auglaise Perdrix blanche (ptarmigan), a la regeiice Perles a la Gruyere Persil (parsley) frit hache . . Persillade sauce Petits bateaux a repicurienne . . Petites bouchees a I'Astrachan . . a la Caroline a la Bardalouse. . a la reiiie a la Suedoise de j ambon a la creme . . Petites chartreuses au j ambon . . Petits choux a la Lorraine a la Suedoise en surprise Petites cremes a I’ecarlate a la Mulhouse . . de faisan de poisson aux olives . . Petites croustades a la Medicis . . a la Milanaise . . Petites darioles a la Gauloise Petites croutes a la Colmar de caviar au fromage Petites dormes de liomard a la creme Petits filets de veau a la Garibaldi Petits gateaux Pitliivier Petites gondoles a I’anchois Petites marmites . . Petits fours d’amandes . . icing for. . Petits Pois (Green Peas) . . a la Basquaise . . a la bonne femme a la Flainande . . a la Nantaise a la Romaine au beurre de conserve cornets aux au j ambon a la Frangais sale Piemontaise Petits souvaroffs . . Petoncles (scallops) a la Ih'ovencale 615 614 527 527 584 615 527 527 525 217 708 527 527 527 526 S26 885 122 123 169 859 350 238 350 350 306 238 457 371 876 876 358 575 583 719 872 553 724 863 239 87S 315 416 94.1 866 956 957 64 s 646 646 646 647 647 646 646 388 647 459 955 301THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1 lOO Petoiicles (scallops) bisque de 206 Pigeons (Pigeons) a la nivernaise 476 eii fricassee . . 301 a la polonaise . . . . 474 au gratin 301 a la Sainte-Menehould 476 Pheasant (Faisan).. 36, 39,43 a la Talleyrand 477 border of 507 a la Villageoise 477 braised, with cabbage 507 ballotines de, a la finaiifiere 475 chestnuts 508 braisee a la Valence .. 473 chartreuse of S8i de Bordeaux a la Godard .. 474 creams, little. . 583 en casserole a la Beige 473 croquettes 900 a la royale 474 fillets, with spinach . . 510 chartreuse de, a la Rouennaise 475 forcemeat 178 compote de, a I’Americaine 475 in savoury jelly 58 ’ a la bourgeoise . . 476 roast . . 612 a la rentiere 476 in terrine 308 aux pointes d’asperges 476 timbales of .. 583 en supreme . . 476 time for baking 128 cotelettes de {see Cotelettes de) 476 Piccalilli 977 en matelote . . 476 Picking or plucking birds 126 farcis a la princesse . . 474 Pickle for beef or jrork 130 en papillotes . . 476 Marinade 130 pate de, a I’Anglaise ponding de, a I’Anglaise 476 Pickled herrings . . 971 477 Pickling, dry 130 sautes aux salsifits . . 473 Pie (Pate), cheese, baked . . 908 timbales de, a la supreme .. 475 fish, American 311 how to truss .. 126 fruit, invalid 918 time for baking 128 hare . . 588 Pig’s cheek 34 lark 5 12, 588 feet, with duxelle puree 457 mirliton or cold meat 904 grilled and stuffed 459 partridge 525 foot, stuffed 457 pigeon, English 476 Pike (brocket) in season . . 39 quail and sweetbread 522 Pilau a la Turque 362 raised, fish 311 or pillaw a I’lndienne 362 game 589 Pilaw fish, Turkish 909 hare 533 Pillaff de volaille .. 497 French .. 588 Pimiento butter . . 177 Strasbourg 578 Pinch of salt or pepper, meaning of 116 Roman 904 Pineapple charlotte 794 salmon 261 souffle 741 shepherd’s 903 cream . . 778 steak and kidney 447 fritters 766 veal and ham 433 ice 829 Piece de boeuf braisee a la vert-pre 596 iced 835 Pieds de cochon a la Perigord 459 julep . . 981 a la Sainte-Menehould 461 salad . . 235 de mouton a I’lndienne 409 savarin 756 a la Poulette 409 tart, French . . 755 a la Rouennaise 409 Pines, St. Michael’s, in season 39 a la Villeroi 410 Pintade (see also Guinea fowl)— farcis et braises 409 rotie au cresson 612 frits a r Orly 409 timbale de, a la marechale . . 586 frites a la Tartare 409 Pintail, in season . . 39 de pore [see Pore, pieds de) 457 Pistachios, to peel 131 beignets de pied de veau 349 Pistaches (pistachios) Charlotte russe 793 de veau (calf’s feet) a I’Orly 422 meringues au. . 936 a la poulette 422 Plaice (plie) .. .. 39,41,43 a la vinaigrette . . 422 Plain salad mixture 713 en fricassee 422 stuffing 972 frits a la Tyrol ienne 422 Planked chicken . . 909 potage de 225 fish 908 Pigeons (Pigeons).. 9. 42,43 lobster 909 a la crapaudine 476 Salisbury steak 909 a I’Espagnole. . 476 sirloin steak, with oysters .. 909 a la Marigny . . 476 Planking food 908T TOT GENERAL INDEX. Plats d'a'ufs {sec ICgg dishes) . . 681 Idaats, aromatic . . . . 11 7~:o Plombierc glace, a la Japonaise. . 830 Plovers (Pluviers), compote of . . U6 cutlets in cases 529 eggs .. in .‘■avoury jelly S«9 salmi of 529 Plums, ill season . . .19 Pluviers (Plovers) compote Monaco 116 dores, a la Marianne 516 a la Martini .115 cotelettes de, on caisses 5-^9 mufs de 2 34 en aspic . . 589 salmi de, a la chasseur 529 Poached eggs (CKufs poches) in milk 916 with egg plant 626 tongue 686 tomato sauce 687 in white wine. . 681 Queen’s style. . 688 Peelce ponlarde a la Bergere 608 Poeler cooking process 87-8 Pointes d’asperges (Asparagus points)— a I’Argenteuil 626 a la Sevillieiine 626 consomme 203 croquettes de 623 oeufs broil illes aux . . 683 ragout aux 623 a la royale 623 Poireaux (Leeks) a la diable 64S puree de,- a la creme . . 2 12 ail gratin 648 fritot de 649 omelette aux. . 677 Poires (Pears) a la Florentine . . 813 a la Hirondelle 814 a la Paillard . . 746 a la priiicesse. . 814 a la Sicilienne 748 bordure de, a la reine 748 compote de, an Porto 796 en surprise 840 glacees 814 mousse aux . . 841 ail riz a la marquise . . 748 pyramide de, a la Conde 747 Pois (Peas) cotelettes St. Germain .173 et haricots verts, salade de . . 708 nouveaux, .souffle aux 382 coquilles de, a la Suedoise . . 381 verts puree de 647 souffle de 648 Poisson (Fish) coquilles de 303 croquettes de 311 farce de 177 pate de {see Pate de poissoii) 311 pouding de . . 312 quenelle de, farce a . . 177 staudines de, a la Russe 314 timbales de, a la Marigny . . 312 vol-aii-veiit de, a la Chambord 313 Poitriiie d’agneau {.•;ce Agacau). de veau a la Milaiiaise 603 farcie 602 Poivrons d’espagne 250 Polish fritters 767 jelly 785 salad . . 716 sauce . . i6g Pomegranates, in season . . 39 Pommes (.Apples) a la Conde 7ST a la dnehesse 751 a la Lexington 7.SO a la neige 750 a la Portugaise 7S' beignets de . . 763 an beurre 749 casserole de, an riz . . 750 charlotte de . . 752 chartreuse de, a la princesse 777 compote de, a la creme 795 etouffees a la polonaise 75' gateau de, a la Bavaroise 810 grisette de 751 meringuees a la creme 790 roties a la ]iolonaise . . 75' tarte aux 822 Pommes de Terre (Potatoes)— Chateau 651 frites a la Julienne .. 636 gigolette 654 hacliees au gratin 636 nouvelles a la Hollandaise . . 636 sautes au beurre 656 pailles 632 Parisienne 652 puree . . 649 ri.ssolees 638 sautees a la Parisienne 657 a la Suisse 657 souffles 663 de, a la St. Louis 654 a r.Autrichienne 655 a la Bovin 636 a la Bigiion . . 630 a la Bordelaise 639 a la bourgeoise 639 a la Brabamjonne 659 a la Bretonne 639 a la Chancerelle 655 a la Chateaubriand .. 6_39 a la Colbert . . 639 a la Comtesse 639 a la crapaudine 632 a la Dieppoise 659 a la doria 653 a la duchesse 650 a la Garfield . . 659 a la gastronome 650 a la Hanovrienne 639 a la Hongroise 659 a I’imperatrice 660 a ritalienne . . 660 a la Joinville. . 63S a la maitre d’hotel . . 660no2 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Pommes de Terre, a la Mignonette a la Milanaise a la Mont Dore a la mousseline a la Nantaise. . a la Navarraise a la Paysanne a la rentiere . . a la Suedoise.. a la Torque . . a la Vaudoise. . a la Viennoise a la Villageoise a la Worlitz . . allumettes Anna . . bordure de . . en copeaux .. croquettes de a la dauphine . . a la moderne cromeskis a la Jackson a la Rouennaise en puree a la Jackson etouffees a la Haye . . farcies aiix lines herbes frisees. . au gratin machees melangees au nid. . noisettes persillees poisson puree de en puree a la Jackson quenelles de . . salade des soufllees sweet dish (imitation) timbale de, a la Mirette aux tomates a la Savarin . . Popcorn candy to prepare Popidar accompaniments Pore (Pork), braise, carre de carbonade de, a la Fraii9aise carre de {see Carre de pore) . . cervelles de, a la demi- glace a ITtalienne cotelettes de . . cotes de, a la diplomate lilets de, a la Perigueux gigot de, a la Hongroise bouilli, a I’Anglaise roti jarrets de, marine a I’AHemande langues de, a ITtalienne a la Lyonnaise .. longe de, farcie oreilles de, aux champignons Pore (Pork) en vinaigrette PAGE 461 en menus droits 461 frites, sauce Tartare . . 461 palais de, gratine 461 pieds de, a la Duxelle 457 a la St. Menehould 461 au champagne . . 461 en fricassee 461 sauce piquante . . 461 saucisses de, aux truffes 461 a la Lyonnaise 461 tete de {see Tete de pore).. 461 Pork (Pore) .. .. 34,39,41,45 braised leg of. . 607 breast or belly of 459 cutlets . . . . 456, 457 hllets . . 456 pickle for 130 time for baking 127 Porridge, milk 919 Port wine jelly 785 sherbert 980 Porterhouse steak a la gouffe 445 Porto, compote de poires au 796 Pot-au-feu. . 181 *Potage (Thick Soup) 221 des ambassadeurs . . 221 a I’Americaine 221 a I’Andalouse.. 221 d’anguilles a I’AUemande . . 221 a I’Argenteuil 221 Bagration 222 a la Bayonne. . 216 a la Bergere . . 221 bisque de crevettes . . 225 bonne femme 222 Bretonne 221 Castelaine 222 a la Capri 222 aux cerises . . 222 Clementine . . 222 creme d’avoine 221 d’orge 212 Sevigne . . 222 a la creme d’Avoine.. 221 SI la creme de ble vert ■ 222 Dame Blanche 222 Demidoff 214 a la Duchesse 2 I 5 Dumonteuil . . 222 a I’Ecossaise .. 222 a I’Espagnole 222 de faisan a la Diana. . 217 faubonne 21 I fausse tortue. . 217 a la favourite 222 a la gentilhomme 222 Gounod 222 de haricots blancs . . 210 Istrienne 223 a ITtalienne . . 223 a la Jackson . . 210 * See also Soups, index being in French and I English. PAGE 660 660 660 660 660 660 651 653 660 660 661 661 661 661 659 649 658 656 658 652 652 654 658 660 656 653 653 659 659 660 660 819 657 660 660 212 660 661 708 655 938 657 651 961 962 40 607 459 459 459 459 459 460 456 607 607 608 460 460 460 608 460 IGENERAL INDEX. 1103 Potage (Thick Soup) Japonaise 223 Potage (Thick Soup) Waldstein. . 225 Jeanette 223 Wellington 22 5 Judic . . 223 a la \Vindsor. . 225 Krupnick 223 Xavier 225 cle langoustes 223 Potato (Pomme-de-terre), Anna.. 649 de lapin a I’oseille 216 baked, French style. . 652 de lentilles a la Brunoise 223 boiled. . 649 a la MacMahon 219 border, fried . . 658 a la Madeleine 211 cassolettes 651 a la Marechale 223 chips . . 649 a la Marie-Louise 223 coquilles with eggs . . 906 a la Marie Stuart 223 croquettes 652 de mauviettes St. Hubert 223 crumbed 649 Mercedes 223 Doria . . 653 Montblanc 223 flakes . . 653 Montmorency 223 imitation 938 Montpensier . . 223 kromeskis 654 Morilles 223 mashed 649 Mozart 223 marble 655 d’Orleans 224 in nest 819 d’Orleans maigre 224 new, with butter 656 a I’oseille 2T2 Parisian 652 Ostendaise 224 pudding 743 Palestine 224 puff a la Parmentier 224 ribbon 656 au pauvre homme . . 223 rissoles 658 de perdreau, Grand Due 218 salad . . 708 de perdreaux. . 217 savoury 653 de pieds de veau 225 souffles 655 pluche a la Polonaise 224 stuffed 653 224 straws, fried . . 652, 656 au potiroii 213 timbale 657 Prince de Galles 222 tossed. . 657 queues de bceuf 221 Potiron (pumpkin) potage au 213 queues de veau a rindienne a la Reine 224 216 Potted meat Pouding (see also Puddings)— 973 Reine Victoria 225 a I’ambassadeur 728 Reine Wilhelmine 22 5 a I’Autrichienne Regence 224 a la Berlinoise 730 ris de veau a la reine. . 224 a la Cambaceres 729 au risotto 224 a la Cannelle . . 729 riz aux choux 224 a la Cre9y 731 Romeo 224 a la cliplomate 788 de Sante 225 a la Dresde . . 732 semoule 225 a la duchesse 732 Souveraine 224 a la Louis Napoleon . . 733 St. Cloud 224 a la Marguerite 788 a la St. Germain 210 a la Mercedes. . 734 St. Hubert . . 224 a la minute . . 735 St. Martha 224 a la Moelle 735 St. Martin 224 a la Normande 736 sultane 224-5 a Torieiitale . . 737 Suzette 224 a la Paysanue 737 738 Sylvestra 225 a la Prince Henri a la tomate maigre . . 213 a la St. Cloud . . 787 de tomate, a la St. Louis 213 a la St. Jean . . 739 aux truffes . . 225 a la Schiller . . 739 Tyrolienne 225 a la Victoria . . 740 Valencienne . . 225 a la Wellington 741 de veau 225 au chocolat . . 730 au velours 225 au chocolat meringue 731 veloute au riz 215 au citron 731 de vermicelli au lait . . 225 au miel 734 a la Vitellus . . 221 au pain noir . . 737THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 104 Pouding aux cerises aux marrons .. aux Nouilles . . d’abricot a la princesse cle Ijananes . . de cailles a I’Anglaise dc marrons a la Creole de Noel de pigeons a I’Anglaise de poisson cabinet Genevoise glace a la Reine Claude mousseline Prince George Royal Saxon.. souffle a I’ananas a rindienne a la marquise a r orange a la Parinentier 'a la Russe aux amandes aux fraises aux framboises a la Vanille .. Viennoise Poularde (Pullet) a la Dauphine a la Doria a la grand due a la Milton a la Saint Valeirtiu . . bouillie a la Turque . . braisee a la chicoree farcie a la Perigueux filets de, a I’ambassadrice medaillons de, a la Reine a la gauloise en petit deuil poelee a la Bergere . . rotie . . PAGE 730 733 736 788 728-9 523 734 736 477 312 729 733 836 735 738 738 739 741 742 836 742 743 743 741 742 742 743 740 559 480 480 480 479 480 480 480 558 477 723 608 612 Roi Edouard VII. . . soufflee a I’Orloff Poulet (see a/so Chicken & V a I’arlequin . . a la Beaulieu a la bourgeoise a la cardinal . . a la Careme .. a la chanut . . a la chivry a la Demidoff a la diable a la duchesse a la Duse a I’ecarlate a la generale . . a la Godard . . a la Heuloise a la Hongroise a rindienne . . a rinkermann al’ltalienne .. olaille 479 478 497 497 498 498 498 498 498 498 498 481 498 498 499 499 499 482 499 499 499 Poulet a I’ivoire . . a la Lathuile . . a la Livournaise a la Lyonnaise a la Mascotte a la Montmorency a la mousquetaire a la paschaline a la paysanne a la polenta . . a la Pondicherv a la printaniere a la romaine . . a la St. Cloud a la St. George a la Stanley . . a la Trianon . . a la vert-pre . . a la Vigo blanquette de, deuil bouiili a I'Estragon braise a I’Estragon Imaises aux fine herbes en casserole . . en cocotte en compote . . coquilles de, a la cardinal cotelettes de, a la Chinoise crapaudine decoupe en chaud-froid epigrammes de, aux truffes escalopes de, a I’Anglaise larci a la Reine Olga filets de, a I’imperiale aux groseilles a la Helder fricassee de . . a la chevaliere a la Havelock a la reine a la Saint Lambert frit a la dauphine a la duchesse a la Dumontier a la Juive a I’Orly . . a la tartare tomates Algerienne a la tyrolienne . a la Vaudoise . a la Versailles . a la Viennoise . a la Villeroi grille a ritalienne aux huitres . . marine frit pates de au riz gratine ' roti a la Fran9aise . saute a la Bayonnaise a la Bearnaise a la Cabello PAGE 499 499 499 499 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 501 501 500 608 499 499 459 480-1,498 482, 498 498 354 501 505 559 501 501 483 501 483 491 482 SOI SOI 501 501 498 498 498 499 500 500 ■564 483 501 SOI SOI 484 488 499 500 556 500 609 497 497 4851105 GENERAL INDEX. 728-9,823 banana a la Nansen . . TAGl! I'AGi; Poulet saute a la Carnot .. 485 Pudding (Ponding), barley custard yi/ a la Cavour 488 Berlin 730 a la chasseur . . 486 brown bread . . 737 a la Chevriot 486 carrot 731 a la Duroc 487 castle . . 73') a la fermiere 499 cornflour custard 731 a la P'lorentine . . 499 cherry 730 a la Marengo 487 chestnut 733-4 a la plombieres . . 487 chocolate 730 a la savoyarde .. 488 frosted . . 731 supreme de, Jeannette 501 Christmas or pluiu 736 timbales de, a la meridionale 502 cup 732 Poulette sauce . . 642 custard flageolets a la. . .. 642 cinnamon 729 for haricot panaches 642 Dresden 732 flageolets panaches 641 duchess 732 Poultry (Volaille) .. ■■ 35.42 finger 732 essences, for sauces . . 107 fish 896, 913 hints in choosing 35 baked 913 how to bone . . 127 light 913 pluck 126 Geneva 733 truss .. 125-6 greengage, iced 836 purees for invalids . . 916 hasty . . 735 time-table for baking .. 127-8 hominy 918 Pound almonds, to 131 honey 734 Pounding meat for forcemeat 139 Italian ice 834 Poussins (Young Chickens) 42 lemon, English 731 a la Giscour .. 502 marmalade . . 733 a la Hambourg 489 marrow, baked 735 bardes Hambourgeoise 489 mincemeat 735 a la Portugaise 489 milk . . 734 a la Turenne . . 489 motsa 734 frits a la Lyonnaise . . 489 mousseline 735 poeler a la Madrid .. 489 Normandy 736 rotis . . 610 noodle or nouille 736 Prairie hens, in season 39 orange, baked 742 Praline, souffle au chocolat 797 peas .. 971 Pralines, chocolate 962 potato 743 Prawns {see Crevettes), in season 39 primrose 738 curned 896 raspberry 742 Precieuses de fraises 764 Saxony . . ' 739 de groseilles . . 955 Snowdon 740 Pre-sale (mutton), aux Prinieurs 402 strawberry 742 selle de. Belle alliance 601 steak and oyster 447 Preserved vegetables 667 suet 970 Preserving eggs . . 977 tapioca 917 fruit . . 967 transparent . . 740 Pressed beef 543 Vienna 740 Princesse de Galles, bordure Yorkshire 970 a la 773 Puff paste . . 133 Princesses, dessert biscuits 952 Pulled bread 970 ‘‘ Proximate principles ” . . 18 Pumpkins (potiron), in season . . 39 Profiteroles, consomme aux 203 soup, French. . 213 Prunes, bordure de, a la creme 775 Punch, brandy 980 de riz aux 774 Cardinal 851 jelly 918 Christmas 980 souffles aux . . 745 claret . . 979 Prussiens or Palmiers 944 fruit . . 980 Ptarmigan (perdrix blanches) 36, 39, 42 milk . . «5 I, 980 Pudding (Ponding), almond. Roman 850 burnt 741 tea, American 981 apricot (cold) 788 gelee au 786 Austrian .. 728 au Kirsch 851 851t io6 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Punch a la Ni9oise a la royale Punches and Sorbets Puree (Soups, etc.) de bettert de canard 222 Quenelles de canard aux petits pois 467 de celeri an croutons 632 chicken or veal farce 181 a la chasseur . . 222 a la Clamart . . 363 chestnut garnish 426 de chapon a la Vatel 480 chicken for invalids . . 916 consomme printanier aux . . 195 de choux de Bruxelles 208 de foie-gi'as a la Perigueux . . 472 de choux-fieurs 209 frites, consomme aux 195 de concombres 639 au.x huitres 306 Cre9y an riz .. 209 Godiveau 177 de crosnes 640 aux huitres . . 305 duxelle 140 de merlans, Joinville 294 aux epinards. . 209 an Parmesan 880 hsh 205-7 de poisson, farce a . . 177 puree for invalids 916 de pommes de terre . . 661 haricot bean . . 210 de rognons a la Parmentier. . 362 how to tammy 129 de saumon a la royale 320 aux huitres . . 206 lie veau (see Veau, quenelle de) 422 de lentilles 2: [o, 643 de volaille (see Volaille) 484 lobster, for stuffing fish de marrons chasseur. . de navets an gratin . . nivernaise d’oseille de poireaux a la creme de pois de pois verts . . pommes de terre poultry, meat, and game 2n-eparation of Souveraine St. Cloud de St. Hubert St. Martha Sultane Suzette de topinambours de truffes de volaille vegetables Purees and thick soups . . Pyramide d’oeufs a la refonne de poires a la Conde QUAILS (sceCailles) braised, Indian style in casserole .. in cases chaud-froid of cutlets darioles of Moliere style . . pie, Moscovite style in puff pastry in paste crust pudding roast . . stuffed supreme of timbale Tosca style 851 851 8.28-51 207 , 285 211 64 s 211 64s 212 224 647 212 214-18 100-2 224 224 224 224 224 224 213 667 216 207-14 100 687 747 36,43 518 521 580 579 520 722 518 522 521 522 523 615 521 519 581 519 Quails, time for baking . . . . 128 yuartier d’agneau a la Flamande 60: yueen cakes . . . . . . 940 salad . . . . . . . . 716 Queues (Tails), d’agneau a la Rnsse 395 de boenf a I’Alsacienne . . 446 braises a la polonaise . . 446 consomme aux . . . . 203 potage .. .. .. 221 d’ecrevisses, anchois et . . 238 de monton, braisees . . 410 de veau a I’lndienne (potage) 224 yuillets . . . . . . . . 942 yuince (coing), in season. . .. 39 jelly 970 [RABBIT (Lapin). . 36,41,43 to carve .. . . .. 985 Catalane style .. .. 505 darioles . . . . . . 505 fried . . . . . . . . 504 fritters . . . . . . 506 souffles, small . . .. 505 stew, French . . . . 504 stewed .. . . .. 505 time for baking .. .. 127 Rable de lievre a la mode .. 534 a la Saint-Denis . . . . 536 Radishes (radis) . . . . . . 227 Ragout de champignons .. .. 375 de mouton .. .. .. 405 a rirlandaise . . . . 404 d’oeufs a la Fraii9aise . . 690 anx pointes d’asperges .. 625 de veau .. . . . . 430 de volaille a la Toulousienne 494 Raie (skate) a la bourgeoise .. 310 an beurre noir . . . . 311 Raifort (horse-radish) .. .. 158 creme de, froide . . . . 158 sauce, chaud .. .. .. 157 sauce, frappe .. .. 158 Raised game pie . . . . . . 589 fish pie . . . . . . 311 hare pie .. .. .. 588 piecrust .. .. .. 1361107 GENERAL INDEX. Raisins (grapes), chartreuse de 777 Ris d’agneau,tartelettes de, Mirabeau 369 sorbet de 850 timbales de, a la Princesse 368 tea 920 a la Voltaire 395 Ramekins, egg and tomato 906 Ris de veau (Calf’s Sweetbreads)— Ramequin, diets de soles en 288 a I’Amiral 551 Ranges, central 60 a la Bcnevole . . 426 close, how to clean . . 62 a la Biarritz 550 coal 57-60 a la Chartreuse. . 424 wall . . 60 a la Colbert 427 Rarebit, Swiss 887 a la Comtesse . . 427 ^^’elsh 887 a la Conti 424 Raspberries (framboises), in season 39 a I’Indienne 425 Raspberry lingers 958 a la jardiniere . . 425 pudding 742 a la Louis Philijipe 425 sauce .. 178 a la Matignon . . 427 Ravigote sauces . . 169 a la Milanaise . . 426 Ravioli farce 196 a la Montreuil . . 427 paste . . 194 a la reine, potage de , . 224 Ravioles a I’ltalienne 671 a la Senn 427 a la Napolitaiiie 363 a la Stanley 425 aux epinards 670 a la St. Michel . . 551 Red cabbage (chou-rouge) 39 a la Toulouse . . 425 Red-currant jelly . . 969 a la Villeroi 426 Red mullet {see ulso Rouget)— beignets de, en caisses . . 349 hllets, Jewish style . . ■^95 en cocotte, miroton de . . 3 00 grilled 29s coquilles de 354 in papers 296 crepinettes de, en caisses 353 Portuguese style 296 en demi-deuil . . 427 Venetian style 296 dormes feuilletes de 358 Reeves, in season . . 39 escalopes de, Parmentier 428 Reines-claude (greengages) friandines de 359 beignets de .. frit a I’Americaine 423 Reins de sanglier an Madere 608 aux epinards 424 Releves or removes 347 en hatelets 424 Remnants of cheese 977 miroton de, en cocotte. . 360 Reraouillage 179 . mousselines de, harlequin 549 Rcmoulade d’artichauts . . 253 omelette de, a I’AHemande 371 d’ceufs 252 petites caisses de 352 Removes or releves 347 potage de, a la reine 224 Rhubarb . . 37. 39 rissoles de 365 Rhum (rum) baba au 737 roulettes de, imperatrice 363 omelette au . . 761 supreme de, a la reine . . 552 Ribbon potatoes . . 656 timbale de, a la Mirabeau 360 Rice (see also Riz) biscuits 950-1 a la reine . . 552 au gratin 907 vol-au-vent de . . 429 to blanch 129 Rissoles and rissolettes . . 3^4 boiled. . 976 Rissoles, artichoke 621 cake or buns . . 930 chicken 901 cream of, soup 21; cherry . . . . . . 763 croquettes 6; •3. 763 Dutch. . 36s digestion of . . 43 game . . 365 Hungarian style 385 liver (goose) . . 3hS Polish style . . 386 lobster 3^^5 and shrimp salad 697 oyster. . 36s socle of, for cold entrees, 1 .V-c. 132 potato 658 Rinds, lemon 979 snipe . . 365 orange 952 venison . . . . 365, 901 Rings, almond 952 a la chasseur . . 36s lemon. . 979 a la Hollandaise . . ... 365 Ris d’agneau (Lamb’s Sweetbreads) 540 a la moelle de boeuf . . 365 bonnes-bouches de 540 a la reine (chicken) . . 901 en caisses Pont Neuf 541 a la Russe 365 friandines de 359 de becasse aux truffes 365 a la Sevigne 540 de cerises 763THE NEW CENTUEY COOKERY BOOK. io8 Rissoles, de chevreuil de foie-gras . . de gibier de homard aux huitres . . pommes de terre de ris de veau . . de volaille a I’lndieniie Rissolettes.. d’artichaiits . . de foie-gras a la Pompadour a la Solferino. . Rissoletti . . a ritalieniie .. Risotto for cailles a la Tosca. . timbales de, Milanaise Riz (si'C also Rice) a la Beige a I’Espagnole. . .. .. a la Florentine a la Hongroise aR’Imperatrice a rindienne . . a la Maltaise . . a la Milanaise a la Piemontaise a la polonaise . . a la reine a la tomate . . a la Turque . . casserole de pommes an croquettes de. . an salpicon gateaux de . . meringue, peches au ])oires au, a la marquise Roasting processes joints, rules for oven . . elementary rules for. . Roast capon chicken duck .. duckling guinea-fowl . . grouse hare . . larks . . leg of mutton. . pheasant partridge quails snipe, stuffed. . turkey haunch of venison woodcocks Rock cakes Rognons (Kidneys), grilles de mouton a la Chinoise a I’epicurienne .. a, la Turbigo aux lines herbes jjanes sautes a la Fraii9aise . . 900 365 365 36s 36s 058 36s 365 364 621 364 87s 673 672 384 S19 373 673 673 673 38s 789 672 789 673 673 386 673 672 673 750 763 358 930 753 748 82-4 83 83 612 609 611 611 612 613 615 615 599 612 614-15 615 613 610 606 614 930 406 405 410 410 410 410 410 Rognons de veau{seeVeau,rognons de)430 rranpillon omelette aux. [quenelles de, a la Parmentie sautes aux chamjjignons en caisses Rolls, dinner Paisley Roman cream pie punch. . sauce . . Rond de veau farci Roquefort cheese sandwiches Roses de nouilles, pour garniture pastry, how to make Rosettes aux anchois Rouelles de veau . . Rougets (Red Mullet) a la a la Marechale a la Marseillaise a la Nantaise. . a la Ni9oise .. a la Polonaise a la Portugaise a la Venitienne a la Villeroi . . au Fenouil en hlets a la juive en papillotes .. grilles a la maitre d'hotel Rough puff or half-puff paste Roulade a la Norvegienne de veau au Madere . . Rouladines de veau Roulettes a la creole de Camembert de ris de veau a I’imperatrice Roux (various kinds of) .. 104-5, Royal custard for clear soups icing . . punch. . sturgeon, in season Royans a la bordelaise Ruffs, in season . . Rules on jam-making omelet making Rum omelet sauce . . Rusks, German Russian cake charlotte ribbon jelly Rustique, bombe, a la moderne . . 847 timbale aux Raises glacees 680 362 406 405 976 950 782 904 850 169 603 923 133 133 239 428 295 297 296 296 296 297 296 296 296 296 295 296 295 134 549 430 428 237 887 363 124 180 139 851 39 228 39 967 675 761 171 976 942 794 CABAYON au Madere .. .. 171 Sublets . . . . ■ . 955 Sabot d’oranges au Curasao . 762 Saddle of mutton, to carve . . 986 Sage and onion stufling . . . . 972 St. Jacques coupe. ., .. .. 838 St. Pierre (John Dory) a la Genoise 3101109 GENERAL INDEX. PAGE alad (see also Salade), artichoke 700 Salad, Russian 710 aspariigus 696 St. James’s . . 710 American 2.15 sardine, Spanisli 710 with shrimps 235 S]ianisli 701 Neva style 696 s])inach and egg 700 bacon . . 715 summer 714 banana 714 Swedish 711 barb . . 697 tomato 711 Belgian .. 696 vegetable, mixed 703 cabbage, red . . 714 winter 701 . 715 calf’s head 706 Salade a I’Americaine 713 cardoon 697 d’ananas 717 caviare 698 d’asperges 696 celery and cucumber 698 Americaine 235 cherry 717 aux crevettes 235 chicken 712,716 Neva 696 crab .. 700 a la Bagration 714 and lettuce 707 de bananes .. 714 cucumber with cream 699 a la Be^ulcaire 714 and lettuce 704 a la Beauvilliers 696 Danish 714 Beige . . 696 dressing, French 713 a la Brissane . . 714 without oil 713 de canard 696 duck 696 a la Capucine . . 697 Dutch. . 713 de cardon 697 egg 707 a la Caroline . . 697 endive 698 de caviar 698 with bacon 698 caviar en 242 and celery 705 a la Cazanova 714 farmhouse 716 de cerises 717 fish in aspic . . 896 chantrelles en 237 four seasons . . 710 a la chasseur . . 714 fruit 717 de chicoree . . 698 in glasses 826 au lard . . 698 Flemish 715 de chou-rouge 714 French 701 a la Colchester 698 game . . 701 de concombres 698 and celery 703 a la creme 699 hopshoot 702 et celeri . . 698 Imnter’s 714 a la Contoise. . 699 Italian 712,715 de crabes 700 Japanese 703 cressoniere 714 lettuce 704 Danicheff 714 contoise . . 699 Danoise 714 lobster . . 702 demi-deuil 714 in shells . . 702 a la Demidoff. . 700 melon. . 234 a la Dieppoise 700 mixture, plain 713 a la Dumas . . 714 Neapolitan .. 716 Elva . . 714 oyster and celery 705 aux epinards et oeufs 700 Colchester 698 a I’Espagnole. . 701 orange 717 d’estrees 714 mandarin 712 d’ete . . 714 peach .. 800 Eugenie 701 pea and bean 708 Eva . . 715 pineapple 717 a la Flamande 715 Indian . . ' . . 235 a la Erau9aise 701 plain, mixture 713 Fraiifillon 715 Polish. . .. 716 de fruits 715 potato 708 Gallati 715 queen . . 716 Georgette 71.3 rice and shrimp 697 de gibier 701 See also Salade, Separate index in English a la Grimod . . 715 1 French. Elenriette 715T ] lO THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. de Volatile Roquefort cheese 923 712, 716 Salade d’hiver Hollandaise . . de homard en coquille de houbloii . . Imperiale a riudienne .. Italieniie a ritalienne . . Japonaise a la jardiniere Jockey Club . . a la Judic de laitue de legumes a la Lyonuaise Lorette macedoine de Mandarines Mariette a la Marquise Melba Mercedes a la Meuniere. . * Mignonne Mikado a la Miliken . . Mirette Monseignenr a la Monte Carlo a la Monte-Cristo a la Moscovite Murger Nantoise Napolitaine . . Ni9oise Norge aux cents d’oeiifs en supreme . . Opera d’oranges panachee en surprise pauvre homme a la paysanne de peches de perdreau a la carpentras au petit-lard . . de pois et haricots verts a la polonaise des pommes de terre tpiatre saisons a la Rachel . . a’la reine Rejane a la Reyniei'e. . a la Russe Russe (maigre) Sahara a la Saint Jacques . . de sardines a I’Espagnole a la Sotteville Suedoise de tomates a la Villeroi . . Salade Waldort .. I'AGli 716 Wilhelmine . . 712 \\'indsor 716 Salami sausage 228 Salmis de canard .. 464 a la Montreuil 46s de caneton a la Vincent 471 de chevreuil a la Sultane 535 de coq de Bruyere . . 511 de faisan a la IBohemienne 5” de perdreaux a la chasseur 527 de perclrix a la Regence 526 de pluviers a la chasseur 520 Salmon (Saumon)baked, Italian st^de 259 croquettes 261 devilled 869 fillets in savoury aspic 322 grilled 259 pie 261 rolls, smoked 869 smoked, with cucumber 252 tart 262 tartlets 238 trout (see Truite saumonee). . 263 Salpicon 124 Salsifis (Salsify) a la Bechamel 661. a la poulette 661 a la Villeroy . . 661 beignets de . . 661 au beurre fondu 661 Hollandaise . . 66 T Salsify (salsifis), in season 39 Salt .. I 13-14 Sand-cake, American 944 Sand-torte 812 Sandwiches (see also Tartines, Denises) Baroda style . . 246 a la Bernhardt 924 a la Chesterfield 924 almond, frosted 941 anchovy 922 asparagus 92s caviare 922 chasseur 926 cheese 923 cream 923 chicken 922 cucumber and lettuce 926 Danish 926 Creole egg ‘924 egg 923 empress 926 epicurean 925 foie-gras 923 fruit 926 game . . 922 Gruyere 923 lettuce 926 nut 927 olivette 925 princess 247 raw beef 915 rolled . . 924 701. 715 • 715 702 702 702 703 23s 703 71S 703 703 715 715 704 ■ 715 704 704 712 • 715 704 • 567 70s 705 705 706 716 706 706 706 716 716 706 707 . 716 716 329 707 707 707 717 708 . 716 716 800 708 71S 708 . 716 708 710 709 . 716 709 709 710 710 716 710 710 716 711 711 711GENERAL INDEX. Sandwiches, salmon and lobster.. 922 Sauce, JSonne femme sardine 921 Bonnefoy Sicily 927 1 Bordeaux simple or plain 921 j Bordelaise Swedish 248 j Bourguignonne sweetbread . . 92s Bretomie Turkish 247 brune Sanglier (Wild Boar), boudins de 352 Bulgare carre de, a la Russe . . 536 Bulgarienne . . cuissot de, aux cerises 536 Byron gigot de, a la Bourgogne . . 608 canopere hure de 544 aux capres reins de, au Madere . . 608 brune Saratoga (drink) . . chips (potatoes) Sarcelle (Widgeon) Moscovite bardees a la Westphalie aux olives supreme de, a 1’Orange Sardines a la maire bonnes-bouches de canapes de, a la Franfaise a la Soubise curried eclairs de omelette aux au Parmesan salade de, a I’Espagnole *Sauce a I’abricot. . a I’amiral au cafe a la creme a I’essence a la menthe . . a la moelle de boeuf a I’orange a I’oseille a la Reine-Marie a la Seville a la Vanille . . aigre-douce . . Albert Albufera Allemande Americaine . . anchois Anglaise aurora Avignonnaise Ayola Bartarde, Anglaise Bavaroise Bearnaise ! brune J tomatee . . Bechamel Ber9y beurre cremeuse au beurre noir Bigarade blanquette Bohemienne . . 981 '''53 529 529 5^9 585 864 230 245 865 897 863 679 863 710 171 164 172 165 165 154 168 171 168 169 169 173 141 141 164 141 164 141 '55 '41 164 '64 164 164 '43 '43 143 , 142 '42 164 '42 '42 143 164 and Cardinal carlet . . Castelaine Cazanova champignons, bland champagne brune . . Chantilly chasseur and chasseur royal Chateaubriand chaud-froid, blanche blonde and brune chevreuil citron au chocolat choron Colbert aux fines herbes aux concombres chaude cornichons au cognac crapaudine creme de celeri tomate crevettes curagao or maraschino Cussy . . Czarine Danoise Daumont derai-deuil Demidoff demi-glace diable diplomate duchesse Duglere Duxelle cchalote aux ecrevisses epicure epicurienne Espagnole estragon fenouil fermiere linangiere Flamande fleurette aux Raises aux framboises 164 164 '42 '43 164 164 '44 '64 143 164 ib4 147 164 '44 i6s i6‘t; 165 '45 145 146 165 '45 145 144 '44 140 ' 7“ 171 i6t; 146 147 147 165 170 '45 147 161 60, 163 163 147 16s '6 s 148 14.8 I6s i6s i6s '6 s i6s 14S 165 148 48. 149 16s 166 166 166 166 166 '73THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. I I 12 ce Fraii(,'ois 166 Sauce aux oeufs 168 Garibaldi 166 aux npufs durs . .. 148 generale 166 aux oignons . . i:;6, 168 Genevoise 166 aux olives 168 Genoise 149 au jus d’orange .. is6 gibier . . 149 166 au pain 143 gonffe ISO paprika 168 gourmet 166 Parisienne 168 grand veneur 166 jiauvre homme 168 Granville 166 Perigueux .. is6 gribiclie 166 persil . . 156 Iiachis 166 persillade 169 Hessoise 167 piment 169 Hollandaise . . 150 piquante , . . IS'6 verte 167 poivrade IS7 Holstein 167 Polonaise 169 liomard ISO aux pommes . . 169 Horly, or Orly 167 Pompadour . . 157 aux huitres . . ISO Portugaise 169 liiire de sanglier 167 poulette 642 Indienne ISO Prince de Galles 169 Italienne 111 princesse IS7 an jam bon 167 proven9ale 169 Joinville 151 raifort, chaude IS7 kari 167 trappee . . .. is8 an kirsch 171 Iroide 158 livournaise 167 ravigote, chaude 169 Lyonnaise 167 froide 169 Madere 151 reforme iS8 Maintenon 152. 167 regence 169 maitre d’hotel 151 remoulade iS8 Malaga 167 Ricardo 169 Maltaise 167 riche . . 169 Mande soo Richelieu 169 maraschino . . 170 Robert .. is8 marchand de vin 167 Romaine .. 169 marguery 167 Rouennaise . . IS7 marinade 154 ruisseau IS8 mariniere 167 sabayon au Madere . . 171 Marseillaise . . IS3 salmi or salmy 1S9 matelote 152 Sicilienne 169 blanche . . 167 sirop au jmnch 171 brnne 167 soubise 160 Maximilian . . 167 Soyer .. 170 mayonnaise . . I ‘12 Spadacini 110 tomatee .. 153 stragotte 170 Medicis 168 vSuedoise IS9 Melba 168 supreme 160 menthe 154, 168 sweet . . •■ 170-3 Mirabeau 154 Tartare 160 Miroton 168 Texienne 170 Mornay 154 tomate 160 aux monies . . 168 tortue. . 170 mousseline, blanche 155 trianon S68 sweet 172 truffle (perigueux) . . iS6 verte iSS universelle 170 moutarde iSS Valentine 162 Nantua 168 Valoise 170 Napolitaine .. 168 veloutee 109, 161 Nigoise 168 Venitienne i6t noisette 168 verjus. . 170 nonpareille . . 168 verte .. S<?4 Normande ISS verte glacee . . 162 Norvegienne . . 168 vert-prc , . 161GENERAL INDEX. Sauce Victoria r62 Sauce, gherkin 165 Vincent 170 Gloucester I tit) ^'iennoise 170 gooseberry 166 Villeroi 170 green . . •• 564 an vin blanc . . 162 iced rouge 172 Dutch .’! T67 Vinaigrette . . 162 ham . . .. 167 Xavier .. 163 half-glaze 148 York 170 herb, green . . 161 Zingara 163 Hessian 167 ♦Sauce, Admiral . . 104 ' horse radish, hot 157 American 164 1 cream, cold 158 anchovy 14I 1 iced iq8 apple . . 169 1 hunter’s 145 apricot 171 j Indian curry . . 150 aspic cream . . 142, 147 Italian 151 mayonnaise 142 jam 730 beefsteak 164 Leghorn 167 marrow . . 168 lemon. . 172 boar’s head . . .. 167 mayonnaise 153 black butter . . 142 lobster 150 brandy 170 Lyons. . .. 167 bread . . 143 Madeira iqi Bohemian 164 Maltese 167 brown caper . . 164 marmalade . . 173 fish 144. 149 marinade 154 haricot . . 164 mayonnaise cream 153 lierb 146 melted butter 15s matelote 167 sweet 173 mushroom 146 mint . . I s4, 168 Burgundy 164 mousseline, white 155 Cambridge, hot .. 146 green, cold 155 cold 164 sweet T72 caper . . 147 mustard 155 caramel 172 mussel 168 celery cream . . 147 Neapolitain . . t68 chaud-froid, white ., 144 nonpareil 168 fawn and brown 144 Normandy 155 green or pink . . 145 Norwegian 168 Sweet 173 nut 168 chocolate 171 olive . . 168 claret . . 143. 172 onion . . I 56, 168 coffee .. 172 orange 156, 171 cornflour . . , 172 oyster. . 150, 156 cream. . .. 165 Parisian 168 cucumber, cold 147 parsley .. 156 hot 147 or fine herb 151' Cumberland . . 146 pepper .. 157 curry . . 147. 165 Polish.. 169 Danish 147. 159 poor man’s . . 168 devilled .. 148 port wine 167 Dutch. . I qo prawn. . .. T48 egg 148, 168 Prince of ^Vales 169 epicurean 148, 165 Queen Mary . . 169 farmhouse 166 raspberry 173 fennel. . 166 Roman 169 fish 163 ; rum 171 Flemish 166 i Russian 159 game . . 149, t66 salmi, or salmy 159 or salmi . . 165 sharp . . 156 Geneva r66 1 shallot 165 German 141 shrimp 160, 165 ■ Sauces are indexed separately in French and Sicilian 169 I'nglish. sorrel . . 168THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. 1114 I'ACE Sauce, Spanish .. . . .. 148 strawberry . . . . . . 171 cold .. . . . . 173 Swedish .. .. .. 159 Tarragon . . . . . . 165 Texas .. . . .. . . 170 tomato .. .. .. 160 aspic . . . . . . 142 cream . . . . . . 161 truffle.. . . . . .. 156 turtle . . . . . . . . 170 universal . . . . . . 170 vanilla . . . . . . 173 velvet. . . . . . . . 161 venison .. .. . . 146 watercress .. .. .. 158 white, simple. . .. .. 163 fish . . . . .. 163 matelote. . . . . . 167 mushroom . . . . 145 wine , . . . .. 162 Yorkshire . . . . . . 170 Sauces and their composition . . 103-11 and gravies, difference between 104 and seasoning, characteristics no brown. . . . . . . . 109 cold . . . . . . . . Ill cook’s duty regarding .. no foundation . . . . . . 107 ham or lean bacon in . . 108 hot . . . . . . .. III how to tammy . . . . 129 liaisons for . . . . . . 104-6 mirepoix for . . . . . . 106 ordinary or plain . . . . 109 overcooking of . . . . 109 overseasoning of . . . . 109 reduction of . . . . . . no roux for . . . . .. 104-5 theory of .. . . . . 103-4 time required for cooking . . 108 Saucisses (Sausages) a la Lyonnaise 461 a la puree de pommes de terre 461 cannelons aux . . . . 352 de pore aux truffes . . . . 461 Sauerkraut (choucroute). . .. 973 Saumon (Salmon) a la Chambord 256 a la Godard . . . . . . 262 a ITtalienne .. .. .. 259 a la matelote. . . . . . 258 a la Montmorency . . . . 260 a la Parisienne . . . . 259 a la Piemontaise . . . . 262 a la Verdi . . . . . . 258 a la vert-pre . . . . . . 262 a la Victoria . . . . . . 262 aux huitres . . . . . . 262 ballons de, fume . . . . 869 cotelettes de, a la Danoise . . 257 a rindienne . . . . 256 croquettes de . . . . 261 croustades de, a la diable . . 869 dariole de, a la Moscovienne 318 darne de, see Darne de saumon 262 Saumon, epigrammes de, a la diplomate . . . . . . 319 escalopes de, a la Nantaise.. 262 filets de, a la Duchesse .. 257 fume,- ballons de . . . . 869 grenadins de, a la Venitienne 263 grille au beurre d’anchois . . 259 hure de, a la moderne . . 258 a la Proven9ale. . . . 263 mousses de, a la cardinal . . 260 papillotes de .. .. .. 260 *pate de, a I’homard .. .. 261 paupiettes de, aux huitres . . 263 a la regence . . . . 263 a la reine .. .. 261 petits souffles de, a I’lndienne 321 quenelles de, a la Royale . . 320 souvenirs de, a la gelee . . . 322 tartelettes de, a I’Ecossaise. . 238 tourte de .. . . .. 262 tranches de, grille . . . . 259 Richelieu . . . . 325 en tranches a la Meuniere . . 262 tranchettes de, en Belle-Vue 322 Saumure (pickle) for beef or pork 130 Sausages (saucisses) tomato and.. 907 digestion of .. .. .. 43 smoked (saucissons).. .. 228 Sauter, or sauteing process .. 91 Savoie, gateau de .. .. .. 931 a la Chantilly . . . . 808 Savarin a I’ananas (bordure) . . 756 a la Charivari .. .. 812 a la Moscovienne . . . . 754 border for fruits a la nationale 756 Savigny, gateaux .. .. . . 807 Savory, summer and winter . . 118 Savoury cold meat toast. . .. 903 croutes, with ham . . . . 863 custard . . .. . . 917 egg dishes and omelettes .. 674-94 jelly for cold entrees, &c. .. 132 lentils.. .. . . .. 907 omelet .. .. .. 675 macaroni with ham . . . . 897 Savouries (bonne-bouches) . . 854 Savoy cake .. ,. .. 931 Savoys in season .. .. .. 39 Saxony pudding . . . . . . 739 Scald, to . . . . . . . . 131 Scallops {see Petoncles), in season 39 in Proven^ale style . . . . 301 goose liver . . . . . . 572 white sauce . . . . . . 301 Scalloped fish . . . . . . 303 Schenkelein . . . . . . 958 Science of cookery . . . . 17-22 Scones, milk and Scotch . . .. 935 small cream .. . . . . 935 Scotch broth .. .. . . 201 collops . . . . . . 904 eggs 906 gingerbread . . . . .. 949 scones .. .. .. 935GENRR.IL INDEX. T115 Scraiiiblecl brains 901 eggs 683 Sea-kale (see Chou-de-mer) 42 Seasoning and flavouring, art of i 12-20 articles used for . . - r 13-20 meat for cooking 125 Seed cake . . 932 Sclle d’agneau (see Agneau, selle d’) fioi a la duchesse 600 de chevreuil anx tomates .. 608 de mouton (see Mouton, selle de) 601 de pre-sale, Belle Alliance . . 60 T dc veau aux tomates farcies 603 Prince Orloff 602 de venaison rotie 607 Semelles .. 944 Semolina (semoule) 671 croutons 466 and tomato shape . . 671 Semoule (semolina) croquettes de 671 pain de, a la tomate.. 671 potage de 225 timbales de, a la Portugaise 759 Sensation (drink) 98T Service of soups . . 102 Seville oranges, in season 39 sauce . . 169 Shallot (echalote). . 119 sauce . . 165 Sliavings .. 95 5 Sheeps’ kidneys, a I’lndienne 901 Shell-fish soups, preparation of . . Shepherd’s pie lOI 903 Sherry cobbler 981 Short crust paste . . 133 Shortbread 948 Shoulder of mutton, to carve 985 Shrewsbury biscuits 951 Shrimp butter 175 darioles 320 sauce . . . . . . 160, 165 soup Shrimps (see Crevettes), in 225 season 39 Sick-room soups . . ■ . . 102 Silver ilream and silver fizz 982 Simmering process 78 Simple dishes (hors-d’muvre) 228 Sirloin of beef, to carve . . 984 Siro]r an punch 171 Skate (raie) 39.40 bourgeoise style 310 Smelts (eperlans), baked. . 299 chartreuse of 300 fried . . . . . . 298,299 souffle of 301 stuffed 299 Smoked fish fritters 893 haddock, kedgeree . . 895 timbale . . 313 salmon with cucumber 252 sausage 228 Smoking process . . 92 Snaps, brandy 957 I'AGi: Snipe (becasse) . 516 braised 517 fillets . . 516 roast, stuffed. . 613 Snow apples 750 cakes . . 937 Snowdon pudding 740 Socle of rice for cold entrees, t\'c. 132 Soda cake . . 932 water, egg and 920 Soldat, tschi de (soup) 220 Soles (Soles) . . .. 2 5. 40, 43 a la Bismark. . 290 a la Boitel 290 a la Bosniaque 291 a la Cancale . . 291 a la Cherbourg 291 a la chevalierc 291 a la Colbert . . 275 a la diable 29 r al’Empereur.. 291 a la Florentine 291 ala Hambourgeoise . . 291 ala Joinville .. 29[ a la Louisa-Anna 29 r a la Marechale 291 a la iVlarie-Louise 29 r a la Michel .. 29 [ a la Nantua . . 291 a la N i90i.se . . 291 a la Normandc 275 a rOrly 292 a la Pagani . . 292 a la St. Germain 292 a la Sully 292 a la Vatel 276 a la \^enitienne 292 a la Villeroise 292 escalopes de, a la Vernon 292 filets de, a I’Americaine 280 a la Blanchaille 280 a la Bovin 281 a la Carlette 282 a la Catalane 281 a la chasseur royale 28 I a la Czarina 282 a la Dauphine . . 292 a la Diane 720 a la Diocletien . . 282 a la Dreux 282 a la gastronome . 284 a la Grand-Due 284 a I’lndienne . 284 a la Jeannette .. • 328 a la Marcelle . 285 a la mayonnaise • 328 a la Messaline . . 285 a la Montpensier . 285 a la Montreuil . . a la Mornay 286 a la Neuville 292 a la Normande . . 287 a la Norvegienne 329 a la Piemontaise 2881116 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Soles (Soles) a la Regence a la Royale a la Salisbury . . a la Sezet a la Suetone a la Trouville . . a la Victoria a la Xavier aux aubergines . . belles de nuit . . cendrillons de, Parisienn chartreuse de . . chaud-froid de, Capucine coquilles de, a la favorite en aspic . . en fers a cheval Sole filets paupiettes de Richelieu Saint Georges . . en'ramequins en surprise timbale de timbale de, a la Savoy . . filets de sole Orientale turban de, a la Mont- pellier en zephires fried . . au gratin grilled hatelets de, a la Villeroi paupiettes de (see Paupiettes) au parmesan . . en souchet souffle de steamed au vin blaiic . . Solid fuels . . Sorbet, cream gooseberry ) grape lemon orange ... pineapple strawberry Sorbets (Sherbert), d’ananas au citron a la creme aux fraises de groseilles au marasquin . . au mocha d’orange de raisin Sorrel (see Oseille), mashed Souchet, limandes en soles en Souffle a la Carmen a la Parme a la tomate . . a la Voltaire . . aux amandes pralinees aux carottes . . d’artichauts . . d’artichauts a la Lyonnaise de cailles marechale .. PAGE 330 288 289 289 290 290 290 280 292 278 279 327 326 327 328 277 283 288 289 279 292 287 331 330 913 27s 913 292 292 276 292 292 913 277 .34 849 849 850 849 849 848 849 848 849 849 849 849 850 849 850 645 270 292 796 797 744 630 380 623 520 Souffle de celeri .. au citron cornflour d’eperlans fish fondu, au fromage . . frappe a la Reine Isabelle . . aux framboises . . au marasquin . . au fromage . . glaces a rArgenteuil glace a la Joinville . . de haricot verts a la Duchesse de homarcl a la Aurora a la Bourgeoise Grand Marnier aux huitres . . au jambon de jambon a la gastronome . . a la Milanaise . . en casserole a'l’Espagnole . . de lapin de marrons de merlan d’oranges a la Gilbert, au paprika de perdreaux a I’Anglaise . . de pois verts . . au pois nouveaux de pommes de terre . . praline au chocolat . . aux prunes au Salmyon . . de soles turbot, a la Senn de veau de volaille en caisses a la reine a la Perigord Souffle, almond, burnt cornflour chestnut chocolate, iced fi-sh iced lemon maraschino, iced milanese orange pineapple peach, iced .. prune, baked raspberry, iced tunny fish vanilla pudding violet . . Soufflee, omelette au chocolat en surprise and Stephanie Souffles beignets, a la vanille Hongroise en surprise PAGE 631 744 741 301 914 885 843 843 798 884 377 844 381 381 309 307 744 304 458 461 461 55.3 555 505 745 294 745 88s 526 648 382 655 797 745 798 292 268 429 495 495 502 496 744 744 745 797 914 843 744 798 798 745 741 796 745 843 867 743 797 761 762 762 767 88311 j GENERAL INDEX. 7 Souffles orange a la Javanaise Souffles (pctits) a la Fedora a la Gramont. . a la Helene . . a la Henri IV. a la Minute .. a la Mirabeau a la Tosca anx epinards. . de foies de volaille . . glaccs a I’ecarlate tie lapin de saumon a I’lndienne an thon . . Sonjdrs *Soup (Potage), .'Vnierican Argenteuil artichoke asparagus cream barley, with cream . . cream beef marrow . . beetroot Brussels sprouts brown celery chicken . . calf’s feet cauliflower cream carrot, with rice celery cream . . cherrjt chicory cream cucumber cream crawfish, pink crayfish cream of rice . . duck French chicken cream family .. lentil pumpkin green artichoke corn pea hsh German eel . . gentleman’s . . ham . . health hodge-podge . . hunter’s Indian calf’s tail Italian lentil . . lobster, Parisian maigre milk oatmeal, with cream ox-tail oyster Palestine partridge ■ See also Potage, index being in 839 844 876 884 36s 365 87s 840 641 372 545 321 867 931 221 221 214 207 212 912 203 207 208 911 214 225 209 209 208 222 208 209 223 205 215 222 215 181 211 213 207 222 210 205-7 221 222 216 225 222 222 224 223 210 205 203 219, 912 22 I 221 206 214 217 French and PACE Soup (Potage) Polish 223 poor man’s . . 223 potato 212 Prince of Wales 222 rice 912 rabbit, with sorrel . . 216 regent 224 Russian gravy 204 sago 197 scallop 206 semolina . . . . ' 225 shrimp 225 sorrel . . 212 Spanish 222 spinach 209 spring 203 tomato 213 turtle, mock . . 217 velvet. . 225 veal 225 vermicelli 225 Soups in general .. •■ 97-8 bisques or shell-fish . . lOI clear . . 99 cosmopolitan. . 102 creams and Altered . . lOI fish lOI purees and thick 100 sick-room 102 service of 102 Souvenirs a la St. Germain 554 Spaghetti a la Dieudonet. . .. 388 Spanish butter 175 ham . . , . . 0(J3 onions 42 sardine salad. . 710 Spare-ribs . . 459 Spatchcock of grouse Sii of chicken 905 Spices . . :i4 Spinach (epinards) 39.43 Sponge cakes 937 fingers 937 Sprats (melettes) . . 302 fried . . ■ • 302-3 Spring chickens, in season 38 Spun sugar 132-3 Spinach (Epinards), braised 381 and eggs 640 gondolas 382 omelet 679 and egg salad 700 souffles 641 Staudines de poisson a la Russe. . 314 Steak, to carve • • 987 and kidney pie 447 porterhouse, a la Goufte 445 and oyster pudding . . 447 Steamed choji 910 sole 913 Steaming process . . .So, 81, 82 Sterlet a la Russe . . 314 Stew (Ragout), beef 444 chicken and lambs bread 494iii8 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Stew (Ragout) fish, French Irish . . lamb, French. . 'rabbit, French veal, brown . . white Stewed eel .. mushrooms . . oysters Stewing process , . Stocks and soups . . Stock, clarification of constituent parts of . . fish general ingredients for over-cooking . . or marmite .. preparations made from rules for making vegetables and their uses ii Stock-pot, tap in . . Stoneware, cooking in Storeroom and larder Stoves, cooking coal electric gas management and care ' oil . . . . . . Strain jelly or consomme, to Strasbourg raised pie Strasbourgeoise beignets Strawberry fizz Straw potatoes Strawberries (Fraises) border cake, iced charlotte Chartreuse cream ice croutes fritters gondolas jelly moulds, little mousse pudding sauces sorbet tart, Swiss open timbale, iced trifle, iced water ice Stuffed cabbage . . egg plant olives .. onions a la Moscovienne vegetable marrow Stuffing, chestnut .. puree and truffle sage and onion Stuffing, plain PAGE 972 tomato 972 veal 971 Sturgeon {see Esturgeon) 39 Sucking-pig (cochon de lait), roast 607 adjuncts served with. . 41 Suedoise d’abricots 749 Suet dumplings 971 digestion of . . 43 pudding . . . . 91 7. 970 Sugar (Sucre) 120 spun .. 132 vanilla 139 Sultane aux fruits glaces . . 821 mousse 842 Su firmer salad 714 Sunrise (drink) 982 Supreme de cailles Lucullus 519 de canard a la Marcprise 467 de framboises 807 de poulet Jeannette . . 501 de ris de veau a la reine 552 lie sarcelle a 1’Orange 585 de turbot a la royale 267 de veau a I’aspic 549 Supreme de volaille (see Volaille). . 494 Surprises d’oranges 763 Swedish salad 711 sandwiches . . 248 Sweet chaud-froid sauce . . ’ . . 173 melted butter sauce 173 mousseline sauce 172 omelet 760 Sweetbread (Ris de Veau), to blanch 423 braised . . . . 42 5.427 in cases . . . . ' . . 425 Chartreuse of. . 424 chaud-froid of 551 cutlets 428 fried 423--4, 9i5 fritters 426 omelet 371 sandwiches . . 925 supreme de . . 552 timbales .. .. 360,552 with white sauce 91S Swiss charlotte 795 cheese pearls 885 cornets 939 cream.. 782 honey cakes .. 957 rarebit 887 rolls, small 933 strawberry tart 804 wafers.. 938 Syllabub, whipped 823 Syrup (sugar) 959 crystallizing . . 959 'J'ABLE service . . Talmouses a I’abricot 993 941 de merluche fumee 861 Tammy, how to . . 129 Tapioca (digestion of) 43 PACE 2SS 404 394 504 433 410 914 633 912 8s-6 94-102 100 95 97 96-7 95 96 96 97 96 96 100 92-3 SO 56-64 57-60 63-4 62-3 61-4 63 131 578 872 982 652 37. 39 804 808 792 777 830 802 764 803 784 791 799 742 71. 173 849 804 805 811 803 830 379 627 250 443 627 972 972 972 972ii:0 GENERAL INDEX. PAGE Tapioca, cherry . . 823 mould with fruit 782 pudding 917 Tarragon (Estragon) 117 sauce . . 165 Tart (Tourte), apple 822 fruit, French . . 80s pineapple, French 755 salmon, French 262 strawberry, open 80s Swiss 804 Tartlets (Tartelettes), almond .. 946 chocolate 945 Clarence 947 dessert, small 942 Granville 947 Royster 856 raspl)erry 942 salmon, Scotch 238 Tartelettes ( Tartlets) a la Balmoral 947 a la Parisienne 946 a la polenta (savoury) 874 a la St. Cloud 945 a la St. Denis 947 aux amandes. . 946 au chocolat . . 945 aux framboises 942 de macaroni . . 878 de ris d’agneau, a la Mirabeau 369 aux huitres et caviar 228 aux oranges . . 946 petites, Cracovienne. . 856 de saumon a TEcossaise 238 Tartines (Sandwiches) a la Baroda 246 a la cardinal . . 248 a la Creole 924 a la Florentine 868 a la Lucullus . . 249 a la Sicilienne 927 de caviar en chaud-froid 249 de homard, St. Martin 868 roulees 924 de volaille en surprise 562 Teal (sarcelle) 36,39 Tea ( The), beef .. .. 218,910 biscuits, French 934 bretzels 944 cakes, afternoon 934 how to choose 37 how to make. . 967 iced . . 853 raisin . . 920 raw beef 910 Tench (tenche) in season . . 39 Teiidrons de veau a la jardiniere 429 a la Palestine 430 faisan a la Cos.sart . . 508 Tcrrine de gibier a la Suisse 587 de lievre a la Stephanie 536 Tete (Head) de pore a la Mobile. . 461 a la poulette 461 frite, sauce remoulade . . 461 de veau a TAinericaine 432 a I’Anglaise 432 Tete (Head) de veau, a la Cavour a la Distilliere . . a ritalienne a la poulette sauce for . . a la Sainte-lMenehoukle a la Tyrol ienne . . a la vinaigrette . . en escalopes farcie aux truffes frite a la Tartare en tortue Tetras d’Amerique a la chasseur The glace (iced tea) Thermometers (cooking) . . Thon marine (tunny fish) Thyme Timbale a la Bardalouse .. a la Pompadour a la St. Petersbourg . . a la Sicilienne a la Toulouse. . a la Turinoise chapon a la Princesse de faisan a la Rothschild aux fruites a la 'metropole . de cailles en gelee de filets de sole de fruits a la Louis Napoleon de merluche, Milanaise de creme de fromage a rOrientale . . a la Savoy de jambon a la Bayonne de marrons, Imperatrice Napolitaine . . d’ceufs, a I'anchois . . a la Car'd inal d’oie aux truffes Parmeirtiere . . de ble vert de peches Marie-Louise de pigeon a la supreme rustique aux fraises glacees de pintade a la Marechale . de poisson de pommes de terre a la Mirette de poulet a la meridionale de ris d’agneau a la Princesse de veau a la Mirabeau . a la reine . . de Risotto, Milanaise de semoule a la Portusjaise de tomates au noix .. de turbot a la Russe. . Turinoise de veau a la Cardinal a la Marechale . . de volaille a la Prince de Galles Timbales and darioles Timbales (petites) a la Meridionah de gibier a la Galmier de mauviette Tinned goods 431 432 43^ 431 642 431 43^ 431 43-2 603 433 431 530 66 243 117 757 75« 758 7 59 560 367 480 583 758 581 279 733 313 886 287 292 553 805 367 722 472 657 377 759 475 657 qo2 368 360 553 373 759 387 318 367 432 432 564 366 369 369 S13 9771120 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Tivoli aux fraises . . PAGE 791 Tomates (Tomatoes) a la Suisse .. PAGE 663 Toad-in-the-hole .. 902 aux asperges 664 Toast bacon 898 au gratin .. . . 888 for dishing up and garnishing 975 frappees en mayonnaise 665 invalid 916 jambon aux . . 892 woodcock 890 mayonnaise de 153 Toddy, Jamaica (drink) . . 982 okra aux . . , 663 Toffee, chocolate and Everton 963 omelette aux 680 Tomato (Tomate) aspic . . 142 petites timbales de, a la Siecle. 378 baked 664, 888 potage de, a la St. Louis 213 biscuits, iced .. 889 a la maigre 2T3 cream sauce . . 161 roties . . . . . . . . 665 creams 664 salade de 711 conserve 975 sauce creme de 161 and sausage croutes . . 907 sautees 664 fritters 662 souffles a la . . 663 kidneys and . . 675 en surprise 254 omelet 680 timbales de, au noix 387 rice 672 Tongue sausage 228 salad . . 711 Topinambours (Jerusalem Artichokes)— sauce .. 160 a la creme 623 shapes 378 a la Creole 622 with shrimps. . 253 a I’Espagnole. . 623 stuffed 662, 663 a la Georgienne 623 iced 661 a ITndienne . . 623 and jellied 664 au gratin 623 souffles 663 au Risotto 384 stuffing 972 Tortue (Turtle), potage fausse . . 217 timbales 378 consomme de 203 tossed in butter Tomates (Tomatoes) 664 661 Tournedos (Fillets of Beet, see also Filets de Boeuf) a 1’Alexandra 454 a I’Argenteuille 389 a I’Arlesienne 454 a rAlgeriemie 564 a I’Armand . . 454 a I’Americaine 661 a la chasseur . . 454 a la Bock 664 a la choron . . 454 a la Bouquetiere 662 a la Colbert . . 454 a la Caroline . . 664 a la Drexel 454 a la Creole 664 a I’Elysee 454 a I’Espagnole.. 665 a la favorite . . 454 a la Florentine 665 a la Gabrielle 454 a Tlndienne . . 66 s a la grand hotel 454 a la Lucullus 254 a la Helder 454 a la Marseillaise 665 a I’imperatrice 454 a la Monaco . . 254 a la Mercedes 455 a la Napolitaine 664 a la Mikado . . 455 a la Ni5oise . . 254 a la mireille . . 455 a la Proven9ale 66s a la Monaco . . 455 a la Reforme 378 a la Monte Carlo 455 a la Remoulade 713 a la Montmorency . . 455 a la Renaissance 378 a la Nelson . . 455 a la Rentiere 664 a la nesselrode 455 a la Savarin, et pommes de terre 651 a la Ni9oise .. 455 a rSicilienne . . 66 s a rOrsay 455 a la Tartare . . 253 a 1’Othello 455 a la Toscane . . 66 s a la Parisienne 455 beignets de . . 662 a la piemontaise 455 buches de, a la Rossini 888 a la Pompadour 455 aux champignons 662 a la Prince Murat 455 aux crevettes 253 a la Rachel . . 450 aux lines herbes 66s a la riche 456 farcies a I’aspic 662 a la scribe 456 aux champignons 378 a la Thiers 456 a ITtalienne 663 a la Troya 456 a la reine 66s a la valliere . . 4561121 GENERAL INDEX. PAGE Tournedos de baiuf a I’Aixoise .. 442 a I’Imperatrice .. .. 442 a la Madeleine . . . . 442 a la Moscovieniie .. 443 a la Napoleon .. . . 443 a la Seymour . . . . 442 garnish for . . . . 443 braises an celeri . . . . 454 de chevreuil a la Milanaise . . _ 535 MacMahon .. .. .. 455 menagere . . . . . . 455 meridionale .. .. .. 455 Savoisienne . . . . . . 456 Strasbourgeoise . . . . 456 Tourte (Tart) a la frangii)ane .. 944 de saumon . . . . . . 262 Truite (Trout), filets de, mayonnaise 323 sablee. . 812 1'ranches a la neige 937 de caviar a la remoulade . . 241 de Raises a la neige .. 803 Richelieu, de saumon grille 25 9. 325 saumon en. a la Menniere . . 262 Tranchettes de saumon .. 322 Transparent icing . . 138 Trifle, Cobourg 824 Tripe, digestion of 43 braise a la Fermiere 449 Trois f re res, gateau 811 ITongons de truite a la Grecque 333 a la Tosca 871 Trout (see n/so Truite) . 39, 40, 43 blue . . 264 in red wine 264 Trufles (Truffles) a la Bernhardt. . 66s a ITtalienne . . 667 a la perigourdine 666 a la Rothschild 667 a la serviette 66/ en Belle-Vue . . 667 buisson de, a la Royale 667 cannelons aux 352 au champagne 666 coquilles de . . 3 54 mufs brouilles aux . . 683 omelette aux 680 potage aux . . 225 puree de 667 sous la cendre 666 volaille (see Volaille, truffee) Truffle butter 177 to keep 97S omelet 680 puree .. 667 I'ruffles (see Truffes). Truite (Trout) a la Cambaceres . . 263 au bleu 264 au chablis 265 a la Christiania 265 a la malvoisie 324 a la meuniere 264 a la montgolfier 265 a la Nansen .. 324 dames de, en Belle-Vue 326 a la Mirabeau frits, hlets de, a la Milanaise petites, a la Divonnaise Truite saumonee (salmon trout) a la Norvegienne a la Rothschild en chaud- froid . . au vin rouge Trussing [loultry . . . . i Tschi do soldat (Russian soup) . . Tuiles (dessert biscuits) . . Tunny lisli (see Thou marine) . . savoury souffles Turban de iilets de volaille de lievre a la Bohemienne . . de peches moderue . . de sole a la Montpellier Turbot (Turbot) .. aux aubergines bordure de, a la Careme filets de, a la Mont Blanc bouilli a la Victoria . . escalopes de, a la Dauphine filets de, a la Cussy . . a la Florentine a la Salamandre fleurettes de, a la Hollandaise mayonnaise de, a la moderne a la proveii9ale souffle de, a la Sena supreme de, a la Royale timbale de, a la Russe Turbotin (small turbot) 1-ussinoise a la Reine Turkey (see aho Dinde) boiled, with tongue how to bone . . how to carve how to choose how to truss . . Florentine style roast, stuffed with chestnu with truffles time required for bakin: Turkish coffee fish pillau sandwiches . . Turmeric . . Turnips (navets) . . baked, mashed puree Turtle (see Tortue), savoury sauce . . soup, clear Tutti-frutti, glace Twice cooking nNMOULD, to . . Universal sauce Utensils, cooking yANILLA (Vanille) .. cream cream ice 264 264 263 323 264 5-26 220 946 865 867 490 533 800 331 40 268 265 329 268 265 366 266 267 318 324 267 268 357 318 269 269 9- 42-3 608 127 988 35 610 610 127 966 909 247 IIS 119 645 211 864 170 198 834 91 12S 170 ^'7-75 120 7721122 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Vanilla essence, to make 974 Veau (Veal) a I’Anglaise . . 415 fritters 767 goulache de, a la Viennoise. . 419 sauce . . 173 grenadins, Marchand de vin 419 .sugar . . 139 a la jardiniere .. 419 souffle 743 longe de, a la Fran9aise 602 wafers 939 a la Genevoise . . 602 N’anilles, oeufs, a la neige 769 matelote de cervelle de 413 Veal (Veau) 31-2. 41-3 noisettes de, a la Princesse . . 420 breast of 602 noix de, a la Viart . . 548 broth, with barley or sago cubes, larded cushion of, braised cutlets (cold) (chaud-froid) ’ or mutton essence farce quenelles fillets, breaded braised . . rolled small forcemeat fritters goulash olives . . and ham pie . . quenelles rolls . . souffle stew, brown . . white stuffing supreme of . . tendrons of . . timbale of time for baking Veau (Veal) blanquette de boudins de . . brisotins de, a la bouquetiere carrc de, garni cervelles do, ala Mila a la poulette an beurre noir coquilles de . . cotes or cotelettes de (See rtfso Cotelettes de Veau) croquettes de escalopes de . . filets de, a la Caroline a la Colbert a la fermiere a la I longroise . a la Russe a la Savoisienne a la Viennoise . Milanaise a la Talleyrand. a la Victoria chartreuse de, a la Crecj de petits, a la Garibaldi mignons de, a la princess foie de (see Foie de veau) . . fricandeau de, a la Regence fricandelles de, au gratin sauce tomate fricassee, allemande. . 911 428 601 545 547 911 181 414 420 421 416 972 419 420 433 422-3 [O, 428 429 433 410 971 549 429 432 127 410 352 410 602 413 413 413 354 411 358 414 547 415 416 416 414 415 415 417 417 417 546 416 417 418 415 415 41-5 41S olives de . . . . . . 420 papillotes de, a la Main tenon 421 paupiettes de, a la jardiniere 420 a la Toscane . . . . 421 pieds de (see Pieds de veau) 421-2 pique aux epinards . . . . 601 poitrine de, a la Milanaise . . 603 farcie . . . . . . 602 potage de . . . . .. 225 aux queues de, a ITndienne 224 quenelles de, a la Marengo . . 422 a la Tyrolienne . . . . 423 a la Villeroi .. .. 423 ragout de . . . . .. 430 ris de (see Ris de veau) . . 423-7 rognons de, a la Bordelaise . . 431 a la Demidoff .. .. 431 aux oeufs brouilles . . 430 croquettes de . . . . 358 sautes . . . . . . 431 rond de, farci. . . . . . 603 rouelles de . . . . . . 428 roulade de, au Madere . . 430 rouladines de. . .. .. 428 saute a la Marengo .. .. 433 selle de, aux tomates farcies 603 Prince Orloff . . . . 602 souffle de . . . . ... 429 supreme de, a I’aspic . . 549 tendrons de, a la jardiniere . . 429 a la Palestine . . . . 430 tete de (calf’s head) . . .. 431 timbales de, a la Cardinal . . 432 alaMarechale .. .. 432 (See also Veal) Vegetable Marrow aux fines herbes 628 au gratin . . . . . . 627 baked.. . . . . .. 627 crepinettes . . . . . . 377 in season .. . . . . 39 stuffed . . . . . . 627 Vegetables (Legumes) 20, 36, 617-67 to blanch . . . . . . 129 cold chartreuse of . . .. 374 cooking of .. .. .. 617 hints on boiling .. .. 128 hints in choosing . . . . 37 macedoine of .. .. 411 plain boiled .. .. .. 617 preserved, to heat up . . 667 purees . . . . . . 207 salad, mixed . . . . . . 703 in stock . . . . . . 96 Venaison (see also Chevreuil, Venison) cassolettes de .. .. 3561123 GENERAL INDEX. Venaison, cotelettes cle, aux marrons 534 ciiissot de, a la Richemond 536 escalopes de, a la Polonaise. . 534 handle de, a la Dominique rotie selle cle, rotie Venison (Venaison) to carve cassolettes cutlets leg of . . neck and shoulder of roast haunch. . saddle time required for baking \'enitienne or Venetia bombe Vermicelles, consomme aux Vermicelli au lait, potage de Viande, glace de . . \'iennese coffee \hnegar (vinaigre) Volaille (Poultry) (see also Poulet) ailerons de, a la Creole attriotes de, a la Vaudoise ballotine de, a la Cardinal beignets de . . blanquette de, en demi-dei bombes de, a la Trianon a la Victoria bouchees de, a I’Andalouse boudins de (see Boudins de bouillon de, a I'Orge . . cannelons de. . cassolettes de, a la f’erigueu cliaud-froid de, a la Ceciard a la Norvegienne consomme de a la chiffonade . . 606 606 607 35. 39.41.43 986 356 534 607 to 7 606 607 127 83b 204 225 140 961; 119 490 496 491 3-19 502 568 569 567 187 352 356 557 563 187 186 187 187 frappe aux quenelles de cotelettes de (see Cotelettes de volaille) a la Melba . . . . 566 mignonnes tomate . . 569 coquilles de, truffee . . . . 354 creme de, a I'Argentieul . . 496 a I’ecarlate . . . . 565 a la Fran^aise .. .. 215 en tomates . . . . 562 crepinettes de, truffees . . 354 cromescpiis de . . . . 357 croustades de . . . . 725 croquettes de .. .. 358 cuisses de, a la Florentine . . 493 a la Wellington .. . 502 en papillotes aux epinard 492 darioles de, a la Chartreuse.. 567 a la cliplomate .. .. 559 dormettes de, a la Janette . . 570 epigrammes de, a la Villeroi 502 essence de . . . . . . 140 farce dc . . . . . . 178 filets de, a la Cecile . . .. 493 chevaliere . . . . 724 Volaille (Poultry),llletsde,ala Helder 491 a la marcelle . . . . 502 a la supreme . . .. 502 turban de . . .. 490 foie de (see Foie de volaille) frappe, consomme de .. 187 friandines de . . . . 359 galantine de .. .. .. 55b kari de, a la Madras . . . . 493 mayonnaise de, .^le.xandra . . 564 chevaliere . . . . 561 niedaillons de, a la Careine . . 478 a I’imperiale . . . . 561 mousseline de . . . . 495 pains de (see Pains de volaille) 492 ]iahnettes de, a la Valeska . . 563 pillaff de . . . . . . 497 puree de . . . . . . 216 quenelles de . . . . . . 484 ^ consomme aux .. .. 1S7 a ITtalienne . . . . 502 ragout de, a la Toulousicnnc 494 rissoles de, a ITndicnnc . . 365 salade de . . . . . . 712 souffle de (see Souffle de volaille) 495 supreme de, a la Helene . . 494 a la royale . . . . 502 Velours .. .. .. 719 tartines de, en surprise . . 562 timbales, Prince de Galles . . 564 truffee, coquilles de . . . . 354 crepinettes de . , . . 354 turban de filets de . . . . 490 Vol-au-vent (puff pastry crust) . . 370 a la Chambord . . . . 370 a la duchesse . . . . 370 a la finanjiere . . . . 370 a la Toulouse . . . . 370 de fruits a la \'ersailles . . 819 de poisson a la Chambord . . 313 de ris de veau . . . . 429 ■yY^AFERS (see also Gaufres), brandy 957 cheese Swiss . . vanilla Waiting at table .. Walnut (noix) and celerj? mayonnaise cake . . Wasting fuel M'ater biscuits ices . . icing . . ^^■atercress butter sauce .. Water-fowl, hanging of . . Wedding cake Weights and measures and tneir equivalents Welsh rarebit Westphalia ham . Whisky, sour cocktail 883 93« 939 995-97 39 930 .978 953 •829-31 138 176 158 36 928 887 604 982 9821124 the new century cookery bOok. PAGE Whitebait (blanchailles). . .. 302 in season . . . . . . 39 Whiting (merlan). . . . . . 39, 40 baked . . . . . . 897 fillets, gratin style . . . . 293 Jewish style . . . . 294 forcemeat .. . . .. 177 fried (see also Merlan) 294, 913 ‘souffle . . . . . . 294 Whip cream, to . . . . . . 130 Whipped syllabub . . . . 823 Whisk whites of eggs, to. . . . 130 White fish sauce .. .. .. 163 sauce, simple . . . . 163 with sweetbread .. 915 Widgeon (see also Sarcelle) 36, 39, 43 Wild boar (see also Sanglier) .. 41 duck (see Canard sauvage) 36, 38,43 fowl, in season .. .. 38 geese, in season . . . . 38 Wine jelly .. .. ., .. 785-6 mulled . . . . . . 980 sauce . . . . . . .. 162 Wines, the service of . . . . 997 temperature of .. .. 998 Winter salad . . .. .701 Wood as fuel .. . . .. 54 Woodcocks (coq du Bruyere) . . 36, 39 to carve .. .. .. 991 toast .. .. .. .. 890 with oysters . . .. .. 614 time for baking .. .. 128 YARMOUTH cheese straws .. 881 Yeast batter . . .. .. 135 Yolks of eggs, how to keep . . 978 York ham, how to cook . . . . 603 Yorkshire pudding . . . . 970 rarebit . . . . . . 890 sauce . . . . . . 170 Yule cake .. .. .. 928 2ABAJONE creme .. .. 769 Zampins farcis . . .. 457 Zephires (zephyrs) a la Montglas 591 a la Parmentier . . . . 873 de canard sauvage .. .. 528 de crabes a la royale .. 321 de foie-gras (see Foie-gras) .. 576 Zephyrs de homard a la Russe . . 234 filets de soles en .. .. 330 Zwiebach (German rusks) .. 976 INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS ^NNA potato mould Ananas a la Mascotte. . glace Reine Alexandra Andouillettes of game in cases Angel cake tin Apple amber fritters Apricot pudding, cold Artichoke mould . . Page 650 826 835 530 945 752 76s 788 347 gACON, manner of cutting up . . Bain-marie Baking sheets Banana Chartreuse Basting tin Batons de caviar . . Bavarian apple cake Bavarois a la vanille Becassines braisees aux choux . . Beef, Continental mode of cutting English mode of cutting up. . joints, etc., used for entrees Beignets de pommes souffles a la vanille . . Bird’s nest and egg mould Boiling pots Bombe mould 34 103 70 776 84 858 810 772 517 27 28 435 765 767 847 76. 77 836 Bombe, rustique a la moderue . . 847 de volaille a la Trianon 568 Border, chestnut . . 775 lobster, cold . , 316 moulds 75.658 pear .. 748 Bordure a la Princesse de Galles 773 de homard, froid 316 de marrons, Chantilly 775 i de poires a la reine . . 748 Bottle j ack 83 Braised artichoke hearts . . 380 cabbage rolls .. 371 ham .. 605 ox-tails with cauliflower 446 snipe, with cabbage 517 spinach with beef marrow . . 382 wild duck 527 Braising pans 68, 86 Braisoire .. 86 Bretzel 944 Brioches a la Rochefort . . 873 Brochettes d’agneau a la Tnrbigo .392 Broche spit, turned by d®g 57 Broiler or griller . . 87 Buche de Noel en surprise S20 de tomates a la Rossini 888 Burnt sugar cream 7S1A D VERTISEMENTS. 1125 When buying Corn Flour remember this— Brown & Poison’s “ Patent " Corn Flour is the product of 50 years’ of expert manufacturing, and marks the standard in point of flavour, purity, and concentrated strength. This Corn Flour goes so much farther and serves you so much better than others that, even although it is a trifle higher in cost, it is often cheapest in the end. Remember Brown & Poison’s “ Patent” and refuse substitutes. The Cake=making of to=day is easily mastered when you have got into the way of using “Paisley Flour” Trade Mark. —the sure raising powder— and it is easy getting into the way. Mix one part “Paisley Flour” with eight parts ordinary flour and proceed as usual. “Paisley Flour” mixes more evenly than baking powders, and is an excellent raiser, therefore the result is an evenly raised light cake; and besides that “ Paisley Flour ” gives an added fineness of texture and flavour. Made by BROWN & POLSON, I I Index coniinned p. 1126.126 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. PAFETIERE, French . . ^ Turkish Cailles roties a la St. Antoine Caisses d’ecrivisses Cake, Bavarian apple chocolate mocha or coffee raspberry- savoy stra-wberry, icerl top. design for Calf’s brains in rice croute head, to carve Canapes aux ceufs farcies aux olives farcies Canard sauvage a la Nemrode . . Caramel ice mould Carottes a la Favorite Carving, calf’s head chicken cluck . . . . . . 988, fo-wl . . . . . . 990- goose . . ham . . leg of mutton pork loin of pork . . pigeon saddle of mutton, etc. shoulder of mutton . . small bird turkey woodcock Casserole of chicken Casseroles .. Cas.solette cases .. . . .. 74, Cassolettes a I’epicurienne de gibier a la Medicis . . Cauliflower au gratin Caviare boats, small slices . . Celeri raves a la Tyrolienue Central range Chalet rustique a la Chantilly . . Champignons a la Provengale Chapon en Belle-vue Charlotte a la St. Jose de gaufrettes glacee de poires a I’Imperiale ice mould Russe a la Plombieres Chartreuse de bananes de cailles a la Reine Eugenie d’eperlans a la St. Mancie . . de filets de veau, a la Crepy. . de legumes a la Quirinal mould, plain . . Chaud-froid of capon de foie-gras en caisses de poularde a I’ambassadrice de volaille a la Ceclard Cheese creams, cold cream timbales Chec.se souffles, baked 884 Chestnut border . . 775 Chic-chicken, roast 610 Chicken, to carve 990 casserole of . . 481 chaud-froid of 559 cream with tongue . . 565 kromeskis 357 mayonnaise of 564 quenelles 484 and lamb’s bread stew 494 and liver souffles 492 and veal timbales k6o Chocolate cake . . . . 813 Chopping block 70 knife and saw 69 Choux-fleur au gratin 637 Christmas pudding 736 Cocotte pan 860 Coeurs d’artichauts Maraichere . . 380 Coke grill (Main’s) '88 Colander, vegetable 618 Concombre en surprise 232 braise a la Moelle 386 Condiments [14-19 Consomme pan 68 straining stands .. 102,140 Cook’s sheath 74 Cooking range, English . . 59 French central 60 “ Mistress ” . . 59 Modern hotel. . 62 stove, French cottage 53. 59 oil stove 63 section of stove 58 Coquille mould 354 Coquilles de poisson 303 Corbeille de nougat 928 Cornet tin . . 806 Cotelettes de homard 345 de mouton a la gelee 536 de volaille a la Melba 366 Coupes de concombre Algerienne 385 frappes a la Capucine 837 a la Mikado .. 838 Crayfish, mayonnaise of . . 243 Creams, cheese, cold 886 ducklings, small 577 ham and peas 721 Creme de jambon et pois. . 721 au fromage 886 aux fruits a la Montfleuri 826 renversee 781 de volaille a I’ecarlate 565 Crepinettes de foie-gras . . 372 Cromesquis de volaille 357 Croquettes d’huitres au jambon . . 856 Croustade cup 530 Croutes de homard 869 Cucumber with beef marrow 386 salad with cream 699 Culinary thermometer 66 utensils 67-75 Cutlet bat . . 73 PAGE 964 966 613 243 810 813 933 807 931 808 929 414 987 248 86s 527 831 376 987 990 , 989 -1-2 989 985 986 984 984 991 986 98s 991 988 991 481 92 , 354 244 355 355 637 859 858 376 60 992 375 557 794 793 845 844 794 776 582 300 546 374 777 557 571 558 557 886 886INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS. 1127 Cutlet, trimmed . . . . . . 390 uiitrimmecl .. .. 411 Cutters, paste . . , . . . 72 pARIOLE decorations suggestions for 537. 575. 585. 587. 792 Darioles de cailles a la Rossini . . 722 de poulet a la diplomate . . 591 Darnes de truites en Belle-vue . . 326 Decorations suggested 361, 537, 585, 587 Deep frying-pan . . . . 89, 102 Dessert ices .. .. .. 834 Diagram of ox . . . . . . 28 of sheep ... . . . . 29 Dish, entree . . . , . . 72 frozen, ice-shaped . . . . 848 gratia . . . . 72, 379 of pressed beef . . . . 543 of rissoles . . . . . . 364 modern vegetable . . . . 617 souffle omelet . . . . 680 Dominos a la Rochelais .. .. 231 Drainer, wire pastry . . . . 75 Dredger, flour . . . . . . 75 Dripping pan . . . . . . 82, 84 Duchesses de Lax a la Haakon . . 870 Dutch oven . . . . . . 84 Duck, to carve . . . . . . 988-9 quenelles of . . . . . . 469 supreme of . . . . . . 467 Duckling creams, small . . . . 577 EGG bowl . . .. .. 73 canapes stuffed . . . . 248 timbales with anchovies .. 721 Electric cooking apparatus . . 64 Entre-cotes grilles Edouard VII. 445 Entree dish . . . . 72, 306 Erench cafetierc .. central cooking-range charcoal grill. . cottage stove fruit tart hare pie kitchen Fricandeau pan Fritters, apple celeriac vanilla Frying basket pan QATEAU an chocolat de Raises en surprise au moka mould de pommes a la Bavaroise rustique, chantilly . . de Savoie St. Emilion . . St. Georges . . Victoria . . - . . Gaufre iron Gauge, syrup Gelee panachee a la Russe Genoise mould Glace a la grappe de Muscat a la Vanille .. rochet Volcano tutti-frutti . . aux Raises Gondoles a la Clanet Goose, to carve liver scallops Grater Gratin dish 964 60 87 53. 59 805 588 45 86 765 376 767 89, 102 89,102 813 808 933 75 810 992 931 809 82s 932 939 63 786 75 830 828 832 834 830 236 989 573 73 moulds 347 i Green pea and cucumber gondolas 236 Entrees, joints of beef, etc., for 435 Gridiron 87 Epigrammes de faisan a la jardiniere 509 1 Grillers 87 , de saumon a la diplomate 320 1 Epinards farcis a la Moelle 382 J{AM, to carve 985 Escalopes de foie-gras a la Bagration 573 and peas creams 721 souffles in casseroles . . 555 PANCY and dessert ices 834 i Hare pie, French . . S88 Filets de boeuf a la Viennoise 438 1 Hatelet skewers . . 3,34 de Pre-sale aux primeurs 403 "Herald” coal range SO de sole a la Diane . . 720 Hors-d’oeuvre, condiments for . . 226 de sole a la Montpensier 286 selection of . . 233 de sole St. Georges 283 1 Hot-pot 525 de turbot a la Florentine 266 Hotel Regina, Paris, kitchen of . . 44 Fireproof pots 490, 604 terrine 509 JCE-BOX or refrigerator 74 Fish creams, small 719 1 cave or freezing cabinet 843 Flan de fraises a la Suisse 804 freezer, double 827 aux fruits 80s mould, charlotte 844 rings 69 moulds .. 828,829,830,831 Flavouring ingredients ..114-19 pudding mould 837 Forcing-bag 73 Iced chocolate souffle 798 Forks, kitchen 74 maraschino souffle 798 Four seasons salad 711 ! peach souffle . . 796 Fowl, jointing 990-1-2 pineapple 83^ Freezing pot and spatula 827 souffle 8431128 CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. THE NEW Iced strawberry cake timbale . . Ices, fancy and dessert Italian ice pudding JAMBON braise en surprise Jelly straining stand . . Jerusalem artichokes with risot Jointing a small bird Julienne vegetables, to cut t^ETTLE, fish or asparagus turbot Kitchen, French family mansioi forks . . Hotel Regina knives large hotel spoons utensils Kromeskis, chicken T AMB, mode of cutting up Lamb’s bread tartlets bread and peas timbales Lark timbales, small Lobster border, cold croutes, fried cutlets salad .. 812 834 834 605 102 384 991 191 68, 77 _ 78 L. 45 74 44 , 73. 74 45 73. 74 67-75 357 30 370 368 513 316 869 345 702 Menus : Wedding breakfast of Princess Louise and the Duke of Fife (July 27, 1889) 1037 jyjACARONI shape with sweetbread 367 Main’s coke grill . . . . 88 potato and vegetable steamer 80 Maraschino ice mould . . . . 829 Marmites . . Matelote de cervelle en crofite . Mayonnaise of chicken of crayfish of penguin’s eggs de turbot, moderne . . de volaille, Reine Alexandra Meat screen steamer Medallions de poularde, Gauloise de poularde, Reine Alexandra Melon mould Menus: April menu, an .. An thentic menu of Napoleon III. 1039 Dubois, M. Urbain, auto- graph menu of {18 5 5) . . 105 Facsimile of royal menus February menu, a King George IV. bill of fai'e March menu, a Prince and Princess Charles of Denmark’s wedding break fast (Jidy 22, 1896) Prince and Princess of M^ales’ wedding breakfast -Royal gala dinner menu Skeleton of menu, a . . State banquet of H.M. the late Queen Victoria 94, 182 414 564 243 590 324 564 82 723 477 831 1004 M'elsh menu, piped Mikado cups Mincing knife machine " Mistress ” cooking-range Mocha or coffee cake Modern hotel cooking-range Mortar and pestle Mosaic de foie-gras a la diplomate Moscovite aux mandarines Moulds . . . . 347, 616, 770, 834 Mousse de caneton a la Tivollier 579 etjambon Mousseline de caneton, Moresco. de ris de veau a la harlequin Muscat grape ice mould . . Mushrooms, Provenqe style Mutton, Continental mode of cutting up. . English mode of cutting up leg of, to carve saddle of, to carve . . shoulder of, to carve broth vegetables, to cut J^EAPOLITAN ice mould Niokis a la Nantua Noix de veau a la Viart . . Nougat basket (J]UFS glacees a la F'lorida de penguin a la Carola Oil cooking stove . . Olives a la Madras Omelet pan Omelette glacee a la Waldorf Oven, Dutch pastry Ox, diagram of the Ox-tails, braised, with cauliflower Oyster mould and ham croquettes pALMETTES de volaille Valeska Pains de volaille a la Creole Pans, bain-marie boiling braising 1050 838 70 75 59 933 62 70. 73 570 817 724 577 550 830 375 32 30 986 986 98s 220 1030-4 cocotte 860 1003 consomme 68 1040 frying . . . . .89, 102 1004 omelet ■ . 674 pipkin 690 saute .. 91 1036 stew . . • • 69, 71 stoneAvare 92 1035 IWste cutters 72 1005 Pastry 133, 134 1001 drainer, wire . . 75 oven .. 85 1000 pincher and wheel 74 828 877 548 928 846 590 63 251 674 853 84 85 28 446 816 856 563 492 103 76. 77 68, 86INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS. Pate de gibier de lievre a la Fran9aise Pears, Hirondelle st\de . . Percolator, Stevenson’s coffee . Perles, a la Gruyere Petits bateaux a repicurienne . chartreuses au jambon choux a la Lorraine . . en surprise cremes de poisson aux olives timbales de mauviette Pheasant, timbales of . . Pigeon, jointing . . Pineapple charlotte ice monlcl Pipkin pan Plum pudding Plnviers dores a la Martini Poires a la Hirondelle Poisson, coquilles de Pommes meringuees a la creme . Pork, mode of cutting up loin of, to carve Pot, double fireproof Pot-au-feu, vegetables for Pots, boiling Potato and vegetable steamer Ponding d’abricot a la Princesse de Noel souffle a la vanille Poulaide a la Dauphine . . Poulet en casserole a la Chevriot decoupe en chaud-froid saute a la Marengo . . Poultry, trussed . . Poussins rotis Precieuses de fraises Pressed beef Primrose border mould . . Punch a la Romaine Puree strainer Pyramide de poires a la Conde PAGE 589 814 966 859 458 371 876 719 513 583 991 794 829 690 736 51S 814 303 790 33 984 604 181 76. 77 80 788 736 743 560 48 T 486 559 487 126 610 764 543 774 851 lOI 747 QUAILS, timbale of Quenelles de canard anx pois de rognons a la Parmentiei de sanmon a la Royale. . de volaille Queues de boeuf a la Polonaise 581 469 362 321 484 446 .VGOUT de volaille Toulonsienne Raised game pie pie mould Range, French central English coal . . " Mistress ” . . Modern hotel Raspberry cake . . Rasping machine . . Rissoles, dish of . . Roast chic-chicken quails .Roasting crane, double section . . 494 589 312 60 59 59 62 S07 74 364 610 613 84 PACT- Roasting tin 68 before open range 82 before closed range . . 83 Roman punch 851 Russian charlotte. . 794 ribbon jelly .. 786 C ACCHAROMETER . . 6q Saddle of lamb . . 986 Salad basket 699 Salade de concombres a la creme 690 de homai'd 702 a la Rejane .. 709 qnatre saisons 711 Salamander 75 Saute pan . . 91 Savarin a la Moscovienne 754 moulds 770 Savoy cake • . 931 mould Scales and weights 73 Scalloped fish 303 Scallops, goose liver 573 Seasoning box 72 plants and herbs 114-19 Selle d’agneau a la dnchesse 600 Sheep, diagram of 29 Sirloin steaks, grilled 445 Skewers, hatelet . . 334 steel .. 74 Sheers ■ ■7^. 974 Smoked haddock timbale 313 Snipe, braised, with cabbage 517 Sofbet an Mocha . . 830 Souffle a la Carmen 796 frappe au marasquin 798 a la Reine Isabelle 843 praline au chocolat . . .. 798 Sonftles an fromage 884 de homard a la Bourgeoise 307 de jambon en casseroles 555 aux pois nouveaux . . • • 383 Toulonsienne en casseroles 366 Soup or consomme pan . . '68 strainers 102, 140 Spice box . . 74 Spices 114-19 Spoon-holder 75 Spoons, kitchen 72. 73- 74 Steamer, English . . 81 German household . . 81 institution 81 nneat .. ... 81 "potato and vegetable 80 vegetable 81 Stew-pans . . .. 69,71 Stock-pot . . • ■ 67, 94 Stoneware cooking pots . . 92 Stove, French cottage ■■ 53.59 oil 63 section of 58 Strainer, consomme or jelly 102, 140 pointed 72 puree . . lOI1130 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK. Strainer, soup Strawberry cake, iced ice mould tart, Swiss timbale, iced. . Stuffed egg canapes olive canapes Sugar boiler Sultane aux fruits glaces Supreme de canard a la marquise de framboise . . Sweetbread timbale, cold Swiss cheese pearls strawberry tart Syrup gauge 140 808 830 804 812 248 86s 73 822 467 807 552 885 804 65 'pARTELETTES de ris d’agnean a la Mirabeau Tartines a la Florentine . . Thermometer, culinary . . Timbale de cailles en gelee de creme de fromage de faisaii a la Rothschild de filets de sole de filets de sole Orientale de fruits a la Louis Napoleon 370 868 66 581 886 583 279 287 733 de jambon et pois a la Bayonne 554 de merluche, Milanaise .. 313 mould . . . . . . 657 decorations .. 347,361,554 Napolitaine . . . . . . 367 d’oeufs a I’anchois .. .. 721 de ris d’agneau a la princesse 368 de ris de veau a la reiiie .. 552 rustique aux fraises glacees 812 a la Toulouse .. . . 560 Tivoli aux fraises . . . . . . 791 Tomato and nut timbales . . 387 Tongs, steak .. .. .. 71 Topinambours an risotto. . .. 384 Tournedos de boeuf a la Seymour 442 Tranches de sanmon a la Richelieu 325 Tray, wire . . . . . . 69 I’AGE Troufons de truites a la Grcque 333 Trussed poultry . . . . . . 126 Turban de Jilets de soles, Montpellier 331 de peches a la moderne . . 801 Turbot, moderne, mayonnaise de 324 Turbotin a la reine . . . . 269 Turkey, to carve . . . . . . 988 Types of moulds, various . . 616 utensils, culinary 67-75 yANILLA cream cream ice mould fritters souffle pudding 772 828 767 743 Veal, Continental mode of cutting up 32 English mode of cutting up and ham pie . . Vegetable colander dish . . scoops sheer .. steamer Vegetables, for julienne for mutton broth for pot-au-feu Vol-air-vent de fruits, Versailles 3T 433 618 617 75 71. 974 81 i8i 820 ■y^AFER charlotte tongs . . Wild duck, braised zephyrs of M'ire pastry drainer tray . . whisk . . Woodcock, carving 793 939 527 528 75 69 71 991 YULE log en surprise .. .. 820 2EPHIRES de canard sauvage a la Metropole .. .. 528 I.ONDON : THE BOTOLPH PRINTING WORKS, 8, GATE STREET, KINGSWAY, W.C.