Foods for 1HE rAT N, E, DAVIES L. R. C. P.22101848514Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20396508FOODS FOR THE FAT A TREATISE ON CORPULENCY, WITH DIETAR Y FOR ITS CURE By NATHANIEL EDWARD DAVIES LICENTIATE OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, ENGLAND LICENTIATE IN MIDWIFERY AND THE DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH, ETC. AUTHOR OF 'AIDS TO LONG LIFE,' 'MEDICAL MAXIMS,' ' NURSERY HINTS,' ETC. CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY T889 [All rights reserved]MIE055 WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY welMOmec No,CONTENTS. PAGE Introductory .... - v PART I. Corpulency - - - Paragraphs 1—13 9 Food Required, Amount of - - ,, 14—41 13 Food: its Uses and Ultimate Elimination ,, 42—52 21 Uses of Fat in the Body - - ,, 53—64 24 Evils of Over-eating, and Time for Meals ,, 65—69 27 Amount of Food to be Consumed - ,, 70—75 28 Exercise - - - - ,, 76—86 29 Stimulants in Corpulency - - ,, 87—96 32 Tea: its Use - - - - „ 97—105 34 Coffee „ - - - - ,, 106—108 37 Cocoa 109 38 Water and Aerated Drinks, etc. - ,, 110—113 38 PART II. Meat, Fish, Vegetables and Fruit Suitable for Fat People - - ,, 114—125 40 Examples of Dietary - - - - - - 46CONTENTS. iv Breakfast Dishes Soups - Fish - Gravy - Dinner Dishes - Vegetables Saccharin Fruits, Jellies, and Creams - Beverages Sauces for Fish, Meats, etc. - Index - Paragraphs 126—170 50 171—194 03 195—224 72 81 225—286 81 287—334 101 - 115 335—361 116 362—375 123 „ 376-401 126 133INTRODUCTORY. What constitutes robust health 1 A sound constitution and a lithe, active frame may truly be the answer, for without these the power of enjoying life, even under the most favourable circumstances, is to a great extent limited. If this be true, there are a large number of people of both sexes whose pleasure is to a considerable extent curtailed— though they may be in other respects fortunate—by the fact that their condition is incompatible with perfect health, and that their bulk renders exercise difficult, and in extreme cases impossible. The mode of life and dietary of the ordinary Englishman, especially when middle age is reached, undoubtedly tends to foster an accumulation of fat, that, if it does not destroy life directly, does so in very many cases indirectly, by preventing the victim from taking the exercise necessary to circulate the blood, keep the skin acting, and prevent congestion of those internal organs which by their free and healthy action eliminate the waste products of the system. The disease of Corpulency—for a disease it is—creeps on so insidiously and slowly, and the individual becomes so entangled in its toils, that he or she finds, when it becomes necessary to grapple with it, the power to do so curtailed, andvi INTRODUCTORY. the effort of taking the necessary steps so burdensome as to be practically impossible or too painful to continue. Happily for such people, science comes to their aid, and, without curtailing very much the pleasures of the table, the diet may be so arranged that, without any danger to health or length of life, a person may slowly and safely reduce bulk and fat to a degree compatible with enjoyment. How may this be done 1 A medical adviser who says to the victim of corpulency, ' You must avoid a diet containing sugar and starch'—the principal fatteners—generally gets the reply, ' But, doctor, I don't know what dofor the ordinary individual does not make dietetics a study, and the reply is perfectly true in the majority of cases. The victim purges and starves himself for a few days, doing serious harm, and making the remedy worse than the disease ; or he consults some quack, who reduces his balance at the bank, but not his corporeal redundancy. Under these circumstances, life becomes a burden, and if the victim be well-to-do—and generally he is —he is debarred the pleasures of hunting, fishing, shooting, and all other enjoyable outdoor exercises. The intention of this little work is to explain as plainly as possible how fat is accumulated in the system, and the foods that form it in excess; and also to give the sufferer a choice of dishes and foods for each meal that will not add to his discomfort, but, if persevered in, will reduce him to proper dimensions. Care has been taken to allow just that amount of food containing fat and starch that is well within the limit of safety. The task of the dietitian is made easier now a substitute for sugar has been found in saccharin, a harmless product three hundred times sweeter than sugar; and the author, fromvii INTRODUCTORY. personal experiments, can assuro the reader that for all house- hold purposes where it has been necessary to use sugar, such as in tea, coffee, punch negus, jellies, stewed fruits, apple- sauce, mint-sauce, etc., saccharin is a prefect substitute. As a dietary that produces fat often produces biliousness and its attendant evils, those who suffer from this ailment may by availing themselves of the foods herein contained avoid much trouble. The author as a medical man has frequently seen the need of a work of this kind, for diet is as necessary as physic in the treatment of disease, and a dietetic guide relieves the busy practitioner of the tedious process of naming all the articles which the invalid or the sufferer from corpulency may indulge in. Sherborne, Atigust, 1889.FOODS FOR THE FAT. PART I. CORPULENCY. 1. Of all the evils to which humanity is subject as middle-age creeps on, there is not one more common than excess of fat, or one that causes greater discomfort, or indirectly tends more to shorten life. In men this begins to show itself between the ages of forty and fifty, in women a few years earlier, and though it may not be a disease in itself—unless it attains enormous proportions—it often induces disease by impeding the victim from taking that exercise that nature demands to stimulate the functions of the different organs that keep the body in robust health. 2. About a twentieth part of the weight of the male body should be of fat, and of the female a little more, but it is seldom the balance is so evenly kept. Even where this is greatly exceeded, some people manage to enjoy life and to take a certain amount of exercise, at least in youth; for Daniel Lambert weighed thirty-two stone at the age of twenty-three years, and could then walk from Woolwich to London; subse- quently he attained the enormous weight of fifty-two stone, and died at the age of thirty-eight years. ' Dr. Warrel re- cords the case of a young married woman, who at eighteen was thin and delicate. She died at the age of fifty-two. The thickness of fat on the chest was four inches, on the abdomenIO FOODS FOR THE FAT. [y eight; her heart, after death, weighed thirty-six ounces (ordi- nary weight, eight).' Thus in extreme cases one half, or even four-fifths, of the body may be a mass of fat. 3. Some races of men are more subject to excess of fat than others, but whether this depends upon heredity or mode of life is an open question. After the age of forty, particularly in women, from reasons that may be surmised, excess of fatbecomes almost the rule. This is more common in single females than in those who have had the care of rearing families. Again, the Hottentot is almost always protuberant, the German is proverbially fat, and the Frenchman generally so about the belly ; the Scotch are thin as a rule ; so are the Irish. What the Englishman is may be judged by the satire of the age, and the jolly John Bull sort of man depicted in the pages of Punch may be supposed to represent the national tendency. 4. Among the determining causes of corpulency, the first is, of course, excess of food, more especially certain kinds of food, and too little work, though some people, curiously enough, may be very fat and still have poor appetites; some seem to get fat, eat what they will,* while others remain thin on the most luxurious diet. Drink has also its influence. Fat people usually take a large quantity of liquid, and in some of its forms, as in sweet wines and malt liquors, it is very fattening. 5. Deficient muscular exercise, by diminishing the amount of wear of tissue (oxidation of tissue, as physiologists call it), favours obesity ; and since, as a rule, the stouter the person, the less capable he is of taking exercise, these two conditions react one upon the other to the advantage of fat-production. Nervous influence has much to do with fat; the high-strung, nervous individual is seldom obese. On the other hand, the stupid, heavy, non-intellectual person, or the idiot, is generally flabby and fat. 6. All those states of the system that prevent the proper circulation of the blood favour obesity, by limiting its oxy- * Very plain diet may mean very fattening diet indeed, as will be seen further on.la] CORPULENCY. , " genizing power, by preventing its conversion into carbonic acid and water, and its elimination from the system by the breath. In this way exercise, by rapidly circulating the blood through the lungs, gets rid of fat from the system.* 7. The power of enjoyment is limited in the corpulent person, as exertion is attended with breathlessness, which forbids active exercise. Then, as a matter of course, follows con- stipation (as the muscular tissue of the bowels gets flabby), and piles and varicose veins come to add to the victim's discomfort. The fat man often ails without apparent cause, is more liable to cold and diarrhoea due to the plethoric and congested state of the mucous membranes, and, dependent on a congested state of the system, to giddiness, headache, flushed face, and a bloated countenance. 8. 1 The mental activity,' says Dr. Alchin, ' of the over-fat is variable, and many external causes tend to modify it; but the temperament is proverbially easy-going, indolent, and lethargic, especially after meals, although very frequently interrupted by attacks of peevishness and irritability, or by unusual somno- lence and quiet. Examples, however, of considerable intellec- tual attainments are not unknown among the corpulent.' 9. The fat man is liable to profuse sweating. This, being highly acid, causes chafing in the groins, with painful eruptions. "Where this takes place, the parts become sore and inflamed. He is also more subject to gout, and his urine always contains uric acid to excess ; therefore, the same may be said of his liability to rheumatism. He is more liable to disease than a thin person, with this disadvantage, that ailments in him run a more unfavourable course, and he bears treatment worse. Further, he is more difficult to treat on account of his inability to stand lowering measures, and suffers from debility longer during convalescence. 10. When too much food is indulged in, the internal organs * See 'Aids to Long Life,' by the same author, page 193. From that work part of this section has been drawn. The evils of corpulency and other causes of premature decay are treated at length in that book.12 FOODS FOR THE FAT. r„. become embarrassed by the waste in the system that is not eliminated, and a feeling of weakness ensues, which quickly passes away if exercise is taken and a little abstinence prac- tised. Diet influences the ch racter of men and nations, meat-eating people being more energetic and stronger than those that live mostly on vegetables, t Growth and tempera- ment are also influenced by food, and in the case of bees even the sex.J 11. With age corpulency increases permanently, unless some exhausting disease such as chronic bronchitis or diabetes come on, so that excessive fat should always be regarded as a grave matter, in every way likely to shorten life, to say nothing of making it a burden by its encumbrance. Death by faintness from an overloaded heart or an overloaded stomach, by apoplexy from congestion and weakness of the blood- vessels, by bronchitis or dropsy from poorness of the blood and the languid state of the circulation, often terminates life about the beginning of the sixth decade. 12. ' Recognising that accumulation of fat is a perversion of nutrition, which, if once established, and with a strong heredi- tary predisposition, cannot be cured, it follows that we should endeavour to prevent as far as possible its increase by avoid- ance of those factors which science tells us are favourable to its development. The cardinal rule in any procedure that may be adopted is to avoid heroic treatment; for though thereby the fat may be diminished, the result may be attained by establishing a worse state of the body.' * ' Dr. Dalt<m states that the entire quantity of food required every twenty-four hours by a man in full health and taking free exercise is of meat 16 oz., bread 19 oz., fat oz., and water 52 oz.' Jackson, the prize-fighter, in training lived on meat and stale bread only, with of course water.' + This applies with equal force to animals. The lion and tiger are stronger, fiercer, and more active than the ox or the sheep. X ' If by accident the queen bee dies or is lost, the working bees (which are sexually undeveloped) select two or three eggs, which they hatch in large cells, and then feed the maggots on a stimulating jelly different to that supplied to the other maggots, thus producing a queen bee.'— Newsholme., j CORPULENCY. % '3 13 The following, then,; are the objects aimed at in the rules inculcated and the diet laid down in the following pages : ' . 1. To improve by exercise the muscular tissue, and oy diet to keep the muscles of the body in firm fibre and tone. 2. To maintain the blood in its normal and healthy com- position. 3. To regulate the quantity of fluid in the body, by freeing the action of the skin and kidneys. 4. To prevent the deposit of fat, by eliminating from the diet an excess of those articles which create it, but are not otherwise useful in the economy. 5. To allow quite sufficient food, and even many luxuries, so as to satisfy the cravings of nature and the wants of the system, and to do this in a gradual, harmless manner, t FOOD REQUIRED, AMOUNT OF. 14. ' It may fairly be concluded,' says Dr. Pavy,J ' that the requirements as regards food vary with exposure to different conditions. According to the expenditure that is taking place, so in a good scheme of dieting should materials be supplied which are best calculated to yield what is wanted. Under exposure to hard labour and inactivity, and to a high and low temperature, the consumption of material in the system differs, and the supply of food should be regulated accordingly.' * Luigi Cornaro, a Venetian gentleman of the seventeenth century, after a wild youth which destroyed his health, restored himself after the age of forty to perfect health by a most rigid diet. He had each day a careful allowance of 12 oz. of food—bread, meat, and yolk of egg-and 14 oz of light Italian wine. He wrote his book at eighty-three, and lived on his hermit-fare until nearly a hundred years old, and enjoyed excellent health. His wife, who we may presume fared in the same manner, lived nearly as long. t A friend of the author's proposes fitting up a sanatorium for treating sufferers from corpulency, dieting in the manner recommended in this work. X ' Food and Dietetics,' by F. W. Pavy, M. D. J. and A. Churchill, London.14 FOODS FOR THE FAT. f,s. 15. The laws of nature,' he continues, 'are such as to c dace to an adaptation of the supply of food to the demand We are all conversant with the fact that exercise and exposure to cold—conditions which increase the demand for food- sharpen the appetite, and thus lead to a larger quantity of material being consumed, while conversely a state of inactivity and a warm climate tell in an opposite manner and reduce the inclination for food. A badly-fed labourer is capable of per- forming but a slight day's work, and a starving man falls an easy victim to the effects of exposure to cold. 16. < Practically it is found that hard work is best performed under a liberal supply of nitrogen-containing food {i.e., meat) The reason is that it leads to a better nourished condition of the muscles and the body generally. Under the use of animal food which is characterized by its richness in flesMovmmg matter, the muscles are observed to be firmer and richer in solid constituents than under subsistence on food of a vegetable natureand it is also obvious that under animal food there is not that danger to corpulency which obtains under a vegetable diet, unless from that vegetable diet he eliminated those particular articles that contain too large a percentage of sugar and starch. To sum up, science teaches us that a liberal supply of meat is necessary to maintain muscles in a good condition for work, as exercise is to make them firm and red, and the result of experience tends to confirm it. 17. None the less is it necessary to limit a meat diet and dilute it with a proper admixture of vegetable and other material, and only where it becomes a question of reducing corpulency does it matter what vegetable is taken for this purpose or relatively the amount. In these pages those vegetables only are given the percentage in which of the fattening principles is not in excess of what the system can bear. A large and varied choice still remains to satisfy the epicure and the gourmet. 18. In any dietary for the reduction of corpulence, it is necessary to bear this in mind, that there is a limit beyondFOOD REQUIRED, AMOUNT OF. 15 which it is not safe to go, and under no circumstances should the loss of weight exceed one pound per week. If this should be so, the diet is not properly adjusted with regard to its con- stituents, but is simply slow starvation, a result not aimed at in these pages, or desirable. 19. Let us proceed to consider the amount of mixed food necessary to sustain life, health, and strength under different circumstances. This can be calculated to a nicety, but the amount taken must have some relation to the amount of muscular work that the individual is called upon to exercise, the season, and a few other surroundings.* 20. It will be asked, What is the ordinary amount of mixed food an ordinary-sized person should take? An average healthy male adult of medium weight and height, and per- forming a moderate amount of work, requires 4| oz. of nitrogenous food,f 3 oz. of fats (hydro-carbons), 14J oz. of carbo-hydrates, J 1 oz. of salts. This diet is ecpiivalent to a little over 46 oz. of moist solid food. 21. The above ingredients would be contained in f of a lb. of meat and a little less than 2 lb. of bread, or in 17 hens' eggs of ordinary size, supposing eggs only were eaten, which it is needless to say would be impossible. * Prison diet where hardjlabour is done consists of 184 oz. of solid dry food per week. This 1S4 oz. is made up of meat, bread, cocoa, oatmeal, milk, treacle, barley-meal, salt, cheese, flour, suet, carrots, onions, potatoes This would mean about 52 oz. of moist food per day ; for of course the water is not reckoned when the amount of food is chemically considered. Banting's dietary is about 10 oz. a day of dry food, which is bare subsis- tence diet, buc it4contains a large proportion of muscle-forming ingredients too large for continued safety. + This embraces meat of all sorts—eggs, milk, and certain constituents of vegetables. X Carbo-hydrates mean bread, sugar, and all vegetables containing starch and sugar.FOODS FOR THE FAT. 22. Dr. Lyon Playfair lias estimated the quantity of diet required under varying conditions of work as under : TViTnoniT' vnncj Car bonaceous. Subsistence only 2-0 oz. 13-3 oz. Quietude 2-5 „ 14-5 „ Moderate exercise 4-2 „ 23-2 „ Active work ... 5-5 „ 26 3 „ Hard work 6-5 „ 26-3 „ 23. It will thus be seen that subsistence diet would be re- presented by about 28 oz. of ordinary moist food per day, and hard work diet by about 60 oz. of the same, and here we will take the amount of food allowed by those who, like Banting, form a dietary for the reduction of corpulency. 24. It is admitted that the human body decreases in fat if the daily food consists of the three great groups of food in the following proportions: Albuminous food about 4£ oz., Fatty food If oz., Starchy food (carbo-hydrates) 5|- oz. This means, under ordinary circumstances, about 22 oz. of moist food daily, and this is not sufficient in amount for safety. 25. Banting, Ebstein, and Oertel, the three men whose systems have been largely adopted for reducing obesity, advocate the different foods in the following proportions : Albuminous. Fat. Carbo-Hydrates. Banting ... 6 i IT 2f Ebstein 34 3 • Oertel 54 to 6 24 to 34 26. ' In taking appetite as a guide in regulating the supply of food,' says Dr. Pavy, ' it must not be confounded with a29] FOOD REQUIRED, AMOUNT OF. 17 desire to gratify the palate. When food is not eaten too quickly and the diet is simple, a timely warning is afforded by the sense of satisfaction experienced as soon as enough has been taken, and not only does a disinclination arise, but the stomach even refuses it if this amount be far exceeded. With a variety of food, however, and especially food of an agreeable character to the taste, the case is different. Satiated with one article, the stomach is still ready for another, and thus, for the gratification of taste, and not to satisfy appetite, men are tempted to consume far more than is required, and also, it must be said, far more than is advantageous to health.' 27. Hospital diet furnishes a fair estimate of what is neces- sary under ordinary circumstances, and, taking Guy's as an example, it is found that the daily allowance is 29J oz. of solid food, apart from the liquids supplied. This amount would represent 16f oz. of water-free material. The food actually supplied consists of 4 oz. of cooked meat, 12 oz. of bread, 8 oz. of potatoes, 1 oz. of butter, f oz. of sugar, £ oz. of tea, and 3^ oz. of rice-pudding, made of rice, sugar, and milk. There is also a daily allowance of J pint of porter and 2J oz. of milk. This diet is sufficient for the wants of the system under a condition of freedom from labour. 28. Supposing this quantity of food were used for the re- duction of fat it would have to be given something in this way, and this will show the difference in the constituents of the food according to the use it is required for : 12 oz. of meat (see page 28), 3 oz. of butter, or fat, 4 oz. of bread, or dry toast, 10 oz. of vegetables, \ oz. of tea (sweetened with saccharin), 2 or 3 oz. of milk, and, instead of porter, a pint of claret, or other light wine (see page 33), daily. 29. In this case the above amount of food would be divided 218 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [30- into three meals—breakfast, lunch, and dinner; or breakfast, dinner, and tea, according to the habits of the individual— and the amount of starchy or farinaceous food is here so limited as even in extreme cases to be practically harmless. 30. A diet of this kind would be unendurable if there were no variety; but the endeavour of the author has been to give a large variety, once more reminding the sufferer that food formed on this basis requires a larger amount of exercise to keep the system in health than does the ordinary every-day diet of ordinary people. 31. Taking Mr. Banting's system first. The diet for re- ducing corpulency advocated by him is now considered to have been wrong, for it threw too much work upon the kidneys and starved the system elsewhere. Banting and his ideas have passed into well-merited oblivion. 32. The Ebstein formula, which has many adherents in Germany, consists in very much restricting the food eaten, giving a large portion of fat, and curtailing those articles of diet that contain sugar and starch, his theory being that fat assists in the body, by its transformation into heat, in elimi- nating other materials. It is not believed now that fat creates fat. It is believed that by its combustion in the economy it keeps up heat, and at the same time oxidizes waste, much in the same way as, if man were a railway engine, the blast of air acts on the fuel used in stoking. 33. The system of diet advocated by Oertel not only pro- vides for the gradual decrease of fat, but also prevents its reaccummulation, and at the same time restores tone to the heart, muscular and nervous systems, which excessive cor- pulency much impairs. 34. A very moderate curtailment on this system will be sufficient to reduce a corpulent person to respectable dimen- sions, if at the same time active riding or walking exercise be taken. Kecreation, by improving the quality of the blood, as well as by circulating it more rapidly, assists the oxidation— i.e., the consumption of tissue, especially of fatty tissue—and3g.] FOOD REQUIRED, AMOUNT OF. 19 that it does this may he shown by the fact that exercise absolutely increases the size of muscles, while it is at the same time reducing weight. 35. There is really no difficulty in reducing corpulence. The difficulty is to get the sufferer—generally easy-going and in- dolent—to carry out the necessary system, which is more or less irksome by the restraint it puts upon appetite, especially in those who perhaps may almost be said to ' live to eat' in- stead of ' eating to live.' It is also needless to say that any system, however good, for reducing redundancy of fat would be of no avail if the patient persists in eating and drinking between meals.* 36. Oertel draws two distinctions of obesity, namely, the slight form in which the organs of circulation are unaffected and where exercise is possible, and the more serious form, in which fat is deposited in the muscle of the heart, which is thereby dangerously weakened, and, as a corollary, the healthy action of all the other organs in the body is interfered with. 37. All who have made the treatment of obesity a study reduce considerably the amount of farinaceous food and sugar, the great offenders in contributing to the accumulation of fat; but all do not allow the same amount of aliment, and some of the dietaries—Banting's, for instance—would be simply slow starvation to a man who had to do an ordinary amount of hard mental or bodily work. 38. ' From 22 to 26 oz. of solids and about 35 oz. of liquids per day constituted Mr. Banting's allowance. If we allow for water chemically combined with the food, the daily amount of solids may be set down at from 11 to 13 oz.' Now, this is far from a generous allowance, even if it were of the most fattening materials, and no wonder he got thin on it. The diet tables of prisons, of London needlewomen, and that of the cotton operative during the Lancashire cotton famine, * See 'Aids to Long Life,' by.the same author. Chatto and Windus, London, pp. 283. 2—220 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [39- averaged, of nitrogenous matter (meat), 2-30 oz.; of fat, £ oz.; and of starches and sugars, ll£ oz. 39. Moleschott gives 23 oz. of dry food as about the average a healthy man during ordinary work ought to eat; this would be equal to nearly twice the amount of moist food. Assuming that this large amount of food were deprived of the great fat producers—sugar and starch—it is not too much to say that, with a fair amount of work, there would be no great fear of a person becoming obese on it. A very big man might find it a proper diet. 40. The following figures show what should be the relative height and weight of a person of adult age in good health: EXACT STATUEE. MEAN WEIGHT. ft. in. St. lb. lb. 5 1 - 8 8 or 120 5 2 - 9 0 >> 126 5 3 - 9 7 )> 133 5 4 - 9 13 139 5 5 - 10 2 » 142 5 6 - 10 5 >> 145 5 7 - 10 8 >> 148 5 8 - 11 1 >> 155 5 9 - 11 8 0 162 5 10 - 12 1 >> 169 5 11 - 12 6 >> 174 6 0 - 12 10 >) 178 41. It reads thus : a man in his clothes, of 5 feet 8 inches, should weigh 11 stone 1 lb. j he may exceed this by 7 per cent., and so attain 11 stone 12 lb. without affecting his vital capacity; beyond this amount his respiration be- comes diminished.* * Among the Asiatics there is a sect of Brahmins who pride themselves on their extreme corpulency. Their diet consists of farinaceous vegetables, milk sugar, sweetmeats, and ghee. They look upon corpulency as a sign of opulence ; and many arrive at a great degree of obesity without tasting anything that has ever lived.FOOD: ITS USES AND ULTIMATE ELIMINATION. 21 FOOD : ITS USES AND ULTIMATE ELIMINATION. 42. Popularly, we speak of the products we eat to supply the wants of the system as 'food' and 'drink/ and the ordinary individual does not care to analyze further the meaning of the words j but, to the chemist, they have a far broader meaning, and in his hands their different properties and uses in the system are worked out, and in this way, by the light of his knowledge, we are able to show what effects on the animal economy certain foods produce, either for good or harm. 43. The chemist broadly divides foods into two classes. These are known as The Nitrogenous and the Non-Nitrogenous. The nitrogenous class of foods are those which form the essential basis of structures possessing active or living proper- ties, and the non-nitrogenous principles may be looked upon as supplying the source of power—in other words, if man were looked upon as a steam-engine, the nitrogenous food would form the iron, brass and works of the engine, and the non- nitrogenous would be the coal or any other fuel used in generating power. 44. Now what constitutes nitrogenous food 1 The answer is: meat of all kinds, gelatine, eggs, milk, and certain con- stituents of vegetables, such as gluten, vegetable fibrine and caseine. 45. As life consists in the constant renovation and decay of living tissue, and as living tissue, i.e., the body, is made up of nitrogenous matter, it is therefore absolutely necessary for all the operations of life, and is the instrument of living action, and out of it are formed bone, muscle, nerves, etc.22 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [46- 46. Non-nitrogenous* food consists of fats, starch—the basis of bread and all farinaceous foods—sugar, alcohol, and certain vegetable matters. These principles are found either naturally or are produced by chemical action. These constituents are used in the animal economy to keep up the heat of the body, generate power, and when not consumed or eliminated from the system, to be stored up as fat. 47. Again, taking a railway-engine as an illustration, it is plain that if rapid speed is required, and a great weight has to be drawn, a greater amount of fuel must be consumed. So, in like manner, if hard work has to be done for many hours a day, a greater amount of food must be taken, and this is consumed in the human body in renovating the tissues and generating the force and heat according to the nature of the food used and its amount. 48. That this is the case may be instanced by this fact amongst many. In making the railway from Paris to Rouen, it was found that two English were equal to three French navvies. An examination of the cause disclosed the fact that the former were fed on large quantities of meat,i while the latter ate chiefly soup and lentils. The diet of the Frenchmen was altered to the English standard, with the result that the inequality soon disappeared. 49. Occupation, season and climate greatly influence the amount and kind of food necessary. The inhabitants of cold climates require a large amount of fat, J and in the spring, as vital processes are more active, more food is required. On * Chemists further divide this into hydro-carbons, or fats, and carbo- hydrates, such as starch, sugar, etc., fats being principally heat-producers, and sugar and starch power-producers. This of course is a rough analysis. + 'Nitrogenous food in this way forming the instrument of living action is incessantly being disintegrated. Becoming thereby effete and useless, a fresh supply is needed to replace that which has fulfilled its office. The primary object of nitrogenous alimentation may therefore he said to be the development and renovation of the living tissues.'—Dr. Pavy. t A.n Esquimaux will eat 10 lb. or 12 lb. of blubber daily ; and their children will make wry faces at sugar, but eat blubber with delight.52.] FOOD: ITS USES AND ULTIMATE ELIMINATION. 23 the other hand, muscular work demands a larger supply of nitrogenous food, i.e., meat.* 50. It will thus be seen that as in the human body certain foods produce muscle, energy, force, and power, others, by their chemical decomposition, furnish material for the pro- duction of heat. It is plain that if more is used than is con- sumed in these ordinary operations of life, or is excreted by the bowels, kidneys, and lungs, it must remain in the system contaminating the blood—as with gout-poison—or equally out of place, and equally destructive to comfort, as fat. 51. On the equable assimilation and excretion of these different classes of food depends the health and comfort of the individual; but from faulty diet, heredity or mode of life in many persons, the balance is not equally held, and the waste that should be excreted, or consumed by exercise or work, becomes stored as fat.t 52. 1 The rich may go and have their flues swept out at such places as Carlsbad, Marienbad, Kissengen, and Ems, where the meagre diet and quantity of water drunk (because it is the correct thing to do and the fashion, and because example has such influence for good or evil in this world) will soon reduce their superabundance of unhealthy tissue to limits compatible with health and enjoyment. But the middle-class victim of obesity and gout must be content, if he would enjoy life and live to an advanced age, to take the advice of Socrates, where he says, " Beware of those foods that tempt you to eat when you are not hungry, and of those liquors that tempt you to drink when you are not thirsty," and make dietetics his study to the extent of learning what foods he should indulge in, and what quantity he can take without ultimate discomfort.' * The trappers of the American prairies can live, and do live, for weeks on meat and tea only. t Lord Byron undervalued David Hume, denying his claim to genius on account of his bulk, and calling him from the Heroic Epistle ' the fattest hog in Epicure's sty.' Another of this extraordinary man's allegations was that ' fat is an oily dropsy.' To stave off its visitations he frequently chewed tobacco in lieu of dinner, alleging that it absorbed the gastric juices and prevented hunger.—' Rejected Addresses,' by James and Horace Smith.24 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [53- USES OF FAT IN THE BODY. 53. Though excess of fat is an evil and an encumbrance it must not be forgotten that a twentieth part of the male body should be of this substance, and a sixteenth part of that of the female. This may be slightly increased without interfering with the breathing capacity or the comfort of the individual. 54. A moderate amount of fat is one of the signs of health and is certainly an adjunct to beauty of face and form, and its uses m the animal economy are many and various. In the first place, it serves the merely mechanical purpose of a light, soft, and elastic packing material, which, being deposited between and around the different organs, affords them support and protection from the injurious effects of pressure. Further, being a bad conductor of heat, the fat beneath the skin serves to some extent as a means of retaining the warmth of the body. 55. But the most important use of fat is seen in what occurs during the process of nutrition ; for when more fat-forming material is taken into the system than is absolutely required for the maintenance of the body, it is stored up and laid by to become available for use when the expenditure exceeds the immediate supply. 56. When the direct supply of nourishment is cut off, by withholding it, or by the interruption of the process of digestion, nature has recourse to that which has been laid up in reserve in the form of fat. As everyone knows, in the wasting of the body which ensues as the result of starvation, fat is the first part consumed.* But it has been found by * On the 14th of December, 1810, a pig was buried in its sty by the fall of part of the chalk cliff under Dover Castle. On the 23rd of May, 160 days afterwards, Mr. Mantell, the contractor, was told by some workmen employed in removing the fallen chalk that they heard the whining of the pig, and although he had great doubt of the fact, he urged them to proceed with clearing away the chalk from the sty, and was soon afterwards surprised to see the pig extricated from its confinement alive. At the time of the accident the pig was in a fat condition, and supposed to have weighed about 160 lb. When extricated it presented an extremely emaciated appearance, and weighed no more than 40 lb.6o.] USES OF FAT IN THE BODY. 25 experiment that life cannot be sustained on fat alone. A duck fed on fat only died of starvation at the end of three weeks. Butter, it is said, exuded from all parts of its body, and the feathers seemed as if they had been soaked in melted butter. Similarly animals fed on fat and arrowroot mixed will die of starvation, or on meat alone j but if bone be given with the meat, it is sufficient to support life for any length of time. This is the reason why wild animals in confinement have bone given them with their meat. 57. The following experiments made will show what part the different constituents of food play in the economy. A couple of rats, which had been nearly brought to the verge of death by restriction to starchy matter and fat, were fed with bread and meat for four days, and then with meat alone. A week after commencing the meat their united weight was 9 oz. 11 dr., and three weeks later 10 oz. 1 dr. Being now placed on a diet of meat with non-nitrogenous food (starch and fat), a notable improvement occurred ; for in three days' time they weighed 11 oz.; four days later, 14 oz. 2 dr. ; and a week later still, 14 oz. 4 dr. 58. In another experiment, two rats, weighing 12 oz., were placed on an exclusive diet of lean meat and water. They remained healthy in appearance, but steadily lost weight, and in a month's time weighed only 8f oz. They were now placed on a miscellaneous diet, and in a week's time weighed 12i oz. 59. In a third experiment two rats, weighing together 12 oz. 7 dr., were kept upon meat diet exclusively. On the thirteenth day one of the rats died, the weight of its body being 2 oz. 8 dr., and that of the other 6 oz. 3 dr. The living one was still kept on the same food, and this died ten days later, the weight of its body being then 5 oz. It will thus be seen that meat alone will not sustain animal life for an indefinite period. 60. What the uses of fat are in the food will be found else- where, but we may remark here that it sustains the heat of the26 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [61- body. The Esquimaux eat fat as we do bread. Dr. Pavy, in his work on ' Dietetics,' says : ' Travellers have dilated on the large amount of food consumed by the inhabitants of cold, as compared with that consumed by those of temperate or hot climates. Accounts are given which almost appear incredible regarding the enormous quantities of food devoured by dwellers in the Arctic regions. Thus Sir John Eoss states that an Esquimaux "perhaps eats twenty pounds of flesh and oil daily." Sir W. Parry, as a matter of curiosity, one day tried how much food an Esquimaux lad, scarcely full-grown, would consume if allowed his full tether. The food was weighed, and, besides fluids, he got through in twenty-four hours 8| lb. of flesh and If lb. of bread, and " did not consider the quantity extraordinary." ' 61. Sir George Simpson, from his travelling experience in Siberia, says : ' In one highly important particular the Zakuti may safely challenge the rest of the world. They are the best eaters on the face of the earth.' Having heard more on this subject than he could bring himself to believe, he resolved to test the matter by the evidence of his own senses. He pro- cured a couple of men who had, he states, a tolerable reputa- tion in that way, and prepared a dinner for them, consisting of 36 lb. avoirdupois of beef and 18 lb. of butter. 62. By the end of an hour they had got through a half of their allowance in Sir George Simpson's presence. Their stomachs at this time projected ' into a brace of kettledrums.' They were then left in charge of deputies, and Sir George was assured, on returning two hours later, that all had been con- sumed. He remarks that after such surfeits, the gluttons remain for three or four days in a state of stupor, neither eating nor drinking, and meanwhile are rolled about with a view to the promotion of digestion. 63. ' He who is well fed,' remarks Sir John Eoss, ' resists cold better than the man who is stinted, while the starvation from cold follows but too soon a starvation in food.' He says further, ' All experience has shown that a large use of67.] EVILS OF OVER-EATING, AND TIME FOR MEALS. 27 oil ami fat meats is the true secret of life in these frozen countries.' Sir John Franklin also states : ' During the whole of our march we experienced that no quantity of clothing could keep us warm while we fasted; but on those occasions on which we were enabled to go to bed with full stomachs, we passed the night in a warm and comfortable manner.' 64. These remarks will show that the use of fat is not so much to make fat as to keep up the heat of the body by its combustion, and as also to act as a store-house of fuel to draw upon, when required for the operations of life. EVILS OF OVER-EATING, AND TIME FOR MEALS. 65. There is far more harm done by taking too much food than there is by taking too little, and it is only in very ex- ceptional cases that injury results from the latter cause; whereas an enormous amount of discomfort, disorder, and disease, and even curtailment of life, arise from excess in eating and drinking. Where the individual lives plainly and simply, and only obeys the cravings of nature to the extent of satisfying them, there is no need for weights and scales; but how many are there not, who would be far more comfortable and more healthy if they lived upon a measured amount of food and drink 1 66. There are many other evils beyond corpulence that result from excess in eating, and a badly arranged dietary. Among them may be mentioned a deranged digestion, a loaded tongue, an oppressed stomach, vitiated secretions, a goi'ged liver, plethora and [its consequences, a sluggish brain, with horrible dreams during sleep, and depression when awake. 67. Excess in animal food is as bad as excess in vegetable, if tit is combined /with an indolent mode of life. Whereas excess of vegetable food of certain kinds leads to obesity, excess of animal food, if not accompanied by exercise, leads to the accumulation in the system of the materials that form gout.28 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [68- 68. As man is designed by nature to consume a mixed diet, we may proceed to consider when and at what intervals food should be taken. The ordinary custom is that three meals should be taken daily, at intervals of five or six hours apart, and this has been found by experience to be best suited to our requirements. This allows a short period of quiescence for the stomach. The size of the meal should be regulated ac- cording to the estimate given on page 17, always having regard to the fact that increased muscular work will allow for increased diet. 69. Sex also and age influence the amount of food required. A woman on the average takes a tenth part less than a man ; and during growth more food is necessary to minister to the bodily functions, which are then more active, as well as to supply materials for increase. After forty, the diet, if long life is to be enjoyed, should be sparing. AMOUNT OF FOOD TO BE CONSUMED.f 70. To prevent the accumulation of fat in those of this pre- disposition, the following system of diet should be pursued : 71. Breakfast.—One large cup of tea or coffee, with a little milk and one or two saccharine tabloids,* with 2 or 3 oz. of bread or dry toast, very thinly buttered, or, instead of butter, 3 or 4 oz. of any light meat or fish, contained in breakfast dishes. 72. Lunch or Dinner.—An ordinary dish of any soup found in the section devoted to that aliment; 7 or 8 oz. of roast or boiled meat, fish, or any meat dish that may be chosen in the following pages ; an ordinary amount of any vegetable given under that head ; a small plate of any non-farinaceous pudding, which see; and 5 or 6 oz. of any fruit, if cooked, * These may be procured from Messrs. Burroughes, Welcome, and Co., Snow Hill Buildings, London, or through any chemist, at a cost of about a shilling a hundred, and should be used with all things that require sweeten- ing. t See page 46.79.] AMOUNT OF FOOD TO BE CONSUMED, 29 sweetened with saccharine, with six or eight ounces of any light wine, such as claret.* 73 Evening Meal.—Tea, coffee, as at hreakfast, or 6 to 8 oz of light wine, diluted or not; dry toast, or a little bread,! with boiled eggs, fish, or any meat dish that may be chosen; and, as a nightcap, a glass of whisky and water, with a few gluten biscuits, taken just before retiring to rest. 74 This diet, it is needless to say, may be increased if the subject does a large amount of daily work, but in the same ratio of quality of food. The reader may refer to Dr. Lyon Playfair's table given in page 16. 75. Indeed, the case may be considered a sad one, if even a very liberal allowance of the cookery in these pages may not be taken with impunity and a gradual reduction of weight. EXERCISE. 76. In the treatment of corpulency this is of the greatest importance. The muscle of the heart is strengthened by enforced exercise, and the waste of the system burnt off. 77. The nutrition of the muscles is improved by exercise. The blood which they contain is increased, and in consequence of this increased afflux of blood and the more rapid disintegra- tion going on in the muscles, they become harder and larger, and better able to bear fatigue. 78. The action of the skin is increased, and by perspiration the effete matters in the system are got rid of. The vital capacity of the lungs is increased by exercise. ^ Digestion becomes more perfect where exercise is indulged in, and the nervous system is improved in nutrition and power. 79. Dr. Parkes, a well-known authority on the amount of * See section on Wine, page 33. tVam Abbott and Son, 6, Duke Street Mansions, London, make a Gluten bread suitable for fat people, and many other specialities—soups, fruits, gluten biscuits, etc. It may be mentioned that gluten bread or gluten biscuits do not contain any fattening principles, as the starch of the farina is carefully eliminated.30 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [8o. exercise desirable, says the average daily work of a man engaged in manual labour in the open air is equivalent to lifting 250 to 350 tons one foot high. This is a moderate amount, 400 tons being a heavy clay's work. The amount of muscular work involved in this may be easily known by remembering that a walk of 20 miles on the'level road is equivalent to about 353 tons lifted one foot; and that a walk of 10 miles is equivalent to lifting 247 tons one foot high.* 80. < We may estimate that every healthy man ought to take an amount of exercise represented by 150 tons raised one foot, which is equal to the work done by walking 8J to 9 miles on a level road. A certain amount of this exercise is taken in performing one's daily work ; but apart from this, outdoor exercise should be taken daily equivalent in amount to a walk of 5 or 6 miles. Less than this is not compatible with robust health.' 81. Exercise should be systematic and regular, not taken by fits and starts, and in corpulent people should be increased gradually. The under-clothing should be of flannel, and chill should be guarded against. Lawn-tennis in summer supplies the best form of exercise. Walking uphill strengthens the heart, and the distance and speed should be increased as palpitation subsides. 82. Eiding exercise, where practicable, has a stimulating action on the liver and skin, and may be considered the best form of all exercise. Eowing is also an excellent mode of taking exercise. The more muscles that can be brought into play the better. 83. Exercise should not be taken immediately after food, nor should the individual who is anxious to reduce corpulency gratify the desire for a nap. It is well to. have recourse to some light mental or bodily employment, such as billiards, chess, etc., to obviate its occurrence; 'but,' as Dr. Pavy remarks, ' with a natural state of things, there ought to be * Newsholme.s6] EXERCISE. 3i no strong desire to sleep after a meal.' If there be such, it may be concluded that some fault exists. Sleeping after meals may arise from a sluggish state of the liver or kidneys. In this case medical treatment is called for. 84. When any living part is called into frequent and regular exercise, especially if the system is not yet arrived at full maturity, it is observed to become gradually more and more susceptible of action—to increase in size within certain limits, determined by the constitution, and thereby to gain strength, as indicated by an increased power of enduring fatigue and a greater capacity of withstanding the influences of the com- mon causes of disease, to which previously it would have almost immediately succumbed. 85. The explanation of this, as proved by experiment, is that exercise causes an increased action in the nerves and bloodvessels of the part, by which its vitality is augmented and a greater supply of blood and nervous stimulus is sent to it to sustain and repair the greater waste that is taking place, and also to supply additional substance to fit it for the unusual demands made on it. The results of this process are visibly exemplified in men whose habits or profession lead them to constant muscular exertion—in sportsmen, in blacksmiths, dancers, porters, etc., for instance; and if it is less manifest in other parts of the body beyond the muscles in view, it is only from other tissues admitting of less expansion and showing their increased power in a different way. 86. Unless exercise in its ordinary sense be taken, neither respiration nor circulation can fully accomplish the purposes they are intended to serve. Life subsists through a series of motions, and all these should be maintained in regular and adequate exercise ; by so doing the food necessary to sustain the system is taken up, and all that is not required is excreted by the different organs that act independently of the will, so that the balance is evenly kept, and none is unnecessarily stored as fat.32 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [87. STIMULANTS IN CORPULENCY. 87. What part does alcohol, in its various forms, play in the dietary 1 Chemists who have investigated the effect of alcohol on the system have come to the conclusion that it is not a food, and does not in any way make flesh or tissue, but in some cases it seems to increase the value' of other foods taken. Whether pure alcohol increases or diminishes fat is still a moot point. Some physiologists believe that it assists in eliminating waste products, while others hold that it has no effect of this kind whatever, and that it passes out of the body unchanged. 88. That it is injurious beyond a certain amount is certain, and that amount is represented by about a sixth of a pint of spirits, about half a pint of sherry, or a pint of claret or other light wine daily. As alcohol is contained in all wines and fer- mented drinks, experiments prove that to the other consti- tuents of these beverages we must look for their fattening properties—thus, in wine, to the sugar; and in ale, stout, and other fermented liquors, to the sugar and starch they contain. 89. That beer and stout are unsuited to fat people there can be no question. That the English and Germans who drink largely of beer are more inclined to be corpulent than the Scotch or Irish, who drink more of spirits, is a well-known fact. The stronger beers taken to excess in people of a corpulent habit are also apt to lead to the development of gout and biliousness. 90. It becomes a question now to consider the least in- jurious form in which alcohol may be partaken of by those who require it, or think they do so. To the ordinary indi- vidual, good wine, properly matured, in moderate quantity, is a harmless and exhilarating drink ;* but to those of a corpu- * Especially does this apply to that period of life when the powers of elimination are declining, and the individual, from the exigencies of age and failing strength, is unable to take the active exercise necessary to con- sume the waste products of the body.94.] STIMULANTS IN CORPULENCY. 33 lent habit of body, certain wines are a slow poison, and it becomes necessary in a work like this to say a few words on so important a subject. 91. The deleterious wines for people constitutionally dis- posed to stoutness are those which contain sugar, either by arrest of fermentation or by the addition of sugar, and these are, as a rule, the products of hot countries. In France, Germany, or Hungary, etc., where a cooler climate prevails, fermentation occurs with less rapidity, and is allowed to proceed till it comes to a spontaneous termination. 92. ' Here, then, the transformation of saccharine matter is permitted to go on until it is quite, or nearly lost, and in con- sequence there is produced a drier or less fruity wine, and one which takes less time to mature.' Wines of this class develop a stronger bouquet and a more acid flavour, and they are admitted to be in every way more suited for stout people of sedentary habit. The wines of the Ehine and the Moselle are noted for the aroma they possess, and the greater amount of acid they contain, and their freedom from sugar. The same applies to some of the wines of the South of France known as clarets and burgundies. 93. Burgundies suit best those who require an excess of alcoholic strength; but they do not keep well, and sometimes undergo a second fermentation, through mouldiness in the bottle. The grand old vintage wines, such as Chambertin,* Clos Vougeot, etc., are sufficiently alcoholized not to decompose, but their strength and price do not fit them for ordinary consumption. The peculiar odour of wall-flowers is character- istic of the choicer burgundies, but they are necessarily of high price. 94. The choice Ehine wines — moselle, chablis, chateau Yquem—bear carriage badly and are best drunk in their own country ; but there are plenty of good claret and light wine brands to which this does not apply. The wines to be * The great Napoleon drank this wine, but he was an exceedingly abste- mious man. 3FOODS FOR THE FAT. 34 [95- avoided are sweet wines, such as port, sherry, champagne, tokay, madeira, etc. 95. The wine-drinker, if he is subject to obesity or gout, places his health and comfort in the hands of his wine merchant. So he should choose one of known probity, whose good name would be too valuable a heritage to lose by palming off adulterated wines and poisonous new spirits for the sake of present profit. 96. Always remembering that a pint of light wine daily should not be much exceeded, the corpulent person may with his soup drink a glass of sauterne ;* with his fish a glass of Rhine wine, such as Erbach or Steinberg,; with his meat or game a glass of burgundy, and with his cigar after, some weak whisky or cognac and water, or tea or coffee sweetened with a tabloid of saccharin. TEA: ITS USE. 97. Tea is not food, and should not be taken as such. Tea taken three or four hours after dinner is valuable, for this is the time that corresponds with the completion of digestion, when, the food having been conveyed away from the stomach, nothing remains but the acid juices employed in digestion. These acid juices create an uneasy sensation in the stomach, and a call is made for something to relieve this uneasiness. Tea fulfils this object better than stimulants; more than this, it satisfies some unknown want in the system. This refers to the moderate use and enjoyment of tea, but there is a large class who drink an enormous quantity of this beverage, to the undoubted impairment of their health. 98. Those who take it to excess are found principally among the poor. They become pale and bloodless, much * The wines recommended by the author are kept by the old firm of Cave and Brutton, of Yeovil, and may be trusted to be what they are represented, a great desideratum in these days of adulteration and compe- tition.10l.] TEA : ITS USE. 35 given to faintness, nervousness, and depression of spirits, and suffer excessively from flatulence and loss of appetite. This is no doubt partly due to poisons used to colour and adulterate it. Many women ruin their digestive powers by taking large quantities of weak tea three or four times a day. One form of indigestion caused by tea deserves special notice, as it is commonly observed by medical men : the appetite is unim- paired, and no particularly unpleasant sensations are felt after meals, but almost as soon as food is taken it seems to pass out of the stomach into the bowels, causing flatulent, colicky pains, speedily followed by diarrhoea. Hence, there is a constant craving for food and a feeling of sinking and prostration. 99. In some instances, these symptoms only occur in the morning; in others, they follow every meal, and lead to serious loss of flesh, and also to alarm. It is needless to say the remedy is to take less tea, and add plenty of milk to it, or for a time to change to coffee or cocoa. In moderate quantity, tea exerts a very decidedly stimulant and restorative action on the nervous system, which is aided by the warmth of the infusion, and is particularly useful in over-fatigued conditions of the system, and under these circumstances it is infinitely preferable to alcoholic drinks. Lord Wolseley considers it is the best drink for exhausted soldiers after a long march. 100. The harmful effects of tea depend a great deal on the way it is made. If it is allowed to infuse too long, the tannin and other injurious ingredients of even the best tea are drawn out, and the infusion becomes bitter and astringent, and un- pleasant to the taste. To make tea properly, the teapot should be warmed, and the water poured over the tea im- mediately it boils. Five teaspoonfuls of mixed tea should be put to each quart of boiling water, and it should draw for eight minutes. Professional tea-tasters are very particular to use only water which is freshly boiled. 101. In China tea is sometimes infused in a teacup, and sometimes in the cup from which it is drunk. In Japan the 3—236 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [102- tea-leaves are ground to powder, and, after infusion in a tea- cup, the mixture is beaten up until it becomes frothy, and then the whole is swallowed. The Chinese drink their tea in a pure state; the Russians take it with lemon-juice; and the Germans often flavour it with rum, cinnamon, or vanilla. In England we know it is customary to add cream, milk, or sugar, but for corpulent people the Russian mode would be the best. 102. The only way by which ordinary people can detect adulteration of tea is by unfolding the leaf after it has been used. In pure tea this is serrated (like the edge of a saw) almost its whole length, and the veins run out from the tendrils nearly to the border and then turn in, so that a dis- tinction is left between them and the border. The leaf may vary in shape and size. The leaves used to adulterate tea are the sloe, hawthorn, beech, and willow. Tea-leaves, when freshly gathered, are destitute of odour and flavour. The pleasant taste and aroma for which they are so highly valued are developed in the process of drying. 103. Either black or green tea may be prepared at will from the same leaves, gathered at the same time and under the same circumstances. It is the lengthened exposure to the air in the process of drying, accompanied by a slight heating and fermen- tation, that give the dark colour and the distinguishing flavour to the black teas of the shops. The practice of scenting teas for the English markets is common in China, and many teas, especially green teas, are artificially coloured with Prussian blue, indigo, and burnt gypsum. It is said that one day an English gentleman at Shanghai, being in conversation with some Chinese from the green-tea country, asked them what reason they had for dyeing the tea, and whether it would not be better without undergoing that process. They acknow- ledged that tea was much better when prepared without having such ingredients mixed with it, and that they never drank dyed teas themselves; but that, as foreigners seemed to prefer having poisonous ingredients mixed with their tea to make it look pretty, and as these poisons were cheap, the,07>] TEA : ITS USE. 37 Chinese had no objection to supply them, especially as such teas fetched a higher price. 104. Tea being an article of daily and universal use, the following rules should be observed : 1. Don't buy high-priced or highly-flavoured teas, especially if green, as they owe their flavour to noxious matters. 2. Take a good proportion of milk with the infusion. 3. Let the quantity used at each infusion be very moderate. 4. Make the infusion properly with boiling water, and don't let it draw for more than eight minutes. If these rules be followed tea-drinking has a con- servative action on the different structures of the body, checking any disposition to too rapid a change in them by wear and tear, and thereby preventing waste of tissue. ^ 105. Teas free from too great an amount of tannin suit weak stomachs best. The Indian and Assam teas as a rule contain a large amount of this ingredient. The author can strongly recommend the new digestive tea imported by Mr. Charles Horne, of 14, Union Court, Old Broad Street, London. This agrees with people who cannot drink other teas, such as dyspeptics and those of nervous temperament. COFFEE: ITS USE. 106. ' Coffee,' says Dr. Pavy, ' is said to have been in use in Abyssinia from time immemorial, and in Persia from A.D. 875. It was used in Constantinople about the middle of the sixteenth century, in spite of the violent opposition of the priests, and in 1554 two coffee-houses were opened in that city. It was intro- duced into Europe in the seventeenth century. It was drunk in Venice soon after 1615, and brought into England and France about forty years after.' 107. Like tea, coffee produces an invigorating and stimu- lant effect, without being followed by any depression, and fully justifies the estimation in which it is held. It increases the action of the pulse, and is more heating than tea, while at the same time it arouses the mental faculties and so dis-3s FOODS FOR THE FAT. [,0g. poses to wakefulness. To make the infusion properly 2 oz. of freshly-ground coffee should be used to each pint of boiling water. 108. Coffee is especially useful to those who suffer from re- dundancy of fat, as it has the power of relieving the sensation of hunger and fatigue, and may be used two or three times a day as a beverage. It has all the advantages of a stimulant without the ill-effects following alcohol in its various forms. It exerts a marked sustaining influence under fatigue and privation, and sustains the strength where a restricted diet is necessary, and this enables arduous exertion to be better borne under the existence of abstinence or a deficiency of food. COCOA. 109. Of this article, as a dietetic for fat people, one need say but little, as it is not suitable. It is highly nourishing, and contains a large quantity of oil and also some starch. It has none of the good qualities of tea or coffee. WATEK AND AERATED DRINKS, ETC. 110. A supply of water in one shape or another is one of the essential conditions of life. It is as important as food, and is required for various purposes in the performance of the operations of life. It forms the liquid element of the secretions, and thereby the medium for dissolving the digested food, and enabling it to pass into the system and the effete products to pass out in solution. 111. The quantity of water required for drinking purposes is found to bear a relation to climate and to the weight of the individual, being nearly half an ounce for every pound, or one and a half gills for every stone weight. Thus a man weighing 150 lb. (ordinarily a man of 5 feet 7 inches) would require three pints and three-quarters ; of this about one-third is, WATER AND AERATED DRINKS, ETC. 39 taken in the food, the remainder, two and a half pints, being required^dnnk.^^ _^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^viable to drink more fluid than is necessary to quench thirst boda and potash waters may be taken for this purpose, but no aerated waters that contain sugar, such as lemonade ginger- beer and their allies. Recipes will be found on pages 123-1.6 for non-alcoholic drinks, sweetened with saccharin, for such people. During hot weather, even under any circumstances, more fluid is necessary. 113 If a plain and wholesome liquid be drunk, such as tea, coffee ' and those recommended under the sections on wine and beverages, the error is not likely to be committed of taking too much. After compensating for what is J™ oft bv the skin and the lungs the remainder passes off by the kidneys, and washes away the effete products of the system in a dissolved state. The poison of gout is especially elimin- ated by the kidneys. Gout is one of the commonest complica- tions^ corpulency.PART II. DIETETICS AND COOKERY. 114. The following articles of diet may be partaken of by- corpulent people. In the case of meats and fish, all superfluous fat should be removed before they are sent to table : January. Meat.—The lean of beef, mutton, doe-venison. Game and Poultry.—Hares, rabbits, pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, snipes, fowls, chickens, capons, pullets, grouse, wild fowls, turkeys, tame pigeons. Fish.—Turbot, soles, flounders, plaice, skate, whitings, cod, haddocks, herrings, oysters, lobsters, crabs, prawns, tench, perch, mussels. Vegetables.—Cabbages, broccoli, savoys, endive, sprouts, Scotch kale, sea-kale, spinach, lettuces, celery, cardoons, salsify, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, garlic, shallots, mustard and cress, cucumbers, mushrooms. Fruits.—Apples, medlars, currants, grapes, walnuts, nuts, filberts, oranges, lemons.* Especially in Season in January.—Haddocks, whitings, tench, skate, hares, rabbits. February. 115. Meat.—Beef, mutton, venison. Game and Poultry.—Hares, rabbits, pheasants, partridges, * As uncooked fruits contain sugar they should be taken sparingly.11? -, ARTICLES OF DIET. 4? woodcocks, snipes, pigeons, turkeys, fowls, pullets, capons, chickens, turkey-poults. ■ nnA(ta\, Fish ^Flounders, brill, plaice, skate, soles, turbot, codfish, whitings, sturgeon, haddocks, oysters, mussels, cockles, crabs, crayfish, prawns, shrimps, barbels, perch, pike, tench Vegetables.—Broccoli, cabbages, Brussels sprouts savoys celery, cardoons, lettuces, endive, spinach, sorrel, forced French bean;, turnips, and all small salads; tarragon, scorzonera, cucumbers, mushrooms. , FRUiTS.-APPles, grapes, oranges, pomeloes shaddocks, almonds, nuts, chestnuts, walnuts, figs, currants, fi b^ts Especially in Season in February. Skate, dace, turkey- poults. March. 116 Meat.—Beef, mutton, doe-venison. Game and Poultry.-Fowls, chickens, turkeys, pigeons, rabbits, guinea-fowls, woodcocks, snipe. Fish-Turbot, whitings, soles, plaice, flounders, skate, oysters,1 lobsters, crabs, prawns, cod, crayfish, mackerel, mussels, trout. . 1„4.+,1„OQ Vegetables.—Savoys, cabbages, sprouts, spinach, lettuces, turnips, radishes, Jerusalem artichokes, parsley and other warden herbs, Scotch kale, broccoli, scorzonera, salsify sea- kale, chives, celery, cress, mustard, sorrel, horse-radish, rhubarb, shallots, cucumbers. Fruits.—Apples, oranges, forced strawberries. Especially in Season in March. - Mackerel, mullet, skate, whitings, prawns. April. 117 Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb. Game and PouLTRY.-Pullets, chickens, leverets, fowls, pigeons, wood-pigeons, rabbits, turkey-poults FlsH —Brill, cockles, cod, crabs, dory, flounders, halibut, ling, lobsters, mullet, mackerel, mussels, perch, oysters, pike,42 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [118. plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, sturgeon, soles, whitings turbot, trout. Vegetables.—Asparagus, beans, fennel, endive, broccoli, cucumbers, chervil, lettuces, parsley, rhubarb, turnips, sorrel, sea-kale, radishes, spinach, turnip-tops, small salad, parsnips. Fruits.—Apples, oranges, early strawberries, walnuts. Especially in Season in April.—Prawns, crabs, obsters, grass-lamb, asparagus, cucumbers. May. 118. Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb, calf's liver. Game and Poultry.—Fowls, pigeons, pullets, chickens, wood-pigeons, leverets, rabbits. Fish.—Cod, crabs, brill, flounders, lobsters, mackerel, perch, prawns, plaice, pike, shrimps, whitings, crayfish, gurnet, dory, haddocks, soles, halibut, turbot, trout. Vegetables.—Cabbage, asparagus, kidney-beans, chervil, turnips, spinach, sorrel, sea-kale, lettuces, rhubarb, corn salad, cucumbers, cauliflowers, radishes, artichokes, salads generally. Fruits.—Apples, cherries, currants, strawberries, goose- berries. Especially in Season in May.—Prawns, crabs, lobsters. June. 119. Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb, buck-venison, calf's liver. Game and Poultry.—Fowls, chickens, pullets, turkey- poults, pigeons, leverets, plovers, rabbits. Fish.—Turbot, soles, mackerel, carps, pike, crabs, tench, prawns, lobsters, shrimps, mullet, haddocks, trout. Vegetables.—Cauliflowers, spinach, beans, asparagus, arti- chokes, turnips, lettuces, cucumbers, radishes, cresses, all kinds of salad, sorrel, horse-radish, rhubarb, vegetable-marrows. Fruits.—Gooseberries, currants, cherries, strawberries, apri- cots, peaches, apples, nectarines, grapes, pine-apples.ARTICLES OF DIET. 43 121.J Especially in Season in JuNE.-Skate, prawns, lobsters, crabs, grass-lamb, vegetable-marrows. July. 120 Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb, buck-vemson veal. GAME A.ND Poultry.-FowIs, chickens, pullets turkey- poults, tame rabbits, wild rabbits, leverets, plovers, wheatears, wild chickens, pigeons, wood-pigeons. Fisn.-Dace, dory, cod, carp, brill, barbel, crabs crayfish, flounders, haddocks, ling, mackerel, lobsters mullet, thorn- back, plaice, pike, soles, tench, gurnet, perch, dabs, prawns, •whitings, trout. , , , Vegetables. — Kidney, Windsor, and scarlet beans, as- paragus, artichokes, celery, endive, chervil, lettuces, mush- rooms, salsify, spinach, sorrel, radishes, turnips, salad, peas. FRUITS.-Apples, oranges, pine-apples, currants, cherries, damsons, gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, plums, peaches, nectarines. August. 121 Meat.—Beef, mutton, grass-lamb, venison, veal. G\me and Poultry. — Grouse, pullets, fowls, pigeons, turkey-poults, moor-game, chickens, plovers, turkeys, wild pigeons, rabbits, wheatears, leverets. Fish—Turbot, whitings, dace, dabs, tench, thornback, flounders, perch, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, crabs, pike, plaice, barbel, oysters, prawns, gurnet, brill, cod, crayfish, mullet, mackerel, soles, trout. Vegetables.—French, kidney, Windsor, and scarlet beans, artichokes, lettuces, cauliflowers, cucumbers, salsify, radishes, salad, mushrooms, shallots, turnips, spinach, leeks, endive, peas. FRUiTS. _ Apples, plums, peaches, greengages, damsons, cherries, currants, raspberries, gooseberries, nectarines, Al- berts.44 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [l22. Especially in Season in August. - Turbot, mackerel pike, perch prawns, dace, crabs, herrings, lobsters, grouse! greengages, filberts, figs. e ' September. 122. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, lamb, venison. Game and Poultry.-Fowls, pullets, chickens, wild duck, partridges, hares, pigeons, rabbits, turkey-poults. Fish. — Cod, haddocks, flounders, plaice, soles, mullets, lobsters, oysters, prawns, carp, pike, perch, tench, herrings, brill, turbot, crabs, dace, trout. VEGETABLES—Cauliflowers, cabbages, turnips, peas, beans, artichokes, mushrooms, lettuces. Fruits.—Apples, plums, cherries, peaches, grapes, straw- berries, pines, walnuts, filberts, hazel-nuts, quinces, medlars, currants, damsons. Especially in Season in September. — Pike, perch lobsters, dace, crabs, mussels, hares, moor-game, partridges' grouse. & ' October, 123. Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, lamb, venison Game and Poultry.-Turkeys, pullets, fowls, chickens, widgeons, larks, woodcocks, grouse, pheasants, pigeons, part- ridges, snipes, hares, rabbits. Fish.—Oysters, lobsters, crabs, brill, gurnet, dory, smelts, halibut, gudgeon, barbel, perch, carp, tench, herrings, hake, pike, dace, trout. Vegetables . Turnips, cauliflowers, cabbages, beans, leeks, spinach, endive, celery, scorzonera, cardoon, parsley, salads, garlic, shallots. Fruits.—Plums, apples, peaches, medlars, walnuts, filberts, nuts, quinces, damsons, pineapples. Especially in Season in October. —Dace, pike, hake, dory, pheasants, partridges, widgeons, broccoli, truffles, grapes,' medlars, tomatoes, hazel-nuts.ARTICLES OF DIET. 45 November. 124 Meat.—Beef, mutton, venison. Game and Poultry.—Hares, rabbits, pheasants, partridges, fowls, pullets, turkeys, widgeons, snipe, woodcocks, larks, pigeons, grouse. Iish-Oysters, crabs, lobsters, dory, soles, smelt, gurnet, brill, carp, barbel, halibut, pike, tencb, cockles, mussels, turbot, herrings, haddocks, skate, whitings, cod, dace. Vegetables. —Turnips, leeks, shallots, Jerusalem artichokes, cabbages, broccoli, savoys, spinach, beet, cardoons, chervil, endive, lettuces, salsify, scorzonera, Scotch kale, celery, mush- rooms, tarragon, parsley, salads. Fruits—Apples, quinces, walnuts, filberts, nuts. Especially in Season in November.—Pike, tench, plaice, dory, grouse, hares, snipes, woodcocks, chestnuts. December. 125 Meat.—Beef, veal, mutton, doe-venison. Poultry and Game.—Hares, rabbits, pheasants, grouse, partridges, woodcocks, snipes, fowls, pullets, chickens, turkeys, widgeons, pea-fowl, larks, capons. Fish.—Sturgeon, turbot, soles, skate, codfish, haddocks, smelts, dory, gurnet, herrings, sprats, oysters, mussels, cockles, lobsters, shellfish, perch, carp, ling, dace. Vegetables.—Cabbages, broccoli, savoys, Brussels sprouts, Scotch kale, sea-kale, spinach, endive, cardoons, lettuces, skirret, salsify, scorzonera, sorrel, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, celery, shallots, mushrooms, parsley, horseradish. Fruits.—Apples, medlars, figs, filberts, nuts, walnuts, cur- ra Especially in Season in December. — Haddocks, dace, tench, cod, dory, ling, skate, turbot, capon, pea-fowl.46 FOODS FOR THE FAT. EXAMPLES OF DIETARY. First Day. Breakfast. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or Coffee in the same way. Bread, stale, 2 oz. Mutton Kidneys, fried (126), or Broiled Mackerel (136). Dinner. Julienne Soup (171). Gray Mullet, broiled, with Gooseberry Sauce. Stewed Pigeons and Mushrooms (239), or Boast Babbit (226). Asparagus, boiled (399). French Beans (300). Claret Jelly (342). High Tea or Supper. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or some light Wine or weak Spirits-and-water. Dry Toast or Gluten Bread.* Oysters (197). Irish Sandwiches (133). Second Day. Breakfast. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or Coffee in the same way. Bread, stale, 2 oz. Fish Rissoles (150), or Eggs and Mushrooms (161). * See page 28.47 EXAMPLES OF DIETARY. Dinner. Pheasant Soup (176). Boiled Soles (221). Mutton, neck of, boiled (255). Pheasant, Salmi of (247). Mashed Artichokes (323). Green Peas, boiled (305). Damsons, Compote of (360). High Tea or Supper. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or some light Wine or Lemonade. Dry Toast or Gluten Biscuits. Kidney Omelette (164). Potted Pheasant (168). Third Day. Breakfast. Tea or Coffee, with Saccharin and Cream. Thin Toast, with Indian Devil Mixture (142). Brawn (148). Dinner. Kabbit Soup (187). Whitings, fried (205). Mutton, kebobbed (256). Partridges, broiled (250). Mashed Turnips (310). Curried Tomatoes (327). Stewed Apples (13). High Tea or Supper. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or some light Wine or weak Spirits-and-water. Savoury Omelette (143). Chicken a la Marengo (272).48 FOODS FOR THE FAT. Fourth Day. Breakfast. Tea or Coffee, with Saccharin and Cream. Thin Toast or Gluten Bread. Mackerel, boiled (135). Grilled Mushrooms (130). Dinner. Oxtail Soup, clear (175). Crimped Cod (224) with Tartare Sauce (378). Minced Beef (279). Guinea-fowl, roasted (235). Sea-kale, boiled (291). Cardoons, boiled (316). Strawberry Jelly (348). High Tea or Supper. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or some light Wine or Lemonade. Oyster Fritters (223). Lobster, Sauce Mayonnaise (376). Fifth Day. Breakfast. Tea or Coffee, with Saccharin and Cream. Stale Bread or Thin Dry Toast. Sweetbreads, browned (154). Bloaters (159). Dinner. Giblet Souj). Whitings, aux Fines Herbes (207). Sweetbreads with Piquante Sauce (241). Onions with Beef Steak (263). Spinach with Cream (318). Custard (352).EXAMPLES OF DIETARY. -I1) High Tea or Supper. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or some light Wine or weak Spirits-and-water. Cold Game (385). Sheep's Tongues, stewed (149). Sixth Day. Breakfast. Tea or Coffee, with Saccharin and Cream. Gluten Bread or Thin Toast. Mutton Kidneys, stewed (132). Dried Haddock (162). Dinner. Brown Soup (192). Plaice, filleted (215). Oxtail stewed with Spinach (226). Perdrix aux Vin (244). French Beans (300). Calf's-foot Jelly (338). High Tea or Slipper. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or some light Wine or Lemonade. Stale Bread. Lobster Salad (203). Comp6te of Cherries (349). Seventh Day. Breakfast. Tea or Coffee, with Saccharin and Cream. Gluten Bread or Thin Toast. Kidney Omelette (164). Broiled Trout (170). 450 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [I26- Dinner. Mulligatawny Soup. Smelts, broiled (214), or Sole aux Vin Blanc (219). Rabbit a la Tartare (267). Calf's Liver a la Mode (276). Stewed Lettuce (293). Boiled Turnips (297). Stewed Prunes (340). High Tea or Supper. Tea with Saccharin and Cream, or some light Wine or weak Spirits-and-water. Cold Salmi of Partridges (252). Eggs and Garlic (160). Gooseberry Fool. These menus will admit of a large selection of change, and of a varied mode of life with regard to the meal and the hour of taking it; but at least five hours should elapse between each repast, enough being taken to satisfy the appetite, but no more. BREAKFAST DISHES. Mutton Kidneys, Fried. 126. Put the kidneys into a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, and a little pepper sprinkled over them. When done on one side, turn for an equal time on the other. Remove to a hot dish, add pepper, cayenne, salt, and a little sauce (Harvey's or any other), and pour the gravy from the pan over them. Serve hot, on thin, dry toast. Time, seven or eight minutes. Mutton Chops. 127. Take chops from the best end of the neck, saw off about four inches from the top and the chinebones. Cut away the skin and gristle from the upper end of the bone, whichBREAKFAST DISHES. will give the cutlet a round, plump appearance. Sprinkle each chop with salt and pepper, dip them separately into dissolved butter, and broil over a brisk fire. A trimmed mutton cutlet of five ounces in weight will require about six minutes to cook. Mushroom Toast. 128. Stew over a gentle fire a quart of nicely-prepared mushrooms (just opened ones), first dissolving one ounce of butter in the stewpan, and seasoning the mushrooms with white pepper or cayenne, a saltspoonful of mace powdered; stir them carefully, and toss them in the pan to prevent burn- ing and until the butter is dried and slightly brown, when add half a pint of stock, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a little salt, and stew until the mushrooms are tender. Mushrooms (au Bkurre). 129. Trim the stems, and rub two pints of button mush- rooms with flannel dipped in salt. Put them in a stewpan with three ounces of good butter slightly browned, and stir them very gently to get the butter well about them. Shake the pan over a moderate fire, that the mushrooms may not settle at the bottom. When they have well imbibed the butter, add a little pounded mace, salt, and cayenne, and cover closely by the side of the fire to simmer until tender, when they will be found excellent without any other addition. Serve them hot on thin dry toast. Mushrooms, Grilled. 130. Cut the stalks, peel and score lightly the underside of large mushroom flaps, which should be firm and fresh gathered. Season them with pepper and salt, and steep them in a marinade of oil or melted butter. If quite sound, they may be laid on a gridiron over a slow even fire, and grilled on both sides ; but they are best done in the oven if at all bruised. 4—2FOODS FOR THE FAT. Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Puree. 131. Trim cutlets from well-hung mutton, beat them into shape after removing the chinebone, dip them into dissolved butter, brush them with egg, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling fat, and turn them frequently during the frying. Put them on blotting-paper before the fire to drain. Have ready a puree of fresh tomatoes made as follows : Pick a pound of ripe tomatoes, break them open, and put them without their seeds into a stewpan, with an onion or a couple of shallots, sweet herbs and spice, if liked, salt and pepper; stir over a slow fire till the tomatoes can be pulped through a hair-sieve ; return the pulp to the stewpan to simmer, add an ounce of butter well worked together in a little flour, and stir in two ounces of meat-glaze. Arrange the cutlets in a circle a little overlapping each other, and fill the centre with the pur6e. Mutton Kidneys, Stewed (a la francaise). 132. Eemove the skins from half a dozen or less fine mutton kidneys and cut them lengthwise into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness. Season each piece rather highly with salt and cayenne, and dip it into some finely powdered sweet herbs, namely, parsley and thyme—two-thirds of the former and one of the latter. Three or four finely minced shallots may be added if liked. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in the frying-pan and put in the kidneys. Let them brown on both sides. When nearly cooked, dredge a little flour quickly over them, add a quarter of a pint of boiling stock or water, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup and the strained juice of half a lemon. When the gravy is just upon the point of boiling, lift out the kidneys, put them on a hot dish, and two tablespoonfuls of claret to the same, let it boil for one minute, then pour it over the meat. Garnish with fried sippets. Time, six minutes to fry the kidneys.,36 ] BREAKFAST DISHES. 53 Irish Sandwiches. 133 Cut the meat in very thin slices from partridges, grouse or any game that lias been roasted, and shred some celery. Lay the° meat on delicately thin fresh toast—it should be crisp and not tough—strew celery over, and season well with Tartar sauce. Serve in squares on a napkin. Lamb Cutlets, Superlative. 134. Take a tablespoonful of each of the following ingredients, all finely minced: parsley, shallots, mushrooms and lean ham. Put these into a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, and stir them over the fire for five minutes. Add a quarter of a pint of sauce, a little pepper and salt, half a dessertspoonful of strained lemon-juice, three grates of nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs. Stir the sauce over the fire till it thickens, but it must°not bod. Partially fry the cutlets, when nearly cold dip them into the above preparation and place them upon ice until the sauce is set. Dip the cutlets in egg, fry, and serve them with a puree of spinach or green peas. Time, twenty minutes to fry the cutlets—ten minutes each time. Mackerel, Boiled. 135. Wash and clean carefully after removing the roes. The mackerel is in its greatest perfection when it has roe. Lay the fish and roes separately into cold water, and to a gallon of water add from three to four ounces of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of white vinegar ; when at boiling-point skim, and simmer only until done. Much depends on the size of the fish. Remove at once when done, or from their great delicacy of skin they will crack if kept in the water. The usual test, when the eyes start and the tail splits, should be attended to. Serve on a napkin with the roe. Mackerel, Broiled. 136. Large fresh fish should be procured for broiling. Cleanse the fish thoroughly and dry in a cloth, or hang up in54 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [,37. the air 0pen it down the back, rub the inside with a little salt and cayenne mixed, and smear with clarified butter or good oil. Put it into a thickly buttered paper loosely fastened at each end, and broil over a clear fire, or it may be broiled without the paper, though the former mode renders the fish so cooked more delicate, and not so apt to disagree with the stomach as when exposed to the fire uncovered. Mackerel, Broiled, and Tarragon Butter. 137. Bemove the inside of the fish through the gills and vent without opening it. Wash, clean, dry, and make a deep incision down the back, lay the fish in a little salad-oil, keep it well basted for three-quarters of an hour, but cut off the nose or part of the head and tail before it is steeped in the oil. Broil over a clear fire, and when done have ready the following mixture, with which fill up the incision : Work a little butter, pepper, salt and tarragon leaves, chopped and steeped in vinegar together. When ready, serve the mackerel with some of the butter spread over it on a hot dish. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes to broil. Meat Rissoles, German. 138. Fry two or three ounces of bacon cut into small squares, then add the following ingredients : To a well-beaten egg stir a quarter of a pound of well minced cold meat, a quarter of a pound of soaked bread (squeezed dry), a tablespoonful of chopped onion, another of parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. When these ingredients are fried sufficiently, turn them out into a basin until nearly cold, then add a couple of eggs, beat all well together, form the mixture into balls about tbe size of an egg and fry for six minutes, or drop them into boil- ing soup stock or water: pour gravy over them before serving. Time to make, half an hour; sufficient for six balls.,4, j BREAKFAST DISHES. 55 Pigs' Kidneys, Broiled. 139 Split the kidneys lengthwise from'the rounded part, without separating them entirely. Peel off the skin, and pass a wooden or metal skewer through them to keep them flat Sprinkle a little pepper, salt and powdered sage over them, oil them slightly, and broil them over a clear fire, the hollow side first, so that the gravy may be kept in when they are turned Serve on a hot dish, either with or without maitre d hotel sauce in a tureen. Time to broil the kidneys, four minutes each side, or more according to size. Pigs' Kidneys, Fried. 140. Peel the kidneys, cut them into slices, dip them in clarified butter, and afterwards into a mixture made of two finely minced shallots, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Fry them in an ounce of butter until they are lightly browned, put them into a hot dish, and mix with the butter two tablespoon- fuls of thick brown gravy, and two tablespoonfuls of claret. Boil the sauce, pour it over the kidneys and serve hot. If no sauce is at hand, take the kidneys up, mix a teaspoonful of flour smoothly into the butter in the pan, add a wineglassful of boiling water, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a little salt and cayenne and a glassful of claret. Boil the sauce and strain it over the kidneys. Time to fry six minutes. Hunter's Beef. 141. Take as lean a piece as can be procured of the flank of beef—the thin end is the best. Take out the bones and rub the meat well every day for a fortnight with a mix- ture made of one pound of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, one ounce of pounded cloves, and one grated nutmeg. At the end of the time roll it as closely and firmly as possible, and bind it securely with skewers and tape. Just cover it with water, and boil or bake it for five or six hours. Do not loosen the tapes, etc., until the meat is quite cold.56 FOODS FOR THE FAT r,„ Indian Devil Mixture. 142. To a tablespoonful each of vinegar, ketchup, and chutney-paste, add an ounce of dissolved butter, a dessert- spoonful of made mustard, salt, and a small cup of good rich gravy. Blend these ingredients thoroughly, and rub them into the meat. Make all hot together slowly. Time, ten minutes to make hot. Savoury Omelette. 143. Beat the yolks of four eggs till almost white j beat the whites of four eggs for the same time; beat the two together for five minutes after adding a teacup of milk, some finely- chopped parsley, a dessertspoonful of pickled mushrooms, minced very small, and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs. Add salt and pepper to taste. Beat well. Fry an onion cut in four pieces in some butter, and when boiling take it out before pouring in the omelette mixture. Hold the pan over a clear fire, with a fish-slice fold the omelette when fried a light brown, and serve in a very hot dish. Baked Eggs. 144. Well butter some tin patty-pans; break a fresh egg into each; place a lump of butter, some salt, a little cayenne and a little chopped parsley on the top of each. Put in the oven to bake. Fried Soles, or Fried Slices of Cod. 145. Cleanse the fish, and two hours before they are wanted rub them inside and out with salt; wash and rub them very dry, dip them into egg j fry them in boiling lard, dish on a hot napkin, and garnish with crisped parsley. Grilled Kippered Salmon. 146. Cut some dried salmon into narrow pieces, about two inches wide and four long ; broil them over a clear fire, then„, BREAKFAST DISHES. 57 149-J rub them over with fresh butter seasoned with lemon-juice and cayenne. Serve very hot. Devilled Hot Meat. 147 Cut some cold meat in slices, and then rub it with the following mixture : a tablespoonful of ketchup one of vinegar, two of made mustard, one of salt, and two of butter four tablespoonfuls of cold gravy, one of curry-paste ; mix all as smooth as possible. When rubbed with the mixture put it to the grill before a good lire. Take what is left of the sauce and make it warm, and pour over the grill before sending it to table. Brawn. 148 Clean and wash a pig's head of six or seven pounds, and put it into a stewpan with two pounds of lean beef ; cover with cold water, and boil until the bones are easily re- moved, skimming often. Mince the beef and head as due as possible, but don't let it get cold. Season with fine cloves, a lot of pepper, salt, and cayenne. Stir briskly together, and put into a cake-mould with a heavy weight on the top. Let it stand for six hours. Dip the mould in boiling water when required, and turn the brawn out on a dish. Decorate with green parsley, and serve cold. Sheeps' Tongues, Stewed. 149 Put the tongues into cold water, bring to a boil till tender enough to remove the skins. Then split them and lay them in a stewpan with enough good gravy to cover them. Chop some parsley, some mushrooms and onion, finely j work a lump of butter with it, and season with pepper and salt to taste Add it to the gravy, and stew till tender; then lay them in a dish, strain the gravy, pour it very hot over the tongues, and serve.58 FOODS FOR THE FAT. ^.Qm Fish Rissoles. 150 Take the remains of cold salmon, or any white fish, free it from bones and skin, pound in a mortar with pepper salt, cayenne, and a little butter, until it is a smooth paste' but not too dry; make it up into small round balls: wash these over with beaten egg, roll in very fine breadcrumbs, fry a pale gold colour. Serve piled high on cut paper. Baked Whitings. 151. Clean four or six whitings well, cut off the heads, season well with pepper and salt ■ butter a pudding-dish at the bottom, lay in the fish, sprinkle them over with more butter and two tablespoonfuls of any light wine, cover with thick buttered-paper, put them in a moderate oven for half an hour; mix together three tablespoonfuls of chablis, two tea- spoonfuls of finely-chopped herbs, one dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, two tablespoonfuls of gravy, a little cayenne; boil these together for a few minutes, pour over the fish, return them to the oven, and let them do slowly for half an hour more. Kidney Balls. 152. Chop a veal kidney and some of the fat, some leek or onion, black pepper, and salt to taste; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Deviled Pheasants' or Chickens' Legs. 153. Cut off legs from cold pheasants, score them with a sharp knife, put pepper and mustard and a little salt into the cuts ; broil them with a piece of cold butter on each. Serve very hot. Sweetbreads, Browned. 154. Soak, blanch, and stew the sweetbreads in as much good and nicely flavoured stock as will barely cover them.,S7 3 BREAKFAST DISHES. 59 When they have simmered about half an hour take them^up and put them into a round saucepan just large enough to hold them, with a good slice of fresh butter, which has been melted and is just beginning to brown. Turn the sweetbreads over and over till they are equally and brightly browned m every part. Keep them hot by the side of the stove. Thicken the stock in which they are boiled with brown thickening. Flavour with mushroom ketchup and lemon-juice, and add a table- spoonful of light wine. Place the sweetbreads on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Trout, Fried. 155 Empty, clean, and dry the fish thoroughly ; cut off the fins and gills, but leave the heads on. Rub them over with flour, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. When they are brown on one side turn them carefully upon the other. Lift them out and drain them on blotting-paper before the fire. Serve on a hot napkin and garnish with parsley. Red Mullet, Baked. 156. Wash the mullet and rub it well with lemon-juice ; put it in a tin dish, with a large mushroom finely chopped, two shallots chopped, three thin slices of carrot, and four sprigs of parsley chopped, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, a quarter of a pint of chablis ; bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Baste constantly with dissolved butter ; serve with the sauce poured over the mullet. This recipe is written for a large mullet. Baked Herrings. 157. Take off the heads of six herrings, put them into a deep dish, and season with a saltspoonful of pepper, a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, two cloves, four allspice, six peppercorns, a blade of mace, half an inch of bruised ginger, and a teaspoonful of grated horseradish; add a gill of cold water and a gill of good vinegar. Bake in a60 POODS FOR THE FAT. [isg. slow oven for half an hour. Serve cold, with the sauce strained and a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives added. Ling, Fresh. 158. Take one pound of ling, cut it into pieces three- quarters of an inch thick, rub it with pepper and salt, and put it on the gridiron over a clear fire ; in about ten minutes it will be done. Serve it plain, or with lemon or vinegar. Bloaters. 159 Open the bloaters down the back and bone them Lay the fish one on the other (insides together), and broil over a clear fire. When sent to table they are separated, laid on a hot dish, and rubbed over with a little butter • or, split up take out the bakebone, trim off the head, tail, and fins' double the fish over, and broil from five to six minutes over a clear fire. Eggs and Garlic. 160. Pound ten cloves of garlic that have been boiled for twenty minutes—the water having been changed during the boiling—with a couple of anchovies; put them, when well- pounded, into a stewpan, and add two tablespoonfuls of oil, the beaten yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of vinegar' some pepper and salt, and mix all together while being treated. Put the mixture on a dish, and serve with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Four eggs will cut slices enough for this dish. Time, ten minutes to dress eggs ■ two or three minutes to warm the mixture. Eggs and Mushrooms. 161. Cut off the ends and stalks from half a pint of mush- room buttons; put them into a basin of water with a little lemon-juice as they are done. Drain and slice them with some large onions, which fry in butter. If liked, the onions can be omitted and the mushrooms can be stewed whole.Ifi4] BREAKFAST DISHES. 61 Put the mushrooms when tender on a dish, break some eggs upon them to cover the surface, and in doing this be careful not to break the yolks of the eggs. Season with salt and pepper, sprinkle browned crumbs on the top, and put the dish in a hot oven till the eggs are set. Serve immediately, lime to stew mushrooms, from ten to fifteen minutes. Dried Haddock. 162. Boil it in a frying-pan, with just enough water to cover it; put it on a drainer to drain, then put it before the fire with a large piece of butter on it. Herrings, Pickled. 163. Take half a pound of salt, half a pound of bay-salt, one grain of saccharin, and an ounce of saltpetre. Pound all well together until reduced to a fine powder. Procure the herrings as fresh as possible, cut off the heads and tails, open them, and lay them for one hour in brine strong enough to float'an egg. Drain, dry the fish with a soft cloth, and put them in layers into a deep jar, with a little of the powder between each layer, and a little both at the top and bottom of the jar. When the jar is full press it down and cover it closely. The fish will be ready in three months. Kidney Omelette. 164. Take two sheep's kidneys and cut into slices; fry them over a clear fire for three or four minutes in a little butter; mince them finely, season with pepper and salt, beat up the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, add the minced kidney to them. Put an ounce of butter in an omelette-pan, let it remain on a slow fire until it bubbles, then pour in the mixture, and stir briskly for a minute or two until the eggs are set. Fold the edges of the omelette over neatly, and turn it carefully upon a hot dish. Serve immediately. If too much cooled it will be tough.62 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [l6s. Kidneys, Minced. 165. Chop some ox kidney into pieces the size of a pea season them rather highly with salt and cayenne, and fry them in one ounce of hot butter for a quarter of an hour moving them about frequently in the pan that they may be equally cooked. Moisten the mince with two or three table- spoonfuls of good brown gravy. Broiled Mutton Kidneys. 166. Split them open lengthwise without dividing them strip off the skin and fat, run a fine skewer through the points and across the back of the kidneys to keep them flat while broiling, season them with pepper or cavenne, lay them over a clear, brisk fire with the cut sides towards it; turn them in from four to five minutes, and in as many more dish and serve them quickly, with or without a cold maltre d'hdtel sauce under them. Season them with pepper and fine salt and brush a very small quantity of oil or clarified butter over them before they are broiled. Duck Olives. 167. Out into two joints the legs of a cold duck or chicken, take off the drum-sticks, mix half a teaspoonful of pepper with five or six teaspoonfuls of breadcrumbs, some mixed herbs, a very finely chopped onion, and two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Cut four thin slices of bacon, sprinkle with the crumbs, roll up each joint of fowl in the bacon, tie securely ; make hot in a frying-pan or before the fire. Serve on a piece of dry toast thinly buttered. Potted Pheasant. 168. Eoast the birds as for the table, but let them be thoroughly done, for if the gravy be left in the meat will not keep half so well. Eaise the flesh of the breast, wings, and merrythought quite clear from the bones; take off the skin,l7l ] BREAKFAST DISHES. 63 mince, and then pound it very smoothly with about one-third of its weight of fresh butter, or something less if the meat should appear of a proper consistence without the full quantity; season it with salt, mace, and cayenne only, and add these in small portions until the meat is rather highly flavoured with both the last. Put in pots, and pour oiled butter over them. Veal Cake. 169. Cut all the brown off some slices of cold veal, and cut two hard-boiled eggs into slices. Get a pretty mould, lay ham, veal, and eggs in layers, and some chopped parsley and a little pepper between each, and when the mould is full get some strong stock, and fill up the shape. Bake half an hour, and when cold turn out. Broiled Trout. 170. When the fish is thoroughly cleaned, wipe it dry in a cloth, and tie it round with thread (to preserve its shape). Melt a quarter of a pound of butter with a tablespoonful of salt, and pour it over the trout till quite covered; let it re- main in it for five minutes, then take it out and place on a grid- iron over a clear fire, and let it cook gradually for fifteen minutes. SOUPS. Julienne Soup. 171. Take three carrots, three turnips, the white part of a heart of celery, three onions, and three leeks. Wash and dry the vegetables, and cut them into thin shreds, which should be not more than one inch in length. Place the shreds in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and stir them over a slow fire until slightly browned. Pour over them three quarts of clear stock, and simmer gently for an hour, or until the veget- ables are tender. Carefully remove the scum and grease, and half an hour before the soup is done enough add two pinches64 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [I72. of salt and two pinches of pepper. Julienne is seasonable for nine months of the year only. Mulligatawny Soup, Rabbit. 172. Cut up two young rabbits into small pieces, and fry them in butter until they are nearly dressed enough, with four onions sliced finely. Place these in a stewpan, pour in a quart of stock, and simmer for an hour. Then take out the rabbit and strain off the onions, replace the rabbit in the stew- pan with two more quarts of stock as good as you wish to make it, and when it boils stir in two tablespoonfuls of curry- powder flavoured as you may prefer. Hunter's Soup. 173. Partially roast a brace of well-kept partridges, or a partridge and a grouse. Put them rather close to a clear fire, and baste them plentifully. As soon as the outside is well browned, take them up, and when nearly cold cut the meat from the bones into nice fillets, and bruise the bones thoroughly. Cut half a pound of lean ham into dice, and fry these in one ounce of butter, with a sliced carrot, an onion, and a little parsley. Add two quarts of strong beef gravy, the bruised bones, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer gently for two hours, and then strain the soup. Add the slices of meat and a glass of claret, and let it heat once more without boiliug. Mulligatawny Soup. 174. This is a soup of any kind flavoured with curry- powder. It is highly stimulating, gives tone and vigour to the digestive organs, and is frequently acceptable in very hot or cold climates. Nevertheless we do not recommend its frequent use, though it may occasionally be resorted to on festive occasions.SOUPS. 65 176.] Ox-Tail Soup, Clear. > 175. Cut a fine, fresh ox-tail into pieces about an inch long, and divide the thick part into four. Wash these pieces, and throw thern into boiling water for a quarter of an hour, then drain and wipe them with a soft cloth. Put them into a stewpan with two carrots, an onion stuck with three cloves, a sprig of parsley, a small piece of thyme, two or three sticks of celery, half a blade of mace, a teaspoonful of salt, six or eight peppercorns, and a quart of water or clear stock. Boil, re- move the scum carefully as it rises, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Lift out the pieces of ox-tail, and strain the soup. Pheasant Soup. 176. Flour a well-hung pheasant rather thickly, put it down to a brisk fire, and roast it for a quarter of an hour, basting it plentifully all the time. Take it from the fire and let it get nearly cold, then take off the flesh from the breast and the upper part of the wings, skin it and put it aside. Cut up the rest of the bird, and bruise the bones. Scrape a small carrot finely, put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, an ounce of the leau of an unboiled ham finely minced, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a handful of parsley, half a blade of mace, three or four cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a shallot, and three or four of the outer sticks of a head of celery. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire until they are brightly browned, put in the flesh and the bruised body of the bird, pour over them a quart of veal or beef stock, and after boiling stew gently for half an hour, and be careful to remove the scum as it rises. Strain the soup, and rub the meat through a sieve. Mix the puree with the soup, add to it a small pinch of cayenne, a little salt, a glassful of chablis, and the fillets of the pheasant cut into thick slices. Stir over the fire until it is quite hot, and serve. Time, an hour and a half or more.66 FOODS FOR THE FAT. ['77- Piieasant Soup—Another Way. 177. lioast a well-hung pheasant according to the directions given in the last recipe. Take off the flesh from the breast and wings; skin it and lay it aside. Divide the rest of the bird into joints, put it into a stewpan, pour over it a quart of unseasoned beef stock, let it boil and simmer gently for three hours. Strain the soup and carefully rub the meat through a sieve. Pound the flesh of the breast in a mortar until it is reduced to a smooth paste; mix with it an ounce of fresh butter, a large teaspoonful of salt, a blade of mace powdered, and a pinch of cayenne. Mix this paste with the soup, stir it over the fire until it is quite hot, skim carefully, and serve. Time, nearly five hours. Hare Soup. 178. Take the remains of a hare wbich has been roasted the day before, add to it a few bits of parsley, a stick of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, also about a quart of water or weak stock. Simmer gently until the meat is nearly off the bones; strain it, pick the meat off the bones ; rub this well through a hair or fine wire sieve; add it to the soup with pepper, salt, and half a glass of port wine. Fowl or Chicken Soup. 179. Have ready about two quarts of stock from veal bones, put to it some vegetables—carrot, onion, celery, parsley and sweet herbs. Take a fowl or chicken, cut it into four pieces, put it into the stock, boil or simmer gently till tender. Strain the soup; add to it the beaten yolks of two eggs, pepper and salt to taste. Cut some of the best meat off the fowl in neat pieces or joints, and add them also. Warm well and serve. A chicken if youug will not require to stew so long as the vegetables.67 SOUPS. lS2.] Game Soup. 180. Take any game too old for roasting—a couple of partridges or three moor-fowl; stew them well and slowly in about three pints of stock. When tender, take them out, cut off some of the best pieces, return the rest to the soup ; add pepper, salt, and a little ketchup. Let this simmer gently while you prepare the pieces you have cut off. Take these pieces, trim them neatly, season well, shake a little flour over and fry a nice brown, but don't let them be greasy. Strain the soup through a sieve, rubbing as much of the meat through from the game as you can ; return the soup to the pan, put in the fried pieces of game; make it very hot, and serve. Green Pea Soup. 181. Take a quart of green peas, a stick of celery, an onion and turnip, all cut, some mint, and about a quart of stock. Stew till tender, then pass through a fine sieve. If too thick, add some more stock; add salt, pepper, and a little saccharin; have ready about a pint of young green peas, parboiled in water with a little mint, add them to the soup, and let the whole simmer until tender, then serve. Oyster Soup. 182. Allow about three dozen to a quart of soup. Open them carefully, keep and strain the liquor from them, beard the oysters, and put the strained liquor over them. Take a quart of the palest veal stock and simmer the beards in it for twenty minutes ; strain, adding a little more stock if required. Put the oysters over the fire in their own liquor to plump them, but do not let them boil. Put the soup over the fire, add mace and cayenne, pour the liquor from the oysters to it, put the oysters into the tureen, and pour the soup over them and serve. 5—268 FOODS FOR THE FAT. Fish Soup. 183. Take any white or fresh-water fish, cut off some of the best pieces, boil the bones and the other parts of the fish in a quart of water for an hour ; let it get cold, or nearly so ; slice a small onion, then put one ounce of butter into a saucepan, put in the onion, let it brown; then lay in the pieces of fish which were kept, add pepper, salt, a glass of chablis, a tomato sliced and cored ; pour on to it the liquid from the fish bones, straining it to prevent the bits going in ; add a little chopped parsley ; simmer a quarter of an hour. Serve with fried toast. Tomato Soup. 184. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, slice six tomatoes, two carrots, one onion, four ounces of veal, and one of ham, add to the butter, let it steam a quarter of an hour, then add a good quart of stock (made from bones or beef), pepper, salt and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer half an hour, take out the herbs, and pulp the rest though a sieve. Kidney Soup. 185. Add to the liquor of a boiled leg of mutton a bullock's kidney, put it over the fire, and when half done take out the kidney, and cut it into pieces the size of dice. Add three sticks of celery, three or four turnips, and the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs tied together; season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding a spoonful of mushroom ketchup. When done, take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. White Soup. 186. Chop up any remains you may have of cold veal, chicken, game or rabbit roasted dry. Grate them, beat them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Then add to the188.] S°UPS- 69 panada a quart of stock, put it into a stewpan, and pay great attention to skimming it. Babbit Soup. 187 Skin and empty a tine rabbit, and lay the liver aside. Cut it into joints, and fry them lightly; put them in the stewpan with the liver and three pints of good s ock mad from bones ; let them simmer as gently as possible for an hour, or until the rabbit is done enough, carefully remov- ing the scum as it rises. Take out the rabbit, cut off the belt of the meat, lay it in a covered dish, and put it in a cool place. Bruise the bones and put them back into the stock, and with them two onions, a shallot a carrot a small bunch of parsley, a pinch of thyme, three or four outer sticks of celery, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer the broth two hours longer. Take out the liver, rub it till smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, moisten with a little of the liquor, and return it to the soup. Just before sending to table add half a glassful of claret and a teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup. Cut the pieces of meat into dice, let them get quite hot without boiling, and serve immediately, lime, three hours. Vegetable Soup. 188. Wash, trim, and cut into shreds an inch long a small cabbage, two large carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, two leeks, three onions, a large endive or a lettuce. Put them into an iron pot with half a pound of good butter, one or two grains of saccharin, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of curry-powder, and let them fry till of a good brown colour ; stir constantly to prevent burning. Add two quarts of water and boil moderately fast for two hours, skimming frequently. Put into the tureen a wineglassful of marsala and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Pour in the soup and serve at once.FOODS FOR THE FAT. 70 Cabbage Soup. 189. Scald one large cabbage, cut it up and drain it. Line a stewpan with four or five slices of lean bacon, put in the cabbage, also three carrots and two onions; moisten with a little stock, and simmer very gently till the cabbage is tender; add two quarts of stock, stew softly for half an hour, and carefully skim off every particle of fat. Season with salt and pepper to taste, and serve. Carrot Soup. 190. Scrape and cut out all specks from two pounds of carrots, wash and wipe them dry, and then reduce them into quarter-inch slices. Put three ounces of butter into a large stewpan, and when it is melted add two pounds of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour without brown- ing. Add to them two .quarts of stock or gravy-soup, and allow them to simmer till tender—say, for nearly an hour. Press them through a strainer with the soup, and add salt and cayenne if required. Boil the whole gently for five minutes, skim well, and serve as hot as possible. Brilla Soup. 191. Take four pounds of shin of beef, cut off all the meat from the bone in nice square pieces, and boil the bone in four quarts of water for four hours. Strain the liquor, let it cool, and take off the fat; then put the pieces of meat in the cold liquor; cut small three carrots, two turnips, one head of celery, two onions, add them with a large sprig of thyme, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer till the meat is tender. If not brown enough, colour it with browning. Brown Soup. 192. Take one pint of finely-flavoured stock; if not clear, beat up the white of an egg to a stiff froth, stir it in with the194] S0UPS- 71 crushed shell, and beat a little. Boil for five minutes, let it stand to settle, then pass carefully through a napkin or tammy Put it again on the fire in a clean saucepan; if not dark ,nou-h, stir in a little Liebig or some of Nelson's extract ot meit° Boil by themselves a few asparagus-tops or other vegetables ; .drain them when tender, and put them to the soup as it is about to be served. Giblet Soup. 193 Clean and prepare the giblets of a duck ; put them into a saucepan with oue ounce of butter, and brown very slightly; add half an onion, four peppercorns, a little salt, and a small bunch of herbs. Pour over the whole nearly one quart of hot water; stew gently until the meat is done to rags. Strain, and when perfectly cold remove every particle of fat. Mix this half-and-half with any other stock. Warm, add a dessert spoonful of chablis and a very little saccharin to a pint of this. Imperial Soup. 193*. To a gill of clear, well-flavoured stock mix three beaten e^s two spoonfuls of cream, salt and pepper. Stir the liquid, and put in a buttered basin or mould. Cover with greased paper that no water may enter, and steam the custard gently till set. When cool turn it out, cut it into thin slices, and divide these into small diamonds or squares. Serve in a tureen of clear soup. The above will be a sufficient quantity for two quarts of soup. Lobster Soup. 194. Pick the meat from a large freshly boiled new lobster, cut it into squares, and set it in a cool place until wanted. Take away the brown fin and bag in the head, and beat the small claws, the fins, and the chin in a mortar. Put them into a stewpan, and with them a small onion, a carrot, a bunch72 FOODS FORjTHE FAT. [l95. of sweet herbs, a stick of celery, the toasted crust of a French roll, a small strip of lemon-rind, a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a quart of unseasoned stock. Simmer all gently together for three-quarters of an hour, then press the soup through a tamis and return it again to the saucepan. Pound the coral to a smooth paste, and mix a little salt, pepper, and cayenne with it. Stir these into the soup, add the pieces, and when quite hot, without boiling, serve. FISH. Mullet, Gray, Broiled. 195. Scale, clean, and take out the gills and inside. A fish of about two pounds would be best for this mode of cooking. Score the mullet on both sides, lay it on a dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour three tablespoonfuls of oil over it. Turn on the dish, drain, and when to be broiled fold in oiled paper or not; the fire should be moderate and even. The scores should not be more than a quarter of an inch deep. Mullet, Stewed. 196. Make a sauce as follows : Put in a stewpan three wine- glassfuls of stock, slice thinly a small carrot and turnip, also half a small lemon, add a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and a bunch of thyme and parsley. Lay in the fish and stew gently over a slow fire. Strain the gravy, season with salt and pepper, and serve the fish on a hot dish. Oysters, Cold. 197. Oysters are never so excellent as when they are eaten uncooked, if only they are quite fresh and newly opened. Thin brown bread and butter is usually served with them, and either lemon-juice or vinegar and pepper; but the true lover of oysters prefers them with nothing but their own gravy.FISH. 73 200.] Oysters, Omelette of. 198. Mince well a dozen fried oysters. Mix with them half a dozen well-beaten eggs ; season the mixture with a small pinch of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated, and fry the omelette in the usual way. Or beat half a dozen eggs lightly, and fry them in hot fat until they are delicately set. Put three tablespoonfuls of oyster sauce into the centre, fold the omelette over, and serve on a hot dish. Oysters, Scalloped (A Simple Method). 199. Open and beard a dozen oysters and wash them in their own liquor. Scrape the deep shells and cleanse them thoroughly. Put an oyster in each one, season it with salt and pepper, and sprinkle breadcrumbs thickly upon it. Put some little pieces of butter on the top, arrange the shells on a dish, and bake in a quick oven or in a Dutch oven before a brisk fire until they are lightly browned. Serve very hot. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Perch fried with Herbs. 200. Take two moderate-sized perch, wash, empty, and scale them carefully, wipe them dry, and lay them on a dish; sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and pour on them six tablespoonfuls of oil. Let them soak for half an hour, and turn them once during that time. Drain them well, and cover them thinly with finely-grated breadcrumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and flavoured with a powdered clove or a little grated nutmeg, a tablespoonf ul of chopped parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Fry them in boiling fat till the fish are brightly browned. Serve on a hot dish ; garnish with parsley, and send piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry, ten minutes or more, according to size.74 foods for the fat. [201- Lobster, Cold. 201. Take off the large claws, and crack the shell lightly, without disfiguring the fish; split open the tail with a sharp knife, and dish the fish on a folded napkin, with the head in an upright position in the centre, and the tail and claws arranged neatly round it; garnish with parsley, salt, cayenne, mustard. Salad-oil and vinegar should be eaten with it. Lobster dressed with Sauce Piquante. 202. Pick the meat from the body and claws of a freshly- boiled cock lobster, and divide it into neat pieces about half an inch square. Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, pound them well, and mix with them a teaspoonful of raw mustard, half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a grain of cayenne; add very gradually by drops at first, beating well between every addition, one tablespoonful of salad-oil, and afterwards two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar and a dessertspoonful of very hot chilli vinegar; pour it just before serving over the lobster, and garnish with parsley. Lobster Salad. 203. In making lobster salad be careful that the lobster is sweet and fresh, and that the lettuces are crisp and dry. Unless the latter are perfectly free from moisture, the sauce, instead of blending properly, will be liable to float in oily particles on the top. Take the meat of one or two large lobsters, divide it into neat pieces, and season each piece slightly with pepper, salt and vinegar; place a bed of shred lettuce-hearts at the bottom of the dish, put a layer of lobster on top of it, mixed, if liked, with a few slices of cucumber, cover again with lettuce, and repeat until the materials are exhausted. Decorate the borders with any garnish that may suit the taste.75 FISH. Lobster a la Creme. 204. Pick the meat from a large freshly-boiled cock lobster, mince it finely, and put it into a saucepan with half a tea- spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of white pepper, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and one of light wine. When quite hot, put with it a little fresh butter lightly rolled in flour, and a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time, and when thoroughly heated put the mixture into the shell of the lobster, place it on a neatly folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Whiting, Fried. 205. These fish are generally cleaned and skinned at the shop ; if not, they must be done by the cook. The tails should be fastened into the mouth ; brush them over well with egg, beaten up, and fry a nice brown in boiling lard ; drain and dry well. Ihey will take from seven to ten minutes to fry. Whiting au G-ratin. 206. Take two full-sized whitings ; empty, scrape, cleanse, and wipe them, then make deep incisions on each side with a sharp knife, to the depth of a quarter of an inch; butter a shallow dish thickly, sprinkle upon it a little pepper and salt, pour gently over them one or two glassfuls of French light wine, and lay upon the fish two tablespooufuls of finely- minced mushrooms, mixed with a tablespoonful of parsley ; melt an ounce of butter, pour it over the fish, sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of bread-raspings on the top, and bake the whitings in the oven. Send a cut lemon only to table with the fish. If it is preferred that the wine should not be used, three or four tablespoonfuls of pale veal gravy may be sub- stituted for it.76 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [207- Whiting aux Fines Herbes. 207. Clean and skin the fish, and fasten it with its tail in its mouth. Place it on a dish, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder; lay little pieces of butter, here and there, thickly upon it, cover with another dish and bake in a moderately- heated oven till done enough. Turn it once or twice that it may be equally cooked, and serve with the sauce poured over it. Haddocks, Boiled. 208. Make them very clean, scrape the outside, empty them, and wash well; take out the gills, curl them round like whiting, or lay them flat in warm water with some salt in it. Let the water boil, skim it, then simmer for ten to twelve minutes. Serve very hot. Haddock, Baked. 209. Wash the fish, scrape off the scales, and in emptying it open it as little as possible ; sprinkle a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a large lemon upon it; let it stand two or three hours, turning it over once or twice during the time. Mix the finely-grated rind of half a lemon with two ounces of grated breadcrumbs j add half a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a quarter of a small nutmeg. Wipe the fish quite dry, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew the seasoned crumbs upon it; put it on a wire drainer in a dish, pour on it a little clarified butter, and bake it in a moderate oven. Baste it two or three times during the pro- cess. Send the gravy from the fish to table with it. Haddock, Fillets of. 210. Divide the flesh from the bone by running the edge of the knife along the side of the spine, and take off the skin.«M FISH- 77 Dip the fillets in beaten egg, roll them in fine breadcrumbs and then fry them in hot lard or dripping. When browned on both sides drain from the fat and serve them on a hot dish. Take a tablespoonful of mushrooms, chopped small, a table- spoonful of finely-minced shallots, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Put these into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of good brown sauce. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, and serve in a tureen. Red Mullet, Broiled. 211 Wash it well, dry in a cloth ; it is not usually scaled or opened. Put it into buttered writing-paper fastened tight at the ends j broil it over a clear fire for about half an hour, or it can be baked in a moderate oven for the same time. Take off the paper, and serve very hot. Red Mullet, Fried. 212 Melt two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, put in one good-sized or two small mullet, squeeze the juice of half a Temon over them, and season with pepper and salt. Let them fry over a gentle fire until they are done enough, turning them over when half done, that they may be equally cooked. Serve on a hot dish. Smelts. 213. These fish are very delicate and good, if quite fresh. Draw them at the gills, but don't open them; dry well in a cloth; dip them into beaten egg and fine breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling lard or fat for five to ten minutes. Smelts, Broiled. 214. Draw carefully and wipe a couple of large smelts, flour them well, and lay them on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When half done turn them carefully upon the other side. When they arc done enough, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle78 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [215. a little salt upon them, and serve immediately. A cut lemon or a little sauce may be sent to table with them if preferred. Plaice, Filleted. 215. Skin the plaice, lay it flat on the table, and with the point of a sharp knife cut right down the backbone. Insert the knife close to the head, slip it under the flesh, and pass it from head to tail; by this means the fillet may be removed entire and smooth, and the fish is ready to be fried or stewed. Stewed Whiting. 216. Take off the skin and the heads and tails ; lay the fish in a stewpan, and season each one with a quarter of a salt- spoonful of salt, one grain of white pepper, a quarter of a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, and for the whole (four or six) the grated rind of half a lemon. Pour in a quarter of a pound of dissolved butter, simmer for ten minutes ; add a large wineglassful of marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; simmer five minutes more. Place the fish neatly on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Send to table immediately. Boiled Whiting. 217. Whiting should be large for boiling, and with the skin taken off it is more delicate. Put it into boiling water, and simmer from twelve to eighteen minutes, according to the size; skim well. Drain, and serve on a neatly folded napkin. Boiled Plaice. 218. Large plaice is best for boiling. Put it into plenty of hot water, with a tablespoonful of salt and a wineglassful of vinegar; boil up quickly, slam, and then simmer gentlv for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Sole au Vin Blanc. 219. Put the sole, after it has been trimmed, into a fishpan, and with it some slices of onion, a faggot of sweet herbs, a couple221.] FISH. 79 of cloves, some peppercorns and salt. Spread some butter over the sole, and pour in enough French white wine to cover it. Let it boil for ten to twenty minutes, according to size of fish. Keep it covered while it is boiling. When it is done, remove the fish ; keep it hot while making the sauce. Strain the liquor, return it to the pan, and add the yolks of one or two eggs, according to the quantity of liquor; only do not put too much egg; just enough to thicken the sauce is required. Put in a little chopped parsley, pour the sauce over the fish when thoroughly hot, and serve at once.* Filleted Soles (Italian). 220. Skin and carefully wash the soles, separate the meat from the bone, and divide each fillet in two pieces. Brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle thinly with breadcrumbs and seasoning, and put them in a baking-dish. Place small pieces of butter over the whole, and bake for half an hour. When they are nearly done, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve on a dish with Italian sauce poured over. Boiled Sole. 221. Cleanse and wash the fish carefully, cut off the fins, but do not skin it. Lay it in a fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, salted with a little salt. Let it gradually come to a boil, and keep it simmering for a few minutes, according to the size of the fish. Dish it on a hot napkin after well draining it, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send lobster sauce to table with it. * Dr. Davy says : ' If we give our attention to classed people—classed as to the kind of food they principally subsist on—we shall find that the fish-eating class are especially strong, healthy, and prolific. In no other cla^s than in that of fishers do we see larger families, handsomer women, or more robust and active men. As an article of nourishment, fish does not possess the satisfying and stimulating properties that belong to the flesh of animals and birds. On account of its being less satisfying than meat, the appetite returns at shorter intervals, and a larger quantity is required to be consumed.'FOODS FOR THE FAT. So [222- Oysters, Baked. 222. Mix three tablespoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs with half a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Open a dozen oysters, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in the seasoned crumbs, put each one in its lower shell, and lay a small piece of butter upon it. Place the oysters in the oven or before the fire for a few minutes, until they are quite hot. Before serving squeeze a little lemon-juice upon them. Oyster Fritters. 223. Open a dozen oysters, and warm them in their own liquor for a minute ; put them aside. Beat two eggs, and mix with them half a tablespoonful of milk. Add a little salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a saltspoonful of pounded mace, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind. Dip the oysters into this batter, and then into finely-grated breadcrumbs. Fry in hot fat until they are brown and crisp. They may be used for garnishing. Cod, Crimped. 224. Make some deep cuts as far as the bones on both sides of a perfectly fresh cod, making the cuts at two inches distance, and cut one or two gashes on the cheeks ; then lay the fish in cold water, with a tablespoonful of vinegar in it, for an hour or two. It may afterwards be boiled or fried. If it is to be boiled, it should be plunged at once into boiling water, and then simmered gently. Crimping renders the flesh firmer, and makes it better both to cook and to serve.225.] GRAVY. 81 GRAVY. When meat is roasted, it exudes a thick brown essence known as osmazone; this in most houses is allowed to remain in the vessel or tin dish in which the meat or game has been cooked, and is then thrown away as of no use. The proper way to make gravy is to skim off the fat the meat has been basted with, and then pour either stock or boiling water on the osmazone, adding a little salt, and stirring until it is all dis- solved off the vessel or basting dish ; by this means a strong meat-flavoured gravy is obtained that has the characteristics of the meat cooked. Those who prefer a flavoured gravy can add Worcester sauce or port wine, according to taste. All fat should be carefully skimmed off before it is sent in a tureen to table, where this process is not carried out, a little Liebig's extract dissolved in boiling water is a substitute; but this has not the flavour of the particular dish cooked, and is not to be com- pared to the other process. Good gravy means good cooking, a rare thing in most households. DINNER, DISHES. Ox-tail, Stewed. 225. Take a fine ox-tail, disjoint it, cut it into pieces about one inch and a half long, and divide the thick parts into quarters. Throw these pieces into boiling water, and let them remain for a quarter of an hour. Take them up, wipe them with a soft cloth, and put them into a stewpan with two quarts of stock or water, a large onion stuck with three cloves, three carrots, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer gently until the meat parts easily from the bones, then put the pieces on a hot dish, reduce the gravy, strain it over them and garnish with toasted sippets. A little lemon- juice is by some persons considered an improvement. Time, three hours and a half to stew the tail. GFOODS FOR THE FAT. 8a [226- OX-TAIL STEWED WITH SPINACH. 226. Stew the ox-tail according to the directions given in the last recipe. When the meat is tender, lift it out, strain the gravy, and reduce it to half the quantity. Pour it again over the meat, let it simmer a few minutes, then serve the stew, neatly arranged in a circle on a hot dish with spinach in the centre. Beef Trice. 227. Beat and lard a juicy, tender steak of two pounds, lay it into a close-fitting covered stewpan, with equal quantities of water and vinegar. Add a little vegetable, particularly onion, and stew gently for two hours ; but do not allow it to burn or stick to the pan; when cold, cut the meat into strips, smear it with beaten egg, and strew over breadcrumbs well seasoned with pepper, shallot and suet. Fry till it is of a light brown colour, which will be in about ten minutes. Beefsteak, Fried. 228. If no gridiron is at hand, put some butter or dripping in a frying-pan and let it boil; then lay in a steak of half an inch thick, and move it continually with the side of a knife or steak-tongs to prevent it from burning. When sufficiently well done on one side, which will be seen by the colour being well spread over the meat, turn it on the other, continuing to move it about with the tongs in a similar manner. If a fork must be used, do not stick it into the juicy part of the meat, but into the fat or edge. When done, serve on a hot dish with a little butter and some mushroom ketchup, tomato or other sauce or gravy, as preferred. Calf's Heart, Boasted. 229. Wash the heart thoroughly in several waters, then leave it to soak for half an hour. Wipe it dry, and fill it232.] DINNER DISHES. 83 with good veal stuffing ; tie a piece of oiled paper around it, and roast it before a good fire for an hour and a half, or more, according to the size. Before serving, take off the paper, and baste it well. Send it to table with plenty of good brown gravy.* Calf's Sweetbreads, Stewed. 230. Put two sweetbreads into a stewpan with some nicely flavoured stock, and let them simmer gently for three- quarters of an hour or more. Take them out and place them on a hot dish. Draw the gravy from the fire for a minute or two, and add to it very gradually the yolk of an egg. Put this over a gentle fire until the sauce thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Just before serving, squeeze into it the juice of a lemon. Minced Collops. 231. Mince very well about one pound of raw beef (it must be tender and free from all skin or fat), season with salt and pepper. Put it into a saucepan, and stir with a fork frequently while it heats, to prevent its gathering into lumps ; it must be perfectly smooth. Continue to simmer it gently for about a quarter of an hour • if it gets too dry, add a small bit of butter and a tablespoonful of gravy, but if properly cooked it should not require this. Serve in a silver dish with hot water under, as it should be served very hot. Boned Shoulder oe Mutton 232. Bone a lean shoulder of mutton (it should be a small lean one for this purpose), cut off the knuckle-end and any loose bits of skin. Take some fresh or tinned oysters, strain the liquor from them and beard them, rinse them again well in the liquor. Lay your mutton on the table on the skin side, sprinkle it over well with a mixture of salt pepper and mace; then lay in your oysters, roll, and bind * See Gravy, page 81. 6—2FOODS FOR THE FAT. [233 round with tape. Take two ounces of butter, put it into a saucepan that will hold the mutton, melt it; then add a few slices of onion, some peppercorns, and a sprig of parsley ; let these brown a little, put in the mutton, add as much stock as will be about an inch or rather more deep in the pan, cover down and let it simmer gently for two or three hours, or till quite tender; strain the gravy, add to it a little ketchup, warm well, and pour round the mutton. Indian Hash. 233. Take some thin slices of cold mutton or beef, free from skin or fat, put them into a stewpan with some good stock; season with salt, pepper, a little mace, and add a bit of butter, also a slice of lemon without rind or pips; cover the pan, and simmer for ten minutes, but on no account let it boil. Grate the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rub smooth in a small basin, add to them a large teaspoonful of made mustard; take some of the gravy from the pan, put it to the above until it is a thin paste; pour this back into the pan, take out the lemon, let all simmer together for about five minutes. Serve hot. Mutton, Curried. 234. Cut one pound of tender cold mutton in small square pieces. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, make t boiling hot, add two ounces of onion finely minced, brown this slightly. Then add one ounce of curry-powder and one saltspoonful of salt, stir over the fire until the curry-powder is well mixed in, then put in the mutton, and enough stock to keep it all soft, but it must not be liquid. Let it stew gently for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. Guinea Fowl, Eoasted. 235 These birds should hang as long as they will before bein- cooked ; then they should be stuffed like a turkey, and served with gravy and a sauce piquante. They will take about an hour to roast.85 239-] DINNER DISFIES. Boiled Fowls. 236 Take one quart of boiling water and one quart of cold water; clean and truss your fowl carefully. The legs should be drawn, cutting the skin at the first joint, and then put under the skin into the bodies, while the wings should be cut off short and twisted back; no livers or gizzards should be trussed with boiled fowl. Put them into water, mixed as above, that will be about right heat, but it must entirely cover them j skim well when it comes to the boil, then simmer. For a fowl, an hour; for chickens, about half the time. Broiled Chicken. 237. This should first be boiled for about ten minutes ; then allow it to become cold, and split into two, wash over with beaten egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and broil it over a clear fire; it will take half an hour, or if a large chicken, longer. Serve very hot. The legs should be trussed like those of a boiled fowl, and should be made as flat as possible. The inside should be put first on the grid. Pigeons. 238. These are good roasted or stewed j if roasted, they should be used fresh and well basted, the heads and necks cut off, and trussed like a duck • pour plenty of water through them before trussing, and wipe dry. Put into the inside of each a little butter and a bit of cayenne. They will take almost twenty-five minutes, but if very young not so long. Stewed Pigeons and Mushrooms. 239. Put into a saucepan one ounce of fresh butter, cut up two pigeons into small pieces, let it stew a little, but not brown ; add one pint of good gravy, one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, salt, pepper and cayenne : stir well until it just boils,h6 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [240. then let it simmer well for three-quarters of an hour j add one or two dozen small mushrooms, and stew ten minutes longer ; then add two tablespoonfuls of cream. Serve on a hot dish, putting the mushrooms round the pigeons. Sweetbreads. 240. Have one or two very fresh sweetbreads, trim and half boil them in veal broth; leave till nearly cold, then wash them over well with the yolk of an egg, and put them into fine, dry breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper; shake them to allow any loose crumbs to drop off, then fry very gently in butter or lard. Sweetbreads with Sauce Piquante. 241. The sweetbread must first be blanched thus : Half boil it, then throw it into cold water for a minute or two, or it may be left in the water until nearly cool; butter it all over and flour well, put it into a Dutch oven before the fire, keep turning it and basting well with butter until it is nicely browned, but not dried. It will take three-quarters of an hour. Serve with the following sauce : Boil together a table- spoonful of chopped onion, same of parsley and of mushrooms, in one ounce of butter for five minutes, then add half a pint of good stock; add salt and cayenne, and stir in last one table- spoonful of vinegar. Boil a few minutes. Larks, Broiled. 242. Pick and clean a dozen larks, cut off their heads and legs, truss them firmly, rub them over with beaten egg, and strew breadcrumbs and a small pinch of salt over them. Broil them over a clear fire, and serve them on thin toasted bread.' Time, ten minutes. Liver, Fried. 243. Take one pound of fresh calf's liver, cut it into neat slices, a quarter of an inch thick ; cover the bottom of the246.] DINNER DISHES. 87 frying-pan with some clear dripping, a quarter of an inch in depth; place the pan on the fire, and, when the dripping ceases hissing, put in the liver, and in five minutes turn it. When done enough, dish it and serve very hot. Time, a quarter of an hour. Perdrix au Vin. 244. Roast two partridges ; put into a stewpan three table- spoonfuls of rich gravy, a glass of claret, salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne. Cut up the birds, keeping them very hot. Make the sauce very hot over the fire, and pour over the partridges. Pheasant, Boiled. 245. Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, and truss it firmly, as if for roasting; cover wkh buttered paper, wrap it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and after it has once boiled up draw it to the side, and let it simmer as gently as possible until it is done enough. The more gently it is simmered the better it will look, and the tenderer it will be. Put it on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of sauce over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time to boil, half an hour from the time of boiling for a small young bird ; three- quarters of an hour for a larger one ; one hour or more for an old one. Pheasant, Broiled. 246. Pick, draw and singe the pheasant, and divide it neatly into joints; fry these in a little fat until they are equally and lightly browned all over, drain them well, season with salt and cayenne, and dip them into egg and bread- crumbs. Broil over a clear fire and serve on a hot dish, with mushroom sauce or piquante sauce as an accompaniment. The remains of a cold roast pheasant may be treated in this way. Time to broil, about ten minutes.88 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [247. Pheasant, Salmi of. 247. Roast a well-hung pheasant until it is a little more than half-dressed, then take it from the fire, and when it is almost cold cut it into neat joints, and carefully remove the skin and fat. Put the meat aside until wanted, and place the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with an ounce of fresh butter, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and stir these in- gredients over a slow fire until they are lightly browned, then pour over them half a pint of good brown sauce and a glassful of sherry. Let them simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; strain the gravy, skim it carefully, add a pinch of cayenne and the juice of half a lemon, and put it back into the saucepan with the pieces of game. Let them heat very gradually, and on no account allow them to boil. Pile them on a hot dish, pour the hot sauce over them, and garnish with fried sippets. If there is no brown sauce at hand it may be prepared as follows : Mince finely a quarter of a pound of the lean of an unboiled ham, and put it into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, a shallot, a large scraped carrot, two or three mushrooms (if at hand), a blade of mace, a small sprig of thyme, a handful of parsley, two cloves, and half a dozen peppercorns. Stir these over a slow fire until they are brightly browned, then dredge a tablespoonful of flour over them, and let it colour also. Pour in gradually three-quarters of a pint of water and a glass- ful of sherry ; add a little salt and the bones and trimmings of the pheasants; let the sauce boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it keep simmei'ing for an hour and a half. Strain the gravy and skim carefully, put it back into the saucepan with the joints of meat, a little saccharin, and a little lemon-juice. Heat slowly and serve as above. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to roast the pheasant ; a quarter of an hour in the first instance, or an hour and a half in the second, to simmer the sauce.89 DINNER DISHES. 251.] Pheasant, Eoast. 248. Pluck, draw and singe a brace of pheasants. Wipe them with a dry cloth, truss them firmly, and either lard or tie round the breasts a piece of fat bacon. Flour them well, put them before a clear fire, and baste liberally. When they are done enough remove the bacon, serve the birds on a hot dish, and garnish with watercress. Send good brown gravy to table with them. If the fashion is liked, half a dozen of the best of the tail feathers may be stuck into the bird when it is dished. Time, three-quarters of an hour to roast a good-sized pheasant. The drumsticks are generally excellent when devilled. Peafowl, Larded and Roasted. 249. Choose a young bird, lard it closely over the breast and legs, fill it with a good veal forcemeat—but the forcemeat may be omitted—truss it firmly, and roast before a clear fire for an hour or an hour and a half, according to the size of the bird. When done enough, take off the buttered paper which was round the head, trim the feathers, glaze the larding, and serve the bird on a hot dish with a clear brown gravy under it. Garnish the dish with watercress. Partridges, Broiled. 250. Prepare the partridges as if for roasting, cut off their heads, split them entirely up the back, and flatten the breast- bones a little. Wipe them thoroughly inside and out with a damp cloth, season with salt and cayenne, and broil over a gentle fire. As soon as they are done enough rub them quickly over with butter, and send them to table on a hot dish, with brown gravy or mushroom sauce in a tureen. Time, fifteen minutes to broil the partridges. Partridges, Salmi of. 251. Prepare three partridges, lard the breasts well, and roast them, but leave them rather underdone. Leave till90 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [252- cold ; take off the skin and cut in joints ; put them into a stew- pan with over half a pint of good broth, add two or three shallots and a bit of thin lemon-peel, pepper and salt to taste, and four teaspoonfuls of Worcester or any other good sauce. Put it on the fire, and let it stew down to half the quantity. Strain the sauce through a fine sieve, dish the partridges with a thin slice of fried bread between the pieces ; pour the sauce over, and add a squeeze of lemon-juice. Salmi of Partridges, Cold. 252. Prepare as above. When done, strain the sauce and leave all to become cold. The sauce can have a little Nelson's gelatine put to it, and be left to set. After it is all nearly cold, arrange the pieces of partridge in a mould, first putting a little of the sauce at the bottom, fill up with the sauce, and ice the whole together. Turn out; serve with savoury or aspic jelly round. Pigeons, Compote of. 253. Truss a dozen plump young pigeons as if for boiling. Lard them down the breasts, or, if preferred, cover their breasts with thin slices of fat bacon. Fry them in hot butter till they are equally and lightly browned all over, then divide them and put them in side by side in a saucepan large enough to contain them. Barely cover them with good gravy, and add half a dozen small onions, a dozen button mushrooms, a glassful of claret, a little salt and cayenne. Let the birds stew gently for half an hour, then add a large tablespoonful of tomato sauce, and stew a few minutes longer. Place the birds on a hot dish, with the sauce around them. Pigeons served with Watercress. 254. Koast a couple of young pigeons in the usual way. Wash and pick two or three bunches of young watercress, and dry them well; to do this put them into a dry cloth, takeDINNER DISHES. 256-] 91 hold of this by the four corners and shake the leaves until they are dry ; put them on a dish, sprinkle a little salt over them, lay the pigeons upon them, and pour brown gravy over. The cresses are sometimes arranged round the dish instead of being placed under the birds. Time, about twenty minutes to roast the pigeons. Mutton, Neck of, Boiled. 255. Shorten the ribs and saw off the chine-bone of a neck of mutton, or from three or four pounds of the best end ; to look well it should not exceed five inches in length. Pare off the fat that is in excess of what may be eaten, and boil slowly in plenty of water, slightly salted; skim carefully and remove the fat from the surface. The meat may be served plainly with caper or parsley sauce, and a garnish of boiled turnips and carrots cut into thin strips placed alternately round the dish. Four middle-sized turnips or three carrots may be boiled with the mutton. Time, a full quarter of an hour to the pound. Mutton, Kebobbed. 256. This favourite Oriental dish can be prepared with our English mutton in a manner far superior to any kebob at Turkish or Egyptian tables. Take a loin of mutton, joint it well at every bone, cut off all superfluous fat, particularly of the kidney, and remove the skin. Prepare a well-proportioned and large seasoning of the following ingredients : Some breadcrumbs, sweet herbs, nutmegs, pepper and salt. Brush the mutton chops over with yolk of egg, and sprinkle the above mixture thickly over them; then tie the chops together in their original order, run a slender spit through them, and roast before a quick fire, basting them well with butter and the drippings from the meat, and throwing more of the season- ing on them from time to time. Serve with the gravy from the meat.FOODS FOR THE FAT. 92 [257- Mutton, Roebuck Fashion. 257. Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung. Remove the fillet, skin, and cut away the fat and bones. Lay the loin in a marinade composed of equal parts of vinegar and water, to a pint of which add a glass of port or claret, a couple of carrots, and two large onions cut into quarters with a clove in each, a dozen peppercorns, two blades of mace, a bunch of herbs and parsley, some bay-leaves, and two tea- spoonfuls of salt. When the mutton has lain in the marinade twenty-four hours turn it, and let it lie until next day ; then drain, and put it into a braising-pan with a little of the pickle, the pan being well lined with bacon. Stew it three hours. Glaze the meat and serve with gravy, adding walnut ketchup and a glass of claret. Indian Fagadtj. 258. Pick the meat from a lobster and a pint of shrimps, cut it into small bits, and season it with an onion and a clove of garlic shred finely, and some cayenne and salt. Prepare some spinach as for boiling, put it into a stewpan in the usual way without water, add the lobster, and stew gently with an onion or two sliced and previously fried in butter, keeping the lid closed for some time. When nearly done, stir the contents over the fire to absorb the moisture, and when quite dry squeeze in some lemon-juice. Curried Sweetbreads. 259. Wash and soak one or two sweetbreads, put tbem into some boiling water with a little salt, an onion, and a bit of parsley; let them simmer for ten minutes (any pale broth is better than water); take them out, leave them to drain and get quite cold, then cut them into slices, about half an inch thick, and fry lightly. Have some good curry, put the slices into this, and stew gently for twenty minutes; cocoanut-milk262.] DINNER DISHES. 93 must be added with the sweetbread, or about ten minutes before serving. Leveret, Roasted. 260. Leverets may be used when hares are out of season. They should be trussed in the same way, and may be stuffed or not (with hare stuffing), according to preference. A leveret is best when larded, but if this cannot be done, cover it either with thin slices of fat bacon or with a thickly buttered piece of white paper. Roast it before a brisk fire, and baste it con- stantly, and a few minutes before it is taken down remove the bacon or paper. Serve it very hot, and send red-currant jelly to table with it as well as the following gravy, a little of which may be put in the dish and the rest in a tureen : Thicken half a pint of stock with a small piece of butter rolled in flour, let it boil for ten minutes, then stir a wineglassful of port into it, boil up once more, and serve. Time, an hour to roast the leveret. Meat Pie a la Don Pedro. 261. This is a kind of ragout put into a tin made expressly for the dish. Take some mutton chops, either from the loin or neck, trim them neatly, and toss them with some chopped parsley, butter, pepper, and salt, etc., in a stewpan over a slow fire. Place the chops with some good brown stock into the tin baking-dish, and add slices of lean ham, and cover with the lid. Omelette with Gravy. 262. Whisk half a dozen fresh eggs thoroughly, and mix with them a small pinch of salt, two pinches of pepper, a tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, half a teaspoonful of chopped onions, and two tablespoonfuls of nicely seasoned gravy. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a hot frying- pan, over a gentle fire, and fry the omelette in the usual way. Serve it on a hot dish with half a pint of good gravy poured round it. Time to fry, six or seven minutes.94 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [263. Onions with Beefsteak, etc. 263. Take two large Spanish onions, remove a thin piece off each end, peel off the outer skins, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Place an ounce of butter or good dripping in a saucepan, let it melt, then put with it a pound of steak, dividing it into pieces a little thinner than for boiling. Brown these in the butter, add a little pepper and salt, the sliced onions, three ounces more of butter, but no liquid ; cover the saucepan closely, and simmer as gently as possible till done. Arrange the steak neatly in the centre of a hot dish, boil up the onion gravy sauce with a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, pour it over the meat, and serve immediately. Chickens or rabbits are sometimes cooked in the same way. Time, about an hour and a half. Fillets de Bceuf aux Truefes. 264. Cut out the inside of a sirloin of beef, beat it well to make it tender, cut it in slices, trimming them neatly; lay them in oil, and let them soak for ten minutes, then fry in butter. Chop up some parsley, lemon thyme, half a shallot, and slice some truffles (that have been previously cleaned and brushed, boiled for twenty minutes in some good stock, quarter of a pint, and half a pint of white wine, pepper and salt), add fifteen drops of vinegar. Lay the herbs in the middle of the dish and the fillets round, and the truffles round the fillets. Boiled Babbits. 265. Select very young ones for boiling; wash and clean well. Fasten the head to the side. Have water boiling and skimmed ready, put in the rabbits, and simmer gently for half to three-quarters of an hour. Boast Babbit. 266. Babbits can be cooked much the same as hares, but they will take hardly an hour to roast. If liked, the270.] 95 DINNER DISHES. backbone can be taken out; it must be carefully done, so as not to break the skin. A rabbit done this way will require much more stuffing put into it; a little thin bacon or slices of ham may be put in before the stuffing. Baste well. Red- currant jelly is also sent in with roast rabbit. (See GRAVY.) Rabbit a la Tartare. 267. Take a rabbit and bone it. Then cut it into pieces, which marinade some hours in parsley, mushrooms, chives and a clove of garlic, all chopped fine, together with pepper, salt and oil; dip each piece of rabbit in breadcrumbs, broil, sprinkling the pieces with the marinade. Serve in a sauce a la Tartare. (See Tartar Sauce.) Rabbit with Tomato Sauce. 268. Cut a rabbit in pieces, fry a light brown slowly (it is best done in a stewpan) in a little butter or lard, add pepper, salt and a small sliced onion. Pour on to it some tomatc sauce, a few spoonfuls of gravy, and stew for half to three- quarters of an hour. Rabbits that have been roasted and are rather underdone can be cooked this way after. Stewed Rabbit. 269. Cut up into neat joints. Take a large flat stewpan, make it hot, put into it a lump of lard about the size of a large walnut, put in the joints of rabbit so that each piece touches the bottom of the pan, add a little sliced onion, and sprinkle over them a little flour; brown both sides. Then pour over it a pint of boiling water or weak stock, season with salt, pepper, and two or three cloves, a bit of allspice, a bunch of parsley, and two bay-leaves. Simmer slowly for one hour and a half, then add a tumbler of claret, and simmer again for one hour. It must not be allowed to do fast, or it will dry up too much. Rabbit, Fricasseed. 270. Cut a young rabbit into neat joints, lay it in a stew- pan, and cover with good stock. Let the liquid boil, then put96 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [271- with it three onions, three carrots, three turnips, and three sticks of celery, all sliced; add a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of saccharin, and stew all gently together until the vegetables are quite soft. Lift the vegetables out, rub them through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Stir the puree over the fire with a tablespoonful of the gravy for two or three minutes to make it quite hot. Put the pieces of rabbit on a dish, cover with the pur6e, and pour the sauce over all. Serve very hot. Time, one hour. .Rabbit, Ragout of. 271. Skin, empty and wash a plump young rabbit, cut it up into ten or twelve pieces, and lay it in a saucepan with a dozen button mushrooms, half a dozen small onions, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Pour over these ingredients as much boiling stock or water as will cover them, and let them simmer very gently until the rabbit is tender. Lift out the rabbit, skim and strain the sauce, and thicken with a tablespoonful of brown thickening. Season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and let it boil till smooth. Add a wine-glassful of chablis, if liked. Put in the pieces of meat. Let them get thoroughly hot without allowing the gravy to boil, arrange them neatly in a dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the rabbit, from an hour and a half to two hours. Chicken a la Marengo. 272. Cut a fine chicken into neat joints, season it with salt and cayenne, and fry it till done in about half a tumblerful of oil or clarified butter. When half cooked, add a clove of garlic, two shallots, and a faggot of sweet herbs. Drain the meat from the fat, and mix with the latter a teaspoonful of flour, and very gradually sufficient good stock to make the sauce of the consistence of thick cream. Stir it till it is thick and smooth. Put the chicken on a hot dish, strain the,75 -j DINNER DISHES. 97 sauce over it, and serve. If liked, mushrooms or fried eggs may be taken to garnish the dish. Time, about twenty-five minutes to fry the chicken. Chicken, Devilled. 273. The best parts of chicken for a devil are the wings and legs. Eemove the skin, score the flesh deeply in several places, and rub in a mixture made of salt, pepper, cayenne, mustard, anchovy and butter. Broil over a clear fire, and serve the fowl hot on a napkin. Chicken, Fried. 274. Take the remains of a cold chicken, cut it into neat pieces, brush a little oil over each piece, and strew over it rather thickly salt and curry powder. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and fry some onions, cut into thin strips about half an°inch long and the eighth of an inch wide ; fry them slowly, and keep them in the pan until they are a dark brown colour and quite dry. They will require a little care, as they must on no account be burnt. Fry the chicken, strew the onions over it, and serve with slices of lemon. Time to fry the chicken, ten minutes. Calf's Liver A la mode. 275. After well washing the calf's liver, soak it for a short time in cold water, then wipe it dry, and insert lardoons of bacon at equal distances in the interior part of the liver ; put it into a stewpan with about two ounces and a half of butter, a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together, half a blade of mace, and a small onion stuck with six cloves, and fry it a nice brown ; then add three carrots, two turnips, an onion cut into wheels, and a wineglassful of brandy with sufficient water to just cover the whole. Baste it frequently with its own gravy, and let it simmer slowly for two hours. When done, take out the liver and put it on a dish garnished with the cut vegetables ; strain and skim the gravy ; add one tablespoonful of Harvey-$S FOODS FOR THE FAT. [276- sauce and a glass of wine ; boil it to the quantity required. Pour it over the liver and serve it up hot. Braised Loin of Lamb. 276. Bone a loin of lamb and line the bottom of a stewpan, just capable of holding it, with a few thin slices of fat bacon ; add to it one bunch of green onions, five or six young carrots, a bunch of savoury herbs, two blades of pounded mace ; cover the meat with a few more slices of bacon, pour in a pint of stock, and simmer very gently for two hours. Take it up, dry it, strain, and reduce the gravy to a glaze, with which glaze the meat, and serve it either on stewed spinach or stewed cucumbers. Curried Beef. 277. Cut up some beef into pieces about one inch square, put a little butter into a stewpan with a little onion sliced, and fry them of a light brown colour; add one dessertspoonful of curry-powder, quarter of a pint of stock or gravy, and stir gently over a brisk fire for about ten minutes. Should this be thought too dry, a spoonful or two more of gravy may be added ; but a good curry should not be very thin. Serve with sippets of well-toasted bread. A nice way of doing up cold beef. To Dress Beef-kidneys. 278. Cut a beef-kidney into neat slices, put them into warm water to soak for two hours, and change the water two or three times; then put them on a clean cloth to diy the water from them, and lay them in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them of a nice brown ; season each side with pepper and salt, put them into a stew-pan, and then gently stew for an hour. Put them round the dish, and the gravy in the middle. Before pouring the gravy in the dish add one tablespoonful of lemon-juice and a very small quantity of saccharin.99 DINNER DISHES. Minced Beep. 279. Put iuto a stew-pan a little butter with an onion chopped fine; add a little gravy and one tablespoonful of strong ale; season with pepper and salt, and stir these in- gredients over the fire until the onion is a rich brown. Cut, but do not chop, some cold beef very fine, add it to the gravy, stir till quite hot and serve; garnish with sippets of well- toasted bread. Be careful in not allowing the gravy to boil after the meat is added, as it would render it hard and tough. To Roast Venison. 280. Take great care the meat is well-hung. Take the skin from the top part, put butter and salt over the fat, then make a paste of flour and water, lay it on, and fasten it by four or five sheets of paper, sewn together and skewered on firmly. Roast it gently and baste it. About half an hour before it is done take off the paper and paste, and let it colour gradually to a pale brown, but be most careful it does not burn. Serve with a good gravy round, and with warmed red currant jelly. A little wine can be added to the gravy. Hashed Venison. 281. Take a pint of very good brown gravy, mix with it some of the sauce Tartare. Cut the venison in small, thin slices of ecpial size, put them into a saucepan, cover with the sauce, and let it stand from fifteen to twenty minutes; put the pan on the fire, let it get gradually warm till it gets hot quite through. It must on no account boil, but it must be very hot when sent to table. Norman Hash. 282. Take two ounces of butter, warm it, add half an onion, a sprig of herbs, and a good pint of stock ; boil well and strain; slice mutton very thin and free from skin ; put the meat into the sauce, stew very gently for three-quarters of an hour, take out the herbs. Add half a glass of sherry before serving. 7—2FOODS FOR THE FAT. [283. 100 Beef can also be used for this hash, but will require rather longer to stew. Cooked meat is best for this. To Stew Mutton Cutlets (Plain). 283. These can be taken from either a loin or neck of mutton; free them from skin and fat. Fry slightly, either plain or cover with egg and breadcrumbs. Have a good cold gravy ready; put in your cutlets, cover your pan, and let them stew gently for an hour. Add a few button mushrooms to the gravy before serving. Calf's Head Stewed with Oysters. 284. Soak half a small calf's head (without the skin) for one hour in cold water with a teacupful of vinegar in it. Well wash it in two or three waters, put it into a stewpan with two onions, a bay-leaf, a laurel-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram, two sage leaves, four sprigs of parsley, two cloves, four allspice, six black peppercorns, half a carrot, and a pint and a half of cold water. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer gently for an hour and a half, skimming constantly. Take out the head, strain the liquor, add to it one tablespoonful of baked flour and the strained liquor of three dozen oysters ; boil up, put the head in again and continue to simmer for three quarters of an hour longer ; add three dozen oysters; let it just simmer again and serve. It must not boil after the oysters are added. Calf's Head Ragout. 285 Wash half a calf's head thoroughly, and boil it for about three hours ; take it up, drain it, and score the outside skin m diamonds. Brush it over with well-beaten egg, and strew over that a few finely-grated breadcrumbs, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped thyme, a teaspoon- ful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of cayenne. Put it in a hot oven or place it before the fire to brown, and before sending2S6] VEGETABLES. iQI it to table squeeze over it the juice of a large lemon, and a little oiled butter poured over it. Lamb Chops with Cucumber Sauce. 286. Dip the chops in beaten egg and brown breadcrumbs, and fry them. When nicely browned, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish and put in the centre a sauce prepared, as follows: Peel a young fresh cucumber, and cut it into dice ■ strew a little pepper and salt over these. Melt three or four ounces of butter in a saucepan, put in the cucumber, cover it closely and place it on a moderate, fire, shaking the pan frequently to prevent sticking. "When it is steamed until the pieces of cucumber are quite tender but unbroken, serve them in the centre of the dish. It will take about ten minutes to fry the chops, and about twenty minutes to stew the cucumber. VEGETABLES. The following vegetables are suitable for corpulent people during the respective months given. January. Asparagus (forced), Jerusalem artichokes, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbages, cardoons, celery, chervil, cresses, endive, lettuces, savoys, Scotch kale, spinach, turnips, herbs. February. Jerusalem artichokes, asparagus (forced), broccoli, brussels sprouts, beans (French or kidney), cabbages, celery, cardoons, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, lettuces, savoys, spinach, seakale, turnips, various herbs. March. Artichokes (French), asparagus (forced), broccoli, Brussels sprouts, beans (forced), cabbages, celery, [chervil, cresses, cucumber (forced), endive, kidney beans, lettuces, radishesFOODS FOR THE FAT. 102 (early), savoys, seakale, spinach, turnips, turnip-tops, various herbs. April. Artichokes (French), asparagus, beetroot, beans (French and kidney, forced), broccoli, celery, chervil, cucumbers (forced), lettuce, cabbages, radishes, young onions, small salad, seakale, spinach, sprouts, turnip-tops, various herbs. May. Artichokes (French), asparagus, beans, cabbages, chervil, cucumbers, cauliflower, cresses, lettuces, peas, radishes, salad, seakale, spinach, turnip-tops, and various herbs. June. Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbages, chervil, cucumbers, cauliflower, endive, lettuces, onions, peas, radishes, small salad, seakale, sorrel, spinach, turnips, various herbs. July. Artichokes, beans, cabbages, cauliflowers, cucumbers, cresses, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, peas, radishes, red cabbages, small salads, salsify, seakale, sorrel, spinach, sprouts, turnips, vegetable marrows, various herbs. August. Artichokes, beans, cabbages, cauliflowers, cucumbers, cresses, shallots, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, peas, radishes, red cabbages, seakale, small salads, salsify, sprouts, turnips, vegetable marrows, and various herbs. September. Artichokes, Jerusalem artichokes, beans, cabbage, sprouts, cauliflower, celery, carrots, endive, shallots, lettuces, leeks, mush- rooms, onions, peas, salads, seakale, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows, various herbs.103 VEGETABLES. 2S8.] October. Artichokes, Jerusalem artichokes, beets, broccoli, cabbages, cauliflower, celery, cucumbers, endive, shallots, lettuces, leeks, mushrooms, onions, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows, various herbs. November. Jerusalem artichokes, broccoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, cardoons, eudive, leeks, onions, salad, spinach, sprouts, Scotch kale, various herbs. December. Jerusalem artichokes, beetroot, broccoli, cabbages, carrots, cardoons, celery, leeks, onions, spinach (winter), Scotch kale, turnips. Cabbage, Boiled. 287. Cut off the stalk, remove the faded and outer leaves, and halve, or, if large, quarter the cabbages. Wash them thoroughly and lay them for a few minutes in water, to which a tablespoonful of vinegar has been added, to draw out any insects that may be lodging under the leaves. Drain them in a colander. Have ready a large pan of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt and a small piece of soda in it, and let the cabbages boil quickly till tender, leaving the saucepan un- covered. Take them up as soon as they are done, drain them thoroughly and serve. Time to boil young summer cabbages, from ten to fifteen minutes; large cabbages, half an hour or more. Savoy Cabbage. 288. The savoy is a large, close-hearted cabbage, seasonable in winter. It may be dressed according to the instructions already given for boiling cabbage?. A savoy cabbage will need to boil thirty minutes or more, according to size.FOODS FOR THE FAT. 104 [289- Broccoli, Boiled. 289. Trim off all leaves that are not required or liked, and place the broccoli in a pan of salted water to kill any insects, etc., that may have taken shelter under the stalks. Wash them well and put them into an uncovered saucepan of boil- ing water, with a large tablespoonful of salt to every half gallon of water. Keep them boiling till done, which will be in about ten or fifteen minutes, according to size. Drain them directly they are done, or they will lose colour and become sodden. Scotch Kale. 290. Like all other greens, Scotch kale should be procured as fresh as possible. Cut away the outer and decayed leaves and the stalks, wash the kale with scrupulous care, and drain it. Put it into boiling water slightly salted, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Take it up, drain it thoroughly, and serve very hot. Whilst the kale is boiling, the saucepan should be left uncovered. Time to boil, twenty minutes Seakale, Boiled. 291. When fresh and delicately cooked, seakale resembles, and will serve as a substitute for, asparagus. Carefully wash and brush the seakale to remove the sand and grit, cut out the black part of the roots and tie the shoots up in small bundles, and put it into a stewpan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt; let it boil for about twenty minutes, or until tender. Spinach, Boiled. 292. Take two pailfuls of spinach, young and freshly- gathered, pick away the stalks, wash the leaves in several waters, lift them out with the hands that the sand or grit may remain at the bottom, and drain them on a sieve. Put them into a saucepan with a good sprinkling of salt and the water29S.] VEGETABLES. i°5 which clings to the leaves, and let them boil until tender. Take the spinach up, drain it, and press it well; chop it unall, and put it into a clean saucepan with a little pepper and salt and a slice of fresh butter; stir it well for five minutes. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with fried sippets. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Lettuce, Stewed. 293. Take four good-sized lettuces, trim away the outer leaves and the bitter stalks, wash the lettuces carefully, and boil them in plenty of salted water until they are tender. Lift them into a colander, and squeeze the water from them ; chop them slightly, and put them into a clean saucepan with a little pepper and salt and a small piece of butter. Dredge a little flour on them, pour over them three tablespoonfuls of good gravy, and simmer gently for three quarters of an hour, stirring all the time. Squeeze a dessertspoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice upon them, and serve as hot as possible. Mushrooms, Grilled. 294. Cut the stalks, peel, and score lightly the underside of large mushroom flaps, which should be firm and fresh-gathered ; season them with pepper and salt, and steep them in a marinade of oil or melted butter. If quite sound they may be laid on a gridiron over a slow even fire, and grilled on both sides, but they are best done in the oven if at all bruised. Serve on a hot dish, with a piece of butter on each mushroom and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Time, about twelve minutes to grill; five minutes to steep in marinade. Celery, Stewed. 295. Wash four heads of celery very clean, trim them neatly, cutting off the leaves and tops; cut them into three-inch lengths and tie them in small bundles, and parboil them in sufficient salt and water to cover them. Drain, and stew them until tender in some stock. Brown two ounces of butterIQ6 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [2g6. with a teaspoonful of flour in a saucepan, dilute it with the stock in which the celery was boiled, lay the celery in it, let it boil for ten minutes more, and serve as hot as possible. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Cardoons, Boiled. 296. Choose a few heads of sound white cardoons. Cut them into pieces about six inches long, remove the prickles, and blanch them in boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Scrape off the skin, and tie them in bundles. Cover them with nicely-flavoured stock, and boil till tender. Turnips, Boiled. 297. Turnips should only be served whole when they are very young. When they have reached any size they should be mashed. Pare the turnips and wash them; if very young a little of the green top may be left on; if very large they should be divided into halves, or even quarters. Throw them into slightly salted water, and let them boil gently till tender. Drain and serve them. Time to boil old turnips, three- quarters of an hour to an hour and a half; young turnips, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Artichokes, Boiled. 298. Gather the artichokes two or three days before they are required for use. Cut off the stems, pull out the strings, and wash them in two or three waters, that no insects may be in them. Have a large saucepan of boiling water, with two tablespoonfuls of salt and a piece of soda the size of a sixpence to every gallon of water, put the artichokes in with the tops downwards, and let them boil quickly until tender. About half an hour or three - quarters will boil them, but that can be ascertained by pulling out one of the leaves (if it comes out easily they are done), or by trying them with a fork. Take them out and lay them upside down to drain. Serve them on a napkin.3o2.] VEGETABLES. 107 Asparagus, Boiled. 299. Scrape very clean all the white part of the stalks from the asparagus, and throw them into cold spring water, tie them up in bundles, cut the root ends even, and put them in a piece of muslin to preserve the tops. Have a wide stewpan of spring water, with one tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water, and when it boils lay in the asparagus and boil it quickly for fifteen minutes, or until it is tender. Lay them in the dish with the white ends outwards and the points meeting in the centre. To Boil French Beans. 300. Take as many French beans as you may require, cut off the tops and bottoms, and remove the strings from each side ; then divide each bean into three or four pieces, cutting them lengthways, and as they are cut put them into cold water with a little salt. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drain the beans from the cold water, and put them in. Boil them quickly with the saucepan uncovered, and as soon as they are done drain them in a colander. Dish, and serve them with a small piece of butter stirred into them. Broad Beans, Stewed. 301. Have ready a good rich brown gravy. Cut up some small onions, chives, and parsley ; throw them into the gravy, and simmer for ten minutes before the beans are put in. Sprinkle a quart of beans with two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, and a small quantity of saccharin; mix together, and put them into the gravy. Stir the beans gently over a slow fire till the gravy is absorbed by them. In ten minutes serve them up. Cauliflowers, Boiled. 302. Make choice of some cauliflowers that are close and white, pick off all the decayed leaves, and cut the stalk off108 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [303- flat at the bottom; then put them with the heads downwards in strong salt and water for an hour, to draw out all the insects. Drain them in a colander, and put them into a sauce- pan with plenty of fast boiling water; keep the pan un- covered, and boil them quickly until tender, which will be from twelve to fifteen minutes, or longer if they are very . large. Skim the water clean, and when done take them up with a slice and serve. Vegetable Marrows, Boiled. 303. Peel the marrows, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water and salt (one tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water). When tender, take them out; cut them into quarters if large ; if not, halve them. Serve them in a vegetable dish. Vegetable Marrow in Gravy. 304. Boil a large marrow in the usual way. When three- parts cooked, take it up, cut it into squares, place these in a saucepan, and pour over them as much thick brown gravy as will cover them. Let them heat gently. Serve in a vegetable dish with the gravy poured round them. Green Peas, Boiled. 305. Shell half a peck of green peas, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt and a sprig or two of mint; let them boil about half an hour with the pan closely covered. When tender, drain them through a colander, and put them in a dish with a bit of butter stirred into them. Serve them up very hot. Leeks, Boiled. 306. Leeks are generally used in soups, etc. If served alone, take them when very young, trim off the root, the outer leaves and the green ends, and cut the stalks into six- inch lengths. Tie them in bundles, put them into boiling-j VEGETABLES. I09 water, with a dessertspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar, and let them boil until quite tender. Drain them and serve. Brussels Sprouts. 307 Pick, trim, and wash a number of sprouts ; put them into plenty of fast boiling water. The sudden immersion of the vegetables will check the boiling for some little time, but they must be brought to a boil as quickly as possible that they may not lose their green colour; add a tablespoonful of salt, keep the saucepan uncovered, and boil very fast for fifteen minutes. Lose no time in draining them when sufficiently done. Tomatoes. 308. Cut in slices, fry in butter just brown; add one tablespoonful of white vinegar, chili, a few drops of tarragon, one saltspoon of salt, and a little saccharin. Simmer twenty minutes. Broiled Mushrooms. 309. Skin the mushrooms and cut off the stalks; put them in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Serve on toast thinly buttered. Mashed Turnips. 310. Take six moderate-sized turnips, pare them neatly, and put them into cold water to blanch for half an hour ; then put them into boiling water, and boil about half an hour; drain and press out all the water, and rub the turnips through a wire sieve; put them into a stewpan with half a gill of thick cream and a saltspoonf ul of salt j stir till boiling hot, then serve. Boiled Onions. 311. Peel the onions, and boil them in salt and water for ten minutes ; throw them into cold water for half an hour,"° FOODS FOR THE FAT. [312- then put them into a saucepan, and well cover them with cold water, and let them boil gently for an hour. Drain, and serve with or without dissolved butter over them. Portugal Onions, Stewed. 312. Peel the onions, and place them in a stewpan; for each onion knead together half an ounce of butter and a little saccharin ; put it on the onions, and let them slowly become slightly browned. Then pour over each a teaspoonful of tomato sauce and a tablespoonful of gravy or stock: simmer gently for three hours, basting the onions frequently with the gravy. Serve very hot. Portugal Onions, Eoasted. 313. Peel the onions and place them in a Dutch oven before a good fire, baste them frequently with dissolved butter (an ounce for each), and roast for an hour and a half. Serve with or without their own sauce. Portugal Onions, Curried. 314. Peel and wash the onions, put them into a saucepan with plenty of water and a little salt. Boil (uncovered) till tender ; then press out the water and chop; put them into an enamelled saucepan with a little butter and a little curry powder. Simmer for five minutes and serve. Ragout op Celery. 315. Wash well, and boil half an hour. Take out the celery, put it into cold water for a quarter of an hour, then strain well. Stew in good gravy with a little mushroom ketchup, salt, and pepper. Serve hot. A Mixed Vegetable. 316. Peel an onion, slice and fry in butter, then stew in a little broth till tender; have some turnips, carrots, and celery boiled, and cut in neat pieces. Put them to the onion, with salt, pepper, and a little mustard (half a teaspoonful of111 VEGETABLES. French mustard is the best for this. Simmer till hot, and serve. Fried Cabbage. 317. Boil the cabbage in two waters and skim well, drain very well, chop or slice it, fry in butter or good dripping, with pepper and salt. Serve on a hot dish with a few slices of fried beef or ham over it. Spinach with Cream. 318. Boil and drain two pounds of spinach in the usual way. Press it between two plates to free it thoroughly from moisture, and heat it in a clean saucepan with a little pepper and salt and a small lump of butter. When it is dry, add very gradually two tablespoonfuls of boiling cream, and simmer it gently for five minutes. Serve very hot. Spinach with Gravy. 319. Prepare the spinach in the usual way as in the fore- going recipe. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a sauce- pan, put in the spinach and stir it till the butter has dried away. Add a teaspoonful of salt, a very little saccharin and as much grated nutmeg as will cover a sixpence. Stir it again, and moisten with two tablespoonfuls of highly-seasoned veal broth and a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Stir it over the fire till the liquid is absorbed, and serve very hot. Cabbage, Creamed. 320. Thoroughly cleanse two young cabbages and boil them until quite soft. Take them out, drain and press them between two hot plates until they are dry, when they may be slightly chopped. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, add pepper and salt, then put in the cabbage and turn it about for two or three minutes. When it is thoroughly heated, mix with it very gradually a cupful of cream.FOODS FOR THE FAT. 112 Artichokes, Fried. 321. Pare some artichokes, and boil them in salt and water for about a quarter of an hour. Drain and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, dip them into the white of an egg well beaten, and afterwards strew finely-grated bread on them. Fry in boiling oil or lard till they are nicely browned, and serve piled high on a dish. Artichokes Stewed in Gravy. 322. Strip off the leaves from the artichokes, remove the chokes, and soak them in lukewarm water for three hours, changing the water three or four times. Place them in a saucepan with enough gravy to cover them, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, the juice of a lemon, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Let them stew gently until tender, then serve with the sauce poured over them, and as hot as possible. Artichokes, Mashed. 323. Wash and pare some artichokes ; boil them in salt and water until quite tender, then drain and press the water thoroughly from them. Put them into a saucepan, and beat to a pulp, adding salt, pepper, and a little cream. Serve very hot. Stewed Eed Cabbage. 324. Cut a cabbage in shreds, wash it well in salt and water, put it into a stewpan without draining it much, add pepper and a little broth, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a small lump of butter. Stew till tender. Stewed Cucumbers. 325. Peel and core the cucumbers, cut them into neat pieces, fry in a little butter, put the fried pieces into a stew- pan with a little good gravy, pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Stew gently till tender.VEGETABLES. ii3 330.] Haricots Verts. 326. Cut French beans very thin (they should be young and tender), boil and drain well; add salt, pepper, a little good gravy, a bit of butter; shake well over the fire. Take them oft' the fire, and stir-in the beaten yolk of an egg and a little lemon-juice. Serve very hot. Curried Tomatoes. 327. Cut the tomatoes in slices; either bake or fry them lightly. Grate an apple, chop a bit of onion small, fry in hot butter till quite tender, add two large teaspoonfuls of curry powder, put in a few spoonfuls of good thick gravy, simmer a few minutes, add the tomatoes with a very little lemon-juice; let it be rather thick. Serve hot. Seakale, Stewed. 328. Wash the seakale, and tie it in bundles. Boil it in salted water for a quarter of an hour, then drain it, and put it into a saucepan with as much brown gravy as will cover it; stew gently till tender. Lay it in a hot dish, stir a little lemon-juice into the sauce and pour it over. Cauliflower with Sauce. 329. Boil two large white cauliflowers in a little salt and water until tender, then cut off the stalks and press them head downwards into a hot basin. Turn them into a tureen, and pour round them a little tomato or piquante sauce. Vegetable Marrows, Fried. 330. Boil the marrows in the ordinary way till they are tender but quite firm. Let them get cold, and cut them into slices. Brush them over with egg, dip in finely-grated bread- crumbs, and fry till they arc lightly browned. 8ii4 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [331-4. Vegetable Marrows, Mashed. 331. Boil two good-sized vegetable marrows in a little salt and water till tender. Take them up, drain them, turn them into a bowl and mash them with a wooden spoon. Heat them in a saucepan with a piece of melted butter the size of a walnut, and a little pepper and salt. Marrows dressed thus are excellent, served piled high in the centre of a dish of cutlets. Tomatoes, Baked. 332. Slice six or eight ripe tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle breadcrumbs lightly over them; divide about two ounces of fresh butter into little pieces, and place these here and there upon them. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish as an accompaniment to roast meat of all kinds. Stewed Mushrooms. 333. Take off the skin and stems, wash the mushrooms quickly, place them in a stewpan (an earthen one is best) with two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of water, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer for twenty minutes, throw in half a gill of cream, and serve very hot. Brussels Sprouts, Saute. 334. Wash and drain one pound of sprouts ; put them into boiling salt and water for a quarter of an hour. When done, dry them on a clean cloth ; dissolve half an ounce of butter in a pan, and shake the sprouts in it over the fire for a minute or two; season them with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and serve very hot. Sprouts about the size of a walnut have the most delicate flavour.SACCHARIN. "5 SACCHAEIN. The invention of the above substitute for sugar is a boon to those who suffer from corpulency or skin disease, as the use of sugar in both cases is injurious, and this article, for which we are indebted to Dr. Fahlberg, is a perfect substitute. Experiments have been made of the most exhaustive nature, that prove it to be perfectly harmless, and Dr. Pavy and others give the following as the result of their investigation : (1) That saccharin is quite innocuous when taken in ordinary dietary. (2) Saccharin does not interfere with or impede the diges- tive processes when taken in any ordinary quantity. The Lancet says its continued use is quite harmless. This being so, sugar—one of the great dietetic articles so constantly used in food, and the greatest of all fattening sub- stances—may be completely cast aside, as saccharin is a perfect substitute, and quite as convenient to use. It is sold in a soluble powder and in the form of a tabloid, containing half a grain, this being equal to about half an ounce of sugar. For stewed fruits, jellies, and all culinary purposes it will be found that two tabloids are equal to quite one ounce of sugar. They are soluble in hot or cold water. One tabloid, or half a grain of the powder, is sufficient for a large cup of tea or coffee. The tabloids are sold at about one shilling a hundred. The best-known makers are Burroughs, Wellcome and Co., Snow Hill Buildings, London, and they may be had of all grocers and chemists. The recipes for jellies, beverages, etc., given in this book have been tried by the author, and he can speak of them as in every way equal to those containing sugar. If it is desirable to make a Jinn jelly, a little more isinglass or gelatine should be used than is given in the recipe. Sugar, as is well known, is the most fattening article in the daily dietary, and with some people the most bilious, so that it is equally a boon to those who are troubled with an inactive liver. This article 8—2116 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [335. has a great future before it, and should entirely take the place of sugar in the dietary of those disposed to corpulency. By its aid stewed fruits, tea, coffee, and other daily requisites are made palatable. FEUITS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS, SWEETENED WITH SACCHARIN. Lemon Cream. 335. Pare into a pint of water the peel of three large lemons ; let it stand four or five hours ; then take them out, and put to the water the juice of four lemons and four grains of saccharin, or eight tabloids dissolved in a little boiling water. Beat the whites of six eggs, and mix it altogether j strain it through a lawn sieve, set it over a slow fire, stir it one way until as thick as good cream, then take it off the fire, and stir it until cold, and put it into a glass dish. Orange cream may be made in the same way, adding the yolks of three eggs. Lemon Cream without Cream. 336. Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with the peel of three small lemons cut thin, four grains of saccharin or eight tabloids, three-quarters of an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste, and about two ounces of gelatine or isinglass. Boil the whole over a moderate fire for eight or nine minutes, until the gelatine or isinglass is thoroughly dissolved; then strain it through a fine sieve into a jug with a lip to it, stir in the yolks of seven well- beaten eggs, and pour the mixture from one jug to another until barely cold ; then add the strained juice of three small lemons, stir it quickly together, and pour it into an oiled mould.FRUITS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. 117 Kaspberry Cream without Cream. 337. Mix with a quarter of a pound of raspberries three grains of saccharin or six tabloids, and the whites of four eggs. All to be beaten together for one hour, and then put in lumps in a glass dish. Cale's-foot Jelly. 338. Cut two calves' feet in small pieces after they have been well cleaned and the hair taken off. Stew them very gentlj in two quarts of water till it is reduced to one quart. When cold, take off the fat and remove the jelly from the sedi- ment. Put it into a saucepan with six grains of saccharin or twelve tabloids, a pint of white wine, a wineglass of brandy in it, the peel of four lemons finely chopped, the whites of four eggs well-beaten, and their shells broken. Put the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil a quarter of an hour after it rises to a head ; then cover it close, and let it stand about half an hour j after which, pour it through a jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Pour the jelly through and through until clear, then put it into a mould. Gooseberry Fool. 339. Put two quarts of gooseberries into a stewpan with a quart of water; when they begin to turn yellow and swell, drain the water from them and press them with the back of a spoon through a colander; sweeten them with saccharin to your taste, and set them to cool. Put two quarts of milk over the fire, beaten up with the yolks of four eggs and a little grated nutmeg; stir it over the fire and then gradually into the cold gooseberries; let it stand until cold, and serve it. The eggs may be left out, and milk only may be used. Half this quantity makes a good dishful./ "8/ 1 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [34o- Stewed Prunks. 340. Take one pound of prunes, wash them in cold water, then put them into a stewpan with one quart of water, two grains of saccharin and two or three drops of cochineal ; then gradually bring to the boil, and stew gently for an hour. Serve when cold. Lemon Jelly. 341. Soak one and a half ounces of gelatine in half a pint of water for half an hour. Put into a saucepan one pint and a half of water with the peel of one lemon and also the juice. Let it boil for a few minutes and then pour it on the gelatine; sweeten with three grains of saccharin, return it all to the saucepan, and stir quickly into it the white and shell of one egg well-beaten. Let it gradually come to the boil, and boil for a minute; then stand it away from the fire for two minutes, skim well and strain through a jelly-bag until clear, and then add one wineglass of brandy. When nearly cold, pour into a jelly-mould to set. Claret Jelly. 342. Take one bottle of claret, the juice and rind of a lemon, one small pot of red-currant jelly, six grains of saccharin, one and a half ounces of isinglass, and one wineglass of brandy. Boil all together for five minutes ; strain into a mould and let it get cold; serve with cream sauce—recipe for which as follows : Half a pint of cream, sweetened, and flavoured with vanilla and slightly whisked, poured round the jelly. Strawberry Jelly. 343. Take a quart of fine ripe strawberries, and pour over them a pint of water that has boiled for twenty minutes, with eight grains of saccharin. The next day drain off the syrup from the strawberries without bruising them, and, to increase the fruity flavour, add a little lemon-juice. Clarify two ounces and a half of isinglass in a pint of water,347.] FRUITS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. ■■ U9 and let it stand till nearly cold ; then mix it with the fruit-juice and pour into moulds. Orange Jelly. 344. To the juice of eight fine sweet oranges and four Seville, well Strained, add an ounce and a half of isinglass dissolved in boiling water j sweeten with four grains of saccha- rin, and stir it gently over the Ere, but do not let it bod. Pour the jelly into moulds when nearly cold, the moulds having been previously filled with cold water. Currant and Raspberry Jelly. 345. Bruise in a jar two pounds of red and one pound of white currants with a pint of red raspberries; place the jar in boiling water to extract the juice. Boil three-quarters of a pint of water, two ounces of isinglass, and twelve grains of saccharin. Allow both the fruit-juice, when strained, and the sweetened isinglass to cool; then mix equal quantities, pour into shapes, and place the jelly in ice. Bum Jelly. 346. Dissolve twelve grains of saccharin in a pint of boiling water ; mix with this two ounces of clarified isinglass or gela- tine, and add the juice of a lemon and a wineglassful of fine old Jamaica rum. Pour the jelly into a damp mould, set it in ice or in a cool place till it is stiff, then turn it out and serve. Stewed Apples. 347. Take three or four very good American apples ; peel and core carefully; cut into slices. Put the slices into a sauce- pan with a tablespoonful of water ; boil till quite tender, then beat them quite smooth with a fork, adding saccharin and lemon-juice to taste. Not the least lump or bit of core should be left.120 FOODS FOR THE FAT. [348- Ked Khubarb. 348. Cut one pound of rhubarb one inch long; put into a pan with two tablespoonfuls of water and three grains of saccharin; stir on a slow fire till tender. Comp6te of Cherries. 349. Choose large, ripe, light-coloured cherries, wipe them, and leave on them about an inch of stalk, making all uniform. Put eight grains of saccharin into a saucepan with a breakfast- cupful of water, and let it boil for a minute; then put into it a pound and a half of the cherries, and simmer them for three minutes. Dish them when cold with the stalks uppermost. A tablespoonful of brandy may be added if liked. Snow Pudding. 350. Put into half a pint of cold water half a packet of gelatine. Let it stand one hour; then add one pint of boiling- water, eight grains of saccharin, and the juice of two lemons. Stir and strain, and let it stand all night; beat very stiff the whites of two eggs, and beat well into the mixture; pour into a mould. Plain Sweet Omelette. 351. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add the yolks, beat again till quite smooth; put in a tablespoonful of cream, a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and a little saccharin; put half an ounce of butter into the omelette-pan, let it just boil, and pour in the omelette; shake it till it is even all over the pan. When nicely browned on the under side, pass a red-hot salamander over the top just to set it, double up, and slide on to a hot dish, and serve at once. This ome- lette may be made quite plain, with only a little salt if not liked sweet. It is very light if properly made. Custard. 352. Have the yolk of one fresh egg, beat it a little and pour over it, mixing the two well, a teacupful of thin cream ;355-] FRUITS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. 121 add a little saccharin and essence of vanilla to taste ; stir over the fire in a small saucepan till it thickens, hut keep it just off the boil. A teaspoonful of brandy or rum improves it, but it must not be added when very hot. This is nice to eat with stewed fruit. Nourishing Cream. 353. Beat the yolks of two eggs j add a little saccharin, the rind, lightly grated, and strained juice of half a lemon or orange. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, adding to them, while beating, a little saccharin. Put the jar containing the yolks in a pot of boiling water ; cook gently, stirring all the time ; when it begins to thicken, stir in the whites of the eggs until well mixed ; remove it from the fire, and let it cool. Serve in custard-glasses. Rhubarb Mould. 354. One quart of red rhubarb cut in pieces, put into a saucepan with a lid; let it boil till it is a pulp. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in cold water, pour on to it just enough boil- ing water to dissolve it, add it to the rhubarb with sixteen grains of saccharin ; let it boil fifteen minutes; add a few drops of essence of lemon, butter a mould, and pour in the rhubarb. Next day dip the mould in hot water, and turn the rhubarb out on a glass dish. Apple Snow. 355. Reduce half-a-dozen apples to a pulp, press them through a sieve, sweeten with saccharin, and flavour them. Take the whites of six eggs, whisk them for some minutes with a little saccharin. Beat the pulp to a froth, then mix the two together, and whisk them until they look like stiff snow. Pile high in rough pieces on a glass dish, stick a sprig of myrtle in the middle, and garnish with small pieces of bright-coloured jelly.[356- 122 FOODS FOR THE FA T. Apple Shape. 356. Melt a heaped tablespoonful of isinglass in a little water. Take half a pint of nicely flavoured apple-pulp, mix it well with half a pint of cream, then add the dissolved isinglass, and sweeten with saccharin to taste. Let it stand till nearly cold; add a glass of wine or a tablespoonful of brandy, pour into a buttered mould, and keep it in a cool place until the next day. Rhubarb Fool. 357. Wash and, if necessary, peel the rhubarb and cut it up into small pieces. Put as much as is to be used into a jar which has a closely-fitting lid, with as much saccharin as will be required to sweeten it. Set this jar in a saucepan of boil- ing water, and keep it boiling until the fruit is quite soft. Rub it through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, and mix with the pulp as much cream as will make it of the consistency of gruel. Taste it, and, if not sufficiently sweet, add a little more saccharin. Serve cold in a glass dish. Plums, Comp6te of. 358. Boil half a pint of water with ten grains of saccharin ; put in a pound of plums, and let them simmer until they are tender, without being broken, if possible. Lift them out, place them on a compote dish, and pour the syrup over them. Cream may be eaten with them. Moulded Pears. 359. Peel and cut the pears into quarters ; put them into a jar, with one pint of water, eight cloves, a small piece of cinna- mon, and sweeten the whole nicely with saccharin ; cover down the top of the jar, and bake the pears in a gentle oven until perfectly tender, but do not allow them to break. When done, lay the pears in a plain mould, which should be well wetted, and boil half a pint of the liquor the pears were baked in with a quarter of a pint of raisin wine, a strip of lemon-peel, the juice363.] FRUITS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. 123 of half a lemon, and one ounce of gelatine ; let these in- gredients boil quickly for five minutes, then strain the liquid warm over the pears, put the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is firm turn it out on a glass dish. Damsons, Comp6te or. 360. Take eight grains of saccharin and one pint of water; let it simmer on the fire until the saccharin is dissolved, then throw in the white of an egg, and take off the scum as it rises. When the syrup has boiled fifteen minutes drop into it, one by one, a quart of sound damsons, and simmer until soft without breaking them. Remove them from the syrup, and boil it again ; let it cool, and pour it over the damsons, which should have been previously arranged in a glass dish. A glass of whipped cream is a nice accompaniment to this dish. Apricots, Comp6te of. 361. Take one dozen large, sound apricots ; halve them, remove the stones, and blanch the kernels. Put twelve grains of saccharin with a pint and a half of water. Let it boil; then put in the apricots, and let them simmer very gently for a few minutes. Take them out, drain them, and arrange them in a dish. When the syrup is cold, pour it over the fruit; put half a kernel upon each piece of apricot. BEVERAGES. Lemonade. 362. Put the juice of a lemon to a pint of water in which one grain of saccharin has been dissolved ; then add the white of an egg and froth up. It may be iced. Tamarind Water. 363. Boil two ounces of tamarinds with a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins in three pints of water for an hour ; strain it, and when cold it is fit for use.FOODS FOR THE FAT. 124 [364- Orange Gin. 364. To one gallon of the strongest gin put the rinds, pared very thin, of eighteen Seville oranges and sixteen grains of saccharin. Let the gin remain on the peel in a stone jar or bottle for a month (the bottle mast be kept air-tight), then bottle for use. If required it will be fit for use at once. Cherry Brandy. 365. Fill wide-mouthed bottles with good Morella cherries nearly full; prick the cherries first in three or four places with a fine needle; put into each bottle four grains of saccharin, fill up with brandjr. Cork, and cover with bladder very tight. Best kept for a year. Eggs and Brandy. 366. Beat up two eggs to a froth in two ounces of cold spring water ; add a little saccharin and pour in one ounce of brand}', stirring all the time. Cream of Tartar. (A Cooling Drink.) 367. Put half an ounce of cream of tartar, the juice of one lemon, and one grain of saccharin into a jug, and pour over a quart of boiling water. Cover till cold. Egg and Chablis. 368. Beat up with a fork an egg till it froths; add a very small quantity of saccharin, and two tablespoonfuls of water; mix well, pour in a wineglassful of chablis, and serve before it gets flat. An American Drink. 369. Put the juice of a lemon to a pint of water in which one grain of saccharin has been dissolved ; then add the white of an egg and froth up. It may be iced. Claret Cur 370. Take one bottle of claret, one bottle of soda-water, about half a pound of pounded ice, four grains of saccharin, a374-] BEVERAGES. I2S little grated nutmeg, one liqueur-glass of maraschino, and a sprig of green borage. Put all these ingredients into a silver cup, regulating the proportion of ice by the state of the weather j if very warm a larger quantity would be necessary. Hand the cup round with a clean napkin passed through one of the handles, that the edge of the cup may be wiped after each guest has partaken of the contents thereof. Egg Wine. 371. Well beat a nice new-laid egg with a little water, and then pour over it a glass of white wine made very hot, with half a tumbler of water and a little saccharin. Stir it all the time until well mixed together; then set it over the fire until it thickens and is very hot, without coming to a boil. It must be stirred one way all the time, and when done poured into a glass, and served with a thin slice of toasted bread cut into Fong slices and placed on a plate crossed over each other. A little grated nutmeg may be added if the flavour is liked. Lemonade. 372. Grate the peel of six lemons; pour a quart of boiling water on it. Let it stand some time j then add the juice of the lemous (take care not to let the lemon pips fall into the liquid), sweeten it with one or two grains of saccharin, and run it through a jelly-bag. Wine Caudle. 373. Beat with a whisk the white of one egg, and the yolks of eight; stir into it a bottle of white wine, a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, and eight grains of saccharin. Set the mixture on the fire and keep stirring it ; remove it as soon as it boils. Pour the caudle into a bowl or small glasses. For Summer Drinks. 374. One pound of red currants bruised with some rasp- berries, eight grains of saccharin, added to a gallon of cold water, well stirred, allowed to settle, and bottle.FOODS FOR THE FAT. 126 [375- Apple Water. 375. Pare and core three or four large apples, put them into a quart jug with two grains of saccharin, a few strips of very thin lemon-peel, the strained juice of half a lemon. Fill the jug with boiling water; cover it over, and leave till cold. SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, VEGETABLES, AND SALADS. Mayonnaise Sauce. 376. Take one yolk of a raw egg, salt, pepper, and a little raw mustard. Mix these together with a silver fork in a large plate; add salad oil, little by little (it will take almost any quantity, but you must be guided by taste and the quantity required). Mix by stirring one way until thick and smooth ; then add vinegar enough to thin it a little. If there is any difficulty found in getting the oil to mix smoothly, add just a few drops of vinegar from time to time and keep stirring, and it will finally come right. Lobster Sauoe. 377. Break a lobster carefully, cut the meat into small pieces, beat the spawn very fine in a marble mortar with a bit of butter. Put a little melted butter on the fire, add the spawn to it, also one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, pepper, salt, cayenne, and about half a teacup of cream; mix well, simmer a little, put in the pieces of lobster, simmer again, but do not boil, or it will curdle. Sauce Tartare. 378. One saltspoonful of good cayenne pepper in very fine powder, half a saltspoonful of salt, a little saccharin ; mix well, then add one tablespoonful of the strained juice of a lemon,383.] SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, VEGETABLES. 127 two tablespoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, one teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, and a small wineglass of port wine. Put all this into a jar, and place the jar in a pan of boiling water to heat the sauce. Very good to mix with other gravy, or to use with anything grilled. Sauce Espagnole. 379. Boil two eggs hard, chop up fine; take half a cup of thin cream or good milk; add to it the beaten raw yolk of an egg; warm onthe fire to thicken a little. Add pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and the chopped eggs. Heat well, and serve. Sauce Piquante. 380. Boil together a tablespoonful of chopped onion, same of parsley, and of mushrooms, in one ounce of butter for five minutes ; then add half a pint of good stock, add salt and cayenne, and stir in last one tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil a few minutes. Cucumber Sauce. 381. Peel some cucumbers, cut up very small; put them into a saucepan with a little broth, half a tablespoonful of vinegar, salt, cayenne, and a little essence of celery (or omit the salt and use celery salt); a small bit of boiled onion may be added if liked, and a bit of butter. Stew gently till tender; rub through a sieve. Serve with any cutlets. Dutch Sauce. 382. The yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, quarter of a pint of cream, a small piece of butter, a little cayenne, and a blade of mace. To be all stirred together one way and simmered till it is the consistency of custard. Serve very hot. Horseradish Sauce. 383. Half a teaspoonful of mustard and a little salt; work into it two tablespoonfuls of cream until quite smooth, one orFOODS FOR THE FAT. 128 [384- two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish. If too thick or hot, add a little more cream. The mustard can be omitted if not liked very hot. Cold Sauce Piquante. 384. Boil two eggs very hard, rub the yolks through a sieve, add one tablespoonful of salad oil, tarragon vinegar, chilli vinegar, and common vinegar, a little minced parsley and shallot, pepper, salt, a teacupful of cream; stir all well and smooth together. It is better to put the vinegar in last. Sauce for Cold Game. 385. One teaspoonful of made mustard, a very little saccha- rin, two teaspoonfuls of salad oil; mix smooth. Beat the yolks of two eggs, add salt, pepper, and some minced parsley; mix well with the above, then add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and half a glass of white wine. Salad Mixture. 386. Two yolks of hard-boiled eggs, rubbed very smooth, with a good pinch of salt, a little saccharin, a teaspoonful of raw mustard; mix all well. Next, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil worked in by degrees, four tablespoonfuls of cream; lastly, one to two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. More cream can be added before the vinegar if too thick or if it is too hot of mustard. Pudding Sauce. 387. The beaten yolk of an egg, mixed with a little saccharin and half a teacupful of cream. Stir over the fire until it thickens, then add half a wineglass of wine ; warm it, but do not let it boil. Lemon Sauce. 388. Cut the rind of a lemon very thin; boil it for three minutes in a teacup of water; stir in the juice of - the lemon, strained, and add a little saccharin and a few drops of brandy.393-] SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, VEGETABLES. 129 Sauce Piquante. 389. Half a teacup of gravy, one tablespoonful of French mustard, two of Worcester sauce, two of port wine, a little saccharin, one teaspoouful of shallot and chilli vinegar. Warm gently over a slow fire, and serve over warmed game; or pieces of meat or game can be warmed in it. Brown Onion Sauce. 390. Slice some onions, about five; brown in a stewpan with butter; add half a pint of good stock, and stew till tender. Tomato Sauce. 391. Melt in a stewpan a dozen or two ripe tomatoes (which, before putting into the stewpan, cut in two and squeeze the juice and the seeds out). Then put two shallots, one onion, a clove, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a few leaves of mace, and when melted rub them through a tamis. Mix a few spoonfuls of good espagnole and a little salt and pepper with this pur6e. Boil it for twenty minutes, and serve. Mint Sauce. 392. Wash and free from grit three tablespoonfuls of young green mint, chop exceedingly fine and put it in a sauce-tureen with a teacupful of vinegar, and sweeten according to taste with saccharin. Mint sauce should be allowed to stand an hour or two before being used. Tartar Sauce. 393. Kub the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs to a powder; add a saltspoonful of mustard, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a grain of cayenne, and the beaten yolk of one egg ; stir in drop by drop four tablespoonfuls of lucca oil, two table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and one tablespoonful of French vinegar; continue to stir till the sauce becomes thick ; 9"3° FOODS FOR THE FAT. [394. chop quite fine one shallot, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and one small gherkin; stir these into the sauce, and serve cold. Royal Sauce for Fish. 394. Beat two raw yolks of eggs with two ounces of fresh butter; add gradually a teaspoonful of elder vinegar, a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a teaspoonful of soy, a pinch of cayenne, and a very small quantity of nutmeg. Pour the mixture into an earthen jar; set this in a small saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling, stirring briskly all the time, until the sauce begins to thicken and presents a rich, smooth appearance ; be careful that it does not curdle, which it will quickly do if not taken from the fire as soon as it is smooth and thick. Time, about ten minutes. Italian Sauce. 395. Put the following ingredients into a stewpan : Two spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, one of parsley, half a shallot, . the same of bay-leaf; add pepper and salt to taste. Stew them gently with just enough espagnole sauce to moisten them, and thin to a proper consistency with good strong broth. Brown Butter Sauce for Fish. 396. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and stir it till it is brown without burning. Add two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of good brown sauce, a tablespoonful of Harvey, a teaspoonful of bruised capers, and half a teaspoonful of anchovy. Stir the same over the fire till it boils, and serve. Spinach Sauce for Boiled Fowls, etc. 397. Wash the spinach in two or three waters, pick the leaves from the stalks, drain it, and stew it with as much water only as will keep it from burning. Squeeze the moisture401.] SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, VEGETABLES. 131 from it, and beat it with a wooden spoon till smooth. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, put in the spinach, and stir it till it is quite hot and dry. Add pepper and salt, and as much boiling milk as will make the same of the consistency of thick cream. Mushroom Sauce. 398. Button or flap mushrooms may be used for this sauce. They should be rinsed in cold water, drained, and dried in a soft cloth, and if flap ones cut into pieces. Simmer the mush- rooms, without stalks, in half a pint of beef gravy; add a little mushroom ketchup and an ounce of butter. If liked, flavour with lemon peel, and squeeze in some of the juice before serving. Apple Sauce. 399. Pare, core, and slice four or five apples; place them in a saucepan with only just enough water to keep them from burning. Let them simmer gently, stirring frequently, over a slow fire, until they are reduced to a pulp ; turn them into a bowl, and beat them well; sweeten with saccharin according to taste, and add the squeeze of a lemon, and a small piece of butter. Gooseberry Sauce. 400. Cut the tops and stalks from half a pint of green gooseberries; boil them until tender, press them through a sieve, and mix them with a little butter. Various seasonings may be used for this sauce, such as grated ginger or grated lemon-rind, grated nutmeg, a little saccharin, or cayenne pepper ; a wineglassful of sorrel or spinach-juice is a decided improvement. Sauce for Mutton Chops. 401. Take three tablespoonfuls of gravy, two of wine, two of Worcester sauce or ketchup, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of shallot vinegar ; stir till hot; pour over the chops. 9—2INDEX. The figures refer to the t Aerated drinks and waters, 110, 111, 112, 113 ' Aids to Long Life,' pages 11, 19 Alcohol: Effects of, 87 Injury by, 88 Best mode of taking, 90 Quantity of safe, 88 Not fattening, 88 Appetite and food, 26 Asiatics, Food of, page 20 Assam tea, 105 Assimilation of food, 51 Banting's diet, 25 Solids in, 38 System wrong, 31 Beer injurious to fat people, 89 A cause of gout and bilious- ness, 89 Beverages : American drink, 369 Apple water, 375 Cherry brandy, 365 Claret-cup, 370 Cream of tartar, 367 Egg and chablis, 368 ,, brandy, 366 ,, wine, 371 Fruit drinks, 374 Lemonade, 362 Orange gin, 364 Tamarind water, 363 Wine caudle, 373 Breakfast di-hes : Baked eggs, 144 Bloaters, 159 Brawn, Duck olives, 167 iber of the paragraphs. Breakfast dishes (continued) : Eggs and garlic, 160 Eish rissoles, 150 Fried soles or cod, 145 Haddocks, dried, 162 Herrings, pickled, 163 Hunter's beef, 141 Indian devil mixture, 142 Irish sandwiches, 133 Kidney balls, 152 ,, omelette, 164 ,, minced, 165 Lamb cutlets, 134 Ling, fresh, 158 Mushrooms and eggs, 161 Mackerel, boiled, 135 broiled, 136 ,, „ and tarra- gon butter, 137 Meat, hot, devilled, 147 Meat rissoles, German, 138 Mullet, red, baked, 156 Mushroom toast, 128 ,, au buerre, 129 grilled, 130 Mutton chops, 127 „ kidneys, fried, 126 ,, ,, stewed, 132 ,, cutlets and tomato sauce, 131, 401 Mutton kidneys, broiled, 166 Pig's kidneys, broiled, 139 fried, 140 Pheasant, potted, 168 Savoury omelette, 143 Salmon, kippered, grilled, 146 Sheep's tongues, stewed, 149 Sweetbreads, browned, 154 Trout, fried, 155134 INDEX. Breakfast dishes (continued) : Trout, broiled, 170 Veal cake, 169 Blood, Circulation of, 5 Healthy, 13 Brahmin's food, page 20 Breathlessness in corpulency, 4 Burgundy, good in corpulence, 92 Characteristics of, 93 High price of, 94 Byron, Lord, on Fat, page 23 Carbo-hydrate, Meaning of, page 22 Carlsbad for corpulency, 52 Chablis wine, 94 Chateau Yquem, 94 Chinese way of making tea, 101 Claret good for the fat, 92 Climate and food, 49 Cocoa as a dietic, 109 Injurious to fat people, 109 Coffee, page 37 As a stimulent Its use, page 37 When first used, page 37 Useful in obesity, page 38 ,, in fatigue, page 38 Constipation in corpulency, 6 Corpulency, Breathlessness in, 4 Cause of, 3 Commencement of, 1 Constipation in, 6 Death from, 11 Diet in, 13 Different exercise in, 4 Faintness in, 11 Eruptions in, 9 Gout in, 9 Liability to cold in, 7 Liability to disease in, 9 Liquids in, 3 Medicine injurious in, 12 Mental activity in, 8 Perspiration in, 9 Perverted nutrition, 12 Piles in, 6 Rheumatism in, 9 Rules in, 13 Shortness of breath in, 11 Shortness of life in, 11 Sluggish circulation in, 5 Subjects of, 2 Corpulency (continued): Weakness in, 10 Diarrhoea, 7 Diet, influence on character, 10 Hospital, 27 Prison, page 15 Digestion improved by exercise, 78 Dinner dishes : Beef, minced, 279 ,, curried, 277 ,, fried, 227 ,, kidney to dress, 278 ,, steak, fried, 228 Broiled chicken, 237 Calf's liver, a la mode, 275 Calf's head and oysters, 284 ,, ragout, 285 Calf's heart, roasted, 229 ,, sweetbreads, stewed, 230 Chicken, a la Marengo, 272 ,, devilled, 273 „ fried, 274 Fillets de boeuf aux truffles, 264 Fowls, boiled, 236 ,, Guinea, roasted, 235 Indian fagadu, 258 „ hash, 233 Lamb, Loin of braised, 276 ,, chops,with tomato sauce, 286 Larks, broiled, 242 Leveret, roasted, 260 Liver, fried, 243 Meat-pie, a la Don Pedro, 361 Minced collops, 231 Mutton, kebobbed, 256 ,, cutlets to stew, 283 ,, Neck of, boiled, 255 roebuck fashion, 257 ,, Shoulder of boned, 232 ,, curried, 234 Norman hash, 282 Ox-tail, stewed, 235 ,, with spinach Omelette, with gravy, 262 Partridge, broiled, 250 „ cold, 252 ,, Salmis of, 251 Peafowl, roasted, 249 Perdrix au Vin, 244 Pigeons, 238135 INDEX. Dinner dishes (continued) : Pigeons, compote of, 253 „ stewed with mush- rooms, 239 Pigeons, with watercress, 254 Pheasant, boiled, 245 ,, broiled, 246 ,, roasted, 248 Salmi of, 247 Rabbits, boiled, 265 „ a la Tartare, 267 „ fricasseed, 270 „ Ragout of, 271 ,, roasted, 266 „ stewed, 269 ,, with tomato sauce, 268 Sweetbreads, curried, 259, 240 ,, with sauce piqu- ante, 241 Venison, to roast, 280 „ hashed, 281 Drink in corpulency, 112 Eating to live, 35 Between meals, 35 Ebstein's diet, 25 System for reducing fat, 32 Its composition, 32 Esquimaux live on fat, 62 Exercise, page 29 Amount of necessary, 79 After meals, injurious, 83 Importance of, 76 In daily work, 80 Regular, 81 Riding, 82 Farinaceous food, 37 Fat: A sign of health, 54 Heat-producing, 60 In body, Weight of, 2, 53 In muscle, Danger of, 36 In Arctic regions, 61 Keeps the body warm, 54 Prevents starvation, 56 Resists cold, 63 Stored food, 55 Sustains heat of body, 54, 64 Sustains life, page System for reducing, 35 Uses of, page 24 Fatigue, Tea, useful in, 99 Fish : Cod, crimped, 224 Haddocks, broiled, 208 „ baked, 209 fillets of, 210 Lobster, cold, 201 ,, dressed with sauce piquante, 202 ,, salad, 203 ,, a la creme, 204 Mullet, Gray, broiled, 195 „ stewed, 196 Oysters, baked, 222 „ cold, 197 „ fritters, 223 „ omelette of, 198 „ scalloped, 199 Perch, fried with herbs, 200 Plaice, boiled, 217 ,, filleted, 215 Red Mullet, broiled, 211 fried, 212 Smelts, 213 „ broiled, 214 Sole au vin blanc, 219 „ broiled, 221 „ filleted (Italian), 220 Whiting, fried, 205 ,, au gratin, 206 ,, aux fines herbes, 207 „ broiled, 217 „ stewed, 216 Flesh, loss of, Safe when, 18 Food and appetite, 26 After forty, 69 Amount to be consumed, page 28 During growth, 69 Drink, its meaning, 42 Chosen : its requirements, 30 Classes of, 43 Climate, 49 Decrease of weight under cer- tain, 24 Different kinds, Vital value of, 48 Equivalent of, 21 For hard work, 14 In corpulency, 17 Limit of, Meals of, 29 Nitrogenous, 43136 INDEX. Food and appetite {continued): Non-Nitrogenous, 43 Required, 14 To make muscle, 16 To sustain strength, 19 To reduce fat, 28 Unconsumed, 50 Under cold, 15 French, Corpulence of, 2 Germans fat from beer-drinking, 89 Gout from too much food, 50 Gravy, page 81 Guy's Hospital: its diet, 27 Heart, to strengthen, 81 Height to weight, 41 Correct, 41 Indian tea, 105 Lambert, Daniel, Weight of, 2 Man a machine, 43 Compared to railway engine,47 Food, various in quantity, 68 Meat, Excess of, 67 Moleschott's diet-tables, 39 Muscles improved by exercise, 77 Napoleon's wine, page 33 Nitrogenous food: its composition, 44 Makes living tissue, page 21 The instrument of life, 45 Non-nitrogenous food : its composi- tion, 46 Nutrition perverted, 12 Obese, Temperament of, 8 Drink in, 13 Exercise for, 13 Obesity, Distinctions in, 36 Occupation influences amount of food, 49 Oertel's diet rules, 25 Improved blood and muscle in, 34 System for reducing fat, 33 Over-eating, Evils of, page 27 Effects of, 66 Palpitation caused by tea, 98 Piles in corpulency, 6 Plain living healthy, 65 Playfair's, Dr. Lyon, table of diet, 22 Eats, Experiments on, page 25 Saccharin, page 115 Where to procure, page 115 Saccharin sweets and jellies : Apple shape, 356 j, snow, 355 Apricot, Comp6te of, 361 Calf's-foot jelly, 338 Claret jelly, 342 Cherries, Compete of, 349 Currant and raspberry jelly, 345 Custard, 352 Damson, Comp6te of, 360 Gooseberry fool, 339 Lemon cream, 335 „ jelly, 341 ,, cream without cream, 336 Omelette plain, sweet, 351 Orange jelly, 344 Nourishing cream, 353 Pears, moulded, 359 Plums, Compdte of, 358 Easpberry cream, 337 Eed rhubarb, 348 Ehubarb mould, 354 „ fool, 357 Eum jelly, 346 Stewed apples, 347 ,, prunes, 344 Strawberry jelly, 343 Salad mixture, 386 Sauce: Apple, 399 Brown onion, 390 Brown butter, 396 Cucumber, 381 Game, cold, 385 Cold piquante, 384 Ductah, 382 Gooseberry, 400 Horseradish, 383 Italian, 395137 INDEX. Sauce {continued): Lemon, 388 Lobster, 377 Mayonnaise, 376 Mint, 392 Mushroom, 398 Pudding, 387 Royal, 394 Sauce tartare, 378 „ espagnole, 379 Tomato, 391 Scotch, Leanness of, 2 Season and food, 49 Sex : its influence, 69 Skin, Action of, in corpulency, 78 Soups: Brilla, 191 Brown, 192 Cabbage, 189 Carrot, 190 Fish, 183 Fowl ">r chicken, 179 Game, 180 Giblet, 193 Green pea, 181 Hare, 178 Hunter's, 173 Imperial, 193* Julienne, 171 Kidney, 185 Lobster, 194 Mulligatawny, 174 rabbit, 172 Ox-tail, clear, 175 Oyster, 182 Pheasant, 176 ,, another way, 177 Rabbit, 187 Tomato, 184 Vegetable, 188 White, 186 Stimulants in corpulency, page 32 Best mode of taking, page 33 Tea, page 34 Adulterated, 101, 102 Evil effects of, in excess, 98 How to make, 100 Moderate use of, beneficial, 105 Not a food, 97 Russian mode of making, 101 Tea [continued) : Use of, 97 Wholesome, 105 Varicose veins in corpulency, 7 Vegetables for corpulent people.page 111 Artichokes, boiled, 298 fried, 321 „ stewed in gravy, 322 „ mashed, 323 Asparagus, boiled, 298 Broadbeans, boiled, 301 Broccoli, boiled, 289 Brussels sprouts, 307 ,. saute, 334 Cabbage, boiled, 289 Cardoons, boiled, 296 Cauliflowers, boiled, 302 Cabbage, fried, 317 „ creamed, 320 Cauliflower, with sauce, 329 Celery, stewed, 295 Cucumbers, stewed, 325 French beans, boiled, 300 Green peas, boiled, 305 Haricots verts, 326 Leeks, boiled, 306 Lettuce, stewed, 293 Mushrooms, grilled, 294 „ broiled, 309 „ stewed, 330 Onions, boiled, 311 Portugal onions, stewed, 312 „ roasted, 313 Portugal onions, curried, 314 Ragout of celery, 315 Red cabbage, stewed, 324 Savoy cabbage, 288 Scotch kale, 290 Seakale, boiled, 291 „ stewed, 328 Spinach, boiled, 292 ,, with cream, 318 » .. gravy, 319 Tomatoes, curried, 327 baked, 332 Turnips, boiled, 297 Vegetable marrow, boiled, 303 11 in gravy 304INDEX. «3« Vegetables for corpulent people {continued) : Vegetable marrow, fried, 320 ,, mashed, 321 ,, mixed, 316 Weight to height, 40 Wines, Sweet, injurious, page 34 Wines (continued) : Light, best for fat people, 93 To be avoided, 94 Water, amount required, 111 In corpulency, 112 How used in the system, 113 Wine-merchant, To choose, 95 Wine with meals, 96 THE END. BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.BY THE SAME AUTHOR. AIDS TO LONG LIFE: A MEDICAL, DIETETIC, AND GENERAL GUIDE. Crown Svo., 294 pages, 2s. ; Cloth, 2s. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. ' By all who wish at once to prolong and enjoy their lives, Dr. Davies may be accepted as a safe and trustworthy guide.'— Knowledge. 'A most useful book.'—The World. ..... , ™, 'Supplies many hints for the arresting of disease in its incipient stages, —lite Christian World. . , 'Few people, we believe, will take up Dr. Davies' book without being struck v.ith the exceedingly useful nature of its contents, or be disappointed when they come to a deeper or more exhaustive perusal of the volume.'—Health. 'A very useful little work; and while concise, it is so comprehensive. -Glasgow H" The general idea is to indicate the gradual decay of life, and to suggest the best means of preventing the insidious dangers which await the human family m the progress from middle to old age.'—The Chemist and Druggist. ' Particularlv worthy of attention.'— The London Figaro. ' Contains useful information about food, physio, etc., addressed to those who have reached or passed the meridian of life : it deals with all matters m which such per- sons are deeply interested.'— The Queen. NURSERY HINTS: A MOTHER'S GUIDE IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Crown 8vo., 148 pages, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. ' Seldom do we come across a book of such thorough practical utility as this. This valuable little manual should be in the possession of every mother, no matter if she be rich or poor.'— Public Opinion. ' Dr. Davies writes with the authority derived from extensive experience and great professional knowledge, and the young mother or nurse cannot do better than follow the advice he gives.'—Scotsman. 'Useful in all cases where children forma part of the household.'—News of the World. ' The work before us is likely to become popular from the fact that the information is given in plain, untechnical language.'— Health. ONE THOUSAND MEDICAL MAXIMS. Crown 8vo., 128 pages, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. ' The advice given is characterized by sound moderation, and the more it is actod upon by people in health the less likelihood will there be of the necessity of calling in the doctor.'—Daily Chronicle. 'The idea is excellent.'—Pall Mall Gazette. ' Calculated to be very popular and of much service to those who use them.'— Derby Mercury. ' A capital book.'— The Scotsman. LONDON : CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY, W.A List of Books PUBLISHED BY CHATTO & WlNDUS, 214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W. Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers. Abbe Constantin (The) By Ludovic Halevy, of the French Academy. Translated into English. With 36 Photogravure Illustrations by Goupil & Co., after the Drawings of Madame Madeleine Lemaire. Only 250 copies of this choice book have been printed (in large quarto) for the English market, each one numbered. The price may be learned from any Bookseller. About.—The Fellah : An Egyp- tian Novel. By Edmond About. Translated by Sir Randal Roberts. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Adams (W. Davenport), Works by: A Dictionary of the Drama. Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Play- houses of the United Kingdom and America, from the Earliest to the Present Times. Crown 8vo, half- bound, 12s. 6d. [Preparing. Quips and Quiddities. Selected by VV. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. Advertising, A History of, from the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and Not ices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson. With Coloured Fron- tispiece and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. Agony Column (The) of "The Times," trom 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an Introduction, by Alice Clay. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 28. 6d. Aide (Hamilton), Works by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28. each. Carr of Carrlyon. | Confidences. Alexander (Mrs.), Novels by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Maid, Wife, or Widow? Valerie's Fate. Allen (Grant), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each. The Evolutionist at Large. Vignettes from Nature. Colin Clout's Calendar. Crown 8yo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated boards., 2s. each. Strange Stories. With a Frontispiece by George Du Maurier. The Beckoning Hand. With a Frontispiece by Townley Green. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 81. each, post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Philistia. I For Malmie's Sake. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Babylon : A Romance. In all Shades. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. Gd. each. The Devil's Die. | This Mortal Coil. Three Vols., The Tents of Shem. crown 8vo. Architectural Styles, A Hand- book of. Translated from the German Of A. ROSENGARTEN, by W. COLLETT- Sandars. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Arnold—Bird Life in England. By Edwin Lester Arnold. Crown 8vo, -loth extra, 63.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 4 Brand'sObservations on Popu- lar Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Bret Harte, Works by : Library Edition, Complete in Five Vols., cr. 8vo, cl.extra, 6s. each. Bret Harte's Collected Works: Library Edition. Airanged and Revised by the Author. Vol. I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Por- trait, and Introduction by Author. Vol. II. Earlier Papers—Luck of Roaring Camp,and other Sketches —Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends. Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts —Eastern Sketches. Vol. IV. Gabriel Conroy. Vol. V. Stories — Condensed Novels, ate. The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With Introduc- tory Essay by J. M. Bellew, Portrait of the Author, and 50 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Bret Harte's Complete Poetical Works. Author's Copyright Edition. Printed on hand-made paper and bound in buckram. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d. The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With 28 original Drawings by Kate Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours by Edmund Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Gabriel Conroy. An Heiress of Red Dog, &c. The Luck cf Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. Californlan Stories (including The Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post 8vo, i lustrated boards, 2s. each ; cloth, 2s. 6d. each, flip. I Maruja. & Phyllis of the Sierras. A Waif of the Plains. [Shortly. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. each. The Twins of Table Mountain. Jeff Briggs's Love Story. "jrewer (Rev. Dr.), Works by : The Reader's Handbookof Allusions, References, Plots, and Stories. Twelfth Thousand. With Appendix, containing a Complete English Bibliography. Cr. 8vo, cloth 7s. 6d. Brewer (Rev. Dr.), continued— Authors and their Works, with the Dates: Being the Appendices to "The Reader's Handbook," separ- ately printed. Cr. 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative, Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo, cloth extra 7s. 6d. Brewster(SirDavid),Works by: Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each. More Worlds than One: The Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian. With Plates. The Martyrs of Science: Lives of Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kep- ler. With Portraits. Letters on Natural Magic. A New Edition, with numerous Illustrations, and Chapters on the Being and Faculties of Man, and Additional Phenomena of Natural Magic, by J. A. Smith. Brillat-Savarin.-Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By Brillat-Savarin. Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A. Post 8vo, printed on laid-paper and half-bound, 2s. Brydges. — Uncle Sam at Home. By Harold Brydges. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.; cloth, 2s. 61. Buchanan's (Robert) Works: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each. Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour. With a Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes. Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan. With a Frontispiece by T. Dalziel. The Earthquake; or, Six Days and a Sabbath. The City of Dream: An Epic Poem. With Two Illusts. by P. Macnae. Second Edition. Robert Buchanan'sCompleto Poeti- cal Works. With Steel-plate Por- trait. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. bd. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each. The Shadow of the Sword. A Child of Nature. With a Frontis- piece. God and the Man. With Illustrations by Fred. Barnard. The Martyrdom of Madeline. With Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper. Love Me for Ever. With a Frontis- piece by P. Macnab. Annan Water. | The New Abelard. Foxglove Manor. Matt: A Story of a Caravan. The Master of the Mine. The Helrof Llnne-CHATTO &■ WINDUS, PICCADILLY. Burton (Captain).—The Book of the Sword: Being a History of the Sword and its Use in all Countries, from the Earliest Times. By Richard F. Burton. With over 400 Illustra- tions. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 32s. Burton (Robert): The Anatomy of Melancholy. A New Edition, complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of the Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Melancholy Anatomised: Being an Abridgment, for popular use, of Bur- ton's Anatomy of Melancholy. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Caine (T. Hall), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra,3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. The Shadow of a Crime. A Son of Hagar. The Deemster: A Romance of the Isle of Man. Cameron (Commander).— The Cruise of the "Black Prince" Privateer. By V. Lovett Cameron, R.N..C.B. With Two Illustrations by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., Ss.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Juliet's Guardian. 1 Deceivers Ever. Carlyle (Thomas) : On the Choice of Books. By Thomas Carlyle. With a Life of the Author by R. H. Shepherd. New and Re- vised Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, Is. 6d. The Correspondence of Thomas Carlyleand Ralph Waldo Emerson, 1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s. Chapman's (George) Works: Vol. I. contains the Plays complete, including the doubtlul ones. Vol. II., the Poems and Minor Translations, with an Introductory Essay by Alger- non Charles Swinburne. Vol. III., the Translations of the Iliad and Odys- sey. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 18s.; or separately, 6s. each. Chatto &. Jackson.—ATreatise on Wood Engraving, Historical and Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatto and John Jackson. With an Addi- tional Chapter by Henry G. Bohn ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint of the last Revised Ed tion. Large 4to, half-bound, 28s. Chaucer: Chaucer for Children: A Golden Key. By Mrs. H.R . Haweis. With Eight Coloured Pictures and nu- merous Woodcuts by the Author. New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s. Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.6d. Chronicle (The) of the Coach : Charing Cross to Ilfracombe. By J. D. Champlin. With 75 Illustrations by Edward L. Chichester. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Clodd.— Myths and Dreams. By Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S., Author of "The Story of Creation," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. Cobban.—The Cure of Souls: A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Coleman (John), Works by: Curly: An Actor's Story. Illustrated by J. C. Dollman. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Players and Playwrights I have Known. Two Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 24s. j Collins (Mortimer), Novels by : Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Sweet Anne Page. Transmigration. From Midnight to Midnight. A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Collins (Mortimer & Frances), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Blacksmith and Scholar. The Village Comedy. You Play Me Fp.lse. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Sweet and Twenty. Frances.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 6 Collins (Wilkie), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Antonina. Illust. by Su-JohnGilbert. Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gil- bert and J Mahoney. Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert and J. Mahoney. The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert. Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert. My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate Portrait of Wilkie Collins. The Woman In White. With Illus- trations by Sir John Gilbert and F. A. Fraser. The Moonstone. With Illustrations by G. Du Maurier and F. A. Fraser. Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small. Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by G. Du Maurier and Edward Hughes. Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by S. L. Fildes and Henry Woods. The New Magdalen. Illustrated by G.Du MAURiERand C.S.Reinhardt. The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney. The Law and the Lady. Illustrated by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall. The Two Destinies. The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by Arthur Hopkins. The Fallen Leaves. Jezebel's Daughter. The Black Robe. Heart and Science: A Story oi the Present Time. "I Say No." The Evil Genius. Little Novels. The Legacy of Cain. Cheap Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d [Preparing. Collins (C. Allston).—The Bar Sinister: A Story. By C. Allston Collins. Post8vo, illustrated bds.,2s. Colman's Humorous Works: " Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Col- man. With Life by G. B. Buckstone, and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown 8vo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. Colquhoun.—Every Inch a Sol- dier: A Novel. By M. J. Colquhoun. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Convalescent Cookery: A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan. Crown 8vo, la.; cloth, Is. 6d. I Conway (Moncure D.), Works by: Demonology and Devil-Lore. Third Edition. Two Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 Illustrations, 28s. A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy. Square Bvo, cloth extra, 6s. Pine and Paim : A Novel. Cheaper Ed. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. [Shortly. Cook (Dutton), Novels by : Leo. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Paul Foster's Daughter. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Copyright. —A Handbook of English and Foreign Copyright In Literary and Dramatic Works. By Sidney Ierrqld. Post8vo, cl., 2s. 6d. Cornwall.—Popular Romances of the West of England; or. The Drolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations by George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Craddock. — The Prophet of the Great Smoky Mountains. By Charles Egbert Craddock. Post 8vo illust. bds., 2s. cloth limp, 2s. 6<L Cruikshank (George) : The Comic Almanack. Complete in Two Series : The First from 1835 to 1843; the Second from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May- hew, Albert Smith, A'Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by Cruikshank, Hine, Landells, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick volumes, 7s. 6d. each. The Life of George Cruikshank. By Blanchard Jerrold, Author of "The Life of Napoleon III.," &c. With 84 Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Ad- ditional Plates, and a very carefully compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cumming(C. F. Gordon),Works by: Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each. In the Hebrides. With Autotype Fac- simile and numerous full-page III usts. In the Himalayas and on the Indian Plains. With numerous Illusts. Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a Photogravure Frontispiece, - Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 7 Cussans.— Handbook of Her- aldry; with Instructions for Tracing Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient MSS., &c. By John E. Cussans. Entirely New and Revised Edition, illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 61. Cyples.—Hearts of Gold: A Novel. By William Cyples. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Daniel.— Merrie England in the Olden Time. By George Daniel. With Illustrations by Robt. Cruik- shank. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Daudet.—The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation. By Alphonse Daudet. Translated by C. Harry Meltzer. With Portrait of the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. Davenant.—Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their Sons. By Francis Davenant, M.A. Post 8vo, Is.; cloth 1 irnp, Is. 6d. Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by: Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp, Is. 6d. each. One Thousand Medical Maxims. Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide. Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 2s.; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Davies' (Sir John) Complete Poetical Works, including Psalms I. to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Un- published MSS., for the first time Collected and Edited, with Memorial- Introduction and Notes, by the Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth board3, 12s. Daylight Land: The Adven- tures, Humorous and Otherwise, of Judge John Doe, Tourist; Cephas Pep- perell, Capitalist ; Colonel Goffe, and others, in their Excursion over Prairie and Mountain. By W. H. Murray. With 140 Illusts. in colours. Small 4to, cloth extra, 12s. 6d. De Maistre—A Journey Round My Room. By Xavier de Maistre. Translated by Henry Attwell. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. De Mi lie.—A Castle in Spain: A Novel. By James De Mille. With a Frontispieoe. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo; must, bds., 2s. Derwent (Leith), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers. Dickens (Charles), Novels by : Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Sketches by Boz. I NicholasNickleby Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist. The Speeches of Charles Dickens, 1841-1870. With a New Bibliography, revised and enlarged. Edited and Prefaced by Richard Herne Shep- herd. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.—Also a Smaller Edition, in the Mayfair Library. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. About England with Dickens. By Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustra- tions by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Dictionaries: A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative, Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. The Reader's Handbook of Allu- sions, References, Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. With an Appendix, contain- ing a Complete English Bibliography. Eleventh Thousand. Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Authors and their Works, with the Dates. Being the Appendices to "The Reader's Handbook," sepa- rately printed. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. A Dictionary of the Drama: Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights,Players, and Playhouses of the United Kingdom and America, from the Earliest to the Present Times. By W. Davenport Adams. A thick volume, crown 8vo, hall- bound, 12s. 6d. [in preparation. Familiar Short Sayings of Great Men. With Historical and Explana- tory Notes. By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,7s 6d. The Slang Dictionary: Etymologi al, Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d. Women of the Day: A Biographical Dictionary. ByFRANCEs Hays. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dic- tionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out- of-the-Way Matters. By Eliezer Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra 7s. 6d. 's Diderot.—The Paradox of Act- ing. Translated, with Annotations, from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le Comedien. " by Walter Herries Pollock. With a Preface by Henry Irving. Cr 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d. Dobson (W. T.), Works by : Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies, and Frolics. Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentri- cities. Donovan (Dick), Detective Stories by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 23. 6d. each. The Man-hunter: Stories Irom the Note-book of a Detective. Caught at Last! Doran. — Memories of our Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Glean- ings concerning their Worthies and their Oddities. By Dr. John Doran, F.S.A. With 38 Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit. Cr. 8vo,cl. extra, 7s. 6d. Drama, A Dictionary of the. Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Play- houses of the United Kingdom and America, from the Earliest to the Pre- sent Times. By W. Davenport Adams. (Uniform with Brewer s " Reader's Handbook.") Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation. Dramatists, The Old. Cr. 8vo, cl ex., Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol. Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes Critical and Explanatory, and a Bio- graphical Memoir by Wm. Gifford. Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols. Chapman's Works. Complete in Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the Plays complete, including doubtful ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor Translations,with IntroductoryEssay by A.C.Swinburne; Vol.III..Trans- lations ot the Iliad and Odyssey. Marlowe's Works. Including his Translations. Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by Col. Cunning- ham. One Vol. Massinger's Plays. From the Text of William Gifford. Edited by Col. Cunningham. One Vol. Dyer. — The Folk - Lore of Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Early English Poets. Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume. Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.; Complete Poems. One Vol. Davles' (Sir John) Complete Poetical Works. Two Vols. Herrick's (Robert) Complete Col- lected Poems. Three Vols. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete Poetical Works. Three Vols. Edgcumbe. — Zephyrus : A Holiday In Brazil and on the River Plate. By E. R. Pearce Edgcumbe. With 41 Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 5S. Edwardes (Mrs. A.), Novels by: A Point ot Honour. Post 8vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Archie Lovell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, as. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23. Eggleston.— Roxy: A Novel. By Edward EgglESTON. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. Emanuel.—On Diamonds and PreclousStones: their History.Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.), Works by: The Life and Times of Prince Charles Stuart, Count of Albany, commonly called the Young Pre- tender. From the State Papers and other Sources. New and Cheaper Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Stories from the State Papers. With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Studies Re-studied: Historical Sketches from Original Sources. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. Englishman's House, The: A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House; with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C.J. Richardson. Fourth Edition. With Coloured Frontispiece and nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Eyes, Our: How to Preserve Them from Infancy to Old Age. By John Browning,F.R.A.S.,&c. Seventh Edition (Twelfth Thousand). With 70 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth, Is.CHATTO &■ WINDUS, PICCADILLY. Familiar Short Sayings of Great Men. By Samuel Arthur Bent, A.M. Fifth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Cr. 8vo, el. ex., lJ±6(L Faraday (Michael), Works by : Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each. The Chemical History of a Candle: Lectures delivered before a Juvenile Audience at the Royal Institution. Edited by William Crookes, t.C.b. With numerous Illustrations. On the Various Forces of Nature, and their Relations to each other : Lectures delivered before a Juvenile | Audience at the Royal Institution. Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S. With numerous Illustrations. Farrer (James Anson), Works by: Military Manners and Customs. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. War: Three Essays, Reprinted from "Military Manners." Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Fin-Bee —The Cupboard Papers: Observations on the Art of Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Fireworks, The Complete Art of Making; or, The Pyrotechnist's Treasury. By Thomas Kentish. With 267 Illustrations. A New Edition, Re- vised throughout and greatly Enlarged. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by : The World Behind the Scenes. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Little Essays: Passages from the Letters of Charles Lamb. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. A Day's Tour: A Journey through France and Belgium. With Sketches in facsimile of the Original Draw- ings. Crown 4to picture cover, Is. Fatal Zero: A Homburg Diary. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten. The Second Mrs. Tillotson. Seventy-five Brooke Street Polly. I The Lady of Brantome. Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Com- plete Poems: Christ's Victorie in Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth. Christ's Triumph over Death, and Minor Poems. With Memorial-Intro- duction and Notes by the Rev. A. B. Grqsart, P.P. Cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 6s. Fonblanque.—Filthy Lucre: A Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Francillon (R. E-), Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.each; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each. One by One. I A Real Queen. Queen Cophetua. | Olympla. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, Is. King or Knave: A NoveL Cheaper Edition. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. Romances of the Law. Frontispiece by D. H. Friston. Cr 8vo cl. ex., 6s. Frederic. — Seth's Brothers Wife: A Novel. By Harold Frederic. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. French Literature, History of. By Henry Van Laun. Complete in 3 Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each. Frenzeny.—Fifty Years on the Trail : The Adventures 01 John Y. Nelson, Scout, Guide.and Interpreter, in the Wild West, By Harrington O'Reilly. With over 100 Illustrations by Paul Frenzeny. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Frere.—Pandurang Hari ; or, Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface by Sir H. Bartle Frere, G.C.S.I., &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Sd.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Friswell.—Oneof Two: ANovel. By Hain Friswell. Post 3vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Frost (Thomas), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Sd. each. Circus Life and Circus Celebrities. The Lives of the Conjurers, Old Showmen and Old London Fairs. Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide" to the London Charities, 1888-9 Showing their Name, Date of Founda- tion, Objects, Income, Officials, &c. Edited by John Lane. Published An- nually. Crown 3vo, cloth, Is. 6d. Gardening Books: Post 8vo, Is. each j cl. limp, Is. Sd. each. A Year's Work In Garden and Green- house : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management 0' the Flower,Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold. Household Horticulture: A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. ByF.G. Heath. Crown8vo cloth extra, 5s.; gilt edges, 6s.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 10 Garrett.—The Capel Girls: A Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo cl. ex.,3s,Gd.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1889.—Is. Monthly.—In addition to the Articles upon subjects in Litera- ture, Science, and Art, for which this Magazine has so high a reputation Table Talk" by Sylvanus Urban appears monthly. *»* Bound Volumes for recent years are kept in stock, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d. each ; Cases for binding, 2s. each. Gentleman's Annual (The). Published Annually in November. In picture cover. Detny8vo, Is. German Popular Stories. Col- lected by the Erothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited, with an Introduction, by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations on Steel by George Cruikshank. Square 8vo. cloth extra, 6s. 6d.; gilt edges, 7s- 6d. Gibbon (Charles), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Robin Gray. What will the World Say? Queen of the Meadow. The Flower of the Forest. In Honour Bound. Braes of Yarrow. A Heart's Prob- lem. TheGoldenShaft. Of High Degree. Loving a Dream. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. The Dead Heart. For Lack of Gold. For the King. | In Pastures Green. In Love and War. By Mead and Stream. A Hard Knot. | Heart's Delight. Blood-Money, and other Stories. Two Vols., crown 8vo. Gilbert (William), Novels by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Dr. Austin's Guests. The Wizard of the Mountain. James Duke, Costermonger. Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays by: In Two Series, each complete in itself, price 2s. 6d. each. The First Series contains —The Wicked World—Pygmalion and Ga- latea — Charity — The Princess — The Palace of Truth—Trial by Jurv. The Second Series contains—Bro- ken Hearts—Engaged—Sweethearts— Gretchen—Dan'l Druce—Tom Cobb— H.M.S. Pinafore—The Sorcerer—The Pirates of Penzance. Gilbert (W. S.), continued— Eight Original Comic Operas. Writ- ten by W. S. Gilbert. Containing: The Sorcerer—H.M.S. "Pinafore" —The Pirates of Penzance— Iolanthe — Patience — Princess Ida — The Mikado—Trial by Jury. Demy 8vo. cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Glenny.—A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse: Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit and Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Godwin.—Lives of the Necro- mancers. By William Godwin. Post 8vo, limp, 2s. Golden Library, The: Square i6mo (Tauchnitz size), cloth limp, 2s. per Volume. Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the Echo Club. Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History of England. Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors. Godwin's (William) Lives of the Necromancers. Holmes's Autocrat of the Break- fast Table. Introduction by Sala. Holmes's Professor at the Break fast Table. Hood's Whims and Oddities. Com- plete. All the original Illustrations. Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Oc- cupations of a Country Life. Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and other Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction by Edmund Ollier. Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort d'Arthur: The Stories of King Arthur and of the Knights of the Round Table. Edited by B. Mont- gomerie Ranking. Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New Translation, with Historical Intro- ductionand Notes,byT.M'CRiE.D.D, Pope's Poetical Works. Complete. Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral Reflections. With Notes, and In- troductory Essay by Sainte-Beuve. Golden Treasury of Thought, The: An Encyclopedia of Quota- tions from Writers of all Times and Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. Gd. Graham. — The Professor's Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is.CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. n Greeks and Romans, The Life of the, Described from Antique Monu- ments. By Ernst Guhl and W. Koner. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by Dr. F. Hueffer. 545 Illusts. New and Cheaper Edition, large crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Greenaway (Kate) and Bret Harte.—The Queen of the Pirate Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25 original Drawings by Kate Green- away, Reproduced in Colours by E. Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s. Hanky-Panky: A Collection of Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricky White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c, Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 20c Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,4s. 6d. Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul Wynter's Sacrifice: A Story. By Lady Duffus Hardy. Post8vo, illust. bs.,2s. Hardy (Thomas).—Under the finonn r\ H "Twoo Rv ThCI VT A ^ T-Tat?T)V vj rtici 1 wkj\jLi 1 l ew* -L> y 1 numao iiAnuif Author of " Far from the Madding Crowd." With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Greenwood (James),Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each. The Wilds of London. Low-Life Deeps: An Account of the Strange Fish to be Found There. Harwood.—The Tenth Earl. By J. Berwick Harwood. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Haweis (Mrs. H. R.),Works by: The Art of Dress. With numerous Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d. The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Coloured Frontispiece and Ulusts.6s. The Art of Decoration. Square 8vot handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, 10s. 6d. Chaucer for Children: A Golden Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous Woodcuts. New Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s. Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Greville (Henry).—Nikanor : A Novel. From the French of Henry Greville, Author of "Dosia," &c. With 8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Habberton (John), Author of " Helen's Babies," Novels by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Bpueton's Bayou. Country Luck. Hair (The): Its Treatment in Health, Weakness, and Disease. Translated from the German of Dr. J. Pincus. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Haweis (Rev. H. R.).—American Humorists: Washington Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward, Mark Twain, and Bret Harte. By Rev. H. R. Haweis. M.A. Cr. 8vo. 6s. Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each. New Symbols. Legends of the Morrow. The Serpent Play. Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 88. Hawthorne(Julian), Novelsby. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Garth. Sebastian Strome. Ellice Quentln. Dust. Fortune's Fool. Beatrix Randolph. David Polndexter's Disappearance. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. MlssCadogna. | Love—oraName. Prince Saroni's Wife. Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, Is. A Dream and a Forgetting. By Julian Hawthorne. Cr. 8vo, pic- ture cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. The Spectre of the Camera. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Hall.—Sketches of Irish Cha- racter. By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Maclise, Gilbert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. Halliday.—Every-day Papers. By Andrew Halliday. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Handwriting, The Philosophy of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Ex- planatory Text. By Don Felix de Salamanca. Post 8vo, cl limp, 2s. 6d.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY J 2 Hays—Women of the Day: A Biographical Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries. By Frances Hays. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Ss. Heath (F. G.). — My Garden WHd, and What I Grew There. By Francis George Heath, Author of " The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 6s. Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by : Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Animals and their Masters. Social Pressure. Ivan de Blron: A Novel. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Henderson.—Agatha Page: A Novel. By Isaac Henderson, Author of " The Prelate." Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Herman.—One Traveller Re- turns: A Romance. By Henry Her- man and D. Christie Murray. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides, Noble Numbers, and Complete Col- lected Poems. With Memorial-Intro- duction and Notes by the Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index of First Lines, and Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 18s. Hesse-Wartegg (Chevalier Ernst von), Works by : Tunis: The Land and the People. With 22 Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. The New South-West: Travelling Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona, and Northern Mexico. With ioo fine Illustrations and Three Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, iis. Un preparation. Hindley (Charles), Works by: Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: In- cluding the Origin of Signs, and Reminiscences connected with Taverns. Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. The Life and Adventures of a Cheap Jack. By One of the Fraternity. Edited by Charles Hindley. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Hoey.—The Lover's Creed. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey. Post Svo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Holmes (O.Wendell),Works by: The Autocrat of the Breakfast- Table. Illustrated by J. Gordon Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.—Another Edition in smaller type, with an Introduction by G. A. Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. The Professor at the Breakfast- Table ; with the Story of Iris. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2a. Holmes. — The Science of Voice Production and Voice Preser- vation: A Popular Manual tor the Use of Speakers and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illus- trations. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, 18. 6d. Hood (Thomas): Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals. With Life of the Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustra- tions. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d Hood's Whims and Oddities. Com- plete. With all the original Illus- trations. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. Hood (Tom), Works by: Hook's (Theodore) Choice Hu- morous Works, including his Ludi- crous Adventures.Bons Mots, Puns and Hoaxes. With a New Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, gilt, 7s. 61. Hooper.—The House of Raby. A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Horse (The) and his Rider: An Anecdotic Medley. By " Thormanby." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 68. Hopkins—"'Twixt Love and Duty:" A Novel. By Tighe Hopkins. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. Home.—Orion : An Epic Poem, in Three Books. By Richard Hen- gist Horne. With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Sum- mers. Tenth Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Thornlcroft's Model. The Leaden Casket. Self-Condemned. That other Person. From Nowhere to the North Pole: A Noah's Arkseological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun- ton and E. C. Barnes. Square crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s. A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.CHATTO &■ WINDUS, PICCADILLY. it Hunt.—Essays by Leigh Hunt. A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and other Pieces. With Portrait and In- troduction by Edmund Ollier. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. Hydrophobia: an Account of M. Pasteur's System. Containing a Translation of all his Communications on the Subject, the Technique of his Method, and the latest Statistical Results By Renaud Suzor, M.B., CM. Edin., and M.D. Paris, Commis- sioned by the Government of the Colony of Mauritius to study M. Pasteur's new Treatment in Pans. With 7 IUusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 5S. Indoor Paupers. By One of Them. Crown 8vo. U.; cloth, 13. 6d. Inge low.—Fated to be Free : A Novel. By Jean Ingelow. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. Irish Wit and Humour, Songs of Collected and Edited by A. Per- cevalGraves. Post 8vo,cl.limp. 2s.6d. James.—A Komance of the Queen's Hounds- ByCHARLES James. Post 8yo^ct^m^covj^,_lS.; cl.,13. bet. Janvier^Practical Keramics for Students. By Catherine A, Tanvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Jay~(Harriett), Novels oy: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each. The Dark Colleen. The Queen of Connaught Jefferies (Richard), Works by: Nature near London. Crown 8vo, cl. ex , 63.; post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6tt. The Life of the Fields. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. The Open Air. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.: post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d. The Eulogy of Richard Jefferies. By Walter Besant. Second Ed. Photo. Portrait. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. Jennings (H. J.), works by: Curiosities of Criticism. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. . Lord Tennyson: A Biographical Sketch. With a Photograph-Por- trait. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Jerrold (Tom), Works by: Post 8vo, 13. each; cloth, 13. 6d. each. The Garden that Paid the Rent. Household Horticulture: A Gossip about Flowers. Illustrated. Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook Them. Jesse.—Scenes and Occupa- tions of a Country Life. By Edward Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. Jeux d'Esprit. Collected and Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. "John Herring," Novels by the Author of: Red Spider. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 23. Eve.' Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Jones (Wm, F.S.A.), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. Finger-Ring Lore: Historical Le- gendary, and Anecdotal. With over Two Hundred Illustrations. Credulities, Past and Present ; in- cluding the Sea and Seamen, Miners, Talismans.Word and Letter Divina- tion, Exorcising and Blessing o. Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c. With an Etched Frontispiece. Crowns and Coronations : A History of Regalia in all Times and Coun- tries. One Hundred Illustrations. Jonson's (Ben) Works, "With Notes Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical Memoir by William Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cun- ningham. Three Vols., crown 8vo, rlnth extra. 18s.; or separately, 6s. each. Xos^phus.TheCompI ete Wo r ks of Translated by Whiston. Con- taining both " The Antiquities of the Tews" and "The Wars of the Jews." Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt. 14s. Kempt.—Pencil and Palette: Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. _ Kershaw.—Colonial Facts and Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.; cloth, 2s. 6d. Keyser.—Cut by the Mess: A Novel. By Arthur Keyser. Cr. 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cl., Is. 6d. [Shortly. King (R. Ashe), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each- post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. A Drawn Game. "The Wearing of the Green Kingsley (Henry), Novels by: Oakshott Castle. Post Svo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, clot extra, 33. 6d. Knight.—The Patient's Vade Mecum: How to get most Benefit from Medical Advice. By William Knight, M.R.C.S.,a-nd Edw. Knight, L R.C.P. Cr. 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is 6d.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Knights (The) of the Lion - A Romance of the Thirteenth Century Edited, with aD Introduction, by the Marquess of Lorne, K.T. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 63. Lamb (Charles): Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Ori- ginal Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with ISotes and Introduction, by R H Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of Page of the "Essay on Roast Pig." Cr.8vo,cl.extra, 7s. 6d. The Essays of Elia. Both Series complete. Post 8vo, laid paper, handsomely half-bound, 2s. Poetry for Children, and Prince Dorus. By Charles Lamb. Care- fully reprinted from unique copies. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. Little Essays: Sketches and Charac- ters by Charles Lamb. Selected from his Letters by Percy Fitz- gerald. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Lane's Arabian Nights^The Thousand and One Nights: com- monly called, in England, " The Arabian Nights* Entertain- ments." A New Translation from the Arabic with copious Notes, by Edward William Lane. Illustrated by many hundred Engravings on Wood, from Original Designs by Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from a Copy annotated by the Translator, edited by his Nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. With a Preface by Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols., demy gyp, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. Larwood (Jacob), Works by: The Story of the London Parks. With Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Forensic Anecdotes. Theatrical Anecdotes. Leigh (Henry S.), Works by: Carols of Cockayne. A New Edition, printed on fcap. 8vo, hand-made paper, and bound in buckram, 5s. Jeux d'Esprit. Collected and Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Leys.—The Lindsays: A Ro- mance of Scottish Life. By John K. Leys. Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Life in London ; or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the whole of Cruik- shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d. Lin skill.—in Exchange for a Soul. By Mary Linskill, Author of The Haven Under the Hill," &c. Cheaper Edit. Post8vo, illust. bds.,2s. Linton (E. Lynn), Works by" ll0' ?,oth limP- 2s' 6d- each. Witch Stories. The True Story of Joshua Davidson Ourselves: Essays on Women. Crown 8yo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s. each. Patricia Kemball. The World Well Lost. Under which Lord 0 "My Love!" | ,one. Paston Carew, Millionaire & Miser. wm8v0'ei!![mrated boards- 2s.ea*h. With a Silken Thread. The Rebel of the Family. Longfellow's Poetical Works Carefully Reprinted from the Original" Editions. With numerous fine Illustra- tions on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. Sd. Long Life, Aids to: A Medical Dietetic, and General Guide in Health and Disease. By N. E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Cr. 8vo, 2s.; cl. limp,2s.6d. Lucy.—Gideon Fleyce: A Novel By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illnst. bds., 2s. Lusiad (The) of Camoens. Translated into English Spenserian Verse by Robert Ffrench Duff Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-pa°e Plates, cloth boards, 18s Macalpine(Avery), Novels by: Teresa Itasca, and other Stories. Crown 8vo, bound in canvas, 2s 6d ' Broken Wings. With Illusts. by W T Hennessy. Cr.8vo, cloth extra, 6s.' McCarthy (Justin H., mTpTl Works by: An Outline of the History of Ireland from the Earliest Times to the Pre- sent Day. Cr. 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Ireland since the Union: Sketches of Irish History from I7g8 to 1886. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. England Under Gladstone, 1880-85. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Our Sensation Novel. Edited by Justin H. McCarthy. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Dolly: A Sketch. Crown 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Haflz In London. Choicely printed. Small 8vo, gold eloth, 3s. 6d.15 CHATTO &• W INDUS, PICCADILLY. McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works Abm<5torv of Our Own Times, from ^eSsion oi Queen Victor* to the General Election of 1880 Four Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each -Also a Popular Edition, in Four Vols. cr. 8vo, el. extra, 6s. each -And a Jubilee Edition, with an ADDendix of Events to the end ot ^complete in Two Vols square 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each. A Short History of Our Own Times. One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra 6s. History of the Four Georges Three Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 123. each. [Vol. II. nearly ready. Crown 8vo7doTrTeItrir3s- 6J- each'• post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each. Dear Lady Disdain. The Waterdale Neighbours. A Fair Saxon. Miss Misanthrope. Donna Quixote. The Comet of a Season. Maid of Athens. • . Camlola: A Girl with a Fortune. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Llnley Rochford. My Enemy's Daughter. -The RIghtlTpnourable:" A. Ro- mance of Society and Politics. By Iustin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs. Campbell-Praed. NewandCheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. MacColl.-^nvilr\ Stranger's Sealed Packet: A New Story of Adventure. By Hugh MacColl. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. MacDonald.—Works of Fancy and Imagination. By George Mac- donald, LL.D. Ten Volumes, in handsome cloth case, 21s.-Vol 1. Within and Without. The Hidden LiFE— Vol. 2. The Disciple. The Gospel Women. A Book of Sonnets, Organ Songs.—Vol. 3. Violin Songs. Songs of the Days and Nights. A Book of Dreams. Roadside Poems. Poems for Children. Vol. 4. Para- bles. Ballads. Scotch Songs.-- Vols S and 6. Phantastes: A Faerie Romance.-Vol. 7. The Portent.- Vol 8. The Light Princess. The Giant's Heart. Shadows.—Vol. 9. Cross Purposes. The Golden Key. The Carasoyn. Little Daylight.— Vol. 10. The Cruel Painter. The Wowo'Rivven. The Castle. The Broken Swords. The Gray Wolf. Uncle Cornelius. The Volumes are also sold separately in Grolier-patlern cloth, 23. 6d. etuh. Macdonell.—Quaker Cousins. A Novel. By Agnes Macdonell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 64.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. Macgregor. — Pastimes and Players. Notes on Popular Games. By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Mackay.—Interludes and Un- dertones ; or, Music at Twilight. By Charles Mackay, LL.D, Crown 8vo cloth extra, 6s. Maclise Portrait-Gallery (The) of Illustrious Literary Characters ; with Memoirs—Biographical, Critical, Bibliographical, and Anecdotal—illus- trative of the Literature of the former half of the Present Century. By William Bates, B.A. . With 85 Por- traits printed on an India Tint. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 7s.6d. Macquoid (Mrs.), Works by: Square 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illus- trations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Pictures and Legends from Nor- mandy and Brittany. With numer- ous Illusts. by Thomas R. Macquoid, Through Normandy. With 90 Illus- trations by T. R. Macquoid. Through Brittany. With numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustra- tions by T. R. Macquoid. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. The Evil Eye, and other Stories. Lost Rose. Magician's Own Book (The^: Performances with Cups and Balls, Eggs Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual Experience. Edited by W. H. Cremer. With200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. Magic Lantern (The), and its Management: including full Prac- tical Directions for producing the Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C. Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d. Magna Charta. An exact Fac- simile of the Original in the British Museum, printed on fine plate paper, 3 feet by 2 ieet, with Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 6s.i5 Mallock (W. H.), Works by. T=nHND£lM', ReP"b'.'c; or, Culture, Faith and Philosophy in an English Country House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.: Cheap Edition, illustrated boards 2s The New Paul and Virginia; or, Posi- tivism on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth hmp, 2s 6d. ' Poems Small 4to, in parchment. 8s Hf? worth Living P Crowe Svo cloth extra, 6s. Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort d'Arthur: The Stories of King Arthur and ol the Knights of the Round Table. Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. Man • Hunter (The) : Stories from the Note-book of a Detective. By Dick Donovan. Post 8vo. illustrated boards, 2s. • cloth. 2s. 6d. ' BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Mark Twain, Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s 6d. each. The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected throughout by the Authoi With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations. Roughing It, and The Innocents at Home With 20c Illustrations by F. A Fraser. The Gilded Age By Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner. With 212 Illustrations by T. Coffin. Mark Twain's Library of Humour. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, ciotb extra, (illustrated), 7s. 6d. each; post 8vc fwiihoul Illus- trations), illustrated boards. 2s. each. The Innocents Abroad ; oi, The New Pilgrim's Progress • ' Mark Twain's Pleasure Trip " The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. With in Illustrations The Prince anc the Pauper. With nearly 200 Illustrations. A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illusts. Life on the Mississippi. With 300 Illustrations. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. With 174 Illustrations by E. W. Kemble. The Stolen White Eiephant, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 6s.; post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s. Marlowe's Works. Including his Translations. Edited, with Motes and Introductions, by Col. Cun- ningham. Crown 8vo, cloth extra bs. Marryat (FlorenoepJo^elsby: Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s.6d each' post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s. each' Open! Sesame^ J_Wrltten In Fire. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. eacn. A Harvest of Wild Oats. Fighting the Air. Massinger s Plays. From the Text of William Gifford. Edited Dy Col Cunningham. Crown Bvo. clotb extra, 63 Masterman.—Half a Dozen Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master- man. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Matthews.—A Secret of the Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews. Post 8vo,illust. bds„ 2s.; cloth, 2s. 6d. Mayfair Library, The: Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume. A Journey Round My Room. By Xavier de Maistre. Translated by Henry Attwell. Quips and Quiddities. Selected by W. Davenport Adams. The Agony Column of "The Times," from 180c tc 1870. Edited, with an Introduction, by Alice Clay. Melancholy Anatomised: A Popular Abridgment of "Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy." The Speeches of Charles Dickens. Literary frivolities, Fancies, Follies, ana Frolics. By W. T. Dobson. Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentric!- ties. Selected and Edited by W. T. Dobson. The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec. Original Plays by \V. S. Gilbert. First Series. Containing: The Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea—Charity— The Princess— The Palace of Truth—Trial by Jurv. Original Plays by W. S Gilbkrt. Second Series. Containing: Broken Hearts —Engaged— Sweethearts — Gietchen—Dan'l Druce—Tom Cobb —H.M.S. Pinafore —The Sorcerer —The Pirates of Penzance. Songs of Irish Wit and Humour. Collected and Edited by A.Perceval Graves. Animals and their Masters. By Sir Arthur Helps. Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps. Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry J. Jennings. The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table. By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Il- lustrated by J. Gordon Thomson.CHATTO &■ W1NDUS, PICCADILLY. 17 Mayfair Library, continued- Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume. Pencil and Palette. By R. Kempt. Little Essays : Sketches and Charac- ters. By Chas. Lamb. Selected from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald. Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and Curiosities of the Law and Men of Law. By Jacob Larwood. Theatflcal Anecdotes. By Jacob Larwood. [Leigh. Jeux d'Esprlt. Edited by Henry S. True History of Joshua Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton. Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton. Ourselves: Essays on Women. By E. Lynn Linton. [Macgregor. Pastimes and Players. By Robert The New Paul and Virginia. By W. H. Mallock. New Republic. By W. H. Mallock. Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde- ley-Pennell. Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol- mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by George Du Maurier. Muses of Mayfair Edited by H. Cholmondeley-Pennell. Thoreau: His Life and Aims. By H. A. Page. Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley. More Punlana. By Hon. H. Rowley. The Philosophy of Handwriting. By Don Felix de Salamanca. By Stream and Sea By William Senior. Leaves from a Naturalist's Note- Book. By Dr. Andrew Wilson. Mayhew.—London Characters and the Humorous Side of London Life. By Henry Mayhew. With nume- rous Illusta. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d. Medicine, Family.—One Thou- sand Medical Maxims and Surgical Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies, L.R.CP. Lond. Cr. 8vo, la.; cl., Is. 6d. Menken.—lnfelicia: Poems by Adah Isaacs Menken. A New Edi- tion, with a Biographical Preface, nu- merous Illustrations by F. E. Lummis and F. O. C. Darley, and Facsimile of a Letter from Charles Dickens. Beautifully printed on small 4to ivory paper, with red border to each page, and handsomely bound. Price 7s. 6d. Mexican Mustang (On a), through Texas, from the Gulf to the Rio Grande. A New Book of American Hu- mour. By A. E. Sweet and J. Armoy. Knox, Editors of " Texas Siftings.'* With 2G5 Illusts. Cr.8vo,cl.extra, 7B.6d. Middlemas8 (Jean), Novels by": Post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s. each. Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorllllon. Miller.— Physiology for the Young; or, The House of Life: Hu- man Physiology, with its application to the Preservation of Health Witli numerous Illusts. By Mrs. h. Fenwick Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. Milton (J. L.), Works by: Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each. The Hygiene of the Skin. Rules lor the Management of the Skin; with Directions for Diet, Soaps, Baths,&c. The Bath In Diseases of the Skin-. The Laws of Life, and their Relation to Diseases of the Skin. Minto — Was She Good or Bad ? A Romance. By William Minto. Cr. 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Molesworth (Mrs.), Novels by: Hathercourt Rectory. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 4s.6d. ; post 8vo, illust.bds., 2s. That Girl in Black. Crown 8va„ picture cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Moncrieff. — The Abdication; or, Time Tries All. An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven Etchings by John Pettie, R.A., W. Q. Orchardson, R.A., J, MacWhirter, A.R.A.,Colin Hunter, A.R.A., R. Macbeth, A.R.A., and Tom Graham, R.S.A. Large 4to, bound in buckram, 218. Moore (Thomas).—Prose and Verse, Humorous, Satirical,and Senti- mental, by Thomas Moore; with Sup- pressed Passages from the Memoirs of Lord Byron- Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by R. Herne Shepherd. With Portrait. Cr. 8vo. cl. extra, 7s.6d. Muddock.—Stories Weird and Wonderful. By J.E. Muddock. Authot of '• A Wingless Angel," &c. Post8vo-, illustrated boards, 2s.; cloth, 2s. 6d. Murray (D. Christie), Novels by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo. illustrated boards, 2s. each. A Life's Atonement. IA Model Father. Joseph's Coat. ICoals of Fire. By the Gate of the Sea. Val Strange. | Hearts. A Bit of Human Nature. First Person Singular. Cynic Fortune. The Way of the World. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Old Blazer's Hero. With Three Illus- trations by A. McCormick. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 6s.—Cheaper Edition, post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. One Traveller Returns. By D. Christie Murray and H. Herman Cr. 8vo,cl. ex., 6s. Paul Jones's Alias, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [Preparing*BOOKS PUBLISHED BY i8 Novelists. — Half-Hours with the Best Novelists of the Century : ChoiceReadings from he finest Novels. Edited, with Critical and Biographical Notes, by H. T. Mackenzie Bell. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. [Preparing. Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide in Health and Disease. By N. E. Davies.L.R.C.P. Cr.8vo, Is.; cl., ls.6d. O'Connor.—Lord Beaconsfield: A Biography. By T. P.O'Connor, M.P. Sixth Edition, with a New Preface. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. O'Hanlon (Alice), Novels by: The Unforeseen. Post8vo,illust. bds.,2s. Chance P or Fate? Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. [Preparing. Ohnet. — Doctor Rameau : A Novel. By Georges Ohnet, Author of "The Ironmaster," &c. Translated by Mrs. Cashel Hoey. With 9 Illus- trations by E. Bayard. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by: Whiteladles. With Illustrations by Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. The Primrose Path. The Greatest Heiress in England. O'Reilly.—Phoebe's Fortunes: A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. O'Shaughnessy (A.), Poems by: Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Lays of France. Cr.8vo, cl. ex.,10s. 6d. Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Held In Bondage, Strath more. Chandos Under Two Flags. Cecil Cast Ie- malne's Gage. Idalla. Trlcotrln. Puck. Folle Farlne. TwoLlttleWooden Shoes. A Dog of Flanders. Pascarel. Slgna. I Ariadne. In a Winter City. Friendship. Moths. I Blmbl. Plplstrello. In Maremma. A Village Com- mune. Wanda. Frescoes. Line. Princess Naprax- Othmar. Ouida—continued. Gullderoy: A Novel. 3 vols., crown 8vo. Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected from the Works of Ouida by F. Sydney Morris. Sm.cr.8vo,cl.ex.,6s. Cheaper Edition, illust. bris., 28. Page (H. A.), Works by : Thoreau: His Life and Aims: A Study. With Portrait. Post 8vo,cl.limp,2s.6d. Lights on the Way: Some Tales with- in a Tale. By the late J. H. Alex- ander, B.A. Edited by H. A. Page. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a New Principle. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, Ss. Parliamentary Elections and Electioneering In the Old Days (A History of). Showing the State of Political Parties and Party Warfare at the Hustings and in the House of Commons from the Stuarts to Queen Victoria. Illustrated from the original Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial Satires, and Popular Caricatures of the Time. By Joseph Grego, Author of " Rowlandson and his Works," "The Life of Gillray," &c. A New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and 100 Illus- trations, 7s. 6d. [Preparing. Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New Translation, with Historical In- troduction and Notes, by T. M'Crie, P.P. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. Patient's (The) Vade Mecum: How to get most Benefit from Medical Advice. By W. Knight, M.R.C.S.,and E.Knight.L.R.CP. Cr.8vo,ls.;cl.l/6. Paul Ferroll: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Paul Ferroll: A Novel. Why Paul Ferroll Killed his Wife. Payn (James), Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Lost Sir Massingberd. Walter's Word. Less Black than we're Painted. By Proxy. | High Spirits. Under One Roof. A Confidential Agent. Some Private Views. A Grape from a Thorn. From Exile. | The Canon's Ward. The Talk of the Town. Holiday Tasks. | Glow-worm Tales. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.each. Kit: A Memory. | Carlyon's Year. A Perfect Treasure. Bentlnck's Tutor.; Murphy's Master. The Best of Husbands.CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. ig Payn (James), continued- Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. For Cash Only. What He Cost Her. | Cecil's Tryst. Fallen Fortunes. 1 Halves. A County Family. | At Her Mercy. A Woman's /engeance. The Clyffards of Clyffe. The Family Scapegrace. The Foster Brothers.| Found Dead. Gwendoline's Harvest. Humorous Stories. Like Father, Like Son. A Marine Residence. Married Beneath Him. Two Hundred Pounds Reward. Cfown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each. In Peril and Privation: Stories of Marine Adventure Re-told. With 17 Illustrations. The Mystery of Mirbridge. With a Frontispiece by Arthur Hopkins. Planche (J. R.), Works by: The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Her- aldry Founded upon Facts. Witk Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illus- trations. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879. Edited, with an Introduction, by his Daughter, Mrs. Mackarness. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Poe (Edgar Allan):— The Choice Works, in Prose and Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With an Introductory Essay by Charles Baudelaire, Portrait and Fac- similes. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d. The Mystery of Marie Roget. and other Stories. Post 8vo, illust.bas.,2s. Pope's Poetical Works. Com- plete in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. Praed (Mrs.Campbell-) "The Right Honourable:" A Romance o) Society and Politics. By Mrs. Camp- bell-Praed and Justin McCarthy, M.P. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Paul.—Gentle and Simple. By Margaret Agnes Paul. With a Frontispiece by Helen Paterson. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Pears.—The Present Depres- sion in Trade: Its Causes and Reme- dies. Being the " Pears" Prize Essays (of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin Goadby and William Watt. With an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy 8vo, Is. Price (E. C), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Valentina. | The Foreigners. Mrs. Lancaster's Rival. Gerald. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. Pennell (H. Cholmondeley), Work8 by: Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations. Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full- page Illusts. by G. Du Maurier. The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de Societe, Selected and Edited by H. C. Pennell. Princess Olga—Radna; or, The Great Conspiracy of i88r. By the Princess Olga. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by: Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts. Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the Year, Draw- ings of the Constellations, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Familiar Science Studies. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Saturn and Its System. New and Revised Edition,with 13 Steel Plates. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d. Mysteries of Time and Space. With Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. The Universe of Suns, and other Science Gleanings. With numerous Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d. Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by: Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each. Beyond the Gates. By fhe Author of "The Gates Ajar." An Old Maid's Paradise. Burglars In Paradise. Jack the Fisherman. With Twenty- two Illustrations by C. W. Reed. Cr. 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cl. Is. 6d. Pirkis (C. L.), Novels by: Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. Lady Lovelace. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men. Translated from the Greek, with Notes Critical and Historical, and a Life of Plutarch, by John and William La-nghorne. Two Vols., 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d. Rambosson.—Popular Astro- nomy. By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated by C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, numerous Illusts., and a beautifully executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.10 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Reade (Charles), Novels by: Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated,3s.6d. each ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each. Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L. Fildes, A.R.A. Christie Johnstone. Illustrated by William Small. It is Never Too Late to Mend. Il- lustrated by G. T. Pinwell. The Course of True Love Never did run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen Paterson. The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack of allTrades; and James Lambert. Illustrated by Matt Stretch. Love me Little, Love me Long. Il- lustrated by M. Ellen Edwards. The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir ]ohn Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene. The Cloister and the Hearth. Il- lustrated by Charles Keene. Hard Cash. I'lust. by F. W. Lawson. Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L. Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small. Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier. Put Yourself In His Place. Illus- trated by Robert Barnes. A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper. The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by H. Paterson, S. L. Fildes, A.R.A., C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A. A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate Crauford. [Couldery. A Woman-Hater. Illust. by Thos. Singleheart and Doubleface: A Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated by P. Macnab. Good Stories of Men and other Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey, Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash. The JI It, and other Stones. Illustrated by Joseph Nash. Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait of Charles Reade. Gible Characters: Studies of David, Nehemiah, Jonah, Paul, &c. Fcap. 8vo, leatherette, Is. Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References, Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Fifth Edition, revised throughout, with a New Appendix, containing a Complete English Bibliography. Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Richardson. — A Ministry of Health, and other Papers. By Ben- jamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Riddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by: Rimmer (Alfred), Works by: Square 8vo. cloth eilt. 7s. 6d. each. Robinson (F. W.), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Women are Strange. The Hands of Justice. Robinson (Phil), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. The Poets' Birds. The Poets' Beasts. The Poets and Nature: Reptiles, Fishes, and Insects. [Preparing. Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral Reflections. With Notes, and an Introductory Essay by Sainte- Beuve. Post 8vo, cloth liuip, 2s. Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy with Wil- liam the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours. Handsomely printed, Ss. Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With numerous Illustrations. More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated. Runclman (James), Stories by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Skippers and Shellbacks. Grace Balmalgn's Sweetheart Schools and Scholars. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Her Mother's Darling. The Prince of Wales's Garden Party. Weird Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. The Uninhabited House. Fairy Water. The Mystery In Palace Gardens. Our Old Country Towns. With over 50 Illustrations. Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. With 50 Illustrations. About England with Dickens. With 58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer andC. A. Vanderhoof.21 CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. Russell (W. Clark), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Round the Galley-Fire. In the Middle Watch A Voyage to the Cape. A Book for the Hammock. On the Fo'k'sle Head. Post 8vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. The Mystery of the "Ocean Star, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. The Romance of Jenny Harlowe, and Sketches of Maritime Life. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [Shortly. Sala— Gaslight and Daylight. By George Augustus Sala,. Post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s. Sanson.—Seven Generations of Executioners: Memoirs of the Sanson Family (16SS to 1847)- Edited by Henry San son. Cr.8vo,cl.ex. 3s 6a. Saunders (John), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Bound to the Wheel. Guy Waterman. I Lion In the Path. The Two Dreamers. Saunders (Katharine), Novels by Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Margaret and Elizabeth. The High Mills. Heart Salvage. | Sebastian. Joan Merryweather. Post 8vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Gideon's Rock. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. Science-Gossip for 1889: An Illustrated Medium of Interchange for Students and Lovers of Nature. Edited by Dr. J. E.Taylor, F.L.S..&C Devoted to Geology, Botany, Phy- siology, Chemistry, Zoology, Micros- copy, Telescopy, Physiography, &c. Price 4d, Monthly ; or 5s. per year, post free. Vols. I. to XIX. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and Vols. XX. to date, at 53. each. Cases for Binding, Is. 6d. each. Seguin (L. G.), Works by : Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each. The Country of the Passicn Play, and the Highlands and Highlanders of Bavaria. With Map and 37 Illusts. Walkc In Algiers and its Surround- ings. With 2 Maps and 16 Ulusts. "Secret Out" Series, The: Cr. Svo, cl.ex., Illusts., 4s. 6d. each. The Secret Out: One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and other Re- creations ; with Entertaining Experi- ments in Drawing-room or White Magic." BvW.H.Cremer. 30oIllusts. The Art of Amusing: A Collection of Graceful Arts,Games,Tncks,Puzzles, and Charades By Frank Bellew. With 300 Illustrations. Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic, Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations. Magician's Own Book: Performances with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual Experience. Edited by W. H. Cre- mer. 200 Illustrations. Senior.—By Stream and Sea. By W.Senior. Post 8vo,cl.limp, 28.61. Seven Sagas (The) of Prehis- toric Man. By James H. Stoddart, Author of •' The Village Life." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Shakespeare: The First Folio Shakespeare.—Mr. William Shakespeare's Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true Originall Copies London, Printed by Isaac Iaggard and Ed. Blount. 1623.—A Repro- duction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile, by a photogra- phic process—ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo, half-Roxburghe, 7s. 6d. The Lansdowne Shakespeare. Beau- tifully printed in red and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of Droeshout s Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s. Sharp.—Children of To-mor- row: A Novel. By William Sharp. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Sheridan(General).—Personal Memoirs of General P. H. Sheridan : The Romantic Career of a Great Soldier, told in his Own Words. With 22 Portraits and other Illustrations, 27 Maps and numerous Facsimiles of Famous Letters. Two Vols, of 500 pages each, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 22 Shelley—TheCompleteWorks In Verse and Prose of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Edited, Prefaced and Anno- tated byR. Herne Shepherd. Five Vols., cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 3s. 6d. each. Poetical Works, in Three Vols. Vol. I An Introduction by the Editor; The Posthumous Fragments of Margaret Nichol- son ; Shelley's Correspondence with Stock- dale; 1 he Wandering Jew (the only complete versio»)j Queen Mab, with the Notes; Alastor, and other Poems; Rosalind ano! Helen ; Prometheus Unbound ; Adonais, &c. V?' ,IIi .Laon and Cythna (as originally pub- lished, instead of the emasculated " Revolt of Islam); The Cenci; Julian and Maddalo (Irom Shelley's manuscript]; Swellfoot the lyrant (from the copy in the Dyce Library at South Kensington); The Witch of Atlas; Epipsychidion; Hellas. V»'; Posthumous Poems, published by Mrs. SHELLEY in 1824 and 1839; The Masque of Anarchy [from Shelley's manuscript); and other Pieces not brought together in the ordi- nary editions. Prose Works, in Two Vols. Vol. I. The Two Romances of Zastrozzi and St. Irvyne ; the Dublin and Marlow Pamphlets • A Refutation of Deism ; Letters to Leigh Hunt and some Minor W ritings and Fragments. n\ The Essays; Letters from Abroad; Translations and Fragments, Edited by Mrs. Shelley, and first published in 1840, with the addition of some Minor Pieces of great interest and rarity, including one recently discovered by Professor DOWDEN. With a Bibliography of Shelley, and an exhaustive Index of the Prose Works. Sheridan:— Sheridan's Complete Works, with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations, Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full- page Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals, and The School for Scandal. Edited, with an Introduction and Notes to each Play, and a Bio- graphical Sketch of Sheridan, by Brander Matthews. With Decora- tive Vignettes and 10 full-page Illusts. Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete Poetical Works, including all those in "Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial- Introduction, Notes, &c, by the Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth boards, 183. Signboards: Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable Characters. By Jacob Larwood and John Camden Hotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d. Sims (George R.), Works by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Rogues and Vagabonds. The Ring o' Bells. Mary Jane's Memoirs. Mary Jane Married. Tales of To-day. IShortly. Ct. 8vo, picture cover, ls.ea.; cl., ls.6d.ea. The Dagonet Reciter and Reader: Being Readings and Recitations in Prose and Verse, selected from his own Works by G. R. Sims. How the Poor Live; and Horrible London. In One Volume. Sister Dora : A Biography. By Margaret Lonsdale. Popular Edi- tion, Revised, with additional Chap- ter, a New Dedication and Preface, and Four Illustrations. Sq. 8vo, pic- ture cover, 4d.; cloth, 6d. Sketchley.—A Match in the Dark. By Arthur Sketchley. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Slang Dictionary, The: Ety- mological, Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d. Smith (J. Moyr), Works by : The Prince of Argolls: A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.' Tales of Old Thule. With numerous Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s. The Wooing of the Water Witch. With Illustrations. Small 8vo, 6s. Society in London. By A Foreign Resident. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Society out of Town. By A Foreign Resident, Author of " So- ciety in London." Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [Preparing. Society in Paris: The Upper Ten Thousand. By Count PaulVasili. Trans, by Raphael Ledos de Beau- fort. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. [Preparing. Somerset.—Songs of Adieu. By Lord Henry Somerset, Small 4to, Japanese vellum, 6s. SpeighF(T7W.), Novels byf~ The Mysteries of Heron Dyke With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s. Wife or No Wife? Cr. 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. A Barren Title. Crown 8vo,cI., Is. 6d. The Golden Hoop. Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. By Devious Ways; and A Barren Title. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.CHATTO WINDUS, PICCADILLY. 23 Spalding.-Elizabethan Demon- ology : An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and the Powers possessed by Them. By T. A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr.8vo,cl. ex., 5s Spenser for Children. By M. H. Towry. With Illustrations by Walter ]. Morgan. Crown 4^0, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s. Stageland : Curious Habits and Customs of its Inhabitants. By Jerome K. Jerome. With 64 Illustrations by J. Bernard Partridge. Fcap. 4to, illustrated cover, 3s. 6d. Staunton.—Laws and Practice of Chess. With an Analysis of the Openings. By Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B. Wormald. Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. Stedman (E. C), Works by: Victorian Poets. Thirteenth Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 9s. The Poets of America. Crown 3vo, cloth extra, 93. Sterndale.—The Afghan Knife: A Novel. By Robert Armitage Stern- dale. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6(J.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Stevenson (R.Louis),Works by: Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each. Travels with a Donkey In the Cevennes. Sixth Edition. With a Frontispiece by Walter Crane. An Inland Voyage. Third Edition. WithFrontispiece by WalterCrane. Cr. Svo, buckram extra, gilt top, 6s. each. Familiar Studies of Men and Books. Third Edition. The Silverado Squatters. With Frontispiece. The Merry Men. Second Edition. Underwoods: Poems. Fourth Edit. Memories &. Portraits. Second Ed. Virginibus Puerisque, and other Papers. Fourth Edition. Cr. 8vo, buckram extra, gilt top, 6s. each ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each. New Arabian Nights. Tenth Edition, Prince Otto: Sixth Edition. St. John.—A Levantine Family. By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illus- trated boards, 2s. Stoddard.—Summer Cruising In the South Seas. By Charles Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis Mackay. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d. Stories from Foreign Novel- Ists. With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice Zim- mern. Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. Strange Manuscript (A) found In a Copper Cylinder. With 19 full- page Illustrations by Gilbert Gaul. Third Edition. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 5s. Strange Secrets. Told by Percy Fitzgerald, Florence Mar- ryat, James Grant, A. Conan Doyle, Dutton Cook, and others. With 8 Illustrations by Sir John Gilbert, William Small, W. J. Hennessy, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Strutt's Sports and Pastimes of the People cf England; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May Games, Mummeries, Shows, &c, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited by Wm.Hone. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s.6d. Suburban Homes (The) of London: A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society, Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,and House Accommodation. With Map of Suburban London. Cr.8vo.cl.ex.,7s 6d. Swift's Choice Works, in Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the Maps in tha Original Edition of " Gulliver's Travels." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. Swinburne (Algernon C), Works by: Selections from the Poetical Work3 of Algernon Charles Swinburne. Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Atalanta In Calydon. Crown 8vo, 6s. Chastelard. ATragedy. Cr. 8vo, 73. Poems and Ballads. First Series. Cr. 8vo, 9s. Fcap. 8vo, same price. Poems and Ballads. Second Series. Cr. 8vo, 9S. Fcap. 8vo, same price. Poems and Ballads. Third Series. Crown 8vo, 7s. Noteson Poems and Reviews. 8vo,ls. Songs before Sunrise. Cr.8vo, 10s.6d. Both well: ATragedy. Cr. 8vo,12s.6d. George Chapman : An Essay. (See Vol. It, of Geo. Chapman's Works.) Crown 8vo, Gs. Songs of Two Nations. Cr. 8vo, 6s. Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s. Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 6s. Songs of the Springtides. Cr.8vo,6s. Studies In Song. Crown 8vo. 7s. Mary Stuart: A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 83. Tristram of Lyonesse, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s. ACentury of Roundels. Small 4to, 8s. A Midsummer Holiday, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s. Marino Fallero: ATragedy. Cr.8vo,6s. A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo, 6s. Miscellanies. Crown 8vo, 12s. I Locrine: ATragedy, Crown8vo,63,2-1 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Symonds.—Wine, Women, and Song: Mediaeval Latin Students' Songs. Now first translated into Eng- lish Verse, with Essay by J. Addington Symonds. Small 8vo, parchment, 6a. j Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours: In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search of a Wife. With the whole of Rowland- son's droll page Illustrations in Colours and a Life of the Author by J. C. Hqtten. Med. 8vo, cloth extra, 7a. 6(1. Taine's History of English Literature. Translated by Henry Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo, cloth boards, 30s.—Popular Edition, Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s. Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions of the Echo Club: Burlesques of Modem Writers. Post 8vo, el. limp, 28. Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works by. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each. The Sagacity and Morality of Plants: A Sketch of the Life and Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom. ColouredFrontispiece and ioo Illust. Our Common British Fossils, and Where to Find Them: A Handbook for Students. With 331 Illustrations. The Playtime Naturalist. With 366 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s. Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas: "Clancarty," "Jeanne Dare,'"' 'Twixt Axe and Crown, '" The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," "Anne Boleyn," "Plot and Passion.'1 One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. %* The Plays may also be had sepa- rately, at Is. each. Tennyson (Lord): A Biogra- phical Sketch. By H. J. Jennings. With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Thackerayana: Notes and Anec- dotes. Illustrated by Hundreds of Sketches by William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his every-day reading'. With Coloured Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d. Thames.—A New Pictorial His- tory of the Thames, from its Source Downwards. A Book for all Boating Men and for all Lovers of the River. With over 300 Illusts. Post 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cloth, la. 6d. [Preparing. Thomas (Bertha), Novels by : Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Cresslda. I Proud Malsle. The Violin-Player Thomas (M.).—A Fight for Life: A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post 8vo. illustrated boards, 2s. j Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence. With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustra- tions on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. Thornbury (Walter).Works by: Timbs (John), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. The History of Clubs and Club Life In London. With Anecdotes of its Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. With many Illusts. English Eccentrics and Eccen- tricities: Stories of Wealth and Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men of Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts Trollope (Anthony), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. The Way We Live Now. Kept in the Dark. Frau Frohmann. | Marlon Fay. Mr. Scarborough's Family. The Land-Leaguers. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. The Golden Lion of Granpere. John Caldlgate. | American Senator Trollope(FrancesE.),Novels by Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Like Ships upon the Sea. Mabel's Progress. I Anne Furness. Trollope (T. A.).—Diamond Cut Diamond, and other Stories. By T. Adolphus Trollope. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 28. Trowbridge".—Farnell's Folly: A Novel. By J. T.Trowbridge. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. Haunted London. Edited by Ed- ward Walford, M.A. With Illus- trations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. The Life and Correspondence of J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow Academicians. With numerous Illusts. in Colours, facsimiled from Turner's Original Drawings. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Old Stories Re-told. Tales for the Marines.25 CHATTO & IVINDUS, PICCADILLY. T.irgenieff. — Stories from j Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Turge- I nieff, and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated boards. 2s. Tytler (C. C. Fraser-). — Mis- tress Judith: A Novel. By C. C. Fraser-Tytler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. boards, 23. Tytler- (Sarah), Novels by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. What She Came Through. The Bride's Pass. | Noblesse Oblige. Saint Mungo's City. | Lady Bell. Beauty and the Beast. Citoyenne Jacqueline. Buried Diamonds. Pest Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Disappeared. 1 TheHuguenotFamily The Blackhall Ghosts: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. Van Laun.— History of French Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds., 7a. 6d. each. vTllarT.—A Double Bond. By L. V1 llari. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. t\al'ord (Edw.,M.A.),Worksby: The County Families of the United Kingdom (1889). Containing Notices of the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c, of more than 12,000 distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presump- tive, the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country Ad- dresses, Clubs, &c. Twenty-ninth Annual Edition. Cloth gilt, 50s. The Shilling Peerage (1889). Con- taining an Alphabetical List of the House of Lords, Dates of Creation, Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers, Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is. The Shilling Baronetage (1889). Containing an Alphabetical List ot the Baronets of the United Kingdom, short Biographical Notices, Dates of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,lS. The Shilling Knightage (1889). Con- taining an Alphabetical List of the Knights of the United Kingdom, short Biographical Notices, Dates of Creation, Addresses,&c. 32mo,cl.,ls. The Shilling House of Commons (1889). Containing List of all Mem- bers of Parliament, their Town and Country Addresses, &c. 32mo, cl., Is. The Complete Peerage, Baronet- age, Knightage, and House of Commons (1889). In One Volume, royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s. Haunted London. By WalterThorn- bury. Edit, by Edward Walford, M.A. Illusts. by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Walton andCotton'sComplete Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation; being a Discourse of Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and In- structions how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris Nicolas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, cloth antique, 7s. 6d. Walt Whitman, Poems by. Selected and edited, with an Intro- duction, by William M. Rossetti. A New Edition, with a Steel Plate Por- trait. Crown 8vo, printed on hand- made paper and bound in buckram, 6s. Wanderer's Library, The: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each. Wanderings In Patagonia; or, Life among the Ostrich-Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated. Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and Adventure in Asia, Africa, and America. By Frederick Boyle. Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle. Merrie England In the Olden Time. By George Daniel. With Illustra- tions by Robt. Cruikshank. Circus Life and Circus Celebrities. By Thomas Frost. The Lives of the Conjurers. By Thomas Frost. The Old Showmen and the Old London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. Low-Life Deeps. An Account of the Strange Fish to be found there. By James Greenwood. The Wilds of London. By James Greenwood. Tunis: The Land and the People. By the Chevalier de Hesse-War- tegg. With 22 Illustrations. The Life and Adventures of a Cheap Jack. By One of the Fraternity. Edited by Charles Hindley. The World Behind the Scenes By Percy Fitzgerald. Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: Including the Origin of Signs, and Reminiscences connected with Ta- verns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. By Charles Hindley. With Illusts. The Genial Showman: Life and Ad- ventures of Artemus Ward. ByE. P. Hingston. With a Frontispiece. The Story of the London Parks. By Jacob Larwood. With Illusts. London Characters. By Henry May- hew. Illustrated. Seven Generations of Executioners: Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson. Summer Cruising In the South Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard. Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.26 Warner.—A Roundabout Jour- ney. By Charles Dudley Warner Author of" My Summer in a Garden » Crown 8yo^ cloth extra, 63. Warrants, &c. :— Warrant to Execute Charles I. An exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine Signatures, and corresponding Seals. Carefully printed op paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. Dy 14 in. Price 2s. Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots. An exast Facsimile, includ- ing the Signature of Queen Eliza- beth, and a Facsimile of the Great Seal. Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s. Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum, printed on fine elate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours 5s The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours. Price 5s. Wayfarer, The: Journar6flhe Society of Cyclists. Published at in- tervals. Price Is. The Numbers for Oct., 1S86, Jan., May, and Oct., 1887, and Feb., 1888, are now ready. Weather, How to Foretell the, with the Pocket Spectroscope. By F. W. Cory, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met. Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d. Westropp.—Handbook of Pot- tery and Porcelain; or, History ot those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Hodder M. Westropp. With nu- merous Illustrations, and a List 01 Marks. Crown 8vo. cloth limp, 4s. bd. Whist. — How to Play Solo Whist: Its Method and Principles Explained, and its Practice Demon- strated. With Illustrative Specimen Hands in red and black, and a Revised and Augmented Code of Laws. By Abraham S. Wilks and Charles F. Pardon. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. W hist I e r's (Mr.) "Ten o'clock?' Crown 8vo, hand-made and brown paper, la. Williams (W. Mattieu, F.R.A.S.), Works by: Science In Short Chapters. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d. The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R S E \ Works by: h Chapters on Evolution: A Popular History of Darwinian and Allied Iheonesof Development. 3rd ed. Cr.8vo,cl. ex.,with 259 Illusts., 7s 6d. Leaves from a Naturalist's Note- book. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Bio- logical. Third Edit., with New Pre- c* Sf- C,r'8vo' cl-ex - with Illusts., Cs. Studies In Life and Sense. With numerous Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex , 6s Common Accidents, and How to Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wil- son and others. With numerous II- lusts. Cr. 8vo, Is.; cl. limp, Is. 6d. Winter (J. S.), Stories by: Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s each Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends. Witch, Warlock.and Magician : A Popular History of Magic and Witch- ?>r,afJ,IIkEngland and Scotland. By W. H. Davenport Adams. Demy8vo cloth extra, 12s. [Shortly. Women of the Day: A Biogra- phical Dictionary of Notable Contem- poraries. By Frances Hays. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s. Wood.—Sabina: A Novel. By Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. Wood(H.F.), Detective Stories: The Passenger from Scotland Yard. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.; post8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. The Englishman of the Rue Cain. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j. Wool ley.—Rachel Armstrong : or, Love and Theology. By Celia Parker Woolley. Post 8vo, illus- trated boards. 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 61. Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-oi-the-Way Matters. By Euezsr Edwards. New and cheaper issue, cr. 8vo,cl. ex.,7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s. Wright (Thomas), Works by: Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each. Caricature History of the Georges. (The House of Hanover.) With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broad- sides, Window Pictures, &c. Hl6tory of Caricature and of the Grotesque In Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely Illustrated by F.W. Fairholt.F.S.A. Yates (Edmund), Novels by : Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. Land at Last. I T he Forlorn Hope.27 CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY. NEW NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES. The Tents of Shem. By Grant Allen. 3 Vols., crown 8vo. Blood-Money, and other Stories. By Charles Gibbon. 2 Vols., crown 8vo. Gutlderoy. By Ouida. 3 Vols., crown 8vo. The Englishman of the Rue Cain. By H. F. Wood. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Romances of the Law. By R. E. Francillon. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Strange Secrets. Told by Percy Fitz- gerald, &c. With 8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Doctor Rameau. By Georges Ohnet. Nine Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Children of To morrow. By William Sharp. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ■NIkanor. From the French ot Hknrv Greville. With Eight Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. Mr. Stranger's Sealed Packet. By Hugh MacColl. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Ss. THE PICCAD Popular Stories by the Best Authors. crown 8vo, cloth BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HERRING.1: Red Spider. I Eve. BY GRANT ALLEN. Phlllstia. For Maimle' Sake. The Devil's Die. BY WALTER BESANT & J. RICE. Ready-Money Mortlboy. My Little Girl. The Case of Mr. Lucraft. This Son of Vulcan. With Harp and Crown. The Golden Butterfly. By Celia's Arbour. The Monks of Thelema. Twas In Trafalgar's Bay. The Seamy Side. The Ten Years' Tenant. The Chaplain of the Fleet. BY WALTER BESANT. Ail Sorts and Conditions of Men. The Captains' Room. All In a Garden Fair. Dorothy Forster. | Uncle Jack. Children of Glbeon. The World Went Very Well Then. Herr Paulus. For Faith and Freedom. BY ROBERT BUCHANAN. A Child of Nature. God and the Man. The Shadow of the Sword. The Martyrdom of Madeline. Love Me for Ever. Annan Water. I The New Abelard Matt. I Foxglove Manor. The Master of the Mine. The Heir of Llnne. BY HALL CAINE. The Shadow of a Crime. A Son of Hagar. | The Deemster. BY MRS. H. LOVETT CAMERON. Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever. ILLY NOVELS. Library Editions, many Illustrated, extra, 3s. 6d. each. BY MORTIMER COLLINS. Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration. From Midnight to Midnight. MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS. Blacksmith and Scholar. The Village Comedy. You Play me False. BY WILKIE COLLINS. The Law and the Lady. TheTwo Destinies Haunted Hotel. The Fallen Leaves Jezebel'sDaughter The Black Robe. Heart and Science " I Say No." Little Novels. The Evil Genius. The Legacy of Cain. Antonlna. Basil. Hide and Seek. The Dead Secret Queen of Hearts. My Miscellanies. Woman in White. The Moonstone. Man and Wife. Poor Miss Finch. Miss or Mrs. ? New Magdalen. The Frozen Deep. BY BUTTON COOK. Paul Foster's Daughter. BY WILLIAM CYPLES. Hearts of Gold. BY ALPHONSE DAUDET. The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation. BY JAMES DE MILLE. A Castle in Spain. BY J. LEITH DERWENT. Our Lady of Tears. Circe's Lovers. BY M. BETHAM-EDWARDS. Felicia. BY MRS. ANNIE EDWARDES. Archie Lovell. BY PERCY FITZGERALD. Fatal Zero. BY R. E. FRANCILLON. QueenCophetua. I A Real Queen One by One. | King or Knave P Prefaced by Sir BARTLE FRERB. Pandurang Harl.BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 2S Piccadilly Novels, continued— BY EDWARD GARRETT. The Capel Girls. BY CHARLES GIBBON. Robin Gray. What will the World Say? In Honour Bound. Queen of the Meadow. The Flower of the Forest. A Heart's Problem. The Braes of Yarrow. The Golden Shaft. Of High Degree. Loving a Dream. BY THOMAS HARDY. Under the Greenwood Tree. BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE. Garth. E11 ice Quentln. Sebastian Strome. Dust. Fortune's Fool. Beatrix Randolph. David Poindexter's Disappearance The Spectre of the Camera. BY SIR A. HELPS. Ivan de Blron. BY ISAAC HENDERSON. Agatha Page. BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT Thornlcroft's Model. The Leaden Casket. Self-Condemned. That other Person. BY JEAN INGE LOW. Fated to be Free. BY R. ASHE KING. A Drawn Game. "The Wearing of the Green." BY HENRY KINGSLEY. Number Seventeen. BY E. LYNN LINTON. Patricia Kemball. Atonement of Learn Dundas. The World Well Lost. Under which Lord ? "My Love I" lone. Paston Carew. BY HENRY W. LUCY. Gideon Fleyce. by justin McCarthy. The Waterdale Neighbours. A Fair Saxon. Dear Lady Disdain. Vllss Misanthrope. 7>onna Quixote. The Comet of a Season. Maid of Athens. Camlola. BY MRS. MACDONELL. Quaker Cousins. Piccadilly Novels ,centinued— BY FLORENCE MARRY AT. Open! Sesame! | Written In Fira BY D. CHRISTIE MURRA Y. Life's Atonement. Coals of Fire. Joseph's Coat. Val Strange. A Model Father. Hearts. By the Gate of the Sea. A Bit of Human Nature. First Person Singular. Cynic Fortune. BY ALICE O'HANLON. Chance or Fate ? BY MRS. OLIPHANT. Whlteladles. BY QUID A. Held In Bondage. Strathmore. Chandos. Under Two Flags. Idalia. Cecil Castle- maine's Gage. Tricotrin. Puck. Folle Farine. ADog of Flanders Pascarel. Signa. [ine. Princess Naprax- BY MARGARET A. PAUL Gentle and Simple. BY JAMES PAYN. TwoLittleWooden Shoes. In a Winter City. Ariadne. Friendship. Moths. Pipistrello. A Village Com- mune. Bimbi. Wanda. Frescoes. In Maremma Othmar. Lost Sir Masslng- berd. Walter's Word. Less Black than We're Painted. By Proxy. High Spirits. Under One Roof. A Confidential Agent. From Exile. A* Grape from a Thorn. Some Private Views. TheCanon'sWard. Talk of the Town. Glow-worm Tales. In Peril and Pri- vation. Holiday Tasks. The Mystery of Mirbridge. BY E. C. PRICE. Valentlna. I The Foreigners. Mrs. Lancaster's Rival. BY CHARLES READE. It Is Never Too Late to Mend. Hard Cash. I Peg Wofflngton. Christie Johnstone. Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play. The Double Marriage. Love Me Little, Love Me Long. The Cloister and the Hearth. The Course of True Love The Autobiography of a Thief. Put Yourself In His Place. A Terrible Temptation The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton. A Woman-Hater. I Readlana. Slngleheart and Doubleface. The Jilt. Good Stories of Men and othei* Animals.29 CHATTO &• WINDUS, PICCADILLY. Piccadilly Novels, continued— BY MRS. J. H. RIDDELL. Her Mother's Darling. Prince of Wales's Garden-Party. Weird Stories. BY F. W. ROBINSON. Women are Strange. The Hands of Justice. BY JOHN SAUNDERS. Bound to the WheeL Guy Waterman. | Two Dreamers- The Lion In the Path. BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS. Margaret and Elizabeth. Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage. The High Mills. | Sebastian. BY T. W. SPEIGHT. The Mysteries of Heron Dyke. BY R. A. STERNDALE. The Afghan Knife. BY BERTHA THOMAS. Proud Malsle. | Cresslda. the Violin-Player CHEAP EDITIONS OF Post 8vo, illustrated BY THE A UTHOR OF " M EH A LA H." Red Spider. BY EDMOND ABOUT. The Fellah. BY HAMILTON AWE. Carr of Carrlyon. | Confidences BY MRS. ALEXANDER Maid, Wife, or Widow? Valerie's Fate. BY GRAN7 ALLlUH. Strange Stories. Philistia. Babylon. In all Shades. The Beckoning Hand. For Maimie's Sake. BY SHELSLEY BEAUCHAMP. Grantley Grange. BY WALTER BESANT & J. RICE Ready-Money Mortlboy. With Harp and Crown. This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl. The Case of Mr. Lucraft. The Golden Butterfly. By Celia's Arbour The Monks of Thelema. 'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay. The Seamy Side. The Ten Years' Tenant. The Chaplain of the Fleet. BY WALTER BESANT. All Sorts and Conditions of Men. The Captains' Room. All In a Garden Fair. Dorothy Forster. Uncle Jack. Children of Gibeon. The World Went Very Well Then. Piccadilly Novels, continued— BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS. The Way we Live Now. Frau Frohmann I Marion Fay. Kept in the Dark Mr. Scarborough's Family. The Land-Leaguers. BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE. Like Ships upon the Sea. Anne Furness. | Mabel's Progress. BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c. Stories from Foreign Novelists. BY SARAH TYTLER. What She Came Through. The Bride's Pass. | Saint Mungo's City. Beauty and the Beast. Noblesse Oblige. Citoyenne Jacqueline. Lady Bell. | Buried Diamonds. The Blackhall Ghosts. BY C. C. FRASER-TYTLER. Mistress Judith. POPULAR NOVELS. boards, 2s. each. BY FREDERICK BOYLE. Camp Notes. | Savage Life. Chronicles of No-man's Land. BY BRET HARTE. An Heiress of Red Dog. The Luck of Roaring Camp. Callfornlan Stories. Gabriel Conroy. | Flip. Maruja. | A Phyllis of the SIerra9. A Waif of the Plains. BY HAROLD BRYDGES. uncle Sam at Home. BY ROBERT BUCHANAN. The Shadow of The Martyrdom the Sword. A Child of Nature. God and the Man. Love Me for Ever. Foxglove Manor. of Madeline. Annan Water. The New Abelard. Matt. The Heirof Linna The Master of the Mine. BY HALL CAINE. The Shadow of a Crime. A Son of Hagar. | The Deemster. BY COMMANDER CAMERON. The Cruise of the " Black Prince." BY MRS. LOVETT CAMERON Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian. BY MACLAREN COBBAN. The Cure of Souls. BY C. ALLSTON COLLINS. The'Bar Sinister. BY WILKIE COLLINS. Antonlna. Basil. Hide and Seek. The Dead Secret. Queen of Hearts. My Miscellanies. Woman In White. The Moonstone. Man and Wife Poor Mlse Finch.?2 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO &■ WINDUS. Cheap Popular Novels, continued— BY JAMES RUNC1MAN. Skippers and Shellbacks Grace Balmalgn's Sweetheart. Schools and Scholars. BY W. CLARK RUSSELL Round the Galley Fire. On the Fo'k'sle Head. Sn the Middle Watch. A Voyage to the Cape- A Book for the Hammock. BY BAYLE ST. JOHN. A Levantine Family. BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA. Gaslight and Daylight. BY JOHN SAUNDERS. Bound to the Wheel. Guy Waterman. | Two Dreamers. The Lion In the Path. BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS. ooan Merryweather. | The High Mills. Margaret and Elizabeth. Heart Salvage. | Sebastian. BY GEORGE R. SIMS. Rogues and Vagabonds. The Ringo' Bells. | Mary Jane Married. Mary Jane's Memoirs. Tales of To day. BY ARTHUR SKETCHLEY. A Match In the Dark. BY T. W. SPEIGHT. The Mysteries of Heron Dyke. TheGolden Hoop. 1 By Devious Ways. BY R. A. STERN DALE. The Afghan Knife. BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON. New Arabian Nights. | Prince Otto. BY BERTHA THOMAS. Cressida. | Proud Malsle. The Violin-Player. BY W. MOY THOMAS. A Fight for Life. BY WALTER THORN BURY. Tales for the Marines. Oid Stories Re-told. BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE. Diamond Cut Diamond. BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE. The Way We Live Now. The American Senator. Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay. Kept In the Dark. Mr. Scarborough's Family. The Land-Leaguers.I John Caldigato The Golden Lion of Granpere. By F. ELEANOR TROLLOPE. Like Ships upon the Sea. Anne Furness. I Mabel's Progress. BY J.T. TROWBRIDGE. Darnell's Folly. _ . BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c. Stories from Foreign Novelists. Cheap Popular Novels, continued— BY MARK TWAIN. Tom Sawyer. | A Tram o Abroad The Stolen White Elephant. APIeasure Trip on the Continent. Huckleberry Finn. ' [of Europe. Life on the Mississippi. The Prince and the Pauper. BY C. C. FRASER-TYTLER. Mistress Judith. BY SARAH TYTLER. What She Came Through. The Bride's Pass.l Buried Diamonds Saint Mungo's City. Beauty and the Beast. Lady Bell. | Noblesse Oblige. Citoyenne Jacqueline I Disappeared The Huguenot Family. BY J. S. WINTER. Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends. BY H. F. WOOD. The Passenger from Scotland Yard. BY LADY WOOD. Sab In a. BY CELIA PARKER WOOLLEY. Rachel Armstrong; or.Love&Tbeology. BY EDMUND YATES. The Forlorn Hope. | Land at Last. ANONYMOUS. Paul Ferroll. Why Paul Ferroll Killed his Wife. POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS. Jeff Brlggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. [Ditto. The Twins of Table Mountain. By A Day's Tour. By Percy Fitzgerald. Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne. A Dream and a Forgetting. By ditto. A Romance of the Queen's Hounds. By Charles James. Trooping with Crows. ByC. L. Pirkis The Professor's Wife. By L.Graham. A Double Bond. By Linda Villari. Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon. The Garden that Paid the Rent By Tom Jerrold. Curly. By John Coleman. Illus- trated by J. C. Dollman. Beyond the Gates. By E. S. PHEi.rs Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S. Phelps. Burglars In Paradise. ByE.S.Phelps. Jack the Fisherman. ByE.S.Phelps. Our Sensation Novel. Edited by Iustin H. McCarthy, M.P. Dolly. By ditto. [worth. That Girl in Black. By Mrs. Moles- Was She Good or Bad? ByW.MiNTO. Bible Characters. By Chas. Reade. TheDagonet Reciter. By G. R. Sims. How the Poor Live. By G. R. Sims. Wife or No Wife ? By T. W. Speight, OG DEN AND CO. LIMITED. PRINTERS. GREAT SAFFRON HILL, B.C./