£ ENTIFIC -ilNTCAL BOOKSELLER, 231a, Gray's Inn Road, LONDON, W.C. Digitized by the Internet Archive Mechanical Engineering, Ship Building1 and Navigation, Electricity in all its Branches. Sanitation ana! 1 ’ iter Supply. Letterpress Printing?, talogik opjH o supplied free. 1 1 ^ All Books advertised in this Book are stock- ed and can be supplied by pie at Advertised Prices. .aT luilding, model Making? of every Description. Gas and Oil Engines. BOOK IFOR ALL TBABEP. https://archive.org/details/b2804820922900068656Med K10307 RECIPES FOR THE MILLIONTHE KITCHEN LIBRARY THE NATIONAL COOK-BOOK: A thousand Recipes carefully prepared in the light of the Latest Methods of Cooking and Serving. By Marion Harland and Christine Terhune Herrick. Large Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. THE CENTURY COOK-BOOK. Con- taining directions for Cooking in its various branches, from the simplest forms to high- class dinners and ornamental pieces. By Mary Ronald. Fully illustrated. 600 pages. Demy 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. LUNCHEONS: A COOK'S PICTURE- BOOK. A Supplement to the “ Century Cook-Book.” By Mary Ronald. Illus- trated with over 200 photographs. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. net. “ PLEASE, M'M, THE BUTCHER I" A Complete Guide to Catering for the Housewife of Moderate Means, with Menus of all Meals for one year, numerous Recipes, and fifty-two additional Menus of Dinners without Meat. By Beatrice Guarra- cino. Fully illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. net. RECIPES FOR THE MILLION. A handy book for the Household. Twelfth Thousand. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. THE CENTURY INVALID COOK- BOOK. By Mary A. Boland. Edited by Mrs. Humphrey (“ Madge ” of Truth). Paper Covers, is. THE QUICKEST GUIDE TO BREAK FAST, DINNER, AND SUPPER. Paper Boards, is. T. FISHER UNWIN, LONDON.RECIPES FOR THE MILLION H Ibani)? SSooft for tbc IbousebolO TWELFTH THOUSAND gonbon T. FISHER UNWIN PATERNOSTER SQUAREWELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. Qrr All rights reserved.RECIPES. — ■ «♦— ACIDITY OF THE STOMACH.—This unpleasant disorder gives rise to heart-burn, flushings of the face, and other unpleasant sensa- tions. It is most readily cured by taking two teaspoonfuls of magnesia in a tumbler of milk or water, the former is better. ACONITE (WINTER); or, New Year’s Gift.—This bright yellow, early-flowering plant thrives best in a somewhat damp and shady situation, such as under trees or shrubs. It does not bear to be disturbed too often ; but it is advisable to renew the surface of the soil every other year. In transplanting, take up a large patch, so as to insure having a sufficient amount of “ eyes ” to propagate the plant. As the whole family of aconites, both yellow and blue, are poisonous, they should not be grown where there are children. ACORNS, To Plant.—The latter part of October or the beginning of November is the most favourable time for sowing acorns. If they are kept out of the ground longer they are liable to sprout. Should the season be inclement they may be kept in the dry till spring, and planted in the middle of March or the beginning of April in beds of light earth at a depth of an inch and a half. iEOLIAN HARP, To Make an.—Make a box of very thin deal wood, five inches deep, six inches wide, and of a length exactly answering to the window in which it is intended to be placed. Glue on to it at the top extremities two pieces of wainscot, about half an inch high and a quarter of an inch thick, to serve as bridges for the strings, and within-side of each end glue two pieces of beech about an inch square and equalling in length the width of the box, which is to hold the pegs. Into one of these bridges fix as many pegs (such as are used for pianofortes will do) as there are strings, and into the other fasten as many brass pins, to which attach one end of the strings (first fiddle strings answer well) and twist the other end round the opposite peg. The strings, which should not be drawn tight, must be tuned in unison. To procure a proper passage for the wind, a thin board, supported by four pegs, is placed over the strings, at about three inches distant from the sounding-board. The instrument must be exposed to the wind at a partially-opened window, and to increase the force of the current of air, either the door of the room or an opposite window should be opened. When the wind blows the strings begin to sound in unison, but as the force of the current increases the sound changes into a pleasing admixture of all the notes of the diatonic scale, ascending and descending, and often uniting in the most delightful harmony. AGAPANTHUS.—This plant bears a handsome head of lovely blue flowers in July, and continues to bloom throughout the summer if indulged with plenty of water, of which it is very greedy. It requires a 2s light, rich soil, and flourishes best in the open air, but is only half-hardy in England. It is multiplied by division of the bulb, planting the off-sets in peat mould as soon as they are removed from their parent. Seedlings do not flower till their fourth or fifth year. During the dormant season keep the bulbs well protected from damp. AGATES, To Test.—The curious figures found in agates are some- times produced artificially by a solution of silver in nitric acid and after- wards exposing the part to the sun. This imposition may be discovered by laying the stones for a few hours in aqua-fortis, when the artificial figures will entirely disappear, leaving only the natural veins. AGNAILS, To Prevent.—Loosen the semicircular skin of the nails by means of any half-blunt instrument, but without touching the quicks, then dip the tips of the fingers in tepid water, and push the skin back with the towel. This method, practised daily, will prevent the formation of agnails and greatly improve the general appearance of the hands. AGUE AND LOW NERVOUS FEVER, Tonic for.—To one quart of water add two ounces of bruised lance-leaved Peruvian bark. Boil from ten to fifteen minutes and strain while hot. From one to three ounces to be taken whenever the shivering is felt. Rub the back with equal parts of rum and spirits of turpentine, and keep the bowels open with the following mixture:—Dried sulphate of magnesia, an ounce and a half; sulphate of soda, six drams ; infusion of senna, fourteen ounces ; tincture of jalap, one ounce, and compound tincture of cardamoms, one ounce. Two tablespoonfuls to be taken every four hours until it operates. ALABASTER, To Clean.—Ordinary dirt is best removed from alabaster by means of soap and water ; but if any portion is stained, first wash it with soap and water, cover it with whiting, and after this has re- mained on for a few hours, wash it off, and rub the part where the stains were. ALE (MULLED).—Make some ale quite hot, add a little grated nutmeg or mixed spice ; for each quart of ale beat up half a dozen eggs and mix them with a little cold ale ; pour the hot ale to it, and empty from vessel to vessel several times to prevent curdling ; stir it over the fire till sufficiently thick, then add a piece of butter or a little brandy, and serve with dry toast. ALE, To Brew Long-keeping.—The main objects to be kept in view are to brew the liquor from the very best materials, and of such body and strength that sufficient alcohol may be formed to keep it ; to bottle at the right time, and, when bottled, that it should be kept at a proper uniform temperature throughout the year. Brew moderate quantities at a time, using a liberal quantity of malt and hops. Take only the extract of one mashing from the grist, and let the heat of this one mashing be from 165 to 175 degrees Fahrenheit. Thus brewed, the ale will not require clearing by artificial means. Such ts bottle well, and will keep any length of time in bottle, becoming mellow to the palate and desirably vinous, and are not so likely to burst the bottles as weak ales. Good table beer may be made from the grist remaining after the strong ale has been brewed, by a second and third mashing at a rather higher temperature, and boiling the hops with the worts and properly fermenting afterwards. ALKANET.—This plant—the flowers of which grow in long spikes, coming out imbricatim, like the tiles of a house—may be propagated by seeds sown either in spring or autumn upon a bed of light, sandy soil, and afterwards transplanted at a distance of two feet from one another. The root imparts an elegant red colour to oily substances, and is in conse- quence an ingredient in ointments, plasters, &c. It likewise improves the colour of mahogany.3 ALLSPICE, Tincture of.—Steep an ounce and a half of bruised allspice in a pint of brandy for a fortnight, shaking it frequently, then pour off the clear liquor. Will be found very useful for culinary purposes. ALMOND CAKES.—Sweet almonds, one pound ; refined sugar, one pound ; best flour, three-quarters of a pound, and ten eggs. Blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar with a little orange-flower water ; beat up the eggs, then gradually mix the other ingredients, pour into a buttered mould, and bake. ALMOND FLAVOURING.—See Noyeau, Quintessence of. ALMOND CUSTARD.—To one pint of milk add half an ounce of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and sufficient sugar to sweeten to taste ; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, then add three or four drops of essence of almonds, and pour the custard into cups. ALMOND PASTE FOR CAKES.—See Wedding Cakes, Almond Paste for. ALMOND PASTE FOR THE HANDS.—Beat together a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, six drams of white wax, and six drams of spermaceti ; put up carefully in rose-water. ALMONDS, To Blanch.—Put them into a saucepan of cold water, and gradually bring to a scalding heat ; then take them out, peel them quickly, and throw them into cold water as they are done ; afterwards dry them in a cloth. ALOES, To Propagate.—Take slips, suckers, or bottom off-sets from the old plants, and set them separately in pots of very light, dry compost, press the earth firmly about the roots, and supply with a moderate amount of water. Place the pots in a greenhouse, defend them from the mid-day sun, and keep the mould only just damp. The plants will be rooted in a very short time. During the winter months water very sparingly, and only when the pots are very dry. AMALGAM (ELECTRICAL).—Melt together in an iron ladle one ounce of zinc and the same quantity of tin, then withdraw it from the fire and add two ounces of quicksilver, also made hot ; stir well together with an iron rod ; pour the melted metal into a perfectly dry wooden box, and shake it violently until cold. Preserve in a corked glass phial. This amalgam is used for covering the cushions of electrical machines, for which purpose a little must be poured on to a piece of clean paper, crushed quite smooth with a flat-bladed knife, and then spread thinly on the surface of the rubber, previously touched over with a little tallow. AMERICAN PLANTS, Soil for.—Azaleas, rhododendrons, andromedas, kalmias, ledums, and other plants which are generally con- sidered to require bog earth for their successful cultivation, may be grown in a compost of dead leaves, spent tan, rotted sawdust, decomposed straw, grass mowings, and burnt vegetable refuse of all kinds, mixed with suffi- cient garden soil to make it retentive of moisture. The plants should occupy a situation not too much exposed to the direct influence of the sun. AMMONIA (MURIATE OF), To Test.—See Muriate of Ammonia. ANCHOVIES, A Substitute for.—Pound together one pound of table-salt, two ounces of bay-salt, a pound of saltpetre, an ounce of sal- prunella, three or four grains of cochineal. Then take half a peck of sprats, place a layer of the fish at the bottom of a jar or pan, cover them with a layer of the ingredients, then another layer of fish, and some more of the pickle, and so on. Press down hard, cover closely, and stand it by for six months, when it will be ready for use. ANCHOVIES, Butter of.—Take a dozen anchovies which have been pickled, wash them, remove the heads and bones, beat them in a4 mortar with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and when reduced to a fine paste rub through a hair sieve. Put it into a galipot and keep it well covered. Only a small quantity should be made at one time, as it soon becomes rank. Used for salads, fish sauce, &c., and is a nice relish with bread and butter. ANCHOVIES, Essence of.—Bone and chop up about two dozen anchovies, add a teacupful of water and a little of the liquor in which they were preserved ; boil slowly for a few minutes, until the anchovies are dissolved ; let them cool, then strain the essence and bottle it off. ANCHOVY SAUCE.—See Sauce (Anchovy). ANEMONES, The Cultivation of.—These plants are particularly valuable on account of their flowering late in autumn and during the spring. They require a rich, light, loamy soil with a slight mixture of sea- sand. The single varieties are multiplied by seed. As this, like carrot- seed, hangs together in knots, it is usual to mix it with a good proportion of moist sand, rubbing it well between the hands. It is then sown broad- cast in May or June, and covered with a slight stratum of light mould. The double kinds are propagated by division of the roots. Take them up at the end of four or five years, directly the leaves are quite withered, divide the roots, and replant at once in fresh soil. If the old bed is lightly raked and a fresh coating of loam given, new plants will in due time spring up from the fragments of tubers left in the ground. ANISE-SEED, To Choose.—The seed should be chosen fresh, large, plump, newly-dried, of a good smell, and a biting, aromatic taste, without any bitterness. Used, when infused, as a cure for flatulence. Dose, one teaspoonful and a half. ANOTTA, To Prepare.—Throw into a wooden bowl the contents of the fruit or capsules of the South American tree known as the bixa, and pour upon it as much hot water as is necessary to suspend the pulp. After the colour is drawn out, remove the seeds, leaving the wash to settle ; then pour off the water, dry the sediment in the shade, and make it into balls or cakes. Used for colouring butter, cheese, and chocolate, and also by dyers for staining articles a buff colour. ANTS, To Destroy.—After having discovered the aperture of their nests, surround it with soft clay formed into the shape of a funnel, and pour in boiling water. Where they are in the habit of infesting a floor or room, lay down thin slices of raw liver, upon which the ants will soon con- gregate in large numbers. Throw the meat as it becomes covered into hot water, shake it dry, and lay it down to collect more. A damp sponge, sprinkled with dry white sugar, may likewise be used. The ants will go into the cells of the sponge after the sugar, and can be destroyed in hot water. ANTS, To Prevent them Climbing.—Rub a good thick coating of chalk round the tree or whatever it is desired to protect ; the ants cannot walk over the chalk. It must be renewed every few weeks. Another good remedy is to soak a flannel in castor oil and tie it round the stem. They will not pass over this. ANTS (WHITE), To Preserve Matting, &c., from.—Take two or three ounces of corrosive sublimate and dissolve it in a hand-basin (not metallic) full of water. Turn the matting wrong side uppermost, and with a cloth wet it all over with the solution. When dry it is ready for use. Corrosive sublimate being a deadly poison, care should be taken not to let it lie about within reach. Emmets have a great dislike to indigo, and will seldom touch anything dyed in it. They have also a great aversion to salt. APHIDES, OR PLANT-LICE, To Destroy. — Syringe re- peatedly the leaves and stems of the infected plants with a solution of5 tobacco, lime-water, or gas tar-water. Ladybirds should at all times receive protection, as they destroy large quantities of aphides. APPLE CHIPS, To Prepare.—Peel and core a number of apples, cut them into thin slices, and bake them in an oven till quite hard. They will keep good in this state for two or three years. When required for use, steep them in hot water. APPLE DUMPLINGS (BAKED).—Peel half a dozen good- sized apples, and core without cutting them into quarters. Next, put into a basin three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of baking powder ; rub in a quarter of a pound of dripping, and add sufficient water to form a light, firm paste. Put it on a floured board ; flour it, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, cut it in rounds, put an apple in each round, and fill with sugar and two cloves ; work the paste smoothly over the apples, place the dumplings on a greased tin, and bake in a hot oven from half to three-quarters of an hour. When done put them on a hot dish, and sprinkle them with caster sugar. APPLE DUMPLINGS (BOILED).—Make them as directed above, tie them in cloths, and boil them ; or they may be made with suet pudding crust. APPLE FOOL.—Peel and core the apples, stew them till quite tender, then beat them to a pulp, and add gradually a pint of milk, or half a pint of cream and a pint of milk. Serve in a glass dish. APPLE FRITTERS.—A* Fritters. APPLE PUDDING.—Chop up finely six ounces of beef suet, put it in a basin with a pound of flour and a little salt, mix it into a paste with water ; roll it thin upon a floured board, and fill with a pound and a half of cooking apples, add the grated rind and the juice of a lemon, or a little nutmeg and cinnamon ; tie in a cloth and boil for an hour and a half. APPLES (DRIED).—Take some nice large apples and put them into a very slow oven for several hours ; take them out occasionally and press them flat. Repeat the pressing until they are done. If they present a dry appearance, rub them over with clarified sugar. APPLE SYRUP.—Pare and cut into slices three pounds of ripe apples, and put them into a jar with nearly a pint of water and a pound and a quarter of sugar. Set the jar in a saucepan of water and boil for three hours. When cold, flavour with lemon or orange flower water. APPLE TART.—Pare and core the apples, and boil the peel and cores in a small quantity of water until well flavoured; strain, add a little sugar and cinnamon, and simmer the liquor again. Place a layer of apples in a dish lined round the edges with puff paste, sprinkle with sugar, put in some chopped lemon peel, or cloves, if preferred, and a little lemon juice ; add the rest of the apples, more sugar, and the prepared liquor, cover with puff paste, and bake. When done, raise the crust, stir in a couple of ounces of fresh butter and two eggs, well beaten ; replace the crust, and serve. APPLES, To Preserve Fresh.—Dig a trench one foot below the surface of the ground ; cover the whole surface of the bottom and sides with tufts of grass, the grassy side upwards ; then fill the space with apples, making the heap highest in the centre, and sloping gently down at the sides, and cover them close with turf, the grassy side next the apples ; finally cover the ridge with soil a foot thick, to keep out the air and frost. By this method apples may be kept till April or May following the year in which they are gathered. APPLES, To Preserve the Colour of.—To prevent apples discolour- ing during the process of cooking immerse them for a quarter of an hour in cold water slightly tinctured with lemon juice.6 APPLE TRIFLE.—Scald some apples till they are soft, then mash, and mix with them the rind of half a lemon grated fine ; sweeten with sugar, and press through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Next beat up the yolks of two eggs with a pint of milk, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let come to a boil ; lay it evenly over the apples, and cover with a whip made the day previous. The whip is made with cream, the whites of eggs well beaten, sugar, grated lemon peel, and raisin wine. APPLE WATER.—Bake a large apple till it is quite soft, then mash it, pour upon it a pint of boiling water ; beat it up with a little sugar, and when cold strain. This makes a refreshing drink for sick persons. APRICOTS (DRIED).—Take some of the fruit before they have fully ripened, scald them in a jar immersed in boiling water, skin and stone them, and put them into a syrup of half their weight of sugar, in the pro- portion of a pint of water to every four pounds of sugar ; scald, and then boil them until clear. Let them stand for a couple of days in the syrup, then scald them in a thin candy. Keep them in the candy for two days, warming them up each day ; then lay them on a fine strainer to dry. AQUA-FORTIS, To Make.—Mix with any quantity of nitrous acid an equal proportion of water. AQUA-REGIA.—See Gold, To Dissolve. AQUARIUMS, Paint for Inside of.—Make a varnish of shellac and methylated spirit, with zinc-white, sufficiently thin to flow freely with a brush, and paint quickly, as it dries at once. A polish may be given to the paint by dissolving a small portion of gutta-percha with the shellac. AQUARIUMS, Cement for.—See Cement to Unite Glass to Iron. AQUA-TINT A.—This method of engraving resembles drawing in Indian ink. The process consists in corroding the copper with aqua-lortis in such a manner that an impression from it has the appearance of a tint laid on the paper. This is effected by covering the copper with a substance which takes a granulated form so as to prevent the aqua-fortis from acting where the particles adhere, and by this means cause it to corrode the copper partially and in interstices only. When these particles are extremely minute, and near to each other, the impression from the plate appears to the naked eye like a wash of Indian ink, but when they are larger the granulation is more distinct. The matter generally used for this purpose is composed of equal parts of asphaltum and transparent rosin, reduced to powder and sifted on the plate (which has been previously greased) through a fine sieve. The plate is then heated so as to make the powder adhere, and the artist scrapes it away when a very strong shade is wanted, and covers those parts with varnish where he wishes a very strong light to appear. The aqua-fortis, properly diluted with water, is then put on, within a fence of wax, as in common etching for engraving, and the effect is produced by repeated applications, covering the light parts each time with varnish. ARROWROOT BLANCMANGE.—Scald a quart of milk, sweeten it, add a pinch of salt, and having moistened two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with milk, stir it into the scalded milk and boil it up ; flavour with lemon or orange water, and pour it into moulds to cool. ARROWROOT CUSTARD.—Mix a tablespoonful of arrowroot with a little cold milk, and stir it into a pint of boiling milk, with an egg and a tablespoonful of sugar previously beaten together. Let it scald, then stir in a few drops of flavouring, and pour it into cups. ARROWROOT GRUEL.—Take a dessert-spoonful of arrow- root, and mix it with sufficient cold water to form a thin paste, then put it7 into boiling water or boiling milk, and add salt, sugar, and lemon-juice to taste. ARROWROOT PUDDING (BAKED).—Mix two teacupfuls of arrowroot with half a pint of cold milk, and stir it into half a pint of boiling milk. Let stand till cold, then add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add, and bake in a buttered dish. Time, about one hour. ARROWROOT, To Detect Adulteration in.—If upon rubbing arrowroot through the hands a slippery and glaze-like feeling is detected, it may be taken for granted that the farinaceous substance is adulterated with starch. ARSENIC, To Test the Presence of.—-Add a very small proportion of carbonate of potash to the suspected liquor ; let it stand for a few minutes, then drop in a small quantity of sulphate of copper ; if arsenic be present a bright yellowish green precipitate will be immediately produced. A stream of sulphurated hydrogen gas, passed through the liquor con- taining arsenic, produces a golden yellow precipitate. ARTICHOKES (BOILED).—Take four or five artichokes, cut all the points of the leaves, and trim the bottoms very neatly, rub the bottoms with the juice of a lemon to prevent them turning black, boil them about three-quarters of an hour, then empty the middles, and serve with melted butter. If there are any old ones among them they will require longer boiling. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, To Cook.—Leave on the most tender of the leaves so that the inside of the artichokes may be kept more clean. Boil them in salt and water, and, when sufficiently done to allow it, remove the leaves and empty the choke without breaking the bottoms ; then stew them in weak gravy for half an hour or so, and serve with forcemeat in each. ARTICHOKES (FRIED).—Well wash and drain the artichokes, cut them into quarters, rub them with lemon, and throw them into an earthen pan with some pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Next take four spoonfuls of flour, three entire eggs, and a teaspoonful of olive oil, and stir the whole with a wooden spoon till the leaves are well imbued. Then throw them, piece by piece, into some melted dripping, and fry them a fine brown colour, using a skewer to prevent them sticking together. When done crisp, lay them on a towel to drain, and send to table with fried crisp green parsley. They should be trimmed so as to make the leaves open. ARTICHOKES, General Treatment of.—There are two kinds of artichokes, the globe and the oval ; the former are preferable, as the heads are larger and the eatable parts thicker and more fleshy. Each kind is propagated by planting the young shoots during April in an open situation in good ground with which is incorporated a quantity of rotten dung, placing them in rows four or five feet asunder and two feet distant between each row, and giving them at once a plentiful supply of water. Any straggling parts of the top and roots should be trimmed previous to planting. If a plantation is made thus every spring, a succession of fruit may be obtained for four or five months in the year, as the old stocks produce heads from June to August, and the young ones from August to October. A small crop, such as lettuce or spinach, may be grown between the rows in the first year. Artichokes may be brought to a large head by cutting oft the side suckers when they are the size of an egg. They are gathered for the table when the scales of the head open anxi before the flowers appear in the centre. After gathering the heads, break down the stems close to the ground, so as to encourage a bottom growth.—See also Jerusalem Artichokes.8 ARTICHOKES (PICKLED).—Gather the young artichokes directly they are formed, and put them into boiling brine for two minutes ; drain them dry, and when cold put them into jars and cover them with hot vinegar, adding a little mixed spice. When quite cold tie down the jars in the ordinary way. ARTICHOKES, To Choose.—To ascertain the quality of arti- chokes, break off one of the stalks ; if young and good they wiil break off clear, if old they will be thready. ARUM; or, Snake-root.—This plant gets its name from its handsome stem, the speckled nature of which resembles the skin of a serpent. It bears a very large dark-purple flower, and will grow in any soil, providing it is deep and rather moist. Quite hardy, but does not like to be disturbed and will not flower for a couple of years after transplantation. There is a white-flowered variety, often used to decorate the edges of ponds. This is best grown in pots, the saucers of which are kept half-filled with water, except during frosts. It is propagated by division of the roots. ASPARAGUS (BOILED). — Take fresh-gathered asparagus, scrape the stalks clean, and throw them into cold water ; then tie them up in bundles (about twenty-five in each), cut the stalks to a uniform size, leaving enough at the bottom to serve as a handle for the green part; boil for five-and-twenty minutes in salt and water, and serve on toasted bread with melted butter. To preserve their colour boil them over a fierce fire. ASPARAGUS, Ragout of.—Carefully pick some young asparagus, cut into small pieces, the size of green peas, avoiding to put in hard or tough pieces ; wash in several waters, and throw into boiling water with a little salt. When nearly done, drain in a sieve ; then put into a stew-pan with a little broth, a small piece of butter, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of savory, two cloves, and a couple of green onions, and stir them over the fire for ten minutes ; add a little flour and a small piece of sugar, stirring the whole over the fire. When the asparagus is done, take out the parsley, cloves, and onions, and thicken the ragout with the yolks of eggs beaten with a little cream and salt. ASPARAGUS, To Gather.—The shoots of asparagus may be cut when they are from two to five inches above the ground ; if permitted to run, the heads soon become open and loose and of less estimation. Thrust the knife down close by the side of the shoots intended to be cut, so as not to wound or destroy any young buds that are coming up in succession and do not yet appear, cutting the shoots off slanting, about three or four inches within the ground. The general cutting for the year should terminate about the middle or third week in June, otherwise the roots will be weakened, for so long as the cutting continues the roots wall send up new shoots, weaker and smaller than the previous, to the detriment of the next season’s product. ASPARAGUS, To Grow.—Choose some moderately light, pliable soil, in an open situation, where it enjoys the full power of the sun, dig in a good quantity of rotten dung, divide it into beds four or five feet wide, with alleys two feet wide between each bed. Strain a line lengthways along the bed nine inches from the edge ; then with a spade cut out a small trench or drill, close to the line, about six inches deep, making the side next the line nearly upright, and two or three inches below the surface of the ground. Take some roots devoid of tops, either one or two years old, and place them, at an equal depth, fiat in the bottom of the trench, but nearly upright against the back of the drill, so that the crown of the plants may also stand upright, and two or three inches below the surface of the ground ; spread the roots regularly at the back of the trench, and cover them with the earth. Proceed in the same manner with each row, driving9 a stake into the ground to mark its position. The operation of planting may be carried on any time during March. Keep the beds free from weeds at all times. It will be three or four years from the time of planting before a full crop can be gathered, but if the beds are properly dressed every year in spring and autumn, they will produce good heads for twelve or fourteen years. ASPARAGUS, To Preserve.—Asparagus may be kept tolerably fresh by standing it perpendicularly in at most half an inch of water, but it must on no account be entirely immersed. It is, however, far better to use it when fresh gathered, as it is then a mild aperient. ASPIC.—Boil a handful of aromatic herbs, such as burnet, chervil, and tarragon, in white vinegar. When the vinegar is well scented, pour some chicken broth into a stew-pan ; season it well, and make it hot. Beat up the whites of four eggs, pour the vinegar on to them, and add to the broth ; keep stirring till the jelly gets white, when it will be near boiling point, then put it on the corner of the stove with a cover over it and a little fire on the top, and when quite clear and bright, strain it through a ba£- ASTHMA, To Relieve.—Best honey, two ounces ; castor oil, one ounce. Mix, and take a teaspoonful every night and morning. If the breathing be difficult the following will probably give relief:—To one ounce of spirits of wine, add a quarter of an ounce of balsam of tolu and the same quantity of ether. Put a teaspoonful into a quart of boiling water and inhale it twice a day. AURICULAS.—These old-established flowers are propagated by off-sets taken during the autumn or early spring, and placed in a compost of sandy loam, leaf mould, and thoroughly rotted cow-dung, or other light manures. They delight in shade, and will not bear much moisture. Where the atmosphere is naturally damp they require a light soil. AZALEAS, The Cultivation of.—The Chinese azaleas, of which there are numerous varieties, must all be treated as greenhouse plants. The American are more hardy, and will flourish in the open if planted in heath-mould mixed with sandy loam, and favoured with a sheltered posi- tion where they will be neither very wet nor very dry. They may be pro- pagated by off-sets, by layering, and by grafting, while numerous varieties are obtainable by hybridized seed. BACON, To Choose.—Select that which has a thin rind, firm fat slightly tinged with red, and tender, good coloured lean adhering to the bone. If yellow streaks are observed in it it should be rejected, as this is indicative of its being rusty. BACON, To Cure.—Remove the inside fat from a side of pork, rub it on both sides with salt, and hang it up for a day or two, that the blood may run from it. Then take a pound of bay-salt, six ounces of saltpetre, two pounds of coarse sugar, and a pound of common salt; rub them well into the pork, turning it every day for a fortnight ; drain, smoke it over a wood fire for ten days, and hang it in a cool, dry place. BAKING POWDER, To Make.—Carbonate of soda, three- quarters of a pound ; tartaric acid, half a pound ; caster sugar, a quarter of a pound ; salt, two ounces. Mix well, and keep in well-corked bottles. Quantity, one teaspoonful to each pound of flour. Or, mix half a pound of white flour with a quarter of a pound of cream of tartar, a quarter of a pound of tartaric acid, and six ounces of bi- carbonate of soda ; pass through a sieve, and keep in a canister or bottle well corked. BAKING, To Prevent Burning while.—A cup of water set in the oven while baking will prevent meat, bread, pies, &c., from burning.10 BALM (COMMON).—This aromatic family herb is propagated by oil-sets taken in spring and autumn. In taking off the slips be careful to preserve some of the roots to each ; plant them in rich earth at a distance of six or eight inches from each other. BALM OF GILEAD, The Culture of.—Although the flowers of this plant are small and not very ornamental, it is, nevertheless, worthy of cultivation on account of the odoriferous fragrance which is emitted from the leaves, which, if protected in winter, remain throughout the year. It may be grown from seed sown in April on a moderate hot-bed or on natural soil in a warm, sheltered situation. It may likewise be propagated by cuttings about the middle of June. Cut off some of the strongest stalks, divide them into lengths of six inches, plant several together in large pots, and put them on a hot-bed to expedite their rooting ; or they may be planted in a shady position in the open, four or five inches apart. They will root freely and be ready to transplant in two months. BALM, To Propagate.—This herb is propagated by parting the roots or off-set slips in spring and autumn, and planting them six or eight inches apart. BANBURY CAKES.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, and mix it with half a pound of finely cut candied lemon and orange peel, a pound of currants, and a quarter of an ounce each of ground cinnamon and allspice. Roll out some pastry, cut it into pieces six or seven inches square, put the above meat in the middle of one half, fold the other over, and pinch it into an oval shape, then brush the tops over with white of egg, dust the cakes with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. BANDOLINE; or, Hair Fixature.—Gum tragacanth, one dram ; water, half a pint ; proof spirit, three ounces ; otto of roses, ten drops. Soak for twenty-four hours, then strain. BANNOCK.—Mix together a cupful of oatmeal, the same quantity of flour, half a teaspoonful of ginger, half a teaspoonful of salt, a table- spoonful of treacle, a small quantity of soda, and sufficient buttermilk to form it into a stiff paste, and bake on an iron plate over the fire. Bannock may likewise be made from pease or barley meal. BARBEL (BOILED).—Boil them in salt and water. When done, remove the fish carefully, pour away half the water, and put into the remainder a little vinegar and salt, a couple of sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, the juice of a lemon, some mixed spice, two or three anchovies, and some picked shrimps ; boil well together, then put the fish into it, let it simmer for a short time, and serve with the liquor strained over it. BARK, Compound Decoction of.—Put into a pint of water three drams of Peruvian bark and three drams of Virginia snake-root ; boil to half the quantity, strain, and add one ounce of aromatic water. BARK, Decoction of.—Reduce to a powder one ounce of Peruvian bark, put it into a pint and a half of water ; boil till it is reduced to a pint, then strain. Dose, from one to three ounces. Used in cases of diarrhoea, dysentery, indigestion, debility, &c. BARK, Tincture of.—Take two ounces of Peruvian bark, half an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of orange peel, and a large tablespoon- ful of cayenne pepper, and infuse them for a week in a pint and a half of brandy, keeping the vessel closed the whole time. Dose, from one to three drams. BARLEY BROTH (SCOTCH).—Wash half a pound of Scotch barley in cold water ; put it in a stew-pan with four or five pounds of shin of beef or a knuckle of veal; cover it with cold water, and when it boils skim it well, and add two good-sized onions ; simmer gently for two hours ; let it grow cold so that all the fat may be removed from the surface ; thenII put In a head of celery and a turnip, with seasoning to taste, and boil for an hour longer. If more fat rises, skim it off before sending the broth to table. BARLEY GRUEL.—Boil an ounce and a half of pearl barley in a quart of water till reduced to a pint ; strain ; flavour with ginger, warm it up in the saucepan, then add a glass of port wine. This gruel is rendered more strengthening by using three parts milk and one part water, instead of water only. BARLEY PUDDING.—Wash a pound of pearl barley, add half a pound of refined sugar and a little mixed spice, and mix it with three quarts of milk. Bake it in a deep pan till nearly half cooked, then remove it from the oven and mix it with six well-beaten eggs ; pour into a buttered dish and bake an hour longer. BARLEY SUGAR (WHITE).—Boil some loaf sugar until it is easy to crack, then pour it upon a marble slab greased with oil of sweet almonds, and mould it into any desired figure. It must be kept from the air or it will become soft. BARLEY WATER.—Boil four tablespoonfuls of pearl barley for five minutes, then pour the water away ; add to the barley a little sugar, a piece of lemon-peel, and three pints of water: let it simmer till it has thickened ; strain, and flavour to taste. BAROMETER, A Simple.—Fill a common wide-mouthed pickle- bottle within three inches of the top with water ; then take an ordinary Florence oil flask, and, having removed the straw covering and washed it thoroughly, plunge the neck of the flask as far as it will go into the pickle- bottle, and the barometer is complete. In fine weather the water will rise into the neck of the flask even higher than the mouth of the pickle-bottle, and in wet and windy weather it will fall to within an inch of the mouth of the flask. Before a heavy gale of wind the water has been seen to leave the flask altogether at least eight hours before the gale reached its height. BAROMETER (CHEMICAL).—Put into a glass tube or a narrow phial two drams of camphor, half a dram of pure saltpetre, half a dram of muriate of ammonia, and two ounces of proof spirits. In dry weather the solution remains clear ; on the approach of a change, minute stars rise up in the liquid ; and in stormy weather the condition of the chemical combination is much disturbed. BAROMETER (LEECH).—Put three gills of water into an eight ounce bottle and place a leech therein, covering the top of the bottle with muslin. If the leech lies coiled up motionless at the bottom of the glass the weather will be fine or frosty ; if it moves about very swiftly there will be wind ; if it remains for some days almost constantly out of the water and exhibits violent throes and convulsive-like motions, rain and thunder will succeed ; if it remains at the top of the water, it will be rainy and unsettled, or in winter frost may be expected. BASIL, To Grow.—Sow the seed in a hot-bed in spring for planting into the open ground in May. BASILICON OINTMENT (BLACK).—Melt half a pound of yellow rosin ; add half a pound of yellow wax and a quarter of a pound of common pitch ; then remove it from the fire, add slowly half a pound of linseed oil, and stir the whole together until cold. BASILICON OINTMENT (GREEN).—Yellow rosin and yellow wax, of each one ounce and a half; lard, three ounces ; Venice turpentine, three ounces ; powdered verdigris, half an ounce. First melt the rosin, then gradually add the other ingredients, but take care that the mass does not boil over.12 BASILICON OINTMENT (YELLOW).—Melt half a pound of yellow rosin, then add half a pound of yellow wax and three ounces of Burgundy pitch. When the whole is melted, remove it from the fire, and add gradually a quarter of a pound of Venice turpentine and ten ounces of linseed oil, stirring till it is cold. BATTER FOR FISH, FRITTERS, &c.—Cut a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into small pieces, pour on it a glass of beer, or a little oil, vinegar, or white wine ; add by degrees sufficient flour to make it the proper consistence, and a pinch of salt. Just as it is required for use stir into it the whites of two eggs beaten to a solid froth, and use as quickly as possible. BATTER PUDDING (BOILED). — Rub gradually three spoonfuls of flour into a pint of milk ; simmer till it thickens, then stir in an ounce and a half of butter, and set it to cool. Add the yolks of three eggs ; pour the batter into a buttered basin, tie it in a cloth ; plunge it into boiling water, bottom upwards ; boil for an hour and a half, and serve with fresh butter. BEANS AND PEAS, To Preserve from Mice.—Peas and beans may be preserved from the ravages of mice by soaking the seeds in salad- oil and rolling them in powdered rosin previous to putting them into the earth, or by saturating them in a solution of bitter aloes. Many gardeners cover the drills with chopped furze. BEANS (BROAD), To Cultivate.—A strong, tenacious, and heavily-manured soil is most suitable for these. For a first crop, sow early Mazagans on a warm and sheltered border, early in November and again in January. Plant in rows from two to three feet apart, leaving about three inches between the seeds, and covering them to the depth of three inches. Windsor, Longpods, and all the later sorts, for a general crop, may be sown from January to June. BEANS (BROAD), To Boil.—Put them into a saucepan of water with a little salt and chopped parsley. Boil till tender, drain, and serve with butter sauce, accompanied with boiled bacon or pickled pork. Some persons boil the beans with the pork, but this method spoils the colour. BEANS (FRENCH), To Boil. — Remove the ends and stalks from the very young beans, and the strings from the backs of those of fuK. growth. Cut the beans diagonally, or divide them down the centre and then across, throwing them into cold spring water as they are done. Put them into boiling water with a little salt, and a very small piece of soda to preserve their colour, and boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour, or until they are tender, leaving the saucepan uncovered the whole time. BEANS (HARICOT), To Prepare.—Scald half a pint of the white beans in boiling water until the skins become detached. Separate the beans from the skins and throw them into cold water, then put them into a stew-pan with some good broth or stock, and let them boil nearly to a glaze, season with pepper and salt, add a little sugar, stir well together, and serve. BEANS (RUNNERS OR TALL), To Grow.—Sow in a light, rich soil, during the first or second week in May, in drills six feet apart ; earth up and stake when about four inches high, and water with liquid manure when necessary. The above comprise Scarlet Runners, Champion Runners, Painted Lady, and White Dutch. BEANS (WINDSOR), To Cook.—These beans are best shelled immediately before cooking. Throw them into boiling water with a little salt, and boil them pretty fast until they are tender, then strain them off and serve with boiled pork or bacon, accompanied with plain melted butter or parsley sauce.13 BEDS, To Ascertain if Damp.—Place a looking-glass betweei the sheets for a few minutes. If upon its removal the g ass be clouded may be relied on that the sheets are not sufficiently dried, and they had better be removed, for it is better to put up with the discomfort of sleeping in the blankets than to stand the chance of catching cold or perhaps rheumatism. BED-TICKS AND FEATHERS, To Clean.—After washing the bed-tick in the usual manner, rinse it in cold water, to which some permanganate of potass has been added. This will render it perfectly sweet. Should any stains remain they may be taken out with chloride of lime, afterwards rinsing the tick. When dry, wax the inside well before putting in the feathers, otherwise they will work their way through, ll the leathers are soiled also, they may be purified with lime water, or, bettei still, with a weak solution of carbonate of soda, or water to which a little chloride of lime has been added, afterwards rinsing them in clear water and spreading them out in the sun to dry. BEEF -ALA-MODE.—Take a dressed cow heel, wash it thoroughly in water, and cut off all the flesh in neat pieces. Then take an ox cheek and well wash it in cold water, rub it with salt, and dry it with a clean cloth ; cut it into neat pieces and flour it. Weigh the flesh of both the ox cheek and cow heel; then put three ounces of dripping into a large saucepan over the fire, and when melted put in the floured pieces of meat and fry them till they are a nice brown, stirring occasionally. Slice very thinly six onions and three carrots. Take a sprig or two of parsley, one of marjoram and thyme, and a bay leaf. Tie the seasonings together, and put them into the saucepan with the vegetables, and for each pound of meat add a pint of water, to which has been added two tablespoonfuls of flour nicely mixed. Then put in the pieces of meat with sufficient pepper and salt to taste. When it boils remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for three hours. BEEF (BOUILLI).—Roll and tie the thickest part of the brisket of beef, put it into a stew-pot, cover with water, and add turnips, carrots, celery, onions, and spice. Let it boil fast for an hour and a half, then draw it back and let it stew gently for six hours, adding water from time to time to supply the place of that which evaporates. Serve in a tureen. The chuck and middle rib are also sometimes cooked in the same manner. BEEF (BRISKET OF), Stewed.—Take any quantity of the brisket, cover it with water, and stew till tender ; then take out the flat bones, skim and strain the gravy ; boil up again with spice tied in a bag, and add a glass of port wine. Garnish the meat with vegetables, and pour the gravy round the joint. BEEF BROTH.—Select a piece of leg of beef, break the bone, then put it into a stew-pan, cover with water, and let it boil, removing the scum as it rises ; add a little parsley, mace, and bread raspings, and when the beef is boiled tender cut some toasted bread into fancy shapes, lay them in the tureen, place the meat thereon, and pour the broth over it. BEEF CAKE.—Chop the meat very fine, pepper and salt to taste, then add a little parsley, nutmeg, and some finely-chopped lemon peel; mix well together with bread-crumbs, and bake in the oven for about an hour. BEEF (COLLARED).—Take the thin end of a flank of beef, hang it in a cool place for a day or so, till the skin appears moist, then rub in some coarse brown sugar ; let it stand for forty-eight hours, at the expiration of which period plunge it into brine made of half a pound of salt and one ounce of saltpetre ; rub the brine into the meat every day for a week. Remove the bones, gristle, and skin, and cover the meat with a»4 seasoning of sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, spice, and salt, a little sage may be added if approved of. Wrap it in a cloth and tie it securely with broad tape. Boil it gently for five or six hours ; remove it from the fire, and while still hot place a weight upon it (without removing the tapes) so as to keep it in shape. BEEF COLLOPS.—Cut thin slices of beef from any part that is tender, divide them into pieces about three inches long, beat them flat, flour them, and fry them quickly in butter for two or three minutes ; then lay them in a stew-pan and cover with brown gravy ; add half an eschalot ininced fine, a bit of butter rolled in flour to thicken, and a little pepper and salt. Stew, without suffering it to boil, and serve very hot in a tureen with pickles. BEEF GRAVY, To Make.—Take a piece of the neck or cheek of beef, and having cut it into pieces an inch square, add some flour to it. Mix it well with the meat, put into a saucepan, cover with water, add an onion, a little allspice, pepper, and salt ; let it boil, then skim it, throw in some bread raspings, and stew till it becomes rich. Strain, and serve in a sauceboat. BEEF, HAMS, AND TONGUES, Pickle for.—Bay salt, two pounds and a half; saltpetre, two ounces; coarse brown sugar, one pound ; spring water, one gallon. This pickle may be used several times by each time adding to it a quart of water and two pounds of common salt, and boiling it for fifteen minutes, removing every particle of scum as it forms, so that it may be as clear as possible. BEEF HEART.—Wash it carefully; stuff it with sweet herbs, parsley, bread crumbs, and suet ; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy and currant jelly sauce. BEEF KIDNEYS (FRIED).—Remove the fat and the skin from the kidney, cut it into moderately thin slices, and sprinkle them with salt, grated nutmeg, and cayenne pepper, and also with parsley and eschalot chopped very fine. Fry them over a brisk fire until brown on both sides, then gradually pour into the pan a cup of good gravy, and just as it boils throw in a spoonful of lemon juice with a piece of butter the size of a nut. Pour the whole into a dish garnished with toasted bread cut into dice or other fanciful shapes. BEEF KIDNEYS, (STEWED).—Cut a couple of kidneys into slices, and put them into a stew-pan w'ith two ounces of butter and four or five finely-sliced onions ; season with pepper and salt, and stew for one hour. Then add a little good gravy, and stew it five minutes longer, strain, thicken with butter and flour, and serve the kidneys on the dish with the gravy. BEEF (MINCED).—Cold, underdone meat is generally employed for this purpose. Shred the meat fine with a portion of the fat ; put it into a small stew-pan with a little water, and season with pepper and salt. Boil till the onion is soft, then add a cupful of good beef gravy and a large spoonful of shalot vinegar ; when nearly boiling again pour it on to a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toast. BEEF OLIVES.—For these use the underdone parts of beef, either roast or boiled. Cut the meat into slices about half an inch thick ; chop up finely an eschalot, mix it with bread crumbs, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cover the slices with the mixture ; roll up the meat and secure it with skewers ; put into a stew-pan, cover with gravy mixed with water, and stew gently till tender. Serve with beef gravy. BEEF PALATES.—Simmer till they peel, then put them in a rich gravy, stew very tender, and season with salt, cayenne pepper, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. BEEF (POTTED).—Take some lean beef, rub it with a mixtureof half a pound of salt and one ounce each of sugar and saltpetre, and let it stand for three or four days, then cut it in pieces and boil till tender. When cold, beat it to a paste in a marble mortar, adding by degrees a little melted fat, pepper, allspice, cloves, or such spices as may be approved of. Press it into pots and pour upon the meat a layer, a quarter of an inch thick, of clarified butter or pure mutton fat ; cover the pots with a bladder, and keep in a cool place. BEEF SAUSAGES.—Chop up finely four pounds of lean beef and two pounds of beef suet; mix them with one pound of bread crumbs ; season with pepper and salt, and add powdered sage and sweet herbs to taste ; then press into prepared skins. BEEF (SPICED).—Take a saltspoonful of finely-pounded mace, half a nutmeg ground to a powder, a teaspoonful of cloves, a saltspoonful each of cayenne and black pepper, and a quarter of a pound of coarse brown sugar; mix them thoroughly, and, having procured about seven pounds of the round or flank of beef, rub the above mixture into the meat for three successive days, turning it each day ; afterwards add six ounces of salt to the mixture and rub the beef well with it for a further period of eight days ; rinse it in clear water, put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of good beef broth, keep it well skimmed till it boils, then add an onion, a little parsley, and sweet herbs, and let the whole stew gently for four or five hours. BEEF TEA.—Take half a pound of gravy beef (the sticken), cut it into small squares, lay it in a dish, and pour on to it a .pint of boiling water ; stand it by the fire for three-quarters of an hour, then put it into a saucepan, boil it up, strain, and add a little salt. BEEF, To Choose.—The best ox beef is of a deep coral red and has an open grain, while the fat is smooth and oily and rather white and the suet firm and white. Heifer beef has a closer grain, is not of such a deep colour, and the fat is whiter. Cowr beef is likewise of a paler red, and the older it is the coarser the flesh becomes and the harder to the touch. Meat with yellow fat should be avoided, as it is a sign of inferior quality. BEEF TONGUES (BOILED).—Dress the tongues directly they are taken from the pickle, or if they have remained there long throw them into cold water for three or four hours until they are soft ; then bring them gently to a boil, and simmer until tender. Remove the scum as it rises, and when they are half done throw in a good-sized bunch of sweet herbs. Time, about five hours. BEEF TONGUES (FRIED).—If fresh, soak them in clear water for six or seven hours, but if pickled they may be cooked at once. Boil them tender, peel, and cut into slices. Mix the beaten yolk of an egg with a little lemon juice, nutmeg, and sugar, rub it over the slices, and fry in hot butter. Serve with melted butter, with which is mixed a little sugar and a glass of sherry w'ine. BEER BARRELS, To Sweeten.—Wine and beer casks maybe rendered perfectly sweet by rinsing them first with vitriol and water, and afterwards with pure water. Or, mix lime with water to the consistence of treacle, run it all over the inside of the cask, let it remain till dry, then cleanse with water. This method is adopted in many of our breweries. BEER, Finings for.—Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a quart of stalo beer, simmer to the consistence of syrup, add a tablespoonful of salt and a quarter of a pint of powdered oyster shells ; put them into half a gallon of beer, and stir it till it ferments. This quantity is sufficient for ntty gallons of beer.BEER (HERB).—Put intotwo gallons of water two large handfuls of nettles, a dozen roots of dandelion (with leaves), and one ounce ot bruised root ginger. Boil for one hour, then strain through a sieve into a vessel. While hot, add a pound and a half of sugar, and let it stand till lukewarm. Meanwhile dissolve in sweetened lukewarm water two ounces of yeast, which, when risen, mix with the beer. On the following day skim the barm off the beer, then bottle, cork, and make secure with twine. It will be ready for use in about two days. BEER(SOUR),To Restore.—The addition of oyster-shells calcined to whiteness, or a little fine chalk, or whiting will correct the acidity of sour beer, and make it brisk and sparkling , but it will not keep long after such additions. BEER (SPRUCE).—See Spruce Beer. BEER, To Improve Weak.— Boil to a syrupequal parts of extract of quassia, extract of liquorice, extract of cocculus indicus, and sulphate of iron. The above preparation imparts bitterness to the liquor and gives it the appearance of a strong drink. BEES’ HIVES, To Obtain the Honey from.—Place a table about a yard in front of the hive, cover it with a thick cloth, and set in the center a small plate containing the sixth part of an ounce of chloroform, or rather more for a very large hive. Cover the plate with wire gauze, to prevent the bees coming in immediate contact with the drug ; then, with a steady hand, quickly lift the hive from its usual situation and set it over the plate. Leave the hive closely covered with cloths for about twenty minutes, and while the bees are stupefied remove the honey and replace the hive in its original position, leaving the bees to return to their domicile as they recover. This operation is best performed very early in the morning, before the bees are astir. BEES’ STINGS.—As the bee when it stings always leaves its weapon behind, it is necessary first of all to extract it from the flesh, which may readily be done with a fine needle or a pair of small tweezers, then anoint the wound with a mixture of equal parts of hartshorn and olive oil. Or a little alkaline lotion or even common whiting will take away the pain. To a person in good health stings from these insects are not dangerous, except when they occur in the mouth, throat, or on the eyelid. It is never advisable to knock a bee off when it settles upon one ; if left entirely alone it will generally fly away of its own accord without inflicting any damage. One of the best-known remedies for a sting in the mouth or throat is to chew a strong onion and, if necessary, swallow the juice. BEET-ROOT (PICKLED).—Boil the roots gently until they are nearly done, or from one hour and a half to two hours ; drain them, and, when partly cool, peel and cut in slices half an inch thick ; then put them into a pickle composed of one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of allspice, half an ounce each of pounded ginger, sliced horseradish, and salt, and a quart of strong vinegar. One dram of cayenne pepper or two capsicums are sometimes added to each quart of vinegar. BEET, To Preserve during Winter.—Make a bed of dry sand two inches deep, lay the roots thereon close together, and with the crowns out- wards and inwards alternately ; cover with a couple of inches of sand; put more roots on the top of this, as before, then another layer of sand, and so on, covering the whole thickly with dry straw. BEET, To Grow.—The red beet is grown for its large root, which is used for pickling, while the white and green are cultivated for their leaves, to be used for soups, &c. The different sorts may be raised from seeds sown broadcast in the open ground during February or March, and4 *7 raked in. In June thin the plants out ten or twelve inches apart. The roots of the red kind, which require good mellow ground to bring them to perfection, will be fit to take up in November. BEETLES, To Destroy.—To four parts of powdered borax add one part of flour ; mix, and sprinkle near their haunts. Or, mix four parts of plaster of Paris with one part of oatmeal. Apply as above. Equal quantities of black pepper and flowers of sulphur, mixed and distributed about their runs each evening for about a week will also have the desired effect. BEETLE WAFERS.—Mix equal weights of red lead, sugar, and flour; roll it into sheets, cut into small squares, and place them near the haunts of the insects. BELVEDERE TEA CAKES.—Take a piece of butter the size of an egg, with the same quantity of lard, and mix them well into a quartern of flour; then beat up four eggs till they are light, and add thereto a pint of milk; pour these gradually on to the flour, and add a teaspoonful of salt; work it for about ten minutes, pull it into pieces, roll them out to the size of a breakfast plate, and bake in a hot oven. BERLIN BLUE, To Make.—Mix one ounce of the best powdered indigo with four ounces of sulphuric acid, in a glass body or matrass, and digest it for one hour, with the heat of boiling water, shaking the mixture at different times ; then add twelve ounces of water to it, stir the whole well, and when cold filter it. BIGNONIA CAPREOLATA.—This plant, known also as the tendrilled trumpet-flower, strikes easily from cuttings. It requires plenty of room to spread about, and if planted at the foot of a south wall and covered with litter it will survive our winter. BIRDLIME.—Boil the middle bark of the holly for seven or eight hours, until it is tender, then drain off the water and put it in an underground pit, in layers of fern, and surround it with stones. Leave it to ferment for two or three weeks, until it forms a kind of mucilage ; then pound it in a mortar till it becomes a mass, and rub it well between the hands in running water ; when all the refuse is worked out, place it in an earthen vessel and leave it for four or five days to purify itself. Should any of it stick to the hands it may be removed by means of a little turpentine or oil of lemon bottoms. BIRDS’ EGGS, To Preserve.—Clean away, by means of soap and water, any dirt which may be upon the shell, using for the purpose a soft brush ; then make a medium-sized hole at the sharp end of the egg, and prick a small hole with a needle at the thick end ; apply the mouth to the latter and blow out the contents. If the yolk is hard to get out, run a thin wire into it and stir it about; it may then be blown out with ease. Immerse the thin end in a glass of water, suck some into the shell, and shake it about so as to thoroughly cleanse the inside. To preserve the thin white membrane inside, fill the shell with a solution of corrosive subli- mate of alcohol, and shake it about so as to ensure its coming in contact with every particle of the membrane ; blow the solution out, and give it a very thin coat of gum arabic. BIRDS, QUADRUPEDS, &c., To Stuff.—Remove the skin carefully, leaving entire the skull, horns, hoofs, tail, &c., of large animals, and the skull and beaks of birds ; remove the brains through a cavity made in the mouth : rub the inside of the skin thoroughly with a mixture of alum, pepper, and salt, and stretch it out evenly in a cool, airy place. When perfectly dry proceed with the stuffing. For this purpose hay, hemp, oakum, wool, or any suitable substance is used,18 BIRDS, To Keep Insects from the Eyes of.—If a small bag of sulphur be suspended in the cage it will have the effect of keeping insects from the eyes of the birds, and will be generally beneficial to their health. BIRDS, To Keep them Fresh.—Pluck off the feathers, remove the crop, and draw the inside ; wash them well in a couple of waters and rub them all over with salt ; then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water and draw them up and down a few times by the legs. Let them remain in the pot for five minutes, and hang them in a cool place to drain ; when dry well salt and pepper the insides and hang them up till required. Wash them thoroughly in cold water before putting them to the fire to roast. BIRTHWORT, To Propagate.—This climber, which bears large heart-shaped leaves, is useful for covering trellis-work and walls. It is most readily propagated by layers, half-divided behind an eye. BISTRE, For Painting.—Bistre is made by putting soot of dry wood, as beech, into water, in the proportion of two pounds to a gallon, and boiling them half an hour. After the fluid has settled, pour off the clearer part while it remains hot. Evaporate the fluid to dryness, and what remains is good bistre. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL, for Diarrhoea.—Boil together four pounds of white sugar and one gallon of blackberry juice ; remove the scum, then add one ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, and four or five grated nutmegs. When boiled sufficiently, let it settle ; strain, and add one pint of brandy. Dose for a child, one tablespoonful; for an adult, one wineglassful. BLACKBIRDS.—Feed on apples, cherries, and other fruits, berries, worms, snails, insects, German paste, and finely cut meat and bread. The male bird has a deep black coat with a yellow bill; the female is dark brown. It is rather difficult to distinguish their sex when young, but the darkest are generally the males. BLACK DRAUGHT.—Epsom salts, one ounce; senna leaves, one dram ; grated ginger, one dram ; Spanish liquorice, half an ounce. Pour half a pint of boiling water on the above ; let it stand until it is cold ; then strain and add three drops of oil of cloves. BLACK EYE, Cure for a.—Bathe it with tepid water, and then apply a piece of lint saturated with the pure extract of lead. Keep the lint continually wet with the lotion for two or three hours. BLACKING (LIQUID). —Mix together one pound of ivory black, one pound of treacle, and a quarter of a pound of sweet oil; then dilute a quarter of a pound of oil of vitriol with three times its weight in water, add it to the other ingredients, and after it has stood for three or four hours add a quart of sour beer. BLACKING (LIQUID JAPAN).—Mix four ounces of ivory black with a tablespoonful of sweet oil, add two ounces of coarse sugar, a pint of vinegar, one ounce of muriatic acid, one ounce of sulphuric acid, and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Thoroughly incorporate the whole. BLACKING (PASTE).—To three ounces of ivory black, add three ounces of treacle, and a pint of vinegar. Mix separately six drams of sperm oil and six drams of strong oil of vitriol, then incorporate them thoroughly with the first mixture. BLACK PUDDING.—Procure the blood of a pig, and to each quart add a teaspoonful of salt and half a pound of partially boiled rice, and stir it until it is cold, then add a little more rice boiled in milk. Chop up a pound of fat pork and add it to the blood and rice with half a pound of melted lard, a quarter of a pint of bread crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped sage or a couple of shalots, a little parsley, cayenne and black pepper ; mix all together, press into the skins of the largest gut ofi9 the hog, tie into lengths of six or nine inches, and boil for twenty minutes ; then take them out, lay them on straw until cold, boil them again for a few minutes and take them out and prick them. When wanted for table, they may either be put into the oven, fried, or boiled. BLACK REVIVER.—Boil for two hours in five quarts of water one pound of blue galls and two pounds of logwood, strain, and add half a pound of green copperas. The following is also good :—Bruised blue galls, two ounces ; logwood, and sumach, of each one ounce ; vinegar, one pint; sugar, half an ounce. Macerate in a close vessel, with heat, for twenty-four hours, strain off the clear liquid, add one ounce of sulphate of iron, and shake the mixture twice a day for a week. Keep well corked. Apply with a brush or sponge. BLACK WASH.—Calomel, half a dram; lime water, four ounces. Shake well together. Used as a cleansing application in certain diseases • BLANCMANGE (LEMON) .—Water, sixteen parts ; Lisbon wine, eight parts ; lemon juice, two parts; isinglass, one part ; and suffi- cient sugar to sweeten. Flavour with a little grated lemon peel, and clarify with white of egg. BLANCMANGE, To Make.—Add to half a pint of new milk one ounce of gelatine, and let it soak for six hours. Boil two or three laurel leaves in a pint of cream and half a pint of milk. When it boils pour it over the soaked gelatine, stir till it dissolves, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, strain through muslin, and stir occasionally till it thickens, then pour into moulds. BLANKETS, To Wash.—The following hints on the best way of washing blankets will be found useful to young housewivesIn the first place use tepid water with a little soda in it. The blankets, first rubbed well over with soap, then put into the water and kneaded with the fists, as in kneading dough. If a little ox-gall—a very little—be put in the first water, the impurities soon mingle with it. Scotch lasses trample on blankets when in the tub, and so tread out the dirt. The water must be changed often, or until it looks clean ; but the blankets must be soaped each time, or put in a lather of soap and a little soda, prepared in a copper. The rinsing water must also be soapy, or the wool will dry harsh, and the blankets shrink. They must be wrung as dry as possible, and after hanging on the drying-line for an hour, be taken down and be pulled on all sides by two persons, to prevent them “felting.” Blankets will “felt,” or “mat,” if the water they are washed in be very hot (tepid water only should be used), or if much water be left in them when hung up to dry. BLEEDING, To Stop.—Take some agaric (that is, the fungus known as touchwood), beat it into a pulp and apply to the wound. The fungus will be found growing on the branches of the oak and other trees, and is best gathered in the autumn, when the weather is fine, and after periods of great heat. BLISTER OINTMENT.—Mix half an ounce of finely-powdered Spanish flies with six ounces of basilicon ointment. Used for keeping blisters open. BLOTCHED FACE, Wash for a.—Mix three ounces of rose- water with one dram of sulphate of zinc. Wet the face with it, dry gently, and rub on some cold cream, which also wipe gently off. BLUE-BLACK REVIVER.—Dissolve one ounce of soluble Prussian blue in one quart of distilled water. Maybe used for either black- blue or blue-black cloth.20 BLUE PILL.—Blue pill mass, three grains; compound extract of colocynth, three grains ; essence of ginger, two or three drops. Sufficient for twenty pills. One pill to be taken at bed-time, followed by a black draught (which see) in the morning. BLUE (BERLIN), To Make.—See Berlin Blue. BLUE (PRUSSIAN), To Manufacture.—See Prussian Blue. BOARDS, To Extract Grease from.—Cover the grease with a thick coating of soft soap, then make an iron shovel red hot and hold it close over the soap, wash at once with fullers’ earth water, and afterwards with clear water. BOARDS, To Whiten.—To one part of lime add two parts of soft soap and three parts of silver sand. Lay a little on the boards, rub thoroughly with a wet scrubbing brush, rinse with clean water, and wipe dry. This mode has the additional advantage of keeping away vermin. BOILS.—Bring these tumours to a head by hot poultices of camo- mile flowers or white lily root, fermenting with hot water, or by a plaster of shoemakers’ wax. When ripe prick the centre with a needle or slit it with a lancet, and apply bread poultices till the discharge is cleared away. Purify the blood with a course of medicine. BONE, To Stain—See Ivory, Horn, and Bone. BOOK-EDGES, To Gild.—Press the leaves tightly together, cut them even, and scrape them smooth ; size them with isinglass glue mixed up with spirits of wine, then apply gold leaf, and when quite dry buniish with a blood-stone or dog’s-tooth. BOOKS, To Keep Damp from Injuring.—A few drops of any per- fumed oil will prevent books from being injured by damp. This remedy was well known and appreciated by the Romans, who employed oil of cedar to preserve their valuable manuscripts. BOOTS, To Keep them Soft.—If boots are rubbed occasionally with neat's foot oil the leather will be kept soft and will wear very much longer than if this precaution were not taken. Boots that are hard from wet may be made pliable by rubbing them with paraffin. BOOT TOPS, To Clean.—Oxalic acid, one ounce; salts of lemon, one ounce ; cuttle-fish bone, one ounce ; cream of tartar, one ounce. Mix. Apply with a sponge. BOOTS, Varnish for.—To two pints of vinegar and one of water, add half a pound of logwood chips, a quarter of a pound of glue, a quarter of an ounce of finely-powdered indigo, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, and a quarter of an ounce of soft soap. Put the whole into a pot and boil them together for ten minutes, then strain the liquor. When cold it is ready for use. Wash the boots free from dirt, allow them to dry, and apply the varnish with a sponge. BOOTS, WATERPROOFING FOR.—See Waterproofing for Boots and Shoes. BORAGE, To Cultivate.—This herb is raised in spring, summer, and autumn from seed sown where the plants are intended to remain, and thinned out from six to ten inches apart. BOSTON CREAM.—Loaf sugar, one pound; essence of lemon, ten drops ; tartaric acid, two ounces ; boiling water, two quarts. To be well beaten when lukewarm, bottle when cold. One wineglassful in a tumbler of water, with a little carbonate of soda, makes a refreshing drink. BOTTLES, To Clean.—Discolorations from wine, green marks from vegetation, &c., may be removed from bottles in the following manner :—Put into the bottle a raw potato cut into small pieces, with a tablespoonful of salt and twice that amount of water ; shake well until theai stains are removed, then rinse in clear water. Stains of all kinds may be removed by rinsing the bottles first with muriatic acid (spirits of salt), and afterwards with clear water. BOTTLE WAX, To Make.—Mix a pound of beeswax with a pound of resin and half a pound of tallow ; add red or yellow ochre, or other colouring matter, and melt the whole together, stirring until they are well incorporated. If white wax be desired use bleached wax in the place of the ordinary beeswax, and add a little Spanish white. BOUQUET, To Preserve a.—First sprinkle it lightly with fresh water, then put it into a vessel containing soap suds. Take the bouquet out of the suds every morning, and lay it sideways (the stock entering first) into clean water, keep it there a couple of minutes, then take it out and sprinkle the flowers lightly with water. Replace it in the soap suds and it will be as fresh as when first gathered. The suds must be changed every three days. If carefully treated in this way, wedding and other bouquets may be kept bright for at least a month. BOWELS, Composing Mixture for the.—Tincture of opii, four drams ; sal volatile, four drams ; essence of ginger, four drams ; essence of peppermint, four drams. Take half a teaspoonful in half a wineglass of water. This mixture is good for wind in the stomach, pains, sinking sensation, low spirits, &c. BOWELS, Laxity of the, with Pain.—Brandy, half a quartern; syrup of rhubarb, one ounce and a half ; tincture of rhubarb, one ounce ; essence of peppermint, three-quarters of an ounce ; laudanum, a quarter of an ounce. Dose : A dessert-spoonful in a glass of warm water. BRANDY BALLS.—Proceed as directed for the making of barley sugar, taking small pieces while hot, and rolling them up into small round balls about the size of a Spanish nut. BRAN TEA.—Put a handful of bran in a pint and a half of cold water, boil it for an hour and three-quarters, then strain, and flavour with sugar and lemon juice. This is a very cheap and useful drink in colds, fevers, and restlessness from pain. BRASS AND COPPER, To Whiten.—Take some white tartar, alum, and grain tin, and boil the articles therein. They will soon acquire a coating of tin, which, when well polished, will have the appearance of silver. BRASS-WORK, To Clean.—If very dirty, first wash and scrub it with soda or potash lye, then dip it into a mixture of equal parts of nitric acid, sulphuric acid, and water ; or, if it cannot conveniently be immersed, make a small swab of woollen cloth on the end of a stick and rub the solution over the brass ; leave the acid on for a moment, then wash clean and polish. If not very dirty it may be cleaned with oxalic acid only. BRAWN.—Rub a pig’s head with a mixture of three parts salt and one part saltpetre, and let it lie in the pickle for two or three days ; then boil it till the meat leaves the bones ; season with pepper and salt, put it while hot into a mould, press it down with a weight for a few hours, and boil for one hour longer. Previous to putting the meat into the mould, the tongue should be cut into slices and interspersed with the other parts. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.—Butter a dish well; then lay in a few slices of thin bread and butter. Boil a pint of milk, pour it over two eggs, well beaten, and then on the bread and butter! Bake in a brisk oven for half an hour. Currants or raisins may be added. BREAD (BROWN), To Make.—Mix three parts of seconds flour and the fourth part of rye, lay it in a cool place for a night, and the23 next morning work it up with a little milk added to sufficient water, and a little yeast. Set it before the fire to rise, then make into loaves, and bake. Time, from one to two hours, according to weight. BREAD, French Method of Making.—Beat up the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, and mix them with a quarter of a peck of flour, a little salt, a pint of yeast, and as much warm milk as will make it into a light dough. Stir it about with a wooden spoon ; place the dough in wooden dishes to rise, then turn the loaves into a quick oven. Rasp when done. BREAD PUDDING, A Superior.—Dry and roll fine a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs ; add a teacupful of sugar, a quart of milk, a teaspoonful of ginger, a little salt, three eggs (saving out the whites of two). When baked, spread fruit jelly over the top, then a frosting made of the whites of the eggs and a tablespoonful of sugar. Return to the oven until slightly browned. BREAD (SHORT), Scotch Method of Making.—Mix to a cream half a pound of butter and from four to six ounces of sugar ; add a pound of fine flour, knead, roll it into cakes half an inch thick, and bake in a slow oven. BREAD (SHORT), To Make.—Mix together one pound and a quarter of flour, half a pound of finely sifted white sugar, and a large tea- spoonful of baking powder ; then rub in half a pound of shortening and mix the whole with three eggs, previously well beaten, and a little essence of lemon. Make into ounce cakes of an oval shape, ornament the edges, put a piece of candied peel on the top, and bake slowly. BREAD, To Detect Adulterations in.—Make the blade of a knife very hot and thrust it into a loaf one day old. If alum is present it will adhere to the knife in very small particles and will give off a peculiar smell. The presence of this salt may be suspected when the bread is ex- tremely white and when it becomes very brittle upon being toasted. The adulteration by the farina of peas and beans may be detected by pouring boiling water over a piece of the bread, when the odour of those grains will be manifest. Chalk, plaster of Paris, or mineral powder mixed with the flour may be discovered in the following manner :—Place a portion of the crumb of the loaf in an earthen jar with water, and let it simmer slowly for two or three hours. Remove with a spoon the whole of the pap and let the water stand till it is quite cold, then pour it off very gently. If the bread is adulterated with any of these articles a chalky sediment will be left behind in the jar. Or pour boiling water upon the bread, and add a little sulphuric acid ; if chalk be present an effervescence ensues. BREAD, To Make.—Put a quartern of flour and a dessert-spoonful of salt into a pan ; make a hole in the middle of the meal, but not quite to the bottom of the pan, and then mix two tablespoonfuls of yeast with half a pint of warm water, and pour it into the hole. Stir it until a thin batter is obtained. Sprinkle this over with flour, cover the pan with a cloth and let it stand in the warm for an hour or so, then add a pint of milk-warm water and knead the whole well together till the dough comes clean through the hand ; let it stand for another quarter of an hour, and then it will be ready for baking. BREAKFAST CAKES.—Take two pounds of flour, two break- fast-cupfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, one teaspoonful of tartaric acid, a teaspoonful and a half of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, and two eggs, the whites being beaten up first. Put the carbonate of soda in the milk and add the eggs. All the other ingredients are mixed in dry ; the liquid is then poured lightly into the centre, beaten up with a fork, and put, without moulding, quite moist in cakes on a tin to bake.23 BREASTS (STUBBORN), To Relieve.—Dissolve half an ounce of camphor in two ounces of olive oil. Rub the lotion gently upon the tender part ; it will prove very soothing. BREASTS, To Soften Hard Swellings of the.—Roast a turnip till soft, then mash it, mix it with a little sweet oil, put it between warm flannel, and apply as hot as can be borne, changing the poultice twice a day. BREATH (OFFENSIVE), Lozenges for.—Gum kino, half an ounce; catechu, one ounce; white sugar, three ounces ; orris powder, three-quarters of an ounce. Make into a paste with mucilage, and add a drop of neroli. BREATH (OFFENSIVE), To Purify.—Take the first thing in the morning from six to ten drops of the concentrated solution of potash mixed in a wineglassful of pure water.—See also Onions, To Remove the Smell of. BREATH (SHORT), To Relieve.—Vitriolated spirits of ether, one ounce ; camphor, twelve grains. Of these make a solution, and take a spoonful during the paroxysm. It gives instant relief. BREECHES (WHITE), Paste for.—Put some pipeclay into an earthen vessel with sufficient water to form a thick paste, adding likewise a little powdered blue. When required to use the paste, get enough boiled milk to rub on the top of the pipeclay till it becomes of the thickness of cream. Lay it evenly on the breeches, and turn them inside out to dry. BRIMSTONE AND TREACLE.—Sulphur, one ounce and a half; cream of tartar, half an ounce ; treacle, half a pound. Mix. From a teaspoonful to a dessert-spoonful to be given early in the morning, three times a week. BRITANNIA METAL, To Clean.—Articles made of this metal are most readily cleaned by washing them with a brush dipped in hot soap-suds into which has been poured a teaspoonful of ammonia, then rinsing them in hot water, wiping dry with a soft cloth, and polishing with a chamois leather. If very dirty they may be rubbed with rotten-stone and water, then with a mixture of oil and whiting, and lastly with dry whiting. BROCCOLI,To Grow.—Sow some seed about the first week in April and more in the middle of May ; plant out in summer in best rich ground, in rows, two or three feet asunder. A few of the Cape varieties may be sown in June. These latter will produce a supply from October to Christ- mas. The same sort sown in July and August will yield a supply in April and May. Many of the White Broccoli, if sown at three different times, from the first week in June to the last, will give a supply from Michaelmas to Christmas ; the later sorts will be in perfection from February to April from seed sown the preceding year. BROCCOLI, To Pickle.—Proceed in precisely the same manner as is hereafter directed for cauliflowers. BRONCHIAL AFFECTIONS, To Relieve.—Persons suffering from bronchitis will find great relief by inhaling the steam of hot water into which has been dropped a little ether, or a spoonful of ordinary medicine for relieving the complaint. Much benefit will also be experienced by keeping a kettle of water constantly boiling over the fire and allowing the steam to flow freely into the room. A cheap and easy method of obtaining this result is by attaching a foot of tin tubing to the spout of the kettle. BRONZE, To Renovate and Re-colour.—Free the articles from all dust and grease and apply with a cloth a mixture of one part of muriatic acid and two parts of water. When dry, polish with sweet oil. BRONZING FOR ZINC OR TIN CASTINGS.—Dissolve one ounce of sulphate of iron and one ounce of sulphate of copper in a pint of water ; apply to the surfaces of the articles and let them dry. Then dis-24 solve two ounces of verdigris in a gill of strong vinegar; apply, and, when dry, polish with a soft brush and plumbago or crocus martis (colcothar). BROSE (SCOTCH).—Put half a pint of oatmeal into a porringer, with a little salt if necessary ; add as much of the liquor in which meat has been boiled as will make it the consistence of hasty pudding, or a little thicker ; then take some of the fat that swims on the broth, put it on the crowdie, and eat in the same way as hasty pudding. BRUISES OR ULCERS.—The application of tincture of opium is highly recommended for either of the above. The following is also a good application for bruises :—Iodine, twelve grains ; lard or spermaceti ointment, half an ounce. To be rubbed on two or three times a day. BRUNSWICK BLACK.—Melt one pound of commonasphaltum and add half a pint of linseed oil and one quart of oil of turpentine. This may be thinned down to any extent by adding more turpentine. BRUSSELS SPROUTS, To Cook.—Put them into boiling water with a small piece of soda, let them boil for a quarter of an hour, then add a little salt, and boil ten minutes longer. Drain, and serve with melted butter. BRUSSELS SPROUTS, To Grow.—A good rich soil is indis- pensable to the growth of these fine winter greens. Sow the seed thinly the second week in March, and for succession about the middle of April. When sufficiently strong, plant them out in rows two feet apart and eighteen inches from plant to plant. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.—Cut some cold boiled beef into slices, sprinkle them with pepper, and fry in a little butter to a light brown. Boil a cabbage, or a cauliflower, squeeze it dry, chop it small, and fry it for a few moments with a little salt. When done, serve the cabbage in the middle of the dish and lay the slices of beef round. BUGS, To Destroy.—The application of a little petroleum or paraffin to their resorts will effectually destroy these house vermin ; or a small quantity of turpentine or corrosive sublimate applied with a brush to the crevices of the furniture will produce the desired result. BULBS, To Force at any Season.—Half fill a flower-pot with quicklime, then fill it up with fine mould, plant the bulb, and keep the earth constantly moist. BULLFINCHES.—Feed on rape seed and German paste, with an occasional yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a little poppy seed, and a few grains of rice. They may be taught to pipe by means of a mouth organ or a flageolet. The young birds require to be kept very warm, and to be fed on rape seed, scalded, bruised, and soaked in milk. BUNIONS, Ointment for.—To half an ounce of spermaceti ointment or lard add twelve grains of iodine. Rub the mixture on two or three times a day. BUNIONS, Plaster for.—Melt together equal quantities of Bur- gundy pitch and yellow soap ; spread the mixture upon linen or soft leather, and apply. BUNS (BATH).—Beat up the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, and add thereto a quarter of a pound of flour and two dessert- spoonfuls of solid fresh yeast. Place it in front of the fire, and as soon, as it has well risen add ten ounces of butter rubbed into one pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, and a few carraway comfits. Cover it with a cloth and again set it before the fire to rise. Then form the buns, brush the tops over with egg and milk, cover them with carraway comfits, and bake in a quick oven.25 BUNS (GRETNA).—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add a gill of yeast, and sufficient water to form a dough. Set it to rise, form into cakes, and bake on greased tins in a sharp oven. BUNS (HOT CROSS), To Make.—Yeast, one ounce and a half; milk, one pint ; sugar, half a pound ; flour, half a pound ; hot water, one pint. Mix, and stand it in a warm place for twenty minutes, or till it rises and falls again. Then rub half a pound of butter or lard into three pounds of flour, and add twelve drops of essence of spice. Mix the whole together. Stand the dough in a warm place till it rises, then form into buns, place in flat tins, cross the dough with the back of a knife, make the buns rise by means of steam, and bake in a sharp oven for five or six minutes. BURNET, To Propagate.—This small culinary and salad herb may be increased by seed sown in April, by slips, or by parting the roots in spring or autumn, and setting them six to nine inches apart. BURNS AND SCALDS.—Pour white of egg over the wTound. This will prevent inflammation and exclude the air, and so remove the extreme discomfort experienced from accidents of this kind. BURNS AND SCALDS, Liniment for.—Put into a bottle equal quantities of linseed or Florence oil and lime-water ; shake well together ; soak a piece of lint in the mixture, and apply two or three times a day. BURNS AND SCALDS, Ointment for.—Mix as much prepared chalk as possible into some lard, so that it forms a thick ointment. BURNS, Brown-paper Oil for.—Dip some thick brown paper in salad oil, put it upon a plate, and set it alight. Apply the oil that is left upon the plate. BURNS, Cerate for.—Melt together half a pound of yellow wax and a pint of olive oil. When the mixture begins to thicken, add it to half a pound of prepared calamine, and stir till cold. BURNS FROM LIME, To Treat.—Bathe with vinegar and water, then apply chalk mixed with linseed oil to the consistence of treacle, and renew the application from time to time. BURNS FROM VITRIOL OR OTHER ACIDS.—Sponge the part as quickly as possible with lime-water, whiting and water, car- bonate of soda and water, or chalk and water. If nothing else be handy use old mortar mixed with water. Then apply a mixture of chalk and oil. BURNS, Plaster for.—Mix sufficient linseed oil with common whiting to form a piaster, and apply to the injured part. The pain will subside and a skin will speedily form. BUTTER (MELTED), French Method of Making.—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, half a gill of water, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. Set it over the fire to thicken, but do not let it boil, as it might taste of the flour. BUTTER (MELTED), To Make.—Beat up two ounces of butter and a dessert-spoonful of flour with two tablespoonfuls of milk and a little pepper and salt. When thoroughly mixed add two tablespoonfuls of water (or a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, according to the purpose for which it is required), set it on the fire, and stir till it is as thick as good cream. It should not be allowed to boil. BUTTER (RANCID), To Sweeten.—Dissolve a little lime in water. Take some of the water off when clear, wash the butter in it and then wash it again in clear water. It may likewise be restored by melting it in a bath of water, with some coarsely-powdered animal charcoal (which has been thoroughly sifted from dust), and afterwards straining it through a flannel 526 Perhaps the most effectual way of rendering it sweet is by washing it first in new milk and afterwards in spring water, as the butyric acid which causes the rancidity is freely soluble in fresh milk. BUTTER (SALT), To Freshen.—Salt butter may be made fresh by churning it with new milk, in the proportion of a quart of milk to a pound of butter. BUTTER, To Clarify.—Put the butter into a stew-pan and stand it by the side of a clear fire till the scum rises to the top and the milk settles at the bottom, then carefully remove all the scum with a spoon ; when clear it is fit for use. BUTTER, To Preserve.—Experiments have proved that it is the quantity of milk which is left in the butter that goes bad, therefore if this is extracted the butter does not become rancid. The milk may be effectu- ally extracted by placing the butter on a dish and immersing it in hot water. As it dissolves the milk falls to the bottom, while the pure butter floats on the top. Pour off the butter, and after it has set add a little salt. It will then keep good for an indefinite period. BUTTER, To Preserve, in Summer.—Pour a quart of boiling water on to two pounds of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of loaf sugar. Let it stand till cold, strain, and put the butter into the clear pickle. By this means it may be kept sweet and firm through the hottest months of the year. CABBAGE (PICKLED).—Choose a cabbage of a dark copper colour and pointed in shape. Pick off the outside leaves, wipe it dry, and cut it in thin slices ; put in a pan a layer of salt and a layer of cabbage alternately ; let it stand for twenty-four hours, drain, and spread about in a large broad dish ; pour boiling water over the whole ; let it stand a couple of minutes, then drain, and let it remain till quite cold. Fill the jars, and pour on cold spiced vinegar; tie down. In three days it will be fit for eating. The spices usually employed are allspice, black pepper, capsicums, ginger, and mustard-seed. The most economical plan is to bruise the spice and simmer it in the vinegar before using. To ensure a beautiful pink colour use acetic acid reduced to the strength of vinegar by adding water (one part to seven), adding a modicum of spice to each jar. CABBAGE SOUP.—Wash and cut a cabbage into small pieces, throw it into a quart of water, add two or three potatoes, chopped fine, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a couple of ounces of fat pork or bacon. Boil for three or four hours. Serve with sippets. The above forms a cheap and nutritious food for a large family. CABBAGE, To Boil.—Cut off the outside leaves, pick and wash it well, nick the stalk in quarters, and lay it in salt and water for a quarter of an hour. Put into plenty of boiling water with a handful of salt and a small piece of soda, and boil it fast till tender. When done drain it in a colander, press it very gently, cut it in half, and serve with melted butter. CABBAGES, To Grow.—Sow the seeds of the earlier kinds about the end of February or March. The larger or later sorts may be sown in April and afterwards transplanted to a distance of two and a half feet asunder ; they will be ready to cut from October to December. A sowing may be made in August to stand the winter for spring and early summer use. Red Dutch, for pickling, is best if sown in the autumn, but plants may be raised in the spring. All cabbages require good soil with plenty of manure. CABINET PUDDING.—Well butter a plain round mould or basin and stick a quantity of Smyrna raisins round the interior ; then about three parts fill the mould with sponge cake, interspersing two ounces of ratafias, over which pour a good glass of brandy ; fill up the mould with27 a light custard, and put a band of buttered paper round the edge. Place the pudding in a stew-pan, with about two inches depth of boiling water cover a sheet of paper over, and simmer gently over the fire until the pudding is quite firm, keeping the stew-pan closely covered all the time. Take it out, detach the paper, turn the mould over upon a dish, and serve with sauce. CABINET PUDDING, Sauce for.—Put into a saucepan half a pint of melted butter, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and add a glassful of brandy, the juice of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it ; stir over the fire until it becomes rather thick, then pass it through a strainer and pour it over the pudding. CAKE, A Light.—Take one pound of butter, work it till soft, gradually mixing with it one pound of sugar ; then beat up the yolks of six eggs and put with the butter and sugar ; add half a pint of milk, a pound of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Mix well, and bake in a slow oven. CAKE (CURRANT), A Rich.—Flour, one pound and a quarter; sugar and butter, of each one pound ; baking powder, half a teaspoonful; essence of lemon, two teaspoonfuls ; candied orange and lemon peel, of each one pound ; currants, one pound ; raisins, one pound ; eggs, one dozen ; brandy, one wineglassful. Bake three hours. CAKES, Browning for.—Put into a saucepan half a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of butter, and a little water. Simmer gently till brown. Used to impart a rich colour to cakes. CAKE (SEED).—Rub four ounces of lard or butter into a pound of flour ; add five ounces of sugar, half an ounce of carraway seeds, a tea- spoonful of baking powder, a few drops of essence of lemon, and a pinch of salt; mix well; then beat up two eggs with one-third of a pint of milk ; add to the rest, and bake at once in a moderately hot oven until a skewer inserted into the cake will come out quite clean. The addition of more sugar and butter will make a richer cake. CAKE (SHORT), To Make a.—Rub into a pound of flour a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and one whole egg. Mix into a paste with a little milk, and bake on tins. A few currants or carraway seeds may be added to the paste. CAKE (SODA).—Rub an ounce and a half of butter and three drams of bicarbonate of soda into a pound and a half of flour ; then dis- solve an ounce and a half of sugar in twenty ounces of milk, and add to the other ingredients, with three drams of muriatic acid. Mix the whole intimately and bake in a tin. A few currants may be added at pleasure. CAKES, On the Mixing of.—Cakes, puddings, &c., are always improved^by making the currants, sugar, and flour hot before using them. CALCEOLARIAS.—These elegant plants are divided into two species, the shrubby and the herbaceous. The former make very effective bedding plants during summer, the latter are better suited for the green- house. They all require a large proportion of leaf-mould in their soil, and to be well supplied with water. The shrubby calceolarias are readily propagated by cuttings taken during August and kept through the winter in a cold frame. The herbaceous kinds are multiplied by separation of the stool as well as by seed. The two varieties hybridise freely together. CALF’S FEET BROTH.—Put into a stew-pan two calf’s feet, half a pound of veal, half a pound of beef, a little mace, pepper and salt ; pour upon them three quarts of water, and simmer down to three pints • remove the fat, and strain the liquor. ’ CALF’S HEAD (BOILED).—Take one pound of fat bacon, and the same weight of beef suet, cut them into dice, add half a pound of28 butter, the juice of a lemon, one or two onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, bay leaves, cloves, mace, allspice, salt and pepper, and suffi- cient water to cover the calf’s head, and boil for one hour. Meanwhile, remove the bones of the lower jaw and the nose, cutting off as close to the eyes as possible. Wash the head in cold water, scald it with boiling water, and let it cool. Fold it in a clean cloth, and boil it in the liquor for about three hours. When done, drain ; cut out the tongue, flay it, then replace it. Serve hot with sauce made from a few shalots, chopped very fine, minced parsley, pepper and salt, vinegar and water, and the brains well minced. CALF’S HEAD, To Carve.—Cut slices from across the cheek, and when this is all served take the meat from any other part where it is found. With each slice serve a portion of the tongue, which is sent to table separately with brain sauce. CALF’S HEART (BAKED).—Stuff the heart with minced suet, bread crumbs, yolk of egg, sweet marjoram, a little grated lemon peel, spice, pepper, and salt ; bake in the oven, and serve with melted butter, or gravy, and red currant jelly. CALF’S HEART (BROILED).—Cut the heart open, and broil it over a clear fire ; spread a bit of butter over it, put it in a dish, and pour over it a gill of mushroom ketchup. Serve very hot. CAMOMILE TEA.—Put an ounce of camomile flowers into a quart of boiling water; let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain. From a wineglassful to a breakfast-cupful to be taken as a dose. When taken warm it acts as an emetic ; when cold, as a tonic. CANARIES, Asthma in.—Protect the birds from draughts; cover the cage over when the gas is lighted, and at night stand it on a stool or box, about a foot from the floor. Feed the pets on millet, linseed, or maw mixed with canary seed, but avoid giving hemp seed. Ripe plantain and the flowers of dandelion may be given with advantage. Put a pinch of carbonate of magnesia in the water, and if the wheezing is very marked mix ten drops of tincture of henbane and the same quantity of antimonial wine in an ounce of water and give it in the place of clear water. As moulting time approaches put a piece of ripe apple between the bars of the cage for the birds to peck at. CANARIES, Food for.—The principal food of the canary consists of brown rape and canary seed. In the spring its diet may be relieved by a little dandelion and chickweed ; in summer by some lettuce leaves and the flowers of plantain, with an occasional sound ripe strawberry or cherry ; in the autumn by a little endive or a small sprig of watercress, and in the winter by a slice or two of sweet apple. During the moulting season mix a little morse seed with the rape and put a few grains of saffron or a rusty nail in the drinking water. CANARIES, To Distinguish the Sexes.—A male bird may most readily be distinguished from a hen while it is in the act of singing ; its throat exhibits a pulse-like heaving which is scarcely perceptible in the female. CANARIES, Treatment of.—To preserve the plumage intact a cage should be selected having a diameter of at least ten inches with a minimum height of a foot. Care must be taken to keep the cage scrupu- lously clean, and a fresh layer of gravel put down every day. Provide a narrow vessel filled with water to serve as a bath, so that the drinking water may be kept clear. Place the cage in a warm situation where it can receive a good supply of fresh air but at the same time be screened from all draughts. During the winter keep the bird in a warm room, but even at that period of the year the windows maybe opened when the sun shines.29 A piece of sugar may be placed between the bars of the cage for the bird to clean its beak on. The perches must be kept particularly clean, other- wise their feet will become diseased. CANARIES, Treatment of Young.—Boil some rape seed, wash it in fresh water, press it to a pulp, and place it in the feeding trough. Next take both the yolk and the white of an egg, boiled hard, mix it with sopped bread, beat the whole together and put it into a separate vessel in the cage. Fresh food must be made each day. When the birds attain the age of one month they should be put into separate cages. CANDIED PEEL (CITRON).—Remove the bitterness of the peel by soaking it in several waters, the final one to be warm ; drain, and cover with a syrup made of loaf sugar and water ; when transparent, drain dry. CANDIED PEEL (LEMON AND ORANGE).—Immerse the peel in a bath of salt and water for four or five days, then take it out, wash it in clear water, and boil till tender. Next make a syrup by boiling loaf sugar in water—three pounds of sugar to a pint of water—add the peel and boil till candied, then remove it from the syrup and dust with caster sugar. The flavour may be regulated by adding cinnamon, mace, or cloves to the syrup. CANE-BOTTOMED CHAIRS, To Clean.—Put a handful of salt into some hot soap-suds, and well wash the cane-work with a sponge. Dry in the open air ; when the cane will become as tight and firm as new. CANTHARIDES, Tincture of.—To each dram of powdered cantharides add one ounce of proof spirit, and let them stand for one week. CAPERS, To Preserve.—Half fill a bottle with capers. Scald some vinegar, and, when cold, pour it upon the capers ; use sound corks, and cover them with bottle-wax to keep out the air. CAPSICUM, To Cultivate.—All the different kinds of capsicums are tender annuals. Sow the seed in a hot-bed in March or April, and plant out in May or early in June at a distance of twelve inches. They will produce an abundance of pods for use in July, August, and September, being first green and ripening to a bright red. CARAMEL, for Colouring Meat or Sauce.—Take a piece of sugar the size of a walnut, place it in a saucepan to brown over the fire, and add gradually a cupful of stock. Apply it to the meat with a feather. A few drops are sufficient to colour sauce. CARDBOARD (WATERPROOF).—See Waterproof Card- board. CARNATIONS, PINKS, AND PICOTEES.—These effective flowers may be raised from seed sown during May in pots of very light, rich soil, keeping the seedlings well sheltered, but admitting plenty of air. When the plants have put forth five or six leaves plant them out in the open, about ten inches apart, in a compost of calcareous loam, silver sand, leaf mould, and rotted cow dung, protecting them from the frost as winter approaches. They will bloom the following summer. 1'he best way of propagating carnations, however, is by layers. Select a shoot, trim off all the leaves with the exception of five or six, make an incision half-way through the shoot, from a joint upwards, and peg it securely into the soil, placing beneath it a little gray sand and keeping the incision open with a piece of wood ; cover it with earth, let it rest for a couple of days, then give it a plentiful supply of water. Pinks are generally increased by piping, that is, the ends of shoots are broken off at a joint, and placed in ground containing a mixture of silver sand and leaf mould. They are then covered with a hand-glass and allowed to take root.30 CARP (BROILED).—Remove the scales, and take away the gills, without damaging the tongue, which is considered one of the most delicate parts of the fish then make a small incision in the neck and another in the belly, and draw out the roe, guts, and intestines ; wash away all the blood, and dry well. Split both sides of the back, and lay the fish in vinegar and water, or in oil, with pepper and salt, for an hour and a half ; then place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, and when done thoroughly on both sides, serve with caper sauce into which has been poured a spoonful of essence of anchovies. CARP (FRIED).—Scale and cleanse the fish, wipe it dry, remove the back-bone, and lay it for a couple of hours in vinegar and water with a little shalot, garlic, allspice, whole pepper, salt, and a bay leaf; then drain, dredge it with flour, and fry quickly. Serve with fried parsley. CARP (STEWED).—Partly fry the fish, then put it into a stew- pan with a couple of glasses of port wine, half a pint of water, a little lemon juice and ketchup, an onion, two or three cloves, and some cayenne pepper. Stew till the gravy is thick, then remove the fish, strain the gravy, thicken it with flour, and pour it over the fish. CARPETS, To Clean.—To a pailful of cold water add three gills of ox-gall. Rub it into the carpet with a soft brush ; wash the lather off with cold water, and dry with a clean cloth. Fullers' earth is also often used to clease them from dirt, the colours being afterward revived by a weak solution of alum or soda. CARPETS, To Remove Grease from.—Dissolve a little soap in warm water and add half an ounce of borax to each gallon of water used. Wash the stained part thoroughly with a clean cloth and the grease will soon disappear. Another method : Boil together equal parts of fullers’ earth and ox-gall, lay the mixture while hot upon the damaged portion, and let it remain on for eight or ten hours. CARRACK.—See Sauce (Indian), CARROTS (BOILED).—Wash and scrape off the outside ; if large cut them down the centre ; put them into boiling water with a little salt, and let them boil till tender. If very young, one hour will suffice, bu> if full grown they require to boil for two or three hours. CARROT PUDDING.—Scrape a large carrot, boil it soft, rub it through a sieve, and mix it with a spoonful of biscuit powder, two eggs, a pint of cream, a little mixed spice, and two ounces of sugar ; flavour with ratafia and orange-flower water, and bake in a shallow dish. Dust it over with sugar before it is served. CARROT SOUP. — Scrape half a dozen large, rich-coloured carrots, cut them into thin slices, and stew them in two quarts of rich stock ; when quite tender force them through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; re-boil the red pulp with the stock until it is thick, add a little powdered white sugar, and season with salt and cayenne pepper. CARROTS, To Grow.—These roots require a light, sandy, well- manured, and deeply-dug soil to grow them to perfection. Seed may be sown, on a slight hot-bed, of a few of the early French and scarlet norn varieties during January and February, but for a general crop the middle of April is the best time to put in the seed. CASHMERE (BLACK), To Renovate.—Put a pint of good ale into two quarts of hot water, and sponge the material well all over. Hang it up, and when nearly dry iron it on the wrong side. It will look equal to new. It may likewise be washed in hot suds with a little borax in the water rinse in bluing water—very blue—and iron while damp.3i CASTOR OIL, To Take.—One excellent method of taking this useful but obnoxious medicine is to pour some water into a glass, then add the oil, and cover it with a small quantity of brandy. It is likewise administered in coffee or mutton broth ; or it may be suspended in water by the intervention of mucilage or yolk of egg, according to taste. Another method is to put sufficient hot milk into a large wineglass to one-third fill it, put in the oil, then pour upon it enough milk to fill the glass. If swallowed at a gulp the oil will not be tasted. CATERPILLARS, To Destroy.—Syringe the plants with a decoction of tobacco, or a solution of alum, and afterwards sweep or scrape ud the surface of the soil on to which the insects have fallen. * CATERPILLARS, To Trap.—Pin a few pieces of woollen stuff in the trees or bushes that are attacked by the insects. The caterpillars will settle upon them in the night and may be destroyed in large quantities early in the morning. CATTLE, To Ascertain the Weight of.—Measure the girt close behind the shoulder, and the length from the fore part of the shoulder- blade along the back to the bone at the tail which is in a verticle line with the buttock, both in feet. Multiply the square of the girt, expressed in feet, by five times the length, and divide the product by 21 ; the quotient is the weight, nearly, of the four quarters, in imperial stones of i4lbs. avoirdupois. For example, if the girt be 6 feet, and the length 5! feet, we shall have 6 x 6 = 36, and 5J x 5 = 26$ ; then 36 x 26 J = 945, and this, divided by twenty-one, gives 45 stones exactly. It is to be observed, how- ever, that in very fat cattle the four quarters will be about one-twendeth more, while in those in a very lean state they will be one-twentieth less than the weight obtained by the rule. The four quarters are only a little more than half the weight of the living animal ; the skin weighing about the eighteenth part, and the tallow the twelfth part of the whole. CAULIFLOWERS (BOILED).—Trim them neatly, and lay them in cold water for an hour, then put them into boiling water with a handful of salt, and let them boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, skimming the water occasionally. Take them up the moment they are done. A little flour or milk added to the water in which they are boiled will make them white. Serve with melted butter. CAULIFLOWERS, To Pickle.—Choose full-sized, firm plants; Eare off the leaves, and cut away the stalk ; pull off the flowers in small unches, and steep them in brine for a couple of days, then drain, wipe them dry, and put into a pan of vinegar, in every quart of which three ounces of curry powder has been infused for three days. CAULIFLOWERS, To Preserve.—Take the plants up a day or two before they are full grown, and when they are perfectly dry take off the large under-leaves, lay them in rows in a dry shed, and cover the roots of each row with dry earth, laying them sideways, with the crown of the second row close to the underleaves of the first, and so on till the whole are stored. Protect them with litter during frosty weather, but remove the covering as soon as the frost breaks up, and clear away all decayed leaves as they appear. They may be kept in this manner from the end of October till the end of January. CAULIFLOWERS, To Raise.—These are grown in successional crops. Sow the seed in a warm situation from the middle to the end of August, and transplant to a dry, sheltered border. For a succeeding crop, sow at the end of January or beginning of February in a frame on p. slight heat, so that the plants may be hardened off by April, and transplanted at a distance of two and a half feet from each other. From this sowing they3* will produce heads in July and August. Continue to make small sowings at intervals to the end of May. Cauliflowers require a rich earth. CAULIFLOWER WITH PARMESAN.—Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk so that the flower will stand upright a couple of inches above the dish. Stew it for a few minutes with a little white sauce ; put it on a dish, pour the sauce round, and grate Parmesan cheese over the top. Colour w'ith a salamander, and serve. CAYENNE PEPPER (ENGLISH), To Make.—Place the pods of chillies before the fire for about ten hours, and when they are perfectly dry pound them in a mortar with their weight of salt. When reduced to a very fine powder, secure in stoppered bottles. CELERY, Essence of.—Infuse the root of the plant for twenty-four hours in spirits of wine or brandy, then remove it and steep more root in the liquor until the desired strength is obtained. A few drops of the essence will suffice to flavour soups, &c. CELERY SOUP.—Wash and scrape a head of celery and put it into a pint of boiling water with a little salt. Let it boil until soft, then mash it fine in the water, and pass it through a soup-strainer. Turn this into a pint of hot milk that has been thickened by having a tablespoonful of flour wet with cold milk cooked in it; add a teaspoonful of salt, the same amount of pepper, and two ounces of butter. As soon as the butter is melted, stir the soup quickly for a few moments, and serve hot. This makes a most delicious dish. CELERY, To Grow.—Sow the seed in a moderate hot-bed at the end of February for an early crop, and again in March and April for suc- cessive ones ; prick out in a well-prepared bed of old dung, and transplant in June and July into trenches, water freely, but avoid earthing up while the soil or plants are in a wet state. CEMENT, A Weatherproof.—The following composition may be recommended as a good protection against water and weather :—Mix two gallons of brine with a gallon of water ; then stir in two pounds and a half of brown sugar and three pounds of common salt. Apply with a brush, like paint. The above is also, to a certain extent, a protection against fire. CEMENT (DIAMOND), for China, &c.—Soak isinglass in water till it is soft, then dissolve it in the smallest possible quantity of proof spirit, by the aid of a gentle heat. In each ounce of this mixture dissolve five grains of ammoniacum, and while still liquid add the quarter of a dram of rectified spirit; stir well together, and put it into bottles. When required for use liquefy the cement by standing the bottle in hot water and use it at once. CEMENT FOR BLACK SATIN, &c.—Mix lamp black and brown hard varnish together until the required consistence is obtained. Apply sparingly. CEMENT FOR CHINA.—Make a thick solution of gum arabic with warm water, and stir in plaster of Paris. Use while warm and set the article away for two or three days to dry. It cannot be broken again in the same place. CEMENT FOR CISTERNS.—Add sufficient boiled linseed oil to equal parts of white and red lead to produce a thin paste. Spread this over the metal and allow it to thoroughly dry. CEMENT FOR EARTHEN WARE. — To half a pint of vinegar add half a pint of skimmed milk ; mix the curd with the whites of six eggs, well beaten, and sufficient powdered quicklime to form a paste. This preparation will resist the action of water and a moderate amount of heat.33 CEMENT FOR FASTENING LABELS ON TIN BOXES. -Mucilage of tragacanth, ten parts ; honey, ten parts, and dry wheaten flour, one part CEMENT FOR GLASS OR EARTHENWARE.—Mix together in an iron saucepan two parts of gum shellac and one part of Venice turpentine. When sufficiently cool form into sticks, which must be melted before a gentle fire when wanted for use. Great caution must be used in the preparation of this cement, as turpentine is very inflammable. Or, dissolve half an ounce of gum acacia in a wineglass of boiling water ; add sufficient plaster of Paris to make a thick paste, and apply it with a brush to the fractured parts. The white of egg mixed with lime also forms a strong cement for this purpose.—.Si?* also Glass, To Unite Neatly. CEMENT FOR LEATHER AND CLOTH.—Gutta-percha, one pound ; indiarubber, a quarter of a pound ; pitch, two ounces ; bulled oil, two ounces ; shellac, one ounce. Melt together and use while hot. CEMENT FOR MARBLE.—Melt together some shellac and sulphur; hold the fractured parts to the fire till quite hot, then apply the mixture. CEMENT (JAPANESE) ; or, Transparent Glue.—Mix to a thick paste, with cold water, some powdered rice flour ; then pour upon it sufficient boiling water to reduce it to the required consistence, stirring it incessantly the while ; pour it into a saucepan, and boil for one minute. This forms a strong and almost colourless cement. CEMENT (MASTIC), for Repairing Stonework.—Sifted sharp sand, twenty parts ; litharge, two parts ; freshly burned and slaked lime, one part. Mix sufficient linseed oil to form a putty. This cement, which is also used for inner walls, becomes quite hard in a few hours. CEMENT (PROFESSOR DAVY’S), for Drain Pipes, Gutters, &c.—Melt together two parts of common pitch, and one part of gutta- percha. Heat the pipes with a hot iron, and pour the cement upon the leaky places. This cement may be dried and preserved for use, and is equally applicable to glass, ivory, leather, porcelain, and wood. CEMENT (SOFT), for Covering Corks.—Melt together equal quantities of yellow wax and rosin, and stir gradually into them some dry Venetian red in powder. A very soft wax may be made by substituting common turpentine in the place of th§ rosin. CEMENT TO STOP LEAKAGES IN IRON PIPES.— Take sixteen parts of wrought-iron filings, three parts of powdered sal ammoniac, and two parts flowers of sulphur ; mix well and keep in a closely stoppered vessel in the dry. When required for use, take one part of the mixture and add to it twelve parts of iron filings ; mix with as much water as will bring it to the consistence of a paste, previously adding to the water a few drops of sulphuric acid. CEMENT TO UNITE CARD TO TIN.—Boil one ounce of borax and two ounces of powdered shellac in fifteen ounces of water tili the lac is entirely dissolved. CEMENT TO UNITE GLASS TO IRON.—Mix into a paste with linseed oil equal parts of litharge, fine dry white sand, and plaster of Paris, with one-third part of powdered rosin. It should be allowed to remain mixed for three or four hours before application, but must be used before the expiration of twelve hours. This cement is used for aqua- riums, and is in consequence generally known by the name of Aquarium Cement. CEMENT TO UNITE INDIARUBBER WITH IRON. —Dissolve thirty grains of indiarubber in four grains of chloroform then 634 add powdered gum mastic ; macerate for seven days, when it will be ready for use. CEMENT (TO URN AY); or, Cedree de Tournay.—Take coal- ashes, blue argillo-ferruginous lime, and sand, and beat them up with water ; let them dry, levigate repeatedly, moisten and beat up. See also Dutch Terras and Indian Chunam. CEMENT (TUNISIAN), for Outer Walls.—Lime, three parts; wood-ashes, two parts ; coarse sand, one part. Mix alternately with oil and water until a paste of the desired consistence is formed. CERATE (WHITE).—Melt-together a gill of olive oil and a quarter of a pound of white wax ; stir till cold. Used as a soft dressing for cuts, blisters, &c. CHALK DRAWINGS, To Fix.—Make a weak solution of isinglass, dip the drawing in, taking care that every part is covered with the solution, then pin it up to dry. CHAMPAGNE CUP.—Take one quart bottle of champagne, two bottles of soda or Seltzer water, and add powdered sugar to taste, one wineglass of Curafoa, plenty of clear ice, and a sprig of green borage, or if borage is not obtainable a little cucumber rind will be found to be an excellent substitute, or a few slices of fruit such as pineapple, melon, nec- tarines, or peaches may be used instead. Mix the ingredients well together. CHAMPAGNE (ENGLISH).—To nine gallons of cider add a pint and a half of proof spirit and two pounds and a half of sugar. Stir together, and let it rest for a fortnight, then fine it with half a pint of new milk, and two weeks afterwards put it into bottles, leaving them uncorked for twenty-four hours. Store in a cool cellar. CHAPS, To Prevent.—Melt together three drams of spermaceti, four drams of white wax, one ounce of almond oil, and then stir into the mixture three drams of powdered camphor (previously moistened with spirits of wine). Make into cakes or balls as it cools, and rub on the hands after each ablution. CHEESECAKES, Cheap.—Rub six ounces of boiled potatoes through a sieve ; add a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of white sugar, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, a quarter of a pound of currants, and twenty drops of essence of lemon. Line the tins with light paste, fill them, and bake for twenty minutes. CHEESECAKES (CURD).—Beat together half a pint of curds, four eggs, half a pint of cream, half a nutmeg, and a spoonful of ratafia flavouring ; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of currants. Line some patty-pans with a light paste, put the above mixture in the centre, and bake. CHEESECAKES (LEMON).—Rub a pound of loaf sugar upon the rind of two large fresh lemons until all the yellow part is taken off. Crush it to powder, and mix with it the strained juice of the lemons, the yolks of six and the whites of four well-beaten eggs, three sponge biscuits, finely grated, and four ounces of fresh butter. Put all together in a saucepan over the fire, and stir in one direction till the mixture is as thick as honey. It may be used at once for the pastry, or, if preferred, may be put into a jar and covered closely for future occasions. If kept in a cool, dry place the mixture will remain good for a couple of years. Time, half an hour to prepare. CHEESECAKES (ORANGE).—Boil the peel of two large oranges in two or three waters, and beat it up with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, a little curd, the yolks of six fine eggs, and half a pound of butter. When the whole are well mixed, cover the patty-pans with puff paste, half fill them with the mixture and bake.35 CHEESECAKES, To Make Superior.—Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk and stand it near the fire ; strain the whey from the curds, breaking the latter gently with the fingers ; rub into the curds a quarter of a pound of butter, the same weight of sugar, the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, one ounce of almonds well beaten, a grated nutmeg, half a glass of raisin wine, and six ounces of currants. Line the moulds with a light puff paste, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. CHEESE (COULOMMIERS).—Madame Decanville, a French lady who received a gold medal for the excellence of her Coulommiers cheese, thus describes her method of making it:—In shape the cheeses are round, an inch thick, and four, six, or twelve inches across. They are made of half milk and half cream. The milk is set for twelve hours, and then skimmed. Twelve hours later the skimmed milk is curdled with rennet, and, twenty-four hours after that, the curd and cream, in equal parts, are put together in the moulds spoonful by spoonful, but not in any other way mixed. The tin mould, without top or bottom, rests on a mat of single straws threaded, covering a space sixteen by twelve inches, and the mat on a thin board, which is placed on an inclined shelf to drain off the whey that escapes. When the cheese has been two days in the mould, it is turned out upon a fresh straw mat resting on an osier mat, slightly sprinkled with salt, and turned daily till cured, which in summer is in a fortnight and in winter in three or four weeks. CHEESE (CRAB).—Cut some good double Gloucester cheese into thin flakes, and press with a knife till it is like butter ; add cayenne pepper, salt, mustard, essence of anchovies, Chili and plain vinegar, and mix together to a thick pulp. Serve on toasted bread. CHEESE, To Destroy Mites in.—Brush off as many mites as possible then put it into a tub and cover it with boiling water ; let it remain for about two minutes, then take it out. This will kill all the mites, and improve the cheese by closing up the cracks. CHEESE, To Make.—Make the milk warm, but not hot, and add sufficient rennet to turn it ; cover it over, and when well turned strike the curd down with the skimming-dish and let it separate, still keeping it covered. Put the vat over the tub and fill it with curd, which must be squeezed close with the hand, adding more as it sinks, leaving it finally about three inches above the edge of the vat. Before the vat is in this manner filled, lay the cheese-cloth at the bottom of it, and, when full, draw it smoothly over on all sides. The curd should be salted in the tub after the whey is out. When everything is thus prepared, put a board under and over the vat, then place it in the press ; let it remain two hours, then turn it out, put in a fresh cheese-cloth, and again press it for ten hours ; then salt it all over, turn it into the vat, and press it for twenty hours. The vat should have several small holes in the bottom to let off the whey. CHERRIES (BOTTLED).—To each pound of fruit add six ounces of powdered sugar. Fill the jars with the fruit, shake the sugar over, and tie each jar down with two bladders. Place the jars in a boiler of cold water, bring it to boiling point, and let them remain in the hot water for three hours ; then take them out, and when cool put them in a dry place. They will keep good for a year or more. CHERRIES (PRESERVED).—Select a quantity of large cherries, not very ripe, take off the stalks and remove the stones, saving the juice which runs from them ; take an equal weight of white sugar and make a syrup of a teacupful of water to each pound, set it over the fire to dissolve, and when boiling hot add the juice and cherries ; boil gently until clear, then with a skimmer remove the fruit and spread it upon flat36 dishes to cool; let the syrup continue to boil until rich and quite thick, then let it stand to get cool. Put the fruit into jars and carefully pour the syrup over it ; let it remain open until the following day, then cover closely over. Sweet cherries are improved by the addition of a pint of red currant juice and half a pound of sugar to every four pounds of cherries. CHERRY BRANDY.—Bruise three pounds of black cherries, cracking the stones ; put the mass into a clean jar with a few young cherry leaves ; add three pints of brandy ; let it stand for three months, then strain off, and add two pounds of crushed lump sugar. It will be fit to drink a week afterwards. CHERRY PUDDING.—Butter the sides and bottom of a basin and line it with a paste made with butter or finely chopped suet rubbed into flour and mixed with water, put in the cherries, cover the top with crust, tie in a cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. CHERRY TART.—Put a good crust round the sides of a pie- dish, sprinkle it with sugar, and fill with cherries and a few red currants, put on the top crust, bake, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. CHESTNUTS, To Dish up.—Take fifty good chestnuts, cut the husks in several places to prevent them from bursting, roast them well, and when done remove the skins. Pour half a pint of boiling water on to half a pound of loaf sugar and the juice of a lemon ; put the whole into a saucepan and boil slowly for ten minutes. Serve with caster sugar. CHICKEN BROTH.—Joint a chicken, and boil it in three pints of water, with three blades of mace, a crust of bread, an ounce and a half of rice, pepper and salt to taste. Skim frequently, and simmer for three hours, or till it is reduced to half the quantity. A little vermicelli boiled in the soup five minutes before it is served is an improvement. CHICKEN (POTTED).—Chop, and pound very fine, two pounds of the flesh of a chicken with one pound of lean ham, add three- quarters of a pound of butter, a little cayenne, nutmeg, and ground mace. Pot, and cover with hot butter. CHICKENS (BOILED).—Tie the wings and the legs to the body with thread, immerse in milk and water for two hours, then put into cold water, and boil slowly for half an hour. Skim constantly. Garnish with white broccoli, and serve with white sauce. Very plump birds should be chosen for this dish, otherwise it will not give satisfaction. CHICKENS (CURRIED).—Put slices of a dressed chicken into a stew-pan with a clove of garlic, a sliced onion fried brown, and some veal or mutton gravy. Simmer till tender, then add a good spoonful each of curry powder and flour, rubbed smooth with an ounce of butter, three or four tablespoonfuls of cream, a little salt, and some lemon juice. Serve with boiled rice round the dish. CHICKENS (FRICASSEE OF).—Draw a coupleof fat chickens, singe them till the flesh gets firm, and carve them into pieces. Take out the lungs and the spongy parts within the loins, and wash in lukewarm water till all the blood is extracted ; then blanch them in boiling water ; drain, and place in cold water so that they may be more readily trimmed. Put them into a stew-pan with a small bit of butter, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, an anchovy, some parsley, a small shalot, a few bits of mace, and a bay leaf. Let them boil for about three-quarters of an hour, then dish up. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, the yolks of four eggs, and a cupful of cream. Stir it over the fire, but do not boil it. Pour the gravy over the chicken. Some cooks add a little lemon juice, while others disapprove of the practice. When this is done the fricassee must be highly seasoned with pepper and salt37 CHICKENS (RISSOLES OF).—Cut the white fleshy part from a dressed chicken, mince it, and simmer for a short time in either chicken or veal broth, reduced. Season well, and when cold divide into small balls, roll them up in paste, and fry to a delicate colour. Garnish with fried parsley. CHICKENS (ROAST).—Pluck, draw, singe, and truss the birds, dredge them with flour, cover the breasts with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them before a good fire for about twenty minutes, keeping them constantly turning, and basting with butter. Remove the paper from the breasts eight minutes before they are done, so that they may get brown. Serve with butter and parsley. , CHICKENS (SOUFLE OF).—This dish is made from the remnants of roasted chickens. Cut off the white flesh and mince it very small ; pound it in a mortar with a little broth, a good-sized piece of butter, and salt and pepper; then beat up the yolks of four eggs, and mix with the minced meat. Strain the whole through a tammy, or a hair sieve ; beat up the whites of five eggs, put this with the other preparation, pour into a dish and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen or twenty minutes. CHICKENS, To Fatten Quickly.—Scald some milk, pour it upon rice, and mix with treacle. Give the birds as much of the warm mixture as they will eat every morning. CHILBLAINS (BROKEN).—Hog’s lard, one ounce; beeswax, one ounce ; oil of turpentine, half an ounce. Melt and mix thoroughly, spread on leather, and apply as soon as possible after the wound appears. Persons subject to chilblains should sleep in knitted woollen socks, as warmth causes circulation, a lack of which brings on the complaint. CHILBLAINS, Liniment for.—Belladonna liniment, two drams; aconite liniment, one dram ; carbolic acid, twelve drops ; flexile collodion, sufficient to make one ounce. Apply with a camel-hair pencil every three days. CHILBLAINS, Preventive against.—Rub the toes, or other parts of the feet likely to become affected, every morning and night with a mix- ture of one part camphorated spirit and three parts vinegar. CHILBLAINS (UNBROKEN).—As soon as the itching sensa- tion is felt in the feet or hands apply a coating of concentrated chloride of iron. It is acknowledged to be an unfailing remedy. Or, rub them well every night with turpentine. The skin will peel off, nevertheless this simple remedy will be found as effectual as the most costly compounds. The following is another excellent remedyPut two ounces of sal- ammoniac in a quart of rain water, and boil it till the sal-ammoniac is dis- solved. Rub it on the chilblains three times a day. This must not be applied near the fire. Great relief may also be obtained by rubbing them every night and morning with a mixture composed of one ounce of spirits of wine and ten drops of tincture of arnica. Another excellent remedyReduce to a powder one dram of sugar of lead hnd two drams of white vitriol, add four ounces of water. Shake the lotion before using, and rub it in before a good fire. CHILI, To Grow.—Sow the seed in March in a hot-bed or hot- house in pans. When strong enough, prick out, placing two or three in a pot ; finally shift into six-inch pots for fruiting in the greenhouse. CHIMNEYS, To Extinguish Fire in.—Shut the door and window of the room, throw a few handfuls of salt on to the burning soot in the chimney, then sprinkle a handful of sulphur on the fire, and immediately pm a cloth saturated with water over the front of the fireplace.38 CHINESE WHITE.—Take some finely-ground zinc white, put it on a marble slab, mix it into a cream of the required consistence by the addition of gum-tragacanth, grinding it with a glass muller. For sufficient to fill an ordinary sized Chinese white bottle, add to above ten drops of thick gum-arabic mucilage and six drops of pure glycerine ; grind well together and fill the bottle by aid of the palette knife. CHIVES, To Cultivate.—These small herbs of the onion tribe, so useful for salads and culinary purposes, are raised by parting the roots, in the spring or autumn, detaching several small roots together in each slip, and planting them six to eight inches apart. CHOCOLATE, To Prepare.—Dissolve an ounce of Florence chocolate in a small quantity of hot water, and pour it into a chocolate-pot, or saucepan, with a large cupful of milk ; stir it gently, and when it boils, remove it a little and let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then mill it again to make it frothy, and serve. CHOCOLATE, To Test.—When genuine it is of a clear reddish- brown colour, with a smooth, shiny surface, compact and close-grained where broken, and cool to the tongue. If the gloss comes off when touched by the finger, it breaks crumbly, and is rough in the mouth, it is adulterated. CHOLERA, To Treat.—Aromatic confection, two drams ; prepared chalk, two drams ; sal volatile, two drams ; tincture of opium, one dram ; tincture of ginger, four drams ; tincture of kino, four drams ; cinnamon water, six ounces. A tablespoonful to be taken every two hours until relaxation ceases. Another remedy:—Bicarbonate of soda, eight grains ; tincture of opium, eight grains ; tincture of ginger, two drops ; tincture of catechu, one dram ; aromatic confection, ten grains ; chalk mixture, two ounces. If there is much pain, add from three to five drops of creosote to the chalk mixture. A wineglassful to be taken when necessary. Dr. Chapman recommends the application of ice to the spine by means of elongated bags. CHRISTMAS PUDDING, A Good.—Mix in a large pan one pound of flour, one pound of bread crumbs, two pounds of suet, one pound of fine sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, two teaspoonfuls of ground mixed spice, two ounces of ground bitter almonds, the red part of a large carrot scraped, two pounds of stoned raisins, two pounds of currants, one pound of mixed candied peel, and the rinds of one lemon and one orange cut small. Beat up in a basin ten eggs, mix them with half a pint or a pint of milk, according to the size of the eggs ; add to the dry ingredients, and thoroughly well mix ; add the juice of a lemon and of an orange strained, and a teaspoonful of essence of ratafia. Mix again. Great importance is attached to the mixing. Put into two buttered basins, and cover with flour and water rolled out. Tie down with a stout cloth, and boil for fifteen hours each. CHRYSANTHEMUMS AND POM PONES.—These, the last showy flowers of the year, require a light rich soil and plenty of mois- ture. They are easily propagated either by root-division in early spring, by cuttings in April and May, or by layers in July and August; the plants grown by layers will bear transplanting and will flower the same season. They may be kept in a dwarfed state by constantly shifting them into pots a size larger. CHUB (BROILED).—First scald the fish, then cut off the fins and tail, wash it thoroughly and slit it down the middle ; cut across the back in two or three places, and broil it over a wood fire, basting it constantly v/ith salt butter and finely shred thyme.39 CHUTNEY.—Gently dry and bruise one pound of mustard seed and add thereto one pound of salt; make a syrup by adding one pound of brown sugar with a pint of vinegar ; dry two quarts of unripe gooseberries and boil them in a quart of vinegar ; and bruise in a mortar twelve ounces of garlic. Now take one pound of stoned raisins and six ounces of cayenne pepper. When the gooseberries are cold, gradually pound the whole of the ingredients together, and thoroughly amalgamate them with a pint of vinegar. Put into jars and tie down close. It will improve by keeping. CHUTNEY, Good Lucknow.—Table salt, one pound; mustard seed, one pound ; stoned raisins, one pound ; brown sugar, one pound ; garlic, twelve ounces ; cayenne pepper, six ounces ; green gooseberries, two quarts ; strong vinegar, two quarts. Dry and bruise the mustard seed gently, mix the sugar with a pint of the vinegar until a syrup is obtained, dry and boil the gooseberries in a quart of the vinegar, and bruise the garlic well in a mortar ; when cold, gradually mix the whole in a large mortar, and thoroughly amalgamate it with the remaining pint of vinegar. Tie down close. The longer it is kept the better it becomes. CHUTNEY, Superior Bengal.—Boil nine or ten green codlins in a pint and a half of vinegar, and when soft pass through a sieve so as to remove the pips, core, and skin ; then add half an ounce of cochineal, one dram of powdered cinnamon, one dram of black pepper, half a dram of powdered cloves, half a dram of powdered nutmeg, two drams of powdered coriander seed, two drams of crushed mustard seed, an ounce and a half of powdered ginger, a small head of garlic chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of Demerara sugar, a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins chopped fine, two drams of cayenne, fifty red capsicums, and a quarter of a pound of salt. Boil over a clear fire for twenty minutes, stirring the whole time ; put into bottles, and when cold tie down with bladders. Will keep for ten or a dozen years. CIDER CUP.—Put a well-browned toast into a cup with a little grated ginger and nutmeg, add two glasses of sherry and a fresh borage leaf, then fill up with cider. CIDER, To Bottle.—Before bottling cider draw off a small quantity in a glass, and, if it is not perfectly clear, clarify it, and let it stand for ten or fourteen days ; then withdraw the bung and let it remain so for twelve hours ; fill the bottles, and leave them uncorked for a day. If wanted for immediate consumption put a small piece of loaf sugar in each bottle. Keep it in a cool cellar. CIDER, To Make.—Gather a quantity of fully ripe apples and lay them in a loft for a fortnight to grow mellow. Crush them to a pulp, put this into a strong, coarse bag, and with a heavy weight press out the juice into a large, open tub, and keep it at the heat of sixty degrees. As soon as the sediment has subsided rack the liquor off into a clean cask and stand it in a cool place till the following spring, when it may be re-racked for use. CIDER, To Preserve.—Cider may be kept sweet by adding to each barrel of the same one quart of fiue charcoal, or a couple of quarts of pure alcohol, or one gallon of brandy. CINERARIAS, To Grow.—These brilliantly-tinted flowers, although too tender for out-door growth, deserve cultivation as pot plants, as they may be had in flower from December to May. They can be multiplied by seed, cuttings, or root divisions, and will grow in any garden soil. The plants require to be kept just moist. CINNAMON WATER.—Steep one pound of cinnamon bark for four or five days in a gallon of brandy and the same quantity of water, then distil off one gallon.40 CIRCASSIAN CREAM, for the Skin.—Almond emulsion, hall a pint; essence of almonds, one dram ; bi-chloride of mercury, four grains ; spirits of wine, half a pint ; eau de Cologne, one teaspoonful. This forms an excellent cosmetic. CISTERNS, Cement for.—See Cement for Cisterns. CISTERNS (CYLINDRICAL), Rule for the Measurement of. —Take the length, width, and depth in feet ; multiply these together, and the product by 1,865 1 cut off four figures on the right, and the result will be the contents in barrels. Example : Fmd the contents of a cistern six feet in diameter and nine feet deep. Six feet, the length, multiplied by six feet, the breadth, and the product by nine, gives the depth, 324, which, multiplied by 1,865 and four figures cut off, gives sixty barrels and a decimal. In this the diameter is considered as being both length and breadth. The reason of the rule is this: a cylinder one foot in diameter and one foot long, would measure 1,865 ten-thousandths of a barrel. A cylinder nine times as long would contain nine times as much, and six times as wide, six times as much as that. CISTUSES, To Propagate.—There are various species of this plant, some forming handsome shrubs, and bearing large white, yellow, red, or purple flowers, others being of a trailing nature, and suitable for rockwork rather than the shrubbery. They may all be raised from suckers, cuttings, or seeds sown in a hot-bed during spring, and afterwards trans- planted to a warm, well-drained, chalky soil. CITRON PUDDINGS.—Flour, one tablespoonful; sugar, two ounces ; citron-peel, two ounces ; cream, half a pint ; and a little mixed spice. Mix them together with the yolks of three eggs ; put into teacups and bake in a quick oven. CLARET (BRITISH), To Make.—To one quart of cider add the same quantity of port wine and a wineglassful of brandy ; fine down, and bottle off at the end of five weeks. CLARET CUP.—Mix together one quart bottle of claret and two bottles of soda or Seltzer water, three or four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a few lumps of clear ice, a wineglass of Maraschino or Curafoa, and a sprig of green borage. Pass a clean napkin through the handles of the cup before handing round to the guests. CLIANTHUS PUNICEUS. —This handsome, half-creeping shrub, which bears scarlet blossoms, is generally regarded as a green-house plant, and is grown in a mixture of loam and the well-rotted compost of a hot-bed. It may, however, be made to stand our winter in the open by planting it against a wall and protecting the root with a thick covering of litter and matting. It is increased by suckers and cuttings. CLOTH (BLACK), To Remove Stains from.—Boil a couple of handfuls of fig or ivy leaves in half a pint of water, till the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. It may then be allowed to cool and bottled for use. When required apply with a sponge. CLOTH (BLACK), To Renovate.—Mix a tablespoonful of oxgall with a quartern of warm rain-water; sponge the cloth first with the mixture and afterwards with clear rain-water. A weak solution of ammonia is also often recommended, but this has a tendency to turn the cloth brown in a short time. See also Black Reviver. CLOTHES, To Remove Shine from.—Corkscrew and other cloths which quickly acquire a glazed appearance may be restored by being well rubbed with a little turpentine. The smell will soon go off if they are hung in the air. A solution of ammonia or some strong coffee will sometimes have the desired effect.41 CLOTH, To Draw Patterns on.- This is best accomplished by mixing blue-stone and a little sugar with water, and drawing the pattern with a quill pen. CLOTH, To Raise the Nap on.—Soak the damaged part in cold water for half an hour, then lay it on a board and rub it until the nap is raised with a half-worn hatter's card filled with flocks. Hang the cloth up, and when nearly dry lightly brush the nap the right way. CLOTH, To Take Grease out of.—Dip a piece of felt in turpentine and rub the cloth gently until the grease is removed ; brush well, and hang in the air to take away the smell. COBCEA SCANDENS.—This climber, which bears large, dull, purple flowers, is useful as a covering to walls or trellis-work, on account of its rampant growth. It may be made to survive our winter if the roots are well protected, but it is safer to raise fresh plants every year from layers or cuttings, which should be kept in pots till the spring, when they may be planted in a warm aspect, in good hazel loam. COCHINEAL, To Improve the Colour of.—A little nitrate of tin added to a solution of cochineal will change its colour from a dull crimson to a bright scarlet. COCK-A-LEEKIE.—Put a knuckle of veal, or some scrag of mutton, into a stew-pan with a fowl and six leeks sliced about two inches long ; add three quarts of good beef stock and a little pepper and salt, and stew gently for an hour and a half. Serve the fowl on a separate dish. COCK-CROWING, To Prevent.—If a small lath be loosely suspended about a foot and a half above the perch of the bird, so that it wall come gently in contact with his comb when he stretches his neck to crow, it will effectually stop the noise. COCOA NIBS.—To a quarter of a pound of cocoa nibs add half a gallon of cold water ; boil it steadily for five hours, allow it to cool, remove the whole of the fat, boil it up again, and let it simmer till reduced to a quart. COCO AN UT BISCUITS.—Grated cocoanut, six ounces ; caster sugar, nine ounces ; eggs, three. Whisk the eggs, then add the cocoanut and sugar, so as to form a paste ; shape into small cones, place them on tins covered with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven to a light colour. COCOANUT CAKES.—Whisk three eggs until they are very light, add gradually ten ounces of sifted sugar, and stir in six ounces of grated cocoanut. Roll a tablespoonful of the paste into the form of a pyramid, and so continue until it is all used up. Place the pyramids upon paper, put the paper on tins and bake in a rather cool oven till they are just coloured a light brown. COCOANUT CANDY, SUPERIOR.—Rasp half a pound of cocoanut, spread it on a dish, and let it stand for two or three days to get dry. Then beat the fourth part of the white of an egg in three-quarters of a pint of water and pour it on to two pounds of loaf sugar. When it has stood a little time, place it over a very clear fire and let it boil for a few minutes, then set it on one side till the scum has subsided ; clear it off, and boil the sugar till it is very thick and white ; strew in the nut, and stir continually until it is finished. Take care not to have the pan too close to the fire, as the nut is liable to burn. COD (BAKED).—Cut the fish into slices about half an inch thick, dip into flour, then into beaten egg mixed with milk—a tablespoonful to each egg—and lastly into bread-crumbs with a seasoning of mixed herbs, ot the kind used for veal stuffing. Baste with butter melted in the 742 baking-tin and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve with caper sauce. COD (BOILED).—Cod intended for boiling should first be well salted, and allowed to hang for a couple of days so that it may become firm. It requires to boil from a quarter to half an hour, according to size. Garnish with the roe, milt, and liver, lemon, and horseradish, and serve with oyster or shrimp sauce, accompanied with parsnips. COD (BROILED).—Cut fresh cod into slices an inch thick, dip them in thick melted butter, dredge with pepper and salt, and broil on a gridiron, which has previously been rubbed with chalk, till both sides are a good colour. Serve with parsley sauce. COD (CRIMPED).—Cut the fish into nice slices and lay them in salt and water for three hours, adding a wineglassful of vinegar ; put into boiling water with a handful of salt, and boil quickly for ten or fifteen minutes. Garnish with parsley, curled horseradish, and sliced lemon, and serve with cream, shrimp or oyster sauce. COD (CURRIED).—Cut the fish into handsome slices and fry them with some sliced onions to a good colour ; then stew them in white gravy, to which add a large teaspoonful of curry powder, two or three spoonfuls of cream, a little flour and butter, a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and a pinch of salt. COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS (BOILED).—Clean and dry the fish, tie it together, and boil for half an hour in salt and water, into which a glass of vinegar has been put. Serve with egg or oyster sauce. COD’S HEAD AND SHOULDERS, To Carve.—The back of the fish being placed towards the carver, an incision is first made down the thick part of the back as far as the bone, and then across the fish, at in- tervals of several inches, to a like depth, and slices cut from these openings, right and left, care being taken not to break the flakes. The gelatinous parts about the head and neck are considered a dainty, as is also the sound. The palate and tongue, if asked for, must be got at with a spoon. COD-LIVER OIL, To take.—This nourishing yet unpleasant medicine is best taken in new milk, and its disagreeable flavour can be covered by adding one dram of orange juice to every eight ounces of oil. CODS’ SOUNDS (BOILED).—Soak them in warm water for half an hour, remove the dirty skin, and boil until tender in equal parts of milk and water. Serve with egg sauce. COD (TAIL OF). — Rub it with salt, let it hang for a couple of days, and boil it in water with a little salt until the flesh may be readily removed from the bones, then take it up, cut into nice pieces, and fry in batter. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with shrimp sauce. COFFEE, To Prepare with Cold Water.—Pour a pint and a half of cold water upon two ounces of coffee ; boil it till the coffee falls to the bottom, and when it is clear at the top remove it from the fire, put in a small piece of isinglass to clear it, and when it is settled, pour it off into a coffee-pot. A small quantity of cold water added the instant it is taken from the fire is sometimes used to clear it. COFFEE, To Prepare with Hot Water.—Put into a coffee-pot five or six teaspoonfuls of newly roasted and ground Mocha or Java coffee, and pour thereon a quart of boiling water; let it stand for five or six minutes, and then fine it by pouring some into a cup and back again into the pot; let it settle, and it is ready to serve. Coffee should be an inlusion, not a decoction. COINS, To Take Impressions of.—See Medals. COLCHICUM ; or, Meadow Saffron.—This plant is found in moist pastures on heavy land, and is often employed in the garden as an40 ecMn'r It is quite hardy, and grows in any soil, but flourishes best in moist situations. The beautiful peach-blossom tinted flowers, resembling the crocus in shape, appear in the autumn before the bulb has quitted its dormant state, so far as the roots are concerned, and will even burst into beauty without coming into contact with a particle of earth ; but in this case it is then necessary to plant them when the flowering is over. Its foliage beincr somewhat coarse and cumbrous it is advisable to let them leat in a reserved ground, and afterwards to transplant them to flower where desired. The plant is regarded as poisonous. ... r COLD CREAM.—Oil of almonds, one pound ; white wax, four ounces. Melt, pour into a warm mortar, and add by degrees a pint of rose-water. It should be light and white. COLD IN THE HEAD.—Professor Ferrier says that catarrh may as a rule be checked by using a snuff composed of six drams of bismuth, two drams of acacia powder, and two grains of hydrochlorate of morphia. Half of the above quantity to be taken in twenty-four hours. COLDS, Composition Powder for.—Poplar bark, four ounces; bayberry, eight ounces ; cinnamon, one ounce ; cayenne, two drams. Mix, and pass through a sieve till well incorporated. From half a tea- spoonful to a teaspoonful to be put into half a pint of boiling water, well sweetened, and to be taken hot at bed-time. As a remedy for colds it is pronounced to be unrivalled. COLD, To Disperse a.—Hot, strong lemonade taken at bed-time will often break up a bad cold. This remedy should certainly command a trial. COLIC (FLATULENT), To Relieve.—Dip a flannel in hot water, wring it as dry as possible, sprinkle it with oil of turpentine, and apply to the painful part. COLIC, To Relieve.—This affection, which is generally brought on through wind or obstinate costiveness, may be relieved by placing a bag of hot bran upon the stomach, and drinking a glass of hot lemonade, or a wineglassful of peppermint with a pinch of cayenne pepper in it. From half an ounce to one ounce of castor oil to be taken to relieve the bowels. COLLOPS (MINCED). —Mince some beef, sprinkle with pepper and salt, put into jars, and cover with clarified butter. When wanted for use, put the clarified butter into a frying-pan with sliced onion ; fry, add a little water, then put in the mince meat. In a few minutes it will be ready for serving. COLOURED FABRICS, To Wash.—The most effectual way of preserving the colour of chintz, merinoes, &c., is to avoid rubbing them with soap when they are washed. This may be done if a good lather is made before the articles are inserted in the water, and mixing with the second water a tablespoonful of ox-gall. The fabric should be washed as quickly as possible and passed through two rinse waters, putting into each a teaspoonful of vinegar. Dry quickly, as it injures the colours to allow them to remain damp long. The articles must never be allowed to freeze, nor should they be smoothed with a very hot iron. Articles of a green or pink tint should be mangled or cold-pressed, as hot irons frequently change the colour. Another method is to boil sago or rice to a pulp, dilute it with warm water, and wash the articles therein without soap. COLTSFOOT (SWEET-SCENTED), To Grow.-This plant Is worthy of cultivation as its heliotrope-scented flowers appear in winter even before its leaves. It will grow in any moist loamy soil from slips taken from the root. It requires to be kept well trimmed, otherwise it becomes very troublesome.44 COLTSFOOT SYRUP FOR COUGHS.—Into half a gallon of water put a quarter of a pound of coltsfoot, one ounce of hyssop, one ounce of balm, one ounce of rue, and half an ounce of horehound. Boil down to half the quantity ; strain, add one pound of white sugar ; pour it back into the saucepan, and boil to the consistence of honey. A tea- spoonful to be taken when the cough is troublesome. COLUMBINE.—This old-established plant well deserves the favour it has received for so many years past, from the peculiarity of its flower, which can be divided into portions, each of which resembles a “ columba," or dove. It will grow in any ordinary garden soil if protected with a little litter in winter. As it is likely to degenerate when raised from seed it is far better to propagate it by root-division. COMPLEXION, To Improve the.—Dissolve fullers’ earth in water, stir well, then let it settle, and use once or twice a day. See also Skin (White), To Procure a. CONCRETE WALKS FOR GARDENS.—Mix together six parts of coarse gravel and one part of lime, lay it down to a depth of six inches, and while wet cover it with an inch of fine sand and roll it well in. CONFECTIONERY, Green Colouring for.—Steep half an ounce of saffron in distilled water for twenty-four hours, and in another vessel infuse a quarter of an ounce of carmine indigo for the same period, then mix. This colouring matter is quite harmless, and may be preserved a considerable time by making it into a syrup. CONSTIPATION, To Remove.—Take as much open-air exercise as possible each day, and drink at least half a pint of water before retiring to rest, and the same quantity the first thing in the morning. Attention to these simple rules will cure the most obstinate cases of costiveness. CONSUMPTION, To Cure.—Consumption of the lungs has frequently been cured by simply cutting out a clod of earth every morning and breathing into the hole for about a quarter of an hour. The patient should eat as many apples as possible, and drink freely of milk, alternated with apple water or cider-whey. CONVULSIONS IN CHILDREN.—Set the child, during the fit, up to the neck in warm water; let it remain thus for a quarter of an hour, and apply every two or three minutes a wet cloth to the head and temples. After removing the child from the bath and wiping it dry, wrap it in flannel, give it a teaspoonful of castor oil in a little warm milk, and put it to bed. COOLING DRINKS.—To two ounces of Epsom salts add a large lemon cut into slices, two ounces of cream of tartar, a spoonful of sugar, and a quart of boiling water. Stir well, and allow it to cool. This forms a very pleasant drink and a gentle aperient. Or, dissolve two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in a quart of boiling water ; add lemon and sugar to taste. Let stand for two hours, then strain it for drinking. Another refreshing drink for use in the summer is made as follows:—Boil two pounds of loaf sugar in a quart of water for a quarter of an hour, and let it stand in a basin till cold. Meantime, beat one ounce of citric acid to a powder, and with it mix half a dram of essence of lemon. Add this to the syrup, mix well and bottle for use. Two tablespoonfuls in a tumbler of cold water. COPPER IN LIQUIDS, To Detect.—Put a small quantity of the liquid in a wineglass and add a few drops of spirits of hartshorn ; if cooper be present the liquid will turn blue. COPPER IN PICKLES, &c., To detect the presence of.—Put a small quantity of the pickles into a glass, and add a little liquid ammonia45 with the same amount of water. Stir the whole well together. If copper be present the liquid will become blue. COPPER, To Clean and Polish.—Add a little solution of bichro- mate of potash to diluted nitric acid ; apply with a flannel and polish with a leather. ... . „ , , , Oil and powdered brickdust, or oil and rotten-stone (sifted through muslin), mixed, and rubbed on with a leather, and after remaining on for a little while, rubbed off with a dry leather, will also prove valuable. When the copper is much tarnished a little oxalic acid soon brings brightness, but this must be used with great caution. COPPER, To Dissolve.—This mineral may be dissolved by im- mersing it in a bath of strong acetic acid. COPPER, To Whiten.—See Brass and Copper, To Whiten. CORN PLASTER.—Take two ounces of gum-ammoniac, two ounces of beeswax, and six drams of verdigris ; melt them together, and spread the composition on soft leather, such as an old kid glove. Cut away as much of the corn as possible, apply the plaster, and renew it every week or so until the corn disappears. CORNS, Simple remedy for. —Soak the feet for half an hour, two or three nights successively, in a strong solution of soda. This will dissolve the hard cuticle which forms the corn. The following is recommended by an American gentleman :—Take one- fourth cup of strong vinegar, crumb finely into it some bread. Let it stand half an hour, or until it softens into a good poultice. Apply on retiring at night. In the morning the soreness will be gone and the corn can be picked out. If the corn is a very obstinate one it may require two or more applications to effect a cure. CORN SOLVENT (DAVY’S).—Reduce to a very fine powder two parts potash and one part salt of sorrel. Lay a small quantity of the powder on the corn for four successive nights, binding it on with a linen rag. CORNS (SOFT).—Keep the feet scrupulously clean and dry, and protect the tender place from friction or pressure by means of a pad of wash-leather secured in position with strips of adhesive plaster. CORPULENCY, To Reduce.—Abstain from the use of fat meat, butter, sugar, milk, potatoes, port, champagne, and beer, but take plenty of out-door exercise every day. COSMETIC FOR THE HANDS.—Melt over a slow fire half a pound of soft soap with three ounces of sweet oil and a small teacupful of sea-sand. Stir well together, and run the mixture into moulds or press it into cakes. Sifted shelly sand is the best to use for this purpose. COSMETIC TO NULLIFY THE EFFECTS OF HARSH WINDS.—Take one ounce of spermaceti, half an ounce of white wax, one ounce of camphor, and two ounces of olive oil. Melt the whole together, stirring frequently. Pour into small pots for use. COUGH (CONSUMPTIVE), To Allay.—Mix two ounces of syrup of balsam of tolu, two grains of muriate of morphia, and twenty drops of muriatic acid. Take a teaspoonful twice a day. A small piece of resin, dipped in hot water, which is placed in a vessel on the stove, will add a peculiar property to the atmosphere of the room which will give great relief to the cough. COUGH MIXTURE.—Mix five ounces of honey, a quarter of a pound of treacle, and seven ounces of best vinegar. Simmer for fifteen minutes, and when milk-warm add two drams of ipecacuanha wine. One tablespoonful to be taken every four hours. This simple remedy will be found effectual in the most troublesome cases, and is well adapted lor children.46 COURT BOUILLON, for Fresh-water Fish.—Tie together a large bunch of parsley, green onions, basil, thyme, bay leaves, and garlic, and put them into a fish-kettle with a quart of white wine and a good quantity of water, add some sliced onions and carrots, and let the whole stew gently for three or four hours ; then put in the fish to cook. The liquor will serve for several times. COURT PLASTER.—Melt a quarter of a pound of isinglass in a gill of water ; add an ounce of tincture of benzoin ; stir together over the fire, and brush evenly over silk or fine cotton. Apply warm. COW-HEEL.—Procure an undressed cowr-heel, boil it till tender, then cut it into handsome pieces, dip them first in egg and afterwards in bread crumbs, and fry a light brown. Lay the meat round a dish, and put in the middle sliced onions fried with butter, or in good gravy. The liquor they were boiled in will make soup. Rashers of bacon or fried sausages are very good accompaniments. COWSLIPS (AMERICAN); or, Mead’s Dodecatheon.—Al- though hardy, this plant is not easy to preserve. It delights in a half-shady spot, and should be set in a compost of one-third light loam and two- thirds heath mould. As the stem dies away in the winter it is advisable to mark its position, so that it may not be disturbed when digging up the ground in the spring. COWS (MILKING).—Three ounces of cod-liver oil given to milking-cows night and morning with their usual food produces sweet and delicate milk and butter in the spring months, at a cost of less than two- pence a day, which, estimating it by weight, is only half the cost of linseed cake. CRAB (DRESSED).—Remove the claws and pick the crab, keeping the white part from the soft, yellow meat, and, having washed the large back shell, put the pickings into it, the white portion on one side and the yellow on the other, dividing the two with thin slices of cucumber ; lay the claws round in any ornamental manner, and dish up on a napkin. Serve with oil and vinegar. As a change the flesh may be mixed with butter, vinegar, oil, cayenne and white pepper, and salt. Serve in the large shell. CRABS, To Choose.—Those of the middle-size are generally the sweetest. The heavy crabs are always the best, the light ones being watery. The tail and the joints of the legs should be stiff, and the body have an agreeable smell. CRAMP IN THE LEGS.—Stretch out the heel of the foot as far as possible, at the same time drawing up the toes. This will often stop a fit of cramp after it has commenced, and will prevent it attacking those who are subject thereto. CRAMP (WRITERS’).—See Writers’ Cramp. CRAPE (BLACK), To Renovate.—Dissolve a little glue in a mixture of skimmed milk and water ; make it scalding hot, apply with a brush; clap it between a cloth, and pull it dry, like fine muslin. This will make rusty crape look like new. CRAYFISH, To Choose.—When fresh a certain amount of muscular motion in the claws may be excited by pressing the eyes of the fish, and when boiled the tail preserves its elasticity, which is lost as soon as it gets stale. Crayfish is good only when it does not spawn, for at that time it is nauseously bitter. CRAYFISH, To Cook.—Wash the fish in several waters. Put into a stew-pan a few slices of onion and carrot, a little parsley, thyme, two cloves, a bay leaf, salt, pepper, a glassful of vinegar, and some water. Let the whole stew for one hour ; strain, put the fish into the liquor, and boil47 it for twenty minutes. Keep the fish in the liquor till required for table, as this improves the flavour. It is usual before putting them in to boil, to turn'each claw round to stick in the fan of the tail, so that it presents the appearance of a frog. Dish up on parsley. ... . CRAYON DRAWINGS, To Fix. —As crayons will not bear washing with the brush, the only method to fix the drawing is the previous preparation of the paper by washing it with a strong solution of isinglass. When the paper is quite dry proceed with the picture, and when it is finished hold it face downwards over a basin of boiling water. As the steam melts the size the crayon or charcoal becomes absorbed, and when it has again become dry the drawing is fixed. By repeating the process several times during the progress of the picture the effect is increased each ^CRAYONS, To Make.—To six parts of finely-powdered chalk, add three parts of shellac, two parts of spirits of wine, one part of tur- pentine, and six parts of any colouring matter. Mix, form into sticks, and dry. CREAM (ALMOND).—Beat together, to prevent oiling, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and a few bitter ones, put them into a quart of boiling cream, sweeten with sugar, add the juice of two lemons, and a dozen eggs. Beat to a froth, and put the cream into a dish, with the froth on the top. . CREAM (APRICOT).—Take a few ripe apricots, remove the peel and stones, and pound the fruit in a mortar with a little sugar, then rub it through a tammy, pressing upon the fruit with a wooden spoon ; add a little melted isinglass, and some well-beaten thick cream. If not sweet enough already, add more sugar, and beat it over ice till the isinglass is well blended with the mixture. Put the whole into a mould and heap up all round it a quantity of ice and salt. Do not turn the cream out of the mould until it is required for table. CREAM AU THE.—Boil together half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk, sweeten with sugar, and put in a pinch of salt. Directly the cream boils throw in two spoonfuls of good tea, let it boil slowly for a few minutes, add the yolks of eight eggs, stir till the cream becomes thick, then put in some isinglass, previously melted, and pour the whole into a mould. CREAM (BOSTON).—See Boston Cream. CREAM (CHEESE), Plain.—Warm a pint and a half of milk and half a pint of cream, then add a little rennet, cover over, and stand it in a warm place till it is curdled ; pour it into a colander, and let it drain for an hour. Serve with plain cream and sugar over it. CREAM CHEESE, To Make.—Suspend the cream in a wet cloth for six or seven days in a cool place ; then put it into a mould lined with a cloth ; put on the press with a light weight; turn it twice a day, and it will be fit for use in a short time. CREAM (CHOCOLATE).—Rasp finely some chocolate, throw it into a basin, and pour boiling water upon it. When dissolved, mix it with boiled cream, and proceed in the manner directed for Coffee Cream. CREAM (COFFEE).—Boil together a pint of milk and a pint of cream, sweeten with sugar, and add a little salt. Roast the coffee, throw it into the cream, cover the stew-pan, and let it infuse till it gets cold. Then beat up fifteen eggs, add them to the cream, make hot, and run the whole through a sieve into a mould. CREAM (EGG AND WATER).—Boil in a pint of water two ounces of sugar, a little cinnamon and coriander, and the peel of a lemon. Let them infuse well, then beat into them the yolks of eight eggs ; rubthrough a tammy, put into small cups, and place the cups in a stew-pan containing water enough to reach half way up the cups. Cover, and put a little fire on the lid of the pan, to prevent any steam dropping into the cream. The cream must not boil too long, nor fast, otherwise it will curdle. This cream is specially recommended for delicate young ladies, and those possessing weak stomachs. CREAM (GOOSEBERRY).—Put into a saucepan a quart of picked gooseberries with enough water to cover them. When warm stir in a small piece of butter, and let them boil quickly until soft. Pulp them through a sieve, add sugar to the pulp, and beat in the yolks of three eggs. Serve in a mould or in glasses. CREAM (ICE).—To a quart of boiling cream add eight eggs, well beaten; thicken over the fire, but mind it does not curdle. As soon as it is removed from the fire, mix it with a little melted isinglass, rub the whole through a sieve, and try a little in a small mould over ice. If the cream has not substance enough to allow of its being turned upside down, add a little more isinglass. Freeze over ice. CREAM (ITALIAN).—Boil a pint of cream with a pint of milk, throw in the grated peel of an orange and a lemon, a pinch of salt, and half a pound of sugar. When the peel has imparted a flavour to the cream, beat into it the yolks of eight eggs, thicken with a little flour; strain through a fine sieve into a mould, and place the mould in a hot bath on the hob till the cream is set. CREAM (LEMON).—Throw the peel of a lemon into equal quantities of boiling milk and cream, sweeten with sugar, and add a pinch of salt. When the peel is sufficiently infused, proceed as in making Vanilla Cream. If the cream is tc be white, use the whites of the eggs only ; if yellow, use the yolks. CREAM (LEMON-PEEL).—Boil a pint of cream, let it stand till half cold, then add the yolks of three or four eggs, and stir till quite cold ; afterwards put it on the fire with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar and a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel ; stir constantly till it is hot, and when cool pour into glasses. CREAM (MARBLED).—Make each cream separately, but be sure they are all of the same substance, for should one be thicker than the other they would separate in the dish. Rub the mould lightly over with oil, give it a sloping direction, and pour in, say, a little Vanilla cream ; let it freeze, then turn the mould and pour in a little chocolate cream ; let that freeze, and so on till the mould is full of light and dark creams, alternately put together. CREAM (ORANGE FLOWER).—This is made in the same manner as Cream au Th6, with the exception that instead of tea, a large pinch of orange flowers is infused in the cream until the flavour is obtained, when the eggs and isinglass are added. CREAM (PEACH). —Infuse the fruit in a small quantity of syrup till it is tender, drain, and pound the kernels very fine in a mortar : rub the fruit and kernels through a sieve, and mix with whipped cream. CREAM (PINE-APPLE).—Infuse the rind of a pine-apple in boiling cream, and proceed as is usual with other fruit creams. The rind only must be used, as the pulp of the pine-apple being acid, the cream would curdle. CREAM PUFFS.—Two eggs well beaten, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, two tablespoonfuls of baking powder, and a pound and a quarter of flour. Bake ; divide the cakes in halves while hot, and fill with cream made as followsTwo eggs, a pint of milk, a quarter or a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of flour. Cook till thick.49 CREAM (RASPBERRY).—This in made in precisely the same way as is hereinafter directed for preparing strawberry cream, the only difference being in the kind of fruit used. CREAM (SALAD).—See Salad Cream. CREAM (STRAWBERRY).—Add to half a pint of cream three ounces of strawberry jam ; pulp it through a sieve; then put to it the juice of half a lemon ; whisk it quickly at the edge of a dish, and lay the froth on a sieve ; add the remainder of the lemon juice, and proceed in the same manner till no more froth will rise ; then put the cream into glasses, or into a dish, and place the froth, well drained, on the top. CREAM (VANILLA).—Take a pint of cream and a pint of milk, and boil them together, throw in a lump of sugar and a little salt ; then beat up with a dozen fine eggs, and rub through a tammy in order that the eggs may be well mixed with the cream, adding a few drops of essence of vanilla. CREAMS, Concerning.—All creams are made in the same way, the only variations being in the taste and colour. It is generally reckoned that fifteen eggs are required for a quart of cream or milk, but where economy is an object less will be found to answer the purpose. Isinglass should be added very cautiously. It is best to try a little in a small mould. If the cream is not stiff enough a little more isinglass may be added with a minimum of trouble. A little salt is needed for all except fruit creams. When made in moulds they may be turned out without difficulty if the mould be steeped for a few moments in lukewarm water. Previous to turning them over on to the dish, the top of the cream should be damped with a clean cloth. CRICKETS, Poison for.—Place a little ginger cordial in a dish before the fire in the evening. The crickets will be attracted by it, and will perish after the repast. CROCUSES, The Treatment of.—Plant in September, at a depth of three or four inches, in a light, moist soil. Take them up every third year for division of the corms or bulbs and for transplantation, but allow their leaves to wither before disturbing them. In small gardens, where space is an object, they may be sown in pots sunk in the earth so as to form beds or baskets, whence they can be removed without injury after they have flowered to make room for summer plants. CROUP.—This disease begins with a short, dry cough, quick breathing, and hoarseness, which are soon followed by a peculiar croaking, rasping, grating sound in the voice, which, when once heard, can never be mistaken. It has been well described as like the noise of a fowl when caught in the hand. It needs immediate medical attention, for if neglected it will destroy life in a couple of days, or even less. When the child is seized with the complaint, immediately place it up to the neck in warm water for a quarter of an hour, dry, and wrap in flannel. Give one or two teaspoonfuls of ipecacuanha wine in a little warm water, sweetened, and if needful repeat it after fifteen minutes, so that the child vomits freely ; then make a poultice two inches thick of two parts bran and one of mustard, put it well up in the throat, and keep it on as long as possible. Three hours after vomiting give a teaspoonful of water with two drops of ipecacuanha wine in it for each year of age up to ten drops. Repeat two or three times in the twenty-four hours, so as to keep the patient on the point of vomiting. Give frequently a spoonful of treacle and vinegar for the cough. CRUMPETS, To Make.—Beat up a couple of fine eggs and put th™,nt0 a qua« of warm milk and water, with a tablespoon iul of yeast • add flour sufficient to make it a little thicker than ordinary batter pudding.'5° Place tin crumpet rings upon a very hot bake-stone, on which butter has been rubbed ; pour the batter into the tins, and bake, turning them quickly with a broad knife. CRUST (SHORT), To Make.—Mix two ounces of powdered white sugar with one pound of flour, and rub into it nearly a quarter of a pound of butter ; put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, mix the whole to a smooth paste, and roll out thin. This should be baked in a moderate oven. CUCUMBER, The Cultivation of.—The hardy or Ridge cucumber should be raised in a frame or hot-bed in April, and planted out about the middle of May on strawed ridges prepared with good stable manure, covering a hand-glass over each plant. The frame varieties may be grown nearly all the year round. For early forcing and summer cultivation a hot-bed is all that is necessary, but for winter fruiting a cucumber house is ndispensable CURDS AND WHEY.—Add a cupful of sour milk to a pint of boiling new milk, and boil the whole up briskly; then stand the saucepan back on the grate and let the milk simmer for a few minutes, when it will be converted into curds and whey. It may likewise be made by simply adding one dram of citric acid to one quart of milk. CURLS, To Fix.—By using a weak solution of either isinglass or gum-arabic in the operation, the hair may be kept permanently in curl. CURRANT (BLACK) SYRUP, for Sore Throats.—Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of white sugar in a pint of water; boil to a syrup with half a pint of strained juice of black currants. CURRANT JUICE, Best Means of Procuring.—Choose only fine large red currants, put them into a jar, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire ; simmer till all the juice is extracted from the fruit, then strain. By this means the juice may be kept longer than if merely pressed out of the skins. CURRANT PRESER VE.—Take the stalks from any quantity of red currants, and also from a fourth part of their weight of white currants ; put them into a preserving pan with half a pint of water, and let them boil till they burst; strain the juice, and clarify it; then take sugar of the same weight as the fruit used, boil it till it melts, pour the juice on it, boil together for fifteen minutes, skim it well, and pour it into jars. CURRANT PUDDING, A Superior.—To a pound of dried currants add a cupful of flour, a pound of suet, half a nutmeg, a little powdered sugar, ginger, and salt; mix with five eggs, and boil for two hours and a half. CURRANT PUDDING, Plain.—Chop up half a pound of suet, and put it with three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of dried currants, and a little salt ; mix to the proper consistence with water, make it into a roll, put it in a cloth, and boil for two hours. CURRANT TART.—Line a pie-dish with puff pastry, sprinkle the bottom with sugar, then put in alternate layers of red currants and raspberries, or mulberries, and sugar ; when full, put on the top crust, and bake it in a quick oven. CURRANTS, To Propagate by Layers.—Trim off all the leaves of the shoot intended to be layered, with the exception of half a dozen; make an incision half way through it from a joint upwards, and keep it open with a small splint of wood ; mix a little gray sand with the mould, bend the layer down, and peg it into the soil, covering it with half an inch of earth ; let it remain for two days, then give it a good watering.5i CURRY POWDER, Best Way of Using.—To one tablespoonful of curry powder, add one of flour, a cupful of milk, a little lemon juice, and salt. Add it to the liquor of any kind of stew about twenty minutes before serving. CURRY POWDER, To Make.—Mix together four ounces each of turmeric, coriander, and black pepper; three ounces of fenugreek, two ounces of ginger ; one ounce each of cumin seed and ground rice ; and half an ounce each of cardamums and cayenne pepper. Dry them well, reduce to a fine powder, and keep in a closely corked bottle. CURRY SOUP.—This may be made from ox-cheek, cow-heel, rabbit, or fowl, but is best prepared from the two first mentioned. Cut up the meat, soak it well, and put it into a stew-pan with three or four sliced onions, a bunch of pot herbs, a little butter, salt, and pepper, half a pound of soaked rice, and a teaspoonful of curry powder. Stew for four hours. For a rabbit or fowl twenty minutes will be sufficient, provided the rice is first parboiled. CUSTARD (BAKED).—Boil cinnamon and mace in a pint of cream or new milk. Strain, and when cold mix it well with six eggs, a spoonful of orange-flower water, with sugar and nutmeg to taste. Pour into cups and bake in a slow oven for about half an hour. CUSTARD (BOILED), A Rich.—Boil a quart of cream with a stick of cinnamon and some lemon peel until it tastes of the spice ; then beat up the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of nine, sweeten them sufficient for the whole, and put them with the cream into a saucepan and simmer till of the proper consistence, stirring one way the whole of the time, then flavour with ratafia or brandy. CUSTARD (BOILED), Plain.—This is made like the rich custard, with the exception that milk is used instead of cream. Bay leaves, or half a dozen bitter almonds may be boiled with the milk instead of the spice and lemon peel. CUSTARD (LEMON).—Beat up the yolks of six or eight eggs till quite white ; add a pint of boiling water, the grated rinds of two lemons and the juice of the same ; sweeten to taste, and stir over the fire ; when sufficiently thick, add a glass of sherry and the same quantity of brandy ; give it a scald up, and pour into cups. Serve cold. CUSTARD PUDDING.—Boil a quart of new milk, stir in a little fine flour. Beat up the yolks of two or three eggs, according to size, sweeten with sugar, add a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of orange or lemon juice. Mix, and boil in a basin or bake in a dish for three-quarters of an hour. CUTLETS (INDIAN).—Take potatoes, onions, flour, and fat. Peel the potatoes, and scrape them as fine as flour ; then mix it with the flour (instead of suet) ; work it up to a fine paste, and flatten it out with the hand. Cut the meat into small pieces and put it in the centre of the paste, with a little onion chopped fine. Make the paste into a ball, with the meat inside ; flatten it out a little, and fry till it is well done. CYCLAMEN, To Propagate.—These sweet-scented flowers are propagated from seed sown directly it is ripe in shallow pans of light, rich earth, and placed under frames where they will receive a good supply of air and a little warmth. Here they are allowed to remain for two or three years, when they are transferred to the open border. The tubers, after flowering and maturing their leaves in the open ground should be stored in a dry and airy place till the end of November, when they may be reset. DAHLIAS, General Treatment of.—These flowers, which bloom from the beginning of August to the end of October, are propagated both by dividing the tuber at the crown, so that each portion is provided with I52 an “eye,” and also by cuttings, which will form tubers by the end of the summer. They must be well protected from the frost during the spring, and may be planted out in the open at the end of May or the beginning of June in good rich hazel loam, at the same time inserting a stake in the ground to support the fragile stem, and encircling this with lime and ashes to protect the young shoots from the ravage of snails and slugs. Earwigs make vigorous onslaughts on the blossom, and should be trapped by placing an inverted flower-pot on the top of a stick, or by hanging hollow bean stalks among the foliage ; these may be emptied into boiling water twice a day. About the second week in November remove the roots carefully from the ground, taking pains not to wound them ; leave them in the open air for a few days to dry, then store them in a dry cellar and cover them with sand till the following March, when they may be divided, put into pots, and placed in a hot-house till all fear of frost is over. DAISIES, To Propagate.—These will grow in any ordinary garden soil, and are useful as edging plants or for small beds. They are propa- gated by root-division in the autumn, but to insure a fine display of flowers it is necessary to perform the operation each year. DAMP WALLS, To Rectify.—Strip the walls and give two coats of varnish in which rosin has been dissolved ; or, better still, though rather more expensive, line them with thick lead paper or tin foil. The walls mav then with safety be decorated with gold, bronze, or delicately-tinted paper. DANDELION (BOILED).—Wash the leaves thoroughly in the same manner as is done for spinach, so as to rid them of all sand or earth, and let them stand in cold water for a couple of hours. Drain them, throw them into boiling water with a little salt, and let them boil from twenty minutes to half an hour ; press out the water, and serve with melted butter. DANDELION (EXTRACT OF), for Liver Complaints.—Dig up the plants in September, wash them thoroughly clean, and pound the leaves and roots in a mortar ; strain the juice into a saucer, and let it stand near the fire till it becomes thick. From one scruple to a dram to be taken every four hours. DANDRUFF.—Put one ounce of quassia chips into a cupful of water; let it stand for twenty-four hours, and apply to the head, brushing it well into the roots. See also Scurf in the Head. DEAFNESS.—Deafness generally arises from deficient secretion of wax in the ear. The following remedy is in some cases useful :—Oil of turpentine, half a dram ; olive oil, two drams ; mix, and insert a couple of drops in the ear at bed-time. Oil of bitter almonds also proves of great service in the treatment of this ailment, especially if a few drops of turpentine or camphor liniment be added to the oil. If the deafness arises from nervous debility a course of tonic medicines should be taken, the diet strictly attended to, and a clove of garlic wrapped in muslin, or a few drops of the juice, introduced into the ear. DECLINE, Remedy for.—Feed as much as possible on raw steak scraped very fine and placed between bread and butter, and drink each day half a pint of warm blood from a sheep or cattle. DELIRIUM TREMENS.—The first symptoms of this disease are tremulousness, wakefulness, nausea, and vomiting, succeeded by clutching at small objects, raving, and fear of evil beings. It is best treated by giving an emetic in the favourite drink of the patient, followed by a pur- gative, and, after the medicine has acted, from ten to fifteen drops of53 laudanum. If the patient suffers from a weak heart, by no means ad- minister laudanum without medical advice, but in its place a strong decoc- tion of wormwood may be used. A mustard plaster on the nape of the neck and on the soles of the feet will hasten the cure. After the attack is over give strong beef tea, chicken broth, and other strengthening food. DENTIFRICE.—The use of finely pulverised charcoal once or twice a day will keep the teeth as white as any of the more costly powders can do, some of which, although at first imparting a pearly appearance, eventually turn them yellow. The juice of the common strawberry is a good natural dentifrice. It requires no preparation or addition, dissolves the calcareous incrustations of the teeth, and renders the breath sweet and agreeable. See also Tooth Powders. DIABETES, Cure for.—To a pint and a half of milk add one dram of alum. Take a gill of this posset four times a day. It generally cures in less than a fortnight. DIAMONDS, To Estimate the Value of.—To determine the value of a diamond double the weight in carats and multiply the square of the product by £2. Thus, a diamond weighing one carat would be worth ;£8, and one weighing ten carats, ^800. DIAMONDS, To Test.—A set diamond maybe tested by placing wax on its back. This operation will not affect the lustre of a true gem, but will totally destroy the brilliancy of paste imitations. DIARRHOEA MIXTURE, for Adults.—Tincture of opium, half a dram ; tincture of ginger, half a dram ; tincture of rhubarb, half a dram ; tincture of peppermint, half a dram ; tincture of capsicum, half a dram. Take fifteen drops in a wineglassful of water every hour till relieved ; increase to twenty drops if necessary. DIARRHCEA, Simple Remedy for.—Take two good-sized acorns grated into a glassful of gin. DIARRHCEA, To Relieve Infants Suffering from.—Aromatic powder of chalk and opium, ten grains ; oil of dill, five drops ; simple syrup, three drams ; water, nine drams. Mix, and give half a teaspoonful to babies under six months old, or one teaspoonful to children over that age. DIPHTHERIA, Simple Remedy for.—Take a common tobacco- pipe, place a live coal within the bowl, drop a little tar upon the coal, and let the patient draw smoke into the mouth and discharge it through the nostrils. Dr. J. Lewis Smith asserts that he has never seen pseudo-membranes disappear more rapidly from the fauces than when the following is used :— Extracti pancreatis, one dram ; sodii bicarbonatis, two drams ; mix ; add one large teaspoonful to six teaspoonfuls of tepid water, and apply by a large camel’s-hair pencil every half hour to the fauces. DISINFECTANTS, Cheap.—Place some wood charcoal in an old iron saucepan, cover it with an iron lid ; stand it over the fire until the charcoal is red-hot, then put a thin layer of it on an iron plate and stand it in any convenient place. A room may be thoroughly deodorised by this simple process. Dr. Richardson states that iodine placed in a small box with a perforated lid destroys organic poison in rooms. In cases of small-pox he has seen this method used with great benefit. DISINFECTING FLUIDS.—Dissolve in a wine-bottle of cold water two ounces of acetate of lead, then add two ounces of strong nitric acid. Shake the bottle, and the fluid will be ready for use. A couple of handfuls of copperas (sulphate of iron) dissolved in a bucket of water makes a valuable disinfectant. A sick room may be quickly disinfected by standing therein a pail ofThis will also water to which has been added a teaspoonful of turpentine, prove a powerful auxiliary against germs and bad odours. DISINFECTING FUME.—Take of common salt, three ounces ; black manganese, one ounce ; oil of vitriol, one ounce ; and water, two ounces. Mix the whole. A little of the mixture carried in a cup through a sick room will remove all foul smells. DISINFECTING PERFUME.—Powder equal quantities of gum-benjamin, storax, and galban with oil of myrrh, and burn the mixture on a hot shovel or iron plate. DIURETIC DROPS.—Mix with one ounce of sweet spirits of nitre half an ounce of aromatic tincture. Fifty drops to be taken three times a day in a glass of water. These drops will be found valuable for promoting a natural flow of urine. DOCUMENTS, To Preserve.—Documents, deeds, and other writings may be kept proof from damp and consequent destruction by brushing a thin coating of gutta percha solution over both back and front of the paper. DODECATHEON ME ADI A, or American Cowslip.—This plant grows best in a partly shaded spot where it will not get too much wet nor remain dry. It delights in a mixture of one-third light loam and two-thirds heath mould. As its stem and leaves die away in the winter, it is advisable to mark its position by a stake or other means. DOGS, Remedies for Bites from.—Burn the wound with caustic, or, if this is not handy, with a red-hot iron, then apply poultices of common table salt and vinegar for three or four days, and allow the flesh to heal. The cautery is not half so painful as most people imagine. Or make a poultice of carbonate of soda ; or scrape the white incrustation from common soda, and apply to the part. Local or general bathing in either warm or cold water is likewise bene- ficial ; but a vapour bath is still more efficacious as a curative agent, by extracting the virus through the pores of the skin. The poison may also be extracted by the following method of dry- cupping :—Dip a piece of paper in spirits of wine, ignite it, throw it into a wineglass, and place the glass bottom upwards over the injured part. DOGS SUFFERING FROM DIARRHOEA, To Cure.— Sulphate of copper, one scruple ; tincture of catechu, two drams ; tincture of opium, two drams ; aromatic spirits of ammonia, three drams ; water, eight ounces. Give a teaspoonful, for a small dog, every four hours ; for a large dog one tablespoonful three times a day. Feed on strong beef tea, with rice water to drink. DOGS, To Destroy Insects on.—Rub the root of the tail with sharp Scotch snuff and the other parts of the coat with borax or oil of turpen- tine. Or dissolve camphor in spirits of wine, and rub the solution into the fur. DRESSES (FADED), To Restore.—Sal volatile or hartshorn will restore colour taken out by acid. It may be dropped upon any garment without injury. Black dresses may be renovated by boiling a handful of fig leaves in two quarts of water till it is reduced to half the quantity, and sponging them with the same. DRIPPING, To Clarify.—Melt the dripping, and pour upon it some boiling water. When cold the pure dripping will be found at the top of the water, while all impurities will fall to the bottom. DROPSY, To Relieve.—Bruise some juniper berries, put them into a jug, and pour upon them boiling water ; cover the jug closely, and when cold strain the liquid for use. Dose: From two to three ounces three times a day.55 Oil of juniper may be taken for the same complaint in doses of from ten to fifteen drops every four hours. DRUNKENNESS, To Cure.—Sulphate of iron, five grains; magnesia, ten grains ; peppermint water, eleven drams ; spirit of nutmeg, one dram. The above forms one draught; two draughts to be taken each day. Take half an ounce of solution of acetate of ammonia in a tumbler of water, sweetened to taste ; or a tablespoonful of hartshorn, taken as above. The following remedy is also considered very effectual:—Red Peruvian bark, soaked and diluted in alcohol, then drained and evaporated to half its original quantity. A tablespoonful to be taken the first and second days, and during the next week or ten days the dose is gradually reduced to about five or six drops. This not only produces a dislike to drink, but leaves no taste. DUCKS (BOILED).—Boil the bird for about half an hour in plain water with just a pinch of salt. When ready for table, pour upon it a good quantity of onion sauce, to which has been added a cupful of rich brown gravy and a spoonful of lemon juice. Some cooks add a little walnut ketchup to the sauce. Ducks may also be boiled with turnips or green peas. DUCKS (HASHED).—Chop up an onion and put it into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter ; fry lightly, then add sufficient boiling water to make sauce for the hash ; thicken with flour, put the limbs of the bird into the sauce with a little ketchup, salt, and pepper, and when the flesh is hot serve with apple sauce. DUCKS (ROAST).—Plunge the duck for a minute in boiling water, skin it, and dean the inside with warm water ; stuff, and roast before a brisk fire till the breast plumps, or from thirty minutes to an hour, accord- ing to size and age. Serve with good brown gravy. DUCKS, To Carve.—Ducks, when large, are carved in the same fashion as geese, but when small they are helped out as chickens. DUCKS, To Choose.—Ducks are best towards November, when they begin to get fat. The feet should be supple, and the breasts hard and plump. The feet of tame ducks are yellow ; those of wild ones red. DUCK STUFFING.—Chop very fine an apple, an onion, and an ounce of sage leaves ; add six ounces of bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, an egg, and a little pepper and salt. DUCKS, WILD (ROAST).—Pluck the bird, removing all the plugs, draw, and pour warm water through the body so as to thoroughly clean it; roast before a brisk fire for half an hour. The breast and the wings are the most palatable parts, which should be served with sliced lemon ; the other parts possess a strong flavour. DUMPLINGS (DOUGH).—Take dough prepared as for bread, cut it into small pieces, and drop it into boiling water ; boil for twenty minutes. Serve with butter and sugar or treacle. DUMPLINGS (DROP).—Beat up two or three eggs, add a gill of milk, mix with half a pound of flour and a little salt to a stiff batter, and drop by spoonfuls into the liquor in which beef or pork is being cooked; boil for ten minutes and serve with the meat. DUMPLINGS (HARD).—Make a paste of flour and small beer, and a little salt, roll it into small balls, and boil them in beef gravy for half an hour. Serve with sugar and melted butter. Water may be substi- tuted for the small beer, and they are sometimes put into boiling water instead of beef gravy. DUMPLINGS (LIGHT).—These are made in the same manner as hard dumplings, with the exception that a little suet and baking-powdel56 are added. They need to be handled very lightly, and should not boil longer than twenty minutes otherwise they become hard. DUMPLINGS (NORFOLK).—Take half a pint of milk, two eggs, and a pinch of salt, and mix them with flour to a thick batter ; roll , into balls, put into boiling water, and boil from twenty to thirty minutes. Send to table with sugar, or butter and treacle. DUMPLINGS (OXFORD). —Grated bread, two ounces; currants and suet, of each four ounces ; flour, two large spoonfuls; grated lemon peel, sugar, and allspice, of each a small quantity. Mix with milk and a couple of eggs, form into four or five dumplings, and fry in batter to a light brown. Serve with sweet sauce. DUTCH DROPS, for Cold, Pains in the Back, or Undue Urinary Retentions.—Oil of turpentine, one ounce; spirit of nitric ether, one ounce; tincture of guaiacum, one ounce ; oil of amber, half a dram ; cloves, half a dram. One teaspoonful to be taken three times a day. DUTCH TERRAS, for Outside Walls.—Grind some basalt to a fine powder, then mix some blue argillaceous lime with water, and beat the whole together. DYSENTERY, Remedy for.—Beat an egg up lightly with a little sugar, and swallow it at a gulp. This tends to lessen the inflammation of the stomach and intestines, and to form a transient coating on these organs. In ordinary cases two or three eggs a day are sufficient. DYSPEPSIA, To Prevent.—Nausea and dyspepsia may be pre* vented by drinking a cup of hot water before meals. EARACHE, Cure for.—Mix a little sulphuric ether with an equal quantity of oil of almonds. Let the sufferer recline on a couch with the affected ear uppermost, and have a couple of drops inserted into it. It usually affords relief. Or, a drop or two of laudanum or glycerine warmed in a spoon may be applied in the same manner, in either case introducing afterwards a piece of soft wool. EARS, To Relieve Noise in the.—This unpleasant affection may in many cases be relieved, and sometimes permanently cured, by dropping into the ear a little warm onion juice. A good nourishing diet is essential, and if necessary a tonic should be taken to create an appetite. EARWIGS, To Destroy.—Drive some stakes into the ground and place inverted flower-pots upon them, or hang clean tobacco-pipe bowls or hollow bean-stalks among the foliage. These should be examined twice a day, and their living contents emptied into boiling water. The insects will more generally be found upon dahlias, pinks, and roses, to which they do incalculable damage. ECZEMA.—To one tablespoonful of carbolic acid, and the same amount of glycerine add twenty ounces of water. Apply externally night and morning, or whenever the irritation is felt, rubbing it well into the flesh with the hands. Or, mix thirty grains of red oxide of mercury and one ounce of lard. Apply frequently to the parts affected. Avoid stimulants and acids. EEL PIE.—Choose some middling-sized eels, skin, and cut them into pieces about two inches long ; season with pepper, salt, mace, parsley, and mushrooms ; lay the fish in a dish with a few bits of butter, a tea- cupful of veal stock, and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Cover with a light paste, and bake one hour. EELS (BOILED).—Choose the smallest for this purpose. Remove the gut, heads, and skin ; wash them well, and simmer in a small quantity of salt and water, with chopped parsley. Garnish with sprigs of pars- ley, and serve with parsley sauce, that is, melted butter and chopped parsley.57 EELS (BROILED).—Gut and clean the fish without removing the skin, cut them into lengths of six or seven inches, coat them well with the yolk of eggs, and strew them over with bread crumbs, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt. Rub the gridiron over with suet, to prevent the skin sticking to it, and broil to a nice light brown. Serve with melted butter and anchovy sauce. Large eels are best for this purpose. EELS (COLLARED).—Select some fine large eels, clean them, and remove the bones, but leave the skin on. Spread out the flesh and rub it well all over with finely chopped parsley, sage, and mixed spice ; then bind it up tightly with broad tape, and boil for three-quarters of an hour, with a large handful of salt and a bay leaf in the water; remove the fish and hang to dry for ten or twelve hours. Add to the fish-water a pint of vinegar, some thyme, and a little whole pepper. Let them boil together for ten or fifteen minutes, then stand the liquor by. After the eels have hung the allotted time, carefully remove the tape, cut the fish into slices, and put them into the liquor. Send to table garnished with sprigs of parsley. EELS (FRIED).—Skin, empty, and wash the eels ; cut them into lengths of about four inches, and dry them. Season with salt and pepper, flour thickly, and fry in boiling lard. Drain, and send to table with plain melted butter and a lemon. EEL SOUP.—Take two pounds of eels, and put them into a stew-pan with two quarts of water, an onion, a small piece of mace, a little whole pepper, lemon thyme, winter savory, and parsley. Cover close down and stew till the fish separates, or till half the liquor has boiled away, then strain. Toast some bread, cut it into angular pieces, put them into a tureen, and pour the soup over them. Carrot is sometimes used to brown the soup. EELS (STEWED).—The more simply this dish is made the better the flavour of the fish is preserved. When cleaned, cut them into pieces about three inches long, and fry them until half cooked. Then put them into a stew-pan with enough good beef gravy to cover them, a partly boiled onion, and parsley ; flavour with pepper, salt, a little shred lemon peel, mace, cloves, and nutmeg. Stew gently till tender. A glass of sherry wine, a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, and a couple of finely-chopped anchovies may be added ; or a glass of port wine with the juice of half a lemon is sometimes preferred. Strain, thicken with the yolk of egg, or butter rolled in flour, and serve. EFFERVESCING POWDERS.—Mix five parts of well dried tartaric acid with six parts of bicarbonate of soda, and add sufficient strong alcohol to reduce it to a moist condition ; then pass it through a moder- ately coarse sieve, and stand it to dry. If desired, it may be flavoured with a little oil of lemon dissolved in the alcohol. Upon the addition of water the mixture will effervesce to the last atom. EGG BROUILLES.—Beat together the yolks and whites of eight eggs, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a little pepper and salt ; stir constantly with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until done, taking care that the brouiltes do not become clotty. Add a spoonful of broth, with cucumbers or asparagus heads. EGG CROQUETTES.— Cut the whites of nine hard-boiled eggs into small dice, and press the yolks of three eggs through a hair sieve (more yolks would make the croquettes too dry). Next cut an onion into dice, pour over it two ounces of hot butter, add gradually a spoonful of flour, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with boiling milk. Throw the whites and yolks into the sauce. Let them cool, and cover them with bread crumbs. Serve garnished with fried parsley. 9EGG FLIP.—Mix a pint of porter with the same amount of ale, pour it into a saucepan and make it warm ; add a quartern of gin, four eggs well beaten, a little nutmeg, and sufficient sugar to make it pleasant; pour backwards and forwards into a jug ; again place it over the fire, but do not allow it to boil. EGG HOT.—Pour a quart of old ale into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and add a little spice; then beat up six eggs in a large jug, and as the ale begins to warm take the froth off and add it to the eggs, continuing the beating up with each spoonful until the ale is near the point of boiling ; then pour a quartern of rum into the ale, and when it boils empty it very quickly into the jug, and pour it a few times to and fro, from vessel to vessel. Add sugar and spice to suit the palate. EGGS A LA MAITRE D’PIOTEL.—Roll a little flour in butter, moisten with boiling milk, and let it simmer for half an hour ; then throw a good quantity of butter into the sauce with some finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Stir until the butter is melted, slice boiled eggs into the sauce, add the juice of a lemon, and send to table quite hot. EGGS AND BACON.—Toast the bacon before the fire for about ten minutes, then put the fat into a frying-pan, make it quite hot, and break the eggs into it; pour fat over them repeatedly until the yoik becomes light ; dredge with salt and pepper, and serve. EGGS (CURRIED).—Make a cupful of gravy boiling hot, stir in a teaspoonful of curry powder, and lay in six hard-boiled eggs cut into thick slices. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes, turn the whole into a deep dish, and serve with boiled rice. EGGS (FRIED).—Break separately into a cup, without damaging the yolks, say, half a dozen eggs, put them into a dish, and sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Then fry two ounces of butter, pour it over the eggs, put the whole into a frying-pan, and cook at a little distance from the fire. When done at the bottom, pass the salamander or a red-hot shovel over them till they turn white ; dish up carefully, and pour a little vinegar over them. EGGS (POACHED).—Half fill a saucepan with water, add a little vinegar and salt, and let it simmer ; then break the eggs separately in a cup, put them into the water, and boil three minutes. Three or four only should be boiled at one time, so as to ensure them all being cooked to the same degree. When a quantity are wanted, put those that are done into a basin of warm wrater while others are preparing. Trim them round, and dish them upon buttered toast, or, if for dinner, upon spinach. They are also served with veal gravy, clarified gravy, &c. EGG PUDDING.—Beat up half a dozen good-sized eggs, and mix them with two tablespoonfuls of flour and a pint and a half of milk ; add salt, nutmeg, lemon and orange-flower water to flavour, and boil for rather over an hour in a floured cloth. Serve with a sweet sauce. EGG-SHELLS, To Prevent the Corruption of.—Egg-shells in- tended for cabinets may be preserved from corruption by pouring into them a solution of corrosive sublimate, and shaking it about so that it comes into contact with every portion of the membrane. EGGS, To Preserve.—One of the easiest methods of preserving eggs is to pack them with the small end downwards, in clean, dry salt, and place them in a dry, cool situation. Eggs intended for keeping should never be laid upon their sides. The Scotch method is to place them in a netting, or in a sieve or colander, and immerse them for an instant in a vessel of boiling water before packing them away, keeping them free from damp straw., sawdust, or other matter that might communicate a musty flavour*59 EGGS (WHITES OF), To Beat.—If a pinch of salt is put with the white of an egg. the temperature of the albumen will immediately fall, and the cold egg will froth rapidly. ELDER-FLOWER OINTMENT.—Melt in an earthen vessel one pound of lard and a quarter of a pound of mutton suet with a table- spoonful of water; stir together and add a pint of elder-flower water. Agitate for an hour and set it aside ; the next day gently pour off the water, re-melt the ointment, and add seven drops of benzoic acid, one drop each of otto of roses, essence of bergamot, and oil of rosemary; a^ain agitate, let it settle for a few minutes, then pour off the clear into pots. °ELDER-FLOWER WATER.—Half fill a vessel with the flowers when fresh plucked from the tree, and fill the vessel up with boiling water. When cold, strain off. A little only should be made at a time, as it will not keep long. EMBROCATION, A Useful.—Mix together four ounces of soap liniment, one ounce of spirits of camphor, half an ounce of oil of thyme, and two drams of tincture of opium. Rub the mixture well into the skin. This embrocation is recommended for rheumatic gout, lumbago, and tooth-ache. EMETICS.—A teaspoonful of mustard taken in half a tumbler of rather hot water is an old and safe remedy for relieving the stomach. A more powerful one, which scarcely ever fails, is made by stirring thirty grains of zinc sulphate into half a glass of warm water. This, however, should only be given to adults. EMETIC (LOBELIA).—Pour a pint of boiling water on to an ounce of lobelia powder, let it stand till cold. Dose : A fluid ounce every half hour till sickness ensues. ENAMEL PAINT.—Grind up the required colour on a stone with a sufficient amount of turpentine, let the spirit evaporate, then regriud the colour with copal varnish, when it will be ready for use. ENDIVE, To Cook.—Wash and clean the heads and search in the heart for worms ; remove all the green part of the leaves, wash the vegetables again in two or three waters, and blanch them to take off the bitter taste. Then throw them into cold water for ten minutes, after which squeeze them dry and chop them very fine. Put them into a saucepan, pour upon them enough veal gravy to cover them, add a little salt and a small piece of sugar, and boil till fender. Serve either for entremets under poached eggs, or for entries, such as minced mutton, fillets of fowl, sweet- breads, &c. It should never be too strongly seasoned. This vegetable is very strengthening and easy of digestion. ENDIVE, To Grow.—For an early crop sow the seed in April or May ; at the same time it must be observed that these early sowings are aot to be depended upon for a principal crop, as the plants are apt to run to seed. For a full crop, sow about the end of July or the beginning of August, and when the plants are large enough set them at a distance of a foot one from the other, and water well till they are established. When the endive is full grown, tie it up so that it may become blanched. The green curled variety stands the winter best. ENEMA, A Laxative.—Dissolve an ounce and a half of Epsom salts in half a pint of gruel or beef tea, and add an ounce of olive oil. Inject as quickly as possible. ENEMA, A Strengthening.—Thicken half a pint of strong beef- tea with arrowroot or isinglass. ENEMA for Colic or Spasms.—Mix two ounces of starch with three grains of opium, reduce to a fine powdet, then add a wineglassful of warm water.6o ENGRAVINGS (MILDEWED), To Clean.—Place the en- graving in a bath of clean water for two hours, then dry it between blot- ting-paper, and repeat the process. When quite dry run over the under side of the engraving with a solution of chloride of lime, in the proportion of one part lime to twenty parts water. The wrorst places may be touched with dilute nitric acid (one part acid to ten parts water), then wash and dry as before. The great difficulty of this method, however, is to avoid injury being done to the engraving, as the paper becomes quite pulpy and friable before it is dry. ENGRAVINGS, To Clean.—Spread the picture on a smooth board, cover it with finely-powdered salt, which dissolve with lemon juice ; cleanse by pouring boiling water over it, and let it dry in a shady spot in the open air. If dried before the fire or by the heat of the sun it will acquire a yellow tinge. ENGRAVINGS, To Transfer.—Dip a sheet of white paper in a weak solution of starch, and, after it is dry, in a weak solution of oil of vitriol; let this dry also. Place the engraving over the vapour of iodine for a few seconds, and put it in a press covered with a sheet of the prepared paper ; let them remain for a few minutes, when an excellent copy will be produced. ERUPTIONS OF THE FACE, Mixture for.—Ipecacuanha wine, four drams ; flowers of sulphur, two drams ; tincture of cardamom, one ounce. Mix. A teaspoonful to be taken three times a day. ERUPTIONS OF THE SKIN, Lotion for.—Milk of bitter almonds, seven ounces ; bichloride of mercury, four grains ; spirits of rosemary, one ounce. Mix. Bathe the eruptions with the lotion three times a day. ERUPTIONS OF THE SKIN, Ointment for.—Simmer a little beef marrow over the fire, stir in a teaspoonful of brandy and a pinch of salt, then strain. Apply cold. ERUPTIONS OF THE SKIN, Powders for.—Flowers of sulphur, half a dram ; carbonate of soda, a scruple; tartarised antimony, one-eighth of a grain. Mix. One powder to be taken night and morning. LooENTIAL OIL, To Extract.—Essential oil may be extracted from herbs, roots, or barks by putting them into a bottle and pouring upon them a spoonful or so of ether. Cork well, and keep in a cool place for a few hours, then fill the bottle with cold water. The oil will swim upon the surface, and may be readily separated. ETCHING FLUIDS FOR STEEL.—Pyroligneous acid, four ounces ; alcohol, one ounce ; mix, and add nitric acid, one ounce, all by measure. Or, one ounce of iodine ; half a dram of iron filings, and four ounces of water. Mix, and dissolve. ETCHING GROUND FOR STEEL.—White wax, twoounces; black and Burgundy pitch, of each half an ounce ; melt together ; add by degrees powdered asphaltum, two ounces ; boil till a drop taken out on a plate will break, when cold, by being bent double two or three times ; then pour it into warm water, and form into small balls for use. Or melt together an equal weight of linseed oil and mastic. EVERLASTING FLOWERS, for Winter Bouquets.—Cut the flowers before they are fully expanded and suspend them heels upwards until they are perfectly stiff and dry. They may be made to assume various colours by dyeing. EVERTON TOFFEE.—Put half a pound of butter into a sauce- pan, and when it has melted add a pound of moist sugar and a pound ol6i treacle. Boil together for ten minutes, then pour it into a well greased flat dish. EYE (BLACK).—See Black Eye, Cure for a. EYE, For Lime in the.—To one ounce of warm vinegar add eight ounces of water. Syringe the eye well with it, and then exclude the light. EYELASHES, To Promote the Growth of.—The simple method employed by the ladies in Eastern countries, who are proverbially famed for the length of their eyelashes, is to periodically clip off the ends. Mothers perform this operation on the children while they are very young, repeating it about every six weeks, and the practice never fails of the desired effect. EYES (BLOODSHOT), Lotion for.—Mix twelve grains of sulphate of zinc, one dram of wine of opium, and six ounces of rosewater. Work it well into the eyes by closing and opening them in rapid succession while bathing. EYES (DEAD), The Restoration of.—A Frenchman has lately discovered that a life-like expression may be restored to the eyes of dead persons by placing a few drops of glycerine and water in the corners, the effect of which, he states, is startling. EYES (INFLAMED).— Pour a very small quantity of wine of opium into a small quill or straw, and, holding the eye open with the thumb and finger, insert therein a couple of drops. This will be found effectual for the removal of long-continued inflammation. The juice of houseleek mixed with cream is used most successfully in many rural districts. EYES, Singleton’s Golden Ointment for the.—Mix orpiment with lard to the consistence of an ointment. A very little should be used at once. The best way of using it is just to touch the edge of the eyelash with a feather which has touched the unguent. This is an excellent oint- ment for weak eyes. EYES (SORE), Salve for.—Add to any quantity of lard just sufficient red precipitate powder to impart a deep flesh colour. Will be found of great service when the eyes are gummed and difficult to open. EYES, To Allay Excessive Discharge of the.—Mix one dram of white vitriol with the same quantity of alum, and add thereto one pint of water. When dissolved filter through paper. EYES, To Remove Dust from the.—Dust or small insects may frequently be readily removed from the eye by taking hold of the lashes of the upper lid and drawing it as far out and down as possible over the lower one, which, acting as a kind of brush, will remove any particle lodged within the eye. EYES (WEAK), For.—To seven grains of acetate of lead add seven grains of white vitriol, four ounces of elder-flower water, one dram of laudanum, and one dram of spirits of camphor ; strain, and apply. EYES (WEAK), Lotion for.—Dissolve fifteen grains of white vitriol in eight ounces of camphor water and eight ounces of decoction of poppy- heads. This when applied will allay the pain and cleanse the eyes. EYE WATER, A valuable.—Put into three pints of cold water three spoonfuls of salt and one spoonful of white copperas, and let them boil together lightly. When cold put into bottles. It should not be strained. One or two drops in the eye morning and evening will cure red- ness, rheums, pearls, &c. Should it cause pain, add more water. FABRICS (WASHING), To Remove Spots from.—Spots may be removed from fabrics that will wash by rubbing them with the yolk ol an egg before sending them to the laundry.62 FACE-ACHE.—Apply hot bran or bread poultices to the cheek. Or rub the face with camphorated oil, and cover the part with a piece of hot flannel. A little warm laudanum dropped into the ear on the side which is affected often gives relief. If the pain proceeds from the jaw put a few drops of tincture of cayenne on cotton lint and place it between the cheek and teeth. FAINTING FITS, Stimulant for.—Put some acetate of potash into a bottle, pour a little sulphuric acid upon it, and apply to the nostrils. Or if these remedies be not at hand, a little spirits of hartshorn will answer the purpose. A few drops of the latter may also be given in a little warm brandy and water. Give as much air as possible and undo anything tight that may be round the throat. FAIRY RINGS, To Eradicate.—Fairy rings maybe removed from lawns, &c., by covering them over thickly with salt. The grass will after- wards appear dead for a while, but it will gradually revive. FARCES.—See Forcemeats; Game, Farcing for; and Veal Stuffing. FAWN, Saddle of.—This is only sent up when bulky dishes are wanted to cover an extraordinarily large table. Take the saddle and the two legs of the fawn, lard the fillets and both legs, and put them into a large vessel with vinegar, sliced onions, parsley, spices, pepper and salt; turn the meat frequently in the pickle for two or three days, then roast it, and send to table with gravy under it, accompanied with mint sauce. FEATHERS (BLACK), To Re-dip and Curl.—Wash the feathers in soap and water, using the best curd soap and very hot water ; rinse them thoroughly in clear water, and dry them. Then make a solution of one ounce of sulphate of iron in a quart of scalding water, place the feathers therein and let them remain until the liquor is cold, when they may be removed and placed in the shade to dry. Next boil half an ounce of logwood and half an ounce of gall nuts in a copper vessel containing a quart of water. While the liquor is scalding hot immerse the feathers in it, and let them remain till it is cold ; then rinse them in clear cold water and shake them dry. Lastly rub over them the smallest quantity of neats’ foot oil, so as to bring out a glistening appearance, and proceed to the curling. This is accomplished by drawing the down between the thumb and a blunt penknife. Simple as this operation seems, it requires great care and delicacy of touch to ensure the curls falling in a uniform manner. FEATHERS, General Directions for Dyeing.—Immerse the feathers for a few moments in hot water, let them drain, then put them into the dye ; afterwards rinse them in two or three baths of cold water, and shake them dry ; finally, draw them between the thumb and the back of a knife so as to raise the down and restore their natural curl. FEATHERS (BLUE), To Dye.—Put powdered indigo into oil Df vitriol; let it stand for a couple of days, then shake it well and put about a tablespoonful of the liquid into a quart of boiling water. Stir it well, immerse the feathers therein, and let them simmer for five or ten minutes. FEATHERS (CRIMSON), To Dye.—Immerse in an acetate of alumina mordant, then in a boiling-hot decoction of Brazil-wood, and afterwards pass it through a bath of cudbear. FEATHERS (GREEN), To Dye.—Mix powdered indigo with oil of vitriol; let it stand for a day or two, then add enough turmeric to produce the colour desired ; pour to the mixture some boiling water, and simmer the feathers in the dye. FEATHERS (LILAC), To Dye.—Put into a quart of boiling water a dessert-spoonful of cudbear ; let it simmer for a few minutes, then put in the feathers.63 FEATHERS (RED), To Dye.—Dissolve a teaspoonful of cream of tartar in a quart of boiling water ; then add a tablespoonful of prepared cochineal and a few drops of muriate of tin. Immerse the feathers in the liquid till they have acquired the depth of colour desired. FEATHERS (ROSE COLOUR), To Dye.—Dip in a solution of safflower to which lemon juice has been added. FEATHERS (WHITE), To Clean.—Immerse them for a short time in naphtha or benzine, so as to free them from all dirt and grease, rinsing in a second vessel of the same, then thoroughly dry them by ex- posing them to the air. Make a bath of permanganate of potass, five parts to one thousand parts of water, to which add a solution of the same strength of Epsom salts (sulphate of magnesia), heat it to 140 degrees Fahrenheit, put in the feathers, and afterwards rinse in clear water, then pass them through very weak sulphuric acid and water. They may likewise be renovated by freeing them from dirt and grease as directed above, then exposing them to the vapour of burning sulphur in a moist atmosphere. FEATHERS (YELLOW), To Dye.—Put sufficient turmeric into boiling water to produce the desired shade, then steep the feathers therein. An orange hue may be obtained by adding to the turmeric a very small quantity of Scotch soda. FEATHERS, To Cleanse them from Animal Oil.—To every gallon of water add one pound of quicklime ; let it stand till the undis- solved lime is precipitated, then pour off the clear water for use. Put the feathers into a tub, cover them well with the lime water, and let them soak for three or four days ; after which lay them upon a sieve, and when they are thoroughly drained wash them in clean water ; and dry them upon nets, the meshes of which should be about the size of those used for cabbages. As they dry and fall through the net, collect them together, and finally beat the dust from them with a stick. FEET (COLD).—This complaint is caused by defective circula- tion. It may be relieved to a very large extent by taking a sharp walk in the morning, and by wearing an indiarubber bandage next the skin, passing it over the toes and bringing it round to the ankles. This keeps in the warmth engendered by the exercise. FEET, For Tender.—Wash them in warm salt water every night, and dust the inside of the stockings with oxide of zinc. FEET, Profuse Sweating of the.—In most cases warm brine baths used every night, alternated with baths of oak-bark decoction in which alum has been dissolved (one ounce to each quart), and washing with carbolic soap, will effect a cure. Another good plan is to wash the feet night and morning, and then swab them with a strong solution of sulphite of soda (one ounce to the pint of water). Strict attention should be paid to the general health, and specially to the bowels. Great relief may also be obtained by sprinkling the inside of the sock with finely-powdered boracic acid, or with equal quantities of oxide of zinc and powdered starch. .FELT HATS, Dye for.—Take a quarter of a pound of logwood chips and simmer them in a pint of rain-water till the liquor is reduced to half the quantity ; brush it while boiling hot over the hat, and hang out in the air to dry. The colour will be equal to new. FERMENTATION, To Check.—The fermentation of all liquors, preserves, syrups, &c., may be effectually checked by adding a small piece of sulphate of potass. ' 1 *64 FERMENTATION, To Promote.—Heat a little of the wort, pour it upon yeast, and add it to the new beer. The whites of eggs beaten up with brandy, or a little powdered ginger will answer the same purpose. The wort should not be disturbed. FESTERS, Poultice for.—Boil some bread in stout, or the lees of strong beer if they are obtainable, and apply in the ordinary manner. FEVER PATIENTS, To Comfort.—Fever patients can be made cool and comfortable by frequent spongings off with soda-water. FEVERS, Cooling Drink for.—Pour a quart of boiling water upon a quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, a few pieces of lemon and orange, and half an ounce of sugar candy. Pour off the clear fluid when cold, and decant for a common drink. FIELD MICE, To Destroy.—Bore a number of holes all over the plantation, about twenty inches deep, and wider at the bottom than at the top. These, if baited and properly tended, will catch great numbers. FIG PUDDING.—Chop finely half a pound of figs and a quarter of a pound of beef suet, and put them into a basin with half a pound of bread crumbs, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, four ounces of flour, and four ounces of sugar. Mix together with a wooden spoon. Then beat up an egg with a gill of milk and pour it on to the other ingredients ; make into a rather moist paste, adding a little salt. Steep a pudding-cloth in boiling water, squeeze it out, sprinkle with flour, and tie it over the basin. Boil for two hours and a half. Serve with lemon or brandy sauce. FILTER, A Cheap.—A good water filter can be produced at little expense in the following manner:—Take a flower-pot, fill the hole with a piece of sponge and the rest of the pot with alternate layers of sand, char- coal, and small pebbles. The flower-pot thus fitted up may then be placed on a jar or other convenient vessel, into which the water as it filters can be received. FINGER NAILS (INGROWING), To Remedy.—Nails grown into the flesh may be rectified by the simple expedient of cutting a notch in the middle of the nail every time it is pared. The tendency of the nail to close the notch will draw it up from the sides. FINGER NAILS, To Prevent Children Biting their.—As soon as the child is perceived to have contracted this bad habit, rub a little bitter aloes upon the tips of its fingers, or, if this does not effect a cure, tie stalls upon them until the habit is forsaken, otherwise the appearance of the hand will be spoiled. FINGER NAILS, To Whiten.—To two drams of diluted sulphuric acid, add one dram of tincture of myrrh and four ounces of spring water. The tips of the fingers to be dipped in the mixture after washing. FIRE-EXTINGUISHING LIQUIDS.—To five or six ounces of ammonia add one gallon of water. This is said to be very effectual in subduing the flames. A strong solution of soda with salt added is a good and handy extinguisher of fire. FIRE IN A CHIMNEY, To Extinguish.—Keep the door and windows of the room closely shut, and, if possible, throw on the smouldering mass a few handfuls of salt. If the lighted soot is out of reach throw a handful of flower of sulphur on the fire in the grate and hold a wet blanket before the fire-place, so as to exclude the air and prevent the fumes of the brimstone entering the room. The vapour arising from the sulphur will effectually extinguish the fire. FIRE, To Render Clothing, &c., Proof against.—An ounce or so of alum added to the last water in which the articles are rinsed will render65 them uninflammable, or so slightly combustible that they would take fire very slowly, if at all, and would not burn with a flame. Wood sufficiently soaked in a strong solution of alum does not easily take fire, and the same is true of paper impregnated with it. FISH (BOILED). To Render it Firm.—Fish may be kept firm after it is cooked by adding a quarter of an ounce of ammonia to a gallon of the salt water in which it is to be boiled. FISH CAKES.—Put a good quantity of lard or dripping into a saucepan and make it hot. Then put into a basin one pound of mashed potatoes, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper ; stir in one ounce of hot butter. Remove the skin and bones from the fish, break it in flakes, and stir it in lightly with the potatoes; beat up an egg, and add sufficient to bind the whole together, but do not make it too moist ; divide it into small portions, and shape it on a floured board into cakes an inch thick. Brush over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and fry for about five minutes in the hot fat; drain, and serve garnished with fried parsley. FISH CURRIES.—Cut into thin slices two or three onions, fry them lightly, and put them into some good white stock, with some butter and curry powder, season with sugar, cayenne pepper, lemon juice, and salt, and boil the whole together ; strain into a clean saucepan, put in the fish, and boil it gently, shaking the pan occasionally, and taking care not to break the fish. Send to table on a dish surrounded with mashed potatoes or boiled rice. Rice should always accompany this dish. FISHES, To Preserve.—Make a clean opening in the belly of the fish and remove the entrails ; rub the inside well with pepper, and stuff the cavity with oakum. Small fishes may be preserved in spirits. FISH (GOLD).—Gold fish should be kept in ponds which are daily supplied with fresh river-water, and are well shaded with water-lilies. They may be shallow in most parts, but should be sunk to a good depth at others. In China it is common to feed them with lean pork, dried in the sun and reduced to a powder, and with small balls of paste, but they will exist upon the small worms alone which are common to the water. Sudden fright, loud noises, and strong smells are fatal to them. If the spawn is seen floating upqp the top of the pond it is advisable to take it off, put it in a glass globe and expose it to the heat of the sun to hatch. FISH (SALT), To Bake.—Soak three pounds of salt fish in plenty of cold water for twenty-four hours, changing the water several times. Steam the fish for half an hour; cut it into half a dozen pieces, and lay them in a baking-dish ; sprinkle them with two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs^the same quantity of finely-chopped parsley, a teaspoonful each of chopped herbs and pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg. Place some pieces of tat on the top, and bake for forty minutes. OT1/f *T SR°P,S-TSai ammonia> one pound ; prepared kali, a pound pints3 ha f ’ asafcetlda’ four ounces proof spirits, six pints. Distil to five FLANNEL ... (SCARLET), To Wash.—Make a soap jelly by cutting some soap up into soft water and placing it in a jar to melt in the P" into warm water and stir it to a lather; rub the flannel through! w thoat using any more soap ; rinse in clear warm water, wring it hard shake out well, and hang it up at once to dry—if in the house, not too near the FLANNEL. To Prevent the Shrinking of.—Put the new flannel fortnight1 'lCUt °Ut u°r garments)into clear cold water, keep it in‘for a fortnight, changing the water every alternate day, and then wash out the Snet£r„rrr^Sd WhC" ) 1066 FLATULENCY, To Relieve.—Beat together one dram of refined sugar and ten drops of oil of anise-seed, then add two drams of tincture of ginger, four grains of rhubarb, and six ounces of peppermint-water. Dose : Three tablespoonfuls whenever needed. FLIES, To Destroy.—With one pint of infusion of quassia mix four ounces of brown sugar and two ounces of pepper. Put the mixture into small shallow dishes, and distribute them about the rooms. A mixture of black pepper, brown sugar, and cream, or strong green tea, sweetened, is also effectual. FLOUNDERS (BAKED).—Open each flounder and remove all the small bones, put them into a buttered dish, sprinkle with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, parsley, green onions, and bread raspings ; add a little butter, then bake. When done drain off the butter, and serve with caper sauce, with a little essence of anchovies and lemon juice in it. FLOUNDERS (BOILED).—Cut the flounders in two, and boil them in salt and water with an onion, sweet herbs, cloves, and pepper. When done serve with shrimp sauce on a dish garnished with red cabbage. FLOUNDERS (FRIED).—Cut them open, wash, and rub both the insides and outsides with salt; let them stand for a couple of hours to ensure firmness, then dip them first in egg and afterwards in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping till of a nice brown. FLOUR CAUDLE, for Infants. — Put a tablespoonful of flour into a basin, and rub it smooth with cold water ; pour upon it a cupful of boiling milk, sweeten, and boil for twenty minutes over a slow fire, stirring constantly. FLOUR (MUSTY), To Restore.—If to each fourteen pounds of musty flour one ounce of magnesia be added, it will have the effect of re- storing it to its normal condition. FLOUR (SELF-RAISING).—To each pound of flour add a quarter of an ounce of baking powder ; well mix, pass through a fine sieve, and store in a very dry place. A little powdered white sugar is sometimes added, but this is optional. FLOUR, To Detect Adulteration of.—Take a cupful of the flour and bake it until it is of a uniform deep brown, then rub it on to a board with the hands, when, if the flour is adulterated with chalk or plaster of Paris, it will at once be discovered by the white particles which will be seen mixed with the brown. Or, pour a little sulphuric acid on to it. If chalk or whiting be present effervescence will ensue. The purity of wheaten flour may be determined by taking up a handful and squeezing it into a ball. If it is pure it will adhere together. Another test is to place a small quantity on a table and blow it gently. If pure, the slightest breath will blow it into a cloud. If little heaps remain behind and resist the action of the breath, it is an indication of an ad- mixture. FLOWERS (FADED), To Revive.—Immerse one-third of the stalks in hot water, which let stand till cold ; then cut off the ends of the stalks and put them in cold water with some carbonate of soda. FLOWER SEEDS, To Ascertain if Ripe.—Put into water a sample of the seeds to be gathered ; if fully ripe the seeds will sink to the bottom, while if they are not fit for gathering they will float upon the surface. FLOWERS, To Extract Essential Oil from.—Place in an earthen pot a layer of the flowers, cover them with a layer of finely-ground salt, and repeat the operation till the vessel is full; cover closely and set in a67 dark cellar for six weeks, then press the essence through a crape strainer, pour it into a clear glass bottle, and expose it for forty days to the sun’s heat and evening dews to purify. A single drop of the essence thus ex- pressed will scent a pint of water. FLOWERS, To Preserve.—Cut flowers may be prevented from withering by immersing them two or three times in a solution of gum arabic and water, allowing one coating of the gum to dry before giving the next. Flowers in water may be preserved for a fortnight by adding a little car- bonate of soda or saltpetre to the water. Salt also helps to prolong their freshness. FLUMMERY (FRENCH).—Melt half an ounce of isinglass, and stir it into a quart of cream. Boil it over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time ; sweeten, and add a spoonful of rose-water. Wet a mould, pour the flummery in, and let it stand till cold. FLYCATCHERS.—Boil linseed oil with a little yellowrosin until it forms a viscid, stringy paste when cold. Spread it upon paper by means of a large brush. Or, melt a quarter of a pound of rosin, mix it with two ounces of treacle and one dram of Venice turpentine, and spread it on paper. FORCEMEATS.—Mix together six ounces of bread crumbs, two ounces of lean ham, two ounces of butter, six ounces of finely-shred beef suet, a little thyme, parsley, and mace, a pineh of cayenne, the yolks of three eggs, and a dessert-spoonful of salt; then add a tablespoonful of milk and twelve drops of essence of lemon. Mix again, form into balls, and fry in lard, or use as stuffing. FORGET-ME-NOT.—Dwarf plants for pot culture of this charm- ing little flower may be obtained by striking terminal shoots, during the early part of spring, in a gentle bottom-heat, and allowing them a good supply of water, light, and air. FOWLS (BOILED).—Empty the fowl without making too large an aperture, singe it, and scald the legs, skewer to it a good thick slice of fat bacon, put it into boiling hot broth, and let it simmer from an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to size. When done, drain it in a dish, wipe off the fat, and send it to table with some of the liquor in which it was boiled. FOWLS’ EGGS, To Increase the Laying of.—A teaspoonful of cayenne pepper mixed with the food of each dozen of fowl and given every other day will greatly increase the laying powers of the birds. A little lime, especially bricklayers' rubbish, old ceilings, &c., is beneficial. Some persons throw egg-shells to the birds, but this practice is not to be com- mended, as it teaches them to eat their eggs. FOWLS (ROAST).—Clean the fowl thoroughly, and put a small piece of salt butter, covered with pepper, inside ; secure a piece of greased paper over the breast, and hang it to roast ; when half done, remove the paper, so that it may become of a nice uniform colour. It will take from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour to do. Serve with bread sauce, or parsley and butter. FOWLS (ROAST), To Carve As fowls are generally served in couples, it is not considered indecorous to remote one irom the dish to the plate of the carver. Fix the fork firmly into the centre of the breast, slip the knife under the legs, lay the joint over with a jerk, and the part will give way. Detach the wing in the same way, and do the same with the other leg and wing. Next remove the merry-thought by slipping the knife through at the point of the breast and bending it back ; draw out the neck bones by putting the fork through them and wrenching them carefully away68 so as not to break them ; separate the breast by cutting through the ribs ; then turn the trunk over and separate the back-bone. FOWLS (SICK), To Cure.—A few leeks chopped fine and mixed with ordinary poultry food will generally bring sick fowls to their normal condition. FOWLS, To Fatten.—Fowls may be fattened in a very short period by giving them small and frequent feedings of ground rice sweetened with foots-sugar, and mixed to a thick paste with boiling milk. Another good method is to separate them from the other chickens, and feed them on oatmeal, boiled potatoes, milk, and bread, mixed with a littl< dripping. They must not be given too much at once, nor more than tw> meals of the mixture in a day. FOWLS, To Truss for Boiling.—After plucking the feathers, cut the neck off close to the body ; remove the crop, entrails, and liver ; cut away the vent, draw it, and beat the breast-bone flat; cut off the nails, and double the feet close to the legs, raise the skin of the legs and cut a hole in the upper part, into which insert the legs ; then put a skewer in the first joint of the wing, and pass it through both the middle of the leg and the body. Turn the fowl over and do the same on that side. Then clean the gizzard, and put it and the liver in the wing ; turn the points on the back, and tie the tops of the legs into position with thin string. FOWLS, To Truss for Roasting.—Pluck, cut off the neck, and draw the inside ; put a skewer in the first joint of the wing, pull the middle of the leg close to it, run the skewer through both the leg and the body ; then put a skewer through the small of the leg, and through the sidesman, and one through the skin of the feet. FOXGLOVE.—There are several varieties of this effective flower, which are generally regarded as biennials, but whose existence can often be prolonged by dividing the off-sets of the stool. To raise it from seed, sow as soon as ripe, and, when large enough, prick out the plants where they are to remain to flower. FRECKLES, To Disperse.—Lemon juice, two ounces ; powdered borax, half a dram ; sugar, one dram. Mix, and let stand for four or five days in a glass bottle, then apply the liquor occasionally to the affected part of the skin. FRECKLES, To Remove.—Dissolve one dram of sal ammoniac in a pint of spring water, and add one ounce of eau de Cologne. Apply night and morning. The following simple remedy is also advisedMix equal parts of pure glycerine and rose-water. Apply every night, allowing it to .dry on the skin. See also Pearls (Tincture of). FREEZING MIXTURES. — Glauber’s salt, six parts; sal ammoniac, four parts ; nitrate of potash, two parts ; and dilute nitric acid, four parts. This will cause the thermometer to sink from fifty degrees to ten degrees. Nitrate of potash, five parts ; sal ammoniac, five parts ; Glauber’s salt, eight parts; water, sixteen parts. The thermometer sinks from fifty degrees to four degrees. Well mix one part by weight of muriate of ammonia with two parts by weight of nitrate of potash. Place the powder in large glass-stoppered bottles, and keep it in the cool. Now crush to a fine powder as much Scotch soda as will equal in weight the above combination, and keep it separately in a closely-covered jar, so that all air is excluded therefrom. When required for use, stir, say, a pint of each of the powders together, place them immediately in the ice-pail, and add thereto a pint of cold water, or just sufficient to dissolve the powders. Should there be any69 difficulty in obtaining the muriate of ammonia from the chemist’s, it may generally be procured from artificial manure merchants. FRENCH POLISH, A Foundation for.—Common work is simply sized before the polish is applied ; but for best work proceed in this way First give it a coating of plaster of Paris and whiting, mixed, so as to fill the pores of the wood, and then one of tallow mixed with dragon's-blood, or other pigment, according to the colour desired. Or the whiting, tallow, and colours may be mixed together and well rubbed into the work. When dry give a coating of polish, allow it to dry, and clean it down with No. o glass-paper. You will then have a good foundation upon which to put the last coats of polish. FRENCH POLISH, To Make Superior.—Add an ounce of gum- shellac and half an ounce of gum-sandarach to a pint of spirits of wine. Place the mixture in a stone bottle near the fire, shaking it frequently. As soon as the gums are dissolved it is fit for use. Or, dissolve five ounces and a half of pale shellac in a pint of naphtha. The above may be coloured in order to modify the character of the wood. ^ A red tinge is given by the use of dragon’s-blood, alkanet root, or red sanders wood ; a yellow tinge by turmeric root, or gum-gamboge. When it is simply desired to darken the wood, brown shellac is employed to make the polish. FRENCH ROLLS.—Heat a pint of milk almost to boiling point; stir in a cupful of yeast and three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and with the flour make a light sponge. Cover it over, and stand in a warm room for two hours; then knead into it two ounces of butter; let it rise again as high as it will, add a quarter of a pint of warm water and a little salt ; mix the whole well together, cut it into strips or round cakes, butter half the top and fold it over. If made the night before, they should be kneaded in the morning, and set to rise again an hour before required. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a sharp oven. FRIARS’ BALSAM.—To a quarter of a pound of gum-benzoin, add three ounces of strained storax, an ounce and a half of balsam of tolu, three- quarters of an ounce of aloes, and a quart of rectified spirit. Let it stand for a fortnight, and shake well before using. Dose, half a teaspoonful on loaf sugar. It is used for colds, asthma, and consumption. It is also a good remedy, when applied externally, for cuts and wounds. FRICASSEE OF FOWL.—Cut off the wings and legs of a fowl and divide the back and breast into two pieces each, wash well, put them into a stew-pan, cover with water, add a bunch of parsley, three or four cloves, a blade of mace, a little pepper, and a teaspoonful of salt ; boil for twenty minutes, pass the stock through a sieve into a basin, remove the flesh and trim it ; then put into the stew-pan two ounces of butter, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with the stock, put back the pieces of fowl, let the contents of the pot come to a boil, removing the scum occasionally ; add two dozen button onions, and simmer until they are tender, then add half a pint of milk, with which has been mixed the yolks of two eggs, stir it quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil ; place'the fowl upon&a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. FRITTERS.—Make a good batter of eggs, milk, and flour, the same as is done for pancakes, and drop a little into a frying-pan ; have ready some apples, pared, cored, and sliced, or some sliced lemon, lay them in the batter and fry them a nice light brown ; glaze them with a hot shovel or salamander, and send to table on a folded napkin in a dish. Fritters may also be made with currants or any sweetmeat or rine fruit FROST-BITES, To Cure.—Immerse the part in snow or cold water, then apply brisk friction and a little camphorated spirits. To ease70 the pain apply an elm bark poultice, or one made of wheat bran, soft soap, and table salt. Afterwards apply a little healing salve. Keep in a cool atmosphere ; on no account go near to a fire. FRUIT BREAD.—Take a pound of flour and mix in a dessert- spoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Rub into this a quarter of a pound of beef dripping, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of currants, one ounce of finely-minced lemon peel, and the half of a grated nutmeg. Mix into a light dough, with new milk, pour into a buttered tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven for one hour. FRUIT PIE (PLAIN).—Mix together half a pound of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, half an ounce of white sugar, and a little salt ; rub in three ounces of dripping, and make into a paste with water. Roll out the paste a little larger than the top of the pie-dish. Cut some strips off the paste, and after moistening the edges of the dish, put the strips round. Put half a pound of fruit into the dish, cover it with two ounces of moist sugar, put another half pound of fruit in, and pour in half a gill of water. Wet the paste round the edges, put on the top crust, press the edges together, and bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. When half done sprinkle it with water and white sugar. FRUIT PUDDING.—Chop up a quarter of a pound of beef suet, mix it with half a pound of flour, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a little salt; make it into a light, firm paste with water, and put it on a floured board. Cut off one-third, roll out the large piece, and line a greased pint pudding basin. Put in half a pound of any fruit in season, two ounces of moist sugar, and a little water, then another half pound of the fruit. Roll out the remainder of the paste, put it on the top ; damp it and draw the lining over it ; tie in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan filled with boiling water. Boil for two hours. FRUIT SALT, To Prepare.—Take two ounces of bicarbonate of soda, two ounces of tartaric acid, two ounces of cream of tartar, two ounces of magnesia citrate, one ounce of Epsom salts, and half a pound of loaf sugar dust. Dry thoroughly in the oven, mix, and put into stoppered bottles. Keep in the dry. Dose: A teaspoonful in a tumbler of water. FRUIT STAINS FROM THE HANDS, To Remove.—Fruit stains may most readily be removed from the hands by washing in water in which some pearl-ash has been dissolved. FRUIT STAINS FROM LINEN, To Remove.—See Linen, To Remove Fruit Stains from. FRUIT, To Preserve.—All kinds of fruits can be preserved for a year, or more, with the use of little or no sugar, and at the same time retain nearly all their natural flavour. The process is not more difficult, and is less costly, than the stewing process, while the fruit is far more delicious and healthful. The whole operation depends upon simply heating the fruit through, and then keeping it entirely free from the access of air. FRUIT, To Preserve for Winter Use.—Pick the fruit on a very fine day, remove all the blemished ones, and, if necessary, trim the stalks from those intended to be preserved. Have some perfectly clean wide- mouthed bottles ; turn each of these, the instant before filling, neck downwards, and burn a few splints of wood inside ; drop in the fruit before the vapour escapes, shake gently down, press into the neck a new cork, and dip the neck of the bottle into melted rosin. Set the bottles of fruit at night in an oven just warm, and allow them to remain till the morning. The oven must not be too hot, or the bottles will burst. Any kind of fruit will keep good twelve months when bottled in this way if the manipulation is quickly carried out.V FRUIT TREES, To Eradicate Gum from.—First scrape off all the gum, and afterwards wash the branches with a compost of clay, iiorse- dung, and tar. , , , FRUIT TREES, To Get Rid of Moss on.—Wash the branches with strong brine or a strong solution of lime. FRUIT TREES. To Protect them from Birds.—In the autumn, directly the leaves have fallen, dust the bushes with a mixture of quick- lime and soot, and repeat the operation two or three times during the winter. It wilt be found that birds will not touch the buds which form afterwards. Pans of water should be set about the garden, especially in summer, for if the birds cannot obtain their natural beverage, they will slake their thirst with the juice of the fruit. FRUIT TREES, Transplanting.—From experiments lately made it would appear that fruit trees may be transplanted at any season of the year, provided that the proper time of the day be selected for the opera- tion. The experimenter transplanted ten cherry trees, while in blossom, commencing at four o'clock in the afternoon, and transplanted one each hour, until one o’clock in the morning. Those transplanted in the day- light shed their blossoms, producing little or no fruit, while those planted during the darker portions of the day maintained their position fully. He did the same with ten dwarf pear trees, after the fruit was one-third grown. Those transplanted during the day shed their fruit ; those moved during the night perfected their crop and showed no injury from having been shifted. With each of the trees the earth around the roots was disturbed as little as possible. FUCHSIAS, The Treatment of.—Cuttings from these plants will strike readily under a hand-light. When sufficiently strong, transplant them to any light, rich soil, and supply them very liberally with water or very weak liquid manure. FUEL (CHEAP).—Mix together like common mortar one bushel of small coal, one bushel of sawdust, a bushel and a half of clay, and two bushels of sand. Make them into bricks or balls, and set them by to dry ; they are then ready for use. A fire cannot be lighted with them, but when the fire is well alight put a few pieces of coal in front and the brick of fuel at the back. They will keep up a stronger fire than ordinary coal. FUNGI, To Preserve.—Mr. W. Withering, the celebrated botanist, gives the following as the best method of preserving specimens of fungi : —Take two ounces of sulphate of copper, or blue vitriol, and reduce it to powder ; pour upon it a pint of boiling water, and when cold, add half a pint of spirits of wine ; cork it well, and call it the “pickle.” To eight pints of water add one pint and a half of spirits of wine, and call it the “ liquor.” Be provided with a number of wide-mouthed bottles of different sizes, all well fitted with corks. The fungi should be left on the table as long as possible, to allow the moisture to evaporate ; they should then be placed in the pickle for three hours, or longer if necessary ; then place them in the bottles intended for their reception, and fill with the liquor. They should then be well corked and sealed, and arranged in order, with their names in front of the bottle. FURNITURE OIL, for Staining and Polishing Mahogany.— Boil together for ten minutes one gallon of linseed oil, three ounces of alkanet root, and one ounce of rose-pink. Strain until quite clear. Rub the mixture over the articles, let it remain on for an hour, then polish with a linen cloth. FURNITURE OIL FOR STAINS.—Stains left behind on tables, sideboards, &c., by wet glasses or hot dishes may be removed as72 follows :—Mix together four ounces of shellac varnish, one ounce of alkanet root, two ounces of spirits of turpentine, two ounces of beeswax, and a pint of linseed oil. Allow the mixture to stand for a week, then apply it to the furniture with a piece of flannel, and polish briskly with a soft cloth. If the stains are not removed by the first application, the process should be repeated until the desired effect is obtained. FURNITURE PASTE FOR LIGHT WOOD.—Scrape half a pound of beeswax into a pint of turpentine ; let it stand till dissolved, when it will be ready for use. Or, dissolve six ounces of pearl-ash in a quart of boiling water, add a quarter of a pound of white wax, and simmer for half an hour. Let it cool; remove the wax from the surface, work it into a soft paste in a mortar with a little hot water, and apply to the furniture. FURNITURE PASTE FOR MAHOGANY.—Scrape two ounces of beeswax into a basin, add as much spirits of turpentine as will moisten it, together with the eighth part of an ounce of rosin ; dissolve it to the consistence of paste, then pour in as much Indian red as will bring it to a deep mahogany colour ; stir it up, and it will be fit for use. FURNITURE POLISH. — Shave very fine three ounces of white wax and add to it a gill of turpentine ; let it stand for twenty-four hours, then cut into shavings half an ounce of hard soap and boil it in a gill of water, and add thereto the wax and turpentine. If the furniture is very dirty let it be cleaned with a little paraffin before applying the polish, as this will materially lighten the labour. Or, take of linseed oil, one gill and a half; turpentine, one gill ; ground loaf sugar, one teaspoonful. Shake well together, rub it on the furniture with a piece of flannel, and polish with a soft cloth. FURNITURE, To Remove White Spots from.—White spots may readily be removed from varnished furniture by holding a hot iron or shovel over the blemish. FURRED IRON KETTLE, To Cleanse a.—Fill the kettle with water, add a large spoonful of sal ammoniac, and let it boil for a few moments ; then empty it, and stand it over the fire to get red hot. The fur will then peel off. After this fill it with soda and water, and when it has boiled a short time rinse well with clear water. FURS, To Clean.—Sable, squirrel, chinchilla, fitch, See., may be cleaned in the following manner :—Warm some new bran in a pan, taking care that it does not burn, which can be prevented by active stirring. When rather hot, rub it thoroughly into the fur ; repeat this operation two or three times, then shake and brush it carefully. White furs, such as ermine, may be cleaned by laying them on a table and rubbing them well with bran moistened with warm water ; rub them dry, and afterwards with dry bran, and finally with magnesia. The wet bran should be applied with a flannel and the dry with book muslin. FURS, To Protect from Moth.—To one pint of warm water add ten grains of corrosive sublimate ; sponge it well into the furs, and when dry wrap them in blue paper. Or, take the furs out of the chests frequently, beat them well, expose them to the air, and scent the box where they are kept either with spirits of turpentine, camphor, cedar wood, or Russia leather. FURZE, The Cultivation of.—The double variety of this plant well merits admission on to a lawn, or in pots it forms a pleasing ornament to the hall or gravelled walks. It requires a well-drained, sandy soil, and flourishes best near the sea. Although hardy, it is advisable to give it protection during very severe weather. Small cuttings may be struck under bell-glasses, but their growth is slow.73 GALLING IN PERSONS CONFINED TO BED, To Prevent.—Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, and, while doing so, add gradually two spoonfuls of spirits of wine. Apply occasionally with a feather. The bottle must be kept well corked. GALVANIC BATTERY, A Cheap. — A powerful galvanic battery may be made for a trifling expense in the following manner:— Procure the bowls of six tobacco pipes, break off all the stems, and stop up the small hole with sealing-wax. Place on the table six small glass tumblers one inch high, and place in each a cylinder of amalga- mated zinc. On every cylinder put a pipe-bowl, in each of which insert a slip of thin platinum foil, one and a quarter inches long and half an inch wide, connected at the zinc cylinder by platinum wire. Fill the pipe-bowls with nitric acid and the tumblers with dilute sulphuric acid, and a strong current of electricity will be set free, capable of igniting wire, &c. GAME, Farcing for.—Scrape the raw liver and some suet very fine, and chop up a little parsley and a small piece of shalot; add a small quantity of thyme, knotted marjoram, basil, a few bread crumbs, pepper, and salt, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a few grains of nutmeg ; pound the whole nicely, and mix with a couple of eggs, well beaten. GAME PIE.—Divide the game into joints or pieces and put it into a pie-dish with some fat ham or streaky bacon, season rather highly, cover with puff-paste, and put into the oven to bake. When rather more than half done raise the crust and pour in four or five tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a glass of light wine, and the juice of a lemon. GAME (POTTED).—Remove all skin and bones, and pound the meat in a mortar ; flavour with mixed spice, cayenne, black pepper, salt, and a few grains of sugar. Rub the whole through a wire sieve with an equal quantity of butter; mix well together, press into pots, and cover with clarified butter. GAME (STEWED).—Divide the partridge, pheasant, &c., into nice-sized pieces, and put it into a stew-pan with slices of veal and ham, a couple of onions, carrots, and a little celery ; add a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes ; then add some good broth, and stew the whole gently for half an hour. GAME, To Preserve.—Game may be kept sweet for a considerable time by placing inside it muslin bags filled with powdered charcoal, renew- ing the bags from day to day. GARGLES FOR INFLAMED THROAT.—Take one dram of sulphuric ether and add to it half an ounce of syrup of marsh-mallows and a teacupful of barley water. Gargle the throat frequently with the mixture until the inflammation dies away. Or, mix together two drams of purified nitre, seven drams of acetate of honey, and eight ounces of barley-water. Use frequently. GARLIC FLOWERS.—Several species of this plant are grown as border flowers, but their offensive odour makes them unfit for the flower garden. The kind known as "Allium Moley,” however, are very effective in large bouquets, which are only intended to be looked at and not handled They delight in a warm, dry, light soil, and increase rapidly by bulbs' which should be separated every second or third year. ’ GARLIC ROOTS, To Grow.—Part the cloves of the root in spring, and plant them in rows six to nine inches asunder, and two deep and'housed^’" perfection in July or AuSust, when they may be taken up 1174 GAS GLOBES (SMOKY), To Clean.—Soak them well in hot soda and water, then put them into a pan of lukewarm water to which has been added a teaspoonful of ammonia ; scrub them with a hard brush till the stains disappear ; rinse in clear water and let them drain dry. By this means they will look equal to new. GAS METER, How to Read.—It will be noticed by looking at the index of the meter that it has three dials, that to the left hand repre- senting the hundreds, the centre the tens, and the right-hand one the units. As will readily be seen by the figures upon the dials, the hands indicating the hundreds and the units revolve from right to left, while the centre one rotates from left to right. In reading off the dial set down the figures next behind the pointers, commencing at the left hand, and add on two cyphers, at the end. By deducting from this product the total number of feet of gas previously registered on the card, the precise amount of gas used will be shown. Thus, for instance, supposing the hand of the hundreds points between i and 2, set down a figure 1 ; the centre hand to be between 6 and 7, add a 6 after the figure 1 already set down ; and the hand of the units to be between 7 and 8, put down the 7 and add the two cyphers. The figures will be 16,700 Deduct total amount registered last quarter (say) 12,200 Total number of feet consumed 4,500 4,500 feet at (say) 3s. 4d. per thousand = 15s. GENTIAN (TINCTURE OF).—Sliced gentian, two ounces and a half; dried orange peel, ten drams ; bruised cardamoms, five drams ; proof spirits, one quart. Macerate for a fortnight, then strain. Dose: One teaspoonful three times a day. Used to prevent acidification of the food, to strengthen the stomach, and to promote digestion. GENTIAN, To Cultivate.—The gentian is specially deserving of cultivation on account of its brilliant blue flowers, a colour so difficult to obtain in due proportion in most gardens. The dwarf kind is generally used as an edging, but shows to greater advantage when grown in a com- pact mass. This, as well as the major, is propagated by off-sets, and also by seeds sown on the surface of heath mould and left uncovered. There is another species, which bears a yellow flower, the roots of which are used in medicine. This is multiplied from seeds sown in sandy loam. The gentian delights in a half-shady situation, neither wet nor dry, and should be protected during severe frosts. GERANIUMS, To Propagate.—Take slips from the old plants in dry weather during July or August, put them into a sandy soil, water freely at once, and leave unshaded for some weeks. If the ends of the slips are touched with a paint-brush dipped in collodion, it will hasten the callus which cuttings must form before they can throw out roots. GERMAN PASTE FOR BIRDS.—Blanch and chop a quarter of a pound of almonds, add a pound of pea meal and the same quantity of crushed biscuits, the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs, and two ounces of essence of lemon. Mix, and press through a sieve. Another paste is made by soaking a little well-baked stale bread in water ; when it is perfectly soft squeeze out the water, add two-thirds the quantity of wheat meal, and enough boiling milk to reduce it to the con- sistence of paste. As this food soon becomes sour, and consequently injurious to the birds, it is necessary to make fresh every day. GERMAN SILVER, To Clean.—Proceed in the same manner as directed for Plate (which see).75 GERANIUMS FROM CUTTINGS, To Propagate.—Taka some nice young shoots at the end of July and plant them in a light, sandy soil, place them under a south wall in the full sunshine, water them freely as soon as planted, and leave them unshaded for some weeks. Unless the weather is very dry they may remain without further care till taken in when cold weather sets in. GHERKINS (PICKLED).—Prepare a pickle of best vinegar, half a gallon ; salt, three ounces ; allspice and mustard, of each half an ounce ; mace and cloves, of each a quarter of an ounce ; some sliced horse-radish, and a little sliced nutmeg. Boil together for a quarter of an hour, skim well, and when cold pour it over the gherkins. Let them stand covered for twenty-four hours, then put them into a saucepan and let them simmer till they become green. When cold tie the jars down with bladder. GIBLET PIE.—Clean the giblets and boil them a short time in a small quantity of water with some pieces of beef or veal, an onion, and a few sweet herbs. Let it get cold, then cut the heart, liver, and gizzard in slices, put the whole of the meat into a pie-dish, season with pepper and salt, add the liquor in which the giblets were boiled, put on the crust, and bake. When done, raise the crust and stir in a cupful of cream. GIBLET SOUP.—Scald two sets of goose giblets, cut them in pieces and put them into a saucepan with a pound of gravy beef, a couple of onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of whole white pepper, and the same quantity of salt ; cover with water, and stew until the gizzards are tender, then strain. Pour the soup back into the saucepan, thicken with butter and flour, boil it ten minutes longer, skim, add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a little lemon juice, and cayenne pepper ; return the giblets to the soup, and serve very hot. This soup may likewise be made with duck giblets. GILT FRAMES, To Preserve.—Gilt frames, chandeliers, and burnished brass-work may be preserved from tarnishing and damage by flies by a slight coating of naphtha or coal oil. A coating of clear parchment size will prevent dirt darkening them, as they may then be sponged with cold water, or, if very much soiled, with oil of turpentine. They should not afterwards be wiped, but left to drain dry. GILT FRAMES, To Prevent Flies Spoiling.—Pour boiling water on to a quantity of onions, let them stand for about a week, so that their strength may be extracted, then wash the gilt-work with the liquor. It should be done at least twice during the spring and summer. GILT ORNAMENTS, To Clean.—Make a strong solution of cyanide of potassium ; apply with a stiff brush, and well wash it off after- wards with water, using a softer brush ; dry with a cloth or in boxwood sawdust. GINGER BEER POWDERS.—Carbonate of soda, thirty grains ; powdered ginger, five grains ; refined sugar, one dram ; essence of lemon, two drops. Dissolve in half a tumbler of cold water, to which add thirty grains of tartaric acid. Drink while effervescing. GINGER BEER, To Make Superior.—Dr. Pereira, in his treatise on diet, gives the following directions for making one hundred bottles of good beer at a cost of about two shillings White sugar, five pounds • lemon juice, quarter of a pint; honey, quarter of a pound ; bruised ginger’ five ounces; water, four and a half gallons. Boil the ginger in three quarts of the water for half an hour, then add the sugar, lemon juice, and honev, with remainder of the water. Boil again, strain through a cloth, and when cold add the fourth part of the white of an egg and a teaspoonful of essence of76 lemon. Let it stand for four days, then bottle. The honey gives to the beer a peculiar softness, and as it is not fermented with yeast it is less violent in its action when opened. It will keep good for many months. GINGER BEER, To Prepare Ordinary.—Put two gallons of cold water into a saucepan, add to it two ounces of bruised ginger and two pounds of sugar ; boil the whole for an hour, then skim the liquor and pour it into a jar along with a sliced lemon and half an ounce of cream of tartar. When nearly cold add a teacupful of yeast and let it work for two days ; strain, bottle for use, and tie the corks down firmly. It will be ready for use in a few days. GINGERBREAD, To Make.—Put five pounds of flourinto a pan, make a pit in the centre and pour in a pound and a half of treacle, an ounce and a half of ground ginger, half an ounce of carraway seeds, a quarter of a pound of orange peel, an ounce and a half of carbonate of soda, two ounces of allspice, six ounces of blanched almonds, one pound of honey, and half a pound of butter worked to a cream. Mix the whole into a dough, stirring it thoroughly, and adding three-quarters of an ounce of tartaric acid. Let it stand an hour, then put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a cool oven for two hours, or till a fork dipped into the cake comes out without the dough adhering to it. GINGER (PRESERVED).—Scald the young roots, and when tender peel them and throw them into cold water, changing the water fre- quently. Afterwards immerse them in a thin syrup for a few days, then put them into jars and pour over them a rich syrup. GINGER, Tincture of.—Digest for a week in a gentle heat one ounce of ginger and a pint of proof spirits, then strain. Dose : From ten minims to one dram. Used to expel wind and to prevent the griping of medicines. GLADIOLUS, General Treatment of.—The whole species of gladioli are more or less tender and are safest under pot culture. If planted in the open ground they must occupy a well drained position, be well protected from cold, and, during the winter, covered with six inches of dry leaves or sawdust. Propagate by division of the cones every four years. GLANDS, For Displaced.—Mix with one ounce of spirits of harts- horn, two ounces of olive oil. Pour a little of the mixture into the palm of the hand and rub the throat gently upwards towards the ear. A piece of flannel may also be saturated with the liniment and tied round the neck GLANDULAR ENLARGEMENTS, To Lessen.—Dissolve by a gentle heat two drams of scraped white soap and half a dram of extract of henbane in six ounces of olive oil. Rub the part well twice a day with about half an ounce of the mixture. GLASS, Etching on.—Draw the required figures or designs with varnish upon the glass, and apply thereto a coating of aquafortis. The glass will become corroded and softened wherever the fluid touches it and may readily be cut away around the drawing. Remove the varnish and the figures will appear raised upon a dark ground. Or, lay on the glass a ground of beeswax, draw thereon the design with a needle, as in etching upon metals, then pour on a little sulphuric acid and sprinkle it with fluor-spar ; after four or five hours, take it off and clean the work with oil of turpentine. GLASS, Gilding on.—Dissolve in boiled linseed oil an equal weight of either amber or copal, then add as much oil of turpentine as will form a very thin size ; apply to the parts of the glass intended to be gilt. Make the glass hot in an oven, so that it will almost burn the hand when touched,77 and apply leaf gold in the ordinary way ; sweep off the superfluous portions of the leaf, and when quite cold proceed to burnish, interposing a piece of India paper between the gold and the burnisher. See also Gold Paint for Glass-work. GLASS (GROUND), To Imitate.—A very effective and durable composition for deadening windows may be made by mixing mastic varnish with a little white-lead. Apply to the inside of the panes with an old paint brush, using only a small quantity of the varnish at the time. Or, dissolve Epsom salts in beer, and apply with a brush. As it dries it crystallizes and produces a fine imitation of ground glass. Another method of giving to glass the appearance of being ground is to work together until quite soft equal parts of white-lead and common putty, shape it into a ball, and roll it over the surface of the glass. GLASS, Invisible Writing on.—Lay the glass upon a perfectly flat surface, breathe upon it, and while the breath remains upon the glass, write or draw the desired characters with French chalk, pressing rather heavily with the hand. Should the breath evaporate before the design is finished breathe on it again, and so on till the work is finished ; then wipe the glass with a damp cloth, dry it, and the writing will disappear. Breathe on it, and it will return. GLASS (SOLUBLE).—Melt together fifteen parts of powdered quartz, or broken glass, ten of potash, and one of charcoal; work it in cold water, then boil with five parts water till entirely dissolved. Apply to the work and let it cool. It will dry into a transparent colourless glass on any surface to which it is applied, and will render wood nearly incombus- tible. I GLASS STOPPERS, To Loosen.—Hold the neck of the bottle fin hot water for a few moments, which will cause the glass to expand, when 'the stopper may easily be removed. A little oil dropped around the mouth of the bottle close to the stopper, and the bottle stood in a warm place, will often prove effectual. GLASS, To Cut to any Shape, or to Drill.—File a notch on the edge of the glass, then make a thin rod of iron red hot, apply it to the notch and draw it slowly along the surface of the glass in the direction desired ; a crack will follow, and the division can easily be effected with the thumb and finger. Another method of cutting or drilling glass with ease is to keep the edge of the tool constantly wet with spirits of turpentine. GLASS, To Toughen.—Tumblers, wine, and other glasses may be rendered so tough as to be practicably unbreakable by placing them in a vessel of cold water and gradually bringing it to a hard boiling point, care being taxen to place a cloth between them so that they are not injured during ebullition. Or they may be placed in a very hot oven and allowed gradually to grow cold. GLASS, To Unite Neatly.—Put a little isinglass in spirits of wine, and when dissolved add a small quantity of water ; melt the mixture over a slow fire, and apply to the broken pieces. The join will be almost imper- ceptible. v See also Cement for Glass. GLAZING FOR HAMS AND TONGUES, Ac.—Boil a shin of beef for twelve hours in two gallons of water. In like manner draw the gravy from a knuckle of veal, adding salt, pepper, and a few cloves. Pour the whole with the shin of beef, and boil it down to one quart. When wanted, warm a portion and spread it with a feather over the ham. Will keep good for a year.7« GLOVE POWDER.—A good glove powder for ordinary use may be made by pounding dried Castile soap in a mortar with pipeclay, ochre, or Irish slate. GLOVES (BUCKSKIN, CHAMOIS - LEATHER, OR DOESKIN), To Clean.—Rub them with a dry powder composed ot fullers' earth and alum ; clear the dust off with a brush, and afterwards powder them with whiting and bran. If the gloves are very dirty wash them in a solution of soap, and afterwards apply a paste made of pipeclay, coloured the required tint with yellow ochre and diluted beer. When dry, dust off the superfluous powder. GLOVES (KID), French Method of Cleaning.—Button the gloves upon the hands, then wash them in spirits of turpentine or benzine until clean. Dry them in a warm place where there is a current of air so as to remove the unpleasant smell of the spirits. GLOVES (KID), To Wash.—Lay the glove on a clean cloth folded into several thicknesses. Now dip a piece of flannel in milk, and after- wards rub on to it a good quantity of brown soap, and rub the glove down- wards towards the fingers. When clean hang them to dry. GLOVES (KID), To Dye.—Put half an ounce of extract of log- wood into a two ounce bottle and fill up with brandy. The colour may be varied from a delicate lilac to nearly black by using less or more logwood. Put the gloves on the hands, sponge them over evenly with the mixture, and rub one over the other until dry. GLOVES (KID), To Preserve.—Put the gloves into a tin box with a lump of ammonia, but do not allow the latter to touch the gloves. This will keep the kid soft, and will often cause spots to disappear from those of violet or grey hue. GLOVES, To Perfume.—Mix two drops of extract of ambergris with half an ounce of spirits of wine. Dip a soft cloih in the mixture and rub it upon the insides of the gloves. GLUE (LIQUID).—Dissolve one ounce of borax in a pint of boiling water, then add two ounces of shellac and boil in a covered vessel until the shellac is dissolved. This forms a cheap and useful cement. Another way of making a liquid glue which does not gelatinise nor undergo fermentation is to dissolve in a wide-mouthed bottle half a pound of best glue in half a pint of water, and then add half an ounce of strong nitric acid. This latter ingredient must be added slowly, and the whole constantly stirred until well mixed. Keep well corked. GLUE (MARINE).—Dissolve three parts of indiarubber in thirty- four parts of coal-tar naphtha, aiding the solution with agitation and heat; add to it sixty-four parts of powdered shellac, and heat it in the mixture till the whole is dissolved. Pour it, while hot, upon metal plates, making each sheet about one-eighth of an inch thick. When required for use heat it in a pot till soft and apply with a brush. Wood joined with this glue can scarcely be separated. GLUE (MOUTH).—Dissolve some fine glue or gelatine in water, add half its weight of brown sugar ; boil till it is sufficiently thick to become solid on cooling, pour it on to a slightly-greased slab, and when cold cut it into convenient sized pieces. GLUE (PARCHMENT).—Dissolve an ounce of borax in a gallon of water ; add a little gum-arabic and a pound of parchment cuttings ; simmer to the required thickness, then strain the liquid for use. GLUE, To Strengthen.—Glue may be greatly strengthened by mix- ing with it a little powdered chalk. GLUE, To Test.—The quality of glue cannot be estimated either by its colour or by the price paid for it. The simplest test is to apply the79 tongue to it. If it tastes salt or acid, or if it emits an unpleasant smell, it should be rejected. Another good test is to weigh a piece, then soak it in water for a day and a night ; let it dry, and weigh again. The nearer it approaches its original weight the better is its quality. GLUE (WATERPROOF).—Dissolve in water twelve parts glue, add three parts yellow rosin, and when the latter is melted stir in four parts turpentine. Mix well, but very carefully, as it is highly inflammable. It is safest to do it in a water-bath. GLUE which will Resist the Action of Water.—Boil one pound of glue in two quarts of skimmed milk and use in the ordinary manner. GLYCERINE AND LIME JUICE.—Dissolve bya gentle heat half an ounce of white wax with eight ounces of oil of sweet almonds, and add gradually one ounce of glycerine, thirty-two grains of citric acid, one ounce of lime water, half an ounce of rectified spirits of wine, two ounces of water, two drams of essence of lemon, and five drops of essential oil of almonds. Or, take of white wax and spermaceti of each two ounces ; oil of sweet almonds, eight ounces ; lime juice, six ounces ; glycerate of borax, two ounces ; essence of lemon, half an ounce ; and essence of bergamot, two drams. Melt the wax and spermaceti, warm the lemon juice and glycerine, add the oil and perfume, and shake till cold. GNAT STINGS.—Wherever gnats abound the following com- pound should always be kept at hand, as it is useful, not only as a cure, but also as the best preventive against the attack of these insects. Take two ounces of spermaceti, half an ounce of white wax, one ounce of cam- phor, and two ounces of olive oil. Melt the whole together, stirring fre- quently the while. Pour into small pots for use. GOBLET PIE.—Stone and chop two ounces of raisins, wash and dry two ounces of currants, chop up two ounces of lean meat with the same weight of beef suet, and peel, core, and thinly slice two ounces of apples. Mix the ingredients together, and place them in a small pie-dish with two ounces of moist sugar. Put into a basin a quarter of a pound of flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt; stir well together ; rub in an ounce and a half of butter, and mix to a stiff" paste with half a gill of water ; roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Grease the edges of the dish, line them with thin strips of paste, wet the edges, put on the crust, make a hole in the centre, and bake for half an hour. GOLD AND SILVER LACE, To Clean.—Sew the lace in a clean linen cloth, boil it in soft water to which soap has been added in the proportion of one pound to each gallon of water, and afterwards wash it in cold water. If tarnished, apply a little warm spirits of wine to the soiled parts, and polish with a chamois leather. GOLDEN ROD.—This plant, which flowers in the autumn, is not very ornamental, but may be found useful for concealing sheds and other unsightly objects from view. It will grow in any soil, and is propagated by division of the root. GOLD LEAF WORK.—Procure a book of gold leaf; get as many sheets of tissue as the book contains, and go over them with white wax ; lay them upon the gold leaf so that it adheres to them ; then go over the work with twenty-four hours size applied very evenly, and twenty- four hours afterwards apply the gold ; rub it firmly, and clean off with cotton wool. GOLD (LIQUID).—Grind thoroughly together upon a slab equal parts of honey and gold-leaf ; agitate with thirty times its weight of hot water ; when settled pour off the water, add fresh, and repeat the agitation. Dry the gold, and mix it with gum water.8o GOLD PAINT FOR GLASS-WORK—Mix in a crucible half an ounce of silver and a quarter of an ounce of antimony ; pound the mass to a powder, and grind it on a copper plate with water, adding half a pound of yellow ochre. GOLD SIZE.—Mix some very finely-powdered yellow ochre with isinglass or parchment till it is of a yellow colour. Burnish with an agate burnisher. Or, thicken boiled or drying oil with yellow ochre, or calcined red ochre, then grind it to the utmost smoothness. If too thick it may be thinned with oil of turpentine. GOLD SIZE (JAPANNERS’).—Melt one pound of gum-am- moniac, then add eight ounces of boiled or drying oil, and twelve ounces of spirits of turpentine. GOLD, The Value of.—Gold is divided in twenty-four parts, or carats, to the ounce Troy, and the ounce of pure, unalloyed gold being worth £4 5s., it follows that gold of— 22 carats 1 fine to the ounce Troy, is worth 18 ,1 ,, ,1 16 ,, ,, ,, ,. IS >> a a 11 X 2 11 a 1 11 I, IO 11 || || || 9 11 •> a n 1 Standard or sterling gold. GOLD, To Dissolve.—To two parts of nitric acid add one of muriatic acid. This combination forms what is known commercially as aqua-regia, and is of great use to gilders and gold-refiners. GOOSEBERRIES (BOTTLED).—Gather the gooseberries before they have attained their full growth, remove the tops and stalks, and put the fruit into wide-necked bottles, which must be perfectly dry. Cork loosely, set them in a saucepan of cold water, and bring it very gently to the boil. Then draw back the saucepan and let the gooseberries simmer until they assume a shrunken appearance. Take the contents of one of the bottles to fill up the rest, and pour enough boiling water into each bottle to cover the fruit. Cork the bottle close, tie a bladder over the top, and keep in a cool, dry place. When required for tarts or puddings, pour away the water and add as much sugar as would be necessary for fresh fruit, which they closely resemble, both in flavour and appearance. GOOSEBERRY CATERPILLARS, To Prevent the Ravages of.—Remove the soil round each plant for three or four inches in depth, and about two feet in diameter, and with the soil the chrysalides of the caterpillar will also be taken away. Bury the earth thus removed at least eighteen inches or two feet deep, and put fresh soil round the bushes, which will assist in renovating the plants. If carefully done, this process need not be repeated oftener than every third or fourth year. GOOSEBERRY FOOL.—Cut the tops and tails off green goose- berries, and put them into a jar with two tablespoonfuls of water and a little moist sugar. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil till the fruit is soft enough to mash. When done enough, beat it to a pulp, work the pulp through a colander, and to every pint of pulp add very gradually a pint of milk, or half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk. Serve in a glass dish, or in small glasses. GOOSEBERRY PIE.—Make a nice puff paste, line a dish with it, stand a small inverted cup in the centre, and having picked, washed, and £ s. d. 3 17 11 3 3 9 2 16 8 2 13 ii 226 i IS S 1 11 io|8i dried the fruit, three-parts fill the dish with it and fill up with sugar ; put on the crust, and bake for three-quarters of an hour or more, according to SjZe. GOOSEBERRY PRESERVE.—Take ten pounds of rough, red gooseberries and prick each berry with a needle ; put them in a pre- serving pan with eight pounds of loaf sugar, boil for three-quarters of an hour, skim well from time to time, and when done put into jars and tie down. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (BAKED).—Scald a pint of green gooseberries till they are soft, but not broken ; drain, and rub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; add half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, three Naples biscuits, and six well-beaten eggs ; mix the ingredients together, pour into an earthen dish, and bake for half an hour. This pudding is sometimes covered with a crust, but not generally. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING (BOILED).—Make a plain paste by mixing with water half a pound of finely-chopped suet, one pound of flour, and a little salt. Line a buttered basin with the paste, fill it with gooseberries, add half a pound of sugar, cover with the paste, tie in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. Serve with cream. GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE.—Make a high whip of cream, the whites of two eggs well beaten, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine, and let it stand till the following day. Scald and press through a sieve as many gooseberries as will make a thick layer at the bottom of the dish ; then beat the yolks of two eggs into a pint of milk, sweeten with sugar, and scald it over the fire, stirring all the time till it nearly, but not quite, boils. When cool lay it over the fruit, and cover with the whip previously made. GOOSE (GREEN), To Roast a.—Well pepper and salt the inside, but do not insert any stuffing ; put it before a good brisk fire, and roast it for three-quarters of an hour. Send to table with a rich brown gravy and apple, gooseberry, or sorrel sauce. GOOSE (MOCK).—Parboil a leg of pork, then remove the skin and roast the meat before a good fire, basting it frequently with butter. When nearly done, sprinkle it with a mixture of bread crumbs, dried sage in fine powder, pepper and salt, and a finely-shred onion. Garnish with balls of fried goose stuffing, and serve with good gravy. GOOSE (ROAST).—Boil a couple of onions quickly for ten minutes, then chop them up with a handful of sage, mix with three or four cupfuls of bread crumbs, and season with salt and pepper ; bind the whole with the yolk of an egg, and put it inside the bird ; truss, and secure the neck and rump so that the seasoning does not fall out; skewer a piece of greased white paper over the breast, and hang the goose at a distance from the fire, drawing it nearer by degrees and keeping it constantly basted. When the breast is rising remove the paper so that it may become nicely browned, and serve before the breast falls. Send to table with brown gravy and apple sauce. A goose takes from an hour and a half to an hour and three-quarters to roast. GOOSE SAUCE.—Make hot a cupful of port wine or claret, and add a spoonful of made mustard, a little salt, and cayenne pepper. Pour the sauce into the bird just before sending it to table." This sauce is also used for ducks, poultry, and roast pork. GOOSE-SKIN.—Horripilatio, or goose-skin, arises from cold, and may be prevented by rubbing the body with olive oil and repeating it at intervals of eight or nine days. By adopting this method, in a short time one becomes almost insensible to the feeling of cold. GOOSE, To Carve a—First cut down to the breast-bone, and help out as many slices as can be obtained, taking a little stuffing out of the 128a apron each time. Next remove the legs and wings, cutting the flesh and jerking the joint back, and then separate the neck and side-bones, and finally the back. After the breast, which is generally served to the ladies, the fleshy part of the wing and thigh are the most favourite portions. GOOSE, To Choose a.—When a goose is young the bill is yellow, which turns red as the bird grows old ; when fresh killed the feet are supple, but when stale they become stiff and dry. They should be large and fat, and the white and grey are much to be preferred to those of a dark colour. GOULARD WATER (SUPERIOR).—To one dram of extract of lead add two ounces of distilled vinegar, half an ounce of proof spirit of wine, and one pint of distilled water. GOUT, To Relieve Pain from.—Steep a piece of lint in camphor dissolved in spirits of wine, and if the pain be severe add a few drops of opium ; apply to the part, and cover with an oiled skin. An occasional poultice made of bran and vinegar often gives relief. GRAFTING, Mr. Kent’s Method of.—Prepare the stock and the graft in the same way as for grafting with clay ; then take a long strip of indiarubber three-quarters of an inch broad, and about the thickness of a shilling ; tie one end of this elastic riband with a thread, well prepared by rubbing with shoemakers’ wax, to the stock, a little below where it is cut for being joined to the graft ; then make the joint as neatly as possible and wrap it round with the riband, taking due care to keep the indiarubber fully stretched, and to make it overlap at each turn fully one- half of the breadth of the previous round, till the whole is covered ; tie the top with a thread in the same manner as it is tied at the bottom, and the operation is so far complete. When thoroughly set, remove the riband, which will be ready for future use. By this method there is scarcely any appearance of a join. GRAFTING WAX, An Excellent.—Melt over a slow fire one pound of ro in ; add one ounce of beef tallow, and stir them together with a piece of wire. When somewhat cooled add one tablespoonful of spirits of turpentine, and then stir in gradually five ounces of alcohol (95 per cent, strength). Should the alcohol cause it to go lumpy, warm again until it melts. Keep in a bottle. Lay it on in a very thin coat with a brush. In a warm room the wax should be of the consistence of molasses. Should it prove thicker, thin it down with alcohol. It is always ready for use, is never affected by the weather, and heals up wounds hermetically. GRAFTING WAX (COBBETT’S).—Take of pitch and rosin, four parts ; beeswax, two parts ; tallow, one part ; melt, and mix the in- gredients, and use while just warm. GRAPES, To Preserve.—Gather the grapes before they become fully ripe and put them into a jar, cover them with brandy, add a little sugar candy, and tie them closely with a bladder. Or they may be kept for several months packed in layers of dry bran and made air-tight. GRAVEL, Remedy for.—Acetate of potash, two drams; honey, half an ounce ; spirits of turpentine, half a dram ; carbonate of soda, half a dram ; mint tea, eight ounces. Mix. Dose: Two tablespoonfuls three times a day. Raw onions should be freely eaten. GRAPES.—See Vines, The Treatment of. GRASS, To Dye.—See Moss, To Dye. GRAVEL WALKS, To Destroy Weeds, &c., on.—Moss or weeds of any description may be totally eradicated from gravel walks by sprinkling them with salt during moist or dewy weather ; but it should, of course, not be done during a period of rain, as this would destroy the action of the salt.«3 GRAVY (BROWN), for Meat or Poultry.—Take the brown parts of either boiled or roasted meat, mince them finely, put them into a basin and cover with boiling water ; let stand till next day, then boil for five minutes, strain, and preserve for use. GRAVY (CLARIFIED).—Veal or beef gravy is clarified with whites of eggs. All clarified articles require to be more highly seasoned than others, as the clarifying takes away some of their flavour. GRAVY FOR BROWN SAUCES.—Cut some neck of beef into thin slices, flour them well, and put them into a stew-pan with some fat bacon, an onion, sweet marjoram, pepper, and salt. Put it to brown over a slow fire, then put some water on it, stir well, and boil for thirty minutes ; strain, and when cold remove the fat, and add a little lemon juice. It is then ready for use at any time. GRAYLINGS (FRIED).—Remove the scales and gut, wash, wipe dry, dust with flour, put them down before a good fire, then fry in hot fat. Serve with butter and parsley. GREASE SPOTS FROM WOODWORK, To Remove.— Moisten one ounce of powdered fullers’ earth with a little spirit of turpen- tine ; add one ounce of potassium and half an ounce of salt of tartar. Work it into a paste with a little soft soap, and form it into small squares. In applying, first moisten the grease, then rub the soap over it with water i till it lathers. GREEN FIRE, To Make.—Flour of sulphur, thirteen parts; nitrate of baryta (well dried and powdered), seventy-seven parts ; oxymu- riate of potassa, five parts ; metallic arsenic, two parts ; charcoal, three parts. GREEN-FLY, To Destroy.—Mix together soft soap and a solu- tion of tobacco, paint it upon the stems and infested leaves, and alterwards syringe with clear water. GREENGAGE TART.—Fill a pie-dish with fruit which is not quite ripe, then dissolve a quarter of a pound of sugar in a little water and pour the syrup over the fruit, cover with a puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. When done brush the yolk of egg over the top, replace it in the oven for a few minutes, and upon taking it out, sift over it powdered white sugar. GREENS, Gaseous Exhalations from.—A piece of bread, about the size of a billiard ball, tied up in a linen bag and placed in the pot in w'hich greens are boiling will absorb the gases which sometimes send such unpleasant odours through the house. GREYHOUNDS (FEED FOR), when Training.—Take wheat- meal and oatmeal of each equal quantities ; liquorice, anise seed, and whites of eggs; beat the whole into a paste, form into loaves, and bake. They must be broken up and given in rich broth. GRIPES, To Relieve Babies Suffering from.—Powdered rhubarb, half a scruple ; carbonate of magnesia, one scruple ; simple syrup, three drams ; dill water, eight drams. Mix, and give one teaspoonful every four hours to infants under six months old, or two teaspoonfuls every four hours to children over six months of age. GROAT GRUEL.—Boil half a pound of groats in two quarts of water, with a blade of mace ; when the groats are soft, add white wine and sugar to taste. Serve with toast. GROUND RICE PUDDING.—Boil two dessert-spoonfuls of ground rice in a pint of milk with cinnamon and lemon peel ; let it grow cold, then add two well-beaten eggs, a little nutmeg, a few raisins, and enough sugar to sweeten to taste. Line a pie-dish with crust, pour in the rice, &c., and bake.84 GROUSE PIE.—Cover the bottom of a dish with slices of veal and bacon ; then chop up and mix some parsley, onion, and mushrooms with bread crumbs, and sprinkle it over the veal; put in the flesh of the bird, cover with bacon, season with cayenne and cloves ; add a few spoon- fuls of good brown gravy or stock ; cover with a paste, and bake. When nearly done, raise the crust and pour in a glassful of port wine. GROUSE (ROAST).—Clean the bird and put inside a piece of butter covered with pepper ; twist the head under the wing, and roast for half an hour. Serve with rich gravy and bread sauce, or with toast satu- rated with gravy. GRUBS, To Free Trees from.—Make a bonfire of dry sticks and weeds in such a manner that the smoke is driven among the trees. The grubs will soon fall off, and should then be swept up. GUINEA PIGS.—These small rodenis are very much like rabbits in their mode of living, and may consequently receive the same treatment in regard to food, &c. They must be kept warm, dry, and very clean. GUM AND STARCH PASTE, To Preserve.—If creosote be added to these until its odour is faintly apparent it will prevent them from fermenting and giving forth an offensive odour, and their adhesiveness will not be impaired even if kept for months. This will be found more effectual than oil of cloves, alum, or other essential oils and salts which are so fre- quently added to counteract their tendency to go bad during hot weather. A few drops of sulphuric acid will prevent decay in solutions of gum- arabic. GUM FOR GENERAL USE.—Dissolve equal parts of gum- arabic and gum-tragacanth in vinegar. Will keep good any length of time. GUM (LIQUID).—Add half a pint of cold water to three ounces of gum-arabic. Stir occasionally until the whole is dissolved, which will take about a day and a night. Bottle off and keep well corked. GUM (STARCH), To Make.—Mix some starch with four times its weight of water. Keep it for some time at a temperature of 140 degrees Fahr., then suddenly raise it to 160 degrees, and the starch will be con- verted into gum. Fermentation may be checked by the addition of a little alum. Used for flaps of envelopes, &c. GUMS, Tonic for the.—Infuse an ounce of coarsely-powdered Peruvian bark in half a pint of brandy for three weeks. Gargle the mouth two or three times a day with a spoonful of this tincture mixed with the like quantity of rose-water. GUMBOILS.—If these are caused by the irritation of the nerves of a decayed tooth, there is no remedy so effectual as extracting the trouble- some member; but if brought on by cold, prick the abscess directly the matter is formed, and afterwards wash the mouth occasionally with twenty- five grains of white vitriol dissolved in half a pint of rose-water. GUN BARRELS, To Bronze.—Dilute nitric acid with water, rub the barrels with it, lay the guns by for a few days, then rub with oil and polish with beeswax. GUTTA-PERCHA, To Dissolve.—See Indiarubker. HADDOCKS (CURED), To Bake.—Scald the fish in a baking- dish of hot water, let it stand a few minutes, then drain the water off; sprinkle with pepper and a few small pieces of butter, pour over it a gill of milk, cover with a flat dish, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. HADDOCKS (CURED), To Dress.—Remove the skin, rub the flesh with egg, and roll it in bread crumbs, toast before the fire, basting frequently with butter. Serve with egg sauce. HADDOCKS (FRESH), To Bake.—Clean, scale, wash, and dry the fish, and cut off the fins. Mix two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs,8S two ounces of suet, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, a pinch of salt, and a little pepper ; put it inside the fish, sew it up, and tie the fish in a nice shape. Beat up an egg, brush the fish over with it, and dip it in bread crumbs. Lay the haddock in a greased tin, and bake for half an hour. Draw out the string or cotton, garnish with parsley, and serve with melted butter. For a change the fish may be boned, stuffed, rolled up, and cooked after the above method. HADDOCKS (FRESH), To Boil.—Clean the fish and put them into a kettle of cold water with a handful of salt and a small cupful of vinegar. Boil for twenty minutes. Garnish with horse-radish, and serve with oyster or shrimp sauce. HADDOCKS (FRESH), To Broil.—Gut, wash, and dry the fish, rub them over with vinegar, and dust them with flour. Make a gridiron hot, grease it well to prevent the fish sticking to it, and broil the haddocks, turning them several times. Serve with melted butter or cockle sauce. HADDOCKS, To Cure.—Cut off the heads, rip the fish open, clean them, lay them flat, cover with salt, and let them remain for two or three hours, then brush them over with pyroligneous acid, and hang them up for a fortnight. A quicker method is to put them on a string and hang them over a peat fire which does not emit much smoke or heat. They will be fit to eat in two or three hours. HAIRBRUSHES, To Clean.—Pour on to the bristles half a teaspoonful of hartshorn and ammonia, rub them quickly with the tips of the fingers ; dip them in hot water, taking care not to wet the back or the handle of the brush ; then rinse with cold water, and set to dry with the bristles downwards. HAIR DYE (BLACK), A Gradual.—Take one part of nitrate of silver and two parts each of dilute nitric acid and iron filings. Mix. Let stand for a day, then add three parts of lard, two parts of oatmeal, and a few drops of bergamot or other scent. HAIR DYE (BROWN).—Tincture of the shucks of walnuts, scented with oil of lavender, forms a good brown dye for the hair. HAIR DYE (CHESTNUT BROWN).—Permanganate of potash, one dram ; powdered gum arabic, two drams ; rose-water, three ounces. Mix, and apply carefully with a small brush, so as not to stain the skin. HAIR DYE (COLOMBIAN).—Hydrosulphuret of ammonia, one ounce ; solution of potash, three drams ; rain-water, one ounce. Mix. Put into small bottles, and label "Solution A.” Then take nitrate of silver, one dram ; rain-water, two ounces. Dissolve, and label ‘‘Solution B.” Apply Solution A to the hair with a tooth-brush, continuing to do so for about a quarter of an hour. Then brush over with Solution B, using a comb to separate the hair, so as to colour it equally all over, taking care not to let the liquid (which produces a permanent dark stain) come in contact with the skin. This is a really good dye. HAIR FIXATURE. See Bandoline. HAIR (GOLDEN), To Preserve the Colour of.—The use of peroxide of hydrogen is altogether harmless, and this liquid applied evenly to the whole of the hair will turn it to a uniform golden colour. This does not actually dye the hair, but extracts the colour through a chemical process. HAIR OIL (CRYSTALLISED).—Almond oil, one fluid pound j spermaceti, a quarter of a pound ; otto of lemon, one ounce. Mix. HAIR OIL (FAMILY).—Break into very small pieces a quarter of an ounce of spermaceti, and melt it over the fire with a gill of oil of86 sweet almonds. When cold stir in a few drops of oil of bergamot, rubbed up with half a grain of civit. HAIR OIL (MACASSAR).—To one ounce of olive oil add one dram of oil of origan and one dram and a quarter of oil of rosemary. Mix well. This oil is used to stimulate the growth of the hair and to make it curl. HAIR OIL (QUEEN’S).—Oil of ben, one pint; civit, three grains; Italian oil of jasmine, three fluid ounces; otto of roses, three minims. If otto of roses cannot be obtained, twelve minims of common oil of roses may be substituted. HAIR OIL (RED).—Put a pint of olive oil into a jar with a little alkanet root, stand it in an oven or by the fire to get hot, and when the colour is deep enough, let it grow cold, then stir into the oil half a dram of otto of roses, and the same quantity of oil of rosemary. HAIR, To Cleanse and Strengthen the.—Take one ounce of borax and half an ounce of camphor, powder fine, and dissolve in one quart of boiling water. When cool the solution will be fit for use. Damp the hair frequently with it. The camphor will form again into lumps as the lotion increases in age, but this will not signify, as the water will be sufficiently impregnated. HAIR, To Prevent its Falling off.—The hair may be kept from falling off after a severe illness by a frequent application to the scalp of sage tea. HAIR, To Prevent the Extension of Gray.—Melt together a quarter of a pound of lard and four drams of spermaceti, and when it is getting cold stir in four drams of oxide of bismuth and a few drops of any kind of perfume. Use whenever the hair requires dressing. Dark hair may be prevented from turning gray by washing it with a mixture of one ounce of sulphate of iron and a full pint of red wine. HAIR, To Promote the Growth of.—To two ounces of eau-de- Cologne add two drams of tincture of cantharides, ten drops of oil of rosemary, and the same number of oil of lavender. Use two or three times daily ; but discontinue for a time if the scalp become tender. The following is also recommended for strengthening and promoting the growth of the hair :—Mix cantharides with castor oil in the proportion of one dram to each ounce of oil, and apply once a day. An excellent mixture is likewise made with eight ounces of olive oil, sixty drops each of oils of lemon and bergamot, ten drops of oil of roses, and sixty drops of tincture of cantharides. HAIR, To Remove Superfluous.—Mix with the white of an egg one ounce of finely-powdered quicklime and one dram of finely-powdered orpiment. Spread the paste thickly over the hair, and let it remain on as long as it can be borne, then scrape it off with a bone knife, wash thoroughly, and apply a little cold cream to the skin. It should be stated that all depilatories are more or less injurious to the skin, and should be used with caution. Another good method is to pull the hairs out carefully one by one by the roots, and apply to the parts a little carbonate of bismuth moistened with glycerine. Or, to eight ounces of quicklime add one ounce of dry pearlash and one ounce of sulphuret of potassium. This must not remain on for more than two or three minutes, when it should be gently scraped off, and the part anointed with cold cream. HAIRWASH, A Stimulating.—Mix four drams of tincture of nux vomica with one ounce of distilled vinegar, six drams of tincture of cantha- rides, one dram of glycerine, and seven ounces of rose-water.37 HAIRWASH (ATHENIAN).—Boil in a glass vessel a quarter of a pound of sassafras wood in a gallon of rose-water ; let it stand till cold then add a pint of alcohol and an ounce of pearlash. This wash is highly recommended for cleansing and improving the hair in every respect. HAIRWASH (ROSEMARY). —Pour boiling water on to rose- mary leaves, and add a piece of ammonia the size of a pigeon's egg ; let it stand for a few hours, when it will be ready for use. This wash not only cleanses the hair, but acts as a stimulant to its growth. HALIBUT (FRIED).—Cut the fish into thin slices, rib it with a knife, and fry it in butter till it is beginning to brown ; then take it up, drain it, and put it into a clean frying-pan with a glass of port, sliced ginger, grated nutmeg, anchovy sauce, and saffron beaten ; fry again ; add butter, and a minced lemon ; shake well, and serve. HAM AND CHICKEN PATTIES.—Take equal quantities of finely-minced ham and chicken, add some good gravy, with a little cayenne and white pepper, grated lemon peel, and some of the juice of the lemon ; stir over the fire till hot. Line the moulds with paste, put in the meat, cover with a crust, and bake. HAM AND VEAL PATTIES.—These are made in the same way as ham and chicken patties, with the exception that a little cream is put into them. HAM (POTTED).—Chop, and pound very fine, four pounds of lean ham and two pounds of roast veal, add a pound and a half of butter, a little cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and ground mace. Pot, and cover with hot butter. HAMS, To Carve.—Hams should be cut in very thin slices. The most prevalent way is to begin at a little distance from the knuckle, and to proceed towards the thick end, or blade. A baked ham may be cut much thinner than a boiled one. HAMS, To Cook.—Scrape the ham clean, put it into a saucepan of warm water, and let it simmer for about six hours ; take it out, remove the rind, and rub into the flesh as much granulated sugar as it will receive ; place it in a baking-dish, pour upon it a bottle of cider, and bake an hour in a gentle oven, basting it occasionally with the cider. HAMS, To Choose.—Thrust a knife into the flesh under the bone ; if it has a pleasant smell when withdrawn, the ham is good, but if not it should be rejected. The recently cut fat should be hard and white, and the lean fine grained and of a lively red. Short hocked hams are the best. HAMS, To Cure.—If the weather will permit, let it hang for a couple of days ; then beat it with a rolling-pin. Mix together one pound of bay salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, a handful of common salt, and half a pound of coarse sugar ; warm the mixture and rub it well into the ham ; lay it, rind downwards, in the pickle, and cover the fleshy part with the same ; turn and baste it every day for a month, then drain, wash off the salt with cold water, dry it with a cloth, pepper the inside and the knuckle, hang it in a warm room, and when dry, suspend it in a cotton bag in a cool, well-ventilated room. HANDS (MOIST), To Treat.—Bathe them occasionally in either salt water or vinegar. Or rub them with a mixture of equal parts of alum and tannic acid. A little of this powder may also be put into the glove. HANDS, To Check Excessive Perspiration of the.—A simple remedy for this uncomfortable affliction may be found in washing in warm water with club-moss, which may be obtained of any chemist. HANDS, To Cool and Improve the.—To two-thirds of glycerine add one-third of rose-water, and rub it on the hands after each ablution83 HANDS, To Remove. Stains from the.—Stains of all descriptions may be removed from the hands by washing in a small quantity of oil of vitriol and cold water, no soap being used. HANDS, To Whiten the.—Take a wineglassful of eau-de-Cologne, and one of lemon juice; then shave into thin slices two cakes of brown Windsor soap, melt it over the fire, add the Cologne-water and lemon juice, stir it together, and pour it into a mould of any description. When hard it will be fit for use. See also Almond Paste for the Hands. HARE (BROILED).—Rub the legs and shoulders with cold butter or bacon fat, then put them into a vessel with salt, pepper, a little parsley, a couple of sliced onions, a little thyme, a bay leaf, a glass of vinegar, and half a glass of water ; let them remain in this seasoning for a couple of days ; drain, rub them again with butter, and broil. HARE (JUGGED), To Prepare.—Wash, and cut the hare into suitable pieces, put them into a stone jar with some sweet herbs, an onion with a few cloves stuck in it, a few pieces of lemon peel, and a teacupful of water ; tie the jar down with a bladder ; then put a little hay at the bottom of a saucepan, place the jar therein, three-parts fill with water, and boil till the flesh is tender, which will probably take about three hours, replenishing the water as it boils away. When quite tender, strain the gravy from the fat, thicken it with flour, and give it a boil up ; then lay the hare in a dish, pour the gravy over it, garnish with forcemeat balls, and serve with black currant jelly. HARE (POTTED).—Season, and bake with butter ; let it cool, then pound it very fine with some ham, a little parsley, thyme, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt; add a spoonful of the gravy which came from the hare when baked, put it into pots, and cover with melted butter. HARE (ROAST).—Choose a tender hare, skin it, and make a stuffing in the following manner :—Take a good handful of bread crumbs, with the same quantity of beef suet well chopped, a little chopped parsiey, lemon-thyme, and shalot, two eggs, a little butter and milk, salt, and pepper ; mix these into an oval shape, and sew them up in the belly of the hare ; skewer the legs under the body, and hang it at a little distance from the fire. Stop the spit frequently with the stuffed part to the fire, or it will not be ready when the other parts are done. It will take from an hour upwards, according to tenderness or age, during the first half of which it should be basted with milk, and afterwards with butter. Serve with rich gravy and currant jelly. HARE SOUP.—Cut a hare into pieces, put into a stew-pan with a glass of port wine, two onions stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little cayenne pepper ; simmer slowly for one hour, then cover the whole with good boiling broth, and simmer slowly till the meat is done. Remove the flesh and let it drain ; strain the broth through a hair sieve, put in a quarter of a pound of French barley, or the crumbs of a twopenny loaf ; scald the liver, rub it through a sieve into the soup. Take the meat from the bones, and pound it in a mortar, return it to the soup, and place on the fire till near boiling. When ready to serve up, add the blood from the hare ; this will darken the soup, but take care that it does not curdle. Serve with toasted bread in the tureen. The soup must never be made too thick. HARE, To Carve a.—Hares are sent to table on their haunches with their heads to the left of the carver. The choice slices are obtained from cuts made down the whole length of the back, the next favourite parts being the legs, which are taken off and the flesh divided from or served upon them after the small bones have been parted from the thighs ;89 after this separate the shoulders by passing the knife between the joint and the trunk. Divide the head by inserting the knife at the top, and cut it through in the direction of the nose, first separating the upper from the under jaw. The head, brains, and ears (which should be cut off close to the roots) are by some persons considered dainty morsels. When the hare is young the back is divided at the joints into three or four parts, after being freed from the ribs and under-skin. It has lately become the fashion to bone hares before sending them to table. The stuffing, to be sent with every plate, will be found inside the belly. HARES, To Choose.—Hares intended to be roasted should be young ; when old they are only fit to be stewed. In order to judge of their age feel the first joint of the fore claw; if a small nut can be felt, the animal is still of a tender age ; should this nut have disappeared, turn the claw sideways, if the joint crack, the hare is young. When these indications are wanting, it is a sign of age. HARICOT BEANS AND MINCED ONIONS.—Soak a pint of haricot beans in cold water all night; put them into a saucepan with a little butter and two quarts of cold water, boil gently for two hours, and drain them in a colander. Peel three onions, cut them into small pieces, and fry them in butter a light brown colour ; stir in a teaspoonful of flour ; add a gill of brown gravy, season with pepper and salt, and stir it until it boils and thickens ; put in the beans, mix the whole, and serve as hot as possible. HARNESS (BLACK), Polish for.—One dram of indigo, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, half an ounce of soft soap, four ounces of glue, a pennyworth of logwood raspings, and a quart of vinegar. Boil the whole on a stove till reduced to a pint. Apply with a sponge. HARNESS, Composition for.—Melt twelve ounces of beeswax and a quarter of a pound of mutton suet ; add three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of soft soap dissolved in water, and two ounces of finely-powdered indigo. Mix well together, then add half a pint turpentine. Apply with a sponge, and polish off with a brush. HARNESS (FADED), To Restore.—Faded harness may be restored to a good condition by applying a mixture of logwood and bichro- mate of potass, or powdered Aleppo galls, with a little alum. HARNESS, To Clean.—Sponge off all the dirt, then apply with a soft brush a mixture of rotten-stone, pulverised charcoal, and Galipoli oil ; wipe with a soft cloth, and polish off with prepared charcoal. The brass ornaments may be cleaned with equal parts of nitric acid, sulphuric acid, and water, applied with a woollen cloth tied on to a stick ; let the mixture remain on for a moment, then wash it off, and polish with a leather. HARVEST BUGS, Bites from.—A little benzine sprinkled over the stockings will prevent these insects from attacking the flesh. If this precaution has been neglected and a bite has resulted, by no means scratch the place, but bear the irritation until benzine can be obtained, the applica- tion of which will immediately kill the insect. A small drop of tincture of iodine has the same effect. HASTY PUDDING (BAKED).—Stir half a pound of flour into a pint of cold milk, pour it into a saucepan, and bring it to a boil ; let it stand till cold, then add two well-beaten eggs, a little spice, and sugar enough to sweeten ; mix well, pour into cups, and bake. HASTY PUDDINGS (BOILED).—Grate some bread, and finely chop a little suet, add a few currants, the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, some grated lemon peel, and ginger ; mix, and form it into balls about the size of an egg, with a little flour ; put them into boiling 139° water, and let them keep boiling for twenty minutes. Serve with sugar and butter. HATFIELD (ICED).—Put four slices of lemon into a large jug, adding a quartern of the best gin, and one teaspoonful of Noyeau, with a moderate proportion of clear ice ; then add a bottle of ginger beer, a bottle of soda water, and a bottle of lemonade ; mix well together and drink quickly. This is a very cooling and refreshing drink, and being pleasant to the palate, is much drunk on the cricket field. HATS (SILK), Wet.—A silk hat should be handled very lightly when it is wet. Wipe it as dry as possible with a silk handkerchief, then apply a soft brush. Should any portion of the nap be found to stick to- gether, damp it slightly with a sponge moistened with beer or vinegar, and brush it before a fire until quite dry. HATS, Stiffening for.—Dissolve three ounces of borax in half a gallon of warm water, pour the liquid into a copper pan, and add three pounds and a half of shellac, half a pound of amber rosin, two ounces of gum-thus (or resin from the spruce tree), and two ounces of gum-mastic. Boil the whole together until the rosins are melted, adding more water if necessary ; then add a gill of wood naphtha, and a quarter of a pound of copal varnish. Stir all together, and while hot strain through a sieve. Use while hot, previously washing the hats with hot potash-water and thoroughly drying them. When the stiffening is dry, steep the hats for twelve hours in a weak solution of sulphuric acid, and dry them on blocks. HAWTHORN FLAVOURING.—To one pint of grain spirit (over proof) add half a pound of hawthorn buds. Cork up, and leave it to infuse for eight days; filter through blotting paper. A weak solution for immediate use can be made by pouring boiling water upon the flowers and letting them steep till cold. HAY FEVER, To Cure.—This unpleasant complaint may be cured by aconite and white wine whey taken at bed-time. Boil half a pint of milk, add a little aconite and a glass of sherry, strain through muslin, and sweeten the whey with white sugar. To twelve parts of absolute phenol, eight parts of carbonate of ammonia, twenty-two parts of strong solution of ammonia, half a part of oil of lavender, and one and a half parts of camphor, add a little sifted pine sawdust. Inhale five or six times a day, or when the sneezing comes on. Relief has often been found by wearing tinted side spectacles to soften the light and lessen the glare of the sun. HAY, To Ascertain the Weight of.—Measure the length and breadth of the stack, then its height to the eaves ; add to this last one-third or one- half (according to the pitch) the height from the eaves to the ridge at top. Multiply the length by the breadth, and the product by the height, ex- pressed in feet ; divide the amount by 27 in order to find "the cubic yards: multiply these by the number of stones of 22lb. New hay will average six stones, old hay from eight to nine stones. Thus in a stack of new hay 60 feet long, 40 in breadth, 12 in height to the eaves, and 9 (the half of tvhich is 4.^) from the eaves to the top, there will be 60 multiplied by 40, laultiplied by i6|, making 39,600 cubic feet ; these divided by 27 give 1,466 cubic yards each of six stones of 22lb., or nearly 8,797 stones. HEADACHE (SICK).—Sick headache caused by indigestion may be relieved by a little soda water. HEADACHE, To Obtain Relief from.—Moisten a rag with either sulphuric ether or sweet spirit of nitre, and lay it across the forehead, vovering it with a piece of oiled silk, to prevent evaporation. It will be necessary to wet the rag with the ether frequently,as its effects soon pass off.9r HEARTBURN, Lozenges for.—Powdered sugar, one hundred parts ; prepared chalk, fifteen parts ; sub-carbonate of soda, five parts ; mix with gum mucilage. HEARTBURN, Remedies for.—Add two drams of carbonate oi magnesia to a cupful of milk, and drink it whenever the rising is ex- perienced. Eating a raw turnip will also take away the smarting sensation. The following effervescing driuk is also good :—The juice of an orange, with loaf sugar to flavour, and, in proportion to the acidity of the orange, a little bicarbonate of soda. Mix the orange juice, sugar, and water together in a tumbler, then add the soda ; stir, and drink while effer- vescing. HEARTHS, To Take Grease Spots Out of.—Grease spots may generally be removed from hearths by covering them with hot ashes or live coals. Where this is not effectual, place some fullers’ earth upon the part and let it remain for some hours. HEATH MOULD, Substitute for.—Well mix silver sand, light loam, leaf mould, rotten sawdust and tan, baked vegetable refuse, and the sweepings from the bottom of a wood stack. HEATH, The Cultivation of.—The various kinds of heath are struck in sand, under a bell-glass, from very small cuttings of the terminal shoots, but they are of very slow growth. They require to be planted in heath mould, to be kept at a uniform temperature, and never too wet nor too dry. Those from the Cape rarely survive our winter unless the utmost care is bestowed upon them. HEDGEHOGS.—These quadrupeds are useful in bakehouses and other places which are frequented by beetles. They should be kept in a cage during the day and released at night to catch their prey. Feed them on bread and milk, and give them occasionally a few earth worms. HELLEBORE (BLACK), or Christmas Rose.—This plant flowers from December to February, according to the weather, and bears a handsome white blossom tinged with pink. It requires a light, fresh loam soil and is propagated by division of the root. It should not be dis- turbed too often. It may also be grown from seed sown as soon as it is ripe. The plants thus produced will flower in their third year. It is usual to set them at the foot of an east wall, as in that position their flowers escape damage from severe south-west storms. HEPATIC AS.—These charming spring plants, whose flowers appear before the leaves, are universally admired. There are both single and double varieties. The former are generally grown from seed, sown directly it is ripe. As this continues green for some time after it reaches maturity it is necessary to watch it closely, as it falls with the slightest touch. The double varieties are increased by division of the stools, but they do not like to be disturbed too often. They should be planted in a light loam soil, and occupy a half-shady position, where they will not be too dry. It is advisable to cut away the dead leaves at the end of December, so that the flowers may have full opportunity of displaying themselves. HERB BEER.—Boil for one hour In five gallons of water two ounces of dandelion leaves, five ounces of sliced ginger root, and half an ounce of hops ; strain, and add three pounds of brown sugar, and two ounces of Spanish juice. Ferment for twenty-four hours, and bottle for use. Nettles, balm, and other herbs may be used instead of dandelion. HERB MEDICINE, To Preserve.—If the bottles are corked tightly while the medicine is still quite warm it will keep an indefinite time.92 HERBS, To Propagate.—Parsley and fennel are best raised from seed ; sage, rue, and rosemary from slips ; marjoram, thyme, basil, and balm by division of the roots. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Bake. Remove the heads and guts, cut off the tails, and lay them in a disn ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and strew over them some finely chopped garlic, parsley, and thyme ; cover them with vinegar, add a bay leaf, tie them over, and bake in a slow oven for one hour. They make a very agreeable dish either hot or cold. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Boil.—Wash them well and wipe them with a cloth dipped in vinegar ; pass the tails through the gills and put them into boiling water with a little salt ; boil gently for ten or twelve minutes ; garnish with parsley, and serve with melted butter, to which has been added a tablespoonful of chili vinegar and the same quantity of ketchup. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Broil.—Soak the fish for ten minutes in vinegar and water, to which has been added a little salt ; then rub the gridiron with suet to prevent them sticking, and broil over a clear fire. Garnish the dish with parsley, and serve with lemon juice. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Fry.—Slice some onions and fry them ; when done cover them up and put over a saucepan of boiling water. Put the fish on to fry, and when done serve in the middle of a dish with the onions placed round. Those who are very partial to the taste of onion fry the vegetable and fish together. HERRINGS (FRESH), To Pot.—Pick out about eighteen or twenty fine large fish, and rub them with a mixture of two ounces of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of allspice, each reduced to a fine powder, lay them by for about eight hours, then wipe off the spice, and put them into a buttered pan ; season with one ounce each of mace, nutmeg, white pepper, and salt, one clove, and a couple of bay leaves ; cover with butter, and bake slowly for three hours. Let them cool, drain off the liquor, put the fish in pots, and cover to the depth of half an inch in clarified butter, just warm enough to run. They will be ready for table in two or three days. HERRINGS (RED), To Dress.—Soak them for half an hour in cold water, then lay them in milk for a couple of hours ; when taken out, split them down the back, rub them with melted butter, to which has previously been added the yolk of an egg, a bay leaf, nutmeg, and pepper, and broil over a slow fire. Serve with lemon. HERRINGS, To Choose.—When fresh herrings are good the flesh is firm, the eyes full, the gills red, and the scales bright. Those with soft roes are the most delicate. In selecting red herrings choose those which are large and firm, with full roes, and having a yellow cast on the skin. HESPERIS, OR ROCKET, To Propagate. — This flower flourishes best in a deep, rich, strong loam, or clayey soil, and may be in- creased by dividing the stools annually, shifting the plant to a different position each season. It may also be multiplied by means of cuttings. HICCOUGH, To Relieve.—Hiccough may be relieved by the sudden application of cold, as by eating a piece of ice, or drinking cold water. Holding the breath will also cause this unpleasant convulsive sort of cough to pass off. Should it prove obstinate, put three drops of oil of cinnamon on a piece of sugar, hold it in the mouth till it dissolves, then gently swallow it. HOARSENESS (SUDDEN), To Remove.—Take a teaspoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in a wineglassful of water. Or a little salt prunella dissolved slowly in the mouth, or eating a piece of anchovy will generally remove it.93 The following will likewise be found very useful:—Spermaceti powder, half an ounce ; gum-arabic powder, half an ounce ; elixir paregoric, three drams ; honey, one tablespoonful. Mix, and take a teaspoonful dissolved in the mouth. HOLLY HEDGES.—Holly forms a very effectual and durable hedge, and is, moreover, very pleasing to the eye. It is raised from the berries, which are laid in aheap and allowed to rot during the winter. The young plants are set out in October, and kept free from weeds until they have attained strength. They will grow in any soil, but do best in a light loam. HOLLYHOCK.—This flower flourishes best on a deep, moist, rich loam, but will grow in any good garden soil. It may be multiplied by seed sown in March and the plants set out in October where they are in- tended to bloom, choosing a dry day for this operation, and placing them in an airy situation, fully exposed to the sun. The flower-stems should in all cases be secured to stakes, so as to prevent injury from strong winds, and, if the season be dry, the plants watered with weak liquid manure. HONEY (ARTIFICIAL).—Good white sugar, five pounds; water, one quart ; bring them gradually to a boil, skim well, then add pulverised alum, a quarter of an ounce. When cool stir in cream of tartar, half an ounce, and extract of roses, one tablespoonful. HONEY BALSAM, for a Cough.—Add a teacupful of vinegar to a pound of honey ; boil, and skim ; when cold stir in an ounce of elixir of paregoric, put into a bottle, and keep well corked. Dose : One tablespoon- ful every four hours. HONEY OF ROSES, for Sore Mouths, Breasts, &c.—Steep a quarter of a pound of dried red rose buds in three pints of boiling water for six hours ; strain, add five pounds of clarified honey to the liquor, and boil to a syrup. HONEY, To obtain.—See Bf.es’ Hives. HONEYSUCKLE, The Cultivation of.—These sweetly-perfumed climbers are useful for covering walls, trellis-work, or arches, as, in addition to the beauty of their foliage they have the advantage of leafing early. They prefer a sound, deep, light loam, with a partly shaded situation. There are also shrubby varieties, which are mostly hardy, and may be readily increased from rooted suckers, layers, or cuttings, and also by seed from their berries. HONEY WATER COSMETIC.— Dissolve two ounces of powdered volatile salts in a pint of water ; add half a dram of oil of cloves, and the same quantity of oil of lavender and oil of bergamot. Rose and orange-flower water may likewise be added. HOOPING-COUGH, Liniment for.—Mix together eight ounces of olive oil, four ounces of oil of amber, and sufficient oil of cloves to impart a strong scent. Rub the mixture on the chest, but not during the first ten days of the complaint. This liniment may also be used for ordinary coughs. Good old rum, rubbed on the back and chest before going to bed, in- variably procures a night’s repose. HOOPING-COUGH, To Relieve.—Take of musk julep, six ounces ; paregoric elixir, half an ounce; volatile tincture of valerian, one dram. Mix. Dose : Two spoonfuls three or four times a day. HOP BITTERS.—Pour a quart of boiling water upon two ounces of hops, and infuse for twenty-four hours. Dose : One wineglasslul half an hour before meals. HOPS, Extract of.—Make a very strong infusion of hops, boil it to a thin syrup, and let it steam, closely covered, till thick. Make into pills of from five to ten grains. Useful in cases of nervous depression.HOPS, Tincture of.—Macerate two ounces of hops in half a pint of proof spirits. Is good for “ after-pains ” and inflammation of the bowels. Dose : From half to one dram. HOREHOUND CANDY.—Boil a pound and a half of sugar in half a pint of water till candied, then stir in a little dried horehound. Pour it on to a marble slab or buttered paper, let it cool, and cut it into squares. HOREHOUND SYRUP, for Consumption of the Lungs.—Infuse a poppy-head and one ounce of dried horehound for two days in a quartern of spirits and the same amount of boiling water ; strain, and add two ounces of honey and a teaspoonful of essence of lemon. HORN, to Soften.—Put into a quart of water one pound of wood ashes and two pounds of quicklime ; boil to one-third of the quantity, then dip in a feather ; if, on drawing it out, the plume should come off, it is a proof that it is boiled enough ; if not, boil longer. Let it settle, filter it off, and put shavings of horn into the liquor. Let them soak for three days; then, having anointed the hands with oil, work the whole into a mass and mould it into the desired form. HORN, To Stain. See Ivory, Horn, and Bone. HORSES, Colic or Gripes in.—Give in a little warm gruel a pint and a half of linseed oil and an ounce and a half of laudanum. Or, take half a dram of powdered opium, two drams of camphor, two drams of Castile soap, one dram of ginger, and one dram of cayenne pepper. Mix with a little treacle, roll into a ball, adding five or six drops of croton oil. HORSES, Coughs of.—Colds and coughs are best treated with cold bran mashes, with half a pound of linseed, and one ounce of saltpetre each mash. Or, give one-third of a tumbler of cod-liver oil night and morning. HORSES’ EYES, To Clear.—Sandiver (axungia vitri), or salt of glass, is generally used by farriers for this purpose. HORSES’ FEET, To Prevent “Interfering” of.—Make the inner half, or halves, of the shoe, or shoes, one-eighth of an inch thicker than the outer half, or halves, and set them even with the face of the hoof. They will then travel with their feet far enough apart not to cut themselves when they slip. HORSES, Laxative Powder for.—Pound together four ounces of crocus of antimony, four ounces of nitre, four ounces of sulphur, and four ounces of cream of tartar. A tablespoonful of the mixture to be given night and morning three or four days in succession in a mash of scalded bran. It is especially good for horses kept on dry food, and for stallions during spring. HORSES, Purge for.—To one ounce of aloes add two drams of rhubarb, five drops of oil of peppermint, and sufficient honey to work it up into a ball. HORSES, Splint and Spavin in.—A splint is a bony excrescence growing a little under the knee. It may be cured in the following manner, but results must not be too speedily looked for :—Cut the hair close, and beat the splint gently till it becomes hot to the touch, then rub on some ointment made by thoroughly mixing one ounce of mercurial ointment with two drams of Spanish flies. A little of the ointment to be applied once a week till the excrescence is removed. The spavin is of the same nature and grows on the instep bone, close to the hough. It may be cured in the same manner as the splint ; but should this fail, burn the part, and turn the animal out to grass for two or three months.95 HORSES, Strains and Wounds.—Goulard’s extract, one ounce ; spirits of turpentine, one ounce; spirits of wine, one ounce ; strong vinegar, one pint. Mix, and rub gently on to the part affected. HORSES, Surfeit or Diseased Skin.—Mix together half a pound of sulphur, half a pound of saltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of black antimony. A large tablespoonful to be given in their corn night and morning. HORSES, To Assist their Digestion.—Horses are fond of salt, and it is a good practice to sprinkle the hay with water in which salt has been dissolved. Or, suspend a lump of rock-salt above the manger, where he can lick it at pleasure. It materially assists the process of digestion. HORSES, To Keep Flies from.—The Jourtuil of Chemistry gives the following remedy :—Take two or three small handfuls of walnut leaves, upon which pour two or three quarts of cold water ; let them infuse one night, and pour the whole next morning into a kettle, and let them boil for a quarter of an hour. When cold the mixture is fit for use. Eefore the horse goes out of the stable, moisten a sponge and let those parts which are most irritable be smeared over with the liquor, namely, between and upon the ears, the neck, the flanks, &c. While the horse derives benefit from this decoction, the driver will receive pleasure from its fragrance. A decoction of the leaves and young shoots of the elder (especially of the dwarf species) will also be found very effectual. HORSE TAMING.—Get a shillingsworth of each of the follow- ing :—Oils of laudanum, rhodium, dragon, scate, marjoram, cedar, and kipney, and mix them together before shoeing. Wet a rag with the mixture and tie it round the bit. It will cause the horse to doze, and be quite manageable. In extreme cases a small thimbleful poured into the ear will produce at once the desired effect. This will quiet any colt, however vicious he may be, and is quite harmless. HOTCH-POTCH.—Boil a pint of peas in a quart of water till they are tender, then pulp them through a sieve. Put about three pounds of lean mutton chops into a gallon of water, three or four carrots and turnips, an onion, pepper, and salt; stew till the vegetables are tender, then put in the pulped peas and a few sticks of celery ; boil another quarter of an hour and serve. HOUSES, Best Time to Paint.—Paint on surfaces exposed to the sun will be much more durable if applied in autumn or spring than if put on during hot weather. In cool weather it dries slowly, forms a hard, glossy coat, tough like glass ; while, if applied in warm weather, the oil soaks into the wood, leaving the paint so dry that it is rapidly beaten off by rains. HUNTER PUDDING.—Mix in a basin three-quarters of a pound of flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Chop finely a quarter of a pound of suet, and stone half a pound of raisins (currants or sultanas may be substituted). Add the suet and fruit, with two ounces of brown sugar, to the flour ; mix well, and make it into a light, firm paste with a gill and a half of water. Dip the middle of a pudding cloth in boiling water, flour it, and tie the pudding tightly in it, leaving room for swelling. Put into boiling water, and boil quickly for an hour and a half. HYACINTPIS.—Prepare a compost of equal proportions of light loam, leaf mould, river sand, and weil-rotted dung. Bury the bulb two- thirds deep in the soil, leaving the upper portion exposed to view. After planting, give a plentiful supply of water, stand them in the dark till the central bud has attained the height of half an inch, then expose them to light and warmth. When the flowering is over do not disturb the bulbs96 till the leaves have withered, then remove them from the earth, cut off the tops, and keep in a dry place till the end of September, when they may again be planted ready for the following spring. If planted in the open they must be well protected from the frost. When grown in pots they should be set in clumps of three or four, as this method not only gives a good display of colours, but it allows the plants to strike their roots vertically. HYDRANGEA, The Cultivation of.—These handsome shrubs, bearing immense balls of flowers, like a light soil, with which is incorporated a good amount of sand. If kept in pots the mould needs renewing every year. Loose straw should be strewn over the bushes in winter, so as to protect the shoots from frost ; but the plants will flourish best where the winters are mild and moist, such as are experienced at some of our seaside places. They will strike freely from cuttings if these are supplied abundantly with water. HYDROGEN GAS, To Make.—Put some granulated zinc into a bottle, and pour over it a mixture of one part sulphuric acid and five parts water. The gas may be collected by means of a pipe passing through the cork and leading to a pneumatic bladder. HYDROPHOBIA.—See Dogs, Remedies for Bites from. HYSSOP, To Grow.—This hardy aromatic plant may be raised either from seed sown in spring, by slips and cuttings of the young shoots, taken in April, May, and June, or by bottom off-sets, planted six to twelve inches apart, or on an edging. HYSTERICS.—The German domestic remedy for hysteria is to take the fresh and finely-powdered fruit of the caraway plant, mix them with a small quantity of ginger and salt, spread them on bread and butter, and partake of them twice daily, in the morning and just before bed-time. A fit of hysterics may be prevented by the administration of thirty drops of laudanum and as many of ether. ICE IN SUMMER, To Procure.—Nearly fill a half gallon bottle with water, add an ounce of rectified nitre, cork closely, and let it down into a deep well of water for about four hours, by which time the liquid will be completely frozen. The bottle must be broken to procure the block of ice. ICE PUDDING, An Economical.—Moisten three ounces of rice flour with milk and pour on a pint of boiling milk ; pour it into a saucepan, and stir till it boils. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with three ounces of pounded white sugar. Pour the boiling rice and milk amongst the eggs, stirring all the time. When cold, beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add an ounce of citron peel, chopped very fine. Mix all together, add any flavouring liked, and put it into the freezer. Press into a mould, or serve in ice-pails. ICE, The Capacity of.—Ice two inches thick will bear infantry ; four inches, cavalry with light guns ; six inches, heavy field guns ; and eight inches, heavy siege guns with one thousand pounds weight to the square inch. INDIAN CHUNAM for Outer Walls.—Slake with water equal quantities of lime, pit-sand, and powdered flint; beat well together, and let the mixture stand for three or four days, then moisten and mix it with oil, mucilage, the whites of eggs, and butter-milk, and apply as quickly as possible. INDIAN PUDDING.—Wash and dry six or eight ounces of rice, put it into a deep dish and moisten it with milk ; set it in a gentle oven ; add milk at intervals, in small quantities, until the grain is swollen to its full size, and is tender, but dry ; then mix with it two dessert-spoonfuls of97 caster sugar and a cupful of cream. Fill the dish almost to the brim with fruit properly sugared, heap the rice over it, leaving it rough, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Apples and other hard fruit require stewing with the sugar before being added to the rice. INDIAN PUDDING, Another Way of Making.—Mix with one quart of boiling milk a cupful of maize, three ounces of treacle, one ounce of butter, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, and a little salt ; stir in a cupful of cold water, pour into a buttered dish, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. INDIAN SYRUP.—Pour half a gallon of boiling water on to two pounds and a half of loaf sugar and one ounce of citric acid. When cold add half a dram of essence of lemon and half as much of spirits of wine. Stir well and pour it into a bottle. Two tablespoonfuls in a glass of cold water makes a refreshing summer drink. INDIARUBBER AND GUTTA PERCHA, To Dissolve.— Indiarubber and gutta percha may be dissolved by soaking them in iiquid sulphuret of carbon, in wood naphtha, or in benzine. Great caution must be exercised that no naked light is brought near these liquids. INDIGESTION, Remedy for.—Infusion of columba, six ounces ; carbonate of potass, one dram ; compound tincture of gentian, three drams. Mix. Dose: Three tablespoonfuls each day an hour before dinner. The juice of a lemon taken immediately after the principal meal of the day is also beneficial. INFANTS, Relaxing Medicine for.—If found necessary to relax the bowels quickly give from one to two teaspoonfuls (according to age) of castor oil in warm water ; but for an occasional aperient Turkey rhubarb is preferable. For an infant give from ten to twelve grains, and for a child three years old fifteen or sixteen grains. INFANTS, The Teething of.—The teeth usually begin to appear in a child when it is seven months old. The two front ones in the lower jaw are invariably the first cut, then the two corresponding ones in the upper jaw, and so on. The dog teeth immediately follow the front ones, and these are succeeded by the grinders, a complete set of first teeth numbering sixteen in all. Should a rash break out on the face or head ; or behind the ears during teething, wash the part with warm water, dry, and dust with oatmeal or violet powder. Gently rubbing the gums with the finger will greatly assist the tooth in forcing its way through the flesh, but if they become red and swollen, and convulsions are feared, it is advisable to have them lanced. INFANTS, To Feed.—A newly born baby thrives best upon breast milk, which should be supplied every two or three hours in the day and about three times during the night. After a few weeks three meals a day only is neces- sary, and none during the night, as it often occasions gripes. If the mother have not milk enough or cannot suckle the child, give cow’s milk diluted with a third part of warm water and sweetened with loaf-sugar. When the child has been weaned—which should be gradually begun from the first appearance of the teeth—bread and milk, bread pudding, and other light food should be given, but on no account should meat be given until the child has sufficient teeth to masticate it thoroughly. Brown bread is pre- ferable to the white, as the latter generally contains alum, which chemically destroys all the bone-making substance which exists in wheaten flour. INFANTS, To Prevent Convulsions in.—Rub a little dry mustard, once or twice a week, behind the ears or on the back of the neck for five minutes, or until the skin grows very red. This will often prevent an attack of the fit when the child is subject to convulsions. See also Convulsions in Children. 1493 INFLUENZA, To Remove.—Place the feet in hot water, with a blanket spread over the knees, for twenty minutes, then, without stopping to dry them, dab off the majority of the water ; place the feet in a warm blanket at the moment of getting into bed, and drink a glassful of hot lemonade. Or, mix a quarter of a pound of ginger, an ounce: and a half of cayenne pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Dissolve a teaspoonful in a cupful of water, sweeten to taste, and take at bed-time. INK (BLACK), To Make.—Put three quarters of a pound of bruised nutgalls into a gallon of water, let it stand for a couple of days, then add six ounces of copperas, a quarter of a pound of gum-arabic, and six drops of creosote. Let it stand for a fortnight, shaking it up every alternate day ; afterwards let it settle, and pour off the clear liquor for use. INK (BLUE).—Pour on to one ounce of finely powdered Prussian blue two ounces of concentrated hydrochloric acid ; let stand for four-and- twenty hours, then dilute with water to the strength required ; pour it into a thick bottle, and keep closely corked. INK (BLUE MARKING).—Dissolve one dram of crystallised nitrate of silver in three drams of water of ammonia. In another vessel dissolve one dram of crystallised carbonate of soda, a dram and a half of gum-arabic, and thirty grains of sulphate of copper in four drams of dis- tilled water. Mix the two solutions, and apply. INK (COPYING).—To a gallon and a half of water add two pounds of powdered galls, half a pound of sulphate of iron, six ounces of logwood, six ounces of gum, a quarter of a pound of best white sugar, two quarts of vinegar, and a few drops of oil of cloves. Stir it frequently for a fortnight, when it will be ready for use. INK (CRIMSON MARKING).—Dissolve one ounce of nitrate of silver and one ounce and a half of carbonate of soda in crystals, separ- ately, in distilled water ; then mix the solutions, collect and wash the precipitate, and, while still moist, put it into a stone mortar, add to it two drams forty grains of tartaric acid, and rub together till effervescence has ceased ; dissolve six grains of carmine in six ounces of liquor ammonia (882), and add to it the tartrate of silver, then mix in six drams of white sugar and ten drams of powdered gum-arabic, and add as much distilled water as will make six ounces. INK (FADED), To Restore.—Dip the writing in a weak solution of prussiate of potash, slightly acidulated with muriatic acid, observing so to apply the liquid as to prevent the ink spreading. Manuscripts rendered illegible by age may also be restored by moistening them, by means of a feather, with an infusion of galls. Dipping the paper in water containing sulphuret of ammonia, or ex- posing it to the vapour of that substance, will likewise achieve the object. INK FOR BOOK COVERS (QUICK DRYING).—Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gum-arabic in sufficient acetic acid to make a thin mucilage, and then add one ounce of beeswax, a quarter of an ounce of Brown’s japan, half an ounce of asphaltum varnish, and one pound of woodcut ink. INK FOR GARDEN LABELS.—Dissolve ten grains of chloride of platinum in two ounces of rain water. Apply with a quill pen. A cheap fluid for bright zinc may be made as follows:—Mix in an earthen mortar two ounces of verdigris, two ounces of sal ammoniac, an ounce of lampblack, and a pint of water. Shake well before using. A wooden spatula should be used in mixing the above ingredients.99 INK FOR TICKET WRITING.—To a gill of ordinary writing Ink, add half an ounce of gum ; set it in a warm place, and shake it up occasionally till it is well mixed. INK (GOLD), To Prepare.—Grind with a muller upon a porphyry slab some gold leaves with white honey till they become reduced to the finest possible division. Collect the paste with a knife or spatula, put it into a large glass and diffuse through water. The gold will then fall to the bottom, while the honey will dissolve in the water, which must be decanted off. Wash the sediment repeatedly till it is entirely free from the honey. The powder, when dried, is very brilliant. When required for use, mix the gold dust with a little gum-water, and when the writing is dry burnish it with a wolf’s tooth. INK (INDESTRUCTIBLE).—Dissolve twenty grains of sugar in thirty grains of water and add a few drops of concentrated sulphuric acid. Upon heating the mixture the sugar becomes carbonised, and when applied to the paper leaves a coating of carbon which cannot be w'ashed off. The stain is rendered more permanent by the action of the acid upon the paper, and resists the action of chemical agents. INK (JAPAN). —Boil half a pound of Aleppo galls and a quarter of a pound of logwood chips in six quarts of water till reduced to half the quantity ; strain, and add a quarter of a pound of copperas, a quarter of a pound of gum-arabic, an ounce of sugar, half an ounce of blue vitriol (sulphate of copper), and half an ounce of sugar-candy ; stir till dissolved ; strain clear, and put into a bottle. INK (MARKING).—Dissolve in a glass mortar one dram of nitrate of silver (lunar caustic) in double its weight of clear water. This forms the ink. Then dissolve in another vessel one dram of salts of tartar in one ounce of water. Wet the linen with this latter liquid, let it dry, and afterwards write on the part with the ink. Or, dissolve a dram and a half of nitrate of silver in three-quarters of an ounce of water ; add as much of the strongest ammonia water as will dis- solve the precipitate formed on its first addition, then further add one dram and a half of mucilage, and colour with a little sap green. Writing executed with this ink turns black on being passed over a hot Italian iron. INK (MARKING), To Remove.—Steep the marked portion of the linen in a solution of one ounce of potassium and four ounces of water. The stain will be obliterated in a few hours. After the ink is removed the linen must be thoroughly cleansed, as the potassium is highly poisonous. INK (PERPETUAL), For Tombstones, &c.—Melt over the fire three pounds of pitch, then add one pound of lampblack ; mix well. Apply to the marble while in a melted state. INK POWDER, For Travellers.—Powdered nutgalls, six ounces ; powdered green vitriol, four ounces ; powdered gum-arabic, one ounce and a half ; salt, three-quarters of an ounce. Mix, and keep perfectly dry. When required, add a spoonful of hot water to a little of the powder. INK (PRINTERS’).—Boil linseed oil to a proper consistence and tenacity and add lampblack to produce the required colour. For red ink substitute vermilion in lieu of lampblack. INK (PRINTERS’ COLOURED), To Mix.—Grind the colours to a fine powder upon an iron slab, and mix it to the required consistence with printers’ varnish, which may be made by boiling linseed oil and adding thereto some yellow resin ; or, for fine ink, Canadian balsam of the consis- tence of honey may be used. Care must be taken that the colour is thoroughly incorporated with the varnish, for upon this depends the quality of the work produced. Where certain tints are required they may be obtained by the addition of flake white. If desired to darken certain of the100 colours a very small portion of printers’ black ink may be added ; but this must never be amalgamated with such colours as red, magenta, &c., as it would so alter the shades as to spoil them completely. INK (RED), A Cheap.—Boil together slowly for one hour in an enamelled vessel two ounces of Brazil wood, half a pint of diluted acetic acid, and a quarter of an ounce of alum ; strain, and add half an ounce of ground gum. INK (SCARLET), To Makea Good.—Dissolve ten grains of pure carmine in an ounce and a half of liquor ammonia, and add ten grains of gum-arabic. INK (SILVER), To Prepare.—Silver ink, for writing upon cards or for other artistic work may be made from silver leaf in precisely the same manner as directed for preparing gold ink. INK (SYMPATHETIC).—A weak solution of chloride or nitrate of cobalt makes a good yet simple sympathetic ink. To render it legible hold it before the fire, and to erase it submit it to moist air. The most curious, perhaps, of the many invisible inks that are made is that prepared from cobalt. Dissolve some zaffre in muriatic acid till the acid extracts the metallic part of the cobalt, which gives to the zaffre its blue colour. Then dilute the solution, which is very acrid, with common water, w'hen it is fit for use. The writing may be made to appear and reappear at pleasure by submitting it to heat ; as the paper cools the writing fades away, but it may be made visible again by holding it to the fire. The paper must not be over-heated, or the characters will become perma- nent. INK, To Prevent the Moulding of.—A little spirits of wine and oil of cloves added to the ink before it is boiled, or a few cloves placed in a bottle of cold ink will prevent it becoming mouldy. INK SPOTS FROM BOARDS, to Remove.—An application of strong muriatic acid or spirits of salt, afterwards scrubbing the part with soap and water, will effectually remove ink stains from floors, &c. INK SPOTS FROM COLOURED ARTICLES, To Remove. —Soak the spots in a saucer of milk until they are very faint, then rub, and rinse in cold water. This will generally remove ink from such articles as would be ruined by the application of acids. A teaspoonful of oxalic acid mixed with a teacup of hot water may be rubbed upon such articles as possess fast colours. INSECT POWDER.—Fresh green pennyroyal, powdered and sprinkled about, will be found effectual in keeping away moths, cock- roaches Scc. INSECTS ON PLANTS, To Destroy.—Dredge the leaves and young shoots with powdered sulphur ; or apply to the stems and branches a thin mixture of oil of turpentine and soap. INSECTS, To Destroy the Eggs of.—Put into about four gallons of water half a pound of tobacco, half a pound of sulphur, and a quarter of a peck of lime ; stir well together, leave to settle, and syringe the in- fected trees or walls with the clear liquid. More water may be poured upon the sediment when the first is all used. INSECTS, To Extract the Stings of.—Press the barrel of a watch kev over the sting, which will expose it, when it may readily be removed with the fingers or a small pair of tweezers, and cover the part stung with a piece of lint soaked in extract of lead. INSECTS, To Prevent Attacks of.—A little turpentine rubbed on the skin will effectually prevent attacks from insects. INTEREST, To Calculate.—Multiply the pounds by the number of days for which it is required to ascertain the interest ; this sum, dividedIOI by 365 will give the interest in shillings at five per cent. The other rate* of interest are easily calculated by adding to, or deducting from, the five per cent, product. Thus, two-and-a-half per cent, would be just the half of the product of the five per cent. ; three per cent, would be six-tenths; three-and-a-half per cent, seven-tenths, and four per cent, four-fifths ; while six per cent, requires six-fifths to be added, six-and-a-quarter one-fourth, seven-and-a-half one half, and so on. IODINE LOTION.—Tincture of iodine, half a fluid ounce; iodide of iron, twelve grains ; chloride of antimony, half an ounce. Mix, and apply with a camel's hair brush. Used for corns and swellings in the neck. IODINE WASH.—Dissolve three grains of iodine in two table- spoonfuls of spirits of wine, then add to it a pint of water. Used for scrofulous sores. IRISES.—Sow in a light sandy soil, allowing six or seven inches every way between the bulbs. They should be taken up every second or third year, as soon as the foliage is withered, laid aside till sufficiently dry to remove the offsets, and replanted in September. IRISH STEW.—Carve into cutlets about three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the chine bone, and trim the fat; season the cutlets well with pepper and salt, and put them with the bones into a stew-pan, just covering them with cold water; stew gently for half an hour, remove from the fire, skim the fat from the gravy, and then return it with the chops into the stew-pan ; add six or eight potatoes cut into halves, four onions sliced, a couple of turnips, and a pint and a half of stock or water ; cover the stew-pan, and simmer gently for two hours. Serve with the potatoes in the centre of the dish, the cutlets arranged all round, and with the onions and gravy poured over. IRON AND STEEL, To Clean.—Mix into a paste two parts fine emery powder and one part soft soap. Rub the polished iron or steel with the mixture, and finish off with whiting and wash-leather. IRON AND STEEL, To Preserve from Rust. See Rust. IRON AND STEEL, To Remove Rust from. See Rust. IRON (CAST), To Render it Less Brittle.—This maybe accom- plished by putting the iron into a very hot furnace, and allowing it gradu- ally to grow cold. IRON CEMENT, for Stopping Leaks. See Cement To Unite Iron. IRON (CORROSION OF), To Prevent.—A writer in a scientific journal gives the following:—“I invite all parties interested in preventing the corrosion of iron to give the following composition a trial. It will be found an excellent substitute for copper sheathing. Melted pitch, six pounds ; linseed oil, half a pound; brick dust, five ounces ; finely pulver- ised iron filings, five ounces ; ashes, six ounces. Mix. Apply one coat, and when dry apply a second. If any rough timber is coated with this composition (taking care previously to wash it over with glue), it will resist the effects of fire for upwards of five hours !" IRON, Ebony Black for.—Mix four ounces of iron rust with a gallon of strong vinegar ; let it stand for a week, and then add a pound of dry lampblack and three-quarters of a pound of copperas, and stir it occasionally for a couple of days. Lay five or six coats upon the iron with a sponge, allowing each to dry between. Polish with linseed oil and a soft woollen rag. IRON, HORNS, OR HOOFS, To Mend.—Melt over a slow fire in a tin-lined vessel, one part of coarsely-powdered gum-ammoniac and two parts of gutta percha cut into pieces the size of a hazel nut, stirring102 constantly till they are thoroughly mixed. Before applying, all grease must be carefully removed from the articles to be mended by the application of sal ammoniac, or ether. Will keep good for years. IRON MOULD, To Remove.—Ink spots and ironmould may be removed from linen in the following manner .’—Stretch the linen tightly over a basin containing boiling water ; wet the stain with water, and then apply a little salts of lemon. When the spot has disappeared wash the article in clear water. IRON OR STEEL, To Impart Different Hues to.—To impart a blue to burnished iron or steel, lay it upon a clear charcoal fire, blow it lightly until a blue colour is perceived upon the metal; after this allow it to remain in the fire for a short time, and then remove it. Or first heat the metal and then rub it over with a cloth dipped in ground indigo and tem- pered with salad oil. This latter is more suitable for large work, such as the barrels of rifles, &c. ; the former does better for small articles, such as daggers. A dark hue may be obtained by cleaning and polishing the metal and rubbing it over with a piece of woollen material dipped in salad oil. A fine transparent reddish colour may be given by first polishing the iron, making it hot, and rubbing it over with some purified dragon's blood. IRONS (RUSTY), To Restore.—Rusty flat irons may be restored to their original smoothness by rubbing them over with beeswax and lard. IRON, To Join.—File one side of each piece bright, put on the bright part a paste made of borax and water, tie the two pieces together with several separate coils of brass wire, and rub some of the borax paste over these. Hold it over a bright coke fire until the brass melts and runs into the joint, which will be known by the blue flame which rises. IRON, To Unite.—Take four-fifths of dry plaster of Paris, and add thereto one-fifth of iron filings ; now add sufficient water to make it of the consistence of thick cream, and apply as quickly as possible, as it soon sets. IRRITATING LINIMENT.—Spirits of turpentine, one ounce ; olive oil, one ounce and a half; tincture of cayenne, half an ounce ; croton oil, a quarter of an ounce. Used to produce eruptions and to assuage pain. IRRITATING PLASTER.—Burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound ; beeswax, a quarter of a pound ; tar, half a pound ; Venice turpen- tine, a quarter of an ounce. Melt over a slow fire, taking care that it does not boil or splash over. When cold, mix with half an ounce of cayenne. Spread on linen, and apply. Used for ulcers and old sores. ISINGLASS, To Detect Adulteration by Gelatine.—Drop a few threads of the substance into vinegar. The pure isinglass will swell an4 become like jelly, while the gelatine will become hard. Or, place a small quantity in cold water. The pure will become cloudy and white, while the adulteration will become jelly-like and clear. ISINGLASS, To Melt.—To a quarter of a pound of isinglass take rather over a pint of water, into which throw the twelfth part of the white of an egg ; beat the water till it becomes white, throw the isinglass into the water, and place it over a very slow fire to melt. ITALIAN PUDDING.—Line a dish with puff-paste, pour in a pint of cream, add sufficient tin-bread or French rolls to thicken it, a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel, sugar, eight or ten well-beaten eggs, a dozen sliced apples, and a couple of glasses of red wine. Bake for one hour in a moderate oven. ITCH, Lotions for.—Hydriodate of potash, two drams; distilled water, eight ounces. Apply frequently.103 Equal parts of lime-water and linseed oil will also allay the irritation. Or, after washing the body in warm water, apply the following :—Lime, two ounces ; sulphur-vivum, two ounces. Mix. Pour off the clear liquid for use. ITCH, Remedy for.—Flowers of brimstone, two ounces ; carbonate of potash, two drams; lard, four ounces. Mix, and add two or three drops of essence of lemon. Should the brimstone be considered unpleasant, use in its stead two ounces of white hellebore powder. To be rubbed into the body. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Black.—Boil the article for some time in a strained decoction of logwood, and then steep it in a solution of persulphate or acetate of iron. For common purposes it may simply be steeped in ink till the desired depth of colour is obtained. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Blue.—If the articles be steeped in a solution of sulphate of indigo or soluble Prussian blue, they will acquire a blue tint, the depth of which will, of course, depend upon the strength of the bath and the time they are allowed to be immersed. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Green.—Boil in a solution of verdigris in vinegar until the desired colour is obtained. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Purple.—Mix two parts of nitric acid with one part of sal ammoniac, and steep the article therein until the proper hue is obtained. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Red.—First imbue the article with a solution of nitromuriate of tin, then put it into a bath of Brazil wood and cochineal. If a scarlet dye is required, use lac-dye ; and if a cherry red be wanted, first dye it scarlet, and then plunge it into a solution of potash. IVORY, HORN, AND BONE, To Stain Yellow.—Steep the article for some time, first in a solution of sugar of lead, and afterwards in a solution of chromate of potassium. IVORY ORNAMENTS, To Clean.—Scrub the articles with a soft brush in soap and water, and stand them in the sunshine to dry. As soon as all moisture has disappeared, throw some soapsuds over them, and dry as before. Repeat the operation for two or three days, when a final washing will remove all discolouration. Where time is a consideration, or at such seasons when the sun has but little power, the ornaments may be bleached by immersing them for a short time in water containing a little sulphurous acid or chloride of lime—about one pound of lime to a quart of water. IVORY, To Polish.—Scour it with the finest sand-paper, then moisten some whiting with oil, and apply with a piece of smooth flannel, rubbing it well, and finish off with a slightly oiled linen rag. IVORY, To Render it Soft and Flexible.—Place the ivory in a solution of phosphoric acid of 1*30 specific gravity, and let it remain until it assumes a transparent aspect ; then remove it from the acid, wash it in clear water, and dry it in a soft linen cloth. It will thus become as soft as thick leather, will harden in the open air, but will again become soft by immersing it in warm water. IVORY, To Whiten.—Discoloured ivory may be restored by boiling it for one hour in a saturated solution of alum in water ; then take it out and carefully wipe it with a hair cloth, to prevent its cracking. It should not, however, be wiped quite dry, or the object will be defeated. It may likewise be restored to its former whiteness by cleaning it with powdered burnt pumice-stone and water, and afterwards placed under glass in the rays of the sun.104 IXIA.—This lovely genus of delicate and brilliant flowers flourish best in the greenhouse. Plant the bulbs during October in a mixture of peat-earth, leaf-mould, and light sandy loam, slightly enriched with thoroughly rotted dung, putting a stratum of small shingle at the bottom of the pots. The bulbs may remain undisturbed for two years, but the pots must be placed in a dry situation as soon as the bloom has gone off. A wet subsoil is fatal to them at all times. Seedlings generally flower in their third year. JACK, To Choose, See.—If fresh the gills will be red, the eyes bright, and the flesh firm and stiff. The best are those caught in rivers ; those inhabiting ponds are not so good in flavour. Being a very dry fish it requires to be stuffed and served with sauce in the same manner as pike. JAM (APPLE). —Half fill a jar with water, cut some apples into quarters, remove the cores, and fill up the jar with the apples, tie a paper over the top, and put into a slow oven. When quite soft, pulp them through a sieve, and to each pound of pulp add three-quarters of a pound of pre- serving sugar, and boil gently until it jellies. Put into jars, and tie down in the usual way. In a dry place it will keep three or four years. JAM (APRICOT, GREENGAGE, OR PLUM).—Remove the stones from the fruit, cut away any blemishes, put them over a slow fire with half a pint of water, and when scalded rub them through a hair sieve. To every pound of pulp add one pound of sifted loaf sugar ; put it in a preserving-pan over a brisk fire, and when it boils take off the scum, throw in the kernels and half an ounce of blanched bitter almonds. Boil quickly for fifteen minutes, stirring it all the time; remove it from the fire, pour into pots, and when cold cover and tie down. JAM (BLACKBERRY).- -Gather the fruit when it is dry, and for each pound allow half a pound of sugar. Boil together gently for an hour, or till the berries are soft, stirring and mashing them thoroughly. Pour into pots. When cold cover the jam with a paper dipped in brandy, and tie down with a bladder. JAM (CHERRY). —Stone eight pounds of cherries, and press them through a sieve. Boil a pint of raspberry juice with two pounds of loaf sugar, and while boiling add the cherries and another pound of sugar. Let the whole boil together quickly for half an hour ; pour into jars, and cover in the usual way. JAM (GOOSEBERRY). —Choose ripe, red, rough gooseberries, remove the stalks and crops ; put them into a preserving-pan, and, as they warm, stir, and press out the juice. Boil them ten minutes, then to each pound of fruit add three-quarters of a pound of preserving sugar. Let the whole boil slowly for two hours, stirring constantly to prevent its burning. When it thickens and is jelly-like on a plate when cold, it is done enough. Pour it into pots, and let it stand a day before covering it over. JAM (GRAPE). —Stew the grapes to a soft pulp, strain ; then add to them their own weight of sugar; boil slowly for nearly half an hour, stirring well from time to time. JAM (GREENGAGE).—Peel the fruit, remove the stones, and to each pound add three-quarters of a pound of sugar ; boil for half an hour, and add a little lemon juice just before removing the jam from the fire. JAM (RASPBERRY).—Weigh the fruit and add three-quarters of the weight of sugar ; put the raspberries into a preserving-pan, boil, and break them up, stir constantly, and cause the fruit to boil very quickly for one hour ; then add the sugar and simmer for half an hour. In this way the jam is superior in colour and flavoivr to that which is made by putting the sugar in first.io5 JAM (RHUBARB).—Take two pounds and a half of peeled rhubarb, and cut it into pieces about an inch long. Put it on a large flat dish, sprinkle over one pound of centrifugal sugar, and set it away in a cool place for twelve hours, then pour off the liquid. Tie up in muslin four cloves, and one inch of cinnamon stick, or three-quarters of an ounce of ginger slightly crushed ; put this into a preserving-pan with one pound of the crystallised sugar, and a bit of soda the size of a Spanish nut ; boil till it becomes a thick syrup covered with large bubbles, and when, on rubbing it with a spoon on the side of the pan, it will grain. Take out the seasoning, put in the rhubarb, and boil gently for twenty minutes or half an hour. Take up a little and let it cool ; if thick and clear, it is done. Pour it into jars, and tie down at once with vegetable parchment. The jam should be of a pale green. Rhubarb jam will not keep so long as most others, as the fruit is more liable to fermentation. JAM (STRAWBERRY).—Strip the stalks off and weigh the fruit, then put it into a preserving-pan and boil quickly for half an hour, stirring it during the whole time with a wooden spoon, but so as not to bruise it. The addition of one pound of red currant juice to every four pounds of strawberries will be found a great improvement. Then add to every pound of fruit three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and boil up quickly for about twenty minutes, or until a skin appears on the surface when it cools. Stir the jam gently, but quickly, until it is cooked, and remove the scum as it is thrown up. Pour into clean, dry jars, cover the tops with brandied papers, and tie down closely. JAM PUFFS.—Cut the paste into squares the thickness of a patty case, put a little jam in the middle, fold one side of the crust over the other and press the edges together with the thumbs, keeping the middle nicely raised ; egg the tops, bake, and glaze them. JASMINE, To Cultivate.—The common sweet scented, white- flowered jasmine is a very useful and neat climber, but it mav also be trained in a pot as a handsome standard plant. It is propagated either by layers or cuttings. There are also varieties which bear yellow blossoms”, the most hardy of which is the winter jasmine. This is best trained aga:nst a south wall, but will grow in any common light soil. As it blossoms°upon the young wood, the shoots should be encouraged in their growth, but after flowering the side-shoots may be cut back to one or two eyes, keeping the leading shoots trained up the wall. They may be increased by layers or cuttings of partly ripened wood, struck in a warm frame in a mixture of light soil and sand. JAUNDICE, Remedies for.—Pour boiling water upon one ounce of senna, one ounce of camomile flowers, one ounce of ground ginger, and one ounce of powered jalap. Dose : Half a teaspoonful in a small cup of tea once or twice a day. Another useful remedy Put burdock-root and agrimony, of each one ounce, into two quarts of water. Boil down to three pints, and take a wineglassful two or three times a day. Take one pennyworth of allspice' and the same amount of flowers of brimstone and turmeric. Pound together, and mix them with half a pound of treacle. Two tablespoonfuls to be taken every day. JEAN SLIPPERS (WHITE), To Clean.—Place the slippers upon a boot-tree, or cram them full of wadding or other soft materials, to prevent creases ; scrub them with soap and water, using as little water as possible to remove the dirt ; then mix some pipeclay with water to the con- sistence of a rather thick paste, and with a flannel rub it well into the slippers. Hang them up, and when dry beat out the superfluous clay with Vhe hand and rub them till they are smooth. 15io6 If the kid is not much soiled rub it with a piece of flannel dipped in hartshorn and white curd soap. JELLIES (FRUIT), Hints on.—All jellies made from red frute must be worked cold, and be placed upon ice as soon as possible. Tin moulds should never be used, as they change the colour into a dirty blue and spoil the taste of the fruit ; earthen moulds preserve both colour and taste. The isinglass is best clarified while it is melting, as by adopting this plan there is less waste and the jellies are brighter. JELLY (APPLE).—Take about two dozen apples, pare and core them, and boil in a pint and a half of water till quite tender ; strain the liquor, and to every pint add a pound of fine sugar, a little cinnamon, and a few drops of lemon juice. Boil to a jelly. JELLY (ARROWROOT).—Make a paste with a tablespoonful of arrowroot and cold water ; add to it a pint of boiling water in which a little lemon peel has been boiled ; stir briskly, pour it into a saucepan and boil for a few minutes. A glass of sherry may be added with a little sugar ; or, for infants, a couple of drops of essence of caraway seed or cinnamon may be substituted. This simple jelly is very nourishing. JELLY (BREAD), or Panada.—Pour into boiling water a glass of sherry, add a bit of lemon peel, grated nutmeg, and bread crumbs; sweeten with sugar, and boil the whole of the ingredients together over a quick fire. This last injunction must be carefully followed, otherwise the panada will break instead of jellying. JELLY (BLACKBERRY).—Boil two quarts of blackberries in two quarts of water, bruising the berries with a wooden spoon ; strain through a fine linen bag, and boil the syrup for five minutes ; then to each pint of juice add a pound of sugar ; boil for a quarter of an hour, remov- ing the scum as it rises ; pour into pots, cover with brandy papers, and tie down. JELLY (BLACK CURRANT).—Put the fruit into a preserving- pan with a little water, and when the currants are hot through, press them little by little until all the juice is extracted ; measure the juice, and for each pint allow one pound of sugar ; mix, and boil gently for ten minutes, stirring continually ; pour into moulds, and cover with paper soaked with brandy. JELLY (CALVES’ FEET).—Clean, prepare, and boil two feet in a gallon of water for eight hours, removing the scum as it rises. When sufficiently tender, strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and let it remain undisturbed till the next day ; then remove the fat and wipe the jelly dry with a cloth. Next dissolve the jelly and stir into it a wineglassful of good old sherry or two tablespoonfuls of pale brandy. Beat up the whites and crush the shells of three eggs into three-quarters of a pint of cold spring water. Stir this liquid into the jelly, and allow it to simmer for fifteen minutes ; after this, let it settle for five minutes, then strain. A pinch of isinglass added to the shells and whites of the eggs will give the jelly a greater substance. JELLY (CHERRY).—Take the stones from four pounds of cherries, add two pounds of red currants ; press the juice out through a canvas bag, then put it into a saucepan with two pounds of crushed sugar and an ounce of isinglass, and boil slowly for fifteen minutes, removing the scum as it rises ; finally, run it through the jelly bag. JELLY (CRYSTAL).—Rub off the essence from the rinds of two lemons upon lumps of sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, and crush the shells. Simmer over the fire an ounce and a half of isinglass, dissolved in a pint of water, adding the sugar, eggs, &c., and half a pint ol lemon juice, strained. When the jelly has simmered for a few minutes,io7 pour in a pint of maraschino, and simmer a few minutes longer, when it must be allowed to stand without being disturbed before passing it through the jelly bag. If not clear the first time return it to the bag—it should in the end be like crystal. It will require from ten to twelve ounces of sugar to sweeten this jelly. JELLY (GOOSEBERRY).—This is made like black currant jelly with the exception that no water is put to the gooseberries. Press firmly so as to obtain all the juice. If desired, the skins may be removed by passing the mass through a colander. The remains of the pulp may be made into jam. JELLY (GRAPE).—Dissolve some isinglass, and express the juice from ripe grapes. Mix together equal quantities of the articles, sweeten to taste, and add a glass or two of Madeira wine ; strain, and put into moulds. JELLY, Green Colouring for.—Boil some spinach leaves, with a spoonful or two of water to keep them from burning, express the juice, and boil it in a cupful of water, to take away its strong flavour. JELLY (HARTSHORN).—To two quarts of water add half a pound of hartshorn shavings ; simmer down to half the quantity ; strain, and boil it with the rinds of two lemons and four oranges ; when cool, add the juice of the lemons and oranges, the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth and half a pound of sugar ; boil the jelly three or four times without Stirring, and strain through a jelly bag. JELLY (ICELAND MOSS).—Steep three-quarters of an ounce of Iceland moss in cold water for two hours ; then put it into a saucepan with a quart of water, and simmer it down to half a pint; sweeten with sugar, and add a little lemon juice. This jelly relieves the hard breathing of oersons suffering from consumption, and afso allays the cough and tends to strengthen the system. JELLY (INVALIDS’).—Take an ounce each of sago, pearl barley and hartshorn shavings, and put them into three pints of water; simmer to one-third of the quantity, then strain. When cold it will be a jelly, of which give, dissolved in milk, wine, or broth, in change with other nourishment. JELLY (ISINGLASS).—Boil two ounces of isinglass in half a gallon of water, with one ounce of cloves and the top crust of a loaf. When reduced to half the quantity, sweeten with sugar. This jelly is very strengthening, and mav be taken in wine, milk, or other liquids. JELLY (LEMON).—This is made in the same way as orange jelly, with the exception that being more acid a greater quantity of sugar is required. Each lemon should be smelt before it is used, as one musty one would spoil the flavour. JELLY (MADEIRA WINE).—Tins jelly is made exactly like that of calves’ feet. When the jelly is nearly clarified pour into the stew- pot containing the calves’ feet a bottle or two of Madeira and half a bottle of brandy. This keeps good longer than most jellies and is very nourish- ing. JELLY (MARBLE).—Thoroughly oil a mould, and nearly fill it with different coloured jellies, arranging them in lumps like rock-vvotk, then take some cool but still liquefied crystal jelly, run it into the mould, and allow it to set before turning it out. JELLY (MEAT), for Pies.—Put into a saucepan a good-sized piece of beef, a knuckle of veal, two calves’ feet, a couple of onions, with cloves, a bunch of parsley, three or four shalots, bav leaves, and spices Sweat the whole over a slow fire, then moisten with some good broth ; stew very gently for four hours, keeping it closely covered. When done seasonio8 to taste, and clarify by beating into it the whites of eggs. It will keep for some time if put into ice. JELLY (ORANGE).—Peel half a dozen oranges, throw the peel into a little water and stand it on the stove, but do not let it boil. Squeeze the juice of the oranges through a sieve into an earthen pan, then pour the infusion of the peel through the sieve. Put a pound of sugar in a pan ; pour a drop of the white of an egg into a pint of water, whip it till it gets white, and add it to the sugar. Set it over the fire, and when a froth rises put in a little more water; skim frequently, and when it bubbles pour in the juice of the fruit; stir together, without allowing it to boil; skim well, pass through a jelly bag, and add isinglass. This jelly must not be made too firm. A little brandy is sometimes added, but it is questionable whether it is improved thereby. JELLY (PEAR).—Boil some French pears to a pulp, then add their weight in sugar, and boil again for twenty minutes, or tiil it is thick enough ; put into jars, and cover in the usual manner. JELLY (RASPBERRY).—Put the fruit into a pan with some sugar, stir them together, and let them lay for an hour, then add a little water ; put the whole into a jelly bag, and mix cold isinglass with the juice. Care must be taken not to bruise the seeds of the fruit, as this would detract from the clearness of the jelly. JELLY, Red Colouring for.—Take one scruple of finely-powdered cochineal and two drams of cream of tartar, and boil them very slowly for thirty minutes in half a pint of water. JELLY (RED CURRANT), To Make.—When the currants are fully ripe pick them on a fine dry day, and put them in a preserving-pan over a slow fire. As the juice comes away, pour it off, or it will waste. When all the juice has been gathered, strain through flannel, to take away the thickness ; then to every pint of juice put a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar, broken small. Put the whole in a preserving-pan over a brisk fire and boil for about ten minutes, removing the scum as it rises ; then drop a small quantity on a cold plate; if it jellies it is done, if not boil it till it does. Pour it into pots or glasses, and let it stand for a couple of days, then put paper dipped in brandy on the top of the jelly, and tie skins over the tops of the pots. Keep in a dry place. JELLY (STRAWBERRY).—Put the fruit in a cloth little by little and express the juice, strain it clear, weigh, and stir in an equal weight of powdered sugar, put the whole in a preserving-pan near the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, put the pan over the fire and stir the jelly fre- quently till it boils, clear it carefully from scum, and let it boil briskly for twenty-five minutes. If only a small portion of jelly is required, say two or three pounds, a much less time will suffice. JELLY, White Colouring for.—There is nothing, perhaps, which will give greater satisfaction to the housewife for this purpose than the judicious use of cream. JELLY (WHITE CURRANT).—Strip the fruit from the stalks, put it into a preserving-pan, and when it boils run it quickly through a sieve. To each pint of juice add a pound of double-refined sugar, and let it boil twenty minutes, carefully removing the scum, then pass it through a lawn sieve. JELLY, Yellow Colouring for.—Put a little saffron into a teacup, pour some boiling water upon it, and stand it to draw. The yolks of eggs are sometimes used for the same purpose, but these latter can only be used for opaque jellies. See also LEMON SPONGE.io9 JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES.—These will thrive in almost any soil, and multiply so exceedingly that it is not easy to clear the ground of them again, for the least bit of root will grow. The usual method of propagating them is by means of sets or cuttings of the roots, in the same manner as the potato is multiplied. Plant them in rows a yard asunder, four or five inches deep, and eighteen inches or two feet distance in the rows. They are in perfection in the autumn and throughout the winter, and are good and wholesome boiled and eaten with butter, &c. They bear no resemblance to the artichoke proper, but resemble the potato in growth, their tubers being, however, more irregular in appearance. JET FOR BOOTS AND HARNESS.—Dissolve three sticks of black sealing-wax in half a pint of spirits of wine. Shake well together and apply with a sponge. Keep the jet well corked. JEWELLERY, To Keep it from Tarnishing.—Gold and silver ornaments may be preserved from tarnishing after they have been polished by packing them in boxwood sawdust and excluding the light and air. JOHN DORY, To Carve.—Strike the fish-slice along the backbone, and serve square slices from the thick part A very dainty morsel may be found on the cheek of the fish. JOHN DORY, To Cook.—Although the John Dory is such a hideous-looking fish, its flesh is very delicate. Put the fish into boiling water with slices of lemon over it, and season with salt. Do not let it boil too fast. When done put parsley round it, particularly in the opening of the head, with some finely-scraped horseradish. Serve with lobster sauce. It may also be broiled and sent to table with caper or anchovy sauce. JONQUIL PERFUME.—Mix essence of lemon and essence of bergamot, of each eight parts ; oil of lavender, three parts ; oil of caraway, two parts ; oil of sassafras, one part; and oil of orange, one part. JULEP (EGG), For the Hair.—Beat up the yolk of an egg with half a pint of tepid rain-water, add a little borax in powder, and a tea- spoonful of spirit of camphor. Use instead of soap. JULEP, For Cleansing the Hair.—Mix soft soap with rain-water, add a little borax in powder, and a small quantity of spirit of camphor and oil. JUMBLES, To Make.—Mix one pound of flour and one pound of sugar into a light paste with the whites of eggs well beaten ; add half a pound of butter, one pound of ground almonds, and half a pint of milk. Knead the whole together, form it into thin cakes, and bake in a slow oven. JUNKET (DEVONSHIRE).—Pour some warm milk into a basin, turn it with a little rennet, and add some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon on the top, without breaking the curd. KALE (STEWED).—Trim and wash sea-kale, tie it in bundles, and put it into boiling water with a handful of salt ; boil for ten or twelve minutes, drain it dry, then stew it tender in rich gravy. Send it to table in the gravy. KALE, To Cultivate.—Dig the ground two feet deep, manure it liberally, and sow the seed thinly about the middle of March for a main crop, covering the seed with a little fine earth. A sowing may also be made in the second week in May for transplanting in August. Let the plants of cottagers’ or other large varieties be sown in rows two feet and a half apart, allowing the same distance between each plant. If the weather be dry at the time of transplanting, water occasionally until the plants are established, and keep the ground at all times free from weeds. KALI (LEMON).—Carbonate of soda, five ounces; tartaric acid, five ounces ; loaf sugar, one pound. Reduce the whole to a fine powder,no dry each separately by a gentle heat, then mix them together, flavour with one dram of essence of lemon, rub through a sieve, put into bottles, and keep well corked for use. KALYDOR.—This cosmetic for rendering the complexion clear and free from blotches is made by mixing two drams of tincture of benzoin with one pint of rose-water. Apply with a soft towel. KETCHUP (COCKLE).—Open the shells, and scald the fish in their own liquor. When settled, add a little water, and strain; season with mixed spice, and if for brown sauce, add a little port wine and a few anchovies. KETCHUP (MUSHROOM).—Break up small a number of mushrooms, put them into a pan, sprinkle with salt, and let them lie for several days, stirring them well each day; then let them stand another week without stirring, until a thick scum rises to the top ; strain the liquor, and boil it with ginger, peppercorns, cloves, mustard-seed, and mace tied in a muslin bag. When cold bottle it, leaving the spice in, cork it tight, set it by for three months, then boil it up again, and when cold bottle off and tie down. It will keep good a long while. KETCHUP (OYSTER).—Take a pint of unshelled oysters, wash them in their own liquor, and pound them in a mortar ; strain the liquor and add it to the oysters with a pint of sherry ; boil them up, and add one ounce of salt, two drams of pounded mace, and one dram of cayenne pepper ; boil it up again for a second or two, skim, and rub it through a sieve. When cold pour it into bottles, cork well, and seal the bottles down. KETCHUP (WALNUT).—Beat up in a mortar a hundred green walnuts, and put them into a jar with half a pound of sliced eschalots, a head of garlic, half a pound of salt, and half a gallon of vinegar. Stand them by for a fortnight, stirring them night and morning. Strain off the liquor and boil it for half an hour, adding two ounces of anchovies, two ounces of whole pepper, half ail ounce of cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of mace ; skim it well, strain, and let it stand till cold, then pour it gently from the sediment into bottles. Cork securely, and store in a dry place. The sedi- ment may be used for flavouring sauces. KETTLES (BRASS AND COPPER), To Clean.—The appli- cation of a little salt and vinegar will keep brass and copper kettles clean, and will prevent them becoming deleterious to health. KIDNEY PUDDING.—Cut the kidney in slices, soak it, and season with pepper and salt. Line a basin with suet crust, put in the kidney, cover with paste, tie in a cloth and boil. These puddings are also made with the addition of stcnk. KIDNEYS (BROILED ).—Slice them through the long way, score them, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, run a skewer through them, and broil over a clear fire for ten or twelve minutes, turning them frequently with a fork, but taking care not to allow the prongs to enter them, other- wise the gravy will be lost. KIDNEYS (FRIED).—Put the kidneys into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry them for a quarter of an hour over a brisk fire, and when they are done remove them from the pan, stir into the gravy a spoonful of flour, and when this has browned add as much water as will make a gravy. KNIVES (HANDLES OF), Cement for.—Mix together four parts of resin, one part of beeswax, and one part of fine brick-dust. Fill the apertures of the handles with the mixture, then heat the stocks of the knives and force them into the handles. Directly they are cold they will ba 1 firmly set.Ill KNIVES (HANDLES OF), To Remove Stains from.—If rubbed for a few moments with a piece of wet flannel dipped in table salt, all the stains will quickly disappear. KNOCK-KNEES, To Straighten.—Place a small book between the knees and tie a handkerchief tightly round the ankles ; repeat this two or three times a day, increasing the width of the book at each trial. When in bed lie with the legs crossed and the knees fixed tightly together. KOUMISS.—Fill a strong champagne bottle with mare’s milk,and add one ounce of sugar and a teaspoonful of good yeast. Cork and wire the bottle. Put it into a dark cellar, shaking it occasionally each day. It will be fit to drink on the fifth day, and will keep good for close on three weeks. Open carefully as this spirituous liquor effervesces like champagne. It is of special value in pulmonary consumption. KRINGLES.—Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, and mix with six ounces of warm butter; knead to a paste with a pound of flour and six ounces of sugar ; roll into thick cakes, and bake on tin plates. LACE (BLACK), To Renovate.—Wash the lace lightly in warm water with which bullock’s gall has been incorporated ; rinse in cold water ; then pass it through a weak solution of glue, clap it with the hands until most of the moisture is expressed, and pin it out evenly to dry. LACE (BLOND), To Revive.—Blond lace may be revived by breathing upon it, and then shaking and flapping it. If an iron be used the lace will turn yellow. LACE VEILS, To Clean.—Soap them well and lay them for .wenty-four hours in just enough water to cover them. If they are much discoloured change the water at the expiration of that period and let them soak again, then rinse, immerse them in weak starch water, prick out as evenly as possible, roll them in a towel till they are nearly dry, then press them with a warm iron. LACE (WHITE), To Wash.—Boil some rice to a pulp, then dilute it with warm water, wash the lace therein, and pin it out to dry. This method imparts both clearness and stiffness. LACQUERED GOODS, To Clean. — Warm soap-suds will generally suffice to cleanse these articles, but if they are very dirty the following may be used : Finely-powdered rotten-stone, one ounce ; sweet oil, one teaspoonful ; oxalic acid, two drams, and water sufficient to make into a paste. LACQUER FOR BRASS, A Good.—Seed-lac, dragon’s blood, gamboge, and anotta, of each four ounces ; saffron, one ounce, and spirits of wine, ten pints. LACQUER FOR TINPLATE.—Best alcohol, eight ounces; turmeric, four drams ; hay saffron, two scruples ; dragon’s blood, four scruples; red Sanders, one scruple; shellac, one ounce ; gum-sandarach, two drams ; gum-mastic, two drams ; Canada balsam, two drams ; when dis- solved add eighty drops of spirits of turpentine. LAMB (BREAST OF), To Stew.—Remove the chine-bone, cut the meat into pieces, put it into a stew-pot, cover with gravy, and stew till tender ; thicken the same, add a glass of sherry wine, and serve with stewed mushrooms or boiled cucumbers. LAMB CHOPS OR CU I LETS.—Dip them in bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, a little grated lemon, and the yolk of an egg. Fry slightly brown, and serve with a little brown gravy poured over them. LAMB (FORE-QUARTER OF), To Ragout.—Cut off the knuckle bone and remove all the skin. Lard it with bacon and fry to a nice colour ; then put it in a saucepan, cover with gravy, add sweet herbs,I I 2 and season with mace, pepper, and salt; cover closely and stew for half an hour. Strain off the gravy, remove the fat, and add two dozen oysters, a glass of port, a few mushrooms, and a little butter rolled in flour. Boil together, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour the sauce over the meat. LAMB (FORE-QUARTER OF), To Roast.—This favourite joint is roasted whole or in separate joints. In either case it should be placed before a quick, yet not fierce fire, and at first not be put too close. While roasting baste well with butter. If roasted whole it will take about two hours to cook. When done, separate the shoulder from the ribs, and serve on separate dishes. LAMB (LEG OF), To Boil.—Steep it for half an hour in soft water to which has been added a tablespoonful of vinegar or the same quantity of salt ; wrap it in a thin floured cloth and boil it with a bundle of sweet herbs for about an hour and a half. Garnish with parsley and thin slices of lemon, and serve with French beans or spinach. LAMB (LEG OF), To Force.—Remove as much meat as possible from the wrong side of the joint without cracking the outward skin. Pound the meat together with its weight of suet; add a dozen large English oysters, a couple of anchovies boned, finely-shred parsley, a little thyme, nutmeg, mace, pepper, and salt, mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs. Fill the skin as tightly as possible with the stuffing, sew it up, and roast. LAMB (LEG OF), To Roast.—Put the joint into a saucepan, cover it with water, bring it gently to a boil, then draw it back and let it simmer till it is about half cooked. Directly it is taken out of the water hang it at a distance from the fire, and let it roast gradually, bringing it by degrees closer to the fire. For a leg of five pounds allow an hour and a quarter ; for one of six pounds an hour and a half. LAMB PIE.—Cut some leg of lamb into pieces and season lightly with pepper, salt, cloves, nutmeg, and mace. Line a dish with puff paste, put in the meat with a few sweetbreads, oysters, forcemeat balls, and yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Scatter some lumps of butter over the pie, put on the crust, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a half. Put into a sauce- pan a pint of gravy, the liquor from the oysters, a glass of port, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a little nutmeg. Stir in one direction till it boils, then raise the crust and pour the gravy into the pie. LAMB (QUARTER OF), To Carve.—If sent to table whole, it is there divided into joints and sent to opposite ends. First lay the knife flat and cut off the shoulder. A moment's glance will indicate where to insert the knife. Squeeze a little lemon juice over the divided part, sprinkle with cayenne pepper, and transfer to another dish. Then separate the brisket, or short bones, by cutting lengthways along the breast, and serve from either part as desired. LAMB’S FRY (FRIED).—Put into a dish and pour boiling water over, let stand for a moment, then soak for an hour in vinegar, pepper, and salt, with a shalot and a little parsley ; dip in thick batter, fry to a good colour, and serve with fried parsley. LAMBS FRY (RAGOUT).—Put them into a light braise with a shalot, thin slices of fat ham, sweet herbs, thyme, a bay leaf, pepper, salt, .sufficient broth, and a glass of sherry. Serve with sippets of toast and mint sauce. LAMB’S FRY (FRICASSEE).—Remove the marrow from the small bladders, and mix a little flour, egg, pounded chestnut, rasped lemon, sugar, and cream. Put the fry into paste cases and place them in the oven for a moment or two. Boil the cream mixture a moment beiore filling the bladders with it, and baste them over with eggs and cream.”3 LAMB’S HEAD AND PLUCK, To Dress.—Wash well, remove the black part from the eyes and the gall from the liver. Take out the brains and blanch them by themselves. Put the head and pluck into warm water, and let it boil for fifteen minutes, then take it up, and when cool take out the tongue ; trim and score the head, smear with egg and bread crumbs, and brown it in an oven. Cut the liver, tongue, lights, and heart, into small dice, fry them in some good second stock to a nice light brown with a little chopped parsley and shalot; season with lemon, cayenne pepper, and salt; serve on the dish with the head, and garnish with the brains, egg, and fried bread crumbs. , LAMB’S PLUCK A LA PASCALINE.—Take the head, trotters, liver, lights, &c., bone the head and trotters, set them to disgorge, and blanch them. Cut into small dice one pound of suet and the same weight of bacon, and put them into a stew-pan with half a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, one or two onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, cloves, mace, allspice, two bay leaves, salt and pepper ; add sufficient water to cover the whole, the head, &c., included, and boil for one hour ; then put in the head, lights, &c. When thoroughly done drain, and cover with white Italian sauce thickened with the whites of eggs. LAMB (SHOULDER OF), Roast.—This is best cooked with the fore-quarter ; but if roasted by itself it will take about an hour to do. LAMB (SHOULDER OF), To Braise.—Take out the bone and fill up the gap with forcemeat; braise it over a slow fire for two hours, then take it up and glaze it. Serve with sorrel sauce under the joint. LAMB’S TAIL SOUP.—Cut four lambs’ tails into joints, boil them till they are quite tender. Sweat down a small slice of raw ham and veal, a few mushrooms, an onion, a little parsley, and a blade of mace; dry all well up with flour, and strain through a tammy ; season with cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon ; add a spoonful or two of cream, a glassiul of white wine, and the lambs’ tails, then stir the whole over the fire. LAMB STEAKS, To Dress Brown. —Dip them into the yolk of egg, and then into chopped parsley, seasom-d with grated lemon peel, nut- meg, pepper, and salt, and fry them over a quick fire ; then thicken some good gravy with butter and flour, add a spoonful of port wine and a dozen oysters ; boil the gravy up, and when hot serve. LAMB STEAKS, To Dress White.— Put them into equal quantities of milk and water with a little dried lemon peel, mace, pepper, and salt; stew until very tender. Afterwards put the steaks into veal gravy, with a cupful of cream and a little flour ; stir together till nice and hot, and just before dishing up put in a few white mushrooms. LAMB, To Choose.—In choosing the fore-quarter examine the large vein in the neck ; if it is of a bluish colour the meat is fresh, but if it is green it is stale. In the hind-quarter the kidney is the best test, as this has a slight smell when not perfectly fresh ; the knuckle should be nice and firm. Grass lamb is in season from Easter to Michaelmas, house lamb from Christmas to Lady Day. Both are favourite dishes, but perhaps the latter is more generally esteemed. LAMB, To Fricassee.—Cut the meat into pieces, put it into a sauce- pan, season with salt and pepper, mace, and nutmeg ; add a large piece of butter, a dozen oysters with their liquor, a bunch of sweet herbs, and enough water to cover the whole. Stew till the meat is tender, then dish. Thicken the gravy with a little flour ; strain; add the yolks of two eggs and a spoonful of cream. Serve the gravy with the meat. LAMPBLACK FOR PAINTING, To Prepare.—Take some common lampblack ; put it over the fire on an iron plate, and when itceases to emit smoke (being then free from the oily substance it originally contained) it is ready for immediate use. LAMPREYS (STEWED).—Clean the fish, remove the cartilage which passes down the back, season with cloves, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and pepper ; cover with good gravy, and stew till tender. After removing the fish, boil up the liquor with three or four anchovies and a little butter rubbed in flour; strain the gravy, and add the juice of a lemon, a little mustard, and a glass of port or sherry wine. Serve with horseradish and sippets of bread. LAMPREYS, To Dress.—Extract the bone, and rub the inside with finely-chopped sage, parsley, and mixed spices ; then bind the fish up with broad tape, and boil it for three-quarters of an hour in salt and water, with a couple of bay leaves. Add to the water in which the fish has been boiled a pint of vinegar, a little whole pepper, and some knotted marjoram or thyme ; boil it for twelve minutes ; untie the fish, cut it in good slices, and put it into the liquor. Send to table garnished with parsley. It improves both the fish and the liquor to let them stand ten or twelve hours before they are served. LARD, To Detect Adulteration of.—If adulteration be suspected, take a small portion of the lard and drop it upon a hot plate of iron; if mixed with other substances, it will, on evaporation, leave their deposit behind. LARK PIE.—Take the bones out of the birds. Line a pie-dish with a nice light crust, put in some farce, then the birds, and more farce on top to fill up the dish ; close the pie, leaving a hole at the top. Bake to a light brown colour; then remove the crust, pour in a little chicken broth, season highly, and serve. LARKS (BAKED).—Take a dozen fat larks, pick and bone them, season with salt and pepper, and stuff them with quenelles. Dish them tastefully, and put some of the quenelles into the dish with slices of fried bread. Cover the whole with layers of bacon, and bake for twenty minutes. Take off the bacon, drain the fat, and serve with Espagnole, well seasoned, and of a nice colour. LARKS (CASED).—Bone the birds, and stuff them with a fine farce. Have ready some paper cases dipped in warm oil. Give the larks a round shape, put into the cases some of the farce, and put the larks over ; stand them on a dish, cover with greased paper, and bake. When done, drain off the fat, and pour into the cases some Espagnole and lemon juice. Serve hot. LARKS (ROAST).—Melt a little butter, add to it the yolk of an egg, and brush it all over the birds, cover with bread crumbs, and hang before a clear fire ; baste frequently with butter and keep them floured ; before taking them up flour and salt them. Serve with brown bread crumbs. LARKSPUR, To Cultivate.—Besides various species of the tall larkspur, there is a dwarf variety suitable for beds, which may easily be cultivated by sowing the seed of the best-coloured double flowers during autumn and spring, in warm, dry, light, rich loam. The most convenient method is to sow the seed in narrow drills eight or nine inches apart, and when the plants have attained a sufficient size, thin them out to a distance of six inches. LAUDANUM, Antidote for.—Administer strong vinegar or the juice of lemons ; or give thirty grains of sulphate of zinc, with copious draughts of warm water, every quarter of an hour till sickness ensues. By no means let the patient sleep. LAVENDER (COMPOUND SPIRITS OF), for Lowness of Spirits.—Digest for ten day's a pound and a half of spints of lavender, a”5 pound of spirits of rosemary, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, and two drams of red sanders ; then strain. Dose : Fifty to eighty drops on sugar. LAVENDER SCENT BAG.—Take of lavender flowers, free from stalk, half a pound ; dried thyme and mint, each half an ounce ; ground cloves and carraways, each a quarter of an ounce ; salt, dried, one ounce. Mix, and sew up in silk or cambric bags. LAVENDER, To Propagate.—Take slips from the parent plant in March or April, plant them in pots, and stand them in a shady situation till they have taken root, after which they may be exposed to the sun till they are strong enough to be transplanted to their destined position. LAVENDER WATER, To Distil.—Procure a four-ounce glass retort, either stoppered or corked, also a Florence flask, having a neck of sufficient width to admit of the tube of the retort being inserted to within an inch of the bottom of the flask. Place an ounce of lavender flowers in the retort, then add sufficient spirits of wine to thoroughly moisten them. Next fit the flask on to the retort tube, and immerse the flask in a bowl of very cold water. Apply heat to the retort and distil. When the distillate ceases to give an odour of lavender the operation is complete. LAWNS, To Destroy Worms in.—Put five pounds of newly-slaked lime into about fifteen gallons of water, let it settle, and use the clear liquid. LAWNS, To Extirpate Docks and Dandelions from.—Cut them down to the ground in the spring, and place a little gas-tar or a pinch of salt on the newly-made wound. LEAD OINTMENT.—Pound to a fine powder three drams of sugar of lead and mix it with a few spoonfuls of olive oil; grind well in a mortar, and put over the fire with half a pint of olive oil and two ounces of white wax ; melt together, and stir till quite cold. Useful to dry up wounds and to form a new skin. LEAD TREE, To Make a.—Put half an ounce of sugar of lead, in powder, into a large phial filled with water ; add ten drops of nitric acid, and shake the mixture well. Then pass a string through the cork of the phial and tie on to the end of it a piece of zinc about the size of a hazel-nut ; twist once or twice round the zinc a piece of fine copper wire, and let the end of the wire depend from it in any agreeable form. Place the zinc and wire so that it shall hang as near as possible to the axis of the phial, and so that it does not touch either the sides, top, or bottom. Let the whole rest quietly until metallic lead deposits itself on the zinc and along the wire. LEATHER, Black Balls for.—Melt a quarter of a pound of tallow and two pounds of beeswax ; then mix a quarter of a pound of lamp- black with the same weight of gum-arabic, and when the tallow and wax are growing cool stir the whole together, and roll into balls. LEATHER (BLACK), To Revive.—Hand-bags, leather seats, and such like things, may be made to look equal to new in the following manner:—Mix a tablespoonful of gin with a tablespoonful of sugar, and thicken it with ivory black ; then add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, well beaten. Stir the whole together and use as common blacking, leaving the articles a couple of days to dry. LEATHER (ENAMELLED), To Polish.—To two parts of cream add one part of linseed oil; make them lukewarm, and mix them well together. Clean off all dirt from the leather, rub it over with a sponge dipped in the mixture, then rub it with a dry cloth until a polish is obtained. LEATHER, To Preserve.—The occasional application of a little neatsfoot oil will prevent leather from becoming hard and cracking.116 Boots, harness, &c., will last double the length of time if treated in this manner. LEATHER, To Renovate.—Pulverize one ounce of best gum- acacia, then add to it about a tablespoonful of boiling water, and when it is dissolved mix with it the white of an egg, and thoroughly beat up both together ; then add half a pint of linseed oil, two ounces of spirits of wine, half an ounce of hydrochloric acid, half an ounce of sesquichloride of antimony, and three ounces of vinegar. Apply to the leather with a piece of linen or cotton rag. LEATHER (UNCOLOURED), To Clean. — Dissolve oxalic acid in warm water, and apply with a sponge. LEECHES, To Apply.—When there is a difficulty in getting leeches to bite, roll them in a little stout, or moisten the surface of the part desired to be drawn with milk, or sugar and water. They should be applied by means of a leech-glass or a large quill. LEECHES, To Stop Bleeding from.—Cover the bite with a rag dipped in olive oil or in a strong solution of alum ; or sponge the part and apply .a little spermaceti thereto. If these methods fail apply pressure with the fingers, and afterwards lay over the bite a piece of lint soaked in extract of lead. LEECHES, To Take off.—When the leeches have drawn suffi- ciently, and it is desirable to remove them, never tear them off, but moisten the finger, dip it in salt, and touch them with it. They will immediately relax their hold. LEECHES, To Treat.—After removing leeches from the flesh place them in water containing one-sixteenth per centum of salt ; then put them, one by one, in warm water, and press them gently until cleansed ; throw them into clean, cold water, and renew it every twenty-four hours. They may thus be preserved for future use. LEEKS, To Grow.—These most useful culinary plants are raised from seed sown in March or April, for main crops, and transplanted into well-manured soil in June or July, in rows eight inches asunder and six inches from each other in the row, inserting most of the shank or neck part into the ground. LEG-SORES (RUNNING), To Heal.—Bathe them with brandy, and apply elder-leaf poultices, changing these twice a day. The sores will soon dry up under this treatment. LEMONADE (BOTTLED).—Put half a pound of loaf sugar into a quart of water and boil it over a slow fire, add four ounces of tartaric acid and two drams of acetic acid ; let it grow cold, then add two pennyworth of essence of lemon. Put one-sixth of the above into each bottle, fill with water, and add thirty grains of carbonate of soda. Cork it at once. It will be fit for use on the following day. LEMONADE (PORTABLE), How to Make.—Rasp with half a pound of sugar the rinds of two fine lemons ; reduce the sugar to a powder, and pour on to it the strained juice of the fruit; put the whole into a jar and press it well down. When required, dissolve a tablespoon- ful in a glass of water. If too sweet add a very small quantity of citric acid. LEMONADE POWDERS.—Loaf sugar, one pound ; carbonate of soda, two ounces ; oil of lemon, six drops. Pound, and mix together. Divide the mixture into thirty-two equal portions, and wrap them in white paper. Then take two ounces of tartaric acid, divide into thirty-two portions, and wrap in blue paper. Dissolve one of each kind in half a tumbler of water, mix the two solutions together, and drink while effer- vescing.LEMONADE, Quickly-made.—Slice two lemons and put them Into a pan with half a pound of sugar and a quarter of a pound of gum- arabic ; pour on about two quarts of boiling water ; strain through flannel, and bottle off. A more speedy way of making the drink is by squeezing the juice of two large lemons into a jug, then adding a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pouring a quart of cold water upon the whole. It is fit for use directly the sugar is dissolved. LEMON CONSERVE.—Dry the rind of a lemon, grate it finely, and squeeze over it the juice from the lemon ; stir it together, mix to a proper consistence with boiled sugar, and pour into moulds. LEMON CORDIAL.—Cut into very thin slices the rinds of half a dozen lemons, and put them into a bottle with half a pint of spirits of wine and six bitter almonds, blanched and grated, and let it stand for seven days. Then make a syrup of a pound of white sugar, boil it well, and when cold add it to the spirits. Let it remain a week, then filter through blotting-paper, and bottle off. It improves by keeping. LEMON DROPS.—Mix some caster sugar and lemon juice to a thick paste, drop it upon white paper in small pieces, place it in h warm oven, and when nearly dry remove the paper, and stand the drops on a warm plate in the oven to finish. LEMON DUMPLINGS.—Chop up six ounces of beef suet, and mix it with half a pound of bread crumbs, two ounces of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four eggs well beaten, the juice of three lemons, and the grated rind of one. Boil in floured cloths for one hour. LEMON HONEYCOMB.—Sweeten the juice of a lemon and pour it into a glass dish. Beat up the white of an egg with a pint of cream and a little sugar; whisk it quickly, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. Let it stand for a day before serving it at table. LEMON JUICE, To Preserve.—To a quart of lemon juice add an ounce of powdered charcoal; let it stand for a day, then filter through fine muslin ; pour into bottles, cork well, and place in a cool cellar where it will not get shaken. It will keep good for several years. LEMON KALI, A Summer Drink.—Caster sugar, half a pound ; tartaric acid, quarter of a pound ; carbonate of soda, six ounces ; essence of lemon, thirty drops. Mix, put into a bottle, cork tightly, and keep in a dry situation. A dessert-spoonful to be stirred into a tumbler of water. LEMON PEEL, Tincture of.—Put half a pint of proof spirit or brandy into a bottle, with the thin rind of a lemon ; let stand for a fort- night, when the spirit will be highly flavoured. LEMON PUDDING (BAKED).—Blanch and beat half a pound of Jordan almonds with orange flower water ; add half a pound of butter, the yolks of eight or ten eggs, the juice of a large lemon, and half the rind grated ; work them in a mortar till white ; put puff paste into a shallow dish ; pour in the pudding, and bake for half an hour. LEMONS (PICKLED).—Choose some small lemons with thick rinds, rub them with flannel, and slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp; fill the slits with salt hard pressed in, and set them upright in a pan three days until the salt melts ; then turn them in their own liquor two or three times a day until tender. Make enough pickle to cover them of vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; boil and skim ; when cold put it to the lemons with two ounces of mustard- seed and three cloves of garlic for each half dozen lemons. Put into jars and cover closely. LEMON SPONGE.—Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a pint and three-quarters of water ; strain, and add three-quarters of a pound ofcaster sugar, the juice of six lemons, and the rind of one. Boil the whole for a few minutes, strain, and let it stand till it begins to stiffen ; then beat up the whites of two eggs, add them to the sponge, and whisk till quite white. Wet a mould with cold water, pour in the sponge, and let it stand till it sinks and stiffens. LEMON SYRUP.—To a pint of lemon juice add a pound and a half of sugar, and about half the rind from the lemons ; boil ten minutes, stirring carefully ; strain, and keep it well corked up. Used for flavouring purposes, and, when diluted, as a beverage. LEMON WATER.—Put a couple of slices of lemon with a bit of the peel and two spoonfuls of sugar into a jug, pour in a pint of boiling water, cover it closely, and let it stand for two hours. LENITIVE ELECTUARY.—Finely-powdered senna, half a pound ; powdered coriander seed, a quarter of a pound ; prunes and tamarinds, of each one pound ; and figs, one pound. Mix, and make into an electuary with simple syrup. Dose : A teaspoonful two or three times a day. This is a pleasant laxative for children and females. LENTIL SOUP.—Wash a pint of red lentils in cold water; grease the inside of a saucepan with butter, put in the lentils with an onion cut in quarters, and three sticks of celery cut in pieces, cover the saucepan with the lid, and set it over the fire for five minutes, stirring once or twice to prevent burning ; then pour in three pints of boiling water ; stir well, and simmer from an hour to an hour and a half. Pour the soup through a wire sieve into a basin, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon ; return the soup to the saucepan, and season with pepper and salt. When the soup boils, stir, pour it into a soup tureen, and serve. LETTUCES, To Dress.—Cut them into quarters and lay them in salt and water for ten minutes ; boil them in some good stock, then press them into a good shape. Boil down their liquor to a glaze and add it to some thick sauce ; glaze the quarters, arrange them neatly on a dish, and pour the sauce round. LETTUCES, To Grow.—Sow the seed of both cos and cabbage lettuces for principal crop at the beginning of March ; and to have a regular supply, let more be sown about the middle, and more still at the end, of the month, repeating the sowing at regular intervals during April and May, at all times raking the seed in lightly. When large enough to transplant, draw with a small hoe some shallow drills fifteen inches asunder, and plant one row of lettuces in each drill, setting the plants a foot from each other. This should, if possible, be done in moist weather so as to save labour, for they will not succeed if planted out at a season of drought, unless they are kept for a time well supplied with water. A sowing may be made under a south wall in September or October of brown cos or Victoria cabbage lettuces for winter use. LILIES, To Cultivate.—The white, orange, Canada, and Turk’s- cap lilies are quite hardy, suited to the open border, and grow well in ordinary garden soil. The tiger lily flourishes best in heath mould. The Siberian pompone lily prefers a light soil and a shady situation. The tufts of bulbs should be taken up every fourth year after the foliage has gone off, and planted at once at a depth of from three to four inches. LILY OF THE VALLEY.—These flowers flourish best in leaf mould, but may be grown in any light, moist soil. They are generally multiplied by transplanting good-sized patches of the roots. They will make their appearance year after year, bursting into bloom and spreading their roots each season. LIMBS (NUMBNESS OF THE), To Relieve.—Strong liquid ammonia, one ounce ; oil of turpentine, six teaspoonfuls ; laudanum, thirty drops. Rub well into the skin.LIME, Burns from.—See Burns from Lime. LIME WATER, To Make.—Put a piece of unslaked lime the size of an egg into a winebottleful of cold water, shake it up a few times, and let it settle, then pour off the clear portion. The water will not take up more than a certain quantity of the lime. LINEN (MILDEWED), To Cleanse.—Wash and wring out the linen, soap the spots, and afterwards rub into them some powdered chalk ; lay the linen to dry in the sunshine. If the mildew is deep, a second ap- plication may be necessary. LINEN POLISH, A Good.—Melt together three ounces of white wax, three drams of spermaceti, half a pound of borax, and an ounce and a half of gum-tagacanth. Put a piece the size of a walnut into a quart ol starch made in the usual manner. LINEN, To Impart a Gloss to.—Pour on to two ounces of gum- arabic a pint of boiling water ; cover it up until the next day, then strain it carefully from the dregs and put it into a clean bottle. A tablespoonful of this liquid stirred into a pint of ordinary starch will give to shirt-fronts and collars the appearance of being new. LINEN, To Remove Fruit Stains from.—Rub each side of the stained portion with soap, then tie up in the linen a piece of pearlash, soak it in boiling water, and expose it to the sun and air till the stains disap- pear. LINEN, To Remove Ink Spots from.—Dip the injured portion of the linen in hot water, stretch it tightly over a jug of boiling water, and rub on some salts of lemon. Acetic or muriatic acid may be used in the same way. Directly the spot disappears sponge the place with a rag dipped in cold water. LINEN, To Remove Tea and Coffee Stains from.—Stains of tea and coffee maybe removed from linen by soaking the article in warm water as soon as possible after the injury is sustained, then soaped and rubbed. They will disappear with the next washing. When they have been left for some time, an application of pure glycerine is effective. LINEN, To Remove Wine Stains from.—Wine stains will soon disappear if the linen be held in milk that is boiling on the fire. If more convenient, before washing the linen, put it into a bowl, pour upon the stained portion some boiling milk. Let it stand till it gets cold. After washing and boiling the stains will be removed. LINEN, To Take Scorch out of.—Shirt-fronts and other articles scorched during the process of ironing may be restored to their former whiteness by laying them in the open air where the heat of the sun falls directly on them. LINNETS.—The male bird may be distinguished from the hen by being browner on the back and by having some of the large feathers of the wings white up to the quills. Their food should consist principally of hemp seed, with occasionally a little groundsel, water-cress, chickweed, and plantain. l-rtrv SEED OIL, To Refine.—With one quart of the oil mix three ounces of powdered litharge ; simmer with frequent stirring, until a pellicle or skin begins to form ; remove the scum, and when it has become cold and settled, decant the clear portion. LINSEED POULTICE.—Mix in a heated basin four table- spoonfuls of crushed linseed with a dessert-spoonful of olive oil ; add gradually sufficient boiling water to make it into a thick paste, keeping it constantly stirred while so doing ; spread it evenly on a piece of cambric, apply to the affected part, and cover with a piece of oilskin or other water- proof covering.120 LINSEED TEA, For Coughs.—Take of linseed, two tablespoon- fuls ; liquorice, half an ounce ; boiling water, three pints. Infuse by the fire for three hours, strain, and when cool add a tablespoonful of lemon- juice, and sugar according to taste. LIP SALVE, A Good.—White wax, one ounce and a half; refined lard, two ounces ; spermaceti, half an ounce; sweet oil, one ounce ; alkanet root sliced, one dram ; balsam of Peru, two drams ; sugar, two teaspoon- fuls. Simmer all together, strain, and add six drops of otto of roses, or ten drops of essence of bergamot. LIPS (CHAPPED), To Heal.—Melt together one ounce of honey, half an ounce of litharge, and half an ounce of myrrh. When cool add a few drops of otto of roses or bergamot. Cork well. LIPS, To Remove Stains from the.—Stains left on the lips after eating fruit or nuts may be removed by the aid of diluted lemon juice or cold cream. LITHOGRAPHIC CRAYON.—White wax, three drams ; hard soap, three and a half drams ; finely-powdered lampblack, half a dram. Melt together over a slow fire for half an hour, stirring continually, and pour into moulds while in a liquid state. LIVER AND BACON.—Cut half a pound of bacon into thin slices, remove the rind, and fry it about four minutes, turning it to prevent burning ; put it on a dish and keep hot. Meanwhile, cut a pound of sheep’s or calf’s fiver into slices about an inch thick, cover them well with flour, and when the bacon is removed from the pan put the fiver in and fry it for about ten minutes, moving it occasionally to prevent burning ; fry on both sides, then put it in the middle of the dish. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour with a quarter of a spoonful of salt and a little pepper ; make it into a smooth paste with a gill of water, pour it into the pan, and stir it gently for five minutes. Strain the gravy over the liver, and serve very hot. LIVER (DISORDERED), For.—Take fifteen drops of dilute nitric acid and ten drops of the liquid extract of dandelion in half a wine- glass of compound infusion of gentian three times a day. Meat may be taken once a day, but wine, malt, spirits, and heavy suppers must be avoided. See also Dandelion (Extract of). LIVER (SLUGGISH), To Remedy a.—Boil two ounces of freshly-sliced dandelion root in two pints of water until the liquor is reduced to one pint, then add one ounce of compound tincture of horse-radish. Use occasionally. Or, take occasionally ten minims of tincture of rhubarb, ten grains of bicarbonate of soda, and twenty grains of Epsom salts, in a wineglassful of water. LOBELIA, The Cultivation of.—This pretty little blue flower, so much esteemed as a bedding plant, may be raised from seed sown in autumn, sheltered under a frame in winter, and planted out in the spring. There is also a scarlet variety, which is raised by off-sets, potted separately, and kept under a frame during winter. These latter require to be well supplied with water. LOBELIA TINCTURE, For Coughs.—Infuse for a week one ounce of powdered lobelia in a quart of whisky. Dose : A teaspoonful when the cough is troublesome. LOBELIA WATER, For Inflamed Eyes.—Pour half a pint of boiling water on to one ounce of lobelia leaves and capsules, add a gill of brandy, and infuse for seven days. LOBSTER (BOILED).—Put a large handful of salt into boil- ing water, make it boil up again, then throw in the lobster and boil from a quarter to three-quarters of an hour, according to size.I 21 LOBSTER (BUTTERED).—Extract the meat, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and thicken with a little butter and flour. If to be white, use white gravy and cream. LOBSTER (CURRIED).—Take the meat of a fine lobster and lay it in a stew-pan with three tablespoonfuls of fish stock or veal gravy, the same quantity of cream, two teaspoonfuls of curry-powder, an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and a small piece of mace; simmer gently for one hour, squeeze in half a lemon, and season with salt. LOBSTER (POTTED).—Take out the meat, cut it into small pieces, and season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, and salt. Press closely in a pot with a bay leaf on top, cover with butter, and bake gently half an hour. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, then put it into potting-pots with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day, or it may be preserved for some time, if highly seasoned and covered thickly with butter. LOBSTER (ROAST).—Take a live lobster, half boil it, remove it from the water, dry it with a cloth, and while hot rub it with butter ; set it before a good fire, and baste with butter till it has a fine froth, when it will be done. Serve with melted butter. LOBSTER SALAD.—Pile up the flesh of the fish in the centre of a dish, in the form of a pyramid, arrange some green salad tastefully round, and garnish with beetroot, nasturtium, small white onions stewed, chervil, pickled cucumbers, red turnip radishes, and the small claws of the lobster. Serve with lobster sauce or salad dressing. LOBSTER SALAD (INDIAN STYLE).—String the lobster very fine and mix it with lettuce and dandelion, sprinkled with vinegar, oil, and fine herbs. LOBSTER (SCALLOPS OF).—Cut the lobster in two without breaking the shell. Clean the inside of the shell, cut the meat of the lobster into small dice, preserving the softer portion. Then take one or two spoonfuls of bechamel (see under Sauce), a small piece of butter, a little salt and cayenne pepper, put them into a saucepan, and keep stirring over the fire. When quite hot, throw the dice and the soft part of the lobster into the sauce, and lay the whole in the shells. Make the surface level with a knife, strew over thickly with bread crumbs, put it into the oven, and keep basting with a little melted butter. Give it a colour with the salamander, and keep the scallops very hot. Never let it colour in the oven, as it would taste strong. LOBSTER (STEWED).—Take the meat out of two lobsters, and boil the shells with mace, whole pepper, and salt, for an hour in a pint and a half of water, then strain. Add the meat to some thin melted butter ; squeeze in a little lemon juice ; add a tablespoonful of Madeira, and pour it upon the strained liquor. When the flesh is warmed through, it is ready for table. LOBSTERS, To Choose.—The freshness of a lobster before it is boiled may be tested by pressing the eye with the finger, which excites a slight muscular action of the claws. Hen lobsters may be known either by their spawn, or by the breadth of the flap. When boiled the tail should be very elastic ; when this elasticity disappears, the fish should be rejected as stale. LOGWOOD, Decoction of.—Bruise an ounce and a half of log- wood, put it into a quart of water, and simmer down to half the quantity then add one dram of bruised cassia, and strain. Dose: From one to two ounces, three or four times a day. Used as an astringent. LONDON PRIDE.—This is useful for edging purposes. It is by no means particular as to soil, and requires little attention beyond 17122 cutting off the flower-stem, with a pair of scissors, when the bloom is over. It increases rapidly by off-set suckers. LOVE APPLES, The Cultivation of.—Set Tomatoes. LUMBAGO.—Dip a flannel in scalding water, wring it out, and sprinkle it with spirits of turpentine. Apply quickly to the part affected. Repeat this a few times and it will afford certain relief. Also take a little sweet spirits of nitre. LUMBAGO AND RHEUMATIC PAINS, To Alleviate— With one ounce of strong liquid ammonia, mix two tablespoonfuls of oil of turpentine and forty drops of laudanum. Rub the lotion thoroughly into the skin. LUNGS, To Ascertain the State of the.—Draw in a deep breath, and count slowly in an audible voice as many as possible, without drawing in more air. Let the counting be regulated by seconds, and take careful note of the time. A sound person will be able to count from twenty to thirty-five, while one in consumption will range from six to ten, and those suffering from pleurisy and pneumonia from four to nine. LUNGWORT.—This plant, which bears pretty blue and pink flowers, will grow almost anywhere, either from seed or bits of divided stool. It is valuable as a filling up for the skirts of a shrubbery. LYE (PRINTERS’).—To three gallons of water add two ounces of common salt, two pounds of unslacked lime, and two pounds of bruised soda ; stir well, then let it settle, when it will be ready for use. MACARONI (BOILED).—Cleanse it well, and boil it with a little salt in equal quantities of milk and veal broth till it is tender. Then take a spoonful of the liquor and beat it up with the yolk of an egg and a spoonful of cream ; make it hot, but do not let it boil, pour it over the macaroni, and grate over it some good old cheese, lay on it some pieces of butter to melt, then brown it with a salamander. MACARONI PUDDING.—Break a quarter of a pound of macaroni into small pieces, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil uncovered for twenty minutes ; pour off the water, add a pint of milk, and simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour, or till it is tender. Draw the pan to the side of the fire to cool a little. Beat up an egg with two ounces of sugar, stir it into the macaroni, pour it into a buttered pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake for half an hour. MACARONI (ROAST).—Boil it tender in milk or veal broth, with a little pounded mace and salt; pour off the liquor, and put the macaroni in a dish with bits of butter; grate a good quantity of cheese over the top, cover with bread crumbs ; lay it in a dish ; put the dish in a Dutch oven, and roast before the fire for a quarter of an hour, but do not let the top get hard. MACARONI SOUP.—Put into a stew-pan of boiling water four ounces of macaroni, one ounce of butter, and an onion stuck with six cloves. When the macaroni is quite tender, drain it very dry, and pour on it two quarts of clear gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, taking care that the macaroni does not burst or become a pulp ; it will then be ready to serve. Send it to table with Parmesian cheese. Time, three- quarters of an hour. MACAROONS.—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them with four tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water ; whisk the whites of four large eggs to a froth, stir in a pound of white sugar, and add to the paste ; roll out to the shape of cakes, cover a tin with paper, put the cakes thereon, and bake. MACASSAR OIL, To Make.—Olive oil, three quarts ; spirits ot wine, half a pint; cinnamon powder, three ounces; bergamot, two ounces,123 Mix, and heat them in a large pipkin ; remove from the fire, add a quarter of an ounce of alkanet-root, cover close for a few hours, then filter through blotting-paper. MACHINERY, To Prevent Friction in.—To one part of plumbago add four parts of hog’s lard or other grease, and rub the mixture over the surface of the axle, spindle, or other part where the bearing is. MACKEREL (BAKED).—Cut the fish open, wash and wipe dry, rub the inside with pepper and salt, and stuff with fine bread crumbs, the roe chopped small, parsley, and a small quantity of sweet herbs, the whole mixed together with the yolk of egg. Sew the fish up, lay it in a deep baking dish, sprinkle with flour, and lay on a little cold fresh butter in small pieces ; bake for half an hour, and serve with butter and parsley. MACKEREL (BOILED).—Rub the fish with vinegar, and boil in salt and water for a quarter of an hour. Boil some fennel and chopped parsley, stir into melted butter, and serve accompanied with gooseberry sauce. MACKEREL (BROILED).—Pull off the heads, remove the guts, and take out the roes. Bruise the roes with a fork, mix them with the yolk of egg, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, fennel, parsley, mint or thyme, and a few bread crumbs ; boil together for a short time, then cut the fish open, fill with the stuffing, tie up, dip in oil, and broil over a clear slow fire on a greased gridiron. Serve with fennel sauce, or with butter, ketchup, and walnut pickles. MACKEREL (COLLARED).—Remove the heads and guts, slit them down the front, and take out the bones ; strew over the insides some finely-chopped parsley, nutmeg, mace, pepper, and salt; roll them up firmly, and tie up separately in cloths. Put a little salt and vinegar in the water, and boil them for twenty minutes ; take them up, put into a pot, and pour the liquor over them to prevent the cloths sticking ; let stand till cold, then remove the cloths and put them back into the liquor, adding more vinegar. Send to table with the liquor under them, and garnished with fennel and parsley. MACKEREL (POTTED).—Clean, season with salt, whole pepper, spice, bay leaves, and butter ; bake in a pan ; when cold, take out the bones, pack them in pots and cover with clarified butter. MACKEREL (SOUSED).—Lay them lengthways in a dish with the heads and tails together; season with salt, whole pepper, allspice, and chopped onion ; cover the whole with vinegar and water, then bake for about thirty minutes. MACKEREL, To Carve.—Remove the head by a clean cut of the knife just above the fin, and when the fish is small serve an entire side ; when large, divide the fish so as to serve three persons, dividing the middle portion down the centre, but serving the tail portion whole. MACKEREL, To Preserve.—Boil the fish, remove the heads and bones, and rub them with the following seasoning :—Half a cupful of salt, an ounce and a half of pepper, half a dozen cloves, and a little mixed spice. Let the whole surface be well covered with the seasoning ; then lay the fish in an unglazed dish, cover them with strong vinegar, and pour salad oil over the top. The fish may in this way be kept good for several wcgIv s» MAGIC-LANTERN SLIDES, To Paint.—Stand the glass before a fire, or put it in the oven, until it is very hot, then rub it over with a weak solution of gum-water ; let it dry, place under it the picture to be copied, and draw it upon the glass with a pen in Indian ink. It may after- wards be painted with oil or water colours.124 MAHOGANY, To Remove Stains from.—Dip a cork in aquafortis or oxalic acid and water, and rub it upon the stains till they disappear, then wash the part with clear water, and apply a little furniture polish. MANURES, Different Systems of Applying.—In experiments made by Wolling and others on this subject, the methods in which the manures were applied comprised saturating the soil with solutions of nutritive salts, manuring in drills, placing the manure in holes where plants were to be inserted, and transplanting roots into a mass of soil mixed with moist manures. As far as laboratory experiments may be relied on, the sowing of the manures in drills or spreading it broadcast is the best method. The other systems show no advantages ; indeed, planting in a mass of moist earth and manure proved decidedly hurtful to the plants experimented upon. MAPS, To Mount.—See Oleographs. MARBLE CHIMNEY-PIECES, To Polish.—Dissolve six ounces of pearl-ash in a quart of boiling water, add a quarter of a pound of white wax, and simmer together for thirty minutes. Let it cool ; remove the wax from the surface ; work it into a soft paste in a mortar with a little hot water, and apply this to the marble. MARBLE, To Clean.—Take two parts of Scotch soda, one part of pumice-stone, and one of finely-powdered chalk; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix it with water. Rub it well over the surface of the marble, and when all the stains are removed wash it with soap and water. MARBLE, To Remove Grease Spots from.—First pour upon the grease some strong soda and water, boiling hot; then mix sufficient fullers’ earth to form a thin paste, lay it on the spots, and let it remain for six or seven hours. If the stains be not then removed repeat the process. MARBLE, To Remove Ink Stains from.—Mix into a thick paste some unslacked lime and strong soap ley ; lay it on thickly with a brush, and let it remain for six or seven days, then wash it off with soft soap and water. Should the stain be deep a second application of the paste might be necessary. MARBLE, To Remove Stains from.—To half a pint of soap lees, a gill of turpentine, and a bullock’s gall, add sufficient pipeclay to form a paste. Spread it over the surface of the marble ; let it remain for a couple of days, then rub it off with a soft cloth. In no case use acids to polished marble, as they destroy the gloss. MARBLE, To Take Ironmould out of.—Wet the spots with lemon juice, or with oil of vitriol; let it remain for a quarter of an hour, then rub dry with a soft cloth. Oxalic acid diluted in spirits of wine is also used in the same manner. MARIGOLDS, To Cultivate.—The French marigold is a very showy flower, but, like all others of its kind, is very hard to keep within bounds when it is once admitted to the garden. The seed should be saved from the largest and best of the double flowers and sown in April where the plants are to remain. They will grow almost anywhere, but flourish best in an open situation. MARJORAM (SWEET), To Cultivate.—Sow the seeds on a warm border in March ; when the plants are an inch high transplant them to beds of rich earth, and keep them moist and shaded till they have taken root. It may also be propagated by division of the roots. This plant should form a part of every kitchen garden, as it is in constant demand foi the culinary art. MARMALADE (APPLE).—Peel and core four pounds of tart apples, put them into a saucepan with a quart of cider, or a pint of pure Wine, and two pounds and a half of crushed sugar. Cook them slowly foi125 three or four hours, until the fruit is quite soft, then squeeze it througn a colander, and afterwards through a sieve. Put into jars, and cover with a piece of wet bladder. It is generally eaten with milk. MARMALADE (FRUIT).—Press out the juice; add lemon or orange juice, and sufficient sugar to sweeten the candy. Boil till it becomes transparent, removing the scum as it rises. White and red currants, or other fruit, may in this manner be made into delicious marmalade. MARMALADE (LEMON). —Peel some lemons, cut out the pulp from them, boil the rinds very tender, and beat them fine. Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, remove the scum as it rises, then add one pound of the rind, and boil it fast till the syrup is very thick, stirring in one direction meanwhile. Now mix a pint of the pulp and juice (but no pips) with a pint of apple liquor, and boil the whole together for half an hour, or till it has jellied. MARMALADE (ORANGE).—Take three pounds of Seville oranges, peel off the rind and cut it into very thin chips about half an inch long, and divide the pulp into small pieces. Put the chips and pulp into an earthen vessel, and pour over them three quarts of boiling water. Let them remain for twelve or fifteen hours, then turn the whole into a pre- serving-pan and boil until the chips are tender ; add by degrees six pounds of sugar, previously powdered, and boil the marmalade until it jellies. MARROW BONES, To Serve.—Saw the bones into convenient sizes, cover the ends with dough, tie them up in a floured cloth, boil them an hour and a half, and serve on a napkin with dry toast. MARROW PUDDING.—Cut one pound of beef marrow into thin slices ; beat up four eggs ; add a glass of brandy, with sugar and nut- meg to taste, and the crumbs of a penny loaf ; pour a pint of boiling cream upon the whole. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, and stick small pieces of candied orange and citron over the top before serving. MARSHMALLOW POULTICES, for Preventing Gangrene or Mortification.—Cut some fresh roots of the plant into thin pieces, bruise them in a mortar, and boil the pulp in milk, adding sufficient slippery elm to give it consistence. MARVEL OF PERU.—Sow the seed on a covered hot-bed in spring, and in June plant out in rich sound loam. They require all the sun they can get, and to be kept well sheltered from the rain. The tubers may be taken up in November, and replanted the beginning of the following May. The night-scented species emits after sunset a powerful odour some- what resembling heliotrope. MEAD.—Dissolve one part of honey in three parts of boiling water, flavour with spice and a little ground malt Dip a piece of toasted bread in yeast, lay it on the top of the liquor for a week, or till fermenta- tion has ceased, when it will be fit to drink. It will keep well if bottled. MEASLES.—The symptoms of measles are severe cold in the head, with sneezing and cough ; eyes red and watery and very sensitive to the light ; eyelids swollen ; the patient feels chilly, cold, and shivery, then hot, dry, and feverish, and complains of headache. On the third day small red spots appear on the chin, eyelids, and forehead ; on the fourth day a similar eruption is seen on the hands, arms, and other parts of the body. Upon close examination these spots will be found to be crescent-shaped, and when touched will feel slightly elevated above the skin. This rash con- tinues for three days, then turns brown, and the skin crumbles off like bran. The disease is frequently attended with diarrhoea, which must not be inter- fered with unless it becomes too severe. In treating, confine the child to one room, well shaded from any strong light. Take the greatest care to126 avoid chills, draughts of cold air, &c. Keep the chest particularly well protected from cold ; let the patient inhale camphor every night and morning, and give half a wineglass of lemon juice twice a day until the eruption is quite gone. If there be much cough or difficulty of breathing, put a mustard and oatmeal poultice on the chest, and if needful give a small dose of purgative medicine. Let the food be grit gruel, boiled rice, arrowroot, and plain bread pudding, but avoid giving meat or animal broth for at least ten days after the eruption has dis- appeared. Administer plenty of weak warm drinks, such as barley-water, toast-and-water with a couple of slices of lemon in it, milk and water, apple tea, &c. Should the eruption suddenly disappear through exposure to cold air, put the patient at once up to the neck in warm water, and let him re- main in the bath for ten minutes, then dry, wrap in a blanket, and give a teaspoonful of castor oil in a tablespoonful of hot water. If this fails to bring out afresh the rash, seek medical aid at once, as inflammation of the lungs or stomach, dropsy, or blindness may possibly ensue. MEAT (POTTED).—Cut into dice a pound of rump steak, put it into a jar with three ounces of butter at the bottom, tie it down, stand it in a saucepan of cold water, and boil it over a good fire. When nearly done, season with cloves, cayenne, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and salt; boil till tender, and let it get cold. Wash and bone two anchovies and pound them with the meat ; put the meat back into the saucepan, stir in three ounces of oiled butter, warm up, colour with cochineal, press into small pots, and cover with melted fat. MEAT, To Choose.—Good meat is firm and elastic to the touch, moist but not wet, and, except in the case of veal, pork, and lamb, bright red in colour. It has also, if well fed, a somewhat marbled appearance from small layers of fat in the muscles. It leaves a fresh smell upon a skewer which is thrust into its centre and suddenly withdrawn. The meat juice should slightly redden litmus-paper, showing that it is faintly acid. The fat should contain no watery juice or jelly, and should be free from blood- stains ; the suet-fat should be hard and white. In salt meat the brine should not be sour. MEAT, To Preserve.—Meat may be kept sweet for several days in the height of summer by covering it lightly with bran, suspending some pieces of charcoal around it, and hanging it in an airy place. MEAT (TOUGH), To Render it Tender.—Fresh-killed meat and those parts that are naturally hard and tough may be made tender by soak- ing them for a few minutes in vinegar and water. MEDALS, To Take Impressions of.—Melt a little isinglass glue with brandy, and pour it thinly over the medal or coin, so as to wholly cover its surface. Let it remain on for a day or two, and when thoroughly dried and hardened, take it off. It will be as hard as a piece of glass and present a perfect impression of the medal. MEDICINE (OFFENSIVE), To Administer. — The most nauseous physic may be given to children without trouble by previously letting them suck a peppermint lozenge, a piece of alum, or a bit of orange peel. Many people make the mistake of giving a sweet afterwards to take away the disagreeable taste ; it is far better to destroy it in the first instance. Medicine should always be given when the stomach is empty. MELONS, The Cultivation of.—These plants are most tender exotics, and their cultivation depends greatly on the regularity of heat in the pits or houses in which they are grown, which should range to at least seventy degrees. Sow the seed in January or February for earliest, and in Mat*sli and April for general and successional late crops. The fruit of those sown in January and February will ripen in May, J une, and July ; that of the after sowings in J uly, August, and September.127 MENSES, For Obstruction of the.—Steel filings, two ounces ; powdered sugar, two ounces ; ginger, two drams. Pound together. One teaspoonful to be taken twice a day in orange wine. MENSTRUATION (EXCESSIVE).—Rest as much as pos- sible in a recumbent position during the attack, taking every four hours a powder consisting of five grains of ergot of rye. In the interval a table- spoonful three times a day of Griffiths’ mixture will be beneficial. MENSTRUATION (PAINFUL).—During the period of attack avoid mental excitement and cold, and each alternate day take every four hours a pill composed of two grains of camphor and half a grain of pow- dered opium. MENSTRUATION (SCANTY).—Take plenty of exercise in the open air; avoid hot rooms and too much sleep, and before the ex- pected period put the feet in warm water and take a couple of cochiae pills. METALS, Amalgamation of.—For the combination of one metal with another, it is generally sufficient that one of them be in a state of fluidity. Mercury, being always fluid, is capable of amalgamation with other metals without heat; nevertheless heat considerably facilitates the operation. To amalgamate without heat requires nothing more than rub- bing the two metals together in a mortar ; but the metal to be united with the mercury should be previously divided into very thin plates or grains. When heat is used, which is absolutely necessary with some metals, the mercury should be heated till it begins to smoke, and the grains of metal made red-hot before they are thrown into it. If it be gold or silver, it is sufficient to stir the fluid with an iron rod for a little while, and throw it into a vessel filled with water. This amalgam is used for gilding or silvering of copper, which is afterwards exposed to a degree of heat sufficient to evaporate the mercury. Amalgamation with lead or tin is effected by pouring an equal weight of mercury into either of these metals in a state of fusion, and stirring all with an iron rod. Copper amalgamates with great difficulty, and iron not at all. METALS, To Silver.—Chloride of silver, one part; pearlash, three parts ; common salt, one and a half part; whiting, one part. Mix, and rub it on the surface of the metal with a soft leather, or a cork moistened with water and dipped into the powder. When properly silvered well wash the metal in hot water slightly alkalised, and wipe dry. One part of precipitate silver powder, mixed with two parts each of cream of tartar and common salt, may also be used in the same manner. MICE (WHITE).—These little animals, so dear to some boys, require to be kept extremely clean. They feed upon nuts of any kind, wheat, oats, beans, peas, &c., and bread soaked in milk. MILDEW FROM LINEN, To Remove.—Soap the spots andrub them well with powdered chalk; lay the linen in the open air where the sun shines directly on it; damp it once or twice as it dries, and, if neces- sary, give a second application of soap and chalk. MILDEW FROM PLANTS, To Remove.—Mix one ounce of nitre with one gallon of water, and syringe the plants therewith. Or make a strong decoction of green elder leaves, or a mixture of sulphur and soap- suds, and use in the same manner. MILK ABSCESS, To Relieve.—Apply warm vinegar to the part every two or three hours. MILK PUNCH.—Boil slowly for ten minutes a pint of water, a pint and a half of milk, and six ounces of sugar. Pour it into a pan and stir in two eggs, well beaten and mixed with a pint of cold milk ; add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and a pint of brandy. Strain through a flannel bag, beat it to a froth, and serve in glasses.128 MILK SOUP.—Boil a quart of milk with two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, a couple of bay leaves, and a little cinnamon ; pour it over sippets ot toasted bread, and when these are soft, simmer the whole over a charcoal fire ; then mix the yolks of two eggs with a little milk, put it into the soup, mix, and serve. MILK (SPICED).—Rub together one ounce of lump sugar and twelve drops of essence of vanilla, and add gradually one pint of hot milk. Or, put two ounces of stick cinnamon into a bottle of old Irish whisky, macerate a fortnight, and take a small wineglassful in half a pint of hot milk. This is both nutritious, sustaining, and warming on a cold morning. MILK, To Preserve.—Pour fresh milk into glass bottles ; set them in a kettle of cold water, placing a board for the bottles to stand on ; put some rags or straw between the bottles, and gradually bring the water to boiling point, then cork and seal tight. Milk may by this means be kept sweet several weeks. MILK, To Test.—If the substance of milk be good a drop placed upon the finger-nail will remain attached to it, with a pearly appearance. If, on the contrary, it be poor, it will run off like water. To testthe rich- ness of milk, procure a long glass phial, cut a slip of paper the exact length of the bottle, and divide it into one hundred equal parts ; paste it upon the phial, fill it to the highest mark with the milk, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. The number of spaces occupied by the cream will supply the exact percentage in the milk. MINCE MEAT.—Chop very finely a pound and a half of lean cooked beef, four pounds and a half of kidney beef suet, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon and orange peel, the same of citron, a pound and a half of Malaga raisins, and three pounds and a half of apples ; put them into a pan with four pounds and a half of currants, well washed and picked, two ounces of mixed spice, and two pounds of sugar. Mix the whole together with the juice of eight lemons and a pint of brandy. Place in jars and tie down. Will be ready for use in a few days. MINCE PIES.—Roll a piece of puff-paste to "the thickness of a penny piece, then lightly butter a dozen tartlet pans ; cut out twelve pieces from the paste, each the size of the tartlet pans ; lay them upon the slab ; roll the trimming of the paste again to the former thickness ; cut twelve other pieces, with which line the pans ; put a piece of mince meat in each ; wet them round, cover them with the other pieces of paste, prick a hole in the centre, and close them well at the edges ; egg over lightly, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. MINCE PIES (LEMON).—Squeeze all the juice out of a large lemon, boil the outside quite tender, beat it to a mash, and add to it three large apples chopped small, a quarter of a pound of suet, half a pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar ; mix the juice with the fruit ; line the patty pans with a short crust, fill, and bake. MINT, To Propagate.—Mint is readily increased by parting the roots in spring, or by planting cuttings, five or six inches apart, in a moist soil during the summer months, and keeping them well watered till they have taken root. MIRRORS, To Silver.—Spread a sheet of tinfoil on a table, and, with a hare’s foot, rub mercury over it till the two metals incorporate ; place the glass upon it, and lay weights on the top. The tinfoil will in a few hours adhere to the glass. Two ounces of mercury will cover three square feet of glass. MOCK TURTLE SOUP.—Cut a calf's head in two, scrape and clean it well, but allow the skin to remain on ; half boil it with the fattest129 end of a hand of pork which has previously been well soaked, a few sweet herbs, a couple of onions, and a head of celery; then cut the meat into small pieces. Break the bones, put them back into the soup, and simmer for four or five hours ; let it cool, remove the fat, and strain. Thicken the soup with flour and butter ; add two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and one of soy, four or five glasses of Madeira wine, and the juice of a lemon ; put in the meat of the head and the pork cut into well-shaped pieces, forcemeat balls and egg balls, and serve as soon as the meat is warmed through. MODELS IN WAX.—To produce a wax model proceed to take the mould in precisely the same manner as for a plaster cast (see below), and when the whole is well bound together pour the wax into it ; allow it to cool on the outside to the thickness of about an eighth of an inch, and pour off the remainder, or insert into the mould a smaller quantity and shake it about until a good even coating is obtained. Remove the mould, trim the seams, and in the case of heads, carve out the eyes as in the plaster cast. MODELS OF LIVING BEINGS, To Cast.—Lay the person to be modelled upon his back with the head raised by a bran pillow to the position assumed while walking ; cover the face, or other parts to be cast, with oil of olives, plug the ears with cotton wool, and insert a quill up each nostril, carefully filling in with wool the space between the quill and the nostrils. Next take some plaster of Paris and mix it with warm water to the consistence of cream ; cover the face with the plaster, beginning at the upper part of the forehead, and spread it downwards over the eyes (which must be kept firmly closed) and as far as the lower border of the chin. It the chest and arms are to be taken, cover those parts and work upwards, so as to join the cast of the face. When this has set remove it carefully. The next operation is to prepare a trencher rather deeper than half the head, fill it with liquid plaster, and lower the head (which must previously be well greased) into it. Then turn the person on his face and cast the neck, and afterwards the back. This being accomplished, soak the parts thoroughly in linseed oil, boiled with sugar of lead or litharge ; tie them together ; carefully oil the mould, and pour therein liquid plaster. When the outside is nearly set, scoop out the centre with a spoon, so as to render the cast lighter, and allow the whole to dry, when the strings may be cut, the mould removed, and the edges of the joints smoothed off. The only thing now to be done is to carve the eyes out of the solid mass, otherwise they will of course appear closed. MODELS, To Give a Natural Effect to.—When mountains, hills, roads, &c., are desired to be reproduced in miniature, the task may be readily performed by forming the design in cinders and covering them with brown paper soaked in a thin solution of glue until it is quite pulpy. Allow this to get nearly dry, then by the aid of a pepper-box dust it over with sand, powdered brick or slate, or chopped lichen or moss. Where neces- sary, touch up with colours. Spars or stalactites may be constructed of wood smeared with glue and sprinkled with powdered fluor spar or glass. Water may be represented by a piece of looking-glass, the sides sur- rounded with paper soaked in glue and covered with sand. For windows talc or thin glass may be used. MOLES.—These protuberant spots are easily got rid of by drop- ping upon them, from the point of a glass rod, a little acetic or nitric acid, and allowing it to burn them away. Care must be taken that none of the acid comes into contact with the adjacent skin. MONEYWORT.—This plant, which bears a neat, regular foliage, with a small yellow flower at the foot of each leaf, is found in our meadows 18i3° and in moist woods, and makes a good border or fringe for rock-work. It is readily struck from small portions of the root planted in peat earth and well supplied with water. MONKEYS.—These quadrumanous animals are fed upon nuts, fruit, and bread. A small bone may now and again be given them for their amusement, but meat should not be administered. They require to be kept very warm, and their coats should be frequently combed and brushed. MONTPELIER (BUTTER OF).—Take a handful of chervil, tarragon, burnet, and green onions ; wash them clean, and blanch them in boiling water, with a handful of salt to keep them green. When they have boiled six minutes take them out, and put into cold water till quite cold. Drain the herbs, then squeeze all the water out, and pound them with the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs, ten or twelve anchovies, boned, two spoonfuls of capers, a small piece of garlic, a little cayenne, nutmeg, and salt. When pounded very fine, add half a pound of fresh butter, a spoonful of sweet oil and a spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Rub it through a sieve, and to make it greener add spinach water. If the butter is required to be red, infuse all the herbs in a little boiled vinegar and use lobster spawn to colour it. Be careful that the flavour of no one herb predominates. Put the butter into ice, and use it for borders of salads of fish, &c. MOOR GAME (POTTED).—Wash the birds, wipe them dry, and season well with allspice, mace, nutmeg, and salt; put into a pot, cover with butter, and bake in a slow oven. When cold, remove the butter, drain off the gravy, and put the birds into separate pots ; then put butter into a basin, set it in a bowl of hot water to melt, and cover each bird with the butter. MORTAR (FIRE PROOF), for Stoves, &c.—Take two-thirds of the best lime and one-third of smith’s black dust, and mix with the necessary quantity of water. The mortar so formed will set nearly as hard as iron. MOSS, To Dye, &c.—Moss or grass may be dyed in all the colours that will dissolve. For pink boil together in water logwood and ammonia ; for red, logwood and alum ; for blue, indigo. After they have taken the colour dip them in a weak solution of gum-water to keep them together. MOTHS, BEETLES, &c., FOR COLLECTIONS.—These insects may be killed ■without injuring their outward appearance by shutting them up in a small box containing freshly bruised laurel leaves. MOTHS, BEETLES, &c., To Keep them from Clothes.—A few small bags of aromatic herbs placed in the boxes or drawers where clothes are kept will keep them free from moth, worm, &c. ; but, perhaps, nothing proves more effectual in preventing the ravages of these insects upon linen and woollen goods than a few pieces of camphor scattered among the articles. A small piece of paper moistened with turpentine and put into the ward- robe or drawers for a day or two, about three times a year, is a sufficient preventive against moth. MOUSE AND RAT HOLES, To Stop.—Break some glass up small, mix it with plaster of Paris, and insert it in the holes. It must be used directly it is mixed into a paste, as it sets very quickly.- Common hard soap rammed into the holes will also prove very effectual. MOUTHS (SORE).—Boil some hyssop in water for ten minutes ; strain, and when cold use as a gargle. MOUTH-WASH (CAMPHORATED).—Dissolve two ounces of camphor in half a pint of water, and then add half a pint of eau-de- Cologne.MOUTH-WASH (EAU-BOTOL).—To half a pint of tincture of cedar-wood add two fluid ounces each of tincture of rhatany and tincture of myrrh, and three drops of otto of peppermint MOUTH-WASH (VIOLET).—Mix equal quantities of tincture of orris, spirits of roses, and common spirit, with a few drops of otto of almonds. MUFFINS.—Put a pint and a half of ale yeast in water, let it lie all night, and in the morning pour the water off; then pour on to the yeast two gallons of lukewarm water, add two ounces of salt, and stir the whole together for a quarter of an hour. Strain, and with a bushel of flour make a light dough, leaving it for an hour to rise. Roll it with the hand ; pull it into pieces about the size of a large walnut; roll these out thin in a good quantity of flour; cover them at once with a piece of flannel, and when they have risen to their proper size proceed with the baking. MULLET (GREY).—These may be either boiled, broiled, baked, or roasted. When small, they are usually cooked like whitings ; when large, after the manner of salmon or cod. MULLET (RED).—First clean the fish, but do not remove the inside, fold it in oil paper, and bake it gently in a dish ; then make a sauce of the liquor which comes from the fish, adding a piece of butter, a little flour, a glass of sherry or other light wine, and a little essence of anchovies ; give it a boil, and serve in a sauce-boat. The fish is sometimes sent to table with lobster sauce or anchovy sauce. They are generally served without the papers. They may also be boiled or broiled, but the above method preserves the delicacy of the fish. MUMPS.—This complaint is an inflammatory affection of the salival glands, particularly the largest, which is situated below the ear. The symptoms of the malady are a slight feverish sensation, accompanied with pain and swelling, extending from beneath the ear, along the neck, to the chin. It usually reaches its height in four days, and then declines. A light diet should be administered, together with gentle laxatives and occasional hot fomentations. MURIATE OF AMMONIA, To Test its Purity.—Place a small quantity on a red-hot iron plate. If pure it will fly off in a vapour, leaving behind scarcely any residuum. MUSHROOMS, Essence of.—Take a sufficient quantity of either flap or button mushrooms, sprinkle them with salt, let them stand for three hours, then mash them. Next day strain off the liquor that will have flowed from them, put it into a stew-pan, and boil it to half its quantity. This will not keep long, but is very delicate in flavour. MUSHROOMS (PICKLED).—Rub the large button kind with salt and a piece of flannel, throw a little salt over them, and simmer them over a slow fire ; shake them constantly until they have absorbed the liquor which came from them, then add enough vinegar to cover them ; when warm, turn the whole into a jar, let stand till cold, and tie down. They may thus be kept for a considerable time. MUSHROOM POWDER, for Soups.—Peel some large thick button mushrooms, spread them on dishes, and bake in a slow oven till dry ; then pound them in a mortar with a little cayenne pepper and mace ; put into a bottle, and store in a dry place. MUSHROOM SPAWN.—Make a bed of horse-droppings, with- out the straw, a foot thick, let it remain in a heap for a few days, then spread it out to dry, turning it a few times till it is three parts dry, when it will be fit for forming the bed, which must be firmly beaten together with the back of the spade, so as to prevent the temperature rising too high. When the heat has risen to its maximum, and again fallen to132 about seventy-five degrees, get the spawn and break the cakes into small pieces, put them all over the bed, even with the surface, about nine inches apart, pat them down gently, and cover with a couple of inches of good garden soil, covering it with a little litter, so as to keep it at a uniform temperature. When the spawn has run through the bed (five or six weeks after planting), sprinkle it with tepid water, enoughjto moisten the earth, but not the manure, and when the surface becomes dry sprinkle again in the same manner. MUSHROOMS (STEWED).—Peel and scrape the inside of flaps and rub the buttons with a piece of flannel and salt; sprinkle salt over them, and put them into a saucepan with some whole pepper ; simmer over a slow fire, and when done stir in a little butter and flour and a spoon- ful or two of cream ; boil together for a moment or two, and serve with sippets of toast. MUSHROOMS, To Distinguish from Poisonous Fungi.— The colour, shape, and texture of these vegetables cannot be relied on as a test of their wholesomeness, it is necessary, therefore, to have recourse to other expedients, and the following remarks may be useful in the endeavour to distinguish true mushrooms from poisonous fungi resembling them in ap- pearance :—The true mushroom grows in dry pastures and waste lands, whereas the false kind are found growing in clusters in humid places, on the stumps of trees, and on animal matter undergoing putrefaction. The true mushroom is pleasant in flavour and smell, while the false fungus has an astringent, styptic, and disagreeable taste. The safi* kinds have gene- rally a compact, brittle texture ; the unwholesome specimens are moist on the surface. The true mushroom, again, has white flesh, the stem is white, solid, and cylindrical, the gills are of a pinky-red, changing to a liver colour ; the false fungus turns blue when cut, is of a pale or sulphur yellow, bright blood-red, or a greenish colour. Rut perhaps the safest test which can be applied is to sprinkle a little salt on the gills or spongy parts ; if they turn black they are fit for food, while if they become yellow they are poisonous. MUSHROOMS, To Preserve for Winter Use.—Pick and cutoff the stalks, wipe them clean, removing the brown portion from the large ones, peel off the skin, and lay them in a cool oven. When dry, put them in paper bags and keep them in a dry place. Although they will appear somewhat shrivelled, they will swell to their proper size when simmered in gravy. MUSSEL SOUP.—Put the mussels into a saucepan, boil them till they open, take them from the shells, and put them in a stew-pan with butter rolled in flour, parsley, and sweet herbs ; add some rich gravy— about a pint and a half to each quart of mussels—simmer till reduced to one half, and serve hot with toasted bread cut into sippets. MUSSELS (PICKLED).—Put the mussels into a pan after they are washed and picked free from weed, and cover them with boiling water ; let stand till cold, then take them out of their shells, put them into a jar, or wide-mouthed bottle, fill the jar with vinegar, add some whole pepper and a capsicum, and let them stand till the following day. Serve cold. MUSSELS, To Ascertain if Wholesome.—Boil a silver fork or spoon in the water with the fish. When the mussels are done, examine the silver, if bright they are wholesome, if black or of a dark hue they are poisonous. MUSTARD (GERMAN).—To two tablespoonfuls of mustard add one tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of caster sugar, a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, the juice of a small onion (pressed through a lemon squeezer), and one tablespoonful of melted butter. Mix the whole with vinegar.l33 MUSTARD PAPERS.—Bruise some black mustard seed to a powder, and sprinkle it evenly over paper which has previously been coated with a thin solution of gum. Dry it in a warm place, and when required cut it into the desired shape and immerse it for a moment in tepid water before applying. These papers will be found quite as effectual as the common mustard plasters, and far more cleanly. MUSTARD PLASTER, To Apply a.—If the mustard is mixed with white of egg instead of water the plaster may be applied to the most delicate skin without causing it to blister. MUSTARD POULTICE, A Strong.—Mix a quarter of a pound of mustard and two ounces of scraped horseradish with sufficient vinegar to bring the poultice to the proper consistence. MUSTARD SPONGE.—Dr. B. W. Richardson recommends the use of a sponge for making mustard poultices. He says:—“A sponge makes the best of mustard carriers. The nurse mixes the mustard in a basin with water until the mass is smooth and of even consistence. Then she takes the soft mass all up with a clean sponge, lays the sponge in the centre of a soft white handkerchief, ties up the corners of the handkerchief neatly, to form a hold, and applies the smooth convex surface to the skin. This mustard sponge, warmed again by the fire and slightly moistened, can be applied three or four times, is good for several hours, and saves the trouble of making a new poultice for reapplication, often a matter of im- portance during the weariness of night-watching. The sponge can be washed clean in warm water." MUSTARD WHEY, for Constipation, &c.—Take a cupful of milk, and the same quantity of water, and boil them together with half an ounce of mustard-seed till the curd separates, then strain. Dose : One dessert-spoonful an hour before breakfast. A teacupful of the above mixture, taken several times a day, gives great relief in cases of dropsy, palsy, and chronic rheumatism. MUTTON (BREAST OF), To Boil.—Stew it tender in some good gravy ; bone and score it, season with salt and cayenne pepper, and give it a boil up. Serve with capers and melted butter, or with chopped walnuts or mushroom ketchup. MUTTON (BREAST OF), To Collar.—Remove the bones and gristle, then take some bread crumbs and sweet herbs chopped very fine, and mix them with the yolk of egg ; lay the meat flat, and spread the seasoning over it ; roll the meat up as hard as possible, skewer together, and either roast or bake. MUTTON (BREAST OF), To Roast.—Cut off the superfluous fat, put the meat before a good fire, and roast for an hour and a quarter. Serve with stewed cucumbers or green peas. MUTTON BROTH.—Put into a stew-pan as much water as will be required to cover the pieces of mutton, put therein a cupful or so of pearl barley, and boil for three hours ; then add the meat, with a carrot or turnip and a couple of onions cut up small, and let the whole boil together till the mutton is tender. Season to taste. Serve the broth first, then the meat. MUTTON CHOPS (BROILED).—The chops should be taken from the best end of the loin. Remove the greater portion of the fat, and any skin that may be upon them, and put them on a gridiron over a very clear fire ; turn them frequently, but do not stick the fork into the lean, as this would let out the gravy ; when nearly done rub a little fresh butter over them, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Serve very hot. MUTTON CPIOPS (FRIED).—Trim the chops, pare off the fat, and put them into a pan of boiling dripping ; turn them again and again134 until they are nicely browned, when, if not very thick, they will be done. MUTTON CHOPS (STEWED)—Put a couple of pounds of chops into a stew-pan ; rather more than cover them with cold water ; add two or three onions and some turnips. When nearly boiling, skim off the fat, cover the saucepan close, and let the chops simmer over a very slow fire until they are tender. They will take about three-quarters of an hour. Serve with the broth and vegetables. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA MINUTE.—Season the cutlets with salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, and broil them over a brisk fire. Serve with strong veal gravy. In trimming the cutlets for this entrie leave a little of the fat upon them. MUTTON CUTLETS A LTTALIENNE.—Take somechops from the best part of the shoulder, sprinkle them on each side with pepper and salt, cover them lightly with yolk ol egg, dip them first in bread crumbs, then in melted butter, and lastly in more bread crumbs, and fry them in butter, over a very brisk fire, until they are of a good colour. Press out the fat between stout sugar paper ; glaze them lightly with egg, and spread over them some very thin Italian sauce. MUTTON CUTLETS EN HARICOT BRUN.—Cut some thick chops, take away the bones from the end, and fry them a nice colour in a little butter ; put into a stew-pan a bit of fresh butter and a spoonful of flour, and stir them with a wooden spoon till they are brown, then moisten with veal gravy. When the sauce boils throw in the chops with a few pieces of turnip and some parsley and green onions, and let the whole simmer gently until the turnips are done, skimming the sauce frequently. Remove the chops and lay them in a clean stew-pan. Cut some turnips into ornamental shapes, not too small; drain the sauce through a tammy over the chops and turnips, add a little sugar, and let it stew until the turnips are done, removing the scum as it rises. If no veal gravy be at hand, put a small piece of butter into an omelette-pan with a spoonful of caster sugar and the turnips ; fry them till they are of a fine colour, then moisten, and use as specified above. MUTTON (FILLET OF).—Cut a piece about five inches thick from the best end of a large leg, take out the bone, and in its place put a highly seasoned forcemeat; flour the piece, and roast it for two hours. Send to table with melted butter, or with rich brown gravy poured over it, and accompanied with currant jelly. MUTTON (HARICOT).—Cut into pieces one pound of neck of mutton, and fry it in an iron saucepan with a little dripping till it is brown, turning it frequently to prevent burning. While frying the meat, peel a couple of onions, cut in rings, and put them with the meat to fry. Peel a small turnip, and scrape and cut into small squares a carrot. Pour off the dripping from the meat ; add to the meat an ounce of flour, the carrot and turnip, pepper, and salt ; mix together, and add by degrees three-quarters of a pint of hot water ; stir until it boils, then let it simmer for an hour and a half, stirring it frequently. MUTTON (HASHED).—Cut the meat into thin slices, and put the bones into a saucepan with a bunch of thyme and parsley, an onion, pepper, and salt; strain the gravy which comes therefrom ; dip the pieces of meat in flour, lay them in the saucepan, and pour the gravy over them. Place the saucepan over the fire until the mutton is warm through, but do not allow it to boil as this would make the meat tough. A few potatoes mashed into the gravy gives it a superior flavour. When the mutton is hot enough, arrange it on a dish, pour the gravy over it, and place sippets of toast all round.135 MUTTON (HAUNCH OF), To Carve.—This joint, which con- sists of the leg and part of the loin of a sheep, should be placed on the dish in such a manner as to enable the carver to cut the slices towards himself. First make an incision across the knuckle end, down to the bone, to let the gravy flow ; then cut thin slices the whole length of the haunch, and serve them with slices of fat and some of the gravy. MUTTON (HAUNCH OF), To Roast.—Hang it as long as it will keep sweet, sponge it with vinegar and warm water, and afterwards wash it well. Make a paste with flour and water, spread it upon paper, and cover the fat with it. Set the joint at a distance from the fire, and baste with milk and water. When the fat begins to drip, change the dish, and baste with its own dripping. Half an hour before it is done, remove the paper, place the meat near to the fire, and baste well. Serve with currant jelly. MUTTON (LEG OF), Boiled.—Soak the joint for an hour and a half in weak salt and water, wipe it dry, put it in a floured cloth, and boil from two hours to two hours and a half, according to size. Serve with mashed turnips and caper sauce, or with greens and oyster sauce. MUTTON (LEG OF), Roast.—Put the leg into a saucepan, cover it with water, and simmer gently till it is half cooked ; then take it from the water and hang it instantly before the fire to finish. Time, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, according to weight. MUTTON (LEG OF), To Carve a Boiled.—Place the shank on the left, and begin by cutting right through the noix or kernel, called the pope’s eye, which is generally considered a delicacy. The fat will be found in the centre of the joint, lying in two directions, a portion of which should be served with each slice from the middle or thick of the thigh. This dish is sometimes sent to table with the thick portion uppermost, but generally this part is placed to face the carver. MUTTON (LEG OF), To Carve a Roast.—Turn the knuckle to the left, make an incision across the centre through the pope’s eye, and cut moderately thick slices from the right and left. The fat will be found on the thin side of the joint, nearest the dish. MUTTON (LOIN OF), Roast.—A loin roasted singly is best cooked in a Dutch oven. Sprinkle it with salt and flour, and baste well the whole time it is before the fire, as upon this depends much of its sweet flavour. It will require from an hour and a half to an hour and three- quarters. MUTTON (LOIN OF), To Carve.—The loin should be well jointed before it is sent to table. The carver has merely to cut down be- tween the bones, into chops, beginning at the narrow end, and serve them round. Some carvers prefer to cut it lengthways, after the manner of a saddle, contending that it cuts better that way. MUTTON (NECK OF).—This joint is mostly used for broth, but is very sweet when cooked in a Dutch oven before the fire. It should be boiled slowly till nearly done, then covered with the yolk of egg, sprinkled with bread crumbs and sweet herbs, and put before the fire to finish cooking. It needs to be previously well jointed, otherwise it is difficult to carve. Time, an hour and a half. MUTTON, Regarding the Cooking of.—Those parts which are in- tended to be roasted will eat shorter and more tender if they are allowed to hang some time before being cooked, especially the haunch or saddle ; but those parts which are boiled are best used fresh, otherwise the colour is apt to be injured. MUTTON RISSOLES.—Take some underdone mutton, chop it very fine, season with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg ; add a little beef136 suet, some sweet herbs, a couple of anchovies, a few oysters, all chopped small, and a spoonful of anchovy sauce; bind together with the yolk of egg, well beaten ; roll it into balls, and fry. MUTTON (SADDLE OF), Roast.—Hang it for some time to get a good flavour, then take off the skin, and skewer it on again ; cut away the fat round the kidneys, and hang the joint before a strong fire. When within rather more than a quarter of an hour of its being done, take off the skin, dredge the meat with salt and flour, and baste well. Time, about two hours and a half. MUTTON (SADDLE OF), To Carve. — This joint, which is a very favourite one, consists of two loins, and is either cut into thin slices parallel with the back-bone, or carved obliquely from the bone to the edge. The under part is seldom served hot. MUTTON (SHOULDER OF), Boiled.—Let the meat hang for a time, then put it into salt for two days; bone it, sprinkle with pepper and a little pounded mace, roll and tie it up, and stew in a good quantity of water with an onion and a few pepper-corns. Stew some oysters in rich gravy, thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, put the meat on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. MUTTON (SHOULDER OF), Roast.—Put the spit in close to the shank-bone, and run it along to the blade-bone ; put before the fire, cook thoroughly, and send to table with the skin nicely browned, accom- panied with onion sauce. A joint weighing seven pounds will take an hour and a half to cook. MUTTON (SHOULDER OF), To Carve.—Make a cut on the fore part of the shoulder, and serve slices from both sides of the incision ; then cut slices lengthways along the shoulder blade. The fat lies at the rounding corner, and near it are some epicure’s morsels. The under side is generally considered best cold ; but if served hot, the oyster pieces to the right, and the hillock produce the prime slices, which must be cut horizontally. MUTTON, To Choose.—Wether mutton, which is superior in flavour to that of the ewe, may be known by the fat on the inside of the thigh. The flesh should be firm, of a close grain and a bright colour, and the fat solid and white. If upon pinching the meat it wrinkles up and remains so, and the fat is held together with stxings of skin, the joint should be rejected as old and tough. MUTTON, To Preserve from Taint.—Wash it every day with vinegar, and thoroughly dry it before hanging. In muggy weather, rub it with sugar, and sprinkle it all over with pepper and ground ginger, to keep off the flies. NARCISSUS, To Grow.—These graceful flowers require the same treatment as recommended in this work for hyacinths, but are better for even a lighter compost and a more liberal supply of water. NARCOTIC POISONS.—Deadly night-shade, fools’ parsley, baneberries, and other like poisonous plants, produce nausea, faintness, stupor, and frequently death. To eradicate the evil, give emetics and large draughts of fluids, rouse the patient, and keep him awake, using rough treatment if it cannot be otherwise done, and administer from thirty to forty drops of sal-volatile in strong coffee every half hour. NASTURTIUMS (PICKLED),—Gather the seeds while they are young, and steep them |in salt and water for thirty minutes ; then place them in boiling salt and water, and boil for a couple of minutes. Put them into a jar and pour over some good vinegar ; flavour with spice, and cover closely for seven days, when they may be used as a substitute for capers.137 NECTARINES, To Preserve.—Peel and cut the fruit into halves ; simmer in boiling water till it floats ; drain, and boil it with its own weight of clarified sugar ; let stand till the following day, then drain off the fruit; boil the sugar again, and simmer the fruit in it for a few moments ; repeat the process a third time, then let it stand in a warm place for two days, put into pots, and cover closely. NERVE DROPS.—Spirits of hartshorn, eight drops; oil of lavender, four drops. Mix. To be taken in a wineglass of water, or upon loaf sugar. NERVOUS DEBILITY, To Relieve.—Dissolve three grains of sulphate of quinine in six ounces of camphorated julep ; add three drams of volatile tincture of valerian, and half an ounce of tincture of calumba. Mix. Dose : Three tablespoonfuls every four hours. NERVOUS IRRITABILITY, To Remove.—Mix with two ounces of compound tincture of bark, one ounce and a half of camphorated tincture of valerian, and half an ounce of compound tincture of aloes. Dose : Two teaspoonfuls twice a day. NETS, SAILS, OR CORDAGE, To Tan.—Boil one hundred pounds of oak or hemlock bark in ninety gallons of water until the quantity is reduced to seventy gallons ; then take out the bark and lay the cloth or cordage in lightly, but so that it is entirely covered with the liquor ; let it remain in for ten or twelve hours, then dry it thoroughly in the open air. Cloth or cordage thus prepared will last many years longer than that which is not tanned. NETTLE BEER.—Boil in two gallons of water, one peck of nettles, four pounds of malt, a pound and a half of sugar, two ounces of hops, and half an ounce of ginger ; strain, when nearly cold add a little yeast, and bottle while in a state of fermentation. NETTLE STINGS, To Cure.—Rub the wound with dock, rose- mary, mint, or sage leaves. NIGHTMARE, To Prevent.—Carbonate of soda, ten grains; com- pound tincture of cardamoms, three drams ; sugar, one dram ; peppermint water, one ounce. Mix, and repeat the dose several nights in succession. NIGHT-SWEATS (CONSUMPTIVE).—Consumptive night- sweats may be arrested by sponging the body nightly with salt water. NIPPLES (SORE), To Heal.—Rub on a little borax and honey ; or mix together equal quantities of white of egg and brandy, and apply. The following ointment is also recommended:—Spermaceti ointment, half an ounce ; tincture of tolu and powdered gum, of each two drams. Mix. NITRE DROPS.—Mix with a sufficient quantity of water, three ounces of nitre, one pound of sugar, and ten drops of essence of lemon. NOSE (BLEEDING OF THE), To Stop.—Introduce into the nostrils a small piece of lint, previously dipped in some mild styptic, such as a solution of alum, white vitriol, creosote, or even cold water. If this does not succeed in stopping the bleeding sniff some cold water up the nostrils, or place something cold against the spine of the back, either ice or a cold key. An upright posture should be maintained and the arms held up above the head. NOSE (POLYPUS IN THE), To Relieve.—Powder some alum and take it frequently after the manner of snuff. At bed-time plug the nostril with lint dipped in brandy, in which alum is dissolved. NOUGAT.—Blanch and peel one pound of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, cut them into dice, and dry them in an oven, but keep them white. Take three or four spoonfuls of fine sugar, put it ovet a slow fire, and when melted, put in the almonds, and stir with a woodeni,38 skewer. Rub the inside of a mould with a little oil or butter, and lay soma of the almonds in beds, as thinly as possible ; take an oiled lemon to press the almonds with, but do it quickly, otherwise the almonds will get cool, when they cannot be worked so thin ; then put it into the oven to soften again. Nougat requires to be made light and to perfection. It may take any form desired. It is sometimes spread in a buttered baking dish, rolled out with an oiled rolling pin, put into the oven to soften, then cut into thin strips, and kept in a dry place till required. NOUILLES.—Lay flat on a table half a dozen spoonfuls of flour; make a hole in the middle, and put in a small pinch of salt, a little water to melt the salt, the yolks of three eggs, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; mix the whole, flatten the paste with a roller, about one inch thick, cut it into slices about an inch broad and about the same in length. Blanch them in boiling water to take oft' the flour that sticks around, and when they are blanched drain them and let them cool, that they may not stick together. Boil them in some good broth, and when done, drain and put them into bdchamel or other sauce. If served as an entremSt, send it to table accom- panied with scraped Parmesan cheese ; if for soup or fowl serve with the broth in which they were boiled. NOUILLES (CROQUETTES OF).—Prepare and blanch the nouilles as above directed ; take a pint of milk and boil it with a little salt, a small piece of sugar, and the peel of half a lemon ; when the milk boils, put the nouilles into it and reduce it till it becomes very thick ; put them into a cold dish, and when quite cold, shape them ; fry some, after dipping them in the whites of eggs, and crumble others ; frost and glaze them with sugar. NOYEAU, Quintessence of.—Dissolve one ounce of essential oil of bitter almonds in one pint of spirits of wine. A few drops is sufficient to perfume several pounds of pastry. NUTMEG, Essence of.—Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of essential oil of nutmeg in a quartern of spirits of wine. Put into a bottle and cork closely. It may often be used where ground nutmeg would be unsuitable. OAK FLOORS, To Polish.—To any quantity of wax add benzo- line in the proportion of one glassful to every ounce of wax. Take a large paint brush, brush the mixture over the floor, and when it is dry (which will be in less than half an hour) polish with a brush. OAK GRAINING FOR WOOD.—Mix Vandyke brown and chrome yellow with one part of boiled linseed oil and two parts of turpen- tine. The addition of a small quantity of litharge may be added to cause it to dry quickly. When quite dry glaze the work with a mixture of Vandyke brown and burnt umber ; or lampblack may be substituted for the latter. Draw the glaze lengthways along the wood with a small brush, wet with sour beer. No oil is to be used in the glazing process. Ultimately give a coating of oak varnish. OAK VARNISH, Cheap.—Boil together sixty parts of linseed oil, two parts of litharge, and one part of white vitriol, each finely powdered. Or, dissolve three pounds and a half of clear pale rosin in one gallon of oil of turpentine. OAK WAINSCOTS, To Clean.—Boil together half a gallon of beer, half an ounce of beeswax, and a tablespoonful of sugar. Apply with a brush, and when dry polish with a cloth. OATMEAL GRUEL —Mix to a fine paste a tablespoonful of oatmeal and three or four times that quantity of water ; then add a pint of boiling milk, or milk and water, with a pinch of salt ; pour it into a saucepan, and boil gently for ten or twrelve minutes.139 OCHRE (RED), To Produce.—Calcine yellow ochre till it be- comes perfectly red, or nearly brown. It then becomes a good standing colour, and is much esteemed by painters. OIL (CAMPHORATED), To Make.—Pour into a mortar four ounces of Florence oil and a quarter of a pound of camphor. Beat together till the camphor is dissolved. Used as an outward application for sprains and rheumatic pains. OIL CLOTH, To Preserve.—Oil cloths may be kept like new for years by washing them over once a month with equal parts of skim milk and water ; rub them well once in three months with a small quantity of linseed oil, and polish with an old silk cloth. OIL PAINTINGS, To Clean.—To remove smoke or dirt from oil paintings dissolve a small quantity of salt in stale urine, dip a woollen cloth in the mixture, and rub the pictures with it till they are clean ; then rinse them with a sponge and Clearwater ; dry them gradually and rub them with a clean cloth. If the paintings are very dirty a little soft soap may be added to the above preparation ; but in any case care must be taken not to rub too hard. OIL PAINTINGS, To Restore.—When the painting has been varnished over with a view to its preservation, and the varnish has become discoloured, it is necessary in the first place to dissolve the varnish in order to remove it. This may be done by melting one ounce of soft soap in a quarter of a pint of water, brushing it over the picture, and allowing it to remain on for about half an hour. As soon as the varnish is dissolved remove it with a sponge and warm water. Great care must, however, be exercised in the manipulation, as the soap acts on the colours as well as on the varnish. When the picture is free from its artificial covering the pristine beauty of the colours may be restored by a coating of oxydised oil of tur- pentine. This may be made by putting the turpentine in a shallow vessel and exposing it to the full rays of the sun for two months, frequently agitating it during that period. OIL POLISH for Dining Tables.—Wash the table with turpentine, so as to eradicate any stains of grease that may be on it, and clean this off with linen rags. Dip a soft cloth in cold-drawn linseed oil, and apply it to every part of the surface ; let the oil remain on for about twelve hours ; then rub it well with a woollen cloth. As soon as it appears perfectly dry, apply linen rubbers to remove any moisture that may remain behind. In three or four days repeat the application of oil as before, and when this operation has been performed three or four times, sponge the top all over with lukewarm water ; wipe it quickly and dry with a soft cloth. The lustre may not come out as quickly as expected, but by perseverance a brilliant and lasting polish will be obtained, which will bid defiance to stains from hot dishes, fruits, or boiling water. This polish is not suitable for rosewood as it would render it too dark. OIL STAINS, To Remove.—Oil stains may be removed from dress materials of any kind, without injury to the colour, by means of pipe- clay, powdered and mixed with water to the consistence of cream. Let it remain on for four or five hours, then remove it and give the part a good brushing. They may be taken out of silk or satin by moistening both sides with benzine, or magnesia, and keeping it damp for a couple of hours, and, when dry, brushing it off. OLEANDERS, The General Treatment of.—The oleander must be treated as a greenhouse shrub. As it has a great tendency to bleed, the plant will not bear cutting, either for pruning or slipping purposes. It requires at all times a plentiful supply of water. Propagate by root-suckers, or by slips pulled off from the stem, and struck in a bottle of water, or in a light soil kept constantly wet.140 OLEOGRAPHS, MAPS, &c., To Mount.—White linen is the best for this purpose. Strain the linen over a clean flat board, fastening the edges down with a few tacks so as to free it from wrinkles ; damp it slightly with cold water, and let it remain for a short time ; then paste the back of the oleograph and rub it well down over the strained linen. Let this stand till quite dry, then sponge it over with vellum size, and when perfectly dry apply a smooth coating of white paper varnish. OLIVE BRONZE DIP.—Dissolve palladium or titanium in one part nitric acid and two parts muriatic acid, then to each pint of the solution add two gallons of clear soft water. OMELETTES AUX FINES HERBES.—These are made in the same manner as ordinary plain omelettes, and seasoned with minced herbs and a small quantity of shalot. OMELETTES (FRIARS’).—Pare, core, and boil about a dozen good-sized apples, with just sufficient water to keep them from burning ; stir in a quarter of a pound of butter and the same weight of white sugar. When cold add six eggs, well beaten. Scatter bread crumbs over the bottom and sides of a baking dish ; put in the apples, and dredge them with bread crumbs. When baked to a nice colour, turn the omelette out and strew caster sugar over it. OMELETTES (GERMAN).—Mix together a dessert-spoonful of corn flour, a teaspoonful of wheaten flour, and two tablespoonfuls of cold milk. Boil half a pint of milk with four or five lumps of sugar, stir it into the flour, and let it get thick over the fire, then add two well-beaten eggs. Melt half an ounce of butter, spread it over a couple of dishes, pour in the omelettes, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. When they are of a nice golden brown colour, remove them from the oven, spread over half of each a spoonful of strawberry jam, fold the other half over, cover with sifted sugar, and serve. OMELETTES (PLAIN).—Make a batter of eggs, milk, and a small quantity of flour ; add chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Fry in hot butter to a fine yellow on both sides. Roll, or double it up, and serve. They are best when quite hot. OMELETTES (SWEET).—Mix eight eggs with a gill of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little grated nutmeg ; sweeten to taste ; fry in butter, sprinkle with white sugar, and serve. ONION SOUP.—Slice two turnips and a couple of carrots, and put them into two quarts of mutton broth ; when the vegetables are tender strain the soup, and add half a dozen onions, previously cut into slices and fried to a nice brown ; simmer for three hours, skim, and serve. ONIONS (ROAST).—Remove the outer skin, put before the fire, and baste frequently with milk and butter. Garnish with beetroot and mashed potatoes, and serve with cold butter. ONIONS (SPANISH), To Pickle.—Cut them in slices and lay them in salt and water for a day; then put them to drain. Boil some vinegar with a good quantity of spice, and pour it upon the onions, adding a small piece of alum to each jar. ONIONS (STEWED).—Peel the onions, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them slowly to a fine brown, then stew them in broth for a couple of hours, adding salt and pepper to taste. ONIONS, To Grow.—Sow the seed on strong, well-manured, deeply-dug ground, from the end of February to the end of April, keeping them well thinned and free from weeds. The silver skinned, for pickling, should be sown in May on a poor soil. The Lisbon is sown in August, to draw for salad onions in the spring. The Tripoli and Rocca varieties are sown in August, transplanted in spring, and drawn in the August following.ONIONS, To Peel.—Onions may be peeled without causing un- easiness to the eyes of the peeler, by immersing them in warm water during the process ; and no smell will be left afterwards upon the hands. Or if peeled before a fire, the spirit of the onion will not get to the eyes. ONIONS, To Pickle.—Take two quarts of small silver-skinned onions and pour upon them some boiling hot strong salt and water, let them remain in the brine for a couple of days, then drain them dry. Pour into a saucepan sufficient white wine vinegar to well cover the pickles, and to each quart add one ounce of sliced horse-radish, one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of allspice, two ounces of mustard seed, and half an ounce of salt ; boil together for half an hour, and pour upon the onions ; the vinegar should be at least two inches above the vegetables. The pickle is mostly added cold, but some persons prefer to use it boiling hot. ONIONS, To Preserve.—Let the onions be well dried in the open air, then make a poker red hot and singe the roots to prevent prema- ture growth ; tie them on to straw bands, and hang them in a dry, cool room. ONIONS, To Remove the Smell of.—A cup of black coffee will remove the odour of onions from the breath. Parsley eaten with vinegar will likewise remove the unpleasant smell ; so also will four or five drops of the concentrated solution of chloride of soda, taken in a wineglassful of cold water. OPIATE INJECTION. —Mix eight ounces of assafoetida with one dram of tincture of opium, and insert with a syringe. This will relieve pain attended with disorders of the anus. OPIUM LOTION, for Painful Ulcers, &c.—Pour half a pint of boiling water on to two drams of bruised opium, and let it stand till it is cold. OPIUM, To Counteract the Evil Effects of.—Give some strong vinegar or lemon juice ; or a teaspoonful of sal volatile in a small cup of black coffee every half hour. All means must be resorted to to keep the patient awake for twelve hours after the poison is taken, for should he slumber it would probably end in death. OPODELDOC, for Sprains, &c.—Dissolve half an ounce of camphor in half a pint of spirits of wine ; then melt together two ounces of curd soap and two ounces of oil of rosemary. Mix. ORANGEADE.—Cut some oranges in halves, squeeze out the juice, and pour boiling water on half the peel, covering it close. Make a thick syrup by boiling sugar in water, skim it, and mix it with the juice and the infusion of peel, adding as much water as will make a rich sherbet. Strain through a jelly-bag. ORANGE BITTERS.—Take half an ounce of the yolk of eggs, half an ounce of gentian root, a dram and a half of Seville orange peel, and a pint of boiling water. Pour the water upon the other ingredients, let them steep for two hours, then strain, and bottle for use. ORANGE BRANDY.—Steep the peels of four or five oranges in a pint of pale brandy in a close vessel for two days. Boil six ounces of sugar in a pint and a half of water till it is reduced to half the quantity, let it cool, pour it into the brandy, and after it has stood for a fortnight put it into a decanter. ORANGE CHIPS.—Pare some oranges, soak the peel in salted water for twelve hours, then boil it in the liquor till tender ; drain, and cut it in slices. Squeeze the juice of the fruit through a sieve, and put it with the peel into a dish with its weight in sugar ; simmer till the chips candy, stirring at frequent intervals ; and set them in a cool room for three or four weeks, or till they are thoroughly dry.142 ORANGE PUDDING.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very soft, beat it in a mortar with the juice ; add two Naples biscuits grated, six ounces of fresh butter, six ounces of sugar, and six eggs well beaten ; mix well. Line a dish with paste, put in the orange mixture, lay bars of paste on the top, and bake for half an hour. ORANGE TART.—Pare the rind off two Seville oranges, boil it tender, beat it to a paste ; add the juice of the fruit, a pound of sugar, and two ounces of butter. Line a tart-pan or shallow dish with puff paste, add the orange pulp, and bake in a moderate oven. Orange tarts may also be made from orange marmalade. ORANGES, To Clean.—Put half a bushel of dry sawdust in a barrel, pour in two or three boxes of oranges, and then turn slowly upon a crank. The fruit will come out remarkably clean. ORANGES, To Preserve.—Boil the oranges first in salt and water, then boil them for ten minutes three successive days in a very thin syrup ; let them stand for eight weeks, after which give them a light boil in a thick syrup ; let them stand a day, then put them into jars with the syrup, cover a paper dipped in brandy over each pot and tie down with a bladder. When boiling, do not cover the saucepan. ORANGE TONIC.—Steep one ounce of orange peel, one ounce of camomile flowers, and a few cloves in a pint of boiling water. A wine- glassful to be taken in the same quantity of sherry wine. ORGEAT.—Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds and fifteen bitter, and pound them with a spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees a pint of milk mixed with the same amount of water, and strain the whole through a canvas bag. Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar in half a pint of water, skim it well, and mix it with the other ingredients ; add a glass of brandy and a spoonful of orange-flower water. ORMOLU.—Grind some fine brass to an impalpable powder, and mix with it seventy-five per centum of copper and twenty-five per centum of zinc. A higher colour may be obtained by adding gold lacquer to the above. OSTRICH FEATHERS, To Clean.—Dissolve four ounces of white soap in four pints of rather hot water ; work it into a lather, then immerse the feathers and rub briskly with the hand for five or ten minutes ; wash in clear water, as hot as can be borne by the hand, and shake them till dry. OX-CHEEK, Marinate of.—Take out the bones, and stew the meat with red wine and white wine vinegar ; season with salt and pepper. When tender, take it up, and put to the liquor in which it was stewed, a pint of sherry wine, a bunch of rosemary, two bay leaves, sage, parsley, marjoram, thyme, a few pepper corns, and a little sliced ginger. Boil these together ; strain, and pour the liquor over the meat. Serve garnished with sliced lemon. OX-CHEEK (POTTED).—Take the fleshy part of the cheek after it is stewed, season with pepper and salt, and beat it very fine in a mortar with a small quantity of fat skimmed off the gravy ; press it into pots and pour over it mutton fat or clarified butter. OX-CHEEK (STEWED).—Cleanse the cheek and lay it in luke- warm water for three or four hours, then soak it in cold water for seven or sight hours ; wipe it clean, put it into a stew-pot with three quarts of water, and after it has boiled a few moments skim it well and let it simmer for two hours, and then put with it two whole onions, a couple of turnips, two sliced carrots, a bundle of sweet herbs, and pepper, salt, garlic, and leek to taste. Let the whole stew till the meat and vegetables are tender, re- moving the scum as it rises. Take out the cheek, divide it into suitable pieces for the table ; let the stew cool, and remove the fat. Warm the143 whole again ; colour the soup with caramel, and serve either separately or with the meat. A little mushroom ketchup or a glass of port wine imparts a fine flavour to the soup. OXEN, To Prevent them Jumping Fences.—Clip off the eyelashes from the under lids with a pair of scissors, and the disposition to jump will be effectually destroyed. The animal will not attempt a fence until the eyelashes are grown again, when they should be clipped once more. OXFORD CAKES.—Flour, three pounds ; butter, three-quarters of a pound ; salt, one teaspoonful ; cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce ; nut- meg, cloves, and mace, finely powdered, of each a small quantity ; sugar, six ounces ; cream, one pintmountain wine, one glassful; ambergris, one grain ; eggs, four ; rosewater, half a gill ; ale yeast, half a pint. Knead well, stand it near the fire, and when well risen, add half a pound of minced sultanas and a pound and a half of dried currants. Bake in a slow oven. Mix a little rose-water with an egg, with which cover the top of the cake, sift over some caster sugar, and put into the oven to dry. OXFORD PUDDINGS.—Breadcrumbs, four ounces; currants and suet, of each a quarter of a pound ; sugar, a dessert-spoonful; grated lemon peel and allspice, of each a small quantity. Mix the whole with four eggs, make into balls, and fry in batter to a light brown. Serve with sweet sauce, or butter sauce with a glass of rum stirred into it. OXFORD SAUSAGES.—Mince one pound of lean pork, one pound of veal, and one pound of fat pork ; add one pound of breadcrumbs, some thyme, parsley, sage, shalot or garlic, marjoram, nutmeg, pepper, and salt Mix the whole with a yolk of a well-beaten egg and as much of the white as is required to moisten the bread ; then press into skins, or simply roll them into shape and broil over the fire, or fry in fresh butter. OX-GALL (PREPARED).—Boil one ounce of alum in a pint of fresh gall until the former is dissolved ; then boil an ounce of salt in a quart of fresh gall. Keep the two solutions bottled separately for three months ; pour off the clear, mix them together ; let them settle, and decant the pure gall. OX-TAIL SOUP.—Cut a good-sized ox-tail into several pieces and fry brown in butter. Slice three onions and two carrots, and when the ox-tail is removed from the pan fry these brown also. When done tie them in a bag with a bunch of thyme and drop into the soup pot. Lay the pieces of ox-tail in the same. Cut two pounds of lean beef into small slices ; grate over them two whole carrots, and add four quarts of cold water, with pepper and salt. Boil gently from four to six hours, according to the size of the tail. Strain a quarter of an hour before serving it. Thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour, boil ten minutes longer, put in two lumps of sugar and a glass of port wine, and serve at once. OX TONGUES.—See Beef Tongues. OYSTERS AU CITRON.—Open the oysters, leaving them in their bottom shells, and squeeze over them some fresh lemon juice and a little soluble cayenne. OYSTER FRITTERS.—Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, the same as for pancakes, and slightly season it with nutmeg. Pour it into a pan containing plenty of hot lard, drop in the oysters, after bearding them, and fry them a delicate brown. Serve in a dish on a folded napkin. OYSTER PATTIES.—Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill each with a piece of bread, put on the crust, and bake. Cut up the oysters and simmer them for a few minutes in some of their liquor ; with a little cream, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt ; then remove the top crust of the patties, take out the bread, fill with the simmered oysters, place the crust on again, and serve.144 OYSTER POWDER, for Sauce, &c.—Take three dozen oysters, put them into a mortar with a quarter of an ounce of salt, pound them well, and rub them through the back of a hair sieve. Dry the mortar, put the oysters into it again with half a pound of flour ; mix to a paste, roll it out the thickness of a penny, and bake it in a gentle oven until it begins to crumble ; then pound, sift, put into bottles, and seal over the corks. OYSTERS (BROILED).—Dip them in flour and put them over a clear fire on a buttered gridiron. When done put a piece of butter on each, and serve as quickly as possible. OYSTERS (CURRIED), Indian Style.—Melt some butter in a saucepan, put to it an onion cut into thin slices, and fry it a rich brown colour ; stir in more butter with a spoonful of curry powder, then add gradually some good broth. When the whole has boiled up, add a minced apple and some grated cocoanut ; simmer till the apple is dissolved, then add salt according to taste, and thicken with flour ; boil for five minutes, and add the oysters with the liquor which comes from them ; simmer for a few minutes, then add a little lemon juice. Stir frequently till the oysters are done, and serve accompanied with boiled rice. OYSTERS (FRIED).—Make a light batter with flour, eggs, and milk; add a little nutmeg, mace, shred parsley, and bread crumbs ; dip the oysters in, and fry them to a light brown. OYSTERS (PICKLED).—Choose large oysters for this purpose. Simmer them very gently in their own liquor for ten minutes, adding a little vinegar, white wine, mace, and pepper. Put them into a jar, one by one, so that no grit may adhere to them, and let them stand till cold; then strain the liquor and pour over them, and keep closely covered with a bladder. OYSTERS (SCALLOPED).—Butter some tin scallop shells, strew in a layer of grated bread, cover the bread with thin slices of butter, and upon these lay the oysters. Pepper the whole well, add a little of the liquor kept from the oysters, put butter over the whole surface, and bake in a quick oven. Brown them with a salamander, and serve in their shells. Time, a quarter of an hour. A tart dish might be substituted for the scallop shells, and an iron shovel made red hot would answer the pur- pose of a salamander. OYSTER SOUP.—Pound ina mortar the yolks of ten hard-boiled eggs and the hard parts of a quart of oysters, put into a saucepan with two quarts of fish stock, and simmer for half an hour. Take out the oysters, cut off the beards and wash the fish ; strain the liquor, and simmer the oysters in it for five minutes longer ; then have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup, Stir one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil, and serve all to- gether. If stock be not at hand, cut up a pound of skate, two pounds of eels, and three or four flounders, and stew them together for an hour before adding the oysters, substituting this fish broth for the stock. OYSTERS (STEWED).—Wash the oysters in their own liquor, and wipe them dry ; then strain the liquor, and pour it into a saucepan ; add the oysters, with a bit of lemon peel, mace, and a few whole peppers. Simmer very gently ; thicken with cream, flour, and butter, and serve with sippets of toast. OYSTERS, To Choose.—The small-shelled Byfleet, Colchester, and Milford oysters, generally known as “ natives," have the finest flavour and are mostly eaten raw ; while the large “ rock’’ oysters are chosen for stews, sauces, pies, &c. The harder the shell is to open the more healthy is the fish ; but when the shell remains open on touching it, the fish is dead and unfit for food.OYSTERS, To Fatten.—Wash the shells clean and lay them in a pan, cover them with salt water and add a few spoonfuls of oatmeal. Change the water each day. PiEONIES.—There are two distinct varieties of this plant, the herbaceous and the tree species. The herbaceous kinds die down to the roots every autumn, are all quite hardy, and are suitable for bedding in masses or for borders. They delight in a deep, sound, alluvial soil, and the duration of their bloom is prolonged by a slight protection from the shade of trees. They are readily propagated by root division. The tree paeonies require a deep alluvial soil, with an admixture of heath mould or silver sand. It is advisable to protect them from frosts by means of canvas, as their flower-buds are in danger of being cut off at an early period. They may be multiplied by cuttings detached at their insertion on the stem, by slips of the root, or by layers half cut through behind each bud. They do not strike so expeditiously as those of the herbaceous kinds, but once established they require no pruning and only a minimum amount of attention. PAIN KILLER, A Popular.—Put into a bottle one pint of alcohol, half an ounce of gum-guaicum, a quarter of an ounce of myrrh, and the same amount each of camphor and cayenne ; shake occasionally for ten days, then filter for use. This will not only relieve external pains, but taken in doses of one teaspoonful is effectual in removing internal throes. PAINTERS’ COLIC, To Relieve.—Administer salts or othei aperient medicine, and apply bags of hot salt or hot bran to the stomach until the pain abates. Let the diet be low and sparing. As this disease is a dangerous one, it will at all times be advisable to call in medical aid, but in the meantime the above remedies may be resorted to. PAINT (FIREPROOF).—Mix furnace slag with boiling acid until a jelly-like substance is produced, of which take sixteen parts and mix with eight parts of silicia, twenty-three parts of oxide of zinc, twenty-three of silicate of soda, and thirty of lime water ; the product to be added to the colours or varnishes as desired. This will render the wood with which it is covered both incombustible and impervious to moisture. Another method :—Grind in oil one part of fine sand, two parts of wood ashes, and three parts of slaked lime. Give to the work two coats, one thin and the next thick. PAINT, Solvent for.—See Putty and Paint, Solvent for Old. PAINT, To Clean.—Take a small quantity of whiting on a damp flannel, rub slighdy over the surface, and rinse with clear water. The effect will be surprising. PAINT, To Destroy the Smell of.—Place in the newly-painted room a vessel full of lighted charcoal, and throw on it a couple of handfuls of juniper berries. Shut the windows, chimney, and door close for twenty- four hours, by which time the unwholesome smell will be entirely gone. It need scarcely be said that no person must remain in the room while the charcoal is burning. PAINT (VARNISHED).—See Varnish for Paint. PAINTINGS (REVERSIBLE).—Paint a winter landscape, or other appropriate subject, with ordinary colours ; then make a dilute solu- tion of cobalt in nitro-muriatic acid, and with this paint the snow and a foliage to the trees, and let it dry. When brought near the fire the solution will become a green colour, and thus change the wintry appearance of the view into one of summer ; when cold the picture will resume its former appearance. PALETTES (WOODEN), To Prepare.—By rubbing in as much raw linseed oil as the palette can be made to imbibe, and allowing it 20146 to dry thoroughly, the wood will not afterwards absorb the colours. It should be kept free from scratches and indentations, and the colour never allowed to harden upon it. As a palette thus prepared has a hard and polished surface, no difficulty will be found in cleaning off the colours. PALPITATION OF THE HEART, To Relieve.—Socotrine aloes, gum-mastic, and powdered rhubarb, of each one scruple; make into a dozen pills, and take one before and one after dinner. Mix together six drams of ammoniated tincture of valerian and seven ounces of camphor mixture. A fourth part to be taken three times a day. Chalk has likewise a very quieting effect upon the heart, and can be obtained by the poorest person. PANADA FOR FARCES.—Soak in milk the crumbs of a twopenny roll for about half an hour, then squeeze out all the milk and put the crumbs into a stew-pan with a little bechamel (see Sauce) and a spoonful of stock or gravy. Put into a small saucepan a little butter, a small piece of ham, some parsley, a few small shallots, and some mush- rooms ; fry them gently over a slow fire ; when done moisten with a spoon- ful of broth ; let it boil for twenty minutes, then drain the broth through a sieve over the bread crumbs ; stir constantly till quite dry, then add a little butter, let it dry again, then add the yolks of two eggs, and pour it out on a plate to cool. When cold roll it into balls. PANADA FOR INVALIDS.—Boil a little lemon peel in water, sweeten it with sugar, and flavour with nutmeg ; add some bread crumbs, and boil it quickly till it is just thick enough to drink, then serve. This makes a good food for an invalid. PANCAKES.—Take some eggs, flour and milk, nutmeg, and ginger, and a little salt ; make them into a light batter, and fry in a small pan with dripping or lard. Sprinkle the pancakes with sugar and lemon juice, roll them up, and serve very hot. When eggs are scarce a little small beer may be substituted. The addition of cream will make them white, or they may be coloured with beetroot, boiled tender, and then mashed. PANSIES OR HEART’S-EASE, The Culture of.—There are many varieties of this effective flower, ranging in colour from a milky-white to a deep purple. They require a rich, light, well-drained, but yet not a dry, soil. They may be multiplied by cuttings, taken in spring, from the ends of the shoots, slipping them off just below a joint; or they may be increased by root division. They require plenty of air and sunshine to bring their bloom to perfection. PAPER (CARBON), for Duplicate Writing.—Mix some lamp- black and sweet oil, and apply it with a piece of felt to the surface of thin or tissue paper ; or in making a quantity, draw the sheets through a bath of the mixture. When perfectly dry, they may be used in the following way :—Place on a table a sheet of oiled paper (see below), cover it with the carbon paper, and on the top of this put a sheet of white paper ; arrange another set of sheets in precisely the same order, and with a pencil write upon the upper sheet, bearing rather hard on the same. In this manner some six or nine copies can be obtained, according to the substance of the paper used. PAPER (FIREPROOF).—If paper be saturated with alum it will not easily take fire, but it will resist the moisture of the air. PAPER (OILED), for Duplicate Writing.—Put upon a table three or four sheets of thin paper, and with a brush dab some sweet oil over the surface ; cover these with three or four other sheets, applying oil in the same manner as before ; repeat the process till all the paper is used up, then place a board on the top, and on this put a heavy weight; let it remain*47 for two or three days, then if the oil has distributed itself all over the sur- face, hang the sheet on a line to dry. PAPER (OILED), for Jar-Pots, Wrappers, &c.—Dissolve over a slow fire a little shellac in boiled oil; brush it over the papers and hang them to dry. Paper prepared in this manner is waterproof. Great care must be exercised while the oil is over the fire, to see that it does not boil over. PAPER, To Remove Grease Spots from.—Grease spots may be removed from paper in the following manner Place a piece of blotting- paper over the stain and rub it with a hot iron. Repeat this several times, then apply with a soft brush to both sides of the paper a little oil of turpen- tine, and afterwards some rectified spirits of wine. PAPER, To Remove Ink Spots from.—Ink spots may be removed from paper by the application of a solution of citric, tartaric, or oxalic acid. The spot to which the solution is applied is first carefully moistened with cold distilled water, the acid is then applied with a camel’s hair brush, and as the ink is discharged it is blotted up with blotting-paper. When all the stain has disappeared, the place is carefully washed with lime water or good soft water. Oxalic acid must not be used for removing stains from blue paper, as it leaves a white mark. PAPER, To Stain any Colour.—Paper or parchment maybe stained any colour by using the same dye as given hereafter under the heading of Wood. PAPER (TRACING).—Dissolve Canada balsam in spirits of wine and a little turpentine; brush the mixture on to white tissue paper, and hang each sheet separately on a line to dry. PAPIER-MACHE, To Clean.—Sponge the articles with cold water ; while still damp sprinkle them with flour or whiting, dry them with a flannel, and finish off with a soft cloth or silk handkerchief. PAPIER-MACHE, To Manufacture.—Take the cuttings of white or brown paper, boil them in water and beat them to a pulp. Then boil it with a solution of gum-arabic, or of size, to give it tenacity, and press it into oiled moulds. When dry give it first a coating of size and lamp-black, and afterwards of varnish. PARAFFIN, To Test.—Pour a few drops into a spoon or saucer and apply a lighted match ; if the oil ignites it must be regarded as dan- gerous and likely to prove explosive. Genuine paraffin will extinguish the flame, as it will bum only on a wick. PARCHMENT FOR PAINTING, To Prepare.—Make a firm pad with listing, dip it into finely-powdered white pumice stone, and rub it over the parchment. If water colours are mixed with alum water and used upon parchment thus prepared the tints will not sink. PARCHMENT SIZE.—Wash a pound of parchment cuttings in two or three lots of cold water; put them into a saucepan with four quarts of soft cold water, and allow them to simmer gently to one-half the quantity ; then strain through a fine sieve or piece of muslin. PAREGORIC ELIXIR.—Infuse for four days half an ounce of flowers of benzoin and two drams of opium in one pound of volatile aro- matic spirits ; then strain off. Dose : For an adult, fifty or sixty drops in a wineglass of water ; for a child fourteen years of age, from twenty-five to thirty drops ; for one four years old, fifteen drops. PARROTS.—These birds are fed upon rape seed, soaked bread and biscuits, boiled potatoes, and occasionally a bone upon which a little cayenne pepper has been sprinkled ; they also eat most kind of nuts with a relish. They require to be kept very clean, and it is not a bad practice .to give148 them once a week a shower bath from a garden watering pot. They ara taught to speak most readily by covering the cage and repeating to them slowly and distinctly the sounds they are required to learn. PARSLEY (DRIED).—Pick the parsley in dry weather, spread it on a plate and bake it in a moderate oven, turning it frequently. When sufficiently dry, rub it between the palms of the hands, pick out all the stalks, and keep it in a closely-corked bottle in a dry situation. It answers many purposes for which fresh parsley it used, and saves the time and trouble of chopping. PARSLEY, To Grow.—Sow the seed in drills from February till the end of May, and again in August, thinning out by plucking up the weak plants so as to allow the stronger ones plenty of room to grow. The curled is used for garnishing and the plain for culinary purposes, though either will answer the latter end. PARSNIPS, To Grow.—Sow the seed, in a rich, deep soil, in rows fourteen or fifteen inches apart, and thin out to nine inches between the plants. PARSNIPS, To Stew.—Boil them in milk and water till they are tender, then scrape and cut into slices ; put them back into the saucepan with a cupful of cream, and when the cream boils pour them into a dish and serve with butter sauce. PARTRIDGE PIE.—Lay slices of veal and bacon at the bottom of a dish, and sprinkle them with parsley, onions, and mushrooms, all chopped very fine. If the partridges have been boned rub the seasoning on the inside of the birds, adding some fine bread crumbs ; lay the birds on the veal, cover them with slices of fat bacon, put in a few spoonfuls of good stock, cover with a crust, and bake. PARTRIDGES (BOILED).—Put them into a good quantity of water and boil them for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes—a large bird will require twenty-five minutes. Serve with cream sauce poured over them. PARTRIDGES (ROAST).—Partridges are roasted in the same manner as turkeys, but they should not be stuffed. When underdone, dredge them with flour, and baste with butter. Send to table with a fine froth, with the gravy in the dish, accompanied with bread crumbs browned before the fire, or with bread sauce. If preferred stuffed it should be with truffles and bacon. PARTRIDGES, To Carve.—Partridges are carved in the same way as fowls. The wing is considered the best part and the tip of the wing the choicest morsel. After this come the breast and merrythought, which are generally served to one person. PARTRIDGES, To Choose.—A young partridge has a dark bill and yellowish legs ; when old their bills turn white and their legs blue. When fresh the vent is firm ; when stale, this part goes green. PASTE FOR PAPER, A Strong.—To half a quartern of flour add sufficient cold water to form a good thick paste ; beat it perfectly free from lumps, then dissolve one ounce of alum in three quarts of boiling water ; pour it quickly, while still boiling, on to the paste, and stir round briskly till it thickens. PASTE (PERMANENT), for Paper.—Make a paste with flour and water, boil it until it is rather thick, then let it cool, and to each half pint add fifteen grains of corrosive sublimate, previously powdered in a mortar. Mix the whole thoroughly and keep in a covered pot. It will remain good for an indefinite period. PASTE STONES, for Jewellery.—Fine white sand, six pounds; red lead, four pounds; purified pearl-ashes, three pounds ; nitre, twoM9 pounds ; arsenic, five ounces ; and manganese, one scruple. Powder and fuse the whole. By means of calces of metal various colours may be com- municated, so as to imitate emeralds, rubies, sapphires, and every other species of precious stone. PASTILLES, for Fumigating Rooms.—Gum-benzoin, olibanum, frankincense, and mastic, of each one ounce ; charcoal, one pound and a half; gum-tragacanth, four drams ; water, sufficient to make the mixtute, when pounded, into a paste. Another way:—Gum-benzoin, one pound ; cloves, half an ounce ; cin- namon, two drams ; gum-water, enough to make it into a paste. Or, storax and benzoin, of each four ounces; sandal wood and labda- num, of each one ounce ; charcoal, twenty-four ounces ; and gum-water, sufficient to form into a paste. Divide the paste into small cones, and put them into an oven till quite dry. PASTRY (FLAKY).—Put a pound of flour into a basin, mix in a saltspoonful of salt, then rub in with the tips of the fingers a quarter of a pound of shortening until there are no lumps left. Add very gradually half a pint of cold water, mixing with a knife into a soft, crumbly mass ; then knead it lightly. Sprinkle the board with flour, turn out the paste, and roll it as thin as possible. On half of the paste put two ounces of butter, spreading it in pieces over the surface ; lightly flour it, turn the other half over, and roll it out thin again. On this spread another two ounces of butter, flour it, fold it over, and roll out to the desired thickness for the tarts. PASTRY (PUFF).—Beat out the water from ten ounces of butter, and rub two ounces of it into a pound of flour till it is quite fine, then add a pinch of salt. Whisk the white of an egg, and mix with it the juice of a lemon and a small quantity of water ; stir this into the flour to make a paste ; roll it out, and be careful to roll it one way only. Roll out the remainder of the butter, lay it on the paste, sift a little flour over it and the rolling pin, fold the paste into three and roll it twice. Let it lie on a marble slab or in a cool place for ten or twelve hours, and again roll it out before using it. The paste should be made in a cool room and handled as lightly as possible. Bake in a quick oven. PASTRY, To Make Good.—In making pastry for pies, &c., do not melt the shortening. Mix it as cold as possible, and knead it through the flour. Melting it injures the crust. PEACHES (PRESERVED).—Wipe and pick the fruit, then make a thin syrup with a quarter of their weight of fine sugar in powder, sufficient to cover them, and boil them in this till they are soft to the finger- nail. Have ready a rich syrup, and when they are taken from the fire add this, with the same quantity of hot brandy as syrup. Put the fruit into jars, place a piece of paper saturated with sweet oil over the fruit, and cover the tops of the jars with white paper dipped in gum-water. This latter pressed around the top of the jar will become quite firm when dry. PEARLS (TINCTURE OF), for the Skin.—Put into half a gallon of boiling water a quarter of a pound of Windsor soap, scraped very fine ; stir it until the soap is all dissolved, let it stand till nearly cold, then add half a pint of rectified spirits of wine and a quarter of an ounce of oil of rosemary. Stir well. This cosmetic will remove freckles. PEARLS, To Remove Stains from.—These gems may be cleansed from external foulness by washing with ground rice and salt, or with Venice soap and warm water, with starch and powdered blue, with sulphate of zinc and tartar, with cuttle-bone, pumice-stone, and other similar sub- stances ; but it is not practicable to remove a stain which reaches deep into the substance of the pearl.150 PEARS (BAKED).—Lay some hard pearson a tin plate and bake very slowly in a slack oven. When sufficiently soft, press them flat with a wooden spoon, and put them back into the oven to finish. They should be done with the skins on. PEARS (STEWED).—Peel the pears and cut them in quarters throwing them into cold water as they are done, so as to preserve their colour. Put them into a stew-pan with sugar enough to sweeten ; add a little lemon peel and a few cloves ; cover them with water, and stew them tender, which will take three or four hours. Serve with the liquor poured over them. PEARS, To Preserve.—Remove the peel and simmer the fruit in a thin syrup. Let them stand for a couple of days, then make the syrup richer ; simmer again, and repeat till they are clear ; dry in the sun or in a very cool oven. The fruit may be kept in the syrup and dried as wanted. PEAS (EVERLASTING).—These are very useful and effective plants for covering a trellis or running round an arbour or verandah. If planted in a well-drained hazel loam they will run up to the height of eight or nine feet, and require but little attention. They may be freely propagated by division of the root, or by seed when this is obtainable, for as a rule they do not bear seed very readily. PEAS (GREEN), To Boil.—Shell the peas just before they are to be cooked ; put a little salt into some boiling water, and when it is dissolved, put in the peas, and let them boil quickly for about twenty minutes, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered. When tender, drain, put into a tureen, and stir in gently butter, pepper, and salt. PEAS (GREEN), To Preserve.—Shell the peas, put them into a stew-pan with spring water, and directly they boil let them drain on a sieve. Then pound the pods with a little of the water in which the peas were boiled, and strain the juice which comes from them. Boil this juice for about ten minutes with a little salt and as much water as will cover the pea«. Put the peas into bottles, pour this green water over them, and when cold tie tightly down with a bladder or leather cover. Keep in a dry place. PEA SOUP.—One pint of split peas, six good-sized onions, two carrots, the outside sticks of two heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few small pieces of bacon, pepper and salt, and three quarts of spring water. Boil the vegetables together till they are tender, strain through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it. Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery, a teaspoonful of pepper, a little dried mint and fried bread, and a little spinach. Time, three hours. PEA SOUP (GREEN).—Chop up two or three lettuces, and put them into a saucepan with a couple of sliced cucumbers, a pint of peas, a sprig of mint, a little parsley, and an onion. Stew for half an hour, then add a quart of thin gravy or stock, stew for two hours longer, and thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. PEAS PUDDING.—Tie a quart of split peas up loosely in a cloth, put them into a saucepan of hot water, and boil for two hours, or until tender ; then take them out, beat them up in a dish with a little salt, the yolk of an egg, and a piece of butter. When quite smooth tie them up again and boil for one hour longer. PEAS (SWEET).—These showy flowers deserve a place in every garden. It is a good plan to mix the seeds of the different varieties, so as to produce a good display of colour. They will grow in almost any soil, all that is necessary being to sow them in the open ground in February or March, and to stick the plants when they are two or three inches high.PEAS, To Cultivate.—For an early crop a sowing of Early Warwicks, Emperors, or Ringleaders may be made in November. The next sowing should be made early in February, and from that time succes- sive sowings may be made every three weeks of Marrowfats or any other varieties till the end of June. The wrinkled peas should be sown during April and May. For very late crops sow the early varieties. They are all planted in drills from two feet and a half to three feet and a half asunder, according to their growth. Those sown from November to February will be ready to gather in May or June ; those planted in March or April may be gathered in June and July ; and those planted in April or May will be ready in August and September. PENCIL DRAWINGS, To Fix.—Lay the drawing on its face upon a sheet of white paper, and brush the back with a solution made by dissolving pale rosin in spirits of wine. In a few minutes it will penetrate through the paper, and as the spirit evaporates the rosin will be deposited as a varnish on the drawing. By this method the paper does not cockle, and the pencilling is in no way injured. This process will not, however, answer for drawings on card, as the solution cannot properly make its way through. In this case, as in drawings upon very thick paper, a weak solution of isinglass may be placed in a shallow dish and the drawing be passed through it, so as to wet every part without touching it with a brush. PEPPERMINT DROPS.—Crush and sift four ounces of white sugar, add the whites of two eggs, and beat it till the whole is perfectly smooth, then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint ; beat it up again, let it fall in drops upon a slab, and dry them at a distance from the fire. PEPPERMINT WATER.—Pour three quarts of boiling water into a jug and let it remain until lukewarm ; then add three pennyworth of oil of peppermint, sweeten to taste, keep stirring till quite cold, and pour into bottles for use. PEPPER (WHITE), To Prepare.—Steep whole black pepper in sea water and expose it to the heat of the sun for several days till the rind or outer bark loosens, then dry the white fruit and blow away the rind like chaff. PERCH (BOILED).—Put into a stew-pan a good quantity of parsley, a few carrots and two or three green onions cut into fillets, and a few pepper-corns tied in a muslin bag. Cover with water and boil for half an hour ; then remove the pepper-corns, and having emptied and washed the fish, put it into the stew-pan and boil quickly for about ten minutes. The red fins should be cut from their natural position and stuck in the middle of the fish. Serve in a deep dish, with the liquor poured over the fish ; or it may be sent to table with melted butter and soy, or with Dutch ScLUCC* PERCH (FRIED).—Remove the gut and wash them in clear water, wipe dry with a cloth, dust them with flour, and fry in hot fat. Serve with butter and parsley. PERFUME, A Pleasant.—To half a pint of spirits of wine, add a quarter of an ounce of camphor, three drams of oil of bergamot, three drams of oil of lavender, one dram of ambergris, and one dram of civet. Cork, shake frequently for ten days, then filter and pour into small bottles. PERFUME SATCHELS FOR CLOTHES.—Take of cloves, caraway seeds, nutmegs, mace, cinnamon, and Tonquin beans, of each one ounce, and add as much Florentine orris-root as will equal the other ingredients put together. Grind the whole to a powder and put into small bags. This will not only make a pleasant perfume, but will keep away moths.152 PERFUME SATCHELS FOR LINEN.—Rose leaves dried in the shade, cloves beat to a powder, and scraped mace. Mix them together and put the composition into bags. PERIWINKLE, Major and Minor.—These trailing evergreens are very suitable for covering banks, &c,, and as they produce an abundance of light blue flowers during the spring they are sometimes used as edgings. They are easily multiplied by cuttings of their creeping roots set in light, moist soil in a somewhat shady position. PERRY.—This drink is obtained from pears in the same manner that cider is made from apples, with the exception that after it has been made a few days it requires to be drawn from its grosser lees. It should be kept in an equable temperature, and is better preserved in bottles than in the cask. PERSIAN MEAT CAKES.—Beat in a mortar some lean muttOD ; season with the juice of onions, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt ; roll the mass into flat cakes ; press them between two dishes for twelve hours, then fry in lard, and serve with fresh butter. PERSPIRATION, Dover’s Powder for Exciting.—Purified nitre, half an ounce ; vitriolated tartar, half an ounce ; opium, one dram ; ipecacuanha, one dram. Reduce the whole to a fine powder. Dose: Half a dram in a copious draught of warm liquor. PERSPIRATION, To Promote a Profuse.—To six grains of compound antimonial powder, add two grains of ipecacuanha and two grains of sugar. Mix, and take at bedtime. Useful in catarrh, fever, and influenza. Or take in gruel, two grains of ipecacuanha powder, ten grains of salt- petre, and half a grain of purified opium. PERSPIRATION, To Remedy Profuse.—Take nutritious and a rather generous diet, with a tonic of citrate of iron and quinine. Locally the skin should be washed with juniper tar soap and sponged from time to time with a lotion containing one part liquid ammonia and three parts water. A foreign physician has found the following a cure in many cases :— Take of powdered sage leaves a large teaspoonful, boil them gently for five minutes in six ounces of water, strain, sweeten to taste, and take a third part three times daily. The following is also recommended:—To a wineglassful of water add two drams of compound spirits of camphor and forty drops of diluted sulphuric acid. Dose: One tablespoonful twice a day. PETTITOES, OR PIGS’ FEET (BOILED).—Put the feet, with the heart and liver, into a stew-pan, cover with water, and boil for ten minutes ; then take out the heart and liver, mince them small, put them back into the stew-pan, and boil till the meat is tender ; thicken with flour and butter, season with pepper and salt, and serve with sippets of toast. Pile the minced meat in the centre of the dish, and lay the feet round. See also Pig’s Feet. PEWTER, To Clean.—Put some fine Calais sand in a strong solution of soda, add a little oil of tartar. Scour the articles with the mix- ture, wipe dry, and polish with a leather dipped in whiting. PHEASANTS (ROAST).—Truss them nicely, spit them, and roast in the same way as a turkey is done. A small bird takes about thirty minutes. Serve with fine gravy flavoured with garlic, and bread sauce. PHEASANTS (STEWED).—Put them into a stew-pan, cover with veal stock, and stew till there is enough liquor left for sauce ; skim, add some parboiled artichoke bottoms, mace, pepper, salt, and a glass of wine; thicken the sauce with a piece of butter rolled in flour and add a153 little lemon juice. Put the pheasants into dishes, pour the sauce over, and decorate with forcemeat balls. PHEASANTS, To Choose.—The cock bird is mostly preferred, though the hens are in general more delicate. The male bird shows his age by his spurs. If young, these are short and blunt, but if old they are long and sharp. • They should be kept six or seven days after they are killed. When blood begins to run from the bills they are fit for table. PHLOXES.—These are in general robust plants, varying con- siderably in size; will grow in any ordinary garden soil, and are readily increased by division of the stool, cuttings, or seed sown in light, rich loam. PHOTOGRAPHS, Mountants for.—Soak some best glue in cold water till soft; put it into an earthen jar, and place the jar in a saucepan of water. When quite thin, add gradually methylated spirit, stirring well between each addition until quite clear. Indiarubber solution thinned with benzole will also answer the pur- pose. PICKLES (MIXED).—Cut up some white cabbage, cauliflowers, garlic, and celery, and put them into the best white wine vinegar with some gherkins, French beans, small button onions, nasturtiums, and capsicums. To each gallon of vinegar used add three ounces of salt, half a pound of flour of mustard, two ounces of turmeric, three ounces of sliced ginger, one ounce of cloves, half an ounce each black and long pepper, and two drams of cayenne, steeping the spices in vinegar on the stove for two or three days. The mustard and turmeric are sometimes mixed with vinegar before they are added. The pickle should be kept at least a year before sending it to table. PICKLES, To Detect the Presence of Copper in.—Put a portion of the pickles in a small bottle with a few drams of liquid ammonia diluted with half the quantity of water ; shake it for a few moments, when, if copper be present, the whole will turn to a fine blue colour. PICKLING, Hints on.—In pickling it is highly necessary to avoid the use of metallic vessels, as these would rapidly become corroded and poisonous, from the effects of both the vinegar and brine. Common glazed earthenware should also be avoided, either for making or keeping the pickles in, as the glazing usually contains lead. The best malt or white wine vinegar is mostly used, though wood or distilled vinegar will effect the purpose. Both brine and vinegar may be best heated or boiled in stoneware, by the heat of a water bath or a stove. For early use the vegetables should be steeped in hot or boiling brine, as they will thus be ready for use in a much shorter time ; but this method is not recommended for cabbage or onions, as it deprives them of their crispness. PIG’S CHEEK (BOILED).—Sprinkle each side of the cheek with bread crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; tie it in a cloth, put into a saucepan of cold water, and simmer gently till done. If the cheek has been dried it will need soaking for several hours before it is cooked. PIG’S FEET AND EARS (FRIED).—Soak them for three or four hours, and boil them tender. Then take them up, and boil with a portion of the liquor some vinegar and a little salt ; let stand till cold, then pour it over them, and let stand for several hours. Cut the feet in two, slice the ears, dip the pieces in batter, and fry. Serve with plain butter, mustard, and vinegar. PIG’S HEAD (BOILED).—Take a head which has been salted, and boil it gently an hour and a quarter. PIG’S HEAD (ROAST).—Boil until the flesh is sufficiently Sender to allow of the bones being taken out. After removing these, shape 21154 the head neatly and skewer it together firmly; next mix some powdered sage leaves with pepper and salt, and sprinkle the mixture over it. Hang it on a spit and roast it before a clear fire for half an hour, basting it well with seasoning. Serve on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured over it, and accompanied with apple sauce. PIG (SUCKING), To Carve a.—Remove the shoulders and legs by laying the knife under them, cutting through the flesh, and lifting them out; these maybe served whole or divided, according to the number sitting down to dine ; then divide the ribs. These latter being considered the choicest parts should be served to the ladies. PIG (SUCKING), To Roast a,—Scald the pig, and stuff it with bread crumbs, sago, pepper, and salt. Secure the legs back with a skewer ; lay it in front of a brisk fire till dry, then rub it all over with butter, dredge it with flour, and roast. When done, scrape off the flour, rub it over with a greasy cloth, garnish with lemons, and serve with butter sauce. PIGEON PIE.—Cut the pigeons open and rub them inside and out with pepper and salt. Make a stuffing of the livers, parsley, and seasoning, and lay a portion inside each bird ; then put a beef-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish, lay the birds on top, and place a hard-boiled egg between every couple, and a slice of ham on each pigeon ; pour a cup of water into the dish ; cover with a nice crust, and leave a couple of the feet sticking out, to indicate what the pie consists of. PIGEONS (BOILED).—Stuff them with bread crumbs, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and parsley, and boil for a quarter of an hour in mutton broth. Serve with rice boiled in milk and mixed with the yolks of a couple of eggs, well beaten. PIGEONS (BROILED).—Split them down the back, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and broil them a nice colour. Serve with stewed mushrooms in melted butter. PIGEONS (ROAST).—Stuff with parsley, bread crumbs, pepper and salt, and a little butter ; tie them tightly at the neck so that the stuffing cannot escape, hang before the fire, and baste very frequently with hot butter. Serve with the gravy from the dish. PIGEONS (STEWED).—Crop, draw, and wash the birds, and stew them in a rich brown gravy, highly seasoned with spice, with fresh mushrooms and a little ketchup. Serve with the gravy, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and two or three spoonfuls of cream. PIKE (BAKED) .—Put into a saucepan a few herbs, bread crumbs, oysters, two or three anchovies, the yolks of three or four eggs, half a pint of cream, mace, pepper, and salt; stir till it thickens; then cut a hole in the fish, as near the throat as possible, put in the stuffing, and sew it up. Put little dabs of butter all over the fish, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve with sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. PIKE (ROAST).—Scale and gut a large pike, and stuff it with bread crumbs, beef suet, thyme, savory, parsley, nutmeg, mace, and salt, mixed with raw eggs. Lard the fish with eel and bacon, put two laths on each side of the pike, and hang it before the fire to roast. Baste with butter beaten up with two or three anchovies. Garnish with lemon, and serve with butter. PIKE, To Carve.—Split up the back and belly, and cut each slice gently downwards. By this means fewer bones will be served. PILES (EXTERNAL), To Relieve.—Apply extract of lead to the part, and keep the bowels open gently with occasional doses of lenitive electuary. PILES (INTERNAL), Cure for.—To one ounce of Ethiop’s mineral add four ounces of treacle. One teaspoonful three times a day—i55 the first thing in the morning, an hour before dinner, and the last thing at night; to be well mixed each time it is taken. PILES, Ointment for the.—Hog’s lard, four ounces; powdered galls, one ounce ; laudanum, half an ounce ; and spirits of camphor, two drams. Mix, and apply at bed-time. PINKS, To Cultivate.—See Carnations. PIPER.—This fish is not nearly so popular as it deserves to be, for it is superior to most others. It is best when red, and should be used very fresh. It may be sent to table either baked or filleted in precisely the same way as soles or whiting, accompanied with white, sharp sauce or with tnaitre d'hdtel. PIPER (BAKED).—Empty and clean the fish, then make a good stuffing in the following manner:—Two handfuls of bread crumbs, the same quantity of beef suet well chopped, parsley, and a little thyme chopped very fine, two whole eggs, a little cream, a small bit of butter, salt, cayenne pepper, and a very little mixed spice ; mix well and put it into the belly of the fish, sew it up, and fasten the tail of the fish to the mouth with a skewer ; rub the fish all over with a brush dipped in egg ; sprinkle with salt and bread crumbs, and baste with clarified butter ; put it into a very hot oven, in order to give it a good colour. When done, drain, and serve with Dutch sauce. PLAICE OR FLOUNDERS (FRIED).—Sprinkle the plaice or flounders with salt, let them lie for twenty-four hours, then wash and wipe them dry. Brush them over with egg, dip them in bread crumbs ; make some lard boiling hot in a frying-pan, and stir in two tablespoonful3 of vinegar ; lay the fish in, and fry them a nice brown colour, drain them on a cloth, and serve on a folded napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Send to table with anchovy sauce. Time, five minutes. PLANTS (FROZEN), To Revive.—Should plants accidentally become frozen in the green-house, render the house as dark as possible, then thaw them with cold water. This will save many of the plants which would die if watered in the light. PLANTS, To Preserve Specimens of.—Spread the specimens out on sheets of blotting paper, carefully unfolding the flowers and leaves so that their beauty may be maintained. Arrange the sheets containing the plants one above the other, and place them in a tray or pan, covering them with a layer of dry sand about half an inch thick. Stand the tray before a good fire for three or four hours, and when the specimens are perfectly dry gum them on to cardboard and label them with all particulars. PLASTER (ADHESIVE).—Melt together half a pound of yellow rosin and a quarter of a pound of Burgandy pitch ; then spread it upon linen. Used to secure other dressings. PLASTER (ANODYNE).—Lead plaster, one pound; melt in a pipkin at a low heat; add coarsely powdered gum, three ounces ; mix, and then add of powdered opium, half an ounce, and water, eight fluid ounces. Boil to a proper consistence, then spread it on thin leather. PLASTER (BLISTERING).—Melt two ounces of yellow wax, and while it is warm add to it six ounces of Venice turpentine, three ounces of finely powdered Spanish flies, and one ounce of mustard ; stir till cold. PLASTER CASTS, To Bronze.—Give the figure a coating of size varnish, let it stand till nearly dry, then put some metallic bronze powder into a muslin bag, dust it over the surface, dab it with a linen wad, and when perfectly dry give a coating of oak varnish. PLASTER CASTS, To Harden.—Stearine, two parts; Venetian soap, two parts ; pearlash, one part; and a solution of caustic potash,twenty-four to thirty parts. Cut the stearine and soap into slices, mix them with a portion of the ley, and boil for half an hour, stirring con- stantly. Whenever the mass rises add a little more cold ley. Moisten the pearlash with rain water, add it to the whole, and boil up for a few minutes. Stir the mass till it is cold, then mix it with more of the cold ley, so that it becomes quite liquid and runs off the spoon without coagu- lating and contracting. Cover the composition over for a few days and it will then be ready for use. It will keep for years. Apply with a brush till the plaster will not absorb any more. When dry, dust it with a soft leather, and if the surface has not acquired a gloss apply another coating of the composition. PLASTER (COMMON).—Put into a pot three pints of olive oil and one pound and a quarter of finely-powdered litharge ; stand the pot in a saucepan of water, and boil gently over a slow fire, stirring continually for about three hours. Used to keep the air from slight wounds. PLASTER (GUM).—Common plaster, two pounds ; gum-am- moniac, four ounces ; galban, four ounces. Mix, and add gradually three ounces of Venice turpentine. Used to disperse indolent tumours. PLASTER OF PARIS, To Prevent it Setting.—Plaster of Paris may be prevented from setting for three or four hours by adding to it (before mixing with water) two per cent, of alum, sulphate of potash, or borax. By this method casts can be taken more easily, and when dry they present a greater resemblance to stone. PLASTER (STRENGTHENING).—To two-thirds of a pint of spirits of wine, add half a pound of yellow rosin, two ounces of bees- wax, and one ounce of cayenne pepper. Simmer slowly till the spirits are almost evaporated. Let it cool a little, then add one ounce of camphor, a dram and a half of oil of sassafras, and one dram of opium. PLATE POWDER.—Mix half an ounce of polisher’s putty with the same quantity of burnt hartshorn and an ounce of prepared chalk. PLATE, To Clean.—Plated wares, whether silver or gold, are best cleaned with a sponge and warm soapsuds, and wiped dry with a clean, soft towel or silk handkerchief; then mix some finely-sifted whiting with spirits of wine, lay it on with a sponge, rub it with a soft cloth which has previously been boiled in water mixed with prepared chalk, and polish with a wash-leather. If the silver is stained, boil it for a few minutes before applying the whiting. PLOVERS (ROAST).—These birds are cooked in the same manner as quails and woodcocks, and served upon toast. PLUMS (PRESERVED).—Gather the plums before they are quite ripe, cut them in halves, and remove the stones. Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow a pound of white sugar. Then crack the stones and cut the kernels in pieces. Boil the plums and kernels together slowly for a quarter of an hour in as little water as possible, then spread them on a dish to cool, and strain the liquor. The following day add the syrup and boil for fifteen minutes. Put into jars, and while warm pour the juice over them. Let them stand till cold, then put a paper immersed in brandy over the fruit, and tie down the jars in the usual manner. POELE, for Boiled Poultry, &c.—Cut into large dice one pound of beef suet, one pound of very fat bacon, and two pounds of veal, previously fried till it is white ; put them into a stew-pan with three pints of boiling water, one pound of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of salt, a bay leaf, an onion, three cloves, a few sprigs of thyme, and a large bundle of parsley and green onions. Boil the whole gently till the onion is done, then strain through a hair sieve. Poultry, &c., boiled in this poele becomes very white and tasty. In winter time it will keep good for at least a week.iS7 POISONS, Antidotes for.—In cases where the other articles men- tioned as antidotes are not in the house, give two tablespoonfuls of mustard mixed in a pint of water. Also give large draughts of warm milk or water mixed with oil, butter, or lard. If possible, while awaiting the arrival of a doctor, give as follows :— For Bed-Bug Poison, Blue Vitriol, Corrosive Sublimate, Lead Water, Red Precipitate, Saltpetre, Sugar of Lead, Sulphate of Zinc, Vermilion, Arsenic, Fowler’s Solution, White Precipitate, Antimonial Wine, Tartar Emetic, - Give milk or white of eggs in large quantities. Give prompt emetic of mustard and salt— tablespoonful of each ; follow with sweet oil, butter, or milk. (Drink warm water to encourage vomiting. If vomiting does not stop, give a grain of opium in water. Aqua Fortis, Bi-Carbonate Potassa, Muriatic Acid, Oil Vitriol, Oxalic Acid, Caustic Potash, Caustic Soda, Volatile Alkali, Carbolic Acid . . , Chloral Hydrate, Chloroform, Carbonate of Soda, Cobalt, Copperas, Laudanum, Morphine, Opium, Nitrate of Silver, . , Tincture Nux Vomica, Strychnine, Magnesia or soap, two minutes. dissolved in water, every Drink freely of water with vinegar or lemon juice in it. Give flour and water or glutinous drinks. Pour cold water over the head and face, with artificial respiration, galvanic battery. Prompt emetic ; soap or mucilaginous drinks. Strong coffee, followed by ground mustard or grease in warm water to produce vomiting. Keep in motion. Give common salt in water. Emetic of mustard or sulphate of zinc, aided by warm water. POLISH PUDDING.—Blanch half a dozen bitter almonds and one ounce of sweet ones ; pound them to a smooth paste, put them into a saucepan with half a pint of new milk, and bring slowly to a boil. Then mix two tablespoonfuls of Bermuda arrowroot with a quarter of a pint of cold milk ; pour the boiling milk upon this, and stir briskly till smoothly mixed ; add two ounces of fresh butter and two eggs, well beaten, and stir the mixture till cool. Pour it into an oiled mould, and set it upon ice till required, then turn it out of the mould and send it to table with sherry sauce. POLISH PUDDING, Sauce for.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, add two ounces of powdered sugar and two wineglass- fuls of sherry ; mix thoroughly, put it into a saucepan, and stir gently till it boils. POLYANTHUSES, To Raise.—These flowers require to be placed in a somewhat moist, half-shaded position, such as under tall trees or at the foot of a north-east or north-west wall. The double kinds are in-creased by dividing the stool, while single polyanthuses are raised from seed sown, as soon as ripe, on leaf mould and sand, pricking the plants out when large enough to be handled into the place where they are to flower. POMADE (CASTOR OIL).—Melt together four ounces of castor oil, two ounces of refined lard, and two drams of white wax. When cooling add two drams of bergamot and twenty drops of oil of lavender. POMADE for Strengthening the Hair.—Melt four ounces of lard and one ounce of white wax, add three ounces of olive oil, two drams of palm oil, and three-quarters of a dram each of oil of almonds and essence of bergamot. Stir the whole together, and pour it into pots to cool. POMADE to Accelerate the Growth of Hair.—Soak half a pound of beef marrow in several waters, strain, and add one ounce of tincture of cantharides and a dozen drops of oil of bergamot or other scent. POMATUM (ELDER-FLOWER).—Melt together over a slow fire two ounces of marrow, and the same amount of refined lard, then add four ounces of elder-flower oil and stir till it is nearly cold. POMATUM (MARROW).—Melt together one pound of lard and half a pound of suet. When nearly cold stir in three drams of otto of lemons and the same amount of otto of cloves. POMEGRANATE, General Treatment of the.—The pomegranate will live out of doors in England if planted against a wall where it gets shelter in winter and the sun in summer ; but it is best treated as a tub- plant, kept in a green-house till summer, and then put out in the open to flower. The plant is propagated by cuttings struck in heat, and requires to be kept copiously supplied with water during its period of growth. It flourishes best in a well-drained substantial rich loam, which should be re- newed every three or four years. As it flowers upon the new wood, care should be taken when pruning to leave on the lateral spurs. PORK, Chine of.—This joint may be sent to table either roasted or boiled, but the former is generally preferred. Lay it in salt for three or four days previous to cooking, then cut the skin lengthways into small strips, but not deep enough to reach the meat. Roast it with sage and onions finely shred. Serve with apple sauce. It generally accompanies turkey. PORK (COLLARED).—Take the bones out of a breast of pork ; season the meat highly with thyme, sage, and parsley; roll it up, tie in a cloth, and boil. Press it flat, and let stand till cold ; then remove the cloth, and keep it in its own liquor. PORK, Griskin of.—Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and when it has boiled take it up, butter and flour it, and put it before the fire to brown ; ten minutes will be sufficient. PORK (LEG OF), To Boil a.—Lay a fresh leg of pork in salt for a week or ten days, then soak it in cold water for half an hour ; wipe it dry, and boil in a floured cloth. For every pound weight allow fifteen minutes, and half an hour over, from the time it boils. Skim well, and serve with peas pudding. PORK (LEG OF), To Roast a.—For this dish the pork should be young and dairy-fed. Rub the skin with a little fresh butter ; separate the skin from the fat in the under and fillet end of the leg, and fill the space with finely chopped sage and onion, with pepper and salt ; hang to the fire, and when half done score the skin with a sharp knife, not cutting deeper than the outer rind. Serve with apple sauce. PORK (LOIN OF), To Roast a.—Score and joint the meat, put it into a saucepan, cover with water, and simmer till nearly cooked ; then take it up, remove the skin, coat with egg and bread crumbs, and hang it before the fire for a quarter of an hour or till it is done enough.PORK PIE.—Cut the meat from some loin chops, chop it up fine, season with pepper and salt, cover with puff paste, and bake. When sufficiently done, put in some cullis, with the essence of a couple of onions mixed with a little mustard. PORK SAUSAGES.—Chop together some fat and lean pork, without skin or gristle ; season with finely-powdered dried sage, pepper, and salt; mix well with a few bread crumbs, and press into skins. PORK (SPARE RIB OF), To Roast a.—Hang it before a good fire, dredge it with flour, and baste with butter. It will take from two hours and a half to three hours to cook. About twenty minutes before it is done, sprinkle it with pounded sage and a pinch of salt. PORK, To Choose.—The lean of young pork will break when pinched; the rind of old pork is thick and tough. The flesh of fresh pork is smooth, firm, and of a clear colour, and the fat set; when stale it looks clammy and flabby. If the fat is full of kernels the pork should not be eaten, for it is unwholesome. PORK, To Pickle.—Rub the pieces all over with saltpetre, let them drain for a day, then rub them with brine consisting of one pound of salt, half a pound of coarse sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre ; put them in a tub, cover with common salt, and lay a weight upon them to keep them down and to exclude the air. When required for cooking, scrape off the salt, and soak the meat for half an hour in clear water ; put into a saucepan of cold water, and boil till the rind is tender. PORRIDGE (OATMEAL).—Put four large spoonfuls of coarse oatmeal into a basin, and gradually wet it with milk till it has taken up a quart, stir it briskly into a quart of boiling water, add a little salt, and boil till it becomes thick. Keep stirring all the while it is boiling, or it will become lumpy. It may also be made entirely with water. In this case, drop the meal gradually into the boiling water with a little salt, stirring constantly until it is thick. When done, pour into plates, and spread treacle or sugar over the top, or eat it with milk alone. Time, half an hour. PORRIDGE (ONION).—This is made in precisely the same manner as green peas porridge ; using a dozen good-sized onions or leeks instead of the peas. PORRIDGE (PEAS).—Boil a pint and a half of green peas in two quarts of water till they are tender. Then have ready four large spoonfuls of oatmeal mixed by degrees with a quart of milk, and stir it with the peas until the whole thickens. Add a little lard or dripping, and pepper and salt to taste. It is also made with peas meal in the same way as oatmeal porridge. PORTER, To Brew.—Take an equal quantity of brown amber and pale malt, and turn them into the mash tub as follows:—Turn on the first liquor at 165 degrees ; mash one hour, and then coat the whole with dry malt. Set the tap in one hour. Mix ten pounds of brown hops to the quarter of malt, half old and half new ; boil the first wort briskly with the hops for a quarter of an hour, and after putting into the copper one pound and a half of Leghorn juice to the barrel, turn the whole into the coolers, rousing the wort all the time. Turn on the second liquor at 174 degrees, and in an hour set tap again. This second wort having run off, turn on again at 145 degrees ; mash for an hour, and stand for same; in the mean- time boiling the second wort with the same hops for an hour. Turn these into the coolers as before, and let down into the tub at 64 degrees, mixing the yeast as it comes down. Cleanse the second day at 80 degrees, previously throwing in a mixture of flour and salt, and rousing thoroughly. For private use, every quarter of malt ought to yield two and a half barrels, but brewers would run three barrels to the quarteri6o PORT NEGUS.—To each pint of port wine add a quart of boiling water, a quarter of a pound of grated sugar, a lemon, and a glass or two of good foreign liqueur. Mix the ingredients in a jug, and cover over till cool enough for use. As this beverage is largely used at children’s parties, the old and inexpensive wines are not needed, new and fruity ones answering the purpose better. Grated nutmeg is sometimes added, but it is questionable whether it improves the flavour. POSSET (BARLEY).—Boil a quarter of a pound of barley in a pint and a half of milk ; add half a pint of cream and a little mixed spice ; sweeten to taste ; let it stand till nearly cold, then pour in a glassful of sherry, and froth it up. POSSETT (BEER).—Scald half a pint of milk, and pour it upon some bread cut in the form of dice ; add half a pint of boiling hot beer ; sweeten with loaf sugar, and flavour with nutmeg. POT ASS A, Solution of.—Lime, recently burnt, eight ounces; boiling distilled water, one gallon. Sprinkle a little of the water on the lime in an earthen vessel, and when it is slaked and fallen to powder add fifteen ounces of carbonate of potash, dissolved in the remainder of the water. Bung down and shake frequently until the mixture is cold ; then allow the whole to settle, and decant the clear supernatant portion into perfectly clean and well-stoppered green-glass bottles. POTATO AND MEAT PUDDING.—Boil four pounds of potatoes, and when quite done, dry and roll them fine with a rolling-pin. As soon as they are cold, make them into a batter with a couple of eggs and a quart of milk, by first well beating up the eggs with the milk and then beating that up with the potatoes till the whole is a smooth batter. Season some chops, or steaks, or other pieces of meat, and lay half of them in a dish ; pour upon them half the batter, and put another layer of seasoned meat, and the rest of the batter on the top. Put it into the oven at once and bake gradually till the meat is cooked and the pudding a fine brown. The more the batter is beaten, the lighter the pudding will be. POTATO DISEASE.—M. Pousard, president of the Agri- cultural Society of Chalons, in a paper to that body, states that he has discovered a remedy for this disease. The secret consists in planting them after the commencement of June, instead of in April. By this means they escape the frost, and the leaf is not exposed to the hot sun of July. His opinion is that the alternate frost and heat corrupt the root by their opposing influence. Before communicating his opinion M. Pousard con- tinued his experiments for several years, and the invariable result was that his potatoes were of a fine size and perfectly sound. This plan has the further advantage that two crops may be grown upon the same ground within the year. POTATO PUDDING.—Take about two pounds of potatoes, boil them, and let them get cold, then beat up three eggs with a pint of milk and two ounces of moist sugar; mix all together, put it into a dish, sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top, and bake. POTATO SOUP.—Boil half a dozen mealy potatoes in three pints of white stock until they are tender ; pulp them through a sieve with an onion boiled soft enough for the purpose ; thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, season with cayenne, black pepper, and salt, and just before serving add four tablespoonfuls of cream. POTATOES A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL.—Rather more than parboil the potatoes, then take them up, let them get cold, and cut them into moderately thick slices. Put into a stew-pan a lump of fresh butter with a teaspoonful of flour and a teacupful of broth ; when these boil add the potatoes with some finely chopped parsley ; season with saltand pepper, and let them stew for five minutes, during which time beat up the yolk of an egg with a tablespoonful of cold water and a little lemon juice. When the sauce sets, dish up the vegetables, and serve at once. POTATOES (BROILED).—Boil the potatoes till they are rather more than half cooked, then remove the jackets, flour them, and lay them on a greased gridiron over a clear fire. Serve with f'esh butter. POTATOES (FRIED).—Peel the potatoes and throw them into a pan of cold water as they are done, so as to preserve their colour ; cut them into thin slices, and fry in a pan of hot fresh butter. They should be cooked slowly till of a clear brown colour. POTATOES, Irish Method of Cooking.—Wash the skins free from every particle of dirt, cut a thin slice off the end of each potato to prevent the skins breaking, put them into cold water and bring them gradually to near boiling point, then add more cold water, thus checking the heat from time to time until the vegetables are cooked, without having actually boiled ; pour the water off and let the skins dry before peeling. POTATOES (NEW), To Cook.—The sooner these are eaten after they are taken from the ground the better they taste. Scrape off the skins, put into scalding water, and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes ; strain, sprinkle with salt, put over them a few pieces of butter, and serve. If very young send to table accompanied with butter sauce. POTATOES (ROAST).—Wash and wipe them dry, cut a small piece from the skin of each, rub them all over with butter, and roast in an oven. The above method makes them nice and crisp. POTATOES, The Cultivation of.—In the cultivation of the potato, one of the most important features is a change of seed. They require rather deep, light sandy soil, well drained, and of a dry nature, and thrive best on ground that has been heavily manured for some green crop the previous season. Cut the root so that each piece of the potato has one or two eyes, and plant them in March or April in rows two feet asunder, twelve to fifteen inches distant in the row, and three or four inches deep. The main crop may remain in the ground till October or November. POTATOES, To Preserve.—To prevent potatoes germinating during the period of storage, place them in a wicker basket, and steep them for a few minutes in a copper of boiling water. Dry in a warm oven, pack in sacks or baskets, and protect them from frost and damp. POULTRY, To Fatten Quickly.—Shut them up in small coops, which must be kept very clean, and feed them upon barley meal mixed with water. No water should be given to them except that which is mixed with the meal. It is essential to keep the board upon which the food is placed well washed, otherwise the birds stand in danger of contracting the pip. POULTRY, Winter Food for.—A considerable saving in the cost of the food, with a more plentiful supply of eggs, may be effected by furnishing the birds with nettles. Gather the nettles in good time, dry them like hay, and store them in a dry place. When winter comes round, take a portion of them every day, boil your bran in some water, and when boiling throw in the nettles, chopped fine ; take the pot off the fire, cover it with the lid, and let the nettles steep for ten minutes ; stir together, and, when cold, give it to the poultry. POUND CAKE, Ingredients for a Rich.—A pound and a half of butter, two pounds and a quarter of flour, four pounds of currants, a pound and a half of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of mixed peel, half a pound of blanched almonds, fifteen eggs, and, if approved of, a glass of brandy. 22102 PRAWNS, To Boil.—These require to be done in a good quantity of water. To each three quarts of water used, add a quarter of a pound of salt. Let the water boil very fast, remove the scum, throw in the prawns and boil them for seven or eight minutes ; drain, and keep them in the cooL Send to table on a napkin with toast and fresh butter. PRESERVED FRUIT, To Bottle.—Take a few wide-mouthed bottles, and after burning a match in each to exhaust the air, place at the bottom a layer of sound dry fruit, and upon this a layer of sugar, and so on alternately until the bottles are full, then insert the corks, and tie a bladder over the top. Stand them in a stew-pan of cold water neck downwards, placing some straw between the bottles to prevent them breaking during ebullition. Directly the skin begins to crack remove them from the water ; place a piece of white paper dipped in sweet oil over the top of the fruit, then immerse another piece of paper in gum-water and press over and around the top of the bottles ; this will become hard and tight as it gets dry. PRESERVES, Covering for.—Cut some white paper the exact size of the inside of the jars intended for use, and when the preserve is thoroughly cold dip the paper in brandy and place it on the fruit. Or the papers, instead of being dipped in brandy, may be glazed with the whites of eggs. The jars should then be tied down with a double paper of the same description over the top. PRESERVES, To Make a Syrup for.—Dissolve two pounds of sugar in half a pint of water, boil for a few minutes, skimming it till quite clear. Add the white of one large egg, well beaten; boil very quickly, removing the scum as it forms. PRINTS, To Obtain Impressions of.—Soak the print first in a solution of potash and afterwards in a solution of tartaric acid. Diffused crystals of bi-tartrate of potash are thus produced through the texture of the printed part of the paper, a salt which repels oil. The ink-roller may then be passed over the print without affecting any portion of the surface, except the parts to which ink was originally applied. Next lay a sheet of paper over the print and cover this with a piece of felt or thick fine flannel, and very carefully lay a heavy flat weight upon it, or put it into a letter- press for a moment, when a reversed copy of the picture will be obtained. Should it be desired to make a perfect reproduction of the original, the copy must be treated in precisely the same manner as that from which it was tnken PRUNING TREES, Method of.—The operation of pruning trees is chiefly performed during February and March, or as soon as the frost breaks up. The amputation is made as near as possible to a bud, but without touching it. The cut should begin on the opposite side to, and on a level with, the lower part of the bud, and terminate just above it. In sawing away a branch, let the cut be smooth and bevelled, and leave a small portion on the stem. In all cases let the wounded surface be as small as possible. Smooth it with a knife or chisel, and cover with grafting paste. PRUSSIAN BLUE, To Manufacture.—Calcine a quantity of vegetable alkali with twice its weight of dried bullock’s blood until the blood is reduced to a perfect coal. Boil this coal in water, decant the lixivium, and pour it into a solution of one part of green sulphate of iron (copperas) to six parts of alum, the lixivium and the solution both being hot. The mixture will then acquire a very pale blue colour and deposit a pale precipitate. By adding more and more of a fresh solution of copperas the colour will become deeper. It must then be filtered, and the precipitate washed the next day till the water which comes from it is insipid ; the colour is then finally gently dried.163 . PULSE, To Ascertain the State of Health by Means of the.—The pulsations of the heart of a healthy babe varies from 130 to 140 per minute; at one year of age, from 120 to 130 ; at two years from zoo to 110; at three, 90 to 100 ; at seven, 85 to 90 ; at fourteen, 80 to 83. The pulse of an adult should range between 75 and 80, and that of an aged person about 60 per minute. PUMPKIN, OR GOURD, To Grow.—Sow the seed in a hot- bed in April for transplanting in May to the natural ground on stable manure. They may occupy any open sunny space and either run upon the ground or be trained against a railing. PURGATIVES, Active.—Dissolve an ounce of Epsom salts in three times that quantity of compound infusion of senna. The above quantity will make two good doses. Another :—Mix ten grains of calomel with one dram of powdered jalap and twenty grains of sugar. This quantity will make two doses for an adult. PURPLE (TRANSPARENT), For Painting.—Boil four ounces of Brazil wood and half an ounce of logwood in a pint of stale beer till the desired colour is obtained, which may be ascertained by dipping a piece of white paper into the liquor. If too red, add a little more logwood, by means of which any desired shade may be obtained. The colour may then be fixed by the addition of a little alum. PUTTY AND PAINT, Solvent for Old—Make a paste with soft soap and a solution of caustic soda ; or with slaked lime and pearlash. Lay it on with a brush or rag and leave it for some hours, when the old putty or paint may be removed with ease. The application of diluted sulphuric acid, or nitric or muriatic acid, will also soften putty. PUTTY (GLAZIERS’), To Make—Mix whiting and linseed oil, and work them together to the consistence of a thick paste. PYROPHORUS ; or, Air Tinder. — Mix three parts of alum with one of wheat flour, and calcine them in a common phial till the blue flame disappears. When cold the phial must be well stopped with a good cork. On exposure to the atmosphere the sulphuret attracts moisture from the air and generates sufficient heat to kindle the carbonaceous matter mingled with it. QUADRUPEDS, To Stuff.—See Birds, Quadrupeds, &c., To Stuff. QUAILS AND GREEN PEAS.—Empty, singe, and truss the quails ; put them into a stew-pan, wrapped in layers of bacon, with two spoonfuls of broth, a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, and cloves. Stew them for twenty minutes over a very slow fire. Have ready some bacon boiled with peas, to which add the quails, boil together for a few moments, then dish up the quails and bacon, thicken the peas liquor, and pour it over the meat. QUAILS, Fricassee of.—Cut up the birds, and toss them in a saucepan with a few mushrooms and a little melted butter, a slice of ham cut up small, a bunch of herbs, cloves, pepper, and salt ; add some good gravy, and simmer the whole slowly. When nearly ready, thicken the regout with eggs beaten up with a little gravy. QUAILS (ROAST).—These birds are not drawn before they are hung to the fire. About ten minutes suffices to cook them. When done, serve on toast, with fresh butter. QUASSIA, Infusion of.—Pour a pint and a half of boiling water on to one dram of quassia chips or raspings and the peel of an orange. Let stand till cold, then strain. Do e : Fiom one and a haif to two ounces three164 times a day. This is a most powerful bitter tonic, and is useful in cases of indigestion and kindred complaints. QUEEN CAKES.—Flour, one pound; powdered sugar, one pound ; butter, four ounces ; currants, one pound ; seven eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Whisk the eggs well, then add the sugar; beat them together for some time ; add the butter, previously beaten to a cream, and stir in gradually the dry ingredients. Butter some patty-tins, half fill them with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. QUENELLES.—Quenelles may be made of rabbits, partridges, whiting, &c., in the same manner as herein given for Quenelles of Veal. QUENELLES OF FOWL.—The fillets of chickens only should be used for this dish, an old fowl being too tough and thready. It is better to use veal, when nice and white, than a tough fowl. Cut the meat up small, and pound it well in a mortar till it can be rubbed through a sieve, remembering that the more quenelles are pounded the more delicate they are. They may be made hard or soft, according to the use they are intended for, by simply adding more or less eggs. This addition makes them softer when raw, but harder when poached. QUENELLES OF VEAL.—Take half a pound of the fleshy part of veal, cut it in slices, and scrape it with a knife till all the meat is separated from the sinews. Boil a calfs udder, either in stock or plain water. When it is done and cold, trim all the upper part, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till it can be rubbed through a sieve ; then make three balls, one of the scraped meat, one of the udder, and one of panada (See Panada for Farces), binding each together with a little flour, and poach them in boiling water with a little salt. QUILLS, To Harden.—Steep the barrels of the quills for a minute or so in boiling alum and water, and then lay them by till cold. Another method is to thrust the barrels into hot ashes or sand, stir them till soft, then press them almost flat with the back of a knife, and finally make them round with the fingers. QUINSY, To Relieve.—Bake a large potato, cut it in two, and apply to the bare neck as hot as it can possibly be borne, tie over it a band of doubled flannel, and keep it on till nearly cold. Repeat the application, and leave the flannel bandage off gradually. A gargle of sage and vinegar may likewise be used. RABBIT (BOILED).—Remove the liver and lay the rabbit in tepid water for ten minutes ; then boil it slowly for twenty minutes or half an hour either in white stock or in salt and water. Serve with onion sauce poured over it, and accompanied with the liver chopped very fine and put into onion sauce made with butter instead of with water. RABBIT, Fricassee of.—Cut up the flesh of the rabbit into pieces about the size of a large walnut, fry them in butter to a light brown, then put them into a stew-pan with a pint of water or veal gravy, an anchovy, cayenne pepper, and salt. Stew gently. If the fricassee is to be brown, stir in, while stewing, a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the same amount of burnt sugar ; if it is to be served white, add instead the whites of two eggs mixed with a gill of cream. RABBIT PIE.—Clean and quarter two young rabbits; cut up a quarter of a pound of bacon and pound it in a mortar with the livers of the rabbits, a little chopped parsley, mace, a couple of leaves of sweet basil, pepper, and salt. Line a dish with crust, put a layer of seasoning at the bottom, and then put in the rabbit ; now pound some more bacon in the mortar, mix it with fresh butter, lay it upon the rabbits, and put thin slices of bacon on the top ; cover with a crust, and bake for two hours. Whendone, carefully remove the top crust, take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and add a little rich gravy. RABBIT (ROAST).—Let the rabbit hang in its skin for four or five days, if the weather permits ; skin it, and make a strong seasoning of cayenne, black pepper, allspice, nutmeg, and a wineglassful of vinegar ; let the rabbit remain in this pickle for a day, turning and rubbing it fre- quently. Stuff it with the liver, scalded and minced, sweet herbs, parsley, bread crumbs, and suet, seasoned to taste; truss, and hang it before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes. Serve with a good gravy and currant jelly. The rabbit may also be roasted without being stuffed, and served with the liver finely minced and mixed with melted butter. RABBIT SOUP.—Simmer for one hour in two quarts of hot water, one pound of pickled pork, two onions and a turnip ; then add the rabbit and a pint of cold water, and let the whole simmer for another hour ; after which remove the rabbit, pork, and vegetables, and having cut off the legs, shoulders, and as much of the meat as possible from the back, put it all aside to make a stew or fricassee next day. Fry two sliced onions till they are moderately brown, and put them with the head and bones of the rabbit into the broth ; simmer for two hours, occasionally skimming the surface of the soup. Thicken with cornflour mixed to a paste with a little cold water, and if not salt enough already add sufficient to season it to taste. Strain through a hair sieve, return it to the stew-pan for a few minutes, and serve hot. RABBITS, To Choose.—When the rabbit is young its claws are smooth and fur soft ; when old its claws are rough and grey hairs are inter- mixed with the others. Its freshness may be known by the whiteness and dryness of the flesh, which becomes flexible and of a bluish tint when stale. RABBITS, To Feed and House.—A varied diet is best suited to the taste and habits of these quadrupeds. Give the stalks and leaves of chicory, carrots, dandelion, plantain, groundsel, sow-thistle, parsley, en- dive, lettuce, celery tops, and cabbage, with bran and oats. Vegetables in a wet state should not be put near them, and green food should not be too abundantly supplied. The hutch should be kept perfectly clean, and be made of the largest dimensions possible, as the more room they have to frolic about, the more likely they are to thrive and be happy and healthy. RADISHES, To Grow.—These are raised by several different sowings, at three or four weeks interval, from February to June. A late sowing in August will give a winter crop ; the black Spanish being most suitable for this purpose. RAIN AND SUN PROOF* To Render Articles.—Blinds, umbrellas, light coats, covers to hats, &c., may be rendered both sun proof and water proof in the following manner :—Boil well together two pounds of turpentine, one pound of litharge in powder, and} two or three pounds of linseed oil. Brush the composition evenly over the articles, and let it dry in the sun. RAISINS, To Prepare.—Tie two or three bunches of ripe grapes together while yet on the vine, and dip them into a hot lixivium of wood- ashes to which has been added a little of the oil of olives ; let them remain on the vine after this for three or four days, separated by sticks placed in a horizontal position, then remove them from the tree and dry in the sun. RANUNCULUS.—These plants are all hardy and easy of cultiva- tion. They require a light loamy soil, enriched with leaf mould and materials from a spent hot-bed. They may be multiplied by tubers or by seed. Many persons plant the tubers during January or February, but most gardeners are of opinion that October is the best time, as the small tubers are likely to be weakened by remaining too long above ground. Tha166 plants may be set six inches apart every way, at a depth of from one and a half to two inches, a small pinch of river sand being put below each root. Directly the foliage is withered take up the roots, separate the off-sets at once, and store them in an airy, shady place. When grown from seed it is sown on light, rich, well-sifted soil, and a light coat of earth dusted over it from a sieve. It is generally asserted that the seed of the ranunculus does not produce two flowers alike, and hence its cultivation from seed is largely practised by amateurs as well as professionals. RASPBERRY BRANDY.—Express the juice from the rasp- berries, and to each pint add a pound of sugar ; give one boil up, skim it, and when cold mix it with an equal quantity of brandy. RASPBERRY TRIFLE.—Lay in a deep glass dish some sponge cake ; pour upon it some cream or juice of preserved fruit, then add a layer ' of raspberry jam a quarter of an inch thick. Pour upon this a pint of boiled custard ; beat up the whites of three eggs and pile it upon the top of the custard. RASPBERRIES, To Preserve Whole.—Gather the fruit before it is too ripe, and boil it very gently in a small quantity of water with its weight in sugar. When clear, take the fruit up carefully and boil the syrup till it thickens, pour it over the fruit and when cold put into jars and cover closely. RATAFIA.—Bruise one pound of bitter almonds, and three quarters of an ounce of nutmegs, and put them into a mortar with three- quarters of a pound of white sugar and one grain of ambergris ; pound the whole together, and infuse them for three days in a gallon of proof spirits, then filter for use. RATS, Phosphor Paste for.—Put one pound of hog’s lard into a pot, plunge it in water, and heat it to 150 degrees Fahrenheit; add half an ounce of phosphorus and a pint of proof spirit ; pour the mixture into bottles, cork firmly, and shake well together. When cold, pour off the spirit (which may be saved for further use), and when required for use, warm it very gently and mix it with wheat, or it may be spread upon bread and laid near their runs. It may be made still more attractive by flavouring it with oil of rhodium. RATS, Poison for.—Take equal parts of ox-gall and oil of amber, and add thereto sufficient flour to form a paste ; divide it into small balls, and place them near the runs of the vermin. Put plenty of water near the poison. After partaking of their meal, the rats, becoming intensely thirsty, will drink till they die on the spot. RAZORS, Paste for Sharpening.—Coke, ground to impalpable powder constitutes the true “diamond paste" for sharpening razors. RAZOR STROP.—Take a piece of buff leather about two inches wide and twelve inches long, fasten it on to a strip of wood, and rub on to it a good thick layer of mutton tallow previously mixed with a quarter of an ounce of emery powder. RENNET (LIQUID).—Cut into small pieces a pound of fresh rennet and well mix it with a quarter of a pound of salt. Let it stand five or six weeks in a cool place, then add a pint and a half of water and half a quartern of spirits of wine. Digest for a day, filter, and bottle off. Two or three teaspoonfuls will be sufficient to curdle a quart of milk. RHEUMATICS, Cures for.—Take a gill of the best vinegar, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of table salt. Mix, and rub into the affected parts until a good glow is produced. Or, mix together half a dram of colchicum wine, ten grains of iodide of potassium, two drams of sulphate of magnesia, and six ounces of water. One-sixth part to be taken every four hours.RHEUMATISM, Liniment for.—A liniment made of equal parts of oil of winter-green and olive oil, or soap liniment, is said to afford almost instant relief from this painful affliction. See also LUMBAGO. RHEUMATISM, Plaster for.—Take one part of ammonia or “volatile salt” and three parts of extract of belladonna ; mix, spread it on leather, and apply to the affected joints. RHODODENDRONS, General Treatment of.—These plants require to be grown in heath mould, with a good drainage at the bottom. As they are soon killed by drought, they should be kept in a humid atmo- sphere. They are multiplied by grafting and layering, but the best plants, are raised from seed sown in a pan of fine heath mould and gently pressed down by the hand. This pan is stood in another which is filled with water, and kept covered with glass until the seedlings have sprouted. They are pricked out in their second year, and in their fourth year they are moved further apart, in which position they remain till strong enough to be trans- planted to the place where they are to remain. In transplanting, take a good ball of earth with the root, and give a plenteous watering. They flourish best under the shade of a lofty tree. RHUBARB SYRUP.—Cut into pieces, without being peeled, seven pounds and a half of rhubarb, and add to it two pounds of sugar. Put it with two quarts of water, and boil for forty minutes ; then strain through a fine sieve, and bottle the syrup. When using add an equal quantity of water. June is the best time to select for making the syrup. RHUBARB TART.—Peel and cut the rhubarb into pieces two inches long, put them into a saucepan, pour over them a thin syrup of sugar and water, and simmer very slowly for one hour. When cold, stir in a small teaspoonfu] of carbonate of soda ; line a dish with crust, pour in the fruit, cover with a light paste, and bake. RHUBARB, Tincture of.—Rhubarb, two and a half ounces ; lesser cardamom seeds, half an ounce ; brandy, one quart. Digest for seven days, then strain. Dose : From one to three or four spoonfuls. Used for indigestion and weakness of the stomach. RHUBARB, To Grow.—Sow the seed in April on a warm, sheltered border of rich soil. When the plants are sufficiently strong, plant out in deep, well-trenched, rich ground. RIBBONS, To Clean. — Mix thoroughly one tablespoonful of brandy, one of treacle, and one of soft soap. Place the ribbon upon a smooth board, apply the mixture with a soft brush, rinse in cold water, and roll up until nearly dry ; then press the wrong side with a moderately warm iron. RICE GRUEL.—Mix a tablespoonful of ground rice with a pint of milk until it is perfectly smooth. Boil over a slow fire, with a little cinnamon and nutmeg. When done sweeten to taste and add a piece of butter. RICE PUDDING (BAKED).—Put into a baking dish half a pound of rice, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg or pounded allspice, lemon peel, and two quarts of milk. Bake in a moderate oven. RICE PUDDING (BOILED).—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice till it is tender, then take it up and stir into it two ounces of butter and the same amount of finely-chopped suet, sweeten with sugar, flavour with nutmeg, tie it in a cloth, and boil for one hour. Serve covered with melted butter. RICE OR HOMINY CAKES.—One quart of milk, three- quarters of a pound ol soft-boiled rice or hominy, three eggs, beaten light,168 one large spoonful of lard or olive oil, one tablespoonful of white sugar, a little salt, and three-quarters of a pound of flour. Work the lard into the rice, then the sugar and salt, add the eggs, and lastly the milk and flour. Beat up the whole until it is perfectly smooth and free from lumps, and bake in muffin rings. These cakes are very wholesome and delicious. RICKETS, To Cure.—Give a nourishing diet to the child, with the following powder night and morning :—Carbonate of iron, six grains ; powdered rhubarb, four grains. A little lime-water should be mixed with all the drink. A dry atmosphere is best for the sufferers. RINGWORM, Lotions for.—Sulphate of zinc, two scruples; sugar of lead, fifteen grains; water, six ounces. Wash the parts two or three times a day. Or. paint the rings with black writing ink. Tincture of iodine, applied with a feather, is considered to be a speedy cure. Another good remedy is two drams of muriated tincture of steel (steel drops) mixed with four tablespoonfuls of soft water. Bathe with it night and morning, and let a little of the lotion dry on. RISSOLES.—Melt some dripping in a frying-pan; beat up an egg, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of cooked meat chopped small, the same quantity of bread crumbs, and a like amount of suet, a cupful of parsley, a few mixed herbs, pepper, and salt. Beat up another egg and pour it on to a plate. Divide the mixture into small pieces, roll them on a floured board into balls; dip them in the plate of egg and roll them in bread crumbs ; put them into the pan of fat, and fry to a nice brown ; drain, and serve garnished with fried parsley. ROAN LEATHER, To Restore.—Beai an egg to a strong froth, let it subside, then add to it a small quantity of vinegar. Rub the ‘ ‘ glair ” on with a sponge or flannel. ROCK CAKES.—Rub two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour. Mix together a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of sugar, one ounce of mixed peel, a little nutmeg, and salt. Beat up an egg with two spoonfuls of milk, add to the dry ingredients, and mix to a stiff paste. Take up the mixture with two forks, place on a greased baking-tin in little rough heaps, and bake for fifteen minutes. ROLLERS (PRINTERS’).—Soak overnight ten and a half pounds of genuine Irish glue, and in the morning drain it for one hour by means of a covered colander. Then boil two and a half gallons of black treacle for twenty minutes, and skim it well during the whole time. Next add one pound of purified indiarubber dissolved in alcohol, and stir until it combines with the treacle. Add the glue, and boil for forty minutes, stirring occasionally ; then put in two ounces of Venice turpentine, twelve ounces of glycerine, and four ounces of strong vinegar; boil for six or seven minutes, and pour the mass into moulds. ROSE BUSHES, To Clear Blight from.—Mix together equal quantities of tobacco dust, or snuff, and sulphur, and strew it over the bushes in the early morning, while the dew is upon them, and an hour or so afterwards syringe with water, or, better still, with a decoction of elder leaves. Repeat the operation three or four mornings in succession. ROSE LEAVES, To Preserve.—Gather them when dry, and pack them in a jar with common salt; or they may be pressed down tightly and sprinkled with brandy. ROSE OIL, for Improving the Hair.—Put into a pipkin a quantity of dried rose leaves, cover them with hot olive oil, and keep hot for some hours. The oil will extract both the colour and the odour.169 ROSES (CREAM OF), To Prepare.—Crush and sift magnesia, and add sufficient rose water to form a thin cream. Bathe the face in warm water, moisten with glycerine, then apply the cream, and when dry rub the face lightly with a soft flannel. ROSES FROM CUTTINGS, To Raise.—Take, in July, shoots of ripe wood made during the spring, and having a portion of last year’s wood attached. Cut them into lengths of five or six inches, selecting such as have two lateral shoots, with about six leaves to each, and plant them in pots filled with a mixture of leaf mould, silver sand, and loamy soil, in- serting an inch of the old wood in the soil and leaving at least two leaves above. Give a gentle watering to settle the soil round the shoots. Let them stand to drain, and when the leaves are dry, remove the cuttings to a cold frame, where they will be sheltered from the sun. In about a fortnight’s time stand the pots in a hot-bed, and when the cuttings are well rooted, pot each one separately. ROSES FROM SEED, To Grow.—Sow the seeds thickly in well-drained pans of leaf mould and yellow loam, cover with half an inch of the earth, and sprinkle a little lime on the top ; water freely, and keep them in the shade. Some gardeners consider it advantageous to soak the seeds for three or four hours before sowing them. As the seeds germinate, keep them free from all weeds, and never let the soil get too dry. ROSES (MILK OF), To Prepare.—Put into a bottle four ounces of rose water, two teaspoonfuls of oil of sweet almonds, and twenty drops of oil of tartar. Shake the bottle until the whole is combined. Apply with a cambric handkerchief to the face, neck, and hands after the morn- ing’s ablutions. ROSE WATER, To Make.—Take six pounds of the leaves of fresh damask roses and as much water as will prevent burning. Distil off a gallon. ROSEWOOD, Stain to Imitate.—Take half a pound of logwood and the same weight of red sanders, and boil them in a gallon of water for an hour ; strain the liquor through a cloth, and add one ounce of powdered alum, stirring until it is dissolved. Apply the stain while hot with a sponge to the wood, which will impart the reddish tinge of rosewood. Let it dry ; then boil one pound of logwood in a gallon of water, and lay it on in streaks in the same manner as the previous dye. If it be desired to impart very dark streaks add a quarter of an ounce of copperas to the logwood decoction. ROUGE, for Theatrical Purposes.—Take Briangon chalk, reduce it to a very fine powder, add to it a sufficient quantity of carmine to produce the required vividness of colour, and carefully triturate the mixture, which may be applied to the skin without any danger. ROUX (BROWN), for Thickening Sauces.—Melt some butter, squeeze out the butter-milk, and mix enough flour with it to form a thin paste ; fry it in a stew-pan on a very slow fire, and then put it again over very red ashes, till a nice colour is obtained. When of a light brown put it into an earthen pan for future use. It keeps a long time. Care must be taken not to let the flour burn, otherwise the sauce will become spotted with black, and have a bitter taste. The colour must be obtained only by very slow degrees. ROUX (WHITE), for Thickening Sauces.—Melt a good lump of butter in a stew-pan, drain, and squeeze out the butter-milk, then powder it over with flour, enough to make a thin paste ; keep it on the fire for a quarter of an hour, taking care not to let it colour, and pour it into an earthen pan ready for use. 23170 RUM PUNCH.—Rub a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar over a large lemon until it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skin ; then put the sugar into a punchbowl ; add the juice of the lemon (free from pips), and mix the two well together. Pour thereon a pint of boiling water ; stir, and add half a pint of rum, half a pint of brandy, and half a teaspoonful of nutmeg. Mix, and the punch will be ready to serve. To ensure success it is necessary to thoroughly incorporate the ingredients, and to diligently attend to the process of mixing. RUST, To Keep Iron and Steel Goods Free from.—Dissolve half an ounce of camphor in a pound of hog’s lard, take off the scum, and mix as much black lead as will impart an iron colour. Rub the mixture over the goods, let it remain on for twenty-four hours, then wipe it off with a clean rag. The articles will keep in good condition for some months. In ex- porting machinery it should be kept thickly coated with the mixture during the voyage. Polished steel may also be kept from rust by the use of pure paraffin wax, which should be warmed, rubbed on, and then wiped off with a woollen rag. White lead, tallow, and linseed oil, mixed to a thick paint, is likewise used for the same purpose. RUST, To Preserve Bright Grates from.—Make a strong paste of fresh lime and water, and with a fine brush smear it as thickly as possible over all the polished surface. By this simple means all the grates and fire-irons of an unoccupied house may be kept for months free from harm. RUST, To Remove.—Add one part of muriatic acid to four parts of water and plunge the rusty article into the bath so formed. Leave it to soak for twenty-four hours, then rub it well with a scrubbing brush. Wash it several times in plain water, dry it before a fire, and polish with oil and emery powder or emery cloth. Or, cover the iron or steel well with sweet oil, and let it remain for a couple of days ; then use unslacked lime, finely powdered, and rub it until all the rust disappears. SAGE, To Cultivate.—Sage may be raised from slips of the young shoots in April or May; but most successfully in May or June, by the young side shoots of the year, slipped or cut off about five or six inches long, divesting them of their under leaves, planting them down to the top leaves, ten or twelve inches apart, and giving them at once a good supply of water. SAGO GRUEL.—Scald a quarter of a pound of sago in hot water, strain through a hair sieve, and set over the fire with two quarts of water. Boil and skim till thick and clear, then add a pint of red wine and sugar to taste. Serve with sliced lemon and toast or dry biscuits. SAGO PUDDING.—Wash an ounce of sago, soak it for an hour in half a pint of cold water ; strain ; put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk, and let it simmer till clear, stirring frequently. Let it cool a little. Beat together an egg and an ounce of moist sugar ; stir them into the saucepan ; pour into a greased pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. SALAD CREAM.—Whisk the yolks of three fresh eggs with ten grains of cayenne pepper. Mix well together a dram and a half of salt, one ounce of mustard, half a pint of vinegar, and two ounces of salad oil; add the eggs, shake well, and bottle the mixture. SALAD DRESSING.—Take the yolks of two raw eggs, beat them up well, and add gradually salad oil, stirring all the time. When the mixture becomes very thick add vinegar, Yorkshire relish, and salt and peeper to taste.17I SALLY LUNN CAKES.—To one pint of hot milk add a quarter of a pint of thick small-beer yeast; put the mixture into a pan with sufficient flour to make it as thick as batter ; cover it over and let it stand for a couple of hours ; add two ounces of loaf sugar dissolved in a quarter of a pint of warm milk, and a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into the flour ; mix the dough, not quite so stiff as for bread ; let it stand half an hour, make into cakes, and bake in a quick oven. SALMON (BOILED).—Scale, empty, and wash the fish, remov- ing all the blood from the inside, and truss it in the shape of the letter S. Then fill the fish-kettle with water, and directly it boils add for each gallon of water four ounces of salt; boil the salt rapidly for two minutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; put in the salmon and let it boil gently till it is thoroughly done ; drain it on the fish-plate, put it on a hot folded fish napkin, garnish with slices of lemon and cucumber, and serve with shrimp or lobster sauce. SALMON (POTTED).—Scale and wipe a large piece, but do not wash it ; drain the salt from it. Season with mace, cloves, and white pepper ; put the fish into a pan with a few bay leaves, cover with butter, and bake. When thoroughly done, let it drain, pot it, and when cold cover with clarified butter. This will be found an excellent dish for break- fast or any other meal. SALMON, To Carve.—Salmon is seldom sent to the table whole, but where this is done it should be remembered that the choice part lies near the head. When a piece from the middle is placed upon the table, insert the knife above the bone, and make an incision along the whole piece, then make a similar cut along the thin end, and serve to each person a slice, about six inches in length and half an inch thick, from the solid, or lean portion, and a slice of less proportions from the soft, or fat parts. SALMON, To Choose.—Salmon from the Thames is most esteemed, that from the Severn being next in delicacy. The fineness of its flavour depends upon its being fresh. The gills and flesh should be of a fine red, the head small, and the neck thick and very firm. SALSIFY.—This is grown for its long carrot-shaped white root, which is boiled ; also for the young shoots of year-old plants, to dress like asparagus. It is raised from seed in March, April, and May for first and successional crops, sown either in drills or broadcast, and the plants thinned out six inches asunder. The roots will be ready for drawing from July, and will remain good till the following spring. SALTS OF LEMON, To Make.—Mix together equal parts of finely powdered citric acid and cream of tartar. SALTS (PRESTON).—Pound up two ounces of sal ammoniac, and mix them with two ounces of salts of tartar, a few drops of lavender, a little musk, and a few drops of spirits of hartshorn. Keep in a stoppered bottle. The above forms strong and inexpensive smelling salts. SALVE, A Good Family.—Rosin, one pound ; mutton tallow, a quarter of a pound; beeswax, an ounce and a half; refined lard, a quarter of a pound. Melt together ; pour it into cold water and let it stand for two hours, then make it into sticks. SALVE, for General Purposes.—Dissolve in two ounces of rose* water two drams of borax, and add one ounce of glycerine, and two drams of tincture of opium. Now melt two drams of spermaceti in two drams of sweet oil, and add two ounces of refined lard. Add this latter mixture gradually to the first, stirring all the time and until nearly cold, then put with it a few drops of eau de Cologne or essence of rosemary. SAP-BLUE, To Prepare.—Reduce a quarter of an ounce of Indigo to powder, and grind it very fine in a glass mortar with two ounces1J2 of oil of vitrioL Then dissolve a quarter of a pound of alum in warm water, and add thereto two ounces of the solution of tartar in water ; wash and filter the precipitate, and when nearly dry add to it the solution of indigo. Dilute with water. Used to colour bone, leather and silk. A fine sap colour may be obtained by adding some gum to the above. SARSAPARILLA.—Sarsaparilla root, sliced and bruised, tw'O ounces ; guaiacum wood, one ounce. Boil over a slow fire in three quarts of water until the liquor is reduced to one quart, adding towards the end half an ounce of sassafrax wood and three drams of Spanish liquorice. Strain the decoction. A wineglassful to be taken three times a day. SAUCE (ANCHOVY).—Melt two ounces of butter with two tablespoonfuls of milk, stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour, and when quite smooth add two tablespoonfuls of water, two dessert-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and the juice of half a lemon. Serve very hot. SAUCE (APPLE), for Roast Pork.—Peel some apples, cut them into quarters, and put them into a saucepan with a little brown sugar, and two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Cover the saucepan close, and set it over a slow fire for a couple of hours, or less, according to the kind of apple used. When they are done enough pour off the water, and let them stand a few minutes to get dry, then beat them up with a little grated lemon peel and a bit of butter. SAUCE AU CARP, for Fresh-water Fish.—Put into a sauce pan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a large teaspoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of white vinegar, a small bit of glaze, a little nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and a small quantity of water. Stir it over the fire till it is per- fectly smooth, then add a spoonful of capers, but none of the vinegar. SAUCE (BECHAMEL). —Put into a stew-pan a slice or two of ham, a couple of shallots, a few mushrooms, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a bit of butter. Let stand a few hours, then add a little water, flour, and milk, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. This sauce should always be made rather thick. SAUCE (BREAD), for Fowls or Game.—Grate some stale bread into a basin, add an onion, a few peppercorns, three or four cloves, a little salt, and sufficient boiling milk to cover the whole. Simmer in a slow oven till all the milk is soaked up by the bread, then remove the onion, add a little cream, rub through a sieve, add a little melted butter, and serve very hot. SAUCE (BROWN ITALIAN).—Take two tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, one spoonful of shallots, and one of parsley. Put them into a stew-pan with a cupful of good stock and a glass of sherry. Boil up ; add clove, lemon, nutmeg and sugar. Boil again with a little more stock, skim carefully so as not to take off the parsley, and season with pepper and salt. This sauce should not be made too thick. SAUCE (CAPER), for Boiled Mutton.—Stir two tablespoonfuls of minced capers into a third of a pint of melted butter ; add a little of the vinegar, and serve at once. Pickled nasturtiums are a good substitute for capers. SAUCE (CARRIER).—Cut into shreds half a dozen shallots, and boil them with half a pint of beef gravy, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Season with pepper and salt. SAUCE (CELERY).—Cut off the stalks of a dozen heads of celery. Pare the heads, wash and blanch them in hot water, then stew them with some beef suet and bacon fat, a little butter and salt, and some lemon juice. When done, drain them well, cut them into pieces an inch long, and put them into some bechamel. The sauce should be made thick, but not too highly seasoned.i73 SAUCE (CREAM), for Fish.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, a little flour, some cream, and a pinch of salt ; stir it over the fire until it nearly boils. SAUCE (CURRANT), for Roast Sucking Pig.—Take a pint of water, put in two ounces of currants, a good piece of bread crumb, a blade of mace, and a little whole pepper ; the spice should be tied up in a piece of muslin ; boil together for about six minutes, and then pour off the water, take out the spice, and beat up the bread with a good piece of butter and a little cream ; add a glass of wine, and sweeten with loaf sugar. Stir all together and serve hot. SAUCE D’ATTELETS.—Take a spoonful of fine herbs, such as parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, and fry them lightly in a little butter, add a little flour, and moisten with broth or bechamel. Reduce over a good fire, without skimming off the fat; season with pepper, salt, and a little mixed spice, and thicken with the yolks of two or three well-beaten eggs. This sauce is used for attelets of palates of beef, sweetbreads, fillets of rabbits, oysters, &c., and is poured over whatever it is intended for. SAUCE (DUTCH).—Put into a saucepan a sliced onion, some scraped horseradish, a couple of anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of elder vinegar, and some thin stock ; boil for ten minutes, strain through a sieve, add a couple of well-beaten eggs, and place over the fire till it boils. SAUCE (EGG).—Take some hard-boiled eggs, chop them up small, and mix them with some melted butter. A little lemon juice squeezed in just before it is served is an improvement. Send to table very hot. SAUCE (FENNEL).—Slice up three or four onions, and put them into a saucepan with a cupful of good gravy and two cloves of garlic ; simmer for one hour, let it get cold, then remove the fat and pass the sauce through a sieve. Add chopped parsley, fennel, pepper, and salt, and boil all together for a minute or two. SAUCE FOR SWEET BOILED PUDDINGS.—Take half a pint of new milk, a thin strip of fresh lemon rind, a little cinnamon, half an inch of vanilla bean, and two ounces of sugar. Boil gently together until the milk is flavoured ; then strain, and pour it slowly to the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, smoothly mixed with half a teaspoonful of flour, a few grains of salt, and a tablespoonful of milk ; stir very quickly as the milk is added. Put the whole into the saucepan, and stir quickly until it thickens and presents the appearance of cream. It must not be placed upon the fire, only held over it while this is done. SAUCE (GARLIC).—This is most readily made by adding garlic vinegar to plain melted butter. Or it may be made by pounding garlic with butter, rubbing it through a fine hair sieve, and stirring it into the melted butter. SAUCE (HAM), for Flavouring Gravies.—Chop, and pound very fine, the lean of ham, add a small quantity of gravy, put it in a saucepan over a slow fire, and stir it for some time, then put in some sweet herbs, pepper, and veal gravy ; simmer till it has acquired the flavour of the herbs, and strain off for use. SAUCE (HERB).—Work a little butter into a spoonful or two of flour, melt it in a saucepan, then add some chopped parsley, borage, chervil, cress, scallions, and tarragon ; boil for fifteen minutes, and add a little good stock. Serve very hot. SAUCE (HORSERADISH).—Grate a small horseradish, and mix with it double its quantity of cream and a little salt ; stir quickly, and gradually add a small quantity of vinegar, a little sherry wine, or walnut174 ketchup, and some made mustard. It is sometimes seasoned with clove and cayenne pepper. SAUCE (INDIAN), for Cold Meat.—Slice two heads of garlic, and add two tablespoonfuls of soy, the same amount of mushroom ketchup, three tablespoonfuls of walnut pickle, a dozen anchovies, and a quart of vinegar. Put it into a bottle, and let it stand near the fire for a month, shaking it up each day. SAUCE (LAMB).—Mix a little butter with crumbs of bread, and finely-shred parsley and shallots; add a cupful of good stock or beef gravy, season with pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon or orange. Boil the whole together for a few minutes. Some cooks add white wine in the same proportion as the stock. SAUCE (LIVER), for Fish.—Boil the liver of the fish, and pound it in a marble mortar with a little flour, stir it into some of the water in which the fish was boiled ; add a little parsley and essence of anchovy, and a few grains of cayenne ; boil them together for a moment or two, then rub it through a sieve, and serve. SAUCE (LOBSTER).—Cut a lobster into small dice; pound the spawn with a little butter and four anchovies, and rub through a hair sieve. Put the lobster into a stew-pan with half a pint of gravy and a bit of butter rolled in flour ; set over a slow fire and stir till it boils. If not thick enough add a little more flour, and boil again. Put the spawn in and simmer it, but do not let it boil, as it might spoil the colour of the sauce. Add a little lemon pickle or lemon juice. SAUCE (MAtTRE D’HOTEL), for Fish.—Put into a stew-pan some finely-chopped parsley, a small shallot, and a piece of butter ; sweat them over the fire, dry up the butter with flour, then add some good stock and a slice of ham ; boil together; strain through a tammy, and season with lemon, cayenne, salt, and a pinch of sugar. SAUCE (MINT).—Wash the mint, pick the leaves from the stalks and dry them, chop them finely, and put about two tablespoonfuls into a tureen with two teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, a pinch of salt, and a gill of vinegar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. It should be prepared two or three hours before it is wanted. SAUCE (MUSHROOM).—Make some rather thin cream sauce, add a few young mushrooms ; stew to the proper consistence, and serve. SAUCE (ONION).—Peel four large onions, put them into a stew- pan, cover with water, and boil till half done, then pour off the water and add fresh ; when boiled tender, strain off the second water, put the onions on a board, and chop finely. Melt in a saucepan one ounce of butter; mix in half an ounce of flour, and stir it over the fire for one minute ; then pour in gradually half a pint of milk, stir until it boils and thickens, add the onions with a saltspoonful of salt, simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. Time, about one hour. SAUCE (OYSTER), for Fish or Fowl.—Open two dozen oysters, and put them, with their liquor, into a stew-pan, adding a spoonful of water. When the liquor boils the oysters are done. Take them out w'ith a spoon, and drain them on a hair sieve. Let the liquor settle, and pour it off clear into another vessel. Beard the oysters, and wash them again in the liquor, to remove all grit and sand ; then put a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan with a spoonful or two of flour ; when the flour is fried a little, moisten it with the oyster liquor and a pint of cream ; let this boil fifteen minutes, and add to it a small bit of glaze. If the sauce be wanted for fish add a little essence of anchovies ; if for fowl omit it. SAUCE (OYSTER), made from Powder.—Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter, half a pint of milk, and half an ounce of oysteri75 powder; set it on a slow fire, stir till it boils, then season with salt. If not thick enough add a small piece of butter rolled in flour. SAUCE (PARSLEY).—Pound the required quantity of parsley, and put it into a saucepan with some good mutton broth ; simmer for a quarter of an hour, and run it through a sieve ; thicken with butter rolled in flour, and just before sending it to table stir in a little lemon juice. SAUCE (POOR MAN’S).—Chop up half a dozen shallots and a little parsley, and simmer them in gravy with a spoonful of vinegar ; season with cayenne pepper and salt. SAUCE (SAGE AND ONION), for Geese, Ducks, &c.—Chop up very fine one ounce of onion and half an ounce of green sage leaves, and put them into a saucepan with half a cup of water ; simmer gently for ten minutes, then add a teaspoonful of pepper and salt, and an ounce of bread crumbs ; stir together, mixing with it four tablespoonfuls of good gravy, and simmer the whole for a few minutes longer. SAUCE (SALAD).—Take the yolks of itwo hard-boiled eggs, rub them through a coarse sieve, and mix them with a tablespoonful of cream, two tablespoonfuls of flask oil, a teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of mustard. Rub the whole together with a wooden spoon till quite smooth, then add three or four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. SAUCE (SHRIMP).—Pick half a pint of shrimps and put them into a saucepan with some melted butter and a little essence of anchovy ; when very hot, add a little lemon juice, and serve at once. SAUCE (TARRAGON), for Fowl.—Put into a saucepan a few branches of green tarragon and a wineglassful of white vinegar ; let it boil for ten minutes, then add three or four spoonfuls of white gravy, and thicken with the yolks of two eggs. Strain through a tammy, add a piece of butter, a little lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and leaves of tarragon cut into dice and blanched very green. SAUCE (TOMATO).—Take a couple of dozen ripe tomatoes, extract the seeds and press out the water ; put the fruit into a stew-pan with an ounce and a half of butter, a small quantity of thyme, and a bay leaf; stir to a pulp over a moderate fire ; add a good cullis, and rub through a sieve ; then put it back into the stew-pan, with salt and cayenne to taste, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. SAUCE (WHITE ITALIAN).—Turn some mushrooms, and throw them into a little water and lemon-juice to keep them white. Chop up some shallots and put them into a stew-pan with a little stock, then chop and add the mushrooms; simmer for a quarter of an hour; stir in a spoonful of cream ; strain; season with salt, a little lemon juice, sugar, and a few drops of garlic vinegar. SAUCE (WOW-WOW), for Boiled Beef.—Put into a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and when it is melted stir into it a tablespoonful of fine flour, half a pint of beef broth, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; simmer together until rather thick, then add some finely-chopped parsley, and two or three pickled cucumbers cut into any fancy shape. When these are warm through, send the whole to table in a tureen. SAUSAGE ROLLS.—Boil the sausages for two minutes, let them cool, take off the skin, and cut them in half. Make a light paste, roll it out thinly, and cut it in pieces about five inches square. Put half a sausage on each piece of paste, wet the edge and fold the paste over, bringing the join at the top ; mark with the back of a knife, place on a greased tin, brush over with egg, and bake in a brisk oven for about thirty minutes.SAUSAGES, To Make.—See under Beef and Pork. SAUSAGE SKINS, To Prepare.—Turn the skins inside out, stretch them upon a stick, and wash and scrape them until they are thoroughly cleansed ; then remove them from the sticks, and soak them in salt and water for a couple of hours before filling. SCALD HEAD, To Cure.—Mix together beef marrow and lamp- black or wood soot, cut off the hair, and apply the ointment after washing the head with soap and warm water. SCONES (SCOTCH).—To a pound of flour add a large spoonful of baking powder and a little salt; mix thoroughly while dry, rub in two ounces of butter, beat up one egg well in a quarter of a pint of milk or water, then mix the whole together quickly, and bake immediately in a quick oven. Will make eight good scones. SCORZONERA.—This root is scraped and boiled in the same way as parsnips. It is of a mild, sweetish flavour, and is much esteemed on the Continent. It is propagated by seed sown in April in rows about fifteen inches apart, and thinned out to six or seven inches in the row. SCROFULOUS SORES, Salve for.—Mix together one dram of ioduret of zinc and one ounce of lard. Apply the salve to the sores twice a day. SCURF IN THE HEAD.—Put a piece of fresh quick-lime, the size of a walnut, in a pint of water, let it stand for ten hours, then pour off the water clear of sediment, add a gill of vinegar, and with the mixture wash the roots of the hair. Or, stir quilla bark into warm water till it forms a lather, and wash the head with it once a week. SCURVY.—Eat plenty of vegetables and ripe fruit, with fresh animal food ; also take lemon juice freely. Avoid cold and damp. SEALING-WAX.—Rosin, three parts; shellac, two parts; Venice turpentine, one part. Melt together carefully, then stir in vermilion, Venetian red, red lead, smalt, lamp-black, or any other colouring matter. SEA WATER (ARTIFICIAL), for Aquariums.—Dissolve in four gallons of rain water fourteen ounces of chloride of sodium and one ounce of sulphate of magnesia, the above to be of avoirdupois weight; then add the following:—Chloride of magnesium, thirteen scruples one dram (troy), and chloride of potassium, two scruples two drams (troy). Let the water stand for some time to season before using it for fish or anemones. SEAWEED, To Preserve.—Wash the seaweed in fresh water, spread it out into a natural form, press it between two boards and several sheets of blotting-paper, putting a piece of fine muslin between the weed and the paper, which must be dried each day until all moisture has been absorbed from the seaweed ; then brush the coarser kinds over with spirits of turpentine into two-thirds of a phial of which two or three small lumps of gum-mastic have been dissolved, by shaking in a warm place. This will cause them to retain a fresh appearance. SEEDS, To Preserve.—Birch seeds may be kept till sowing time in spring, by mixing them with sand, not too dry, turning the heap regu- larly two or three times a month. Sycamore seed, well dried, may be kept in bags until spring. SEEDS, To Protect from the Ravages of Birds.—Larch, Scotch Fir, Spruce Fir, and such like seeds, may be preserved from the ravages of birds, by rolling them in red lead just before sowing. The young plants do not appear to suffer in the least from thus coating the seeds. SEIDLITZ POWDERS.—Wrap in blue paper two drams of Rochelle salts and two scruples of bicarbonate of soda. In a white paper put thirty grains of tartaric acid. When required for use dissolve the177 contents of the blue paper in half a tumbler of water, then add the tartaric acid, and drink while the powder is effervescing. SELTZER WATER (ARTIFICIAL).—To each gallon of pure water add one scruple of magnesia alba, six scruples of fossil alkali, and four scruples of common salt, and saturate the whole with fixed air by means of one of the ordinary glass machines. SHALLOTS, To Grow.—Divide the large roots into separate off- sets, and plant them in spring, or in October or November, two inches deep, and at a distance of six or eight inches. The roots will attain full growth in July or August, when they should be taken up, dried, and housed. They will keep good till the following year. SHAMPOO LIQUID.—Dissolve half an ounce of carbonate of ammonia in a pint of water, and add five ounces of Spanish fly and one gallon of old rum. Moisten the hair with a little of the mixture, rub it well in, wash the head afterwards with cold water, and rub it thoroughly dry. This is a capital hair tonic. SHEEP OR LAMB’S TROTTERS.—Stew them for several hours, until the bones will come from them without having to break the skin; stuff them with quenelles or forcemeat, boil them again in their liquor for a quarter of an hour or so, glaze them, and send to table with tomato sauce. SHEEP’S HEAD (STEWED).—Wash the head thoroughly, and put it with the lights into a pot with two quarts of water and a couple of pounds of shin of beef; boil slowly for an hour ; then wash and string two or three handfuls of spinach, and add it to the stew with one or two onions, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. SHEEP’S TONGUES (STEWED).—Put them over the fire in cold water, and boil till sufficiently tender to remove the skin with ease, then take them out, cut them open, and lay them in a stew-pan ; cover with good gravy, and add some finely-chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallot ; flavour with pepper and salt, and work in a piece of butter. When the tongues are tender, lay them in a dish, strain the gravy, and pour it over them. SHEEP, To Cure Rot in.—When sheep are newly bought in, it will preserve their health to give them a tablespoonful of the juice of rue leaves mixed with a little salt. If they show signs of the rot give the mixture every week, or oftener if the case requires. SHEEP, To Destroy Maggots in.—Put into a bottle one quart of water, a tablespoonful of spirits of wine, and as much sublimate of mercury as will lie upon a shilling. Pass a goose-quill through the cork, so that only a little of the mixture will flow out at the time, and shake before using. Drop a little of the liquid upon the spot, and afterwards apply train-oil to the place. SHEEP, Wash for.—Dissolve one pound of powdered arsenic and and nine pounds of soft soap in ten gallons of water. This mixture to be diluted with sufficient water to wash one hundred sheep. SHELLS, To Polish.—Many shells which have a plain appearance on the outside by reason of the epidermis, or skin, with which they are covered, can be made to look very beautiful by steeping them in warm water and then rubbing them with a nail brush. If the epidermis is thick add a little nitric acid to the water before laying them in soak, but great caution must be used in employing this agent, as it not only destroys the adhesion but also the lustre on every part of the shell with which it comes in contact. When the acid has been successfully used on a portion only of the shell, rather than risk deterioration, remove it from the bath and finish off with a file or pumice-stone, and when the whole of the skin has 24ij8 been taken off, wash the shell in a little water in which a small portion of gum-arabic has been dissolved, or coat it with white of egg. SHERBET (LEMON).—Take the rinds of three or four lemons and rub them on to loaf sugar until all the yellow part is absorbed, then pour on to the sugar a quart of boiling water, and when the liquor is cold add the juice of the lemons. SHERBET, To Manufacture.—Ground white sugar, half a pound ; tartaric acid, a quarter of a pound ; carbonate of soda, a quarter of a pound ; essence of lemon, forty drops. Dry the powders ; add the essence to the sugar, then the other powders ; stir all together and pass through a hair sieve. Keep in tightly-corked bottles. In making the above the sugar must be ground ; if merely powdered the coarser parts remain un- dissolved. SHRIMPS (POTTED).—Pick some newly-boiled shrimps from their shells, season them well with pepper, mace, and salt, pack them closely in a pot, set them in a slow oven for ten minutes, and when cold pour over them some clarified butter. SILK (BLACK), To Renovate.—Put half a dozen drops of liquid ammonia in a saucerful of water ; sponge the silk, and iron upon the wrong side. If lump ammonia be used take a piece the size of a Spanish nut to each saucerful of water. SILK (BLACK), To Revive.—Put into two quarts of water a large handful of ivy or fig leaves. Boil down to a pint, squeeze the leaves, and bottle off the liquid for use. Apply with a sponge. SILKS AND SATINS, To Clean.—Mix together a quarter of a pound of soft soap, a quarter of a pound of honey, the white of an egg, and a glassful of gin. Brush the article thoroughly with the mixture, using a rather hard brush, rinse in cold water, let it drain, and iron upon the wrong side while still damp. SILKS (DELICATE), To Clean.—Delicate coloured silks may be cleaned without injury to the colour or fabric by using the pulp of a few potatoes, finely scraped, with water. SILK. To Dye it Blue.—Wash the silk perfectly clean, then boil together in a gallon of water, two pounds of woad, one pound of indigo, and three ounces of alum ; immerse the silk therein until it assumes the depth of colour desired ; rinse, dry, and iron it on the wrong side. SILK. To Dye it Carnation.—Boil half a gallon of wheat and a quarter of an ounce of alum in a gallon of water ; strain through a fine sieve. Then dissolve two ounces more of alum and white tartar ; add it to the other liquor, with three-quarters of a pound of madder, and while it is still at a moderate heat put in the silk. SILK. To Dye it Crimson.—Put a little cudbear into a pan, pour boiling water upon it; stir, and let it stand a few minutes, then put in the silk until it has become of the depth of colour desired. The addition of a little archil will produce a deeper dye. Dry the silk in the shade, and press it on the wrong side. SILK. To Dye it Madder Red.—To a gallon of water add one ounce of pearlash ; boil the silk therein ; rinse it in clear water, and after it has dried, steep it in a decoction of bruised nutgalls ; dry it again and steep it in a bath of alum water ; dry, and boil in a decoction of madder— three-quarters of a pound of the root to every pound of the article—then wash it in soap and water, dry, and press it smooth. SILK. To Dye it Yellow. —To five pounds of wheat bran liquor add a quarter of a pound of alum, and when it has dissolved put in the silk and boil it for two hours ; then add three ounces of weld, or dyer’s179 weed, and boil the silk to a good colour. The colour may be fixed by adding nitrate and alum and water to the first boiling. SILK, To Remove Grease or Wax Stains from.—Scrape the grease from the silk, and gently rub on the spot a little French chalk and lavender water, mixed to the consistence of cream. Lay a sheet or two of blotting- paper over it and apply a warm iron. When the chalk is dry remove it, and dust the silk with a soft brush. SILK, To Remove Oil Stains from.—Mix together two parts of benzine and one part of alcohol sixty degrees overproof; place the stained part over two or three folds of flannel or blotting-paper, and moisten the oil stain with the mixture. The stain will disappear after a few applica- tions. Care must be taken not to let a light come into contact with the benzine. SILK, To Restore the Colour of.—Silks that have had the colour taken out of them by acids may be restored by applying a little hartshorn or sal-volatile to the spot. SILK (VIOLET), To Restore.—Violet silk which has lost its colour through the action of acids may be restored in the following way :— First brush with tincture of iodine the portion of fabric affected ; after a few seconds, well saturate the spot with a solution of hyposulphite of soda, and dry gradually in the air. SILKWORMS’ EGGS, The Hatching of.—These eggs may be prevented from hatching, even in summer, by keeping them in a cool place. When the food for the worm is in perfection, and it is desired to increase the stock, expose the eggs for a day or two to the heat of the sun, and the worm will be produced with facility. SILVER ORNAMENTS, To Clean.—Wash with hot water and soap, and polish with a soft leather and jeweller’s rouge, the latter just moistened with spirits of wine. Or brush the ornaments with spirits of ammonia, and afterwards wash them in a basin of water, adding a piece of soft soap the size of a walnut ; dry with a linen rag, and afterwards before the fire, so as to cause all moisture to evaporate, for if any damp be left behind the silver will tarnish. See also Plate, To Clean. SILVER-PLATING.—Small articles may be silver-plated in the following way:—Nitrate of silver, one part ; common salt, one part ; cream of tartar, seven parts ; powder and mix, then apply by wetting with a little water, and rubbing on the article to be plated with a wash-leather, which must be perfectly clean. SILVER SPOONS, To Take Medicine Stains from.—Dip a soft rag in sulphuric acid, rub it on to the spoon, and then wash it off with soap and water. SILVER, To Take Ink Stains Out of.-^Ink stains may be re- moved from inkstands, and other silver articles with a little chloride of lime mixed with water. SIZE, A Useful.—Boil to a jelly the threads and parings of parch- ment, vellum, or leather, and strain it through a sieve. SIZE (GOLD), for Gilders, &c.—Grind fine bole on a marble slab, add thereto a little beef suet, and triturate the whole together; then dissolve some common size in twice its quantity of water, and mix it with the other ingredients. SIZE (SILVER), for Carvers, &c.—Pulverize a small quantity of black-lead and tobacco-pipe clay, then grind them with a little Genoa soap, and mix with ordinary size. SKATE (BOILED).—Take a fish that has been out of the water one day, clean, and cut it into narrow pieces, and boil it in salted wateri8o for a quarter of an hour, then add a little vinegar to the water, and boil the fish till it is done. Garnish with horse-radish, and serve with cockle or shrimp sauce. SKELETON LEAVES, To Prepare.—Put the fresh leaves in a pan of water, and leave them to soak for six or eight weeks without changing the water. When soaked enough, put each leaf in an earthen- ware plate, with sufficient water to cover it, and brush it gently with a camel’s-hair pencil until the skin and pulp separate from the fibres. Pour fresh water on the plate, to wash the skeleton free from pulp, and then lay it on blotting-paper to dry. To get them white, put them for an hour or two in a solution of chloride of lime, made by pouring three quarts of water on a quarter of a pound of chloride of lime ; rinse the specimens with clear water, and dry them between blotting-paper. The following is a more expeditious method :—Take a tablespoonful of liquid chloride of lime, and mix it with a quart of spring water ; soak the leaves and seed vessels in this for four or five hours, according to their texture; then take them out, well wash them in a basin of water, and leave them to dry by exposing to light and air. Or soak them in a weak solution of sulphuric acid, or in strong vinegar, until the body of the leaves is eaten away and only the fibres remain. SKIN (ERUPTIONS OF THE), Lotion for.—Milk of bitter almonds, seven ounces ; bichloride of mercury, four grains, and spirits of rosemary, one ounce. Bathe the face or other part where the eruption has broken out three times a day, and keep the bowels well open. SKIN, To Soften.—Put a tablespoonful of flour of sulphur into a teacupful of milk. Let it stand for six or seven hours, and rub the milk into the hands, &c., before washing, taking care not to disturb the sulphur. A wineglassful is quite sufficient to make at one time, as it should never be used after it has stood for more than eight or ten hours. SKIN (WHITE), To Procure a.—Take half a wineglassful of new milk, and add thereto a couple of drops of tincture of benzoin, and enough rice flour to form a paste. Put it on at night, and in the morning wash in salt and water. The following is also commonly used : To a pint of water add a pound of oatmeal. Boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain off the liquid, and use it for bathing. At night apply a little cold cream. SKINS WITH THE HAIR ON, To Preserve.—Soak the skin in water for one day, then clean it well of fat; next take alum, three pounds ; rock salt, four ounces ; dissolve in as much water as will cover the skin ; boil the solution, and when lukewarm put in the skin, and soak it for four days, working it well with the hands several times ; take it out and dry in a warm place, but not in the sun. Boil up the water again, repeating the same process with the skin ; wash it well, and beat it with a wooden mallet till quite soft, after which dry it in the shade, rubbing between the hands at intervals. By this means it will be as soft and pliable as doeskin. SKYLARKS.—The male bird is distinguished by the size of his body, the largeness of his eye, the length of his claws, the white in his tail, and the mode of erecting his crest. When kept in confinement the top of the cage should be well padded, so that the bird does not injure itself in its natural attempt to soar while singing. They are generally fed with a little hemp seed, meal worms, elder and other berries, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a paste made as follows:—Soak some stale bread in water, squeeze it dry, and pour over it some boiled milk, then add two- thirds of its bulk of barley or wheat meal. The paste should not be kept longer than two days.i S i SLEEPLESSNESS, To Avert.—Various methods have been devised to accomplish this much desired end, but perhaps the following will be found the most effectual, the first especially when the evil results from over-excitement of the brain :—Wet half a towel, and apply it to the back of the neck, pressing it upwards towards the base of the brain, and fastening the dry half of the towel over so as to prevent too rapid ex- halation. Warm water may be used, but cold is to be preferred. The effect is rapid, cooling to the brain, and inducing sweeter, calmer repose than any narcotic. Another method, which the writer has never known to fail, is to lie with the eyes turned up into the head, as though looking into the brain, which is their natural position during sleep. A pillow stuffed with hops is said to act as a narcotic. SLUGS, To Destroy.—Put some freshly powdered lime into a coarse canvas bag, and dust the ground with it at night, or before sunrise. The smallest particle of the lime will destroy them. Or cut some turnips into slices, and strew them about the garden in the evening. The slugs will congregate thereon, and may be destroyed by throwing them into salt water. They must be looked for very early in the morning, or they will make their escape. SMELLING SALTS.—See Salts (Preston). SMELTS (FRIED), French Way.—Prepare and dry the smelts, dip them in milk, dredge them with flour, and fry them until they are of a fine colour. Serve with crisped parsley. Time, three or four minutes. This delicate fish requires to be carefully handled. SMELTS, To Choose.—When fresh they have a fine silvery hue, and smell somewhat like newly-cut cucumbers. SNAILS, To Prevent Damage from.—Daub the bottom of the wall, trees, &c., with a thick paste made with soot and train-oil. They will not crawl over this. They may be readily caught by spreading a little bran on the ground and covering it with cabbage leaves or broken tiles. Examine the trap each morning. SNAPDRAGON, or Lion’s Mouth.—There are many varieties of this plant, which is an extremely ornamental one for the tops of walls. They all prefer a dry, loamy, or calcareous soil, and are propagated either by seed or cuttings taken from the young shoots every year. Choice kinds should always be obtained in the latter manner, as although seedlings are produced in abundance, they are not to be depended on. SNOW CAKE.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, then gradually add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, half a pound of arrowroot, a pinch of salt, and a flavouring of either lemon, almond, or vanilla. Whisk the whites of three eggs to snow, stir them into the mixture, and beat it again until it is light and white. Butter a shallow mould or tin with raised edges, pour in the batter, and bake in a gentle oven for an hour and a quarter. It should not be allowed to acquire a colour. When done enough, let it cool a little, then with a sharp knife divide it into pieces about two inches square. Keep it in a cool, dry place. SNOWDROPS, To Cultivate.—These plants are well worthy of a place in every garden, on account of their pure and early bloom. They are propagated by off-sets, which should be planted in moist, shady situations during August or September, at a depth of two or three inches. They may remain undisturbed for several years together, although to pre- vent them growing uneven and rugged, it is advisable to take them up every three or four years, but they must not be removed from the earth till their leaves have withered.182 SOAP (ALMOND).—Cut into slices four pounds of white tallow soap, melt it in a copper pan by the heat of a water bath, add one ounce of essential oil of almonds, and pour into moulds. SOAP (CHEMICAL).—Put into a basin half a pound of fine rice powder, two ounces of powdered bismuth, three ounces of orange- flower water, and half an ounce of essence of ambergris ; mix well together, then add one pound of finely grated white oil soap ; beat the whole twice a day for five days ; cut into squares, and dry upon sheets of paper in a very slow oven. SOAP (CINNAMON). —To five pounds of yellow soap add three pounds of palm-oil soap, two ounces of essence of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of bergamot, and two ounces of yellow ochre. Mix over the fire, and pour into moulds. SOAP (HONEY). —Cut into thin slices a pound of curd soap, put it into a saucepan with a pint of sweet milk ; simmer till the soap is melted, then add a couple of spoonfuls of honey, and simmer again till the whole is well mixed ; scent it with oil of lavender or bergamot, and put it into shapes. SOAP (ROSE).—Mix twelve pounds of olive oil soap with eight pounds of best tallow soap, and half a pint of water. Melt in a covered copper pan by means of a water bath. Colour with an ounce and a half of finely levigated vermilion, and when the mixture has cooled a little, add an ounce and a half of otto of roses ; or an ounce and a quarter of essence of bergamot; or else three-quarters of an ounce of oil of cloves, and a like quantity of oil of cinnamon. SOAP (TRANSPARENT), To Make.—Cut into thin slices twro ounces of white Windsor soap, put it into a jar, and pour over it half a pint of alcohol, with a small quantity of any vegetable hue ; the latter only to be used if it be desired to colour the soap. Expose the jar to a gentle heat, and when the soap has become thoroughly blended with the spirit, add a few drops of perfume, and pour into small moulds to cool. SODA WATER POWDERS.—Dissolve thirty grains of car- bonate of soda in half a pint of water, then add twenty-five grains of tartaric acid ; stir, and drink at once. One pound of carbonate of soda, and thirteen and a half ounces of tartaric acid will make 256 powders at a cost of about half a crown. In making them up in quantities the soda should be put into blue papers, and the acid in white, after the usual manner of papering up seidlitz powders. SOLDER FOR LEAD.—Lead, two parts; tin, one part. Apply rosin before putting on the solder. SOLDER FOR PEWTER.—Bismuth, three parts; lead, two parts ; tin, one part. SOLDER, FOR SILVER, BRASS, OR IRON.—Melt to- gether five pennyweights of silver and four pennyweights of brass. SOLDER (GOLD).—Pure gold, twelve pennyweights; pure silver, two pennyweights ; copper, four pennyweights. Fuse together. SOLDER (SILVER).—Fuse together nineteen pennyweights of fine silver, one pennyweight of copper, and ten pennyweights of brass. SOLDERING WITH TINFOIL.—Dip a feather in a solution of sal-ammoniac and apply to the surfaces of the metal to be joined ; place a piece of tinfoil between, and put the whole on to an iron plate, sufficiently hot to melt the foil. When cold the surfaces will be found to be firmly united. SOLES (BOILED).—Gut and skin the fish, wash them in clear water, then lay them in salt and water with a little vinegar for two hours. Put them into a stew-pan with an onion, sweet herbs, pepper and salt, coverthem with water, and boil gently for eight minutes. When done, strain the liquor, thicken it with white roux, pour the sauce over the fish, and garnish with lemon and horse-radish or sliced cucumber. SOLES (FRIED).—Skin and trim the fish, cut them open, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard to a light, but not pale brown. Send to table on a napkin with whole lemons. SOLES, To Carve.—When large, strike the fish-slice along the backbone, and serve square slices from the thick part, but the tail end should be served whole ; when small, cut the fish crosswise. SOLES, To Choose.—When fresh the flesh is firm, and the belly has a fine creamy appearance; when stale they are flabby, and the skin has a bluish tint. SOMNAMBULISM.—If the person habitually walks in his sleep the best course to take is to obtain medical advice; but where the habit is only occasional the laying of wet cloths all round the bedside will be found efficacious, for when the sleeper rises in the night and essays to walk the room, the sudden contact with the cold cloths will have an awakening effect. SORREL, To Grow.—This pot-herb may be raised from seed in the spring and transplanted ; but it is better to part the off-sets of the root in spring or autumn, and plant them a foot apart. SOUP (CLEAR), An Excellent.—Cut into very small pieces a pound of salt beef or pork, put it into a saucepan with six quarts of cold water, and boil it for three-quarters of an hour over a slow fire. When the meat is done, cut into slices some carrots, turnips, potatoes, and a cabbage, and boil these with the meat an hour longer ; then thicken with a pint of oatmeal, added gradually, and stir it well for ten minutes without intermis- sion. Season with pepper and salt. SOUP (PORTABLE).—Put into a stew-pan three pounds of beef, a shin of beef, two knuckles of veal, and a cow-heel; just cover the whole with water; add two or three onions and seasoning to taste. Stew the meat to ribbons, strain, and stand in a cold place. Take off the fat and boil it over a brisk fire for eight hours, keeping it well stirred ; then pour it out and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Put the soup into a large basin, and stand it in a stew-pan of boiling water, but so that none of the water will bubble into the soup, and keep it boiling until the soup is reduced to a good consistence. Pour into tin canisters and keep in a dry, cool place. SPASMS, To Relieve.—Best brandy, half a pint; essence of peppermint, twenty drops ; laudanum, forty drops. Mix. One teaspoonful to be taken in a wine-glass of warm water when required. SPINACH, To Cook.—Pick and wash three or four pounds of spinach, thoroughly freeing it from grit by means of successive waters, observing that no stalks are left. Drain it in a colander, put it into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of salt, but no water ; set it over the fire, and keep the lid on until the juices begin to draw. When the liquor boils, take the lid off the saucepan, and stir the spinach now and again to prevent it burning. When perfectly tender—it generally takes about a quarter of an hour—drain and press it in a sieve until dry ; then put it back into the saucepan with one ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of cream, or a little milk, and stir over the fire until it is dry and smooth. Make hot some small cup moulds, press the spinach into them, turn out, and garnish the dish of meat. SPINACH, To Grow.—The triangular-leaved spinach is sown the beginning of August for winter use ; the round-leaved in the spring to cut for summer use. For a main crop, sow the seed broad-cast and rake it in thinning the plants out to a distance of from three to five inches. If sow» in drills, put the plants a foot asunder.184 SPONGE CAKES.—Rub the rind of a lemon upon half a pound of loaf sugar, and put it with half a dozen whole eggs into an earthen pan. Stand the pan in boiling water, keeping the contents well mixed until rather warm ; then remove the pan from the water, and whisk until quite cold aud somewhat thick, and stir in gently half a pound of sifted flour. Have ready buttered and dusted with sugar a dozen small sponge cake tins, put a tablespoonful of the mixture into each ; sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. SPONGES, To Clean.—Steep the sponge in buttermilk for some two or three hours, then squeeze it out, and wash it in cold water. Lemon- juice is also good. SPRAINS, Liniment for.—Take an ounce and a half of strong liniment of ammonia, an ounce of oil of turpentine, an ounce of spirits of camphor, and a quarter of an ounce of yellow soap. Mix well, saturate a piece of flannel, and apply it to the sprain, covering the flannel with a dry bandage. SPRAINS, Lotion for.—Add two drams of Goulard’s extract of lead and the same quantity of sulphuric ether to a pint of cold water. This lotion will subdue the inflammation and give relief from pain. SPRING MIXTURE.—Carbonate of soda, Epsom salts, cream of tartar, and loaf sugar, of each two ounces; tartaric acid, one ounce; citrate of magnesia, one ounce; and essence of lemon, a few drops. Reduce the whole to a fine powder, mix, and keep well corked. For a dose take one tablespoonful in two-thirds of a glass of water. SPRUCE BEER.—Pour eight gallons of boiling water on to the same quantity of cold water; add sixteen pounds of treacle or molasses, and a few tablespoonfuls of essence of spruce, and stir the whole together ; then add half a pint of yeast and set it in a warm room for a couple of days, leaving the bung-hole open. When fermentation has abated, close up the cask, or bottle off the beer, and in a few days it will be fit to drink. This forms a cheap and refreshing beverage, and is a powerful antiscor- butic. SQUIRRELS. —These animals should in a domestic state be provided with a revolving cylinder in their cage, so that they may always keep themselves upon the move with a minimum amount of exertion. They require to be kept very clean, and the food best suited to their taste consists of nuts (especially hazel) and bread and milk. STABLES, To Disinfect.—Take two parts by weight of sulphate of iron (copperas) and one part by weight of slacked lime ; mix them thoroughly, and let them lie in a heap for five hours ; then add and mix two parts by weight of dried and powdered clay. This powder will be found preferable to carbolic acid or tar, and was largely used in the army stables during the American war. The best time for applying it is before making the bed in the evening, when the stall has been thoroughly swept; a dusting, or thin coating, will be sufficient to last the night. In the morning, after cleaning the stall again, another application should be made. STARCH (GUM-ARABIC), for Cambric, Muslin, &c.— Pound to a powder a quarter of a pound of gum-arabic, and pour on to it a quart of boiling water, cover it over, and set it aside for several hours ; then pour it carefully from the dregs, put it into a bottle, cork it well, and keep it for use. When required, put a tablespoonful into each pint of starch. This imparts a newness to thin goods after they are washed. STEEL (CAST), To Unite.—Pound a piece of borax to a powder and moisten it with water; then scarve and prepare the steel in the same manner as iron is done ; dip the steel occasionally while heating into themoist borax, which will cause it to fuse before it attains that heat which will burn the steel, and when at the point of fusion it will unite the same as iron. STEEL, To Write on.—Hold the metal over a clear charcoal fire till it is blue, then write the desired letters upon it with oil colours ; when they are dry take some strong vinegar, make it warm, and pour it over the steel to remove the blue tint; afterwards wet the oil colour with water, and it will readily come off, leaving the lettering behind. STIMULANT, A Natural.—Take of composition powder (for the preparation of which see Colds, Composition Powder for), one ounce ; loaf sugar, one pound ; boiling water, one quart. Mix well ; let it stand for twelve hours ; strain off the liquid, and bottle for use. A wineglassful may be taken in a tumbler of hot water, or neat, according to taste. It may be used in the family circle or at friendly meetings. STOCK FOR BROWN SOUPS.—Cut up four or five pounds of shin of beef, a cow’s foot, half a pound of lean ham, half a pound of poultry giblets, two large onions, a couple of carrots, a small head of celery, and a few savoury herbs; put them in a stew-pan with four quarts of water ; add two ounces of salt, an ounce of loaf sugar, half an ounce of pepper-corns, and a quarter of an ounce of mace. Stew for seven hours ; strain through a fine sieve, put aside to set, and remove the oil from the top. The strength of the soup made from this stock can be regulated according to taste. STONES, Indian Method of Polishing.—Mix powdered corundum with melted lac, and as the mixture cools, shape it into oblong pieces, three or four inches in length. Sprinkle the stones with water, and rub them with these oblong masses, using those of fine and finer grain as the polish increases. STONES (PRECIOUS), A Test for.—The readiest means of distinguishing precious stones from imitations is to touch them with the tongue. The real stone will feel cold, while the paste will be much less so. STOVES, To Impart a Brilliant Appearance to.—A teaspoonful of pulverised alum mixed with black-lead will give the stove a fine lustre, which will be quite permanent. STOVES, To Restore Stained.—Clean off all grease, dirt, and black-lead with turpentine first, then with strong liquid ammonia and soft water. When thoroughly dry, give a coat of black paint, and when this is sufficiently hard, proceed with black-lead in the ordinary way. STRAWBERRIES, To Preserve.—Pick and weigh a number of fine large strawberries, add the same weight of powdered sugar, and put them in a preserving-pan over a slow fire till the sugar is melted ; then boil them as fast as possible for twenty minutes. Make hot a number of small jars, pour the fruit in boiling hot, lay a paper soaked in brandy over the top, cork and seal the jars at once, and keep them through the summer in a cold, dry cellar, and a little removed from the wall. STRAWBERRY-BEDS.—The following is the American method of making new strawberry-beds :—Line off strips of the old bed about six inches wide and a foot and a half apart; cut them into squares, take them up with three inches of earth about their roots, and set them in the new bed eighteen inches apart. By this means the plants will bear fruit the first year, and it allows of the introduction of new soil to the old bed. The operation may be performed at the beginning of March if the weather is sufficiently advanced. STRAW HATS, To Bleach.—Put them in a box with a saucer filled with burning sulphur, and cover up for four-and-twenty hours, so that the fumes may act upon them. 25STRAW HATS, To Clean.—Wash them with soap and water, rinse In clear water, dry in the air, and then wash them over with the white of an egg, beaten to a froth. STRAW HATS. To Dye them Black.—Boil for three or four hours in a strong liquor of logwood, adding a little copperas ; let the hats remain in the liquor all night, then take them out and dry in the air. Should the dye not be deep enough, repeat the process. When satis- factory, rub inside and out with a sponge moistened with fine oil, and stand them on a block till dry. STRAW HATS. To Dye them Brown.—Boil them for four hours in half a pound of fustic chips, a quarter of a pound of peachwood, and half an ounce of madder. Then add half a pound of green copperas, boil for two hours longer, and dry, block, and brush them. STRAW MATTING, To Preserve the Colour of.—Straw matting may be kept a good colour by washing it when necessary with salt and wstcr# STRAW PLAIT, To Bleach.—Expose it to the fumes of burning sulphur in a close chest or box, or immerse it in a weak solution of chloride of lime, and afterwards wash it well in water. Oil of vitriol, or oxalic acid mixed with water is also used for the same purpose. STUCCO WORK, To Polish.—When the plaster is dry, rub it with pumice-stone, then with a whet-stone, afterwards with tripoli, and finally go over it with a piece of felt dipped in soap suds. STURGEON (BOILED). —To two quarts of water add a pint of vinegar, a stick of horse-radish, half the peel of a lemon, pepper, salt, and two bay leaves. Put in the fish, and boil gently till tender. Garnish with fried oysters, horse-radish, and lemon, and serve with anchovy butter. STURGEON (BROILED).—Cut the fish into slices, dip them in egg and bread crumbs, sprinkle with parsley, pepper, and salt, wrap them in white paper, and broil gently on a greased gridiron. Serve with butter of anchovy and soy. STURGEON (ROAST).—Cut the fish into good slices, without removing the skin ; roast tenderly on a cork-spit, basting frequently with butter. Serve with sorrel and anchovy sauce. STYES, The Treatment of.—Bathe the stye frequently with warm water, and take a little opening medicine. When the stye is broken, apply ointment of citron and spermaceti. SUGAR, To Clarify.—Put into an enamelled stew-pan four pounds of fine sugar and a quart of cold water. Beat to a froth the white of an egg, put it with the sugar, and boil gently till no scum rises and the sugar is perfectly clear ; strain through a cloth, and keep in closely-corked bottles. SUNBURN, Wash for.—Two drams of borax, one dram of rock alum, one dram of camphor, half an ounce of sugar candy, and one pound of ox-gall. Mix, and stir well for ten minutes or so, and repeat the stirring three or four times a day for a fortnight, till it appears clear and trans- parent, then strain through blotting paper, and bottle for use. SUN PEELINGS, SCALDS, &c., Lotion for.—Mix equal parts of linseed oil and lime water. Shake well before using. SWEDES OR TURNIPS, To Prevent Destruction of.—In a dry, hot season the “fly" will frequently destroy a field of swedes or turnips in the course of a few days. To avoid this disaster it is advisable to sow in a well-prepared seed bed, and by the use of super-phosphate to urge the young plant as rapidly as possible into the rough leaf, in which stage it loses its chief attraction for its most notorious insect foe.187 SWEETBREADS.—Put them into boiling water for eight or ten minutes, then throw them into cold water to blanch. They may be cut in slices or dice and put into fricassees or ragouts ; or they may be smeared with the yolk of egg, covered with bread crumbs and hung before the fire to roast. In the latter case, serve with fried bread crumbs and melted butter, with a spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a little lemon juice. SWEETBREADS (PLAIN).—Parboil them for about five minutes, dry in a cloth, cut into slices, sprinkle with flour, and fry to a light brown ; drain off the fat, garnish with sliced lemon and curled parsley, and serve with forcemeat balls and egg sauce. SWEET WILLIAMS, To Propagate.—Sow the seed in spring in a well-manured bed, and in October prick the plants out where they are to bloom, allowing a distance of six inches in every direction. They do best on a well-drained, light, rich loam. SWELLINGS AND INFLAMMATION, To Reduce.—To a dram and a half of extract of lead add two ounces of rectified spirits of wine, twelve ounces of distilled water, and sufficient bread crumbs to form a moderately thick poultice. This will not only lessen the inflammation and reduce the swelling, but will allay the irritation. SWELLINGS, Lotion for.—Put into a bottle five drams of camphor and half a pint of spirits of wine, cork closely, and when quite dissolved, add half a pint of ox-gall and sixty drops of laudanum. Shake well, and bottle ready for use. This lotion will also allay inflammation and cure bruises and cuts. SWISS ROLL.—Beat to a cream six ounces of butter ; next beat together three eggs and six ounces of crushed white sugar ; incorporate the butter and eggs, then add very lightly indeed their weight in flour, and at the last minute stir in half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Have ready a shallow baking tin lined with paper which has been greased on both sides ; spread the mixture thinly but evenly over it and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Turn it out on to a sheet of paper with sugar dredged over it, spread with jam, roll it up and lay it on a sieve to cool. SYRUP FOR PRESERVES.—Dissolve two pounds of sugar in half a pint of hot water, add the white of an egg well beaten ; put it into a saucepan and boil quickly for a few moments, skimming it till quite clear. SYRUP PUDDING.—Mix with the flour half a saltspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and a quarter of a pound of suet or dripping ; add two tablespoonfuls of syrup dissolved in half a pint of milk. Butter a basin, and put it about three parts full, flour the top, tie it down with a cloth, and steam it from two to three hours. Serve with sweet sauce. SYRUP, To Clarify.—Beat to a froth the white of an egg with half a cup of water, mix it with the syrup, and boil together for a few seconds ; then remove the scum, either by filtration or otherwise. TABLE ORNAMENT, A Cheap and Pretty.—Take a goblet with the stem broken off, cover it with coarse flannel sewed together to prevent it slipping, stand it in a saucerful of water ; wet the flannel and sprinkle over as much flax seed as will adhere to it ; replenish the saucer from time to time as the water becomes absorbed by the flannel, and in two or three weeks the flannel will be concealed in a beautiful verdure, which will bear comparison with most table ornaments. TABLES &c., To Polish.—Loo, dining and other polished tables, may, on becoming dull, be made to resume their brightness by constantly rubbing them with a linen rag dipped in cold-drawn linseed oil.TAN.—Reduce nut-galls to a coarse powder, infuse them in water, and evaporate the solution to dryness. The dark matter left behind is the tan. It may also be precipated from the solution by mineral acids. TANSEY, To Propagate.—This strong flavoured aromatic herb is raised from slips or off-sets taken in spring or autumn, and planted a foot or more apart. TAPEWORM, To Eject.—Take from one to two ounces of Venice turpentine every eight hours until the worm be ejected. Santonine is also effectual if taken in doses of from one to six grains, according to age. The liquid extract of the male fern is likewise recommended. TAPEWORM, To Kill.—Digest one ounce of fern buds in eight ounces of sulphuric ether; strain, and take thirty drops before breakfast. Follow this up the next morning with an ounce of castor oil. TAPIOCA PUDDING.—Wash two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in cold water ; strain, put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk and a half- inch stick of cinnamon ; let it simmer slowly till all the milk is absorbed, then take out the cinnamon, and pour the tapioca into a pan to cool. Beat up two eggs with an ounce of moist sugar, stir the mixture into the tapioca ; pour it into a greased pie-dish, grate nutmeg on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. TARRAGON, To Grow.—This fine flavoured aromatic plant, so essential in flavouring soups and salads, is raised from cuttings of the stalks in May and June, in a shady border, and by bottom off-sets in spring. TARTAR, Cream of.—Scrape off the crust from the bottom and side of casks in which wine has been kept ; dissolve it in boiling water, and filter while hot. On cooling, the irregular crystals commonfy known as cream of tartar will be deposited. TAR WATER, To Make.—Boil an ounce of tar in a pint and a half of water, stirring well, then pour it out, let it stand for three or four days, and draw off free from sediment. Useful in chest affections, and to strengthen the voice. TEA CAKES.—To one pound of flour add a large teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt, and a few currants and sultanas ; mix in a dry state ; then rub in two ounces of butter ; beat up one egg in a tea- cupful of milk, and mix the whole together quickly. Bake in a sharp oven. TEA-KETTLES, To Prevent the Furring of.—The incrustation familiarly known as "fur,” which all water except rain water will deposit in the inside of tea-kettles, may be prevented by simply placing a clean oyster-shell in the kettle ; this will attract all the particles of earth or stone, and keep the inside of the kettle in good order. TEA-KETTLES, To Remove Fur from.—Fur may be removed from tea-kettles by applying a strong solution of pearlash. TEA, To Make.—To make tea to perfection the water must be poured on the leaves directly it boils. In no case should water be used which has been boiling for more than five minutes, or which has previously boiled ; for if the water does not boil, or is allowed to overboil, the flavour will be only partially extracted, and consequently the tea itself will be spoiled. The water should remain on the leaves at least ten minutes before it is served out. TEETH, Cement for Stopping Decayed.—Dissolve one part of mastic in two parts of collodion. Introduce the cement into the tooth on a small piece of cotton. TEETH (HOLLOW), To Fill.—Take of anhydrous phosphoric acid, forty-eight grains, and pure caustic lime, fifty-two grains ; pulverise them together in a mortar till they are very fine. Having previously189 cleaned and dried the tooth, bring the composition as quickly as possible to the cavity, press it well in, smooth it off, and moisten it on the surface. It soon acquires great hardness, and resembles the substance of a natural tooth. TEETH, Solution for Beautifying the.—Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling water, and before it is quite cold add a tea- spoonful of tincture of myrrh and three teaspoonfuls of spirits of camphor. Bottle the mixture for use, and on each application add one wineglassful to half a pint of water. TEETH, To Strengthen the.—Horace Walpole says that if a piece of alum half the size of the finger nail be dissolved in the mouth, and the process repeated two or three times a week, it will preserve and fortify the teeth till*1 ‘‘ they are as strong as the pen of Junius.” TEETH, To Preserve.—Rub the teeth and gums two or three times a day with a hard brush dipped in flour of sulphur. This is an excellent preservative, and void of any unpleasant smell. TEETH, To Whiten.—Many remedies have been given to effect this desirable object, but while it has been found that soot is unpleasant to the palate and the frequent use of soap turns the teeth yellow, no dis- advantage is experienced by the constant application of charcoal, which not only extirpates tartarous adhesion and leaves the enamel perfectly white, but prevents decay, and removes from the breath any disagreeable smell. TEETHING POWDERS.—Calomel, twenty-four grains; ses- qui-carbonate of soda, thirty-six grains, and compound chalk powder, one dram. Mix, divide into twelve parts, and give one portion when required. TENCH (FRIED).—Take away the gut, wash the fish, dry on a cloth, dust with flour, lay them before a good fire, then fry in hot dripping. Serve with plain butter and curled parsley. THREADWORMS.—These are mostly found in the lower end of the bowels, and hence arises the constant itching and irritation at the seat. Make an infusion with a handful of quassia chips and a tablespoon- ful of salt in a pint of water, and inject a fourth part every night. For the morning meal boil half a dozen pieces of garlic in a pint of milk, and sweeten it with raw sugar. THROAT, Liniment for Diseases of the.—Castile soap, one ounce; oil of sassafras, one ounce ; spirits of hartshorn, one ounce ; camphor, one ounce; spirits of wine, half an ounce ; laudanum, half an ounce ; cayenne pepper, two drams. Put into a bottle and shake together. THROAT (MALIGNANT SORE), Gargle for.—To one part of white vinegar add three parts of honey of roses, and twenty-four parts of barley-water. Use several times a day. THROAT (SORE), Compress for.—Fold a piece of linen into several thicknesses, dip it in cold water, and apply it to the front part of the throat at bed-time ; place a piece of oil-skin over it, and cover this with a thick flannel wrapper. In all probability the soreness or hoarseness will have disappeared by the morning. THROAT (SORE), Gargle for.—Pour a pint of boiling water upon thirty leaves of common sage ; let the infusion stand for half an hour, then add sufficient vinegar to render it moderately acid, and honey to sweeten according to taste. This gargle should be used in the early stage of the complaint. THROAT (SORE), AND ULCERATED MOUTH.—Mix two scruples of powdered alum with four scruples of treacle, and take half a dram as a dose. See also Currant (Black) Syrup.igo THRUSHES.—The male bird is distinguished from the hen by a darker back, a greater gloss upon the feathers, and a whiter belly. Worms, snails, and insects form their natural food, which must be supplied to them when kept in cages, as well as raw meat cut up small and mixed with bread or German paste. Keep them in a warm, sunny situation. THRUSH OR “FROG.”—In this complaint the mouth is lined with little white spots, which also break out on the tongue and gums. In appearance the spots are exactly like fine curds of milk. To remedy the evil rub together equal parts of borax, loaf sugar, and saltpetre, and put a pinch into the child’s mouth three times a day. This preparation must be kept in a dry place. Another remedy is to mix together an ounce of honey and one dram of Roche alum, finely powdered ; dip a rag in it and wash the child’s mouth with it every two hours. Once or twice a week give half a teaspoonful of rhubarb and magnesia. THYME, To Cultivate.—The common green thyme, which is generally used for kitchen purposes, is raised from seed sown in April, either broadcast or in drills, and transplanted in summer, but it may also be propagated like the lemon-scented yellow kind, by parting the roots, and by top slips in the spring, planted about six inches apart. TIC-DOLOUREUX, To Alleviate.—Make a lotion with half a pint of rosewater and two teaspoonfuls of white vinegar. Apply on linen three or four times a day. A fresh linen should be used for each applica- tion. TIN, To Coat Iron or Copper with.—Scour the plates and lay them in sulphuric acid diluted with water, until all the rust or oxide left after the scouring is dissolved. Then wash and again scour them, and dip them in a vessel full of melted tin, the surface of which is covered with fat or oil, to defend it from the action of the air. When a small quantity only is to be tinned, heat the metal, sprinkle it with rosin, and rub the molten tin on with tow or a piece of cloth. Pure grain tin only should be used for such purposes as saucepans and other kitchen utensils, TOBACCO (BRITISH).—Mix together equal portions of colts- foot and plantain leaves, with a smaller proportion of rosemary, thyme, sage, eyebright, wood betony, and yarrow. TOBACCO (HERB).—Hyssop, marjoram, and thyme, of each two ounces ; coltsfoot, three ounces; betony and eyebright, of each four ounces ; rosemary and lavender, of each eight ounces. Mix, press together, and cut up fine. TOBACCO, To Scent.—Tobacco may be scented either by sprink- ling it with perfume or by shutting it up in a jar with a Tonquin bean. TOBACCO WASH FOR PLANTS.—Boil two ounces of common shag tobacco in a pint of water. Apply with a brush to the leaves and stems of the infected plants, and afterwards syringe well with clear water. This wash is a deadly poison to insects. TOE JOINTS (ENLARGED), To Reduce.—Bind a strap round the foot with one pad of linen over the prominence and another between the great toe and the next, and at night rub it with iodide of potassium ointment. TOE NAILS (INGROWING).—Make some tallow very hot and put it on the sore place. The operation causes very little pain if the tallow is thoroughly heated, and it effects a certain cure. TOFFEE (BUTTER).—To one pound of raw sugar add three ounces of butter ; stir it over the fire till it comes to the crackled degree, flavour with lemon-juice, and pour it into greased tins to set.ICJ1 TOILET POWDER, A Good.—A wholesome powder for the nursery may be made by mixing equal quantities of fullers' earth, starch, and rice flour. It may be scented with violets, or any other perfume, or used in its raw state. TOILET VINEGAR.—With one dram of essence of bergamot, one ounce of essence of rosemary, and one dram of marjoram, mix half a rpint of pale rum, then add half a pint of best white vinegar, and one pint of rose water. This vinegar will be found very refreshing. TOMATOES, How to Prepare.—Cut some good ripe tomatoes into slices, sprinkle them with finely pulverized white sugar, and add sufficient claret wine to cover them. Diluted vinegar is often used in place of the claret, but the wine imparts a rich and pleasant flavour, somewhat resembling the strawberry. TOMATOES, OR LOVE APPLES, To Grow.—These tender plants are raised from seed sown in hotbeds in March or April, and trans- planted in May in the open ground in a sunny situation, or trained against a south wall. They produce ripe fruit in the autumn. TOMATOES, To Pickle.—Cut into slices half a peck of green tomatoes ; then take half a gallon of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of whole cloves, two of allspice, one of salt, two small teaspoonfuls of mace, and the same amount of cayenne pepper. Boil the vinegar and spices for ten minutes, then put in the tomatoes, and boil all together for a quarter of an hour. When cold put into jars. TONGUE (THE), an Index of Health.—A yellow-coated tongue indicates a disordered liver ; a strawberry tongue discloses scarlet fever ; a fissured one, enteric fever; a brown or black tongue marks blood- poisoning ; a dryness of the tongue shows feverishness ; and a white-coated tongue, although it may occur in health, is generally a sign of a disordered stomach. When the tongue cleans gradually from the edge it is a favour- able sign. TONGUES, To Pickle.—Cut away the roots, leaving on only a little of the fat and kernel. Sprinkle with salt, and lay them to drain for twenty-four hours ; then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, and half as much saltpetre ; rub the tongues well with the pickle every day for a week, then add more salt, and rub them in like manner for another seven days ; or they may be simply laid in the brine and turned daily, but this method is not so expeditious. See also under Beef Tongues. TONIC, A Simple.—Steep an ounce of cascarilla bark, and the same weight of orange peel in a pint of proof spirits. Let it stand for a couple of weeks, then decant. Take a tablespoonful in a wineglass of water twice a day. TONIC.—Citrate of iron and quinine, one tablespoonful; water, a pint and a half. Mix. A wineglassful to be taken three times a day. TOOTHACHE, To Prevent.—Rub the teeth and gums well night and morning, and after dinner with a hard brush dipped in flour of sulphur. This is void of any unpleasant smell, and preserves the teeth. TOOTHACHE, To Relieve.—Dissolve a piece of camphor in oil of turpentine ; put a few drops on a piece of wool, and insert it in the hollow of the tooth. It generally gives almost instant relief. A small piece of stick caustic, about the size of a pin's head, inserted into the hollow of the tooth will give quick relief, and after two or three applications the toothache will wholly cease. Two or three drops of essential oil of cloves on a piece of lint, inserted in the hollow of the tooth will give relief, without injuring either the tooth or the gums. A small piece of solid opium will also take away the pain.Or, to seven drams of spirits of nitre, add two drams of alum, in powder. Mix, and apply to the teeth. The pain may often be relieved, by applying with a tooth-brush two or three drops of oil of juniper, after washing the teeth. TOOTH POWDER (CAMPHORATED).—Take two drams of camphor, moisten it with a small quantity of spirit of wine, and beat it to a very fine powder; add a pound of prepared chalk, and mix the whole well together. TOOTH POWDER (QUININE).—Mix together two drams of rose pink, one dram of carbonate of magnesia, six grains of quinine, and a pound and a quarter of prepared chalk. TOOTH POWDERS.—Equal parts of powdered rhatany root and prepared chalk, used with a firm brush twice a day, will not only keep the teeth white, but will preserve them and arrest decay. Or, powder finely six ounces of cuttlefish, one ounce of cream of tartar, and half an ounce of orris root. Mix, and add fifteen drops of tincture of myrrh. TORTOISE-SHELL, To Give Horn the Appearance of.—Steam and press the horn into the desired shape, and with a small brush apply the following mixture in imitation of tortoise-shell:—Mix with strong soap- lees equal parts of litharge and quicklime. When dry brush it otf, and repeat the application a second and, if necessary, a third time. The parts to which it is desired to impart a reddish-brown colour, should be covered with a mixture of whiting and the stain. TORTOISE-SHELL, To Manipulate.—Cut the plates of the shell to the desired size, then make them soft by steeping them in boiling water, and press them in a mould to the form required. TORTOISE-SHELL, To Unite.—Thoroughly clean the edges and apply a hot iron above and beneath the juncture ; put a wet cloth on top of the iron to prevent it from scorching the shell, and press the edges together until the union is effected. TRACING PAPER, To Make a Good.—Put into a pot two ounces of Canada balsam, and half a pint of spirits of turpentine. Mix by a gentle heat, and with a soft brush spread it thinly over one side of white tissue paper. Hang each sheet separately on a line till dry. TRACING UPON MUSLIN, &c.—The cheapest and most effectual substance for tracing designs upon muslin, &c., is rose-pink, which may be obtained from colour shops at about eight pence per pound. It has also the further advantage of being easily washed out. TRAINS, To Read with Comfort in.—Hold a card or slip of paper immediately below the lines being read. This relieves the eye from the disturbance caused by the motion of the carriage, and consequently preserves the sight from injury. TRANSFER PAPER.—Make a strong solution of each of the following articles, separately, in hot water:—Starch, three ounces ; gum- arabic, one ounce ; alum, half an ounce; then mix, and apply it with a brush while still warm, to one side of sheets of paper. When dry, a second and a third coating may be given. Press it smooth. In using, moisten the back of it, and evenly press it on the stone, when a reversed copy of the drawing, &c., will be obtained. TREES, To Prevent Cattle Barking.—Take two parts cowdung and one part lime, mix them into a thick paste with a little water, and brush it over the stem of the trees. TREES, To Prevent Insects Climbing.—Mix together equal quantities of grease and chloride of lime, and place it in an unbroken ring round the trunk of the tree. No insect will pass over it.193 TRIPE (BOILED).—Boil it up in milk, then thicken with flour and butter, and serve with onion sauce poured over, or if preferred boiled onions may be sent to table with it. TRIPE (FRIED).—Cut the tripe into pieces of equal size, boil them till tender, let them grow cold, then dip them in egg and bread crumbs, and fry to a nice pale brown. TRIPE, To Prepare.—In order to preserve the rich flavour of tripe, as well as its most nourishing properties, the fat should be allowed to remain. Hang the bellies in a cool place until the day they are required, then scrape off all the rough dirt with a blunt knife until the honeycomb is arrived at. Root out of these cells every particle of dirt with a dull-pointed knife, occasionally dipping the tripe into boiling water, of which there must be a plentiful supply. By this means it will be rendered perfectly clean and sweet without any artificial means. When it has been washed in several waters it will be ready for cooking. TULIPS, The Cultivation of.—Cut a trench about four feet wide, lay down a few inches of shingle, so as to insure drainage, and fill up the bed with a compost of fresh loam, leaf mould, river sand, and cows’ dung, all previously thoroughly mixed together. The bed should slope down gently from the centre, and the edges stand a couple of inches above the level of the ground. It needs renewing every year. Plant the bulbs at the beginning of October, and protect them from frost and heavy rain by canvas supported by hoops. Let them remain in the ground till the leaves have completely withered, then take up the bulbs, dry them thoroughly in the shade, and store them in an airy place till required for re-setting. With a proper amount of caution the bulbs may be left in the ground all the winter, but they are safer under cover, and the ground can then be utilized for other purposes. TURBOT, To Carve.—The fish having been sent to table with the under side upwards, insert the knife just above the head, and carry it lengthwise to the tail, cutting to the depth of the backbone; then place the knife in the centre of the fish, and cut it crosswise in slices, serving a piece of the fin with each slice. After the whole of the under side has been served, lift the backbone with the fork and separate a portion of the fish with the slice or knife. This side of the fish being firmer is preferred by some, but the under side is the more delicate in flavour. The finest cuts are those from the middle.. TURKEY POULT (ROAST).—This is not stuffed before it is cooked. If put before a clear fire it will be done in twenty minutes. Serve with bread sauce. TURKEY (ROAST), with Chestnuts.—Draw and truss the bird as in the ordinary way for roasting. Boil fifty chestnuts until tender, remove their shells, take off the skin, and mince them very fine. Next take the marrow from two marrow-bones, cut it up small, mix it with the minced chestnuts, and stuff the turkey with the mixture. Protect the breast from scorching by fixing thereon a piece of buttered paper, and baste frequently. When nearly done, remove the paper, baste the bird well with butter, sprinkle a little salt over it, and dredge with flour. When nicely browned dish up and serve with brown gravy separately. Time, about two hours. TURKEY, To Carve.—Cut slices from each side of the breast, lengthways down to the ribs, and, with thin portions of the stuffing, hand them to the ladies, serving the gentlemen with a slice from the breast, and one from the inner part of the thigh. The white portion of the wing is by many esteemed a great delicacy, and is often chosen in preference to the breast. Where sausages or forced-meat balls are placed on the dish they should be served to each person. 26194 TURKEY, To Choose.—A young turkey has smooth black legs, while those of an old one are rough and reddish. When fresh killed the eyes are full and bright, and the feet moist and supple. When stale the parts about the vent are of a greenish colour, and have a high smell. TURKEY, with Celery Sauce.—Truss the bird up nicely, wrap it in layers of bacon, then boil it in plain water with a little salt, butter, and lemon juice. Drain it, cover it with celery sauce, and serve at once. TURNIPS, To Grow.—All sorts of turnips are raised from seed sown broad-cast, and moderately thin, and raked in with careful regularity. For a first crop sow a few early Dutch any time in March; the early Snow- ball and other kinds for a general crop in J une, and again in August for winter use. The yellow varieties are also useful for late sowings. When the leaves have grown an inch or so broad, thin or hoe out to a distance of ten or twelve inches, so that the roots may have room to swell. They require a well-dug, highly manured soil. TURPENTINE, To Obtain.—Strip the bark off the pine tree in the spring, when the sap runs most freely, and having previously dug a hole in the earth round the tree, allow the sap to run into it ; then place a basket over an earthenware vessel, and ladle into it the matter which has accumulated in the hole. That portion which is thus filtered into the vessel is the common turpentine. ULCERATIONS OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT.— To two ounces of powdered alum add a quarter of a pound of best treacle or honey. Mix, and take half a teaspoonful two or three times a day. URIC GRAVEL.—Great relief may be obtained by taking a solu- tion of borax—two ounces to a quart of water. This diuretic freely dis- solves the calculose concretions in the kidneys and bladder and does not injure the constitution by long-continued use. USQUEBAUGH (an Irish Compound Liquor).—Crush in a mor- tar one ounce each of cloves, cinnamon, cardamoms, and nutmeg, and add one gallon of best brandy, one pound of stoned raisins, half an ounce of saffron, one pound of brown sugar candy, and the rind of a Seville orange. Shake them well each day for at least a fortnight, then fine the liquor for use. VAPOUR BATH, To Obtain a.—Fill a tub with hot water, place therein a cane-seated chair, and when the patient is seated, envelop him from head to foot with a blanket, also covering the tub with the same. VARICOSE VEINS, SCALDED LEGS, &c.—Add to com- mon pipeclay sufficient water to form a paste ; put it in a linen rag and bind it tightly round the limb, renewing it as soon as it becomes dry. VARNISH, A Brilliant Black.—Mix a small quantity of fine lampblack with shellac or French spirit varnish. VARNISH (BLACK), for Flexible Surfaces.—Take of asphaltum, in coarse powder, twenty-four ounces, macerate in a flask for a day or two, with frequent shaking, in twenty-one fluid ounces of benzine. Decant the clear solution, and mix it with that of one or two ounces of manilla elemi, and one ounce of balsam copaiba in sufficient benzine. More benzine may be added, if necessary, to get the proper consistence. VARNISH FOR CABINET-WORK.—A solution of gum- arabic in boiling alcohol, applied after the surface of the wood has been well saturated with olive oil, produces a very brilliant polish. VARNISH FOR ENGRAVINGS.—Stretch the engraving upon a wooden frame, then make a solution of isinglass in water, and cover the print with it; let it dry, and apply with a camel’s hair brush a mixture made of two ounces of spirits of turpentine and one ounce of Canada balsam.i95 Or use the following:—Best pale glue and white curd soap, of each half an ounce ; hot water, a quarter of a pint ; dissolve, then add a quarter ol an ounce of powdered alum. VARNISH FOR IRON.—To one gallon of benzole, add one pound of gum-asphaltum and a quarter of a pound of gum-benjamin ; let stand until dissolved, then add one pint of linseed oil. It may be made clear by leaving out the asphaltum, and any colour can then be mixed with it. VARNISH FOR MAPS, &c.—Mix equal parts of genuine Canada balsam and rectified oil of turpentine ; place in a bottle, in warm water, agitate well, set aside in a warm place, and in a week pour off the clear. The map, print, &c., should be given two coats of size before the rarnish is applied. Or, boil some clear parchment cuttings in water, in a glazed earthen vessel, till they produce a very clear size ; strain, and keep till wanted. Give the drawings or maps two coats of the size, brushing it over quickly so as not to disturb the colours. VARNISH FOR PAINT.—To half a gallon of oil of turpentine add one pound and three-quarters of pale rosin. Mix with the colours. Or the Varnish for Iron mentioned above may be used in the same way. . VARNISH FOR SHINY LEATHER.—Boil litharge with linseed oil, and colour with lampblack. This composition is also used for making enamelled leather. VARNISH (FURNITURE).—To half a pint of spirits of wine, add one ounce of gum-sandarach, half an ounce of shellac, a quarter of an ounce of mastic, a quarter of an ounce of gum-benjamin, and half an ounce of Venice turpentine. It may be coloured red with dragon's blood or Indian red, or yellow with saffron. Stand it in a warm place till the gums are dissolved, then strain off. VARNISH (JAPANNER’S COPAL).—Melt two pounds and a half of picked copal in ten ounces of linseed oil, then add three pounds of oil of turpentine, and mix the ingredients well together. VARNISHED PAINT, To Clean.—Steep spent tea leaves in water for half an hour ; strain, and use the liquid for varnished paint, oil- cloths, &c. It requires very little exertion to make the articles clean and bright by this means. It will not, however, answer for unvarnished paint. VARNISHING, To Prepare New Wood for.—Dissolve either gum-tragacanth or isinglass in water, and coat the wood therewith, so that all the pores are filled up before applying the varnish. Very thin glue may likewise be used for the same purpose. VEAL (BREAST OF), To Carve.—This consists of gristles and ribs, which should be separated by cutting the brisket, or soft bones, and afterwards dividing the ribs. Serve each guest with a small piece of the sweetbread, and with a portion of the gristles or ribs, which are dainty morsels. VEAL (FILLET OF), To Carve.—Cut into handsome, smooth, thin slices in the same manner as a round of beef is carved, helping to a portion of the stuffing, a little fat, and of the browned outside, the latter being considered a choice part. VEAL (GIGOT OF), To Carve.—This may be cut either in horizontal slices, or as a leg of mutton, commencing near to the broad end. VEAL, Knuckle of.—Saw the knuckle into three pieces and put them into a stew-pan with about two pounds of streaked bacon, three or four onions, a carrot, a couple of turnips, and six pepper-corns ; place over196 the fire, and when boiling add a little salt, skim well, and place at the comer to simmer gently for two hours ; take up, put the meat into a dish surrounded with the vegetables, and serve with parsley and butter ever. VEAL (KNUCKLE OF), To Carve.—A little practice is required before this joint can be carved neatly. Cut off a piece of the outside, so that good slices can be obtained. When the bones are reached divide them and cut from the opposite side. The fat is considered a delicacy, and so are the sinewy parts that lie around the joint. VEAL (LOIN OF), To Carve.—This joint may be cut into chops, dividing the meat into handsome slices, and serving the bone with one ; or it may be cut in long slices from end to end. A portion of fat and kidney should be served on each plate. VEAL (SHOULDER OF), To Carve.—Make a cross cut on the fore part of the joint, and serve slices from each side of the incision ; after- wards cut lengthways along the shoulder-blade. VEAL STUFFING.—Chop up some suet, with a little parsley and shallot ; rub a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and basil through a sieve, and add them to the suet with a few bread crumbs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a couple of eggs ; season with salt and pepper, and mix the whole together. VEGETABLE DYES.—A French chemist asserts that the colouring properties of any tree may be determined by the colour of its fruit. To extract the dye boil the bark with lime, when a coloured precipi- tate will be formed. VEGETABLE MARROWS (BOILED).—Pare the outside thinly, take out all the core, cut up into small pieces, an inch and a half in length, and for each three pounds of marrow add two pounds of sugar, a saltspoonful of ground ginger, and one large lemon cut into thin slices ; let them stand for twenty-four hours, and then boil, allowing three hours for each three pounds of vegetable. Or, peel the marrows, halve, and if very large quarter them, remove the seeds, put them into boiling water, and simmer gently until tender. Take them up with a slice, drain, and serve upon toast; or send to table accom- panied with melted butter. VEGETABLE MARROWS (FRIED).—Boil the marrows in the usual way till quite tender. Let them get cold, then cut them into slices, brush them over with egg, dip in finely-grated bread crumbs, and fry till they are of a light brown colour. Serve very hot. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP.—Peel and cut into large squares two pounds of vegetable marrow, put it into a saucepan with a large onion, a teaspoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and two ounces of butter ; cover closely and simmer well ; then add a pint and a half of water, and stew slowly until the vegetables pulp. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with sufficient milk to form a smooth paste, stir it into the soup, then add a pint more milk. Stir the soup until it boils, and afterwards let it simmer for ten minutes, stirring frequently. Serve with sippets of toast. The soup is sometimes rubbed through a sieve before it is thickened. VEGETABLE MARROW, To Grow.—Sow the seed during March and April, on a hot-bed; pot and harden off for planting out in May, on beds prepared with good stable manure. Water with liquid manure during dry, hot weather. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Slice three large cucumbers, six lettuces, and two or three onions. Put into a stew-pan half a pound of butter, and when melted add the vegetables, cover, and place over a slow fire for an hour and a quarter. Add as much stock as needed, bring it to a boil, then197 draw it back and let it simmer for an hour, and thicken with flour and butter, or a few spoonfuls of cream. It may be served as it is or coloured with spinach juice. VEILS (WHITE), To Wash.—Make a strong lather of curd soap and water, and simmer the veil therein for a quarter of an hour ; then squeeze out the soap, and rinse it first in clear water and afterwards in blue water ; pass it through a little thin starch or rice water, shake and flap it, and pin it on a clean cloth ; when dry, cover it with a cambric handkerchief and iron it on the wrong side. VELVET, To Restore the Pile of.—When the pile of velvet has become flattened by pressure it may be made to assume its original beauty by holding it over a basin of hot water, with the lining downwards. VENICE TURPENTINE.—To five parts of oil of turpentine add eight parts of common yellow or black rosin. Mix. VENISON (HAUNCH OF), To Carve.—Make an incision across the knuckle end, so as to let the gravy flow ; then cut thin slices the whole length of the haunch. The fat, which is highly prized, is found chiefly on the left side. The choicest part of the joint is on the side where the fat is found, and is known as the Alderman’s Walk. Buck venison is in greatest perfection from Midsummer to Michaelmas, and doe venison from November to January. VENISON, To Choose.—When young, the fat is clear, bright, and of considerable thickness, and the cleft part is close and smooth. If the cleft is wide and tough the buck is an old one. Its sweetness may be ascertained by running an iron skewer into the haunch and then smelling it. VENTILATION. — It is absolutely necessary to distinguish between ventilation and draught. The former is essential to health, whilst the latter is often the immediate cause of sickness and death. To obtain the access of fresh air to a room without a treacherous current of wind, cut two pieces of wood the length of the window sash, with a depth of three or four inches and about two inches thick ; open the window from the top, insert one of the pieces of wood lengthways, and make it secure by closing the sash upon it, then open the bottom portion of the window and insert the other piece of wood lengthways, and close the sash upon this also. By this means the air will enter freely yet gently from the centre. VERDIGRIS, To Procure.—Immerse some copper plates in strong vinegar and let them stand uncovered until they are converted into a bluish-green powder, then dissolve the powder in acetic acid and crystallise it. VERMILION (ARTIFICIAL), To Make.—Mix ground mineral cinnabar with aqua-vitae and urine, then dry it, and again grind it up. VINEGAR.—To one gallon of water add one pound of moist sugar, and boil the same for ten minutes, skimming it as long as there is occasion. Then pour it into a large sweet tub and when it is lukewarm work it with two spoonfuls of yeast for twenty-four hours, and set it before the fire or in the heat of the sun. When ready, pour it into stone bottles and cork securely. The following old-fashioned way may also be reverted to :—Add half a pound of moist sugar to half a pound of treacle, two spoonfuls of yeast, and one gallon of milk-warm water. Place a vinegar plant (which is a sort of incrustation which forms in beer barrels or in vinegar which has been allowed to stand still for some time) on the top of this mixture, tie it down closely with brown paper, and keep it in the dark for a month, when it will be ready for use. VINEGAR (AROMATIC).—Strong vinegar, six ounces; cam- phor, half a dram ; spirits of wine, sufficient to dissolve the camphor.198 Or, acetate of potass, one dram ; essence of lemon, three drops ; oil of vitriol, twenty drops. VINEGAR (CHILI).—Infuse one ounce of cayenne pepper and a dozen cloves in a quart of vinegar. VINEGAR (COWSLIP).—To two gallons of lukewarm watet add three pounds of brown sugar and a quarter of a peck of cowslips, flowers and stalks together ; put the whole into a cask with two dessert- spoonfuls of yeast; lay a piece of slate over the bunghole, and set it in a warm place till the liquid turns sour, when the bung may be fastened down. Keep in a warm place, and in six months it will be ready for use. A dram of gelatine or isinglass will make it clear sooner. This vinegar will keep pickles nice and crisp. VINEGAR (GARLIC).—Put into a jar some finely-chopped garlic, pour upon it some strong vinegar, cover it over, and let it infuse for eight or ten days, shaking it frequently meanwhile. VINEGAR (GOOSEBERRY).—Crush a quart of ripe goose- berries, stir them into three quarts of water ; let stand for two days, then strain, add a pound and a half of sugar, put it into a cask, and let it remain for ten months, when it will be ready for use. VINEGAR (HORSE-RADISH).—Scraped horse-radish, an ounce and a half ; minced shallot, half an ounce ; cayenne pepper, half a dram ; vinegar, one pint. Let the whole be together for seven or eight days, then strain off for use. VINEGAR OF FOUR THIEVES.—Take of lavender, rose- mary, rue, sage and mint of each a handful, and white wine vinegar one gallon ; digest in a water-bath for eight days. The above takes its name from four persons who during a plague in Marseilles attended the sick for the sole purpose of robbery. They attributed their freedom from the disease to the use of this vinegar, and one of them escaped capital punish- ment by making the remedy known. VINEGAR (RASPBERRY).—Pour half a pint of vinegar over four pounds of raspberries, place in an earthen jar and cover securely, so that no air can enter ; set it in the sun for a couple of days ; then pour it into a flannel bag, and let the juice run through without pressure. To every pound of juice add a pound of loaf sugar ; boil for a quarter of an hour, or till the scum rises, then put it into small bottles and cork it securely. VINEGAR, To Flavour.—Infuse parsley, mustard, cress, mint, scraped horse-radish, or celery root, &c., in the best vinegar, before the fire, for forty-eight hours, and if the flavour is not then sufficiently strong, infuse more root or seed, as the case may be. VINES, The Treatment of.—Although grapes may be grown in the open when indulged with a warm situation, they flourish best when sheltered under glass. They may be pruned at the end of September. The method known as spur-pruning is generally employed. This consists in carrying up one leading shoot to the whole extent of the wall, either at one, two, or three years’ growth, leaving spurs or lateral shoots to develop themselves at regular intervals on the stem. The subsequent pruning is confined to cutting each of the spurs back to the last eye at the base of the shoot. VIOLET COLOUR, To Restore.—Brush the injured portion of the fabric with tincture of iodine, then after a few seconds well saturate the spot with a solution of hyposulphite of soda, and dry gradually. This will perfectly restore the colour removed from silk, &c., by acid juices. VIOLET (DOG’S-TOOTH).—Thisexceedinglypretty littleplant, with its pinkish flowers and handsome mottled leaves, deserves to be very generally cultivated. It simply requires to be set in a light soil, and to bei99 taken up every two or three years for division of the off-sets. The American species, bearing a yellow flower, has a tendency to run to off-sets instead of to flower. This is best obviated by planting in light peat soil, such as is used for rhododendrons. It requires the same culture as the pink species. VIOLETS, To Cultivate. — Continual crops of these hibernal flowers may be obtained by planting them in frames on soil composed of calcareous earth, leaf-mould and alluvial loam. They are plentifully in- creased by runners and root-division. VITRIOL, Burns from.—See Burns from Vitriol or other Acids. VOICE, To Improve the.—A hoarse, husky voice maybe greatly improved by taking twice a day five or six drops of nitric acid in a glassful of sugared water. If from constant use the acid loses its efficacy, increase the dose to ten drops. VOICE (WEAK), To Strengthen a.—To eight ounces of water add one dram ot tincture of cayenne. Gargle the throat frequently, especially before speaking or singing. The following is also good:—Beeswax, two drams; copaiba balsam, three drams ; powdered liquorice root, four drams. Melt the balsam with the wax in an earthen pipkin, remove it from the fire and mix in the powder. Make pills of three grains each. Two of the pills to be taken occasionally, three or four times a day. VOLATILE LINIMENT, for Painful Swellings.—Olive oil, one ounce and a half; spirits of hartshorn, one ounce ; cayenne pepper, two drams ; laudanum, two drams ; brandy, two tablespoonfuls; and salt, one tablespoonful. Shake well together ; rub it into the affected part, and afterwards dip a rag in it and apply. VOLATILE SOAP, for Removing Paint, Grease, &c.—Spirits of hartshorn, four tablespoonfuls ; alcohol, four tablespoonfuls; salt, one tablespoonful. Shake the whole well together in a bottle and apply with a sponge or a brush. VULCANITE, To Restore.—To a teacupful of sweet oil add two tablespoonfuls of black ink. Let the vulcanite steep in the mixture for a week, stirring the liquid every day ; then remove it and rub it well with the palm of the hand till a good polish is obtained. WAFERS.—Take flour, white of eggs, isinglass, and a little yeast ; beat them well together ; make the batter thin with gum-water, spread it on iron plates, and dry in an oven, then cut them out. They may be coloured by adding brazil or vermilion for red, indigo for blue, or saffron or gamboge for yellow. WALL-PAPERS, To Remove Grease from.—Mix a little pipe- clay with sufficient water to reduce it to the consistence of cream, spread it over the spot and allow it to remain on for twenty-four hours, then remove it with a knife, and carefully brush and dust the paper-hangings. WALNUTS (PICKLED).—The best timeintheyear for pickling walnuts is the first week in July. If left beyond the middle of that month they are liable to become too hard and woody. First steep them in brine for a week, then boil them very gently in a kettle of brine ; strain, and set in an airy position for a day or two, until they turn black, and afterwards add vinegar, in each quart of which has been steeped one ounce each of shallots, ginger, black pepper, mustard-seed, and salt. WARTS AND CORNS, Cure for.—Burn the bark of the willow- tree to ashes and apply to the part. It will remove excrescences from any part of the human frame. The easiest way, however, of getting rid of warts is to pare off the200 thickened skin which covers them, shaving it away till you come to the surface of the skin and till blood oozes from two or three parts, then rub the place thoroughly with lunar caustic. One application will generally be effectual, if not, cut off the black spot occasioned by the caustic and apply it again, or touch the spot with acetic acid. Another way :—Steep a very small piece of beef in vinegar for twenty- four hours ; fasten it over the wart with sticking plaster. Keep it on night and day for a week, when, upon removing the plaster, it will be found adhering to it. This application is said to remove the most desperate wart or corn, and leaves no scar. See also Corns, Simple Remedy for. WASHING FLUID, for Coarse Articles.—Boil for two hours in six quarts of water, half a pound of slacked lime and a pound of soda. Let it settle, then pour off the clear liquor for use. This fluid will be found very effectual in bringing the floors of rooms to a good colour. WASHING POWDERS.—The basis of all washing powders is the soda-ash of commerce, blended in variable proportions with Scotch soda. The best consist chiefly of the former article. Reduce the alkaline matter to a coarse powder, mix it with liquid size or with a decoction of linseed or Irish moss. Dry it, again crush it to a powder, and make it into packets as quickly as possible. An excellent washing powder can also be made by adding to common soda sufficient quicklime to make it partly caustic. WASP-GRUBS, To Preserve.—Anglers may preserve for a long time these tempting delicacies for trout and basking chub by baking the comb in a slow oven or before a fire and then packing it in dry straw. WASPS AND BEES, Stings from.—Mix together a little spirits of hartshorn with double its quantity of olive oil, and apply to the part affected. Another very simple remedy, which is asserted to be unfailing, is to rub with an onion the part of the flesh which is stung. The application of either oil of tartar or a solution of potash will give instant ease. Perhaps the most convenient thing will be to mix a little oil with common soda. This will allay both the pain and the irritation. WATER LILY, To Propagate.—This plant is not only handsome and graceful, but is extremely useful in ponds where gold fish or tortoises are kept. There are white, yellow, red, and blue varieties. The two latter, which come from China, rarely survive our winter, while the yellow is apt to increase to a troublesome extent. To propagate the plant, select a good-sized thick rhizoma at the end of summer, tie a stone to it, and sink it in the artificial pond, which must, of course, possess a muddy bottom. WATER PIPES, To Prevent the Freezing of.—Pipes which are exposed to the weather soon become frozen in cold seasons, and are liable to burst through the expansion of the water as it is changed into ice. This risk, however, is greatly lessened by turning on the tap a little way, so that the water circulates within the pipe ; for not only is moving water less likely to become frozen than that which is stagnant, but instead of the whole body of water expanding in an outward direction, by the means here suggested the running water keeps a channel open for some time, which has gradually to be filled up before the expansion can possibly take an outer course. WATERPROOF BLACKING FOR BELTS, &c.—Melt together, by a hot bath, six ounces of beeswax and two ounces of mutton suet, then add six ounces of powdered sugar candy, two ounces of soft •oap, two ounces and a half of lampblack, and half an ounce of finely201 powdered indigo. When all are well incorporated, stir in a quarter of a pint of oil of turpentine. Apply the polish thinly, and keep it well corked. WATERPROOF CARDBOARD, To Manufacture.—Dissolve half a pound of alum and a quarter of a pound of white Castile soap in two quarts of water ; next dissolve separately a quarter of a pound of glue and two ounces of gum-arabic in two quarts of water ; then mix the solu- tions, and add, slightly warm, to the cardboard pulp. WATERPROOF CLOAKS, &c.—Tweeds may be rendered waterproof by the following simple process :—Dissolve half a pound of alum in two quarts of boiling water, then add two gallons of cold water. Soak the articles in the liquor for twenty-four hours. Now in another tub dissolve a quarter of a pound of sugar of lead in two quarts of boiling water, and add two gallons of cold water. Remove the articles from the first tub and allow them to drain ; then immerse them for six hours in the solution of lead. Wring them gently, and dry in the shade. WATERPROOFING FOR BOOTS AND SHOES.—Mix together in a saucepan over the fire two parts of tallow and one part of rosin ; warm the boots and apply the hot mixture with a painter’s brush till they will not absorb any more. If well polished before applying the waterproofing they will take the polish afterwards. WATERPROOFING FOR CLOTH (Chinese Method).— Dissolve an ounce of white wax in a quart of spirits of turpentine, immerse the cloth in the solution, and then suspend it in the air till perfectly dry. The following method will render cloth almost impervious to water, and at the same time allow the air to pass through it:—Imbue the cloth on the wrong side with a solution of isinglass, alum, and soap, by means ot a brush. When dry, brush on the wrong side against the grain, and then go over with a brush dipped in water. WATERPROOFING FOR LEATHER.—Boiled oil, half a pint ; mutton suet, half a pound ; beeswax, six ounces; rosin, quarter of a pound. Melt the whole together and apply while hot. Gutta percha and indiarubber dissolved in wood naphtha answers the same purpose. See also Waterproofing for Boots and Shoes. WATERPROOF PACKING PAPER, To Prepare.—Dissolve one ounce of gum-nitric and six ounces of glue in a quart of water. In a second quart of water dissolve one pound of white soap. Mix the two solutions, and after heating them soak the paper in the liquid. Hang each sheet separately on a line, and when dry smooth in a press. WATERPROOF POLISH FOR LEATHER.— Dissolve two pounds of shellac in one gallon of methylated alcohol; add six ounces of camphor, and shake it well occasionally for a week ; then stir into it a quarter of a pound of lampblack and two ounces of finely- powdered Prussian blue. Shake it up, strain through a piece of muslin, and put it into a bottle, making it air-tight. WATER, To Detect Impurities in.—The presence of animal or vegetable impurities in water may readily be detected by adding to a cup- ful of the liquid a few drops of sulphuric acid, when, if the water is con- taminated, it becomes black. If the presence of lead be suspected, add one drop of sulphide of ammonia to a wineglassful of the water and stir it with a goose-quill or glass rod ; if the water is impure it will become discoloured. WATER, To Purify.—An ounce of powdered alum added to a hogshead of putrid water will purify it in the course of a few hours, and render it fit for use. £7202 WATER, To Soften.—Hard water may be softened by the addition of a little borax. It is wholesome for cooking purposes, and greatly improves the water used for washing clothes, &c. It may also be softened by simply boiling it and letting it stand exposed to atmospheric influences. WATERY BRAIN.—The first symptoms of this disease are a heavy, leaden look about the eyes, a dislike to the light, heaviness, and restless sleep, during which the child starts and screams ; the head enlarges, especially the forehead ; this is followed by convulsions and stupor, and then by death. To remedy the evil put a mustard poultice to the nape of the neck, let it remain on for ten minutes, and repeat it every third day. Keep the body cool by means of opening medicine, and the mind free from all anxiety. Put all lessons and books away, and send the child into the fresh air as much as possible. WAX FOR MODELLING.—To one pound of wax add half a pound of scamrnony and a little turpentine ; melt the whole together with oil of olives, putting more or less oil according to the hardness or softness which it is desired to impart to the wax. A flesh colour may be given to the composition by the addition of vermilion. WAX, To Whiten.—Put the wax into a saucepan of water and let it melt. Then, having previously prepared a thin board of hard wood, dip it first in warm water to prevent the wax sticking to it, and afterwards into the pot of wax and water. Upon its removal it will be coated with a thin layer of wax ; loosen this with a knife and slide it off. Dip as before, and so on until all the wax is removed from the water. Spread these thin sheets upon a white cloth, and stand them in the heat of the sun to bleach ; afterwards melt, and form into cakes. Another method is the followingMelt the wax in hot water and press it through a strainer of fine linen ; pour it into a shallow mould, and when it has hardened expose it to the air, sprinkling it frequently with water, and turning it from time to time until it becomes quite white. WEANING BRASH.—With this complaint the infant is griped, purged, and sometimes sick ; the stools are slimy and green coloured. If taken in time it is easy to cure, but if allowed to go on it becomes difficult to subdue, and the child is in danger of wasting away. Give a teaspoonful of castor oil in a little warm milk, and when this has worked give a warm bath for ten minutes, and wrap the child in flannel. Also give three or four drops of sal volatile in a tablespoonful of water three times a day, and if the purging becomes very watery give a teaspoonful of pure vinegar twice a day. Keep the child to the breast until health is restored, then feed on milk and rice boiled in water. WEDDING CAKES.—Blanch one pound of sweet almonds and cut them lengthwise into very thin slices, add one pound of citron, one pound of candied lemon, and one pound of candied orange. Now take four pounds of fresh butter, work it with the hand into a cream, and add two pounds of loaf sugar ; beat the two briskly together for a quarter of an hour ; whisk the whites of thirty-two fresh eggs to a very strong froth, and add it to the butter and sugar ; then beat the yolks for half an hour and mix with the other ingredients. Next take four pounds of best white flour, a quarter of a pound of mace pounded and sifted fine, and the same quantity of nutmegs. Mix the whole well together, gradually adding half a pint of brandy, four pounds of currants, and the almonds. Place in a well-buttered hoop or tin successive layers of cake and sweetmeats, and put into a nice hot oven. After it has risen and acquired a good colour cover it with greased paper, and bake for about three hours. WEDDING CAKES, Almond Paste for.—Pulp one pound of Jordon almonos very fine with rose water, then whisk the whites of three203 fine eggs to a strong froth. Mix the whole lightly together, gradually adding one pound of powdered loaf sugar. When the cake is baked sufficiently take it out of the oven, lay on the paste, and put it back into the oven to brown. WEDDING CAKES, Saccharine Icing for.—Well mix two pounds of double refined sugar with two ounces of fine starch, and sift it through a gauze sieve ; now beat the whites of five eggs for half an hour, adding very gradually the mixture of sugar and starch. After the whole is well mixed, beat it for half an hour longer. As soon as the almond paste is brown remove the cake from the oven and at once pour on to it the sugar icing, spreading it evenly with a knife. It will harden by the time the cake is cold. WELSH RABBIT.—Toast a slice of bread, then put into a small frying-pan a good slice of cheese and a tablespoonful of old ale, mix them well together and spread upon the toast. Or the cheese may be toasted on one side only and laid upon the bread, and then browned with a salamander. WHISKY CORDIAL.—Strip from their stalks one pound of ripe white currants and put them into a large jug; add the rind of two lemons, a quarter of an ounce of grated ginger, and a quart of whisky ; cover the jug closely, and let it remain covered for twenty-four hours. Strain through a hair sieve, add one pound of lump sugar, and let it stand for twelve hours longer ; then bottle, and cork well. WHISKY TODDY, An Improved Method of Making.—Take a large tumbler holding quite half a pint, and put a dessert-spoonful of ale or stout, with two slices of lemon, in the same ; then fill a good-sized wineglass with whisky ; place the wineglass containing the whisky up- right in the centre of the tumbler, and pour boiling water into the wine- glass, thereby causing the liquid to run over into the tumbler, until it is nearly full; throw away the contents of the wineglass, and add sugar to taste. This process will make the toddy drink much more mild and palatable than the usual way. WHITE (LIQUID), for Theatrical Use.—Put four ounces of oxide of bismuth into a pint of rose-water, and stir until the mixture is complete. % WHITES.—Keep the body warm with light clothing, and take moderate exercise in the open air. The following as medicine :—Sulphate of magnesia, six drams; sulphate of iron, ten grains ; diluted sulphuric acid, forty drops ; compound tincture of cardamoms, half an ounce ; water, seven ounces. A fourth part night and morning. A syringeful of the following injection to be used twice a day :—Decoction of oak bark, one pint ; dried alum, half an ounce. WHITE SWELLINGS, Counter-Irritant in.—Tartar emetic, twenty grains ; white sugar, ten grains ; lard, one dram and a half. Mix. Spread it upon linen, and apply. WHITEWASH FOR ROOFS OF HOUSES.—Mix Buxton lime with whiting, size, or thin glue, and a little linseed oil. This will stand a good deal of rain before it is washed off the slates or tiles. WHITINGS (BROILED).—Gut, wash, and dry the fish, steep them in vinegar for a few moments and dust them with flour ; put them on to a hot gridiron which has been rubbed all over with butter, and turn them frequently until done. Serve with cockle sauce or melted butter. The dish may be garnished with red cabbage or beetroot. WIGGS.—To half a pint of warm milk add three-quarters of a pound of flour, mix in three spoonfuls of yeast, cover up, and set before the fire to rise ; then work into it a quarter of a pound of sugar and a204 quarter of a pound of butter ; make into cakes with as little flour as pos- sible and a few carraway seeds, and bake in a quick oven. WILL, A Correct Form of a.—This is the last Will and Testament of me, A. B., of , in the county of , farmer (or as the case may be). I give, devise, and bequeath all the real and personal estate of which I shall be possessed or entitled at the time of my decease unto C. D. (naming the person in full) ; and I appoint the said G. D. sole executor of this my Will, and revoke all previous Wills by me at any time heretofore made. In witness whereof I hereunto set my hand this day of in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and . (Signature) A. B. Signed by the said testator, in our presence, who in his presence, and in the presence of each other, at the same time, sub- scribe our names as witnesses. E. F. (trade or profession^. G. H. (trade or profession). WILL, How to Make a.—The aid of a lawyer in making a Will is always desirable, but is not essential. Should the estate consist of real as well as personal property, i.e., of lands and houses as well as money and goods, or if the Will is to contain many provisions, a lawyer should always be employed. In cases where a lawyer is not employed, a person bent on making his own Will must not consider it as a light matter to be got rid of in a few minutes like writing a letter, but one requiring the most serious attention. It is only after one is dead and cannot explain his meaning that his Will can be open to dispute. It is the more necessary, therefore, to say what is meant in language of the utmost clearness, avoiding the use of any word or expression that seems to admit of another meaning than the one intended. It is better to be prolix, than to leave the smallest room for doubt or uncertainty, although the same name or work be re- peated over and over again. Sounding phrases and carefully rounded periods are entirely out of place. Avoid the use of what may be thought “legal terms " when the same thing may be expressed in plain language. If in writing the Will a mistake be made, it is better to re-write the whole. Before a Will is executed, that is, signed by the testator in presence of two witnesses, an alteration may be made by striking through the words with a pen, but opposite to such alteration the testator or witnesses should write their names or place their initials. Never scratch out a word with a knife or other instrument, and no alteration of any kind whatever must be made after the Will is executed. If the testator afterwards wishes to change the disposition of his estate, it is better to make a new Will revoking the old one, or to add a codicil to the first, which must be duly executed and attested in the same manner as the original Will. A Will should, if possible, be written on one side of a single sheet of paper. It is, of couse, impossible to give a form of Will which will suit under all circumstances, but a correct form of a simple Will is given above. WIND IN THE STOMACH, To Relieve Children Suffering from.—If the child be old enough to suck it down, give a couple of drops of strong peppermint water on a little sugar. For younger children, boil a piece of ginger or a few carraway seeds with their food. WINE (BLACKBERRY).—Gather a quantity of ripe black- berries, press out the juice, and let it stand, covered with a cloth, for thirty- six hours to ferment ; remove all the scum, and to each gallon of juice add three pounds of sugar and one quart of water ; let it stand uncovered for four-and-twenty hours ; strain ; put it into barrels, and after it has stood thus for six months bottle it off, using sound corks. The wine will improve with age.205 WINE (BLACK CURRANT).—Boil nine gallons of water with four pounds of loaf sugar; skim, and let it stand for forty-eight hours ; pour it on to six gallons of ripe currants ; let it stand two days longer ; strain through a bag ; let it stand three or four weeks to settle, then bottle off. WINE (CAMPHORATED SPIRITS OF), To Make.—Dis- solve two ounces of camphor in one pint of alcohol. Used as an outward application for paralytic numbness, rhuematic pains, &c. WINE (CHERRY).—Press the juice out of a quantity of cherries, and to each gallon of juice add a pint of black currant juice and two pounds of crushed white sugar. Put it into a cask, and when fermentation ceases, stop it close. Let it stand for four months, then bottle off. It will be ready for use in six weeks. WINE (COWSLIP).—Boil for half an hour three pounds of white sugar in a gallon of water, removing the scum as it rises. Pour it into a pan to cool, adding the rind of a lemon. 'When cold, add two quarts of cowslip flowers to the liquor, with the juice of the lemon ; stir it every two hours for a couple of days ; pour the strained liquor into a barrel ; let it stand for a month, then bottle it off, placing a piece of lump sugar in each bottle. If approved of a little brandy may be added. WINE (DAMSON AND SLOE).—To each gallon of sound ripe fruit add the same measure of boiling water, cover, and set it in a warm room for five or six days, stirring it three or four times a day ; then strain the liquor, and to each gallon of wine add four and a half pounds of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, pour it into a cask, and when fermentation has ceased bung it up, and let it remain for six or eight months, when it may be bottled off. WINE (ELDERBERRY).—Elderberries, ten gallons; water, ten gallons ; sugar, forty-five pounds ; red tartar, eight ounces ; sliced ginger root, four ounces ; bitter almonds, three ounces; brandy, one gallon. Proceed in exactly the same manner as in making currant wine. The ginger root and bitter almonds may be allowed to infuse in the liquor while it is fermenting, and then removed. WINE (GINGER).—Boil for one hour in six gallons of water twelve pounds of loaf sugar, and half a pound of powdered ginger. Whisk the whites of six good-sized eggs and add to the liquor. When cold, put it into a a barrel with a cupful of yeast, five or six sliced lemons, and a pint of brandy. After it has stood three days to ferment, put in the bung for a week or ten days, then bottle off. WINE (GOOSEBERRY).—To every gallon of water allow six pounds of green gooseberries and three pounds of lump sugar. This wine should be prepared from unripe gooseberries, in order to avoid the flavour which the fruit would give to the wine when in a mature state. Its brisk- ness depends more upon the time of bottling than upon the unripe state of the fruit; for effervescing wine can be made from fruit that is ripe as well as that w'hich is unripe. The fruit should be selected when it has nearly attained its full growth, and consequently before it shows any tendency to ripen. Any bruised or decayed berries and those that are very small should be rejected. The blossom and stalk ends should be removed, and the fruit well bruised in a tub or pan in such quantities as to insure each berry being broken without crushing the seeds. Pour the water (which should be warm) on the fruit. Squeeze and stir it with the hand until all the pulp is removed from the skin and seeds and cover the whole closely for twenty-four hours, after which strain it through a coarse bag and press it with as much force as can be conveniently applied, in order to extract the whole of the juice and liquor the fruit may contain. To every forty or fifty pounds of fruit206 one gallon more of hot water may be passed through the husks, in order to obtain any soluble matter that may remain, and be again pressed. The juice should be put into a tub or pan of sufficient size to contain all of it and the sugar added to it. Let it be well stirred until the sugar is dissolved, and then place the pan in a warm situation. Keep it closely covered, and let it ferment for a day or two. It must then be drawn off into clean casks, placed a little on one side for the scum that arises to be thrown out, and the casks kept tilled with the remaining “ must,” which should be reserved for that purpose. When the active fermentation has ceased the casks should be plugged upright, again filled, if necessary, the bungs be put in loosely, and, after a few days, when the fermentation is a little more languid, which may be known by the hissing noise ceasing, the bungs should be driven in tight and a spile hole made to give vent, if necessary. About November or December, on a clear fine day, the wine should be racked from its lees into clean casks, which may be rinsed with brandy. After a month it should be examined to see if it is sufficiently clear for bottling ; if not, it must be fined with isinglass, which may be dissolved in some of the wine. An ounce will be sufficient for nine gallons. WINE (GRAPE).—Gather the fully-ripe fruit of the sweet-wateT grape, free it from stalks, bruise it thoroughly, but be careful not to crush the stones, and then express the juice, to every gallon of which add two pounds of sugar. Set the liquor in a warm room for a day or so, until fermentation begins, then put it into casks, leaving the bung-hole open. As fermentation proceeds and the scum is thrown off, keep the cask filled up with juice reserved for that purpose. When the fermentation subsides, clear away all impurities, fill the cask and drive in the bung. Leave the vent-peg out for a few days, then put it in lightly, and loosen it occasionally to let off the gas. When the hissing noise ceases to be heard at the bung- hole, drive the vent-peg in tightly, and leave the wine on the lees throughout the winter, or longer, as it improves by keeping. WINE (MEAD).—Water, four gallons and a half; white currants, three pints. Ferment, and add honey, eight pounds ; white tartar, three- quarters of an ounce ; pale brandy, one quart. WINE (MORELLA).—Pick fifteen pounds of Morelia cherries, bruise them sufficiently to break the stones, press out the juice, and mix with a gallon and a half of sherry wine, a pound and a half of sugar, and a gallon of warm water. Powder a quarter of an ounce each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace, place them in separate bags, hang them in the cask with the wine and put in the bung. In a few weeks the wine will be fit for use. The addition of a little pale brandy improves it. WINE (MOUNTAIN).—Remove the stalks from five pounds of Malaga raisins, chop the fruit small, and add a gallon of cold water. Infuse for two weeks, stirring occasionally ; express the juice ; fume a large botile with brimstone and pour in the liquor. When it has ceased to ferment add half a pint of pale brandy, and cork tightly. WINE (MULLED).—Boil some spice in water until the flavour is extracted sufficient to suit the taste, and to each pint of wine add one large cupful of the spiced water ; sweeten it with sugar, then bring the whole to boiling point and serve with biscuits or strips of crisp dry toast. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port and claret are usually selected for the purpose. The latter requires a very large proportion of sugar. The spices generally used are cloves, grated nutmeg, and cinnamon or mace. WINE (ORANGE).—To five gallons of water add fourteen pounds of loaf sugar and the whites of three eggs. Boil for a quarter of an hour, removing the scum as it rises. When cold add the juice of five dozen Seville oranges and four or five lemons with two spoonfuls of yeast.207 Ferment four days, then put it into a cask. It will be ready for bottling in about six weeks. WINE (PALERMO).—Boil a gallon of water, let it stand till cool, then put to it four pounds of chopped Malaga raisins ; let it stand for about ten days, stirring occasionally, then strain the liquor, and add a little yeast. Stop close for three months, add a pint of brandy, and pour into bottles. WINE (PARSNIP).—Boil sixteen pounds of sliced parsnips in five gallons of water until they are quite soft ; squeeze the liquor from them, pass it through a sieve, and to each gallon of the liquor add three pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole for three-quarters of an hour ; let it get nearly cold, then add a little yeast on toast. Leave it in a tub for ten days, stirring it well each day ; then put it into a cask, which must be filled up every day as it works over. When fermentation has ceased, put in the bung, and stand it by for a year. WINE (PEACH).—Water, four and a half gallons; refined sugar, six pounds and a half; honey, one pound and a half; finely-powdered white tartar, one ounce. Ferment the above, add half a gallon of brandy, and put it into the vat. On the following day, take about twenty peaches, pound the kernels with the fruit and add the pulp to the other ingredients in the vat. When fermentation wholly ceases, bung up. WINE (QUINCE).—Pare and core the fruit, express the juice, to every gallon of which add two pounds and a half of sugar ; stir till dis- solved ; pour it into a cask, leaving the bung out till fermentation ceases, then stop it close ; let it stand for six months, then bottle off. As it ripens in age it improves in its flavour. WINE (RAISIN).—Chop the raisins, and to every pound add a quart of water which has been boiled and cooled. Stir frequently for a month, then take out the fruit and pour the liquor into a cask, stop it closely, and let it remain for four or five weeks ; strain it into another cask, and to every four and a half gallons add three pounds of sugar, and the juice of six Seville oranges ; infuse the rinds of the oranges in a quart of brandy, and add the spirit to the wine. Let the whole remain in the cask for three months, then bottle. It will be in prime condition in twelve months. WINE (RASPBERRY).—To each gallon of fruit put a gallon of water ; stir well together so as to bruise the raspberries, and let stand for two days ; strain, and to each gallon of the liquor add three pounds of white sugar ; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, let stand for three months, then bottle, putting a tablespoonful of brandy into each bottle. WINE (RED CURRANT).—Put twenty pounds of red currants and four quarts of raspberries into a tub or vat. Mash them well, and add fifteen quarts of cold water ; next day strain the liquor, and return it to the tub, with twenty pounds of loaf sugar. Let it stand three days, remove the scum, and put the liquor into a barrel; place the bung in very lightly, and about a week afterwards add a quart of the best pale brandy, and stop it up. This will make six gallons of good wine. WINE (RHENISH).—Press the juice from apples, and to every gallon add two pounds of loaf sugar; boil till no more scum rises, then strain through a sieve and let it cool. Add yeast, and let it remain in the tub till the head begins to flatten ; skim, draw it off clear, and put it into a cask. Let stand for twelve months, rack it off, and fine with isinglass, adding half a pint of brandy to each gallon of wine. WINE (RHUBARB).—When the green stalks or stems have arrived at their full size—which is usually about the end of May—pluck them from the plant, cut away the leaves, and reduce the stalks to a pulp,208 cither in a mortar or by other convenient means ; put the pulp into a tub, and to every five pounds of the stalks add one gallon of cold spring water ; let it infuse for three days, stirring it three or four times each day ; then press the pulp and strain off the liquor. Put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon add three pounds of crushed white sugar, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Let it rest for five or six days, and when the crust or head which forms begins to crack, skim it off, or draw the liquor from it. Put the wine into a cask, but do not stop it down. If it should begin to ferment rack it into another cask, and a fortnight afterwards stop down the cask, and let it remain till the beginning of the following March, then rack it and again stop down the cask. If from slight fermentation the wine has lost any of its sweetness, add enough loaf sugar to restore it, and stop down, taking care that the cask is full. By the middle of May it will be fit to bottle. It will improve by keeping another year in bottle. A second lot may be got from the plants about the latter end of August. WINE, To Remove Flatness from.—To each hogshead of wine add three pounds of honey, or bruised sultana raisins, and four quarts of good brandy. Let it stand for a fortnight, when it will be ready for use, unless the weather be very cold. If a tablespoonful or so of yeast be added to the wine, and the cask removed to a warmer situation, it will become palatable in a shorter period. The addition of a little new brisk wine of the same kind will also restore it to its proper flavour. WINES (HOME-MADE), To Fortify.—Home-made wines are usually fortified by means of French brandy of the best quality, but in the case of cowslip or other delicately-flavoured sorts, rectified spirits of wine (56 over proof) would be found more suitable, as it does not interfere with the flavour of the wine ; it must not, however, be added till fermentation has entirely ceased. An ounce and a half to each bottle, or one gallon to eighteen gallons of wine, is the quantity generally used. WINE (TURNIP).—Pare and slice some turnips, press out the juice, and to every gallon so obtained add three pounds of loaf sugar and half a pint of brandy. Pour it into a cask, and when it has done working bung it close ; let it stand for three months, then draw it off into another cask, and when it is fine, bottle, and cork well. WITLOWS, To Cure.—Add to common pipeclay sufficient water to form a paste ; put it into a linen rag and apply it as a poultice, renewing it frequently. WOOD, Black Stains for.—Make a decoction of galls, logwood, sulphate of iron, iron filings, and vinegar, and put the wood therein till it has acquired the desired depth of colour. '-a Drop black mixed with French polish gives a deep ebony black stain. WOOD, Blue Stain for.—Boil in a gallon of water two pounds of woad, one pound of indigo, and three ounces of alum. Brush well over until the wood is thoroughly stained. Or steep the wood in a slightly diluted solution of indigo in sulphuric acid. WOOD, Brown Stain for.—If slacked quicklime be laid upoc common deal it will produce a more or less deep hue, according to tha length of time it is allowed to remain on. The wood may then be made to imitate mahogany by rubbing it with linseed oil in which alkanet has been boiled, and afterwards varnishing it. WOOD, Green Stain for.—Immerse it in a decoction of verdigris, sal ammoniac, and vinegar. WOOD, Mahogany Stain for.—Boil half a pint of madder and a quarter of a pound of fustic in a gallon of water ; brush over the wood while boiling hot, until the desired depth of colour is obtained.209 Or, brush over with a weak solution of aquafortis, half an ounce to the pint, and finish with the following :—Mix four ounces and a half of dragon’s blood, and an ounce of soda (each well bruised) in three pints of spirits of wine ; let this stand in a warm place, shake frequently, strain, and lay on with a soft brush, repeating till of a proper colour. It may be polished with linseed oil or varnished. WOOD, Purple Stain for.—Boil for one hour and a half in a gallon of water one pound of logwood chips and a quarter of a pound of Brazil wood. Brush the decoction while hot several times over the wood and let it dry ; then give an even coating of pearlash solution—one dram to a quart. WOOD, Red Stain for.—Soak the wood in alum water, and after- wards put it into a decoction of Brazil wood in lime water. WOOD, Yellow Stain for.—Brush it over with tincture of turmeric ; anotta or dragon’s blood may be added, according to the hue desired. WOOD, To Preserve.—The following process is extensively made use of on the Continent. The quantities are given in kilogrammes, or about two and a quarter pounds avoirdupois:—Linseed oil, fifteen kilo- grammes ; rosin, fifteen ; tar, five ; zinc or white lead, twelve ; vermilion, red or yellow, ten ; colour (but not clay colours, as they thicken too much), four ; cement, six ; oxide of iron, eight; gutta percha, glue, or gum, two ; hydrate of chalk, six ; lard, fifteen ; and litharge, two kilogrammes. Mix, and boil down to one-tenth the quantity. It may be applied warm ; or by mixing with it a little varnish or turpentine it may be used cold. WOODEN POSTS, To Preserve.—Bore with an inch and a quarter auger from the butt of the post to a distance that will be six inches above the ground when the post shall be set. Then char over a good fire for a quarter of an hour, so as to drive all moisture out of the heart of the butt through the hole bored ; fill the hole with boiling coal tar, and drive in a well-fitted plug, which will act as an hydraulic ram and force the tar into the hot pores of the wood, which will become thoroughly creosoted, and last sound for twenty years in place of four, as in ordinary cases. A four- inch post may have one hole in its centre; six-inch, two, side by side ; eight-inch, three ; twelve-inch, four. Posts which are already in the ground may be bored diagonally, filled with hot tar (in the dry summer time), plugged up, and re-painted. Sleeper posts for floor joists should be treated in this manner, and then their bases surrounded with a cup of puddled clay, into which pour hot coal tar. Posts thus treated cannot decay. WOODS (CHERRY AND PEAR-TREE), To Colour.—Smear the surface with a strong solution of permanganate of potash ; let it remain on a longer or shorter time, according to the shade required—five minutes will generally suffice ; then carefully wash it off, dry the wood, and oil and polish in the ordinary way. A very beautiful and permanent colour may be thus obtained. WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES (ROAST).—These birds are good only when they are fat The most delicate parts are the legs and intestines ; the fillets of woodcocks are tough and lacking in savour. When roasting, a toast should be placed under them to receive the intestines, which generally drop out, unless paper is used to secure them. Take care to stop the spit when the back is towards the fire, because the legs are to be well done, and the fillets under-done. In addition to the above way of cooking, they may be dressed in any manner that young partridges are done. WOOLLENS, To Wash.—First make some good suds by boiling soap in soft water and adding a little washing crystal. Let them stand till they are cool enough for the hand to be borne in them, then put in the flannels ; sluice them up and down till they are clean. The articles should 28210 on no account be rubbed either with soap or by the hand. Squeeze (not wring) out the suds ; throw into the rinse water, squeeze, and dry in the open air or in a warm room, but not too close to the fire. They must, however, be dried quickly, as the longer they remain wet the more likely they are to shrink. WOOL. To Dye it Blue.—Boil the wool in a decoction of logwood and sulphate or acetate of copper. WOOL. To Dye it Brown.—Cover some green walnut shells with a good amount of salt, pour off the liquor which comes from them, and steep the wool in the same. WOOL. To Dye it Drab.—Imbue it with brown oxide of iron, and afterwards immerse it in a bath of quercitron bark. WOOL. To Dye it Green.—First boil it in a decoction of logwood and sulphate of copper, and then dip it in a strong solution of fustic or weld. WOOL. To Dye it Mauve.—To each gallon of water add one tablespoonful of sulphuric acid ; heat to boiling point, then put in the goods, and boil till they have gained the shade required. Rinse in cold water. If too dark, some of the colour may be removed by rinsing in warm soap-suds. WOOL. To Dye it Red.—Take two pounds and a quarter of cream of tartar and two pounds of alum, and boil the wool gently therein for two hours ; hang it to drip dry, and the following day rinse it in clear water. Then infuse six pounds of madder for half an hour with chloride of tin, in warm water ; filter through canvas, remove the dye from the can- vas, put it in the bath, and heat it to ioo degrees Fahrenheit; add one ounce of aluminous mordant, put the wool in, and raise to boiling heat. Remove the wool, rinse, and soak it for fifteen minutes in a solution of curd soap in water. WOOL. To Dye it Yellow.—Boil the wool in an aluminous mor- dant, then dip it in a strong solution of fustic, weld, turmeric, anotta, &c., according to the tint desired. WOOL, To Scour.—Put it into a kettle with a sufficient quantity of water, mixed with one-fourth part of putrid urine ; heat it to a degree that the hand can just bear, and keep it hot for about a quarter of an hour, stirring it frequently with a stick ; then remove it from the bath, and let the water drain away ; place it in baskets, and expose it to the action of running water, and when that which drains from it is no longer turbid, set it to drain, and afterwards spread it in the sun to dry. WORMS FOR FISHING, To Scour.—Procure some long moss, wash it, squeeze out the water, and place the worms in it for a few days. By this means they will both toughen and become more lively. If moss cannot easily be procured spent tea leaves may be substituted. WORMS IN CHILDREN.—Take a pennyworth of the herb known as Indian pink; make it as ordinary herb tea, and sweeten it with sugar ; let the child take it at breakfast time, and a little while afterwards give some senna tea. Or mix a teaspoonful of flour in new milk to the consistence of cream, give to the child the first thing in the morning, and follow it up with senna tea. Common salt injections are good, and a good quantity of salt should be given with the food. WORMS IN THE FACE, To Eradicate.—Squeeze out the worms, and apply one drop of turpentine to the part. The smarting will soon pass off, and the worms will not come again. WORMS IN POTTED FLOWERS.—The most effectual method of getting rid of worms in potted plants is to keep them from water for a day or two, then to turn out the plant, and pick the worm out.211 When it is not desirable to disturb the plant, the worm may be brought to the surface by gently watering with lime water. WRINKLES, OR RELAXED SKIN, Ointment for.—To ten grains of camphor add two ounces of prepared lard and one fluid dram of rectified spirits of wine. Apply a little of the ointment at night, previously washing the face, and strengthen the body by means of tonics and nourishing diet. Bathing the parts where the wrinkles appear with alum and water will also tighten the skin. WRITERS’ CRAMP.—Rest awhile from the use of the pen, and in the interval rub the hand and arm with camphor and soap liniment. YEAST, A Good Domestic.—Boil for one hour in two gallons of water one pound of best white flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt. When milk-warm, bottle and cork it close. It will be ready for use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this yeast will make eighteen pounds of bread. YEAST (BAKERS’).—Boil for one hour one ounce of hops in nine pints of water ; let the liquor get milk-warm, then add three pounds and a half of mashed potatoes, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of carbonate of soda, a quarter of an ounce of spirits of wine, half a pound of flour, and a gill of brewer’s yeast to work it. Cover and stand it in a warm place, but not too near to the fire. YEAST (BREWERS’), To Preserve.—Fill a bottle with the thick portion of brewers’ yeast, on the top of which pour about half an inch deep of pure olive oil. Tie over with a piece of bladder, and in order to prevent explosion, make a hole with a pin through the bladder. Store in a cold place. Another way:—Get the yeast fresh from the brewery, whisk it until it becomes thin, then paint it on a clean, smooth board till about half an inch thick ; dry it slowly in a warm current of air, sprinkling a layer of salt over it before it becomes quite dry. A veneer of yeast of from two to three inches thick may be made in this way, allowing each coat to dry before another is painted on. When quite dry strip the coating off the board and preserve it in air-tight tins. When required for use, cut a piece off and lay it in warm water till dissolved. YEAST (GERMAN), To Imitate.—Put ordinary beer yeast into a close canvas bag, squeeze out the moisture gently and gradually until the residue acquires the consistence of cheese, then put it into waxed cloths till required for use. YEAST (POTATO).—Boil some nice mealy potatoes, beat them tc a mash, and mix them with hot water till of the consistence of paste. To each pound of the vegetable add two ounces of treacle ; stir together and let it stand till it is only just warm, then add two tablespoonfuls of yeast to each pound of potatoes ; cover it up and stand it before the fire till fermentation ceases. It will be fit for use on the day following. ZINCING.—Copper and brass vessels may be covered with a firmly adherent layer of pure zinc by boiling them in a solution of chloride of zinc, pure zinc turnings being at the same time present in considerable excess. ZINC WORK, To Re-Galvanize.—Steep the article in dilute sulphuric acid until all the old zinc is removed ; scour off the rust with sand and hot water, and dip first in a solution of sal ammoniac, and after- wards in molten zinc. A stratum of ground glass should be kept floating on the surface of the molten metal to prevent it evaporating in fumes. ZEPHYRANTHES.—There are several varieties of this pretty212 dower. That known as Zephyranthes Candida produces a single flower in October, with three white interior lobes, the three exterior being fringed with pink. It delights in a warm, dry soil, and is quite hardy, the only care it requires being to be taken up every third or fourth year for division of the bulb. The Zephyranthes Atamasco is equally hardy with the fore- going, and, if anything, handsomer. The Zephyranthes rosea is best grown in a frame, in pots. UNWIN BROTHERS, LIMITED. PRINTERS, WOKING AND LONDON,F. C. GOULD’S FROISSART. SIR BLUNDELL DE MAPLE PEOTESTETH THAT TOWEL-HORSES WOULD HAVE BETTER SERVED THE ARMY THAN THE HORSES THAT HAD BEEN BOUGHT IN HUNGARY. TWO VOLUMES. 1. FROISSART S MODERN CHRONICLES, 1901. 2. FROISSART’S MODERN CHRONICLES, 1902. TOLD AND PICTURED BY F. C. GOULD. Each volume Cloth, foolscap 4to, 3T. 6d. Also a Fine Edition of Vol. //., limited to 50 copies, on Japan Papery numbered and signed, 21 s. net. “The second volume of Mr. F. C. Gould’s ‘Froissart’s Modern Chronicles ’ is fully equal to the first. The rich vein of pure gold, which the artist-author has struck, is far from exhausted. F. C. G. ranks easily first among English political caricaturists ; w'e doubt, indeed, if he is surpassed by any living exponent of his very special craft.” Daily Telegraph. “Mr. Gould, I think, may well be ‘orgulous’ in having written a delightful work of light satire, in which, as in all he does, there is never a foul stroke. No words of mine can paint the joy of the lover of humorous pencil-work, who shall get hold of the ‘ Modern Chronicles.’ It is, after all, as a picture-maker that F. C. G. stands entirely alone.”— Vanity Fair. “The drollest, most ingenious, and most versatile of living political caricaturists. ”— World. T. FISHER UNWIN, 11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.C. 29T. FISHER UNWIN, Publisher, 0 xx, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.C. Recent Volumes in the STORY OP THE NATIONS A SERIES OP FOPULAR HISTORIES. Each Volume complete with Alaps, many Illustrations, and an Index. Large crown 8vo, fancy cloth, gold lettered, or Library Edition, dark cloth, burnished red top, 5a. each. Or tnay be had in half Persian, cloth sides, gilt tops: Price on Application. 49. Austria. By Sidney Whitman. 50. Modern England before the Reform Bill. By Justin McCarthy. 51. China. With a New Chapter on Recent Events. By Prof. R. K. Douglas. 52. Modern England under Queen Victoria. By Justin McCarthy. 53. Modern Spain, 1873-1898. By Martin A. S. Hume, F.R.H.S., Author of “Sir Walter Ralegh,” &c. 54. Modern Italy, 1758-1898. By Pietro Orsi, Professor of History in the R. Liceo Foscarini, Venice. With over 40 Illustrations and Maps. 55. Norway. By Professor Hialmar H. Boyesen, Author of “ Idylls of Norway.” 56. Wale3. By Owen Edwards. IN PREPARATION. The United States of America, 1783-1900. By A. C. M’Laughlin. In 2 Volumes. The Papal Monarchy: From Gregory the Great to Boniface VIII. By Rev. W. Barry. Mediaeval Rome. By William Miller. Buddhist India. By T. W. Rhys Davids. The Story of Greece (to the Roman Occupation). By E. S. Shuckburgh. The Story of Greece (from the Roman Occupation to A.D. 1453). By E. S. Shuckburgh.T. FISHER UNWIN, Publisher, i 11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.C. THE RAIDERS BT S. R. CROCKETT Eighth Edition. Crown Svo., cloth, 6s. "A thoroughly enjoyable novel, full of fresh, original, and accurate pictures of life long gone by.”—Daily News. “A strikingly realistic romance.”—Morning Post. “ A stirring story. . . . Mr. Crockett’s style is charming. My Baronite never knew how musical and picturesque is Scottish- English till he read this book.”—Punch. “ The youngsters have their Stevenson, their Barrie, and now a third writer has entered the circle, S. R. Crockett, with a lively and jolly book of adventures, which the paterfamilias pretends to buy for his eldest son, but reads greedily himself and won’t let go till he has turned over the last page. . . . Out of such historical elements and numberless local traditions the author has put together an exciting tale of adventures on land and sea.” Frankfurter Zeitung. SOME SCOTCH NOTICES. “Galloway folk should be proud to rank ‘The Raiders’ among the classics of the district.”—Scotsman. “Mr. Crockett’s ‘The Raiders’ is one of the great literary successes of the season.”—Dundee Advertiser. “ Mr. Crockett has achieved the distinction of having produced the book of the season.”—Dumfries and Galloway Standard. “The story told in it is, as a story, nearly perfect.” Aberdeen Daily Free Press, “ ‘ The Raiders ’ is one of the most brilliant efforts of recent fiction.”—Kirkcudbrightshire Advertiser.T. FISHER UNWIN, Publisher, 11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.G. 5 THE STICKIT MINISTER AND SOME COMMON MEN S. R- CROCKETT Eleventh Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth, Os. “ Here is one of the books which are at present coming singly and at long intervals, like early swallows, to herald, it is to be hoped, a larger flight When the larger flight appears, the winter of our discontent will have passed, and we shall be able to boast that the short story can make a home east as well as west of the Atlantic. There is plenty of human nature—of the Scottish variety, which is a very good variety—in * The Stickit Minister’ and its com- panion stories ; plenty of humour, too, of that dry, pawky kind which is a monopoly of ‘ Caledonia, stern and wild ’; and, most plentiful of all, a quiet -arception and reticent rendering of that underlying pathos of life which is to 6e discovered, not in Scotland alone, but everywhere that a man is found who can see with the heart and the imagination as well as the brain. Mr. Crockett has given us a book that is not merely good, it is what his countrymen would call ‘ by-ordinar’ good,’ which, being interpreted into a tongue understanded of the southern herd, means that it is excellent, with a somewhat exceptional kind of excellence.”—Daily Chronicle. THE LILAC BONNET SUN- BT S. R. CROCKETT Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. % * Mr. Crockett’s * Lilac Sun-Bonnet ’ ‘ needs no bush.’ Here is a pretty love tale, and the landscape and rural descriptions carry the exile back into the Kingdom of Galloway. Here, indeed, is the scent of bog-myrtle and peat. After inquiries among the fair, I learn that of all romances, they best love, not ‘ sociology,’ not ‘ theology,’ still less, open manslaughter, for a motive, but Just love’s young dream, chapter after chapter. From Mr. Crockett they get what they want, ‘ hot with,’ as Thackeray admits that he liked it." Mr. Andrew Lang in Longman s Magattne.T. FISHER UNWIN, Publisher, I 14, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.G. THE GREY MAN BY S. R. CROCKETT Crown 8vo., cloth, 6s. Also, an Edition dc Luxe, with 26 Drawings by Seymour Lucas, R.A., limited to 250 copies, signed by Author. Crown 4to., cloth gilt, 21s. net. “ It has nearly all the qualities which go to make a book of the first-class. Before you have read twenty pages you know that you are reading a classic.”—Literary World. “All of that vast and increasing host of readers who prefer the novel of action to any other form of fiction should, nay, indeed, must, make a point of reading this exceedingly fine example of its class.”—Daily Chronicle. “With such passages as these [referring to quotations], glowing with tender passion, or murky with power, even the most insatiate lover of romance may feel that Mr. Crockett has given him good measure, well pressed down and running over.”—Daily Telegraph rT. FISHER UNWIN, Publisher, 11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.C f TROOPER PETER HAL- KET OF MASHONALAND BT OLIVE SCHREINER Author of “ Dreams,” “ Real Life and Dream Life,” &c. Crovm 8va., cloth, 2s. 6i © “ We advise our readers to purchase and read Olive Schreiner’s new book 1 Trooper Peter Halket of Mashona- land.’ Miss Schreiner is one of the few magicians of modern English literature, and she has used the great moral, as well as the great literary, force of her style to great effect.”—Daily Chtonicle. il The story is one that is certain to be widely read, and it is well that it should be so, especially at this moment; it grips the heart and haunts the imagination. To have written such a book is to render a supreme service, for it is as well to know what the rough work means of subjugating inferior races.”—Daily News. " Some of the imaginative passages are very fine. . . , The book is powerfully written.”—Scotsman. u Is well and impressively written.”—Pall Mall Gazette.c> • .I ♦ % &■ mi bookseller f 2> PALACE 8TREI buokingham gate