/ SERIES IX, SHLHDS, S3KDWICHES, aijfl SaVOURJES. LON»OIf i HORACE COX, QUEEN" OITJCE, BBEAM'ET BUILDINGS. EC,yj?.' ■Med K8586THE “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS. /A dvertisements. tu O 2 S CO < >- o QC C/3 P <a1 03 P ed u < o m CO LM fiC < P 03 03 4* § u 3 C5 ■ u g» u &£ 3 ® Mt-l &< o' ®.2 h'o Wh] a I o I bD CO o COJ PM < i> M3 •« C3 SM ® h" (0 LU O q: < o o 03 < • Q 0^ < -3 Q Z < z o o < ca < E z' < u 03 •h C/3 s a 0^ o CL o c/3 J < u Ki e &< S5 O » a; o «! o* -s ^ b «3 IS o H I—( » H l-H s 09 -S ^ § 09 f. 2- g « .s a K| i § «? K) PM « O g tM; Pm (O 0 01 <0 Q ss o •0 S3 oTHE lUEEN” COOKERT BOORS. NO. 9. SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND SAVOURIES. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY-POWN ALL, Depaxtlnental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper, and AutRor of “A Book of Sauces.” LONDON:• HORACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 1901.LONDON : FEINTED BY HOEACE COX, WINDSOE HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINOS, E.O. ,<C06^^ historioau 1 medical' / WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll.- welMOmec Call No. ccr 1PEEFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the la«t eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little good will. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs, whose kindness has so materially helped and rendered possible my work in these last years. ■ S. Beatt-Pownall. Nov., 1901.Advertisements. x^imcoz^nsxxxre farm produce:* WHITE CLOVER HONEY Specially selected from the best Apiaries, and de- clared by connoisseurs to be the finest Engbsh Honey ever introduced to the pubbc. Each jar bears over the cap a Red Guarantee Label with the words, “ Guaranteed Pure EngUsb Honey,” without which, and the registered picture label, none is genuine. Sold in lib. and 21b. Glass Jars at Is. or 2s. by the usual dealers, or a Is. Jar will be sent direct from the factory for stamps, Is. 3d. CHEESECAKE CURD iu Jars, Is. and 2s. ORANGE BUTTER, in Jars, 6|d. and Is. Fbeb Samples of the Cheesecake Curd and Orange Butter sent on giving your own and Grocer’s name and address, or jar of each DELIGHT mailed free for P.O. 3s. 6d. Sole Makers AND Proprietors : SPRING & CO., Ltd., Brigg, Lincolnshire.COI^TEOTS. CHAPTER I. Fancy Salads ... ... ... ... ... ... page 1 CHAPTER II. Sandwiches ..! ... ... ... ... ... ... 19 CHAPTER III. Hors d’CEuvre... ... ... ... ... ... ... 41 CHAPTER IV. Savouries ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 CHAPTER V. avouries (continued) ... ... ... ... ... 85 CHAPTER VI. Garnishes, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... IllAdvertisements. Mustard Manufacturers by Special Warrant to H.M. the Queen. D. S. F. MUSTARD. See that Coiman’s name is on the Tin. CORN FLOUR. For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. Self-Rising* Flour. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. io8, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS, NORWICH.SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND SAVOURIES. CHAPTER I. FANCY SALADS. Fancy salads may scarcely seem to belong to this Series, and probably most people would consider their proper place to be amongst vegetables, but the fact remains that the proportion of dainty odds and ends which go to make up their whole, is often more animal than vegetable, whilst they are more and more becoming part and parcel of the list of savouries; and many a tiny salade d la mignonne plays a successful part amongst hors oeuvres. There are not many prettier, or more acceptable, dishes, especiaUy in summer, than the fancy salad (if nicely prepared), and, still more to the point, few are more quickly and easily got up, or more economical, if the housewife is an adept at what our grandmothers termed “ elegant economy.” They may be served in the ordinary salad bowl, in separate portions as salades d la mignonne, or, if time BSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 9 be not stinted, as regular set dishes with a garnish, and possibly a border of aspic. The recipes following will give a good idea of both the simple and the more ornate kinds, remembering always that either can be tmmed into the salade d la mignonne by simply dishing the salad either on drained and seasoned artichoke bottoms, halved and seasoned tomatoes, or in j)aper cases, which, by the way, will be found a real economy (for, bought by the gross, their price is a very small affair), serving as they do to produce dainty dishes from all sorts of remains, which I once heard a clever French- woman describe as “ les beaux restes en salade.” Take, for instance, beef en vinaigrette. For this, properly, the cold bouilli from the pot au feti should be used, but it is equally good if made with cold roast, or boiled salt beef. For this slice the meat down very thinly, and lay it in a deep dish (a regular salad bowl, though used at times abroad, is rather too deep for this). Now arrange well washed and boned anchovy fillets (or flakes of good cooked kippers, or bloaters) in a trellis over the meat, sprinkle it all with minced chives, chervil, parsley, and cress (according to what you have at hand), season generously with oil, vinegar, and freshly ground black pepper, and serve, without, however, mixing it further. A version of a somewhat more ornate description answers excellently for cold roast beef. Eemove all sinew, skin, or burnt parts from the meat, seasoning it lightly with salt, pepper, and a very few drops of oil. Prepare a dressing thus: Put into a basin half , a teaspoonful of salt, a3 FANCY SALADS. good pilidi of freshly ground black pej^per (this freshness deserves far more attention than it obtains from British cooks), and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar; stir this all together till the salt is perfectly dissolved, then work into the mixture three good tablespoonfuls of best Provence oil (this is usually far sweeter than the ordinary Lucca oil) till it is all well amalgamated; have ready some cold boiled and sliced potatoes (the kidney, or waxy potatoes, are best for this), some sliced beetroot, and two or three hard-boiled and sliced eggs, together with the above ingredients (or as many of them as you like), and toss these in the dressing given above, mixing them well till all the dressing is absorbed and the ingredients thoroughly saturated. Now lift them out, pile them up in a dish, and arrange the meat neatly round. Some cooks, how- ever, use the sliced eggs, beetroot, and potato for a garnish, roughly mincing the meat, and tossing it in with the other salad material, but this is a matter of taste. Be it remembered that a salad should never be mixed in the bowl it is to be served in; especially is this the case when lettuce is used, as it is most difficult to get this properly dry unless the salad maker takes the trouble to wipe each leaf indi- vidually, a trouble no average cook will take. But if well mixed in a kitchen basin the salad can be thoroughly tossed in the dressing, and then lifted into the salad bowl clear of superfluous moisture. Also bear in mind that the dressing should in no case be mixed with the salad till it is going to table, or it will inevitably make it sodden. If the salad B 2SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 4 must be prepared beforehand, arrange your dish, put the green stuff neatly on a plate on ice, or in a cold place, and the dressing ready mixed in a wide- mouthed, closely covered jar (for if the air gets to mayonnaise it makes it rank); the salad can then be quickly mixed at the last, and neatly dished, and will look and eat crisp and fresh. Fish can be made into a salad in jjrecisely the same way, only varying the ingredients according to the fish or the season, but always sprinkle it at the last with minced herbs, or fourniture as the French call it. For chicken use well washed and dried lettuce broken up (never cut lettuces!), j>eeled and sliced tomato, cucumber, artichoke bottoms, &c. For these the dressing given above is much to be recom- mended, and a good sprinkling of minced ham or tongue should not be omitted. As mayonnaise is a sauce that does not stand well (though a good spoonful of absolutely boiling water to the half jDint, stirred in carefully at the last, will prevent its thickening unduly), the following recijte for ‘‘ cooked mayonnaise,” for which I am indebted to M. C. H. Senn, may be useful: For this stir together in a basin a tablespoonful each of sugar, oil, and salt, and a full dessertspoonful of mustard, till j^erfectly smooth; then work in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, next a gill of vinegar, and lastly half a pint of milk or single cream, and stir these all over the fire in the bain-marie till of the consistency of custard, but without letting it boil. It is ready when the mixture will coat the spoon thickly and smoothly. This, if tightly bottled, will keep for several days.5 FANCY SALADS. and is consequently most useful for picnics. Still, it wants somewhat of the delicacy of an absolutely freshly made mayonnaise. Salade tl la Russe.—This is made with a macedoine of cold cooked vegetables cut into neat pieces, or into olive or marble shapes, and the greater the variety the better. Asparagus points, green peas, cauli- flowers broken up small, sliced beetroot, turned (i.e., cut into balls) carrots and turnips, haricot or flageolet beans, all come in (in winter bottled or canned vegetables answer capitally if care be taken to choose a good brand). When these are all cold, drain them well, and toss them in the oil and vinegar dressing given above, with (for a teacupful of each of the vegetables mentioned) about two tablespoonfuls of French capers, the same of French gherkins cut into dice, and the same of washed, boned, and filleted anchovies, together with eighteen or twenty stoned olives (some cooks omit the ancho- vies, using the olives sold ready stuffed with anchovy in their stead); and lastly a couple of spoonfuls of minced tarragon and chervil, and a dessertspoonful of very finely minced chives or shallot. When these are all well mixed in, turn it into the salad bowl and then garnish it with quartered ha.d-boiled eggs (or plovers’ eggs if in season), little heaps of caviar, timny (pickled), lobster, and small fillets of cold fish, &c. This is one version of this popular dish, but many exist, and there are very few ingredients that cannot, and do not, find their way into Eussian salad. Many cooks use fillets of cold chicken or game for this.6 SALADS, SANDWICHES, etc. with slices of ham or tongue and foie gras, but these belong to a version more correctly known as salade d VItalienne, in which chicken, ham, or tongue, crayfish,, and last, but not least, mayonnaise play important parts, but the method of making is precisely the same. Salade de Homard en Aspic.—Shce down the body of a good lobster neatly; have ready some stiff aspic jelly made with delicately clarified fish stock for choice, and pour this into a border mould in a quarter inch layer; when this is stiff, but not quite hard, lay in the pieces of lobster in a circle, with alternate slices of cucumber and leaves of tarrao’on, then pour in enough aspic to fill up the mould, and put it away to set. Break up one or more nicely washed and dried lettuce, and mix it with the trimmings of the lobster (reserving the claws), cut up fine ; then when the mould is set turn it out, pile up the lettuce, &c., well mixed with good mayonnaise, in the centre, and garnish with the reserved pieces of lobster, sliced cucumber, plovers’ eggs, or hard- boiled hens’ eggs (choose small ones) quartered, sliced tomato, &c., according to what you have handy. This can manifestly be varied to taste, and is especially good made of cold fish, and shrimj^s, or prawns. Bemember in making mayonnaise for fish salads that, though hardly correct, a teaspoonful of Burgess’s essence of anchovy is a great addition to each half pint of mayonnaise, as it brings out the full flavour of the fish, though it should never be sii£S.cient to be actually detected as a sejsarate flavour.7 FANCT SALADS. The same remark applies to the mayonnaise sauce for one of the nicest American salads, chicken and salsify salad, as the anchovy brings out strongly the oyster flavour' of the salsify, which for this salad should be cooked and allowed to get cold before use. If for this you use scorzanera, or black salsify—the one most used in America—be sure you impress on your cook the necessity of not peeling it before it is cooked, as, if peeled first, it “ sweats,” just as beetroot does, and loses most of its moisture and flavour. All salads, American ones especially, should always stand on ice or in some very cold place till wanted, and when dished the salad basin or dish should be placed in an outer dish full of cracked or broken up ice. Special dishes are made for this purpose. Scallops again, when in season, offer a welcome variety from, prawns or lobster, and make a particularly good and unconventional salad. Steep the fish for an hour in salted water, then rinse in plenty of cold water and simmer them gently for twenty-five minutes. When cooked plunge the scallops into cold water, drain well, and shce them. Have ready crisped and shred a nice head of celery, arrange this in a dish, put the scallops on top, then cover it' all with white mayonnaise, and serve garnished w^th sliced tomato, cucumber, and tiny celery tufts. Mock Grab Salad d VAmericaine.—Mash up from 4oz. to 6oz. of any soft rich cheese with pepper (black and red), salt, mustard (both French and English), and about a gill of best white wine vinegar mixed with a good teaspoonful of essence of anchovy.SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 8 This should be as thick as butter. Flake some cold cooked cod, and put a little of this mixture on each flake. Now arrange this fish in the bowl, with broken up lettuce, celery (salsify, celeriac, or seakale can be used), sliced cucumber, &c., as is most convenient, seasoning all these vegetables well with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper before using them; then cover it with tomato mayonnaise very smoothly, garnishing this with turned olives stuffed with filleted anchovy, hard-boiled and quartered eggs, &c. Any white fish can be used in this way. Lobster Salad for a Picnic.—Line an ordinary pudding basin with aspic jelly, and pack it lightly with flaked lobster, turned olives, anchovy fillets, and shreds of chilli skin (mind you get no seeds or it will be too hot for comfort), seasoning it all with the following: Mix together a dessertspoonful of French mustard (or English mustard rubbed smooth with equal parts of milk and tarragon vinegar), a saltspoonful of salt, and half that of freshly ground black pepper, working into this gradually seven or eight good teaspoonfuls of salad oil to one of vinegar (the usual proportion for oil and vinegar in a salad dressing is one part vinegar to three of oil, but a much more delicate one is one part vinegar to seven or eight of oil); when this is well blended with the lobster ran sufficient aspic jelly over it to fix it all, and let it stand till firm. Pack it in its mould, and when you reach your destination break up some nice young lettuces, wiping them well, and removing the outer withei’ed leaves (these shouldFANCY SALADS. 9 always be kept on till the last, as they help to keep the lettuce fresh), slice to them some cucumber and some nice young radishes, mix all well with mayon- naise (brought in a tightly stoppered wide-mouthed bottle), turn out the shape of lobster, and serve garnished with the dressed salad, and some plovers’, or quartered hard-boiled eggs. Salmon, prawns, crab, or indeed almost any fish, are good thus. Mayonnaise de Soles d la Gherhourgeoise.—Fillet some soles, and cut each fillet into two or more pieces, according to the size of the fish; bat these out with a wet knife, season each with lemon juice, white pepper, and salt, and then roll each about some pieces of carrot (the size of a small wine cork, as the fillets should be small), fastening them in place with bands of buttered paper. Place these fillets in a pan with a sherryglassful of white wine (French for choice), a gill of fish stock or water, a pinch of salt, and a little lemon juice, and cook for twelve to fifteen minutes under a buttered paper, then lift out, and when cold slip out the carrots. Fill up the centre of each fillet with rich mayonnaise, into which you have stirred some minced olives, and place the little rolls in an aspic-hned border mould alternately with an olive farced with a fillet of anchovy; thru set this all with enough aspic to fill the mould, and leave it till set. Meanwhile prepare a sauce thus : Make a custard with half a pint of milk and the yolks of three or four eggs, seasoning this rather highly with salt, white pepper, and a good dust of coralHne pepper, and set it aside till cold. Now put about a gill of Chablis, or good10 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. French vinegar, into a pan with a small minced shallot, a peppercorn or two, and a pinch of salt, and boil this down sharply till only a tablespoonful or so is left; then whisk it all very gradually to the cold custard, mixing in at the same time about two spoonfuls of shrimp puree (i.e., shrimps rubbed through a sieve with a little butter), and a full one of roughly minced shrimps. Pour this mixture into some aspic-lined dariole moulds, pouring more aspic over the top to fix them, and leave till quite set. Now well wash, dry, and break up some good lettuce, turn out the border mould, arrange the little dariole moulds all round the top, and fill up the centre with the lettuce tossed in a good mayonnaise dressing, only adding this in at the last, and, if liked, mixing some shelled shrimps amongst the lettuce. Soles prepared thus are deheious if the centre of the mould is filled with a mixture of cold, cooked, sliced Jerusalem artichokes, sliced trufiles, finely shred celery (or sliced cooked celeriac), and stewed mussels, or raw oysters, adding the liquor of the latter to the mayonnaise sauce. Treated thus it is known as Mayonnaise de soles d la Celestine. This can naturally be varied to any extent. Another form. Mayonnaise de soles d VAgnes, is made by filling an aspic-lined border mould with broken up lettuce, sliced radishes, cucumber, &c., all tossed in a rich mayonnaise sauce, garnishing the toj) with little rolled fillets of sole with a farced olive on the top of each, and filling the centre with the following: To a full gill or rather more of rich lobster sauce add11 FANCY SALADS. a good seasoning of coralline j>epper, a gill of stiffly whipped cream, two tablespoonfuls of rich mayon- naise sauce, six sieved anchovies, and the cream from the head of the lobster. This is also delicious if salmon be used instead of sole, flaking the cooked salmon neatly, arranging it en couronne round the top of the mould of salad, and filling up with the sauce as before and a garnish of plover’s eggs. Huitres en Salade.—Have ready some rich tomato mayonnaise (rub six or eight well-coloured tomatoes through a sieve into three-quarters of a pint of rich mayonnaise, with a full tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar and three-quarters of a pint of just liquid aspic); if the tomatoes are not a good colour add a drop or two of carmine (bnt not otherwise),, and fill a border mould with this, adding some peeled and quartered tomatoes, and let it set. Turn out, and fill up the centre with oysters, shred celery (or sliced cooked celeriac), cut up artichoke bottoms, and sliced cucumber, seasoning the whole with the oyster liquor strained, lemon juice, cream, pepper and salt. If . preferred, the American white mayonnaise, made with cream and lemon juice instead of oil and vinegar, may be used. But in any case serv^ this salad very cold. Fancy salads are always improved by being served with a border mould of aspic jelly, either plain or filled with a garnish appropriate to the salad, for instance, sliced hard-boiled or plovers’ eggs, fillets of fish, meat, or game, tiny sprays of parsley, chervil, tarragon, Ac. Aspic is so easy to make for thisSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 12 purpose, and so inexpensive, that it is well worth the little time and trouble it involves, for it certainly adds immensely to the dish. Mayonnaise de Saumon a la JocJcey Club.—Take any remains of cold salmon and flake it neatly free from bones, skin, &c. Line a border mould with aspic, then fill it with the flaked salmon, some capers, anchovy fillets, and white mayonnaise, and leave till set. Turn out, place a crown of plovers’ eggs round the top of the border mould, fixing them with chopped aspic by means of a bag and pipe, and fill up the centre with cooked asparagus points, new potatoes, and truffles sliced and seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and white pepper. A very nice and certainly more economical version of this is made by filling the centre with cold cooked new potatoes tossed in oil and vinegar, and sprinkled with minced parsley and chives, garnishing the top of the mould with tomato cups, prepared thus : Choose small round tomatoes, cut a round off each, and scoop out the pulp and seeds with a spoon, keeping the skin as whole and well shaped as you can, and leave the latter on ice till wanted. Now mix the pulp and the juice thus obtained with shred salmon (lobster, crab, shrimps, or anything handy of the kind), seasoning it lightly with coralline pepper, salt, and aspic jelly, allowing a spoonful of aspic for each tomato. As soon as this begins to stiffen fill up the tomatoes with the mixture in a dome shape, and directly this is hard, mask it over very smoothly with mayonnaise, and strew the top with minced olives, or, failing these, minced parsley, and use.FANCY SALADS. 13 Needless to say that any cold fish can be used uj) in these ways, only varying the garnishes. Macedoine de Grahe en Mayonnaise.—Line a plain timballe or Charlotte mould with aspic, then fill it to the depth of an inch or so with either some of the contents of a bottle or tin of vegetable macedoine, or else cold cooked vegetables of all kinds (carrots, turnij), cucumber, French beans, &c.), season with pepj>er, salt, oil, and vinegar, pouring sufiicient aspic over it to set it well. Now fill up the mould to within one and a half inches of the edge with a crab puree made thus: Pick the flesh from a freshly cooked crab, and put the meat into a basin, mixing it with about a gill and a haK of tartare sauce, a gill of stifiiy whipped cream, and about two gills of just liquid aspic jelly ; stir it all well together, and use just as it is setting, covering this again with a layer of the vegetables as before, and running a layer of aspic jelly over it to set it. Prepare a nice lettuce salad, using a French salad dressing and a good sprinkle of mixed herbs (parsley, chives, tarragon, chervil, &c.), then turn out the mould of crab, and serve garnished with seasoned lettuce, plovers’ eggs (if in season), little heaps of caviare, &c., all round. Needless to say, this is equally good if any other fish, to say nothing of poultry or game, is substituted for the crab. These will give some idea of the use of fish in salads, but, indeed, strange as it may sound, chicken or game can in almost every case replace the fish. Chicken 8alade aux Tomates.—The chicken for this dish should be boiled, or stewed, in equal partsSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 14 of milk and stock, and be allowed to get quite cold in this liquor ; then cut it up very neatly, obtaining as many fillets as possible. The bones and trim- mings are then returned to the liquor in which the bird was cooked and boiled down till all the good- ness is extracted, when you skim and strain it and use it for a white chauxfroix sauce by pouring it on to some white roux (allowing half a pint of stock to every 2oz, of roux) ; then again bring it to the boil, with ioz. of leaf gelatine to each half pint of sauce, and cook sharply till it is well reduced and coats the spoon on lifting the latter. Just as this is setting, mask the filleted chicken very evenly and smoothly with it. Have ready some good celery cut into Julienne strips and steeped in cold water to crisjj it; mix to this some blanched and peeled walnuts lightly chopped, and stir this all in white mayon- naise aspic (two good tablespoonfuls of white mayonnaise, made with cream and lemon juice instead of oil and vinegar, to half a pint of aspic jelly), and pour the whole mixture into a border mould. When firm turn out and fill up the centre with the trimmings of the fowl, some crisped celery, and tomatoes, all cut into a kind of Julienne strips, seasoning it all well with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Arrange the chicken fillets round the top of the mould alternately with slices of nice red, cooked tongue cut to match, garnishing it all with chopped aspic and turned olives farced with fillets of anchovy. Remember the success of this dish depends in great measure on the centre filling being mixed and seasoned just as it is sent to table, while15 FANCY SALADS. the tomatoes should have been stood on ice some time before use. This dish is an American one, and to be eaten in perfection should be served in an outside bowl full of crushed ice. It cannot be too sti'ongly impressed both on cooks and house mis- tresses that the success of all salads and mayonnaises alike depends in great measure on the freshness of the mixing. A properly mixed French dressing will not deteriorate so much, though, of course, it is never in perfection save when fresh, but a mayonnaise which has to stand any time exposed to the air is absolutely and irredeemablv ruined, the sauce becomins; rank and discoloured, whilst the ingredients mixed with it are sodden and flabby. If a mayonnaise has to stand for any time it is far better to enclose the mayonnaise itseK either alone, or mixed with vegetables, &c., in an aspic-lined mould, as this excludes the air and keeps the mixture in relatively good condition. Lamb Salad a la Printaniere.—Carefully braize, or roast, the best end of a neck of lamb, and when perfectly cold trim it into neat little cutlets, dipping each of these as trimmed in mint jelly (two good tablespoonfuls of mint sauce stirred into half a pint of aspic and used just as it is setting) and allow them to set. AiTange these en couronne, and fill up the centre w’th the broken up hearts of young lettuces, and, if liked, very small spring onions, and toss the whole in some good mayoniiaise; then serve garnished with plovers’ eggs and chopped aspic. For another version of this dish you cut neat slices from some cold roast lamb, trimming off all skinSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 16 and sinews, but leaving a fair proiDortion of fat. Fill a border mould about an inch deep with the mint jelly, and when firm turn it out, pile up the lamb with lettuce mayonnaise, as above, in the centre, and serve with the top of the border garnished alternately with plovers’ eggs and turned olives farced with mayonnaise. Beef Salad a la Chateau.—Slice some cold roast or braised beef thinly, season each slice with salt, spiced pepper, and chopped olives or capers, roll each up neatly, and cut into two-inch lengths; sprinkle each with finely scraped horseradish, and then mask lightly with a little aspic jelly to fix the garnish and to glaze the rolls, leaving these till perfectly set. Fill a border mould about an inch deep with mayonnaise aspic, to which you have added mixed olives or capers (according to what you used with the beef) and some washed, boned, and filleted anchovies. Wlien set, turn this out and fill the centre with a macedoine of cold cooked vegetables tossed in oil and chilli vinegar, with a good dust of freshly minced tarragon and chervil. Arrange the rolls of beef on the border mould with a light garnish of scraped horseradish. Salade d la Paysanne.—For this you mix together pickled red cabbage, sliced cold potatoes, and either cooked celeriac or celery root, seasoning it all with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Arrange this in a kind of wall round the dish, and fill up with sliced cold salt or stewed beef, lightly dusted with salt and freshly ground black pepper, and if liked a few drops of oil.FANCY SALADS. 17 Salade Suedoise.—For this toss together pickled herring freed from skin and bone, and trimmed into fillets, cold roast or stewed beef, cold boiled potatoes, and sour apples, all chopped roughly, with capers and sliced French gherkins; seasoning it with a plain oil and vinegar dressing, and garnishing it with stoned olives, filleted anchovies, and shreds of red chiUies. Another variation of this consists of a macedoine of vegetables mixed with cold potato sliced, sliced beetroot, and cold sausage, garnished as above, and served with a ravigote sauce—i.e., a mayonnaise to which you have added a little extra tarragon vinegar, a spoonful of cream, together with some chopped parsley, cress, and tarragon, with a drop or two of vegetable green colouring, to bring it all to a pale apple green. Be careful not to overdo this colouring. Salade Flamande.—For this you trim some good bloaters, removing all bone and skin; slice down some sour apples, beetroot, cold cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, cardoons, or seakale (according to what you have), and some cauliflower, and toss in an oil or vinegar salad dressing, and serve garnished with the filleted bloaters. Some persons use sliced Hamburg beef instead of, or together with, the bloaters. Watercress and Apple Salad (French).—Well wash, pick over, and dry some nice fresh watercress and mix it with rather more than half its bulk of good, sharp, and very thinly sliced apples; toss in a French salad dressing, or in mayonnaise, as you please, and serve with either hot or cold roast beef. c18 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. This must be made when wanted, or the sliced apple will discolour. The above, which are naturally nothing like an exhaustive list, may serve to give some ideas as to the many ways in which scraps of all kinds can readily be tossed up into a savoury addition to an insufficient menu, for, as said above, every kind of fish, flesh, or fowl, to say nothing of vegetables, is suited to the salad bowl.CHAPTEE II. SAJNDWICHES. There are few people who have not, at one time or another, had cause to rue the ignorance of the average cook in the matter of sandwiches, even putting out of court at once the fossilised remnants of prehistoric ham, petrified beef, and sawdust- shaving bread that figure under the name at some of our railway stations, to the imfeigned astonish- ment of the foreign traveller, who does not know whether to take them seriously or not. Certainly these articles of food have progressed since the days of the gambling earl, who, to save interrupting his game by dinner, had pieces of meat placed between slices of bread and butter and brought to him at the card table, incidentally bestowing his name on the provision. Nowadays sandwiches may be roughly divided between those intended for utility and those fancy ones which figure at smart five o’clock tea and other tables. The former consist principally of thin plain bread and butter, neatly trimmed to fit pocket or sandwich case, inclosing slices of meat of any kind, seasoned to c 2SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 20 taste, and often kept moist by the addition of a slice or two of cucumber, tomato, or lettuce ; the latter are tiny mouthfuls of all kinds of savoury food, to stimulate and excite the appetite without being really of any great nutritive value. A few direc- tions may be given for each kind. In any case tin loaves are best, and should preferably be twenty- four hours old. Butter, slice them about one- eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut off the crusts. There is a great knack in spreading these slices, and where the time can be spared the butter should be beaten to a cream by hand or with a delicately clean wooden spoon. It can then readily be seasoned to taste with pepper, salt, &c. M. C. H. Senn, the well-known chef of the National Training School of Cookery (to whom, by the way, I am much indebted for my sandwich knowledge), advises the following mixture for spreading the bread: Weigh and beat ^Ib. of fresh butter to a cream, then mix in lightly a gill of stiffly whipped cream, with mustard (French or English), salt, and, if liked, a little cayenne or coralline pepper to taste. This butter, by the way, if kept on ice or in a cold place, keeps good for a fortnight or so. Savoury butters of all kinds are extremely good for sandwiches, and being very easy to make should be kept handy in a house where sandwiches are in request. Cayenne, coralline, mustard, or curry butter is made by beating 4oz. or 5oz. of fresh butter to a cream, and incorporating with it a teaspoonful of either pepper (the coralline gives a pretty red colour especially suitable for lobster, shrimp, or other fish21 SAJSTDWICHES. sandwicli), or ratlier more of cnrrj powder or mustard flour, in the two latter cases adding a dash of cayenne and a few drops of lemon juice or chilli vinegar. Anchovy hutter is made by well washing, boning, and pounding eight anchovies, working an ounce of butter into them as you pound (sieving them at the last, if you think the bones have not been properly removed), and finally rub this up smoothly with 4oz. to 5oz. of fresh, or the savoury butter first given. Essence of anchovy or anchovy paste may be used instead of the fish, but is not so delicate. Lobster, prawn, or shrimp hutter is made in the same way, using the coral, spawn, and creamy parts of the first fish, and, when pounded, incorporating it with some of the flesh cut into minute dice and enough fresh butter to make a nice paste, flavouring and moistening it with a little lemon juice or chilli vinegar and coralline pepper. For prawn or shrimp butter use about a pint of shelled shrimps, or an equivalent amount of prawns, to 4oz. or 5oz. of fresh butter, with a good dash of cayenne or coral- line pepper (this has the prettiest colour), a little lemon juice, or chilli or anchovy vinegar, and a suspicion of mace. A very excellent butter can be made in this way, only using curry powder instead of the cayenne, though adding a dash of the latter to give piqu.*,ncy. Horseradish hutter, or Creme raifort, is made by grating down some horseradish as finely as possible, then incorporating it with creamed butter or thick whipped cream (using three tablespoonfuls of theSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 22 horseradish to 4oz. of butter or a gill of cream), and flavouring it with lemon juice or chilli vinegar and a dash of coralline pepper. Maitre cVhotel butter: For this blanch some good parsley, press it well in a clean cloth till dry (but do not squeeze or wring it), then mince it very finely, and pound it with fresh butter, a seasoning of salt and white pepper, and lemon juice, using a tablespoonful of the minced parsley and the same of strained lemon juice to each |lb. of butter. If 3oz. or 4oz. of washed, boned, and pounded anchovies, or an equivalent amount of essence of anchovy or paste, be added to this it becomes the well-known green butter. Another form, sometimes called ravigotte butter, is made by poimd- ing together a good spray each of parsley, tarragon, and cheivil, a tiny shallot, and some chives, with a full ounce of butter, a drop or two of green vegetable colouring, and either a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy or some chopped and pounded gherkin, lastly working in 3oz. or 4oz. of fresh butter and a dash of grated nutmeg. (This last is also knoAvn as beurre printanier by M. Urbain Dubois and other chefs.) Sardine butter is made in the same way by skinning, boning, and pounding eight sardines, then mixing them with two or three tablespoonfuls of blanched and minced parsley, and pounding them again together, working in gradually 4oz. of fresh butter and a dash of cayenne. Devil butter.—Put into a pan a shallot, a spray or two each of parsley, tarragon, and cheiwil, all minced fine, and a bay leaf, with enough chilli vinegar to cover them. Let it boil up, then leave till cold.SANDWICHES. 23 when jou remove the bay leaf and strain the vinegar. Pound three or four anchovies with one hard-boiled egg yolk, 4oz. butter, the herbs and shallot, and a spoonful of curry paste till quite smooth ; then sieve it, moistening it with a little of the vinegar, and adding either cayenne or a drop or two of tabasco to taste. Watercress butter.—Choose the finest and greenest leaves, well wash, drain and dry them, then mince as finely as possible and work them up with as much fresh butter as they will take, seasoning as you do so with a little salt, white pepper, and a few drops of plain or chilli vinegar, or lemon juice. Some cooks wash and mince the watercress twice before adding the butter, but if properly done once is sufficient, and gives a stronger watercress flavour to the butter. Land cress is very good in this way also. All these butters are excellent for spreading the slices of bread and butter used for containing the sliced meat, game, <fcc., varying them according to what you use, e.g., using anchovy or mustard butter for beef, anchovy or sardine butter for mutton, maitre d’hotel for fish, or ham butter for chicken, game, &c. This last is made by mincing or grating any remains of cold cooked ham, carefully removing all skin, gristle, or outside pieces; to each pint of this mince add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a dust of cayenne, and, if the ham be very lean, a tablespoonful of butter. When thoroughly pounded together press this into jars, paste paper over, cover dow^ closely, and set these jars in the bain-marie ora24 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. large stewpan to three parts of their depth in boiling water, cover down the pan, and simmer it all slowly for two hours, then lift them out, and let them stand till cold, when you remove the covers and the papers, run a little clarified butter over them, and keep in a cold, dry place. When wanted for use rub up with a little more fresh butter. Any of these butters can be used as separate sandwiches, spread on thin slices of brown or white bread, the crust removed, and the slices rolled up cigar-fashion, pinching each in the middle to keep it in shape, in which fonn they also make delicious hors d'oeuvres; or they can, as said before, be used to butter the bread as an adjunct. Meat cut for sandwiches should be sliced thinly and neatly, all skin, hard parts, or sinews carefully removed, and then be delicately seasoned with salt, pepper, &c. Sandwiches are greatly improved by the addition of sliced and pared cucumber, lettuce leaves, mustard and cress, or tomatoes (dipped in boiling water to make the peeling easier, and then stood on ice till wanted, when they must be sliced with a sharp knife, the seeds and some of the water removed and used at once); these vegetable addi- tions may be used plain, or they may be slightly seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper to taste. Sliced hard-boiled egg is excellent treated thus, and goes well with tomatoes or lettuce. Sandwiches are, needless to say, best when fresh made; if to be packed, wrap them up in lettuce leaves, and finally in grease-proof or “ butter ” paper. If they have to stand any time (say for five o’clock25 SANDWICHES. tea, or light refreshments), the best plan is to pile them neatly on a dish, cover with lettuce leaves, and lay over all a damp (but not wet) cloth, and keep in a cool place. Almost anything can be used for sandwich filhng of the utilitarian kind, but regard should be paid to the occasion for which they are made. For instance, if for travellers or for a shoot- ing lunch, do not use material which will induce thirst, such as highly salted beef or ham, too strongly pickled anchovies, &c., for thirst is not easily allayed on a journey; and on the hill or in the turnips, however near at hand a beverage may be, drinking does not conduce to straight shooting, even if cold tea, innocent of any- thing but a slice of lemon, be the modest “ quencher ” preferred. Hostesses who give thought to such details are always blessed by those whom they cater for thus thoughtfully. Whilst on the subject of sporting lunches, a word may be said for sweet sandwiches, which adapt themselves to mascu- line taste far more than women always wot of. For these may be recommended small scones sliced, and spread thickly with clotted or separated cream, either plain or flavoured with vanilla sugar, grated chocolate, golden syruj), or sieved jam, as you please ; or thinly sliced brown bread- spread with “ Guards’ sauce ” or “ Brandy butter ” (for this beat equal quantities of fresh butter and brown (cane) sugar to a light white cream, flavour to taste with lemon juice and grated nutmeg, or with a hqueur- glassful of brandy, rum, or any liqueur to taste), or any good Viennese icing may be used to spread the26 SALADS, SANDWICHES, See. bread with. Sliced Hovis bread spread with thick cream on half the slices and chocolate icing on the other half is exceedingly toothsome, if not precisely hygienic. Then there are the “ Pains fourres,” i.e., small dinner rolls (sometimes called Florentines or half- penny rolls), from which you cut ofE a piece, scoop out the inside crumb, and replace this with a delicate salpicon, or mince, of any kind of fish, flesh, or fowl, mixed with mayonnaise, tartare, or any white or brown sauce suitable, replacing the portion cut off at the last. If preferred little brioche rolls or fingers (such as are used for cofEee or cream eclairs, only making the paste with salt and a dash of coralline instead of sugar) can be substituted for the rolls. Lastly, there is the beefsteak sandwich, always popular with master or man when out shooting, &c. For this cut a good but rather thin steak from a piece of well-hung round, and either fry, broil, or stew it as you please. Have ready slices of bread and butter cut to match and trimmed neatly; then lift the meat off the fire, season with salt and freshly-ground black pepper, and place it hissing hot between the slices of bread, piling one sandwich on the other; wrap at once in butterproof paper, and eat cold. Of course, these can be modified by using delicate fillet steak, and spreading the bread with any of the savoury butters given as above, but the simple form first given is generally appreciated by all. Fancy sandwiches should be cut small, and when a variety are offered, it is well to keep each sort of a27 SANDWICHES. different shape, as, for instance, fingers of foie gras, circles of caviar, triangles of potted game, &c. In many houses little cards, with each variety neatly written on them, are slipped on to tiny skewers, and one fastened into each pile of sandwiches to declare their nature, and save the guests from taking a kind that might possibly disagree with them. Where extra daintiness is desired, the sa.ndwiches are some- times coated with white, brown, red, or other chaufroix sauce, and are then brushed over with just liquid savoury jelly to glaze them. (Do not use aspic for this purpose unless the sandwich is mixed with mayonnaise.) Or again, the little morsels are lightly buttered, and then dusted with lobster coral, coralline pepper, minced parsley, Ac., to taste, but the disadvantage of these is the butter, which renders them dangerous for delicately gloved fingers. As said before, almost all kinds of savoury butter (of which a variety have been given) can be used to spread the bread with, and either used plain, or mixed with any minced or grated ingredients to taste, and either covered sandwich fashion or rolled into little cigar-shaped rolls, for which purpose the bread must be cut very thin, a dexterous tweak being given at last to the “ waist ” of the roll to keep it in shape; or small water biscuits can be used instead of bread, generously spread with any of the savoury butters, &c., and firmly pressed together, by way of a change. 'The following, which necessarily represent but a very few of the fancy sandwiches, may serve as examples: Aberdeen Sandwich (sometimes called EolledSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 28 Sandwich).—Pound together 4oz. minced cooked chicken, 2oz. ham or tongue (freed from skin, &c.), loz. creamed butter, two tablespoonfuls of veloute sauce, and four to six tablespoonfuls of freshly- made white breadcrumbs. Dust a pastry board with breadcrumbs, lay on it a little heap of the mince, and pat it out with a palette knife dipped in hot water into oblongs 2|in, long by If in. wide. Trim the edges carefully, slip the knife under, and roll it carefully as you lift. If too moist to roll, add more crumbs ; if too dry, it will break, and must be moistened with a little more sauce. Success depends entirely on the consistency. Serve with mustard and cress. These sandwiches can be made in a variety of ways ; for instance, use game instead of chicken, with ham, espagnole or game sauce, and brown breadcrumbs; or white fish with bechamel and minced parsley, flavouring the bechamel with a drop - \ or two of essence of anchovy ; or lobster, prawns, or salmon, with cardinale or aurore sauce, using in both cases white breadcrumbs ; or, lastly, green or maitre d’hotel butter rubbed up with one hard-boiled egg yolk for every 3oz. or 4oz. of the butter, and either white or brown crumbs. Alexandra Sandwich.—Mince finely two parts chicken or game to one part tongue or ham, and one part minced cooked mushrooms or truffles. (With game, especially the brown-fleshed varieties, mush- rooms are always an improvement.) Melt loz. of glaze and a leaf or two of best gelatine in some good brown sauce, and stir into it over the fire the prepared mince, stirring it steadily till quite hot.SANDWICHES. 29 and till the gelatine and glaze are perfectly dis- solved ; then turn it all into a square mould and leave on ice till set. Have ready thinly sliced and trimmed white or brown bread and butter (accord- ing to the colour of the meat used), and lay a slice of the mince, sandwich fashion, between two slices of bread. Trim and serve garnished with water- cress. Anchovy and Egg Sandwich.—Wash, bone, and pound ten or twelve anchovies with three hard- boiled egg yolks, a spoonful of curry powder, a dust of cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, and enough creamed butter or thick cream to make a smooth paste. Spread this on very sparsely buttered bread (white or brown), and finish as usual. Anchovy and Lax Sandwich.—Beat up 2oz. of anchovy paste with 4oz. of fresh butter, seasoning it to taste with coralline pepper. Spread some thinly sliced Hovis bread with this, and strew it rather thickly with chopped lax; have ready as many slices of bread spread with thick mayonnaise instead of butter, and press the two sets together, trimming and finishing off as usual. Beef Sandwich.—Shce down some thin bread, butter it with mustard, curry, or any other savoury butter, and spread half with very thin slices of cold roast beef, covering this with a small leaf of lettuce, sliced tomatc, or cucumber; cover with the rest of the buttered bread and finish as before. Spread some thinly buttered bread with thick ho^'seradish cream (a finely grated coffee-cupfulSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 30 of horseradish, and a gill each of thick mayonnaise and thick or whipped cream, well mixed), lay a slice of beef on this, and cover with thinly sliced and seasoned tomato and more bread and butter. These may be varied by using minced olives instead of the horseradish, or mutton may be used instead of beef. Beef Sand'ivich d la Wellington.—Bone, well wash, and pound loz. of anchovies with 4oz, marinaded tunny fish, and sieve it. Mix this puree with 6oz. to 8oz. finely minced cold beef (or mutton or veal can be used), a few turned and minced olives, a spoonful or so of capers, and the hard-boiled sieved yolks of two eggs. Season to taste, and spread the mixture on brown bread and butter, press it well together, stamp it out neatly, butter the top lightly, and sprinkle with sieved hard-boiled white of egg, coralline pepper, and minced parsley. Bloater Sandwich d VImperiale.—Whip 2oz, of bloater cream, or paste, with 4oz. of creamed butter or thick cream, spread it on brown bread and butter, sprinkle it with minced parsley and tarragon, and finish off as usual. Caviar Sandwich. — Slice some bread, white or brown to taste, and spread half rather thickly with creamed butter or thick cream, seasoned with coralline pepper, and half with the fresh grey-green Astrachan caviar, seasoned with lemon juice. Press lightly together, and finish as before. Or spread the thinly buttered bread rather thickly with lemon and coralline pepper-flavoured caviar, and on top of this lay roughly minced lobster, prawns, orSANDWICHES. 31 shrimps, previously seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Finish off as usual. Celery and Walnut Sandwich.—Blanch and shred small two parts of good white celery, and blanch and chop one part of good peeled walnuts, mixing these all with some rather thick white mayonnaise (made with lemon juice and cream instead of oil and vinegar), and spread this on lightly buttered brown or white bread. Some people add a dust of coral- line and a good proportion of grated Parmesan to this. Cheese Sandwich.—Work to a paste creamed butter, freshly grated cheese, and a little anchovy paste, season with pepper and very little salt, and a drop or two of tabasco, or rather more of anchovy or chilli vinegar, spread on thin brown bread and butter, roll it up, and serve with seasoned water- cress. {Ch'uyere) Sandwich. — Spread lightly some bread and butter with French mustard, cover this with thinly sliced or grated Q-ruyere, season with coralline pepper, but no salt, cover with more bread and butter, cut into fingers and use. {Curried) Sandwich.—Chop up any odd pieces of cheese after removing the rind; for |lb. of this mince allow 3oz. of butter and a dessertspoonful of curry paste ; pound till perfectly smooth, and use. If this paste is pressed into pots and covered with liquefied butter to keep it air-tight it will keep well. Cod's Boe Sandwich.—Fry a small minced onion in |oz of butter till lightly browned ; then stir in some fresh cooked cod’s roe and liver minced.3ii SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. seasoning it all with coralline pepi^er, salt, minced parsley or olives, and a few droj)s of chilli vinegar or lemon juice; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then pound, sieve, and spread it when cold on brown bread and butter. A few drops of essence of anchovy may be added to this. Crab Sandwich {MocTc).—Steam 4oz. of herring or mackerel roes, and when cold pound it with 4oz. minced shrimps, loz. butter, loz. grated Parmesan, a seasoning of black pepper, cayenne, salt, and lemon juice, working gradually into it a table- spoonful of cream, a few drops of chilli or tarragon vinegar, and a little thick white sauce. Have freshly toasted but cold toast, split, spread the inner sides with the mixture, press very lightly together, and serve. If served on biscnit-crisp fried bread or anchovy or cheese biscuits this makes a very nice savoury. Cucumber and Tomato Sandwich.—Slice some brown and white bread, stamp out an equal number of rounds of each, spread the brown bread with green mayonnaise lightly stiffened with aspic jelly, and lay on this a slice of tomato previously seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and cover down as usual. On the white bread spread tomato mayonnaise similarly stiffened, with a slice of seasoned cucumber, finish as before, and dish these sandwiches alternately. If preferred cucumber cream sauce may be used instead of green mayon- naise. Egg Sandwich.—Boil some eggs for twelve minutes, then leave in water till quite cold, now shell andSANDWICHES. 33 slice tliem, and season tliem with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, letting them marinade for some time in this. Prepare some minced cress in the same way, then spread an equal number of slices of brown bread and butter with the seasoned eggs and the rest with the cress, press them together, trim and serve. Egg and Chutney Sandwich.—Spread some brown bread and butter with chutney, then strew this thickly with minced hard-boiled eggs, white and yolk, season to taste, and finish as usual. Cream Sandwich.—Pound to a smooth paste six hard-boiled eggs, six washed and boned anchovies, a teaspoonful of French mustard, 3oz. fresh butter, a tablespoonful each of oil and thick cream, with salt and cayenne to taste. Have ready some slices of bread and butter and spread haK thickly with the egg cream, and cover with the rest, or else dust these latter with grated Parmesan and minced celery. and Herring Sandwich.—Boil some eggs ill hard, leave in water till cold, then shell and slice them, seasoning as for egg sandwich. Beat some fresh butter to a cream and work into it half its quantity of herring marinaded in white wine, well drained and pounded to a smooth paste. Spread the bread with this mixture, and finish off with the eggs as in the egg sandwich recipe. Fish Sandwich.—These can be made in a variety of ways, but the method is much the same in all. Cut thin slices of bread and butter (butter is required in sandwiches to ensure proper adhesion between the D34 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. bits of bread) and spread these with any form of thick mayonnaise, plain, tartare, verte, tomato, &c., according to the fish you use, then lay on half small flakes of fish, salmon, sole, lobster, &c., and thin slices of cucumber on the rest of the bread, now press these lightly together, trim and serve garnished with watercress. Or: pound the remains of any cold fish, moistening it with a little cream or creamed butter, and seasoning pretty highly with coralhne pepper and a drop or two of essence of anchovy (mind not to overdo this). Have ready bread and butter and spread half with the fish puree, and the rest as before with mayonnaise of any kind, laying again on this a slice of cucumber, tomato, lettuce, or watercress, as you please, press the two slices together, and trim and finish as before. It is obvious that any kind of meat pounded may be used in the same way, while, if liked, the mayonnaise may be replaced by any sauce to taste, reduced by rapid boiling with a leaf or two of leaf gelatine to give it cohesion, or if liked mayonnaise collee may be used. (This is made by whisking very gradually a gill of oil into half a pint of just liquid aspic as the latter is beginning to set, adding a little of any flavoured vinegar to taste, with a dust of finely minced fines Tierhes and a tablespoonful of % cream at the last). Foie Gras Sandwich,.—Butter the bread rather sparsely, and lay on half the bread rather thick slices of plain foie gras truff^ cover with the rest of the bread. If pdte is used, spread it on the thinly buttered bread.SANDWICHES. 35 George Sandwich.—Stamp out rounds of brown or white bread and butter, and sj)read these with white mayonnaise (i.e., mayonnaise made with egg white, lemon juice, and cream, instead of oil, vinegar, and egg yolk), and cover this with shredded chicken and ham or tongue, dusting this again with minced olives, then cover with the rest of the bread, and finish off as usual. Greville Sandwich.—Stamp out the bread and butter as in the j)receding recipe, and spread these rounds with pounded or minced game mixed with capers and tiny fillets of anchovy; press them together, and then mask half with broWn and half with white chaufroix and serve when set, garnished with watercress. This decoration can manifestly be applied to all small sandwiches, as can also the practice of brushing the upper side with just liquid aspic and dusting it with lobster coral, coralline pepper, minced parsley, olives, &c., setting these with a drop or two more of aspic jelly. Lobster Sandwich.—Prepare some red or lobster butter by crushing the shell and feelers of a cooked lobster with an ounce or two of butter, till you get it all to a fine paste, adding gradually the coral if at hand, with a good seasoning of salt and coralline pepper, and gradually 2oz. more of butter. Then stir this over a slow fire till it reddens and clears, when you rub it through a fine hair sieve into iced water, on the surface of which it hardens. Now skim it off, melt it again in a warm basin, and work into it four more ounces of fresh butter, and leave it in a cold larder till firm and well coloured. This D 2SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 36 is tlie French method of making heurre rouge (which can also be made with prawn, shrimp, or crayfish shells in the same way), but there is a somewhat unconscientious tendency with many cooks to replace this troublesome process by using simply coralhne butter, which, as far as appearance goes, betrays very little difference. Now chop ujd the flesh of the lobster, seasoning it to taste with salt, a few drops of lemon juice or chilli vinegar, mixing it with some mayonnaise, and spread this mixture on brown bread, previously spread with the red butter, and finish off as usual. Shrimps, prawns, or indeed any fish can be used thus. Mirabeau Sandwich.—Mince lightly together half a pint of picked shrimps, six or eight bearded oysters, five or six thinly sliced cooked truffles, and two- thirds of a pint of cold cooked potatoes cut into tiny dice, and season this all with pepper, salt, and a little oil and lemon juice, and leave on ice till wanted. Then spread some brown bread rather thickly with mayonnaise, and spread half with the above mixture, covering these slices in the usual way. Trim and serve garnished with mustard and cress. Little rolls filled with this mixture are excellent, whilst little boat-shaped moulds of crisp anchovy pastry thus filled make a dehcious savoury under the I names of Petits pains fourres d la Mirabeau or Canots d la Mirabeau. New York Sandwich.—Into half a jjint of very rich mayonnaise work gradually twenty-four oysters ; bearded and minced, and seasoned with their own v liquor, a little lemon juice, and some coralline Tr”'37 SANDWICHES. pepper, Now slice down some one-day old French rolls, and butter these sparingly; then spread with the above on half, covering down with the rest. Northern Sandwich.—Pick the flesh from a cold cooked Finnon haddock, mince it, then pound it with one-third its bulk of fresh butter and quarter its bulk of anchovy paste. Stir this all over the fire, seasoning it to taste with salt, pepper, and minced parsley till blended, then leave till cold. Lightly toast some bread and split it, butter the inner side, spread with the cold haddock mjixture, and finish off as usual. Olive Sandivich.—Stone and mince the contents of a bottle of French olives, season with white pepper, pound to a smooth paste, and spread this on some bread and butter, covering it with more plain bread and butter; or spread the remaining slices with potted meat of any kind worked up with cream or creamed butter and press together. Pichle Sandwich.—Slice some pickles lengthways and spread bread and butter with them, lay over this thin slices of cold cooked veal or pork, and cover with plain bread and butter as usual. Pompadour Sandivich.—^E-ub up some nice potted game, foie gras, &c., with whipped cream or creamed butter, season to taste, and spread on rounds of white bread and butter, press together, and mask each sandwich differently with red, white, yellow, or green mayonnaise aspic. Prince George’s Sandwich.—Mince together finely any cold game with a truffle or two, or some cookedSALADg, SANDWICHES, &c, S8 mushrooms, and a few dice of jDate de foie gras, mixing it all with very rich and much reduced game or salmi sauce, and spread on sliced and buttered Vienna bread and finish off as usual. Prince of Wales’s Sandwich.—Mince not too finely some ham, filleted anchovies, truffles and gherkins, seasoning them all with oil, vinegar, &c. Scoop the crumb from some tiny rolls, spread these inside with rich mayonnaise, fill with the mix- tm*e, and replace the piece cut off, pressing it in well. Princess Sandwich,—Pound together to a smooth paste two parts cold cooked chicken and one part ham or tongue with hard-boiled yolk of egg, grated Parmesan, tarragon vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper, tasting it as you pound to get it right. Spread this on white bread and butter, jDress well together, and butter the top lightly, or brush it over with liquid asj^ic, and pile on the top a little caviar or minced olives, julienne strips of crisp celery, egg white cut to match, &c. Sardine Sandwich.—Wash, wipe, and fillet some good sardines, and season to taste with coralliae pepper. Have ready some fingers of brown bread and butter, and lav a seasoned sardine on half and cover the other half with sliced tomato, press well together, and finish as usual. Sardine Sandwich d la Musset.—Skin, wipe, and bone some sardines, pounding them all to a smooth paste, with a little butter, coralline’ pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready some thin bread and butter, spread with this mixture, then roll39 SANDWICHES. up the sandwiches, pinching them together lightly in the centre to keep their shape, and serve garnished with picked watercress, dusted with oil, pepper, salt, and vinegar. Savoury Sandwich.—Mince together ham, tongue, or corned beef with fat ham, using three parts lean to one of fat, and pound it all to a smooth paste, with a teaspoonful of mustard flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and a little water dashed with Worcester sauce; then work into it 2oz. or 3oz. fresh creamed butter, and use for spreading the sandwiches. Shooting Sandwich.—Toast neatly trimmed slices of bread on both sides, then split and butter half of them with plain or savoury butter, and spread the rest with a stiff tartare sauce, to which you have added some French mustard (moutarde de Maille). Cover the buttered pieces with thin slices of meat or game, and press the rest of the bread on this. This sandwich appears in a variety of shapes. For instance, if plain butter and remoulade, with shred celery and sliced pheasant or partridge is used, it is called Sandwich d la Gladstone. If cold roast duck and either olive mayonnaise or aspic-stiffened bigarade sauce is used it is called Sandwich a la bigarade or aux olives. Whilst, filled with grouse or any brown game slices and a very stiff tartare, it is known as Milan Sandwich. Spanish Sandwich.—Spread some thin slices of brown or Hovis bread with green butter or panah, sprinkle this with chopped hard-boiled egg yolk, and cover with thin, small fillets of cold, cooked chicken and tongue, cover with other slices of bread andSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 40 blitter, pressing them well together and stamping them out in rounds. Brush the tops over with either just liquid aspic or liquefied butter, and sprinkle it thickly with minced parsley, capers, coralline pepper and minced white of egg, and serve garnished with seasoned watercress.CHAPTEE III. HOES H’OEUYEE. These little accessories to tlie menu are familiar to all who have travelled much, and they are now still further familiarised by the present fashion of restaurant dinners, which is so marked a feature of modern English social life. Whether, however, they will become really acclimatised is another question, for their raison d'etre depends on the method of life; and, speaking generally, the ordinarily out-of-door and more or less athletic life of the average Britisher renders any whet to the appetite (which is after all the origin of the Erench hors d’oeuvre and its Eussian equivalent, the zahusha') not so necessary as it may be in other countries, where climate, manners, &c., have combined to bring about different con- ditions of life. Moreover, the English affection for the after-dinner “ savoury,” so marked a feature in English bills of fare, renders the appearance of the hors d’oeuvre at the beginning of the meal some- what superfluous. An Englishman seldom needs an indtement to eat, though he found a whet and a clearer-of-the-palate necessary in the days whenSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 42 after-dinner hard drinking was the rule, and has kept up the tradition of the savoury, even though we may thankfully admit that the drinking is no longer so extensive or so universal. The zakusha differs from the hors d’oeuvre from the fact that it is usually served in another room from the dining-room, various dishes being arranged on a side table or buffet, with the inevitable accom- paniment of spirits or liqueur; whereas the hors d’oeuvre is seiwed in the dining-room, being usually either handed round as soon as the guests are seated, or served in separate portions, one of which is placed ready for each guest when they enter. France acknowledges two kinds of hors d’oeuvres, the hot and the cold, The former was, and is, always served after the soup, and really forms a kind of entree, the difference between these two depending, according to M. Urbain Dubois, on the fact that the hot hors d’oeuvre should always be served dry, unaccompanied by either sauce or garnish, for, as he observes, “ A garnished and sauced hors d’ceuvre becomes an entree; the name of the former shows clearly their inherent lightness, and a studied simplicity should in every case be their distinctive characteristic.’' Accordingly, in private families and on ordinary occasions, the hors d’ceuvre generally consists of daintily arranged sliced sausage, smoked ham (cooked or raw), sardines, anchovies, caviar, pickled tunnyfish, salted or smoked herring, smoked salmon (cooked or raw), pickled oysters, olives (stuffed or plain), seasoned artichoke bottoms, &c., all care- fully and very thinly sliced, and dished in longHORS D’CEUVRE. 43 boat-shaped dishes, whence the French name of bateaux de whatever hors d’oeuvre is served. Whether hors d’oeuvre of only one or of many kinds are served at the commencement of each meal is purely a matter of taste. Herring, whether kippered, pickled, salted, or in the shape of bloaters, should always be boned and filleted, and if very dry and highly salted or smoked, are improved by soaking for a little time in milk or milk and water. Pickled herring are often too salt to be eaten comfortably when lifted from their pickle or tin. In this case take them out a few days before they are wanted, trim them neatly, and soak them for five or six hours in milk and water, then dry them carefully on a clean cloth, arrange them in a piedish with a bay leaf or two, some peppercorns, green tarragon, capers, and minced onion, pour over this sufiicient vinegar and water to cover it all thoroughly, and let them stand in this till wanted. To serve them, lift out the fish and cut them across right through; dish them by putting together the pieces neatly back into shape, and serve either sprinkled with a little very good fresh oil, or some of the marinade finely minced. This method is also applicable to pilchards, sardines,, smoked sprats, &c., of course diminishing the time proportionately. Sardines, anchovies, and all fish pickled in oil,, should always be carefully cleansed from all trace of the preserving oil, and are usually served boned and filleted, and garnished with capers, minced parsley, and a sprinkling of good fresh oil. The44 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. best way to cleanse tbe first two fisb is to take them from the bottle or tin and arrange them separately side by side, without touching, in a dish, then pour orer them sufficient hot water to rinse them well, tilting the dish slightly to let the water run off at the bottom, carrying with it any taint of the fishy liquid in which they were preserved; then wipe carefully in a clean cloth, removing all scales, skin, and bone, and use, sprinkling them with fresh oil, but never with that contained in the bottle or tin. Smoked salmon, tunny, reindeer, or other tongue, sausages, &c., are always sliced very thinly, and served en couronne, or in a straight line, the slices overlapj)ing, with a little fresh parsley round, Olives (stuffed or plain), cucumbers, radishes, fresh figs, and melons of all kinds are often abroad seiwed as hors d’oeuvre. The melon is sliced down into neat portions, the seeds, &c., removed, and a knife slipped round the slice to cut the flesh loose from the skin without taking the latter away. Sugar, salt, pepper, and ground ginger are all served with it. The figs are served plain, the red-fleshed kind being the best for this purpose. For the cucumbers, choose small ones, before the seeds are fully formed, peel, slice them thinly, sprinkle with salt, let them stand a little to drain, and serve sprinkled with white pepper, salt, oil, vinegar, and minced parsley or fennel. If individual hors d’oeuvre are preferred, the above can be dished in tiny boat-shaped cases, made with ordinaiy fried bread, cut to shape and cooked till biscuit-crisp45 HORS D’CEUVRE. (always set them, when finished, for a minute or two in the oven to dry and crisp them thoroughly) ; or in cases made with short, anchovy, devilled, or other paste, thus: Choose trimmings of short or puff paste, or prepare any of the following—Anchovy Paste: Rub 2oz. of fine flour with f oz. of fresh butter, a good saltspoonful of essence of anchovy, and, if liked, a drop or two of carmine (do not overdo this), with a dust of coralline pepper, the same of baking powder, and half an egg; mix it with a teaspoonful of cold water, roll out thinly and use.—Cheese Paste : Take 4oz. of puff pastry trimmings, roll them out thinly, and dust with 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese (as if it were flour) and a good dust of coralline pepper, rolling it out again after folding it, and use. A version of this paste may be made by using either curry powder or powdered Bon3bay duck instead of the grated Parmesan, for those who like very pronounced tastes.—Devilled Paste is made by any of the preceding recipes, a strong flavouring of cayenne and a droj) or two of tabasco being added in the mixing. Roll out either of the above pretty thinly, and with it line either croustade, or boat moulds, or tiny patty pans, pricking the paste well with a fork to prevent blisters, trim the edges, lay in each a well-buttered paper, fill up with rice, &c., and bake in a moderate oven till nicely coloured ; then remove the paper, rice, &c., and set the cases in the oven again to get quite crisp ; these can be stored in airtight tins. Failing these, use tne little china cases or the small plated stewpans sold for the purpose. These little cases46 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. can be filled with any of the preceding, or with miniature salads of capers, sliced cucumber, tomato, :anchovy fillets, flaked, smoked, or fresh fish, shrimps, &c,, mixed with oil and vinegar or mayonnaise to taste. A pretty variant of the popular salade ■d'anchois can be made by filleting some anchovies, arranging two fillets crosswise in each case, putting little heaps of minced egg, white and yolk, parsley, .and coralline pepper in between, seasoning it all with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Or soak two salted herrings with roes, in milk and water as above, then fillet them, and rub the roes through a sieve; now peel, core, and mince a sour apple, mixing this mince with the sieved roe. Have ready some buttered slices of bread, spread them with the mince, cover half of these with the fillets of fish, freed from all skin, &c., and cover with the rest of the prepared slices. Press well together and trim neatly. Or, fill any of these cases with minced gherkin, whole capers, minced tarragon, and either prawns or shrimps, or, if liked, lobster. Mix this all with a spoonful or so of mayonnaise, pile it up, and .serve garnished with chopped aspic. This can be varied to taste. Besides these, small neatly made sandwiches :spread with bloater or any kind of paste, &c., . or fingers of biscuit-crisp fried bread can be used in the same way, and, indeed, many of the recipes given amongst the savouries can be utilised for hors •d’oeuvre, only remember M. U. Dubois’s advice, and -do not over-elaborate your hors d’ceuvre. A few individual recipes may be given to explainHORS D’CEUVRE. 47 tlieir nature, but any intelligent cook can evolve plenty for herself. The first, and indeed, the only purely English hors d’ceuvre are oysters, carefully opened, served in the deep half shell, four to six for each guest, thin shces of delicate brown bread and butter, quartered lemon, and coralline pepper being handed round with them, or served on a plate made for the purpose. Huitres Nature.—Roll out thinly some anchovy paste, and dust generously with coralline pepper, or add a drop or two of tabasco to the paste, cut it into squares, prick it, and bake till crisp. When cold place on each a slice of peeled cucumber, the same of lemon (removing all pith, peel, and pips), and lastly a bearded oyster; season lightly with lemon juice and a tiny dust of cayenne pepper, and serve two or three to each guest. Huttree au Caviar.—Stamp out rounds of Hovis bread (or use if preferred fried croutes), place on each a slice of tomato, then a little heap of caviar, and on this a bearded oyster; season with lemon juice and coralline pepper and serve. Caviar a la Mignonne.—Stir together in a basin two tablespoonfuls of best salad oil, one table- spoonful of strained lemon juice, and the contents of a small pot of caviar; cut a slice off six small rich-coloured ripe tomatoes, and remove all the pulp with a spoon; season the insides of these tomatoes with lemon juice, salad oil, and a httle coralline pepper, and stand them on ice till wanted. Mean- while chop up the pulp, adding another tomato ifSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 48 needed, with a hard-boiled egg cut into dice, and mix this carefully with the caviar, &c., and fill up the tomatoes with the mixture, piling it up well in the centre, and laying either a shelled and seasoned prawn or a well washed and boned anchovy fillet, curled up, on the top of all; dust with coralline pepper and minced parsley, and serve. Groutes au Caviar.—Fry some small round croutes, and whilst hot dust with minced chives and coralline pepper, then when cold pile up with caviar pre- viously mixed with a few drops of good oil, lemon juice, and coralline pepper. The large-berried Astrachan caviar is best for hors d’oeuvre, but as this must be used quite fresh, the tinned dark green caviar is most generally used. This occasionally gets dry, and in consequence a trifle tasteless. In this case, beat it up with enough oil to moisten it, season with lemon juice, coralline pepper, and a little very finely minced shallot, and serve as before. Anchois a VImperials.—These are much like the French bateaux d’anchois. Have ready some cold biscuit-crisp square croutons, lay across each diagon- ally four anchovy fillets, sprinkle with oil, lemon juice, and coralline pepper, and fill the angles thus formed alternately with hard-boiled and minced yolk and white of egg, minced scarlet chillies, and minced olives, or, failing these, parsley. Tartelettes a la Madame.—Have ready some tiny biscuit-crisp boat shapes of anchovy pastry, and pile these up with cold boiled and minced potato (choose new or waxy ones), minced anchovy, capers,49 HORS D’GEUYRE. and cucumber peas (^.e., cucumber cut to shape with a vegetable cutter), mixed well with mayonnaise sauce. Croutes il la Burlington.—Wash, bone, and fillet some anchovies, season each fillet with oil and vinegar, and season some slices of hard-boiled egg in the same way. Place one of these on a round of biscuit-crisp fried bread, the anchovy fillets rolled in the centre, and serve garnished with seasoned lettuce, choosing the small inner leaves of a nice cabbage lettuce. # ECHAPTEE IV. SAVOURIES. The taste for “ savouries,” as the little dishes that nowadays end almost all well-arranged dinner menus are called, is by no means so novel as some may fancy, and has the further merit (if merit it be) of being “ so British, quite British you know! ” It dates back from the old hard-drinking days, and represents the appetisers taken by men at the end of a repast to clear their palates for the due consump- tion of the wine which in those days was such an integral part of the meal. Pickled, kippered, or smoked herring, anchovies, “ sardinias,” “ kaviar,” hotargo (the pressed roe of the Mediterranean mullet), &c., were as popular a couple of centuries ago as they are to the fashionable Englishman of to-day, though the latter has altered the spelling of their names in many cases. Grilled and devilled bones, anchovy toasts, and cheese toasted, stewed, or baked, were the contemporaries of the previously mentioned savouries, and enjoyed a reputation that has not faded even yet. Such dainty trifles form a great addition, and often make all the difference to51 SAVOURIES. a simple menu. As a matter of fact, a careful and capable cook should be able to present a different savoury for every day of the year without materially, if at all, increasing the housekeeping books, if she will take a little pains in collecting her material. The bones sent in weekly by most careful mistresses for the benefit of the stock-pot will often supply marrow enough for a delicate little dish of marrow toast; the last layer of an opened tin of sardines, too few to reappear at the breakfast table, will provide sardines d la diable; the remains of last night’s cauliflower may make a second appearance as choujleur au gratin; whilst the rest of the shrimp sauce which accompanied the previous day’s dory, will afford material for a pretty little dish of Gaisses d la Normande, if reheated, seasoned with some lemon juice and cayenne, curry powder or paste, and poured boiling hot into tiny caisses or canots of fried bread. In short, all sorts of odds and ends can be used up for this part of the dinner, and round off the menu daintily at little or no cost. But, of course, this is only to be accomplished by the cook and the mistress who will devote thought and a minimum of trouble to the contents of their larder; yet, as they are intrinsically anything but expensive either in cost, time, or labour, it might be almost reckoned a disgrace to the cook who does not produce them in variety. Anchovies and sardines, of course, occur first to one’s mind on these occasions. So try Canapes d’A.nchois.—Have ready some neat fin- gers of fried or toasted bread (liberally buttering E 2SALADS,, SANDWICHES, &c. 52 this latter), dust these with miuced parslev and chives (or finely minced shallot), and lay on each a well-washed and boned anchovy, seasoned with freshly ground black pepper and a little lemon juice, place a morsel of butter or a little good salad oil on each, and set in the oven till hot. Orlys d’Anchois.—Wash and bone the anchovies, dry them, and let them marinade for an hour in a spoonful of salad oil, a dust of coralline pepper, and some minced parsley; then lift them out, dip each separately in some good frying batter, and fry at once in hot fat for six to eight minutes till crisp and nicely coloured, and serve on a napkin dusted with coralline pepper and minced parsley. Canapes d'Anchois d VIndienne.—Sju’ead either fried or toasted bread rather thickly with curry butter, place an anchovy well washed and boned on each, dust liberally with lemon juice and coralline or Nepal pepper, and serve as hot as you can make them. Canapes d’Anchois d la Diahle.—Rub up sufficient butter to spread the requisite number of fried fingers with cayenne pepper, a few drops of lemon juice, and a drop or two of tabasco, brush the well washed and boned anchovies over with oil or liquefied butter, and broil them for a minute or so till crisp; dust with coralline pepper, place one on each finger of bread, and serve as hot as fire and pepper can make them. Croutes d’Anchois aux Olives are piled uj) pyramidi- cally with anchovy paste, lightly mixed with stiffly whipped cream, seasoned with coralline pepper.SAVOURIES. 53 piled ou tlie biscuit-crisp croutons, an olive stuffed or farced with an anchovy fillet, and a caper crowning the little pile. Canapes cVAnchois aux (Eufs have square croutons lightly spread with anchovy or curry butter, and then garnished with minced anchovies, capers, or chopped olives, and sieved yolk and white of hard- boiled eggs arranged across in quarters separately. Canapes d’Anchois d la Colmar are small, round, or square croutons of fried bread, arranged with a kind of trellis of washed and boned anchovy fillets, a tiny mould of anchovy cream in the centre of each, with sieved hard-boiled egg piled round it. For the anchovy cream wash and bone three or four anchovies, and pound them with a hard-boiled egg yolk, a dessertspoonful of salad oil, and a dust of coralline pepper. When this is all smooth add to it a tablespoouful of just liquid aspic, then mix it with half a gill of stiffiy whipped cream and set it on ice till wanted, when you pile it rockily in the centre of the croutes. Biscuits d’Anchois d la Boy ale.—For these have ready some anchovy biscuit paste ; roll it out thinly, stamp it out with a small round cutter ; prick these rounds with a fork, and bake till crisp. When cold spread half of these biscuits with anchovy butter, cover over sandwich fashion with the rest, pressing them lightly together, and serve garnished with parsley or watercress seasoned. These biscuits can be spread with any fancy butter, or puree of fish, fiesh, or fowl to taste, only, of course, alter- ing the name. Pounded cheese, highly flavouredSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 54 with Nepal pepper or Searcy salt, makes a capital filling also. Anchovy Straws {Failles d'Anchois).—Prepare some anchovy or cheese pastry (as preferred) according to the recipe, roll it out thin, cut it into narrow strips, lay a fillet of washed and boned anchovy on each, pressing or twisting it into the paste, and bake till crisp. Sometimes these are made of the anchovy pastry only, seasoned rather highly with cayenne or coralline pepper, when they are known as failles d’anchois d la diable; or cut thin fingers of the paste, spread half with anchovy paste, cover sand- wich fashion with the rest of the fingers, bake till crisp, and serve as sandwichs d'anchois. Bloater or kipper fillets may be used in the same way, when they are known as “bloater straws,” pailles d la Yarmouth or a VEcossaise, according to the fish. Tartelettes or Talmouses d'Anchois.—Line little l^atty pans or boat-shaped tins with anchovy pastry, prick all over, and bake till quite crisp, then fill with the anchovy cream previously given. Biscuits d'Anchois.—Roll out some anchovy pastry, stamp it out in squares or rounds, prick all over, and bake till crisp. Spread lightly with anchovy paste, and pile up by means of a bag and pipe with either whipped cream or egg-white meringue, flavoured with a little essence of anchovy and cayenne; dust with minced parsley, and serve. Bidblotins d'Anchois {Devils on Horseback).—Wash, bone, and fillet some anchovies, season each with cayenne and black pepper, with (or without) an atom of mustard butter, and wrap each in a very thin55 SAVOURIES. slice of fat bacon, skewering them with big pins; lay each on a fried crouton dusted with freshly ground black pepper and some minced parsley and chives, and bake seven or eight minutes in the oven till the bacon is just cooked, remove the pins, and serve very hot. (Sardines are equally good this way.) Rissolettes d’ Anchois.—Roll out some trimmings of puff paste (or cheese pastry) very thin, and .stamp it out in little rounds. Have ready four or five anchovies previously well washed in scalding water, dry, bone, and fillet them, a.nd pound with loz. or so of butter and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs; sieve this mixture, moisten with a little good stock or glaze, season to taste with coralline pepper, and place a small teaspoonful of this on each round of paste; wet the edges of the rounds, and fold them over into a crescent shape, pinching them well together, then fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown, drain, and serve hot dusted with freshly grated Parmesan cheese and a little coralline pepper. If you substitute a cube of Q-ruyere, or any other nice cheese seasoned with coralline pepper and a drop or two of chilli vinegar, for the anchovy mixture, and finish as before, this is known as rissolettes d la Gruyere, &c., according to the cheese used. Aigrettes d’Anchois.—Wash, bone, and fillet the anchovies, and lay them for an hour or two in a spoonful or so of oil and vinegar, with a dust of cayenne ; then lift them out, dip in a light batter, and fry in hot fat till of a pretty golden tint, drainSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 56 well, and serve dusted with minced parsley and coralline pepper. Cheese treated in the same way is excellent. Allumettes d'Anchois.—Roll out about 4oz. of putt’ pastry trimmings and dust this with 2oz. of Bombay duck (previously dried in the oven for four or five minutes till crisp enough to powder and use when cold), cut into very thin strijjs; have ready some washed and filleted anchovies and tAvist a strip of the paste round each, keeping the roll as thin as possible, and bake till quite crisp. Anchois cl la JDauphine.—Line some tiny patty tins with anchovy pastry, prick, and bake till crisp. When cold fill them with anchovy cream and place on each a plover’s egg, and garnish with tiny sj>rays of chervil. Anchois d la Bedford,—Pound together four washed and boned anchovies, one hard-boiled egg yolk, a small piece of butter, and a dust of cayenne. Pile this up en pyramide on little squares of fried bread, placing two or three capers on the apex. A7ichois d la Madras.—Mix together, over the fire, or in a chafing dish, loz. of butter, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of sherry, and rather more of Burgess’s essence of anchovy. Lay into this fingers of hot and thickly buttered toast, and let it soak till thoroughly saturated, but not P^PPy> and serve very hot. Anchois aux Olives d la Madras.—Pound to a smooth paste loz. fresh butter, ^oz. of anchovy paste (or four washed and boned anchovies), not quite a teaspoonful of Madras chutney, with saltSAVOURIES. 57 and. pepjDer to taste. Have ready some square biscuits made with Bombay duck pastry, or devil pastry, as preferred, and spread these thickly with the mixture, smoothing them with a warm, wet knife ; then lay on each a small round of hard-boiled egg white, and place on this a turned olive farced with whipped cream seasoned with coralline pepper. Anchois en Canots a la Mayonnaise.—Line some little boat moulds with either puff:, cheese, or anchovy pastry, as you please; prick, and bake till crisp. Mince together five or six anchovies (washed and boned), one hard-boiled egg, three or four stoned olives, a small teaspoonful of capers, add enough good mayonnaise (tartare, verte, tomato, Ac.) sauce to mix it, pile up pretty high in the canots, and serve. Anchois a la Moderne.—Wash, split, and bone some good anchovies, and roll up each half, brushing each over with strong aspic to set it. Spread, some squares of fried bread or anchovy biscuits with watercress butter, place an anchovy fillet on each, curling round this a prawn split in half lengthways, and seasoned with oil and vinegar, with a tiny rose of anchovy cream, whipped cream, or creamed butter -flavoured with anchovy and coralline jDepper, on top of the rolled fillets. It must be remembered that these recipes are really means of using up scraps. For instance, for eight of these you need only four anchovies, four j^rawns, any scrap of asj)ic jelly, &c. It is on utilising these sorts of scraps, individually useless, that the success and economy of savouries depends.SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 58 ^ Anchois (i VEcossaiae (Scotch Woodcock).—Have ready some squares of hot buttered toast, and spread these with anchovy paste, or pounded fresh ancho- vies, or mix essence of anchovy with the butter used in buttering. Make a custard with a gill of cream, or milk, and the yolks of two eggs, seasoned with coralline pepper; pour this when thick over the toast, and serve very hot. Anchois en Caviare.—Wash, bone, and pound some anchovies till smooth, with dried parsley, a shallot, salt, lemon juice, coralline pepper, and enough good salad oil to make the consistency right. Make it up in pats, or balls, and leave on ice till wanted. Send hot dry toast to table with it. Anchois d la Russe (Cans).—Pound to a smooth paste a shallot (or a clove of garlic, or a propor- tionate amount of chives), four washed and boned anchovies, cheese to taste, and a small piece of butter. Then add a teaspoonful of mustard, with \ cayenne and salt to taste. Press into a mould, and turn out when wanted. Serve on, or with, hot dry toast. Anchois d VIndienne (Panah).—Pound to a smooth paste four washed and boned anchovies (or sardines), with 3oz. or 4oz. of butter, a little finely minced parsley, a drop or two of lemon juice, and cayenne to taste. Mould it, set it on ice, turn out when wanted, and serve with hot dry toast. All these ^ last three recipes require attention in the mixing, as they depend on individual taste for their success. -I Anchois d la Creme Pomel.—Whip up a gill of ^ cream very stiffly with a Pomel (cream) cheese, and J59 SAVOURIES. force this out on to an anchovy or cheese biscuit, or square, fried croutons; place a fillet of anchovy bottled in oil, with some capers on the top, and serve with a light dust of coralline pepper. Anchovy Toast.—Wash, bone, and mince coarsely five or six anchovies, and alber dissolving a little butter in a pan lay in the minced fish with a good seasoning of freshly ground black pepper and a small teaspoonful of minced parsley and chives, or a little very finely minced shallot, and last the yolk of an egg; stir it all over the fire till nicely blended, then pour it very hot on to fingers of buttered toast, and serve at once. Croutes d'Anchois d la Battenberg.—Have ready some delicately fried rounds of bread, place on each one or more curled-up fillets of anchovy preserved in oil, then mask it all with whipped cream flavoured with essence of anchovy and coralline pepper. Eclairs d^Anchois.—Prepare some goodchou paste and force it out with a bag and a half-inch pij)e in little eclairs 3|in. long; brush these over with beaten egg, and bake till nicely coloured and well risen, in a moderate oven. When cold slit down the side and fill each with whipped cream strongly flavoured with essence of anchovy and coralline pepper, and serve. These eclairs can be filled with any savoury cream, cheese, ham, game, &c., to taste, of course varying the name in each instance. Biscuits cVAnchois d la Biable.—Mince together a tablespoonful of minced ham, a dessertspoonful of capers, and the same of washed and boned anchovies, and stir it all over the fire till thick, with one-third60 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. of a i^iut of good espagnole and a spoonful or two of sherry. Butter some small water biscuits thickly, dust them generously with pepi^er, black and red, and broil them, then pile a spoonful of the mixture on each, dust with coralline i^ei^per and freshly grated Parmesan cheese, and serve very hot. Anchois en Surprise.—Cut a round off ten or twelve tiny dinner rolls (the halfpenny size), and scoop out all the crumb. Meanwhile mix together three finely chopped, hard-boiled eggs, the well-washed and boned fillets of ten or twelve anchovies, a teaspoonful each of minced tarragon, chives, and chervil, three good spoonfuls of salad oil, and a liberal seasoning of coralline pepper. When this is all well mixed, fill the rolls with it, replace the pieces cut off, pressing them well home, and serve. If you have aspic handy, fasten on these tops with a little liquid aspic, brushing them well over with the same, and dust thickly with minced parsley and coralline pepper. Sardines d la Maitre d’hotel.—First cleanse the fish thus : Lift them out singly on to a dish, tip the dish lightly, and pour over the sardines enough hot water to rinse them well, letting this drain off the dish at the bottom; then wipe the sardines dry, removing the skin as you wipe them. (All tinned fish is improved by this treatment.) Lay the fish on fingers of hot buttered toast, and leave them in the oven till hot. Meanwhile stir into a gill of good white sauce a dessertspoonful each of minced parsley and chives (or shallot), and let it all boil up, then add a spoonful of lemon juice or of chilli vinegartU SAVOURIES. (the size of this spoon is a matter of taste), and a good dust of coralline pepper, pour it over the sardine toast, and serve very hot. Sardines aux Olives.—Cleanse the fish as before, arrange each on a fried finger crouton, seasoned with freshly ground black pepper and a little salt; then when very hot dust thickly with grated Parmesan cheese, and pour over each finger a little melted glaze in which you have stiri'ed some minced olives, and serve. Sardines Curried.—Prepare the fish as before, and place each on a finger of hot toast spread with curry butter, and serve covered with the following: Fry a teaspoonful each of curry powder and flour in oil with a finelv minced shallot, and when fried dilute with a little stock, and cook till thick. Now add a seasoning of lemon juice and coralline pepper, pour over the fish, and serve very hot. Sardines Devilled.—Cleanse and bone the fish, and spread each with mustard seasoned with salt, coralline pepper, and lemon juice; let it stand for half an hour, then fry in oil, and serve very hot and crisp on fried croiitons dusted with cayenne and minced chives. Cleanse the fish as before, lift them on a well-buttered fireproof dish, strew with minced capers, chervil, parsley, and, if liked, chives; set the dish in the oven, and at the same time crisp some finger croutons of fried bread in the oven; when both are hot, lift a sardine on to each crouton, brush over with warm glaze, and serve. Some cooks dust the fish with black, white, and red pepper.SALADS, SAiVDWJCHES, &c. 62 Sardine Egge. — Halve' four hard-boiled eggs lengthways, remove the yolks and pound these with four cleansed and l)one<l sardines, a dessert- spoonful of minced parsley, loz, of butter, and salt and pepper to tasle. When quite smooth, fill up the egg whites with this mixture, rounding it dome-fashion with a hot wet knife, and serve garnished with either small cress or picked water- cress, seasoned with oil and vinegar. These eggs can be varied according to the filling. For instance, if the hard-boiled egg yolk is mixed with 2oz. or 3oz. of maitre d’hotel butter, they are known as oeufs d la Benedictine; if mixed with ham butter, as oeufs au jambon; with watercress butter, as oeufs d la Gasconne; with shrimp paste, as oeufs d la Normande, and so on. In short any nice farce or mince to taste can be served in this way. Sardines en Fritot.—Cleanst.' and dry the fish well, roll lightly in flour, or dip them in good frying batter as you choose, and fry till j^erfectly crisp. Drain and seiwe very hot on fingers of fried bread dusted with grated Parmesan and coralline pepper. Sardine Omelet.—Make a savoury omelet in the usual way, frying it, however, in two tablespoonfuls of oil instead of butter, and when this is ready for dishing lay in the sardine filling, season this with a little lemon juice, or chilli vinegar, and dish at once. For the filling (fora three or four egg omelet) wash and bone two or three sardines, cut them into half inch lengths and dust lightly with coral- line pepper, and if liked a little grated Parmesan cheese.63 SAVOURIES. Sardines en Papillotes.—Cleanse the fish as for devilled sardines, and lay each in a heart-shaped piece of white paper (previously well oiled), with a teaspoonful of d’Uxelles mince (mushrooms, jjarsley, chives, &c., minced and fried in butter or oil), and a little cold and thick brown sauce (espagnole for choice); roll up the edges of the paper to keep in the sauce, &c., and set it in the oven till the papers puff out. Serve very hot. Sardines, Petites BoucJiees de.—Have ready some tiny cases either of fried bread, puff, cheese, or anchovy pastry, and fill with the following: Pound two or three cleansed sardines with pepper, salt, a few drops of chilli vinegar, and enough cheese to bring it to the consistency of buttered crab, then stir into this some lightly minced oysters, and serve garnished with sieved hard-boiled yolk of egg and coralbne pepper. Another version of this, known as houchees de sardines en caviar, is made by boning, chopping, and pounding some sardines with dried parsley, a tiny clove of shallot, cayenne, salt, lemon juice, and a little salad oil. Fill some oval crou- stades vdth this mixture, and serve garnished with hard-boiled and sieved egg yolk and coradline pepper. It is not easy to give the proportions for this, as the mixture must be worked up to the taste of caviar, to which it bears a most marked resemblance. Anchovies may be used if preferred. Sardines en Tartines.—Cleanse and bone five or six sardines and pound them with a washed, boned, and minced anchovy, loz. of butter, a dust each of cayenne, mace, and salt, and a drop or two of lemon«4 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. j juice; when quite smooth spread the mixture on very thin brown bread and butter, roll up each slice after trimming it neatly, pinch it lightly together to keep it in shape, and serve with a garnish of seasoned watercress. Sardine Toast.—Stir together over the fire four cleansed and minced sardines, two egg yolks, loz. of butter, a dessertspoonful each of Worcester sauce and essence of anchovy, with a spoonful or two of milk, season to taste with cayenne, and as soon as ' it is all well blended pour it on to strips of hot buttered toast and serve very hot. This requires attention, for if allowed to overcook it will curdle and toughen. Like all forms of buttered eggs (of which this is one), it is better to dish it a little under, rather than overdone, as the eggs cook after leaving the fire. Croutes de Sardines d la creme.—Cleanse three or four sardines from skin and bone, and pound them with just enough fresh butter to produce a smooth paste; then work this with a gill of stiffly whipped cream rather highly seasoned with cayenne, minced parsley, and lemon juice, and pile this on little rounds of biscuit-crisp fried bread, or use it to fill tiny cornets of anchovy pastry. Sardines d la Souhise.—Prepare a rich and rather thick Soubise sauce to which you add a full dessert- spoonful of freshly grated Parmesan cheese and a dust of cayenne for each half pint of sauce ; spread some fingers of fried bread or buttered toast with this, then lay on each a cleansed and boned sardine, cover with more sauce, dust with grated cheese andSAVOURIES. 65 pepper, and set it for five or six minutes in a quick oven, and serve very liot. If preferred, tomato sauce mixed with cheese may be used instead of the Soubise, but in this dase it will be Sardines d la Napolitaine. Anchovies also are excellent done by either of these recipes. “ Angels on HorsehacJc”—Beard as many oysters as you need, roll each in a little and very thin slice of fat bacon, securing this in position with a large pin; fry delicately till the bacon is just done and no more, or the oyster will be hard. Remove the pins, set each roll on a fried crouton previously dusted with coralline pepper, lemon juice, minced parsley, and chives if liked, and serve at once. Smoked cooked haddock, flaked, and seasoned with a little butter, pepper, and minced parsley, is excellent thus ; or, indeed, most flaked fish or tiny fillets of kippers or bloater can be served thus, as can also sliced poultry livers, but these last naturally need longer cooking. Oysters devilled.—Lay as many oysters as you need in a piedish, and pour over them liquefied butter, highly seasoned with cayenne (or a few drops of Tabasco) and lemon juice, and let them marinade for ten or fifteen minutes, turning them now and again. Then roll each in bread-crumbs seasoned with cayenne or coralline pepper as you please, and freshly ground black pepper; brush them over with beaten egg, again roll in the seasoned bread-crumbs, and fiy in half lard, half butter, and serve as hot as possible. Oyster Fritters.—Have ready some good frying batter lightly seasoned with coralline pepper, drop F66 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. an oyster into a dessertspoon, fill this with the batter, slide the whole gently into hot fat, and fry till well and evenly coloured, repeating the process till all the oysters are used. Drain well, and serve dusted with coralline pepper, with brown bread and butter and cut lemon handed round. Oyster Profiteroles with Caviar.—Have ready some very fresh and small brioche rolls or tiny choux, make an incision in the side of each, put in some good fresh Astrakan caviar (the grey-green, large- seeded kind is best), seasoned with lemon juice and a very little salad oil; next put in a bearded oyster, then more caviar, press the roll well together, and serve. Oyster Bissolettes.—Beard the oysters aud boil the beards in the oyster liquor with half a gill of white stock and the same of single cream or new milk till strongly flavoured, then strain this on to 2oz. of white roux (or an ounce of butter and flour smoothly blended over the fire) and allow it all to cook together till very thick. Stir into this the oysters minced, with one-third their bulk of minced mushrooms, and turn out the mixture to cool. Roll out some puff or anchovy pastry very thinly, and stamp from it some little rounds with a fluted two- inch cutter, place a spoonful of the mince on each, • wet the edges of the paste, fold the latter over, crescent shape, pinch the edges well together, brush over with beaten egg, and bake on a buttered paper in a quick oven. These may, if preferred, be fried and served with fried parsley. Oyster Roulades.—Cut some thin small slices of streaky bacon, bat it out with a wet knife, spread itSAVOURIES. 67 pretty thickly with the mince given in the previous recipe, roll each up cigar-fashion, keeping the roulades neat and small, then dip them twice in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, fry in plenty of hot fat, and serve garnished with seasoned watercress. Oyster Blancmange.—Prepare a blancmange in the usual way, only using salt instead of sugar and adding the oyster liquor. Decorate a mould alter- nately with caviar and lobster coral (or coralhne pepper), and pour in a layer of the savoury blanc- mange, then a layer of fresh bearded oysters, sprinkling these lightly with caviar and a little lemon juice, then more blancmange, and so on, till the mould is full, finishing with the blancmange. Set it on ice till wanted, then turn out and serve garnished with chopped aspic and caviar. Oysters, Scalloped.—Strain otf the liquor from the oysters and add this, with the beards, to as much rich white sauce as you have oyster liquor, allow this to cook together till nicelv flavoured with the oyster beards, then strain these off, re-boil the sauce, lay in the oysters, and just simmer them for a minute or two. Now lay them, in well-buttered silver or china shells or well-washed scallop shells, then cover lightly with freshly grated white crumbs, season with freshly ground black pepper, salt, and minced parsley, pour a little liquefied butter over each, and brown either before the fire or with a red hot salamander or shovel. Scallops, shrimps, prawns, or indeed any flaked cooked fish is good treated thus. A simpler way is this: Open carefully eighteen or twenty-four native oysters, give them p 2SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 68 one scald in their own liquor, then well rinse in the same and beard neatly. Have ready some well- buttered scallop shells, dust well with fresh bread- crumbs, minced parsley (or chives), and a dust of pepper and salt, lay in the oysters halved, strew these with the crumbs, &c., and fill up the shells in layers with the oysters and the crumbs, finishing with the latter, strain a little of the oyster liquor into each shell, put a morsel of butter on each, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes till nicely browned. Oysters with Tomatoes.—Hemove the seeds and core from some nice ripe tomatoes, seasoning them with pepper, salt, finely minced chives, and parsley. Beard some oysters, saving the liquor ; season some freshly made white crumbs with coralline pe^jper, salt, and a little minced parsley. Now fill up the tomatoes with alternate layers of bread-cnimbs and oysters, moistening each with the oyster liquor, pile it all, up, finishing with the crumbs, place some morsels of butter on each, and bake for ten minutes or so in a moderate oven, covered with a buttered paper. Oyster Toast.—Chop coarsely ten or twelve oysters with one or two washed and boned anchovies (or anchovy paste or essence may be used), add to these one or two spoonfuls of cream, or the yolk of an egg, with a grain of cayenne, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a spoonful of white sauce (rather thick), and let it just not come to the boil; then pom’ it on to hot buttei’ed toast, with a dust of minced j>arsley and coralline pepper, and serve very hot. Grood canned oysters answer for this.SAVOURIES. 69 Oysters en Beignets.—Slice some fat bacon very thinly, and with a sharp cutter stamp out small rounds the size of a crown piece. Season a bearded oyster with coralline pepper and lemon juice, and place it between two rounds of bacon, pressing these well together; now dip these rounds into frying batter and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown, then drain, place each on a small round fried crouton, and serve hot, dusted with minced parsley. Oysters d la Casanova.—Beard some good oysters, and stew the beards in a little seasoned milk till their flavour is extracted, then strain this to some Casanova sauce and leave it till cold. Shred some celery into Julienne strips, leaving these in cold acidulated water to crisp, then drain well, stir it with the bearded oysters into the sauce, and serve either in china or paper cases or in small tartlets of anchovy pastry, as preferred. Bor the Casanova sauce crush the hard-boiled yolk of an egg in a basin previously rubbed across once or twice with fresh cut garlic, mix in a pinch each of white pepper and salt, a mustardspoonful each of Brench and English mustard, and a tiny dust of coralline pe2?per, then stir to it the yolk of a day-old egg (absolutely new-laid eggs are not so good as older ones for sauce making) and stir it well with a very clean wooden sj)oon. Now work into it, a teasj)oonful at a time, enough thick cream to get it all to a butter-like consistency, then add to it very gradu- ally about one and a haK teaspoonfuls of strained lemon juice; when this sauce is quite white and70 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. thick, stir to it a truffle and the hard-boiled egg- white, both cut into Julienne strips, and use. If you stir cubes of foie gras, flakes of salmon or lobster, &c., into this sauce and serve in tiny jjastry (either puff, cheese, or anchovy) cases, the dish is known as casso- lettes de foie gras (Sc.) d la Gasaytova. Savoury Cod's JRoe.—If smoked roe is used it must be steeped for a little to soften it, then sliced, and fried lightly in a little butter; serve on croutons of fried bread seasoned with minced parsley, chives, and coralline pepper. It is also good if, after lightly frying, it is pounded, with freshly ground black and cayenne pepper, and sufflcient butter to make it all a nice smooth paste. If pressed into pots and covered with melted butter to keep it airtight, this will keep for some time, and is excellent as a stand-by or as a foundation for other savouries; as it can be served spread on hot toast with a seasoning of lemon juice, cayenne, and minced parsley, or beaten up with stiffly whipped cream (cold) and forced out on to square or round croutes; or it may be broken up and heated in a rich white (and thick) sauce and used as a filling for an omelette fourree. If fresb roe is used wash it well, then put it into a pint of boiling water seasoned with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a pinch each of salt and pepper. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, then serve hot with hollandaise or tomato sauce, or else leave it till cold, then slice and fry it and serve it like the smoked roe, either plain, or with a rose of anchovy butter, seasoned caviar, or horseradish cream on each.71 SAVOURIES. Savoury Herring Roes.—Take six good soft (fresh) herring roes, well wash them, and lay them in a pan with loz. of butter and a little salt and pepper, and cook them for six or eight minutes under a buttered paper; then a,rrange on fingers of buttered toast or finger croiitons, season with a drop or two of lemon juice, coralline pepper, and a drop of essence of anchovy, and set in the oven till quite hot. Tinned herring roes may be used in the same way, but naturally do not require the first cooking. Laitances au Gratin.—Cook some soft roes as above, have ready some little paper cases j)reviously oiled and dried, put a layer of d’Uxelle mixture in each, then a herring roe, either straight or curled, put a spoonful of rich espagnole (or tomato) sauce into each case, dust with bread-crumbs, and set in the oven till nicely browned. A plainer method of doing this is to lay a cooked roe in each case, season with pepper and salt, grated bread, and minced parsley, with a morsel of butter on each, and bake till the crumbs are browned; then serve with a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter on each. This is known as laitances gratines a la maitre d’hotel. Laitances en Papillotes.— Oil some heart-shaped pieces of paper, lay a little d’Uxelle mixture on each, with a spoonful of rather thick tomato sauce, and on this a well washed but uncooked roe, fold the paper, pinching the edges well together, and bake or broil till the paper puffs out. Laitances d la Liable.—Season some well-washed roes with salt, lemon juice, cayenne, and if liked a di’op or two of Tabasco, and cook till nearly crisp in72 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. a little butter; tbeu serve at once on very hot finger croutons, well dusted with cayenne and coralline pej)per, Tabasco, or Worcester sauce, and a little minced chives and parsley, and serve very hot. Laitances cl la Sefton.—Cook some herring roes as above, and sieve them whilst hot with washed and boned anchovies (using one of these for four or five roes), then mix lightly into this puree a finely minced gherkin and some stiffl.y whipped cream, and pile this up en pyramide on a biscuit-crisp crouton, and seiwe dusted with lobster coral or coralline pepper, with a garnish of seasoned watercress. Where economy, and a small family, have to be considered, the roes should be saved from the fish sent for table, and either cooked separately or removed just as the cooked fish is being sent to table. Either soft or hard roes may be used, but the former are most delicate. Devilled Roe and MacJcerel Bones.—When broiled mackerel is served for dinner, remove the soft roe and the spine after cooking, cut the latter into two-inch lengths, dip in liquefied butter, season thickly with salt, freshly ground black pepper, and devil paste, strew with fine bread-crumbs, and broil till crisp, then ser^'-e on buttered toast with a piece of the hot roe seasoned with pepper and lemon juice on each. Mind it is as hot as fire and pepper can make it. Bloater Roe Toast.—Rub up together loz. of butter, one tablespoonful of anchovy paste, cayenne, and a little lemon juice, spread this thickly on hot buttered toast, and lay on each half a cooked and very hot soft bloater roe, and serve. Another.SAVOURIES. 73 version of this is made by broiling two soft-roed bloaters, then when cooked lift out the roes, keep them hot, and pound the fish, after boning it, with one egg, loz. of butter, and salt and cayenne to taste. Pile this on finger croutons, lay a piece of the roe on each, dust with pepper and minced parsley and a morsel of butter (or use a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter), and set it in the oven till quite hot. Laitances a la Madras.—Cut some thin slices of fat bacon, spread these with chutney and minced capers, and lay on each a piece of well-washed bloater roe, seasoned with pepper and lemon juice, skewer lightly, and fry or broil and serve very hot on fried croutons. Chicken livers cooked thus, and known as foie de volaille a la diahle, are excellent. Laitances aux Huitres.—Prepare some croutes creuses (see chapter on ‘‘Garnishes”), and lay in each a cooked, soft, herring roe, and on this two or three bearded oysters, seasoned with lemon juice and pepper, sprinkle with a little liquefied butter, and set in the oven till very hot. Petites Caisses d la St. James.—Have ready some little cheese pastry-lined cases. Clean and blanch four sets oE herring or mackerel roes, and cut them into dice. Have ready a gill of rich white sauce strongly flavoured with grated Parmesan cheese, and stir into this the herring roes and half their bulk of Gruyere, also cut into dice, with a small teaspoonful each of French and Enghsh mustard, and stir it all over the fire till hot; then fill the cases with this, cover quickly with a mering-ue of three or four egg whitesSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 74 whipped stiffly with coralline pepper, and serve at once, very hot. Laitances aux Cepes.—Brush some hard bloater roes with butter, and grill before a clear fire, then mince them, and season with salt, lemon juice, and cayenne, and spread this thickly on round croutons, then lay on each a round mushroom fried in butter, and serve veiy hot. (Broiled or fried mushrooms also go excellently well with soft fresh herring roes.) If a little of this herring roe, minced and rolled in thin slices of fat bacon, is dipped in batter and fried, it is known, served on croutons, as Laitances en KromesJcis. Smoked Haddock Toast.—Flake very finely half a cooked Finnon haddock (one stewed in milk for choice). Meantime melt loz. of butter with a full tea,spoonful of flour, and the same of minced chives (or a very finely minced shallot) and of parsley, and stir it all over the fire till quite hot (but v not browned), then add the flaked fish ; meanwhile beat up one or two eggs in half a pint of milk x (preferably that in which the haddock was cooked), season to taste with black, red, or white pepper, and pour it to the fish, stirring it all over the fire till thickened and well blended, when you pour it on to croutons of fried brown bread, and serve very hot, dusted with coralline pepper and minced parsley. Or : Flake the fish finely, and for each table- | spoonful allow a well-washed fillet of anchovy and a [ tiny piece of butter, and pound it all till smooth, W., seasoning it with a dust of pepper. Now stir to it a ^ gill of any nice white sauce, allow it to get thoroughly75> SAYOURIES. hot without actually boiling, then stir in the yolk of an egg or a tablespoonful of cream, and serve very hot on fingers of buttered toast lightly dusted with coralline pepper. Or: Flake the fish as before, and for this quantity allow loz. each of butter and of grated cheese, moistening it with an egg yolk and a tablespoonful of either white sauce or thick cream, and when thoroughly hot season to taste and pour into some croiUes creuses; cover each with the stiffly whipped white of the egg by means of a pipe and bag, and set in the oven till crisp and lightly browned. A few drops of essence of anchovy are an improve- ment. If this is served in croutes creuses or crou~ stades, it is known as Croutes de merluche d la Florence. Ballettes de Merluche (Savoury Haddock Balls).— Flake and pound half a cooked haddock, and stir it over the fire with loz. of butter, a good dash of coralline pepper and a teaspoonful of minced parsley or chives, and enough thick cream or good white sauce to bring it to the consistency of rissole forcemeat r then turn it out and leave till cold. It can then be divided, rolled into balls in your floured hands, egged, cnimbed, and fried a golden brown, then well di’ained, and. serve very hot, dusted with coralline pepper and garnished with fried parsley. If pre- ferred some cheese or anchovy pastry may be rolled out very thinly, rounds stamped out of it, and a spoonful of the mixture placed on each, when they are doubled over in a crescent shape, egged and crumbed, or rolled in broken up vermicelli, fried, drained, and76 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. served as before. It may be remarked that fried jparsley is rather a difficulty to untrained cooks. The method is this: Bring the fat so nearly to the boil that a slight blue vapour is rising and the fat is perfectly still, then turn out the gas (if you are using a gas stove), or draw the pan to the side, and throw in the well-picked and dried parsley and let it fry till it has utterly ceased to “ sizzle,” when it must be at once lifted out and will be found quite crisp and powdery, and of a beautiful green. Croutes d la Jubile.—Free the flesh of a nice fresh dried haddock from all skin and bone, and sieve it- Now mix to it with a wooden spoon 4oz. of fresh butter (slightly warmed) for each |lb. of fish. Put this purfe into a bag with a plain pipe, and force a portion of fish on to as many rounds of fried bread as you require; then lay on each a bearded oyster seasoned with coralline pepper and lemon juice, mask this well over with more sieved haddock, smooth it into cone-shapes with a hot, wet knife, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven, covered with a buttered paper. (It may be remem- bered that lobster or crab are equally good cooked according to any of the preceding haddock recipes, though for most tastes a washed and filleted anchovy should replace the oyster in the last one.) If the above puree is seasoned with cayenne and lemon juice and piled on hot buttered toast with a garnish of sieved hard-boiled egg yolk, the white being cut into Julienne strips and j)iled round it, it is called on menus Croutes de merluche d la Marjorie. Flaked fish or haddock, pounded and seasoned as77 SAYOURIES. before, is often dipped in batter, fried, drained, dusted with pepper and minced parsley, and served as heignet de merluche, &c. If these fritters are served ■with a good tomato sauce and a garnish of fried bacon, they make an excellent breakfast or lunch dish. Haddock souffle.—Pick the flesh from a small, boiled Finiion haddock (or half a large one will do), pound it with loz. of butter, and, after sieving it, mix into it a good dash of cayenne and the yolks of two or three eggs. Fifteen minutes before the souffle is wanted stir in lightly the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, pour the mixture into a papered souffle dish (or seven or eight small ones), and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes for the large, and ten to twelve minutes for the small souffles. Homard d la Tartars.—Flake some crisply fried and well drained croCdes creuses and place in each a little mustard and cress, and pile on this some flaked lobster (crab, salmon, shrimps, or even kippers can all be used thus), and just as they are to be served mask them with rich mayonnaise to which you have added one or two chopped pickled gherkins and sufficient French mustard to flavour it well. Serve at once (as mayonnaise becomes rank if exposed too long to the air) with, if liked, two long shreds of red chilli skin crossed, with a caper at the crossing, on each. Darioles de Homard en aspic.—Cut a medium lobster into dice; beat the cream from the inside into some rich mayonnaise, then stir in the minced lobster and about loz. of mustard and cress. Line78 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. some dariole moulds with aspic, and fill these with the mixture, rapping each smartly on the table to set the filling; cover with a little just liquid aspic and leave till set. Have ready some small square paper cases, put a slice of seasoned tomato in each, with a little salad mixed with mayonnaise, then turn out the moulds, set one in each case, add a little salad and chopped aspic all round, then at alternate corners set a quarter of a plover’s egg, garnishing the opposite corners with a thick strip of truffle. (Crab is delicious thus.) Cornets de Homard d la Creme.—Butter some cornet tins, and roll out some anchovy or cheese pastry very thinly, stamp it out in rounds 3|in. to 4in. in diameter, prick these all over with a fork, and line the tins lightly with these rounds, slipping a second tin into the first, over the paste, to keep the latter in position, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes till crisp; then lift them out and leave till cold. Have ready some lobster prepared as for the darioles, only omitting the mustard and cress, and mix with one and a half gills ofi stiffly whipped cream seasoned with a little coralline pepper; fill the cornets with this mixture by means of a bag and pipe, placing a turned olive farced with an anchovy fillet in the mouth of each. Crab, shrimps, sardines, &c., are all excellent served thus. Iced Lobster Souffle.— Flake down a nice lobster, and let it marinade for an hour or so in oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and mix the cream from the body with a rich tomato mayonnaise. Have ready some79 SAYOURIES. stiffly whipped aspic jelly and put a layer of this into a papered souffle case, cover this with some of the flaked lobster, then some of the cream, &c., then more whipped aspic, continuing the layers till the dish is full, finishing with the aspic. Dust with minced parsley, and leave it in the ice cave, or on ice, till ice-cold. Crab, salmon, cold chicken, or game, &c., are all excellent thus. Curried Lobster Iced.—Put into a basin (pre- viously rubbed with a freshly cut clove of garlic) half a pint of good mayonnaise, a teaspoonful of minced chives or very finely chopped shallot, a small dessertspoonful of good curry powder, a saltspoonful of mustard flour, a dust of cayenne, and a good breakfastcupful of finely flaked lobster (or crab, or shrimps, &c.), and set it in the charged ice cave for two and a half hours; now half fill some china cases with this mixture, covering them up en 'pyramids with cold boiled rice carefully cooked to get every grain separate garnish with chopped red and white chillies or minced parsley and coralline pepper, and serve in a glass dish surrounded with crushed ice. Lobster d la Remoulade.—Break the shell, open the back, removing all the inside, and put all the cream or soft part into a basin with a full tea- spoonful of mustard, a spoonful each of minced parsley and chives (or very finely minced shallot), salt, black and red pepper, the coral, and sufficient oil and vinegar to moisten it all well. Halve the body of the lobster, remove the shell from the claws, and serve garnished with seasoned watercress, the above mixture being handed round in a boat.80 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. Lobster in the Shell.—Divide the lobster without breaking the shell, remove the soft part and the flesh, and clean the shell well. Now stir together over the fire two tablespoonfuls of veloute, a pat of butter, salt, and cayenne pepper, and when quite hot add to it the lobster minced and the cream, stir it for a minute, then pour this mixture into the shell, smooth it with a hot knife, strew it with brown bread-crumbs, baste it with liquefied butter, make it very hot, and brown with a salamander or a red-hot shovel. Homard d la Due de York.—Put into a pan four ripe sliced tomatoes, two minced shallots, two full tablespoonfuls of espagnole sauce, loz. glaze, a tablespoonful of Lea and Perrin’s Worcester sauce, a teaspoonful of chutney (minced), rather more than a full pint of good fish stock, a teaspoonful of curry powder, and the juice of a lemon. Boil this all together for twenty minutes, then add |oz. of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s leaf gelatine, and when this is thoroughly dissolved rub the contents of the pan through a sieve; when this puree is cool add to it the meat of a freshly cooked lobster cut into dice, together with a teaspoonful of minced parsley, pile up some little cups or china cases with the mixture, forcing out a little rose of whipped cream seasoned with coralline pepper on the top of each by means of a bag and rose pipe. Set on ice or in the ice . cave till thoroughly cold. Devilled Lobster Ices.—Mince and pound 8oz, of cooked lobster with a dessertspoonful of warm glaze, a teaspoonful of curry powder, one and a half table-81 SAYOURIES. spoonfuls of Yorkshire relisli, or any nice sauce (good tomato ketchup is excellent), the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs, and four washed and boned anchovies; then rub this all through the sieve, mix with it half a pint of strong veal stock (mutton bone jelly answers also) in which you have dissolved about a |oz. of best leaf gelatine, and lastly mix in lightly and thoroughly a third of a pint of stiffly whipped cream. Have ready some small bombe moulds previously lined with rather stiff aspic jelly, fill up the moulds with the lobster mixture, and place them in the charged ice cave for one or more hours; then turn out and serve garnished with seasoned watercress. Chicken or game can, if liked, be used instead of the lobster, but then use chicken stock, or stock made from the game bones. Both these last recipes are adaptations from Mrs. A. B. Marshall. Crah Groustades.—Pick the flesh of a nice crab from the shell, and pound it with salt, red and freshly ground black pepper, a few bread-crumbs, and a little butter. How put it into a delicately clean pan with a little meat gravy (not sauce), a spoon- ful or two of cream, and one spoonful of sherry. When thoroughly hot (it must not actually boil), pour it either into a single croustade, or in several small ones as you please. (Needless to say lobster is good thus.) Crab in the Shell.—Pick the flesh from a good large crab, and pound it with the soft creamy part inside, seasoning it, as you pound it, with (red and black) pepper, salt, half a teaspoonful of made oSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 82 mustard, a dash of cayenne, a dessertspoonful of best vinegar, a small teacupful of pounded “ crackers ” (hard biscuits) or dried and sifted crumbs, and loz. of fresh butter, or two or three spoonfuls of thick cream; stir this all over the fire till perfectly hot, when you pour the mixture into the well-washed and dried shells, strew the top with bread-crumbs, a very little minced parsley, and some morsels of butter, and set it in the oven, or in front of the fire to brown. Dressed Crah.—‘Prepare some rich mayonnaise, flavouring this with shallot and chilli vinegar, with a rather stronger seasoning of cayenne than usual, and making it pretty thick. Now mix into it the sieved creamy part of the crab, and then the white flesh cut into dice. Turn this mixture into the well- washed shell, and strew the top in lines with sieved and hard-boiled yolk and white of egg, and finely minced parsley, placing it when ready in the ice cave till perfectly cold. Serve garnished with the crab claws, and hand dry toast and butter, or brown bread and butter with it. The mayonnaise should be rather hotter than when served alone, or, if pre- ferred, tomato mayonnaise or sauce tartare may be used with the crab. Iced Crah 8ouffl,6.—Shred the flesh of one or more cooked crabs finely with two silver forks, then stir into it the creamy part of the inside, a good seasoning of coralline pepper, and, if liked, a dust of cayenne, and, lastly a full gill of rich tomato mayonnaise (for each fair-sized crab) ; now whip some just melted aspic to a very stiff froth, put a83 SAVOURIES. layer of this at the bottom of a papered souffle mould, put aside an equal quantity of the whipped aspic, and mix the rest with the prepared crab, fill up the mould with this, and finally pile the rest of the aspic on the top and set it all on ice or in the charged ice cave till thoroughly frozen. These may give some idea of the variety of savouries that may be prepared from fish, though naturally the list is more than imperfect. It is well to remember that home-potted fish (or, indeed, many other things) adds immensely to the number of savouries that may be prepared at little, if any, cost. Eor instance, pick the flesh free from skin and bones from two broiled fresh herrings, and pound it till smooth with a quarter part of its bulk of fresh butter and a seasoning of pepper (black and red), a very little salt, and an atom of mace. When perfectly smooth press it into pots, and if a little clarified butter is run over it, it will keep for some time. Any fish, especially kippers, bloaters, Finnon had- dock, smoked or fresh salmon, or cod’s roe, lobster, Ac., may be prepared thus. Shrimps make par- ticularly good paste, as do also canned lobster or salmon, especially if a little anchovy paste or a well- washed and boned fillet or so of anchovy be pounded with every ;|lb. of fish. It is difficult to give exact quantities, as the mixture depends largely on personal taste. Bloater Grilled.—Split the fish and grill it over a clear fire, cooking the skin side first, and then the inside, for five to eight minutes, and serve dry or with a tiny pat of butter on it. G 2SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 84 Bloater Toast.—Pick all the flesh from a bloater fried in butter; pound this flesh with the roe and ■|oz. of butter, season well with pepper and salt, and sieve it. Add this puree to a gill of white sauce or of velout^, stir it all over the fire till thick, pour it on five or six squares of buttered toast, and serve very hot. Shrimp Toast.—Melt loz. of butter, and stir into this when hot half a pint of picked shrimps, a little finely minced parsley or chives, a good seasoning of black and coralline pepper, and a dessertspoonful of tomato, walnut, or mushroom ketchup, or indeed any cruet sauce, to taste. A very few drops of essence of anchovy are a great addition to this.CHAPTEE V. SAVOIJEIES (Continued). Next in importance to anchovies, and sucli like, comes cheese, nowadays served in all sorts of ways for a second course, of which fashion the following will give a few specimens. Croutes au Frontage.—Slice some white or brown bread half an inch thick, and from these stamp out as many rounds l|^in. in diameter as you may require (hollowing them slightly on the top and frying them till biscuit-crisp), and keep them hot; meanwhile stir together 2oz. grated cheese, one egg yolk, loz. of fresh butter, loz. freshly grated white bread-crumbs, a dessertspoonful of cream or new milk, and a good seasoning of freshly ground black pepper, cayenne, and salt. When this is perfectly blended, pile it up on the rounds of bread, smooth it with a knife, and set it in the oven till nicely browned (or use a salamander or a red hot shovel) and serve at once very hot. Golden Buch.—Mince 4oz. of Cheddar cheese, and set it on the fire with loz. of butter, a wineglassful of ale, a saltspoonful of celery salt, and about half aSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 86 one of coralline pej^per; then add two eggs well beaten with a tablespoonful of cream, stir it all well, and whisk it over the fire till creamy and just setting; add a few drops of lemon juice and half a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, and serve at once on hot buttered toast. Another version of this dish is made by covering the hot toast with a rarebit mixture, then, just as the toast is to be served, putting a delicately poached egg on each one. Diahlotins d la Gruyere.—Line some small dariole moulds with thinly rolled-out anchovy, cheese, or short pastry, as you prefer ; dissolve loz. of butter, work into it |oz. of cornflour and 3oz. grated G-ruyere cheese, moistening it with a gill of milk, and let it all boil up well; then stir into it two well-beaten eggs and a good seasoning of cayenne. Half fill the darioles with this, then lay in a good cube of anchovy, bloater, or any other highly seasoned paste, fill them up with the rest of the cheese mixture, sprinkling the surface with grated cheese, and bake a light brown in a moderate oven, turn out and serve at once. Bo^ichees d la Simla.—Wash and bone half a tin of sardines, sprinkle them generously with tarragon vinegar, freshly ground black pepper, and salt, and let them steep from one and a half to two hours. Now pound them with an equal amount of Cheddai’ cheese, sieve it all, and serve piled on biscuit-crisp croutons with a garnish of seasoned watercress. This paste spread on bread and butter makes delicious sandwiches. Toasted Cheese d VAnglaise.—For this one of theSAYOURIES. 87 old-fasliioned clieese-toasters with an outer dish containing boiling water is needed, though the modern chafing dish will also answer. Slice down some good rich cheese pretty thinly, and lay it in the hot-water dish, with (if at all dry) some morsels of butter; add two or three spoonfuls of porter or good ale (according to the quantity of cheese), some freshly ground black pepper, with sufficient made mustard to flavour it well, and stir it till it is all thoroughly melted. Send to table at once in the hot-water dish (in old days this dish was always made in the dining-room) with crisp hot toast. This dish varies according to taste ; some people dip the thick buttered toast into the beer, melting the cheese with a spoonful or two of cream or new milk, and pouring it when ready on to the toast; others again omit the ale altogether, being content with milk and a dash of celery salt, browning the surface with a salamander, and serving it on rather soft, freshly made buttered toast. Of course this can be cooked quite as well in a saucepan, but requires watching, as if the least overcooked it is leathery, If cooked thus, and poured on to lightly buttered toast, seasoned with coralline or Nepal pepper, and the surface browned, it is often called “ Welsh Rabbit (or Rarebit”), whilst if, when made in this wav, a drop or two of vinegar and a minced pickled o-herkin are added at the last, it is known as “ Irish Rarebit.” Many people again add the yolk of one or more eggs to the mixture and call the dish “ Golden Buck,” The real toasted cheese, however, should be slices of cheese really toasted in front of the fire88 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. very carefully, so as to have it soft through, but not quite dripping ; it is then laid on slices of toast, seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper, and served very hot. Macaroni Cheese. — Boil sufficient macaroni to three parts fill the dish you intend to use; then strain it, lay it in the dish, pour over it enough good cream to just cover it, add a thick layer of good rich cheese thinly sliced or grated, with a seasoning of salt and cayenne, and bake in a quick oven. A nice, and unusual, form of this dish is to prepare the macaroni as before, and have ready some squares or triangles of buttered toast dipped in rather thick tomato sauce; fill the dish alternately with these, finishing with the macaroni, and dusting each layer generously with grated cheese, pepper, and salt, pour in enough cream or new milk to just cover it, and bake till browned on top. Ballettes d’or.—Into a pint of good veloute stir the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of cream, a dust of coralline pepper, and sufficient grated Parmesan cheese to flavour it well. Stir it all over the fire, adding as you do so sufficient cold cooked macaroni, minced into little rings, to thicken it, then turn it out and leave till cold. Now break off pieces, roll these lightly into balls, dip them in flour, brush them over with beaten egg, and roll them in crushed vermicelli or white bread-crumbs, and fry a golden brown. Serve with fried parsley. Clioufleur Oratine au Frontage.—Melt 3oz. or 4oz. of fresh butter, and stir into it some freshly grated Parmesan cheese and a little coralline pepper.SAYOURIES. 89 Have ready a boiled cauliflower (one left over from the previous night will do nicely), and cover it with haK the oiled butter; now strew it thickly with grated cheese and fresh bread-crumbs, moisten with some of the oiled butter; then another layer of the cheese and bread-crumbs, pour the rest of the oiled butter over it, and brown with a red hot salamander or shovel, and serve very hot. If preferred, use white sauce instead of the oiled butter. Pounded Cheese.—Break up any good cheese, even if dry and hard (this is a capital way of using up dry scraps of cheese), and pound it with either fresh butter or oil, using 3oz. or 4oz. of either of these to the lib. of cheese, according to the dryness of the latter; seasoning it to taste with pepper, black or red, rnade mustard, or curry powder (a teaspoonful of either of the two latter to the 11b. of cheese), cayenne, or ketchup, &c., as you please. Now press it into little pots, when it will keep for some days in a cool place ; or for some weeks if clarified butter is run over the top. This is excellent for sandwiches, or it may be shaped into little balls (some minced pickle being worked into it if liked), left on ice for two or three hours, then served with hot, biscuit- crisp toast. Baked Cheese Sandwiches.—Cut slices from some rich cheese, about one-third of an inch thick, and place these between slices of brown bread and butter, seasoning them as you do so with freshly gromid pepper and a drop or two of tarragon vinegar ; set these sandwiches in the oven and serve at once, directly the bread is toasted.SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. yo CEufs au Fromacje.—Have ready some oiled and dried paper cases (or china cases if preferred), and place in each a layer of freshly grated bread-crumbs, mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, minced parsley, and chives, pepper and salt, about half an inch thick; then break into each of these cases a fresh egg, dust it with pepper, and grated cheese, pour a teaspoonful of new milk or cream in at the side, and place it all in the oven till the eggs are cooked, and serve at once. The foundation layer of this can be varied to taste, and according to what you have. Cheese Patties.—Pound 8oz. of cheese with 4oz. of butter, and mix well; then beat into it the white of one and the yolks of five eggs, and when quite smooth pour the mixture into little tartlet pans lined with cheese pastry, and bake. Cheese Fritters.—Boil some macaroni till tender, then cut it up into tiny rings and mix these with grated Parmesan cheese, a little pepper and salt. Roll out some puff j)astry trimmings, dust it thickly with grated cheese and some coralline pepper, fold it over and roll it out again as thin as you can get it. Now stamp it out in rounds, and on half the rounds put a little heap of the cheese and macaroni, and cover over with the other rounds, pinching the edges well together; dip in egg and then in bread- crumbs or broken up vermicelli, and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown. Serve on a napkin, dusted with grated cheese and cayenne. Some cooks add a little thick tomato sauce to the cheese and macaroni. Cheese Straws.—These may be made by rollingSAVOURIES, 91 out the cheese pastry given for cassolettes, etc.,, about one-third of an inch thick, cuttmg this, into three or four-inch strips, and baking these in a good oven till delicately coloured. Another way is to prepare the paste as in the preceding recipe (but not rolling it out so thinly), baking it when cut into strips ; or these strips may be egged and rolled in crumbs or broken vermicelli and fried in plenty of hot fat till crisp. If stored in air-tight tins, the baked cheese straws will keep good for some time. Some cooks twist every sixth stick or so into a ring,, and when baked pass four or five of the straight sticks through it, serving one of these little faggots for each guest. Cheese Balls (Meringues au Parmesan).—Whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth, then stir in lightly 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese (mind it is rather dry), with salt and cayenne to taste. Shape this mixture into balls the size of a marble, and drop them into a panful of boiling fat. Fry for about five minutes till crisp and of a golden colour, then drain and serve dusted with grated cheese and cayenne. Cheese Soufie.—Melt loz. of butter, stir into it loz. of fine sifted flour, moisten this with a gill of new milk or single cream, and let it boil together till perfectly blended; now mix in, off the fire, the yolks of three eggs, a seasoning of salt, white or black pepper, as you prefer it, and 2oz. to 3oz. of grated and dry Parmesan, beating each egg in well before adding the next; lastly, stir in the whites of tlie eggs beaten to the stiffest possible froth, pour the mixture into a buttered and papered souffle■92 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. mould, and bake for thirty minutes if cooked in one tin, or ten to fifteen minutes if the above is divided into little soufSe cases. If to the above mixture you add a strong seasoning of coralline pepper, or of the Hungarian 'paprika, with a drop or two of Tabasco, the soufide becomes Souffle au paprika, or a la diahle. Again, if to the above mixture you add another egg, and a good tablespoonful of thick cream, and steam the souffle very gently, it can be turned out and served as Moiisse au fromage. But in this case great care must be taken with the steaming. Cheese Aigrettes.—Put 2oz. of butter into a pan with half a pint of water, and as soon as it boils up dredge in 4oz. of fine flour; stir it till it is a thick smooth paste that leaves the sides of the pan quite clean, then work in 2oz. of grated Parmesan and a good dash of coralline pepper; next mix in, olf the fire, the yolks of two eggs, beating the first well in before adding the second, and lastly stir in the very stiffly whipped whites of the eggs. Now turn it out on a buttered plate to cool, and when cold fry it in little rough lumjDS, This same paste can also be forced out by means of a bag and pipe on to a buttered baking tin, baked, and served as cheese proftterolles, or used as a garnish for clear soup, if small enough. Cheese ciArtois.—Take the weight of two eggs in bread-crumbs and cheese, and the weight of one in butter, with some puff paste. Roll the paste out very thin and halve it; heat the butter in a fielicately clean pan and beat into it the bread-SAYOURIES. 9a crumbs, the cheese, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, with salt, pepper, and a dash of nutmeg to taste. When this is all well blended and rather thick, spread one sheet of puh: paste with this mixture, cover it with the other, sandwich fashion, lay it on a buttered baking tin, score it in inch- wide strips, brush it over with well-beaten egg^ and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. Then cut through the scores and serve at once, piled up and very hot, dusted with grated Parmesan and coralline pepper. Cheese Creams.—Season half a pint of stiffly whipped cream with coralline pepper and salt, then mix with it l^oz. of grated Qruyere, and loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a gill of whipped aspic jelly. Stir this all till it is beginning to set, then pour it either into a Neapohtan ice mould or into any pretty dariole moulds, and place it for an hour in the charged ice cave. Now dip the mould intO' cold water, turn out the cream, serve it sliced with seasoned watercress, or any nice salad to taste- Or, if it was moulded in the little darioles, have ready some tomatoes previously dipped for a minute in boiling water, peeled, and sliced one-third of an inch thick; season these with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and a little minced parsley, turn out a little cheese mould on to each slice, and serve garnished with chopped aspic and seasoned watercress. Moulded Cheese.—Eub up the yolk of a hard- boiled egg with a tablespoonful of salad oil, then mix in separately, one after the other, a teaspoonfulSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 94 ■each of salt, coralline pepper, caster sugar, and made mustard, moistening it with a drop or two of Tabasco; then work in -|lb. of very dry and grated cheese. When it is all well mixed add a table- spoonful of onion vinegar, shape the mixture into a large roll or pat, and set it on ice till wanted. Serve with a plain lettuce salad, with an oil and vinegar dressing. Strangely enough, few people in England appear to know how good cheese (such as •Gruyere especially) is, if cut into dice and stirred in with a salad. Devilled Cheese Biscuits.—Steep some smallish water biscuits in milk for ten minutes, then lift them out, dust them with cayenne, salt, and black pepper, and bake for ten minutes in a slow oven; now lift them out, put a slice of cheese of the same size on each, and return them to the oven for ten minutes longer, and serve dusted with coralline pepper. Cornets d la Portugaise.—Pound five or six large tomatoes, sieve them, seasoning this pnree with pepper, salt, and, if needed, a drop or two of liquid carmine. Now stir into it a gill of just liquid aspic jelly, a gill of cream whipped stiffly, with a strong flavouring of freshly grated Parmesan cheese, and a little coralline pepper; add to this a dessert- spoonful of tarragon and a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, with a little minced tarragon and chervil, and set this all on ice till wanted. Have ready some biscuit-crisp cornets of cheese pastry, and fill them with this cream by means of a bag and pipe, .and serve ga,rnished with seasoned watercress.SAYOURIES. 95 Croutes d la Gloucester.—Cut some rounds of Hovis bread and of cbeese to match, and pile on each en pyramide some Gloucester sauce made thus : Beat up four eggs till light, then add a gill each of cream and chilli vinegar, a little French mustard, salt, cayenne, and 2oz. of fresh butter; stir this in the bain-marie till quite thick, but mind it does not boil, then, off the fire, add a few drops of lemon juice and some finely minced tarragon and set it on ice till wanted. Canapes de Tomates au Parmesan.—Have ready some round fried croutons; dip some rich-coloured tomatoes for a minute in boiling water, skin and slice them, and lay a slice of tomato on each, put a cube of Gruyere seasoned with oil and vinegar on this, and then, by means of a pipe and bag, mask the whole with egg white meringue strongly flavoured with grated Parmesan, and coralline pepper, and serve; or set it in a slack oven for a minute or two to crisp and colour very faintly. Cheese Crab.—Pound 2oz. of cheese with a dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce, the same of made mustard, and also of anchovy or chilli vinegar, a pinch of red pepper, a little salt, the yolks of two eggs, and a tablespoonful of butter. Pour this mixture on to hot buttered toast and bake for seven or eight minutes till nicely browned. Or it may be thoroughly mixed in a basin (without cooking) and served cold on squares of Hovis bread, as you please. ^ Cornets a la Milanaise.—Have ready as many cornets made with cheese pastry as you require.96 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. Now mix together 2oz. of fine flour, 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 2|oz, of butter, a good pinch each of coralline pepper and salt, the yolks of four raw eggs, and rather more than half a j^int of cold milk ; stir this all over the fii’e till on the point of boiling (if it does boil the eggs will curdle), then Kft it off, let it cool, when you stir in lightly a gill of stiffly whipped cream and two tablespoonfuls of minced prawns, shrimps, or lobster, and fill the cornets with the mixture. Place a curled-up prawn or shrimj) in the mouth of the cornet, and serve. The cornets may be left plain, or lightly brushed over with just liquid aspic, and dusted with coralline pepper and minced parsley. If you j>repare a mousseline sauce by adding a gill of richly coloured tomato mayon- naise to a gill of stiffly whipped and seasoned cream, and the same of whipped asj)ic, incorporating into this a tablespoonful of small dice of Gruym*e cheese, and the same of dice of cucumber, and fill the cornets with this, you have Cornets ^ la Maximilian, the contents of which should always be iced. Cheese Savoury.—Mix well together over a clear fire a dessertspoonful of mustard, a wineglassful of vinegar (that from walnut pickle is nicest), a dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy, a small j)iece of butter, and black, white, and red pepper to taste. When this is well mixed and hot, stir in 4oz. of finely broken-up cheese, and directly this is melted pour the mixture on to very hot toast, and serve at once. If care is not taken about adding the cheese only at the last, and serving it directly it is melted, this toast will be utterly spoilt and indigestible.97 SAVOURIES. though, if properly prepared, it is a very popular savoury. Cheese Pudding.—Mix two eggs with 5oz. of cheese and half a pint of boiling milk, pour the mixture into a pie-dish and bake for fifteen minutes. This may be turned out if liked, but is better if served in the dish it was cooked in. Cheese d VItalienne.—Half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, quarter of a pound of mutton suet, 2oz. of boiled and cut-up macaroni, with pepper and salt to taste. Beat all this together with two eggs, and steam for one hour and ten minutes in a well-buttered basin or mould. Serve with rich tomato sauce over and round it. If preferred, any other rich savoury sauce, or even clear gravy, may be served round it. Rice is just as good as macaroni for this dish. Cheese d VHollandaise.—For six little croustades of fried bread, mix two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan with a gill of Hollandaise sauce, fill up the croustades with this and set them in the oven just long enough to colour the surface, and serve at once. Canapes au Parmesan.—Stew an ounce of minced onion in half an ounce of butter till it turns a pale yellow, then put into this pan half a pound of tomatoes, quartered, and stew them gently till tender; then sieve them through a hair sieve, moistening them as you do so with a few drops of cream or new milk. Now return the pan to the fire and stir the tomato puree with enough grated cheese to make it like thick batter, seasoning it with freshly H98 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. ground black pepper; then sj^read this very thickly on fingers or rounds of fried bread, and serve as hot as you can make it, dusted with freshly grated Parmesan. It is by many reckoned an improve- ment to cook a Imnch of herbs and a bay-leaf with the tomatoes. Kiscli au Parmesan.—Beat up the yolks of five or six eggs with a gill of cream or new milk, an ounce of grated Parmesan, a good pinch of cayenne, and a dust of salt. Pour the mixture into little china souffle cases, bake in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. Cream Cheese Savoury.-—Cream 4oz. of butter and mix it with three well-beaten eggs, and when it is all like cream add a quarter of a tin of unsweetened condensed milk (or use cream), three tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, cayenne, and a good squeeze of lemon juice ; then add sufficient freshly made bread-crumbs to get it stiff enough to roil, drop these little balls into hot fat and fry a golden brown. Serve with dry toast and seasoned watercress. American Rarebit.—Prepare some toasted cheese as for Welsh rabbit, have ready as many squares of buttered toast well sprinkled with cayenne as you desire, stir one or two minced pickled gherkins into the mixture and pour it on to the toast, put a roll of broiled bacon or ham on top, and serve very hot. After fish and cheese savouries the most popular are the various kinds of toasts, and croutes, the difference between these being, that for the former9y SAVOURIES. tihe bread is plainly toasted and in some cases buttered, whereas in the latter the bread is fried a delicate golden brown in plenty of hot fat till biscuit-crisp, and well drained before use. For the ordinary toast you mince the meat to be used rather finely, seasoning it to taste with j)epper, salt, minced parsley and chives, etc., according to the land of meat used. This mince is then stirred over the fire with either milt, butter, or a little gravy or sauce, as you choose, till quite hot, and then served piled up j^lainly on hot buttered toast; or when piled up the surface is dusted with bread-crumbs and a little oiled butter, and the toast is placed in the oven till quite hot through and delicately browned. The following may serve to give some idea of these toasts and -cro/ltes: Devonshire Toast.—l^vib any nice potted meat (Strasburg, ham, game, or foie gras) with enough butter, or thick cream, to make it easy to spread; -coat some thin pieces of biscuit-crisp toast with this puree, then pile up on it some Devonshire or clotted cream, and garnish with minced olives and tiny fillets of either sardines or anchovies, washing these well and removing all bones. (Bloater or any fish paste can be used instead of the meat paste.) Ham, Bacon, or Kidney Toast.—Mince very finely a slice or two of cooked ham, bacon, or a veal kidney, or two or three sheeps’ kidneys, or the remains of a tongue (grate this if preferred), mix it with the well-beaten yolk of one or more eggs, and enough cream, gravy, or stock to make it all soft. Season to taste and stir it over the fire till H 2100 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. quite hot (but do not actually cook it again), then pour it on to hot buttered toast and serve. The secret in making this toast is to vary the flavourings nicely, using minced parsley, chives, lemon juice, etc. German Toast.—Mince finely the remains of any nice fricassee, or ragout, with a little parsley, chives, or shallot, pepper and salt. Mix this with one or more egg yolks, add the gravy belonging to the dish, and stir it all over the fire till thick, then turn it out and leave till cold. Now pile it up on buttered toast, and either brush it over with egg and strew it with crumbs, or cover it with the white of the egg used (whipped to a stiff froth, and seasoned with minced parsley and coralhne pepper), and set it in the oven till quite hot and nicely coloured. A few drops of lemon juice should be squeezed over it at the last. Any remains of a casserole are excellent served thus, but should be highly seasoned, Curmj Toast.—Well wash, bone, and pound 4oz, of anchovies with a little curry powder or paste, mustard, butter, and a few drops of vinegar ; spread this on hot buttered toast, place in the oven till hot, and seiwe at once. Any highly flavoured meat is good rechauffe thus. Bombay Toast.—Melt a square inch of butter and stir into it two eggs, a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne, and a few drops of essence of anchovy; spread this on buttered toast and serve very hot. Any strongly flavoured sauce to taste may be used instead of the anchovy. Marrow Toast.—Break two good marrow bones101 SAVOURIES. and remove tlie marrow ; soak this for two hours in tepid water to cleanse it, then cut it into inch cubes. A little before the dish is wanted, place the marrow in a frying basket and dip the latter into cold water, place it on the fire, and the moment it comes to the boil lift out the marrow, drain it, and put it on very hot crisp croutons, break it up with a fork, sprinkle it with minced parsley and chives (or young spring onions), and Searcey salt, or salt, and coralline pepper. Serve very hot. Marrow au Madere.—Prepare the marrow as before, have ready the hot crovitons and lay the marrow on this (but without breaking it up), pouring over it a rich Sauce Madere, and serve very hot. This is nicest if served in a silver hash or chafing dish with a spirit lamp under it. For Sauce Madere, boil a tumblerful of cooking sherry with some truffle or mushroom trimmings till the liquid is reduced to half, then add to it a gill of good brown sauce, boil it up, sieve it, stir into it a little minced truffle, with cayenne and salt to taste, and use. Marrow d la Maitre d'Hotel.—Into a gill of creamy bechamel sauce stir a good spoonful of finely minced parsley, and chives (previously blanched), add a good spoonful of thick cream, a squeeze of lemon juice, with some freshly ground black pepi^er, some coralline pepper, and a little salt. Prepare the marrow as before, break it up on the hot toast (not fried bread), and serve with Ihe sauce over it. The essence of these dishes is to have them very hot. Croutes d la Clarice.—Have ready some thin slices of parboiled fat bacon, lay on each a little heap ofSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 102 shred ham, anchovy, and mushroom; roll each up, dij) in frying batter, and fry a golden brown. Drain, dust with coralline pepper, and serve on small and very hot square croutons dusted with minced chives and coralline pepper. Croutes de Jamhon () VIndienne.—Stamp out . rounds one and a half inches across from thin slices of bread, and have half as many rounds of ham cut to match. Butter the bread lightly, then spread it with good chutney, place the ham on the bread, covering it with the rest, press them together, dip them in frying batter, fry a golden brown, drain well, and serve garnished with fried parsley. Croutes a la Russe.-—Prepare some round, biscuit- crisj) croutons, and place on each a slice of hard- boiled egg seasoned with oil and vinegar, a cube of smoked or hung beef, and pile over it all some rich and rather stiff horseradish cream. For this cleanse and scrape a stick of young horseradish very finely, mix it quickly into a gill of stiffly whipped sour cream, and season with cayenne and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Qraigie Toast.—Beat three eggs till ligiit, then mix them with a minced green chilli, the pulp of two tomatoes cut into dice, a spoonful of milk or cream, a pinch of salt, and loz. of butter; stir it all over the fire till quite hot, pour it on to hot buttered toast and serve at once. Croutes de Yolaille d la Diable,—Mince two parts of chicken to one of ham, and stir it over the fire with half an ounce or so of fresh butter, a little minced parsley, cayenne, and a pinch of curry10;} SAVOURIES. powder. When the curry is cooked and the mince as hot as it can be short of boiling-, pour it on to little fried croutons, and sei-ve moistened with a dessertspoonful of good gravy or rich brown sauce on each. (Ham, tongue, lobster, prawns, shrimps, etc., are all excellent thus.) Cassolettes o la Strashurcf.—Have ready some boat-shaped cases of cassolette pastry, garnish the edges by means of bag and pipe with a little edge of butter, dust this lightly with choj>ped lax or coralline pepper as you please, place a tiny column of pate de foie gras (cut with a plain column cutter) in the centre of each, and fill up the cassolettes with a mixture of chopped olives, tongue, French gherkin, apple, and the trimmings of the foie gras, all seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and serve garnished with Julienne strips of crisped celery, tossed in oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and sprinkled with minced tarragon and chervil. Cassolettes a la Cazanova.—Have ready some small boat-shaped or round cassolettes, and lay in each a cube of foie gras, or of any rich pfitc to taste, and mask this entix-ely with white mayonnaise (made with cream and lemon juice instead of oil and vinegar), into which you have pi-eviously stii-red Julienne strips of truffles and of hai-d-boiled egg white. Fonds cVArticTiauts au Foie Gins.—Drain well some small cooked, or canned, artichoke bottoms, and season lightly with oil, vinegar, minced tan-agon, chervil, salt, and pepper; place on each a round slice of foie gras, then cover with raw tomato cut into dice, shred ^and crisped celery, and some rolledSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 104 slices of cucumber similarly seasoned, and on the top of the pile set a stoned olive, farced with stiff mayonnaise. If preferred, a piece of lobster, or a mince of cold game, or a prawn, or an anchovy and some capers may be used instead of the foie gras, but in that case the name must be altered. Biscuits a la Diahle.—Mix well a tablespoonful of finely chopped ham, a dessertspoonful of minced capers, the same of minced anchovies, a full gill of rich espagnole sauce, a good spoonful of sheriy, and a tiny dash of cayenne. Stir it all over the fire till quite hot, have ready some hot devilled biscuits, pile the mixture on these, dusting them with coralline pepper and grated Parmesan cheese, and serve as hot as fire and pepper will make them. Olives a la St. Augustin.—Turn some olives, and with a bag and small pipe fill them with pate de foie gras previously sieved; stand each olive in a little houcJie mould (quarter of an inch deep), and fill the mould with just liquid aspic, garnishing each with a little chervil. When firm turn out and sot each on a square croute thickly spread with ham butter. This dish can be varied to taste; for instance, if the olives are stuffed with a fillet of anchovy, or a little anchovy butter, and placed, when set, on croutes piled with shrimp or prawn butter, they become Olives a la Normande. Or, the olives may be stuffed with rich mayonnaise or tartare sauce, and the croutons spread with lobster seasoned with oil and .vinegar, and mixed with just liquid aspic, the whole being spread on the croutes before it is actually set, and served as Oroides de Homard a la105 SAVOURIES. Mayonnaise, or a la Tartare. This may serve to «how how this dish may be varied. Cornets aux Olives.—Blanch and mince enough olives to till a dessertspoon, and stir this into a gill •of rich mayonnaise (made as in the recipe for Cassolettes a la Cazanova) ; now stir into this a gill of stiffly whipped aspic, and the same of stiffly- whipped cream, adding in some little cubes of foie gras. Have ready some crisp cold cornets made of •cornet paste, and till these with the above by means of a bag and rose jDipe, and place in the mouth of each cornet an olive stoned and farced with sieved foie gras. This is another savoury that may be varied almost indetinitely. For instance, use tomato mayonnaise, mix with the aspic and whipped -cream, and little pieces of lobster or prawns, and place a curled prawn with a tiny spray of tarragon in the mouth of each. Croutes a la Greville.—Stamp out rounds from some half-inch slices of Hovis bread, and pile them with minced game mixed with a little ham, some capers, and minced anchovies, then mask it all with brown chaufroix sauce just on the point of setting. Very often game is used for the half of the croutes, the other half being similarly piled with chicken, tongue, etc., and then masked with white or creamy ■chaufroix. A version of this is known as Croides ■a la Pompadour, the croutes being masked alter- nately witn creamy white chaufroix, tomato mayonnaise, and verte sauce, stiffened with a sheet or two of leaf gelatine. Croiltes d VImperiale.—Have ready some roundlOU SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. biscuit-crisp fried croutes, and pile on each a little hloater cream (made by mixing bloater paste with stiffly whipped cream), garnishing it with capers on the apex of the pile and a dust of coralline pepper,, serving it with a garnish of shred, crisped and seasoned celery. If preferred, rounds of Hovis. bread, buttered, may be used instead of the croutons, Croutes a la Berne.—Have ready some round croutons rather thickly spread with chopped olives,, tongue, shallot, and parsley (previously stirred over the fire till thick in a gill of rich espagnole or Perigord sauce), and place on each the hot hard- boiled yolk of an egg seasoned with oil, vinegaiv pepper and salt. Croutes a VAlbert—Have ready some square fried croutes, place on each a slice of tongue cut to match,, previously warmed between two buttered saucers,, and moistened with a little sherry, in the oven. Cover this all with buttered eggs, strew it thickly with grated tongue, and serve as hot as possible. CroiUes a VIndienne.—Spread some hot square- croutes with curry or devil butter, cover with buttered eggs, strew with minced capers, anchovy,, and chives, and serve very hot. Croiites a la Francaise.—Spread some square croutes with maitre d'hotel butter, or with panah,. sprinkle this with minced Gruyere cheese and anchovies, and place a little ball of caviar in the centre. Croutes de Caviar aux Anchois.—Beat up some of the dark green tinned caviar with a few drops of lemon juice, a cofEeespoonful of salad oil, and a dustSAVOURIES. 107 of coralline pepper, and -vvitli this spread rather thickly some biscuit-crisp crohtes, then decorate the top with a rose of anchovy cream, and serve. (It may be well to observe that anchovies go particu- larly well with caviar, as for that matter do prawns,, and that tiny sandwiches spread with anchovy butter are frec|uently served with plain caviar, to the great improvement of the latter.) Croutes a la Turque.—Have ready some maitre d’hofel or green butter, some anchovy or shrimp butter, and some egg or curry butter. Prepare some finger croutons, and pile on each three little heaps of the different butters, smoothing them into a neat j^yramidical shape with a hot knife, and lay a strip of hard-boiled egg white between each colour, to divide them. This can, of course, be varied to taste. For instance, cucumber puree, salmon puree, and aspic cream may be used with excellent effect, or any other variation to taste. Mmhroom Souffle.—Draw down very slowly a pint of good mushrooms with a little salt for ten minutes, then strain off' the liquor. Pound and sieve the mushrooms. Cook together till smooth and perfectly blended, loz. each of butter and flour, then moisten it with a gill of good stock and the mushroom liquor ; now add the pounded mushrooms and the yolks of two eggs ; when it is all blended stir in at the last, cpiickly and lightly, the stiffly whipped whites of four eggs, pour it into a well-buttered mould, steam it for thirty-five to forty minutes, according to the size of the mould, and turn it out cfiT’efully, masking it with a delicately made cheeseSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 108 cream, and serve at once. Another way of serving this is to steam it for twenty-five minutes in a well- buttered border mould, then turn it out and serve with either a ragout d la Toulouse, or a, financiere ragout, or a very rich oyster sauce in the centre, as you please. Marrowbones, to Cook.-—Get the butcher to saw the bones into convenient sizes, and carefully cover up the ends with a stiff strong paste of flour and water, tieiiig over this clean pieces of floured cloth. Put the bones upright in a pan of boiling water, being careful to have them thoroughly covered with the water. Bring it to the boil again, then simmer .steadily for one and a half to two hours, according to their size. Now remove the paste and the cloths quickly, twist a d’oyley round each, set them upright on a hot dish, and serve at once, sending up a rack of dried toast with them. Few cooks seem to know that these bones may be boiled for one and a half hours, lifted out, and set in a cool place till wanted, when half an hour more of boiling will send them to table in capital condition. This is often a great oonvenience to the cook. Macaroni Pies.—Boil some good macaroni till three parts cooked, then cut it into small pieces and mix it in a bowl with sliced sausage, minced hard- boiled egg, wiped and cut up mushrooms, some dice of ham, tiny delicate quenelles, and cooked cocks- combs, with sliced truffles if at hand ; moisten this with equal parts of strong meat gravy and tomato sauce, and season with freshly gi'ound black pepper and grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready someSAVOUEIES. 109* pastrv-lined pattv pans, and put one or more spoon- fuls of the mixture on each; roll out some short paste, stamp it out in rounds a trifle larger than the' pans, and place a round on each, rolling up the' edges of the top and bottom crust in a hind of twist to keep in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven just long enough to bake the crust. Equally good hot or cold. If quenelles and cockscombs are a trouble^ invest in a tin of “ quenelles ” as sold by Messrs.. Cosenza (Wigmore Street), and use instead. Properly speaking, these pies should not be made in tins, the mixture being simply piled on a round of paste, covered with another, the edges of which arc rolled up and finished as before. These are known then as tourtes a la russe. Gnocchi alia Homana.—For this prepare a pomdge with semolina, by sifting a handful of semolina through the fingers of one hand into a pan of boiling salted water which you keep stirred with the other hand; continue this stirring well after the semolina is mixed in, so as to ensure the thorough cooking of the latter, then when sufficiently stiff turn it out and leave till perfectly cold. Now lift it up in spoonfuls and arrange these symmetric- ally in a well-buttered pie-dish, libei’ally sprinkling each layer with grated Parmesan cheese, tiny morsels of butter, and freshly and coarsely ground black pepper; bake till of a pretty golden colour. Another way of preparing these is- to dissolve a small pat of the butter in the salted water used for the porridge, and make the latter with two parts; semolina to one of grated Parmesan,, making itSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 110 pretty thick. When cold this is used as before, but cover each layer with either tomato puree, good sauce, or strong beef gravy, as you please, instead of cheese, etc. Or again, the porridge can be prepared as in the first recipe, then season the layers with grated cheese, minced parsley, coralline pepj)er, and thick cream, and bake as before. A less delicate, but quite as nutritious, dish can be prepared with Indian cornmeal in exactly the same way, and is the famous polenta of Southern Italy, served in so many ways. The above will give some idea of the enormous variety of savouries which an inteJligent and willing cook can evolve (all of which, I may observe, have been prepared by, nominally, the plainest of plain cooks, who had no idea of the society names of the dishes she sent up, or she would have struck at once!) ; but naturally, in a book of this size, it is impossible to do more than give samples, for one might fill several books with nothing but savouries, and yet leave a large aftermath for subsequent collectors.CHAPTEE VI. OAENISHES, &c. With the growth of culinary taste in the country, there has arisen a desire for dishes as tempting to the eyes as they are to the palate, and in conse- quence cooks have turned their attention vigorously towards the subject of garnishes and decoration generally, and it must be added that their zeal has not always been guided by discretion. Now, few things lend themselves more to decoration than the fancy dishes that are known generally as hors (Tcetivre, savouries, and entremets. In fact, a great part of theii’ value is decorative. At the same time in no case should the modesty of nature be over- stepped. Grotesque, eccentric, or even too realistic shapes are not commendable save in exceptional circumstances, whilst any decoration that suggests overmuch handling of any kind, is, to say the least of it, unpleasant. Dainty simplicity is the keynote of success in these matters, and, above all, remember it is not sufficient for a dish to “ look nice ” (how- ever perfectly it may fulfil that requirement), it inust also “ taste nice.” Pieces montees, as they are112 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. called by chefs, are all very well for state banquets,, the shelves of a cookery exhibition, or similar places,, but for ordinary households, however dainty, they are out of place. In such establishments two cardinal rules should be strictly adhered to : 1. To make every part of the dish, decorative or otherwise,, fit (and looking fit, moreover) to eat. 2, Reduce all colouring, save what maybe obtained by natural means (and the range of colour obtained by the artistic use of edibles, is a large one), to its very smallest dimensions; in fact, wherever possible^ eliminate the use of artificial colouring altogether. The first thing generally required for decorative purposes is a foundation, or stand, on which to show off the “ pretty little tiny kickshaws ” which usually make up the list of such things as are treated of in this collection. Small objects, sweet oi’ savoury, are always improved by being raised above the surface of the dish on which they are served, a fact well realised by all foreign cooks, who utilise all sorts of borders, stands, socles, &c.y for this purpose. Of these stands there are various kinds ; croutons, aspic borders, rice borders, or the white-fat socles. Croutons may be prepared in two ways. The first is to cut the cylinder, or plain stand, in very stale bread, masking this thickly and smoothly with any coloured chaufroix, or cream to taste, according to what it is to be used for, only remembering that as this is simply for decorative use, any expensive adjuncts, such as wine, etc., are unnecessary. The sauce should be good, well coloured and flavoured^113 GARNISHES, &c. so that the things arranged on it mav not contract any foreign flavour, but there the matter ends. Where a pure white is desired, prepare a good white sauce thus: Mix loz. of sifted flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, then, when this is perfectly blended, pour in very gradually a pint of absolutely boiling water or skim milk, bring it well to the boil, dissolve in it three-quarters to loz. of gelatine, and let it all simmer together till the gelatine is entirely dissolved and the whole is smooth; use this to mask the crouton, just as it is cooled and all but setting. A good brown chaufroix for this purpose is made by stirring 2oz. of flour over the fire with ^oz, of butter till it has turned a rich, but not too deep, brown. (If you need a very deep colour, add a drop or two of caramel, or a little brown colouring till you get the right tint.) Finish off with either water or colouring liquid, as if it were melted butter, dissolving in it |oz. to loz. of gelatine to the pint of sauce. For Caramel, melt 2oz. of pounded loaf sugar in a small iron saucepan, stirring it with an iron spoon until it turns a rich dark brown; then add half a pint of hot water, and let it boil up till the water is thoroughly coloured, when you lift off the pan, let it cool, and bottle it. The difficulty about this is that it is very apt to bum, when it becomes acrid and unpleasant, whilst if not sufficiently cooked, it gives a sickly sweetness to everything to which it is added. This is often used by cooks to “bring up the colour” (as they call it) of badly made soups, and in such cases I114 SALADS. SANDWICHES, &c. is to be avoided, but it comes in very usefully iu the present instance. Another very good colouring (which would answer admirably for the brown sauce given above) is made by toasting a slice of bread till it is as dark a brown as you can get it without actually letting it burn. It is then put into either cold or hot water, and allowed to steep until the, water is sufficiently coloured. This browning is also often used to colour soups, either of meat, fish, or vegetable stock. Of course, these sauces are simply for decorative purposes; where the croutons are small, and, though used for garnish, are actually to be eaten, the best sauces must, of course be used. Anyway, whatever sauce you use, do not colour them artificially. Next to croutons comes jelly. Now, of this there are two kinds—meat jelly and aspic jelly. This latter has been so fully dealt with in No. IV. of the “ Queen ” Cookery Books (on “ Entrees ”) that no more need be said here. But remember, that though the ordinary aspic, made without stock, will answer admirably for socles or stands, if it is to be eaten care must be bestowed on its flavour as well as on its clearness. Again, aspic, by reason , of its necessary acidity, is not always suitable, and in many cases dishes are actually spoilt by this tart- ness. In this case it is better to prepare the jelly thus : Put into a pan a quart of any bght stock to taste, according to the colour you wish your jelly to be {Consomme Maggi dissolved in water according to its accompanying directions makes a most praise- worthy foundation for savoury jeHy), a good bunch.GARNISHES. &c. 115 of herbs, a small spoonful of salt, eighteen to twenty peppercorns and allspice mixed, a bay-leaf, a leek or a couple of young green onions, the strained juice of a lemon, and 2|oz. of best leaf gelatine; now stir in the broken-uji shells and whites of two eggs, bring it all very gently to the boil, whisking it a little at first to blend the ingredients, and as soon as it boils run it through a jelly bag or a clean napkin. If not quite clear run it through a second time. Be careful not to have the stock or water used in jelly making more than warm at first, or it will ourdle and set the egg whites at once and they will not clear the jelly in the least. If chopped jelly be needed for decoration, sprinkle a sheet of paper well with cold water, lay the jelly on this, and chop it with a well wetted knife as fine as possible. Next in importance to aspic comes Mayonnaise. Of this there are several forms. Ordinary mayonnaise is made thus: Put into a basin one raw ■egg yolk, an eggspoonf ul of mustard (or equal parts -of French and English mustard),, a pinch of salt, and the same of white pepper; mix this well together with n delicately clean and scalded wooden spoon (where mayonnaise is much used a special spoon should be kept for it), adding drop by drop enough good salad oil to bring it all to the consistency of butter; now add a teaspoonful or so of best vinegar, either plain or flavoured, being careful to keep the sauce pretty stiff- These quantities will produce half a pint of sauce. If it has to stand, it is advisable to add a tablespoonful of absolutely boiling water just at the last. This mayonnaise is of a rich egg 2SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 116 yellow, but for some purposes a 'white mayownaise may be needed, in which case use the white of the egg instead of the yolk, cream instead of oil,, and strained lemon juice instead of vinegar. ~Red- mayo'nnaise may be prepared in two ways: To some good rich mayonnaise add enough pounded and sieved lobster coral to bring it all to a rich red tint, adding a little coralline pepper and some more mustard. (This sauce should be made in the boat it is to be served in, and must be kept as cool as possible.) Or, rub four large ripe and well- coloured tomatoes through a fine sieve, and incor- porate this pur^e with an equal amount of rich mayonnaise and a spoonful (the size of this depends on taste)^ of tarragon vinegar. If fresh tomatoes cannot be had, use the French Gonse't’ve de tomates, or the American canned tomato pulp, but in this case you may need a drop or two of liquid carmine to bring up the colour. Green mayonnaise is produced thus : Blanch a few spravs of chervil, parsley, and tarragon, then drain well and pound; incorporate this puree with half a pint of mayonnaise, to which you have added a few drops of spinach or other vegetable green colour- ing, and use. Mayonnaise aspic, a very useful garnish, is made by mixing a gill of any of the above forms of mayonnaise with half a pint of just liquid aspic, and using it as it is on the point of setting. For instance, a delicious salad may be made from the remains of a cold roast duck in this way. Prepare a pint of mayonnaise aspic, cut the remains of the duck into neat fillets and117 GARNISHES, &c. small joints, and mask each of these with aspic made with plam mayonnaise, to which you have stirred about a tablespoonful of minced olives, a little lemon juice, a dash of coralline pepper, and, lastly, one-third of a pint of stiffly whij>ped cream. Cover a dish with a layer of well washed and dried lettuce, arrange the duck, when the mayonnaise is set, neatly on this in a pile, then garnish it round with quartered young cabbage lettuces, young radishes, quartered hard-boiled eggs, and some stoned olives farced with washed and boned fillets of unchovy, and serve. Sauce Mousseline is another form of mayonnaise very useful for souffles glaces. To make it whip a gill of a.spic to a stiff froth, then mix into it a gill of rich mayonnaise (any of the above will do) and a gill of stiffly whipped cream, season with coralline pepper, a pinch of caster sugar, and a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Lastly, there is Mousquetaire sauce, a delicious addition to either dressed crab or lobster. Mince together finely a small handful of chervil and tarragon, a few chives, a shallot or two, and two spoonfuls of mustard; stir it all well together, working in gradually a little salt and pepper, then three tablespoonfuls of best salad oil, and a dessertspoonful of good vinegar, till it is all well blended. Chaufroix Sauces have been so fully treated in Series IV. of the “Queen” Cookery Books (on “Entrees”) that only a passing allusion can find place here. These are easily made by adding half an ounce of best leaf gelatine to each pint of anySALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 118 freshly made white or brown sauce, &c., allowing it to boil rapidly till reduced a fourth part, and using it when on the point of setting. For white sauces, a gill of thick cream should be stirred into the sauce just at the last to improve the colour. To brown stock, add loz. of dissolved glaze to the pint of sauce in the same way. Any sauce can be stiffened in this way, and if it is desired to secure a very glazed appearance, bnish the objects masked with this chaufroix, when the latter is set, with a little just liquid meat jelly. This will be found a great improvement on the ordinary plan of using common aspic jelly, the acidity of which only suits dishes for which salad or mayonnaise dressings are to be used. Olives. — These are rather important factors, amongst savoury garnishes, whether served plain or farced. The latter can, if required, be bought ready prepared, in bottles, but it is little or na trouble—once the knack is gained—to prepare them at home. Choose large and fresh olives, and, if necessary, slice off just enough from the stalk end of each to make them stand firmly, then with a small cook’s knife, or a penknife, proceed to peel them from the stone exactly as if you were peeling an apple, only keeping the blade close along by the stone so as to take off all the flesh, leaving the stone as bare as possible, in a continuous spiral {see ilhistration), which will go back into its natural shape if pressed lightly together. This is called “ turning ” olives. Vinegar.—This is a point that demands more attention than it usually receives from British salad-1L9 GARNISHES, Ac. makers, to whom vinegar is vinegar, and the delicate ditf erences, the nuances as they would .term them, of foreign cooks are absolutely unknown. For instance, for young spring salad a French woman will use a vinaigre printanier, made by infusing in half a pint of French red wine vinegar (or, indeed, in the same amount of vin ordinaire) a tablespoonful of young cress (minced), the same of young tarragon shoots, two or three young green onions, a dozen pepper- corns, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon, till well Olive Peeled for Farcing. flavoured. A winter version of this may be pro- duced by infusing in half a pint of the same sort of vinegar th'=' bruised seeds of mustard and cressy celery, and parsley (using about a teaspoonful of each), with a clove of garlic and two capsicums. A little tarragon vinegar may be added to this if you choose, and, of course, the proportions of the different seeds can be varied to suit individual tastes. Remember when using capsicums that the seeds and the pulp should always be omitted unlessSALADS, SANDWICHES, SiC. 120 you are catering for j>ersons of utterly Mephisto- phelian tastes. Also, it may be as well to obseiwe that the above vinegars should be kept closely stoppered, a few drops, or at most a teaspoonful, of them being used for each salad to give piquancy to the dressing. Anchovy vinegar again, made by steeping six or seven good Gorgona anchovies, a clove of garlic, and a few peppercorns in a pint of the best white wine vinegar for a fortnight, is a great addition to some forms of mayonnaise, and also for many savouries. The same may be said of Gurry vinegar. Cucumber vinegar, and its imitations, hurnet and syringa vinegar, are also much to be commended, but as full directions for these and many other vinegars have already been given in No. III. of the “ Queen ” Cookery Books (on “ Pickles and Preserves ”), they need not be repeated here. Lastly, there are two forms of vinegar, one English, and one American, that come in very handy for all sorts of purposes. The first is Camp vinegar, made by adding half a gill of walnut ketchup, two tablespoonfuls of soy, six finely minced anchovies, a small and finely minced clove of garlic, and a drachm of cayenne to a pint of the best white wine vinegar; this is then corked down and allowed to- stand for a month, shaking it daily. It is then strained off through muslin, bottled off into small and very tightly corked and waxed bottles. McCarthy’s vinegar is said to be the invention of a New York hotel-keeper, from whom it takes its name. For this, put two tablespoonfuls of Worcester sauce into a pint bottle with half a tablespoonful ofGARNISHES, &c. 121 Tabasco, fill up the bottle with fresh tarragon vinegar, and cork tightly. This, like anchovy vinegar, is excellent, not only for salads, but for savouries, and especially for broiled fish, steak, &c. Of Mustards, again, there are a great variety, and a pleasant change may be made by mixing the mustard smoothly with any spiced or flavoured vinegar to taste; or again, boil about half a tea- spoonful each of salt, freshly ground black pepper, mace, cloves, and a dash of cayenne, with a small ■clove of garlic, in half a pint of good vinegar till this is strongly flavoured ; mix 4oz. or 5oz. of mustard to a stiff paste with some cold tarragon vinegar, then strain into it gradually the boiling-hot spiced vinegar, stirring it as you do so with a small red-hot poker, or kitchen skewer. This mustard, if stored in wide-mouthed bottles, and tightly corked, will keep for years. Salt also needs attention. Perhaps the nicest in many ways is the well-known Cerebos salt, as it never cakes, but a very nice salt for home con- simiption can be produced by sifting together a teaspoonful of best cornflour, or of creme de riz, and a teacupful of finely powdered salt. This must be kept in a dry sjjot. Croutes and Croutons.—Of these there are various kinds. The large kind used as a socle, or support, has already been described, but the small croutes or croutons used for garnish or savouries should be prepared thus : Slice down some stale bread about one-third to half an inch thick, remove all crust, and cut or stamp out these slices into triangles, hearts.SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 122 rounds, squares, &c., as you j^lease, and fry them in butter till of a delicate golden brown, evenly but not over, coloured. Drain them well in front of the fire, or in the mouth of the oven, till quite dry and biscuit-crisp. Then use hot or cold. Croiitons- frequently suffer from being cut too thick, in which case the centre remains moist and pappy after the surface is coloured and crisp ; this does not matter so much if they are to be eaten at once, hot, but if they have to stand they become soft and greasy, and most unpleasant. Always be sure that these’ croutons are thoroughly drained, and so freed from grease that they will leave no mark on blotting- paper. For household purposes, well clarified dripping or marrow fat answers very well for frying these, but chefs always advise clarified butter. Another way of preparing them is, after shaping them, to dip them in good stock till saturated, but not pappy, and then lay them in a buttered baking^ tin in the oven till crisp and nicely coloured. These are, of course, more savoury than if plainly fried. A third plan is this: From slices a half to one inch thick stamp or cut out rounds or squares one and a half to two inches in diameter, then with a smaller cutter, or a knife, mark out an inner circle, or square, from a quarter to half an inch inside the- outer ring, pressing the cutter well down into the bread to within a quarter of an inch of the under side of the bread; fry these carefully till of a pale gold, then with the point of a small sharp knife lift out the inner ring, remove all moist crumb, and finish off as with other croutes, to get these quite-GARNISHES, Ac. 12^ biscuit-crisp. These hollow croiites are sometimes called croiUes creuses, but more often croustades, or caisses. Biscuits, Devilled.—These are done in various ways. For instance, butter well either milk or plain water biscuits, dust them generously with salt,, freshly ground black and cayenne pepper, and set them in the oven till hot and crisp. Or, melt some- butter and lay into it as many water biscuits^ or Bath Olivers, as you please, turning them over and over in the butter till they brown; then lift them out, dust plentifully with cayenne and curry powder,, and serve with any remains of butter j)oured over them. Or, rub up about a teaspoonful of mustard flour with a little salad oil to a smooth paste, then work in a tablespoonful of McCarthy’^s vinegar, adding cayenne to taste, and a little salt if needed. Spread the biscuits thickly with this paste, and grill or toast them till as hot as fire will make them. Pastry.—For cassolettes, cornets, canots, &c., make a paste with 4oz. of fine flour, 14oz. of fresh buttery half an egg, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a pinch of salt, and just enough water to bring it all to a smooth stiff paste. Anchovy.—Rub foz. of butter into 3oz. of fine flour, season with half a teaspoonful of Burgess’s essence of anchovy, half an egg, a dust of cayenne, and a drop or two of carmine (to get the paste a pale pink), mix it all to a smooth, stiff paste, roll it out fairly thin, stamp it out in rounds or squares, j>ut these on a baking tin, prick them well with a fork, and bake fifteen to twenty minutes in a124 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. moderate oven till crisp and dry, but mind they do not discolour. If to be used for cornets, use one whole egg instead of the half, and less water. Cheese, for Cornets.—Rub up together 4oz. -of fine flour, 2oz. of butter, a little salt and coralline pepper ; when thoroughly mixed, work in one whole ■egg, joz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and just enough milk to get it to a smooth stiff paste. Roll it out thinly, prick it with a fork, or a pricker, stamp it out in rounds (or in squares if to use with Pompadour moulds), three to four inches across .and one-eighth of an inch thick, and use them to line some well-buttered cornet moulds, slipping another buttered mould into the first one as soon .as it is lined (to keep the paste in place), and bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes till crisp, then slip them off the tins, and use when cold. Batter Dariols.—Have ready some clean boiling fat, and plunge the dariol fryer with thi*ee moulds into this till it is quite hot; then mask the sides and bottoms quickly with frying batter, carefully trimming off the superfluous batter round the top •edge with your finger or a knife, and fry at once in the boiling fat till of a nice golden colour; then lift off the cases (when done they should slip off •quite easily), return them at once to the fat for a minute to crisp the insides, and, after draining them well, either fill them with whatever ragout, &c., you wish to use, or else store them in an air-tight box till wanted, as they will keep well for two or three •days, and are convenient to have ready. If byGARNISHES, &c. 125. any chance the dariols should bi*eak in the frying,, lift them up at once, mask with a little more batter over the crack, smoothing it on lightly, return it to the fat, and cook as before till crisp.. Frying Batter for Dariols.—Put into a bowl 4oz. of fine sifted flour, two whole raw eggs, and one- and a half tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and mix it all to a smooth, rather thick paste, working in' rather over a gill of cold water, then use to coat the hot fryer pretty thinly. These batter dariols require knack, but are well worth the trouble of acquiring it. Remember, that for dariol batter, the batter is made with whole unbeaten eggs, and' is used at once, differing in this from ordinarv fritter batter, which is always better for standing, and to which the whites of the eggs whisked to ai stiff froth are added just as it is to be used. Parsley.—Oi all decorations parsley is one of the- commonest, and, it may be added, one of the most carelessly prepared. To mince parsley, well wash it,, pick it free from the stalks, and put it into a pan with some cold salted water, and when this just comes to the boil, strain it off and dry the parsley by wringing it firmly but gently in a clean cloth; now gather it well together with the fingers, and shred it ac.oss and across, mincing it as finely as- possible (it cannot be too finely minced), then gather it up in the corner of a clean cloth and hold it under the tap, or in a basin, wringing and pressing it till the water running from it turns- green; it must now be wrung dry again, and will then be a bright green dust. Wet parsley will never-126 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. •chop properly, and nothing betrays an inferior cook more than unblanched and coarsely chopped parsley. By the way, very few cooks appear to know that for flavouring purposes (only) the stalks are quite as good, if not better than the leaves, which are wanted for garnish. To Fry Parsley, well wash it, picking it over, removing all but the smallest stalks, and choosing the finest and greenest leaves. Dry the leaves g'Giitly in a clean cloth; when you have done frying the dish the parsley is to garnish, draw the fat boiler off the fire to let it cool for three or four minutes, leaving the basket in the hot fat; now drojD the parsley into this, and re-heat gently, till the leaves are crisp, which they will be in about a minute, then lift out, drain well, and use. Be careful when dropping the parsley into the fat to turn your head aside, for the cold leaves often cause the hot fat to spurt up, and this might burn you badly. Socles.—Mention has already been made of jelly borders and bread erofitons, but beside these there :are rice borders and white-fat socles, or stands, which, though not of general use, yet, on occasions, are a great addition to the appearance of a supper or ceremonial breakfast table, and are sufficiently easy to prepare to render them available for home use. For the rice border, boil, say, lib. of rice in plenty of water (half a gallon for 11b. of rice is none too much) till it is perfectly soft, then drain it well, and pound it to a smooth paste in a mortar. When well amalgamated, turn it ^out on to the pastry slab, and knead it withGARNISHES, &c. 127 jour liaucls, or Avork it with a wooden spoon till it is a smooth, elastic, and workable paste; then either shape it as it stands with a couple of wooden spoons into a round or oval block, trimming- this neatlj with a sharp knife ; or press the rice into any mould to taste, and leave it till firm and hard. The moulds should be kept in a cold place to stiffen properly. When required for use, turn them out, and cover lightly with either plain or fancy butter. M. Gouffe, Avho advises rice borders especially, recommends ■either a maitre d’hotel or a ravigotte butter, but, of course, this is a matter of taste. These socles are particularly useful for sandwiches, salades mignonnes, ■&C., and are also in great request for the improvement of cold entrees, which never look so well if served flat •on their dish. For lohite-fat socles you require a wooden mould on which to mount them. The plainer these are, the better is the taste of the socle. So get two round, or oval, blocks of smooth wood, one at least a third smaller than the other. To prepare the fat for covering, cut up l^lb. of kidney fat (mutton for choice), remove every bit of skin or sinew, place it in a bowlful of cold water, and let it stand till next day. Now drain off the water, and put the fat into a delicately clean pan (a fireproof casserole is as nice as anything), and render it down very gently over a slow fire; when melted, let it stand for a minute or two, ■then strain it through a hair sieve into a basin ; after it has cooled a little, work into it l|lb. of best white lard, then melt it all once more, and strain it off into a basin to cook It must now be whipped with a very clean wire whisk till it is light and almostSALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 128 creamy, and in this state it is used to cover the moulda. First put a little of the fat on a baking sheet, and stand the wooden mould on this to keep it firm, then apply the fat thickly and evenly, smoothing it with a palette knife dipped in hot water, and finishing it off with a flat or round ruler (the latter for choice), dipped in hot water, to get the surface perfectly level and smooth. This block, if left to harden in a cold plac-e, will have all the appearance and hardness of marble. To remove it from the baking sheet, stand the latter over a pan of boiling water just to soften the fat under the socle, which may then be lifted off. If the second mould is placed on the first, cover it in exactly the same way, affixing it to the under socle, as you fastened the latter to the baking sheet, with a little semi-melted fat. Of course, these wooden blocks can be cut into any shape you please, and the fat covering may be chiselled and modelled into all sorts of shapes, but for ordinary purposes the above are infinitely the best; the advantage of these stands is that, once made, they last a good long time if stored in a cold, dry place, in tins, and only need a rub over with a moist cloth to keep them in condition. Some cooks, however, prefer a mixture of lloz. of best white lard and 7oz. white wax, as being more* durable than the previously given mixture.INDEX. Anchovy cream, 53 Aspic mayonnaise, 116 „ (white), 14, 116 mint jelly, 15 Batter dariols, 124 for ditto, 125 Butters, 20 anchovy, 21 brandy, 25 cayenne, 20 coralline, 20-21 curry, 20-21 devil, 22-23 green, 22 ham, 23 horseradish or crime raifort, 21 lobster, prawn, or shrimp, 21 maitre d’hotel, 22 printanier, 22 ravigotte, 22 red (beurre rouge), 35, 36 sandwich, 20 sardine, 22 watercress, 23 Caramel, 113 Crohtes, 121-123 creuses, 123 Garnishes, 111 KINDEX, 130 Hors d’CEuvre, 41-47 Anchois a I’inip (or imperiale), 48 Caviar a la mignonne, 47 „ crodtes au, 48 Croutes a la Burlington, 49 Cucumber, 44 Figs, 44 Herrings pickled, to prepare, 43 Huitres nature, 47 „ au caviar, 47 Individual, 44, Melon, 44 Sardines, &c., to prepare for, 43-44 Tartelettes a la Madame, 48 Jelly, 114 Mayonnaise, 115 Aspic, 116 „ (white), 114-116 Collie, 34 Cooked,4 de crabe, 13 de saumon, 12 de soles a 1’Agnes, 10 „ CMestine, 10 „ Cherbourgeoise, 9 Fish, 6 Green, 116 Red, 116 Tomato, 11 White, 11 Mustard, 121 Olives, to turn, 118 Pains fourres, 26 „ k la Mirabeau, 36 Parsley, to fry, 126 „ to mince, 125 Pastry, anchovy, 45, 123 Bombay duck, 45INDEX. 131 Pastry, Cassolettes, cornets, and canots, 123 Cheese, 45, 124 Curry, 45 Salads, 1 a PItalienne, 6 a la Paysanne, 16 ^ la Eusse, 5 American, 7 Beef a la Chateau, 16 „ en vinaigrette, 2 Chicken, anx tomates, 13 „ and salsify, 7 Crab (mock), 7-8 d’Anchois, 46 Fancy, 11 Flamande, 17 Lamb a la Printaniere, 15 Lobster in aspic, 6 „ for picnics, 8 Mignonne, 2 Mixing, 3 Oyster, 11 Scallop, 7 Suedoise, 17 Watercress and apple, 17 Sandwiches, 19-24 Aberdeen, 27 Ji, la Gladstone, 39 la Musset, 38 Alexandra, 28 Anchovy and egg, 29 „ „ lax, 29 Beef, 29 „ a la Wellington, 30 „ steak, 26 Bigarade, 39 Bloater il I’lmperiale, 30 Butter, 20132 INDEX. Sandwiches {continued)— Caviar, 30 Celery and walnut, 31 Cheese, 31 ,, curried, 31 „ Gruyfere, 31 Cod’s roe, 31 Crab (mock), 32 Cucumber and tomato, 32 Egg, 32 ,, cream, 33 „ „ and herring, 33 „ and chutney, 33 Fancy, 26-27 Fish, 33-34 Foie gras, 34 George, 35 Greville, 35 Hors d’ceuvre, 46 Lobster, 35-36 Milan, 39 Mirabeau, 36 New York, 36 Northern, 37 Olive, 37 Pickle, 37 Pompadour, 37 Princess, 38 Prince George’s, 37 Prince of Wales’s, 38 Sardine, 38 Savoury, 39 Shooting, 25, 39 Spanish, 39 Sweet, 28 Salt to keep in condition, 121 Sauces, Cazanova, 69 Chaufroix, 14, 117INDEX. 133 Sauces for soles, 113 Horseradish cream, 21, 102 ' Madfere, 101 Mousquetaire, 117 Mousseline, 117 Savouries, 50-51, 83-86 Anchois k la Bedford, 56 „ „ crime Pomel, 58 „ „ Dauphin, 56 „ a I’Ecossaise (Scotch woodcock), 58 ,, a rindienne (Panah), 58 ,, a la Madras, 56 5) n 55 >5 59 95 59 59 95 55 59 59 55 55 59 95 55 „ „ aux olives, 56 ,, Moderns, 57 ,, Eusse (Cans), 58 au Caviar, 58 en Mayonnaise, 57 i en Surprise, 60 Aigrettes d’, 55 Allumettes, 56 Biscuits d’, a la diable, 54 ,, „ Royale, 53 Canapes d’, 51 ,, a la Colmar, 53 „ a I’Indienne, 52 „ a la diable, 52 ,, aux oeufs, 53 crohtes a la Battenberg, 59 „ aux olives, 52 Diablotins d’ (devils on horseback), 54 iclairs d’, 59 Orlys d’, 52 Pailles, d’, 54 I „ a la diable, 54 „ d I’Ecossaise, 54 „ d la Yarmouth, 54 Rissoles d’, 55 „ d la^Gruydre, 55134 INDEX. Savouries (continued)— Anchois, Talmouses d’, 54 Cheese aigrettes, 92 „ d la Hollandaise, 97 „ d ritalienne, 97 „ balls, 91 ,, biscuits, devilled, 94 „ creams, 93, 98 „ crab, 95 „ croutes, 85 ,, d’Artois, 92 „ fritters, 90 ,, macaroni, 88 ,, moulded, 93 „ mousse, 92 „ patties, 90 ,, pounded, 89 „ pudding, 97 rarebit, American, 98 „ Irish, 87 „ Welsh, 87 sandwiches, baked, 89 „ savoury, 96 „ souffle, 91 „ „ d la diable, 91 „ „ au paprika, 91 „ straws, 90 „ toasted, 86, 87 Crab croustades, 81 „ in the shell, 81 „ dressed, 82 „ souffle, iced, 82 Laitances (see also roes), 70-71 a la diable, 71 „ Madras, 73 „ Sefton, 72 au’gratin, 71 aux cdpes, 74 99 99 99 99INDEX. 135 Savouries {continued)— Laitances aux huitres, 73 „ en kromeskis, 74 „ en papillottes, 71 „ gratinees, 71 Lobster a la due d’York, 80 „ „ remoulade, 79 „ „ tartare, 77 ,, cornets a la creme, 78 „ „ „ mayonnaise, 105 ,, curried, iced, 79 ,, darioles in aspic, 77 ,, devilled and iced, 80 „ in the shell, 80 „ souffle, iced, 78 Oysters a la Cazanova, 69 „ a cheval (angels on horseback), 65 „ blancmange, 67 „ devilled, 65 ,, fritters, 65, 69 „ profiteroles, au caviar, 66 „ rissolettes, f!6 „ roulades, 66 „ scalloped, 67, 68 „ „ with tomatoes, 68 „ toast, 68 Roes, bloater, on toast, 72 „ devilled, and mackerel bones, 72 „ herring, 71 „ savoury cod’s, 70 Sardines, 43, 44 ,, k la maitre d’hdtel, 60 „ „ Napolitaine, 65 „ ,, Soubise, 64 „ aux olives, 61 „ bouchees de, 63 „ au caviar, 63 „ crofites de, k la cr6me, 64136 INDEX. 99 99 Savouries (continued)— Sardines, curried, 61 „ devilled, 61 „ eggs, 62 a la Benedictine, 62 a la Gasconne, 62 ^ la Normande, 62 an jambon, 62 en papilottes, 63 en tartines, 63 omelet, 62 toast, 64 Ballettes de merluche, 75 „ d’or, 88 Beignets de merluche, 77 Biscuits, devilled, 104, 123 Bloater, grilled, 83 „ toast, 84 Bouoh^es k la Simla, 86 Canapes au Parmesan, 97 „ de tomates au Parmesan, 95 Cassolettes Cazanova, 103 „ a la Strasburg, 103 Choufleur gratine, 88 Cornets aux olives, 105 Maximilien, 96 Milanaise, 95, „ Portugaise, 94 CroAtes, 99, 112 „ a 1’Albert, 106 ,, ^ la Berne, 106 „ ,, Clarice, 101 „ Florence, 75 i ,, Fran9aise, 106 ,, Gloucester, 95 „ Greville, 105 a I’lmp^riale, 105 k I’Indienne, 106 >9 9> 99 99 9fINDEX. Savouries (continued)— Crotites (de jambon) k rindierme, 102 „ a la Jubile, 76 „ „ Marjorie, 76 „ „ Pompadour. 105 „ „ Eusse, 102 „ „ Turque, 107 „ au caviar, 106 „ de volaille ^ la diable, 73, 102; Diablotins ^ la Gruyere, 86 Fish, &c., potted, 83 Foie de volaille a la diable, 73 „ gras Cazanova, 70 Fonds d’artiobauts au foie gras, 103- Golden buck, 85, 87 Gnocchi alia Romana, 109 Haddock soufi34, 77 Kisch au parmeaan, 98 Marrow bones, 108 „ a la maitre d’hotel, 101 „ au Mad^re, 101 Macaroni pies, 108 Mushroom souffle, 107 (Eufs au fromage, 90 Olives k la St. Augustin, 104 „ „ Normande, 104 Petites caisses k la St. James, 73- Petits pains a la Mirabeau, 36 Toast, Bombay, 100 „ Bloater, 83 Craigie, 102 „ Curry, 100 „ Devonshire, 99 „ German, 100 „ Haddock, 74, 75 ,, Ham or kidney, 99 „ Marrow, 100 „ Shrimp, 84 L138 INDEX. Savouries (continiLed)— Tomato cups, 12 „ Mayonnaise, 11 Rice borders, 126-127 Vinegar, ll8 Anchovy, 120 Camp, 120 McCarthy, 120 Printanier, 119 White-fat socles, 127 Zakuska, 42vv Absolutely Pure, therefore BcSt. TAKE GA^E when dnnkigg Cocoa to have the pure article onty. as many so-called “ Pure ’’ Cocoas contain added matter that is not only unnecessary, but sometimes positively harmful COCOA IS ABSOIUUIY rURt. and untam{)cred with, and can be taken with the greatest benfit in Chiidiiood. in Vouth. or in Old Age. " Without exception the most popular Cocoa of the day; we are^lad to give it the highest praise. For Nourishment there IS nothing sapenor .to found" Maoaiine '- ‘‘f, Cadbury's Cccoa is a perfect Food.